When a tumor is diagnosed as a lipoma (fatty tumor), it is a great relief, because these are not malignant. About 10% of all dog skin tumors are lipomas. Lipomas rarely occur in cats. Veterinarians diagnose lipomas by feel (palpation), needle biopsy, and surgical biopsy or surgical excision.
lipoma. a benign fatty tumor usually composed of mature fat cells. They have a special importance in horses, in which the pedunculated tumors in the abdominal cavity uncommonly twist themselves around a loop of small intestine, sometimes just below the pylorus or around the rectum.
A lipoma is a benign tumor composed of adipose tissue (body fat). It is the most common benign form of soft tissue tumor. Lipomas are soft to the touch, usually movable, and are generally painless. Many lipomas are small (under one centimeter diameter) but can enlarge to sizes greater than six centimeters.
Fatty tumors are lipomas, or benign soft tissue tumors. While fatty tumor removal is not usually necessary, some patients need to have their lipomas or skin lumps removed by a lipoma surgeon. This could be for any of the following reasons:
A lipoma is a slow-growing, fatty lump that's most often situated between your skin and the underlying muscle layer. A lipoma, which feels doughy and usually isn't tender, moves readily with slight finger pressure. Lipomas are usually detected in middle age.
Dogs with fatty tumors (lipomas) have a soft, non-painful swelling in the skin that slowly increases in size. The skin over the fatty tumor remains healthy and covered with hair unless the skin rubs against another part of your dog's body and is damaged by friction.
Fatty Tumor. A fatty tumor is a lump composed of adipose (fat) tissue, and is usually benign. Typically these tumors take the form of a fatty lipoma, a benign lump that forms just under the surface of the skin. However, there are some cases where a tumor appearing to be a fatty tumor may carry precancerous or cancerous cells, so it is important to see your doctor if you develop any sort of lump in your skin.