The Latin name of the endangered Socotra dragon tree or dragon blood tree is Dracaena cinnabari and it is native to the Socotra archipelago of islands in Yemen in the Indian Ocean. It is called a dragon tree due to the red sap that the trees produce. 
Voyagers to the Canary Islands in the 15th century obtained dragon's blood as dried garnet-red drops from Dracaena draco, a tree native to the Canary Islands and Morocco. The resin is exuded from its wounded trunk or branches. It was also used in medieval ritual magic and alchemy. Dragon's blood of both Dracaena draco (commonly referred to as the Draconis Palm) and Dracaena cinnabari were used as a source of varnish for 18th century Italian violinmakers.
A new species of Dragon's Blood Tree Dracaena kaweesakii (Wilkin & Suksathan, 2013) was discovered in the mountains of Thailand in 2013 although it appears to have been cultivated in the grounds of Buddhist temples for some time. It grows to 40ft in height with extensive branching. Dragon's Blood The stems of Dracaena trees especially Dracaena cinnabari from Socotra and Dracaena draco from the Canary Islands, exude a reddish sap (Dragon's Blood) containing spirit-soluble resins, from cracks in the bark of the trunk. Resin collectors assist the process by enlarging the cracks. 
Description: Dragon's Blood Tree is a member of the Dracaenaceae family, is a native to the Madeira, Cape Verde and Canary Island groups, off the north-west coast of Africa. 
Dracaena cinnabari, the Socotra dragon tree or dragon blood tree, is a dragon tree native to the Socotra archipelago in the Indian Ocean. It is so called due to the red sap that the trees produce. The unusual shape of the dragon's blood tree is an adaptation for survival in arid conditions with low amounts of soil, such as in mountaintops. The large, packed crown provides shade and reduces evaporation.
The dragon blood tree is the most famous and distinctive plant of the island of Socotra. It has a unique and strange appearance, described as upturned, densely packed crown having the shape of an uprightly held umbrella. This evergreen species is named after its dark red resin, which is known as dragon's blood. The unusual shape of the dragon's blood tree is an adaptation for survival in arid conditions with low amounts of soil, such as in mountaintops. The large, packed crown provides shade and reduces evaporation.
it is called Dracaena cinnabari. Dracaena cinnabari, the Socotra dragon tree or dragon blood tree, is a dragon tree native to the Socotra archipelago in the Indian Ocean in Yemen. It is so called due to the red sap that the trees produce. 
Extraordinary plants survive a harsh life in Socotra. The true source of Dragon’s blood, is from a tree grown on the Socotra archipelago, south of the Arabian peninsula. The blood red sap has had many uses over time, from medicinal treatments to dyes and toothpaste and it is still used as a varnish for violins. Dragon's blood tree. Dragon's blood trees are a distinctive and slow-growing species of dragon tree native to the Socotra archipelago off the horn of Africa.
Dragon's blood is a bright red resin that is obtained from different species of a number of distinct plant genera: Croton, Dracaena, Daemonorops, Calamus rotang and Pterocarpus. The red resin has been in continuous use since ancient times as varnish, medicine, incense, and dye. It was also used in medieval ritual magic and alchemy. Dragon's blood of both Dracaena draco (commonly referred to as the Draconis Palm) and Dracaena cinnabari were used as a source of varnish for 18th century Italian violinmakers.