The Bigfoot-Giganto hypothesis suggests that bigfoots are surving relatives of the genus Gigantopithecus. Gigantopithecus (the Latin word for Giant Ape) was a giant cousin of the orangutan. It was presumed to be extinct. 
Bigfoot. Sasquatch. Yeti. The Abominable Snowman. Whatever you want to call it, such a giant, mythical ape is not real—at least, not anymore. But more than a million years ago, an ape as big as a polar bear lived in South Asia, until going extinct 300,000 years ago.
Bigfoot is described in reports as a large, hairy, muscular, bipedal ape-like creature, with adults in a range of 1.8–3 m (5.9–9.8 ft) tall, and usually estimated to weigh from 280 to 1,000 pounds (130 to 450 kg). The evidence that does exist supporting the survival of such a large, prehistoric ape-like creature has been attributed to hoaxes or delusion rather than to sightings of a genuine creature. In a 1996 USA Today article, Washington State zoologist John Crane said, There is no such thing as Bigfoot.
One theory about a possible explanation for Bigfoot or Sasquatch is that it could turn out to be a large primate called Gigantopithecus, 9-foot-tall apes that presumably went extinct around 100,000 years ago. In LiveScience.com, Radford pointed out that since There is no reference sample of Bigfoot DNA to compare it with, by definition, there cannot be a conclusive match.. Ketchum's work isn't the only ongoing research project aimed at trying to confirm, through DNA, the existence of Bigfoot.
Most scientists discount the existence of Bigfoot and consider it to be a combination of folklore, misidentification, and hoax, rather than a living animal, because of the lack of physical evidence and the large numbers of creatures that would be necessary to maintain a breeding population. The evidence that does exist supporting the survival of such a large, prehistoric ape-like creature has been attributed to hoaxes or delusion rather than to sightings of a genuine creature. In a 1996 USA Today article, Washington State zoologist John Crane said, There is no such thing as Bigfoot.
A more scientific name shared by some scientists is the Gigantopithecus Blacki, an extinct primate that lived in Asia some 3000,000 years ago and could have found its way to other parts of the world via the land bridge before Asia broke off the mainland. There is plenty of food in the areas the Bigfoot frequents to sustain a large community of these animals. Here is just a general list of what they could survive on: 1  Plants-there are many wild plants, flowers and roots that are edible such as mushrooms, berries wild onions.
Some Bigfoot hunters say Gigantopithecus is alive and well, hiding out in the forests of the Pacific Northwest. Other Sasquatch enthusiasts, however, point out this is unlikely, as Bigfoot is reported to be a swift, agile, upright walker—not a lumbering, 1,200-pound quadruped. Whatever you want to call it, such a giant, mythical ape is not real—at least, not anymore. But more than a million years ago, an ape as big as a polar bear lived in South Asia, until going extinct 300,000 years ago.
Bigfoot (also known as Sasquatch) is the name given to a cryptid simian -, ape -, hominid -, or Hominin-like creature that is said to inhabit forests, mainly in the Pacific Northwest region of North America. Bigfoot is usually described as a large, hairy, bipedal humanoid. The evidence that does exist supporting the survival of such a large, prehistoric ape-like creature has been attributed to hoaxes or delusion rather than to sightings of a genuine creature. In a 1996 USA Today article, Washington State zoologist John Crane said, There is no such thing as Bigfoot.
Lol @ Afterthought. Well the closest relative to the Bigfoot, if it exists, is the long extinct Gigantopithecus as far as we can theorize with lack of physical evidence. Skeletons have been found in Asia of this species, it's very possible that they also migrated to North America through the Bering land bridge. In the past there have more sightings of Bigfoot and different types of ape men. With the advancing of human civilization the creature could be losing its habitat. We should of already found a skeleton, or something else that can prove Bigfoot is real.