The term scrod may derive from the Dutch schrod, implying cutting or shredding, or from Cornish scrawed, where it connotes splitting and drying of the fish (though a variety of apocryphal acronyms and origins have been suggested for the term). Scrod appears in a cookbook published in 1851 in reference to cooking a young cod or the split tail of a large cod after preparation by scrawing. In scrawing, fish are split open, dried in the sun or salted overnight (to remove moisture), then broiled.
A method of preparation of scrod that appears historically, as early as the 19th century, is scrawing, which involves a drying step before the fish are broiled or otherwise cooked. Scrod appears in a cookbook published in 1851 in reference to cooking a young cod or the split tail of a large cod after preparation by scrawing. In scrawing, fish are split open, dried in the sun or salted overnight (to remove moisture), then broiled.
Scrod (variant, schrod) refers to young cod, haddock, or other whitefish that are prepared and eaten as food, often after preparation that involves splitting and boning the fish. Scrod appears in a cookbook published in 1851 in reference to cooking a young cod or the split tail of a large cod after preparation by scrawing. In scrawing, fish are split open, dried in the sun or salted overnight (to remove moisture), then broiled.
Full Definition of SCROD. : a young fish (as a cod or haddock); especially: one split and boned for cooking. See scrod defined for English-language learners. See scrod defined for kids. 
Historically, scrod was a feature on menus associated with elegant New England dining; young cod are the mainstay on modern menus presenting the fish, and it is a staple in many coastal New England and Atlantic Canadian seafood and fish markets, and at many restaurants. Scrod appears in a cookbook published in 1851 in reference to cooking a young cod or the split tail of a large cod after preparation by scrawing. In scrawing, fish are split open, dried in the sun or salted overnight (to remove moisture), then broiled.
• SCROD (noun). The noun SCROD has 2 senses: 1. flesh of young Atlantic cod weighing up to 2 pounds; also young haddock and pollock; often broiled. 2. young Atlantic cod or haddock especially one split and boned for cooking. Familiarity information: SCROD used as a noun is rare.
Scrod. Scrod was originally any young cod, haddock, or other whitefish, split and boned. It is a term credited to chefs at Boston’s Parker House Hotel, also the originator of Parker House rolls. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Scrod is a generic term which is used to refer to fresh whitefish which has been split and boned before sale. 
scrod. n. 1. (Animals) US a young cod or haddock, esp one split and prepared for cooking. [C19: perhaps from obsolete Dutch schrood, from Middle Dutch schrode shred (n); the name perhaps refers to the method of preparing the fish for cooking]. scrod. n. pl. scrod also schrod. A small cod or similar fish, such as haddock or hake, especially one split and boned for cooking. [Possibly back-formation (influenced by. and.