The most common type of interest group is formed around businesses, corporations, and trade associations. Part of their reputation for power is based on the fact that they represent about half of all interest groups in Washington. Interest groups send representatives to state capitals and to Washington, D.C. to put pressure on members of Congress and other policymakers. They engage in lobbying, or the organized process of influencing legislation or policy. Lobbying can take many forms.
Business Groups. Business groups are the most common type of interest group; more than half of all registered lobbyists work for business organizations. Some business lobbyists work for a single corporation, lobbying solely for that company. Economic Groups. Economic groups, which seek some sort of economic advantage for their members, are the most common type of interest group. Money has significant influence in capitalist societies, so economic interest groups are numerous and powerful.
Best Answer: Special interest group. I was privileged to associate with a greenpeace group recently and I could not believe the lack of common sense with most of these people. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. i suppose it's an interest group. it's not a governmental agency. to some degree, i don't like the term interest group applied to them. in general, i think of an interest group as a group that has a financial interest in some issue. with Greenpeace, clearly it's not a financial interest
As Greenpeace, we know from nature that diversity is essential to life on the planet and success in our organization. We welcome, value and rely on a diversity of people, cultural experiences and perspectives. We ensure our financial independence from political or commercial interests.” Annie Leonard, Greenpeace USA Executive Director. “We ‘bear witness’ to environmental destruction in a peaceful, non-violent manner. We use non-violent confrontation to raise the level and quality of public debate.
Greenpeace is an independent global campaigning organization that acts to change attitudes and behaviour, to protect and conserve the environment and to promote peace by: Catalysing an energy revolution to address the number one threat facing our planet: climate change. On May 27, 2014, Esperanza, the ship of Greenpeace, which is environmental group opposed to drilling oil well in the Arctic area, took over Transocean Spitsbergen, oil rig of Statoil (Norway's world-wide company which deals with energy sources) Statoil in the Barents Sea so that it cannot drill well.
Greenpeace states its goal is to ensure the ability of the Earth to nurture life in all its diversity  and focuses its campaigning on worldwide issues such as climate change, deforestation, overfishing, commercial whaling, genetic engineering, and anti-nuclear issues. On May 27, 2014, Esperanza, the ship of Greenpeace, which is environmental group opposed to drilling oil well in the Arctic area, took over Transocean Spitsbergen, oil rig of Statoil (Norway's world-wide company which deals with energy sources) Statoil in the Barents Sea so that it cannot drill well.
Actually, there are three major types of interest groups. Animal rights groups such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals(PETA) and environmental interest groups such as Greenpeace usually organize as public-interest groups. These groups claim to work not for self interest but for the best interest of the public. Interest groups send representatives to state capitals and to Washington, D.C. to put pressure on members of Congress and other policymakers. They engage in lobbying, or the organized process of influencing legislation or policy. Lobbying can take many forms.
Greenpeace is a non-governmental environmental organization with offices in over forty countries and with an international coordinating body in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. On May 27, 2014, Esperanza, the ship of Greenpeace, which is environmental group opposed to drilling oil well in the Arctic area, took over Transocean Spitsbergen, oil rig of Statoil (Norway's world-wide company which deals with energy sources) Statoil in the Barents Sea so that it cannot drill well.
page 1 of 3. An interest group is an organization of people who share a common interest and work together to protect and promote that interest by influencing the government. Interest groups vary greatly in size, aims, and tactics. Political scientists generally divide interest groups into two categories: economic and noneconomic. Economic Groups. Economic groups, which seek some sort of economic advantage for their members, are the most common type of interest group. Money has significant influence in capitalist societies, so economic interest groups are numerous and powerful.