Monoamine oxidase is an enzyme present in the liver, nerve tissues, gastrointestinal tract, and lungs. It is responsible for the deamination (removal of amine group) of various amines, such as dopamine, serotonin (5-HT), norepinephrine, and epinephrine. When the activity of monoamine oxidase is restricted, the concentration of vital neurotransmitters increases in the central nervous system. Since there is no breakdown of these chemicals, a large quantity remains.
Monoamine oxidase. Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are chemicals which inhibit the activity of the monoamine oxidase enzyme family. They have a long history of use as medications prescribed for the treatment of depression. They are particularly effective in treating atypical depression. The early MAOIs covalently bound to the monoamine oxidase enzymes, thus inhibiting them irreversibly; the bound enzyme could not function and thus enzyme activity was blocked until the cell made new enzymes. The enzymes turn over approximately every two weeks.
MAOIs act by inhibiting the activity of monoamine oxidase, thus preventing the breakdown of monoamine neurotransmitters and thereby increasing their availability. There are two isoforms of monoamine oxidase, MAO-A and MAO-B. The early MAOIs covalently bound to the monoamine oxidase enzymes, thus inhibiting them irreversibly; the bound enzyme could not function and thus enzyme activity was blocked until the cell made new enzymes. The enzymes turn over approximately every two weeks.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) were the first medications approved for the treatment of depression symptoms and are also used to treat several other medical conditions, such as Parkinson's disease and bulimia nervosa. 1  History of MAOIs. When the activity of monoamine oxidase is restricted, the concentration of vital neurotransmitters increases in the central nervous system. Since there is no breakdown of these chemicals, a large quantity remains.
It is inhibited by clorgyline and befloxatone. Inhibition of both MAO-A and MAO-B using a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAO inhibitor) is used in the treatment of clinical depression, erectile dysfunction and anxiety. “Monoamine oxidases (MAOs) are enzymes that are involved in the breakdown of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine and are, therefore, capable of influencing feelings, mood, and behaviour of individuals”.
Like most antidepressants, MAOIs work by changing the levels of one or more of these naturally occurring brain chemicals. An enzyme called monoamine oxidase is involved in removing the neurotransmitters norepinephrine, serotonin and dopamine from the brain. MAOIs prevent this from happening, which makes more of these brain chemicals available. This is thought to boost mood by improving brain cell communication. MAOIs also affect other neurotransmitters in the brain and digestive system, causing side effects. MAOIs are sometimes used to treat conditions other than depression, such as Parkinson's disease.
Function [edit]. Monoamine oxidase A is an enzyme that degrades amine neurotransmitters, such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. The protein localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane. Its encoding gene is adjacent to a related gene (MAOB) on the opposite strand of the X chromosome. “Monoamine oxidases (MAOs) are enzymes that are involved in the breakdown of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine and are, therefore, capable of influencing feelings, mood, and behaviour of individuals”.
Monoamine oxidase A is an enzyme that degrades amine neurotransmitters, such as dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin. The protein localizes to the outer mitochondrial membrane. “Monoamine oxidases (MAOs) are enzymes that are involved in the breakdown of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine and are, therefore, capable of influencing feelings, mood, and behaviour of individuals”.