Even though the USDA recommends a minimum intake of 130 grams of carbohydrates a day, Phinney and Volek claim that a low-carb higher-fat diet reduces your need for energy in the form of carbohydrates by promoting the formation of ketones, a byproduct of fat oxidation. The USDA Dietary Guidelines recommend that women get about half of their calories from carbs. Carbohydrates account for the majority of the calories consumed in the standard American diet.
Considering a typical calorie intake of 2,000 to 2,200 calories a day for a moderately active woman, this recommendation corresponds to 225 to 358 grams of carbohydrates a day. The USDA Dietary Guidelines recommend that women get about half of their calories from carbs. Carbohydrates account for the majority of the calories consumed in the standard American diet.
The Institute of Medicine report Dietary Reference Intakes for Energy, Carbohydrate, Fiber, Fat, Fatty Acids, Cholesterol, Protein, and Amino Acids (IOM, 2002) established a Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for carbohydrate of 130 g per day for adults and children. 
You'll see total carbohydrates, sugars and fiber listed on the food label. Carbohydrates aren’t something you should limit in your diet. They turn into your body’s main source of fuel -- glucose -- during digestion, making them an essential part of your daily calories.
The type of carbohydrate you choose to include in your diet can make a difference in your health. A large portion of the carbohydrates currently consumed by women come from sugar and refined carbs, which are practically devoid of nutrients. The USDA Dietary Guidelines recommend that women get about half of their calories from carbs. Carbohydrates account for the majority of the calories consumed in the standard American diet.
Divide these numbers by 4 -- carbohydrates have 4 calories per gram -- to convert calories from carbs into grams of carbohydrates. If 1,800 calories daily is your usual intake, for example, you can have 810 to 1,170 calories from carbohydrates, which is about 203 to 293 grams of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates aren’t something you should limit in your diet. They turn into your body’s main source of fuel -- glucose -- during digestion, making them an essential part of your daily calories.
Low-carb diets allow you to have somewhere around 50 to 150 grams of carbohydrates each day, MayoClinic.com reports. Since carbohydrates offer 4 calories per gram, this amounts to a minimal 200 to 600 calories from carbohydrates. Following a low-carb diet that only allows you to have 50 grams per day, for example, means that you’ll be getting less than 25 percent of the recommended amount.
Normally you should be getting 45 to 65 percent of your calories from carbohydrates, states the Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2010. So if you stick to a 2,000-calorie per day diet, you’ll need 900 to 1,300 calories from carbs, or 225 to 325 grams daily. Following a low-carb diet that only allows you to have 50 grams per day, for example, means that you’ll be getting less than 25 percent of the recommended amount. Related Reading: Low Carb Diet Menu With Brown Rice
Daily Carbohydrate Needs. As much as 45 percent to 65 percent of the calories in your diet need to come from carbohydrates, as reported in the publication Dietary Guidelines for Americans, 2010.. Carbohydrates aren’t something you should limit in your diet. They turn into your body’s main source of fuel -- glucose -- during digestion, making them an essential part of your daily calories.
OVERVIEW. Carbohydrates are part of a healthful diet. The AMDR for carbohydrates is 45 to 65 percent of total calories. Dietary fiber is composed of nondigestible carbohydrates and lignin intrinsic and intact in plants. 