It means that as far as the United States is concerned, you are a citizen of the United States and have the same rights, privileges, and responsibilities as any other citizen, but that another country also recognizes you as a citizen of that nation. 
Full Definition of CITIZENSHIP. 1. : the status of being a citizen. 2. a: membership in a community (as a college) b: the quality of an individual's response to membership in a community. See citizenship defined for English-language learners. See citizenship defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : the fact or status of being a citizen of a particular place. : the qualities that a person is expected to have as a responsible member of a community.
What is the definition of Citizenship. A citizen is a participatory member of a political community. Citizenship is gained by meeting the legal requirements of a national, state, or local government. A nation grants certain rights and privileges to its citizens. In return, citizens are expected to obey their country's laws and defend it against its enemies. The value of citizenship varies from nation to nation. In some countries, citizenship can mean a citizen has the right to vote, the right to hold government offices, and the right to collect unemployment insurance payments, to name a few examples.
Naturalization (or naturalisation) is the legal act or process by which a non-citizen in a country may acquire citizenship or nationality of that country. It may be done by a statute, without any effort on the part of the individual, or it may involve an application and approval by legal authorities. 
Nationality is often used as a synonym for citizenship in English – notably in international law – although the term is sometimes understood as denoting a person's membership of a nation (a large ethnic group). 1 Where jus sanguinis holds, a person born outside a country, one or both of whose parents are citizens of the country, is also a citizen. 2  States normally limit the right to citizenship by descent to a certain number of generations born outside the state. 3  This form of citizenship is not common in civil law countries.
Citizenship can be defined as the status or the membership given to a person in a country. It involves rights, duties and privileges. There are two main types of citizenship i.e. Acquired and natural. Thus it is the membership of a political community. It is largely related to nationality. It is about the political rights available to a person ... One of them is honorary citizenship which is given to a person because of his worthiness and admirable qualities. You become a citizen of a country by being born there and citizenship of a country can be acquired after settling down in a place for a certain period of time.
Example: My citizenship is with the United States of America. 2. noun. A person' … s conduct as a citizen Example: An award for good citizenship Citizen: A resident of a city or town, especially one able to vote, and enjoy other privileges there. One of them is honorary citizenship which is given to a person because of his worthiness and admirable qualities. You become a citizen of a country by being born there and citizenship of a country can be acquired after settling down in a place for a certain period of time.