Temperature. The average annual temperature for temperate rainforests is about 0°C (32°F) because temperate rainforests are usually located close to the ocean, but for the warmer parts of the temperate rainforests the average annual temperature is around 20°C (68°F). 
The average temperature of a Deciduous Forest is around 50 degrees Fahrenheit (10 degrees Celsius). When the temperature is looked at month by month (graph below right), it, unlike precipitation, is a steady incline and decline, peaking during the months of June, July, and August (Summer, in other words). 
The corresponding biome is the Deciduous Forest, or Temperate Forest biome. The latitude range is anywhere from 23 ° north to 38 ° south. One thing that is interesting about this biome and its climate is that it has four distinct seasons; spring, summer, autumn, and winter. Winter temperatures are fairly cool with an average temperature of a little below freezing. Almost all of the world's deciduous forest is located by an ocean. The ocean and the wind are two big factors of why the temperature and climate change so much in this biome.
The temperature varies widely from season to season with cold winters and hot, wet summers. The average yearly temperature is about 10°C. The areas in which deciduous forests are located get about 750 to 1,500 mm of precipitation spread fairly evenly throughout the year. During the fall, trees change color and then lose their leaves. This is in preparation for the winter season.
Precipitation. The annual precipitation for temperate rainforests is at least 200 cm (78.74 in) and can go up to 350 cm (137.79 in). Temperate rainforests have four seasons with a distinct winter
Climate is a mix of temperature and precipitation. Deciduous forests have almost 14 inches of rain in the winter months and more than 18 inches of rain in the summer. Winter temperatures are fairly cool with an average temperature of a little below freezing. Almost all of the world's deciduous forest is located by an ocean. The ocean and the wind are two big factors of why the temperature and climate change so much in this biome.
Precipitation in the temperate grasslands usually occurs in the late spring and early summer. The annual average is about 50.8 to 88.9 cm (20-35 inches). The temperature range is very large over the course of the year. Summer temperatures can be well over 38° C (100 degrees Fahrenheit), while winter temperatures can be as low as -40° C (-40 degrees Fahrenheit).
Climate. The climate in the Temperate Forest varies, and the plant and animal life there must adapt. For example, when the weather gets cold most animals put on an extra layer of fat to keep warm. The average temperature in this biome is 60 degrees F in the daytime and in the nighttime it can get below freezing. In every month of the year the Temperate Forest sees some rainfall. The rainfall ranges from 40 inches to 150 inches per year. Once in a while there are severe storms in this biome, and in some parts of the Temperate Forest it snows in winter months. In the Temperate Forest there are generally warm summers, and short, cold and silent winters. 
In the rainforest biome there are tall trees and warm temperatures all year. The yearly average rainfall is from 50 to 260 inches. The temperature is warm but not hot. Almost every rainforest you might visit has a temperature range of 93°F to 69°F. The average humidity is between 77 and 88 percent.
If the Earth were not tilted on an axis, temperatures around the globe would always be the same. Temperate deciduous forests also have quite a wet environment. Following rainforests, temperate deciduous forests are the second-rainiest biome. The average yearly precipitation is 30 - 60 inches (75 - 150 cm). This precipitation falls throughout the year, but in the winter it falls as snow. The average temperature in temperate deciduous forests is 50°F (10°C). Summers are mild, and average about 70°F (21°C), while winter temperatures are often well below freezing. PLANTS: Trees and plants in deciduous forests have special adaptations to survive in this biome. 