That means that you ate something that wasn't digested good. thanks for using chacha. [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-does-it-mean-when-your-burps-taste-like-rotten-eggs ]. More Answers to  What does it mean when your burps taste like rotten eggs .
Burping gas that smell strongly of rotten eggs is actually indicative of the presence of sulfur in our stomach. This is the reason why this type of burps is commonly known as sulfur burps. The smell of sulfur burps or rotten egg burps usually comes from the presence of hydrogen sulfide.
A sulfur burp is when gas is dispelled from a person's mouth, like a belch, and is accompanied by a strong, foul odor. This odor is similar to the smell of rotting eggs or to the foul smell of sulfur. There are largely three reasons why this condition can arise.
Poultry meals also contain high sulfur content as well as red meats, eggs, dairy products particularly milk and some vegetables such as broccoli, cabbage, garlic, mustard, parsley, pack choi, onions, Swiss chards, tomatoes, watercress, yams, sweet potatoes and asparagus.
Foul smelling burps, which are often also known as rotten egg burps and sulfur burps, are not caused simply by swallowing lots of air. When you have been burping a lot, and the burps smell really bad, it is because of an infection in the body or a problem in your digestive tract. Bacterial infections are usually associated with bad smelling burps. If the odor of your burping is like rotten eggs, there is a way to help you get over this.
Answer by Puhlaa. Confidence votes 4.9K. Recurrent rotten-egg tasting burps associated with diarrhea could be a symptom of Giardia lamblia infection. Giardia lamblia is a parasite that colonises and reproduces in the small intestine of humans, but is also one of the most common parasites infecting cats and dogs.
Eating lots of protein.  Recurrent rotten-egg tasting burps could also be a symptom of Giardia lamblia infection. Giardia lamblia is a parasite that colonises and reprodu … ces in the small intestine of humans, but is also one of the most common parasites infecting cats and dogs.