An arrhythmia is an abnormality in the timing or pattern of the heartbeat. When you have an arrhythmia, your heart may beat too quickly or too slowly, or you may experience an irregular rhythm in which your heart feels as if it is skipping a beat.. An arrhythmia means the heart is not beating in the proper rhythm. This can cause anything from minor symptoms all the way to cardiac arrest and death. Since different rhythm disturbances need different treatments, diagnosing the precise type of arrhythmia is important.
Cardiac arrhythmia, also known as cardiac dysrhythmia or irregular heartbeat, is a group of conditions in which the heartbeat is irregular, too fast, or too slow. Arrhythmia may be classified by rate (tachycardia, bradycardia), mechanism (automaticity, reentry, triggered) or duration (isolated premature beats; couplets; runs, that is 3 or more beats; non-sustained= less than 30 seconds or sustained= over 30 seconds).
Rapid arrhythmias are called tachycardias, while slow ones are called bradycardias. Irregular arrhythmias-when the heartbeat is irregular-are called fibrillations, as in atrial or ventricular fibrillation. When a single heartbeat occurs earlier than it should it is called premature contraction. 1 The heart may beat too fast (ventricular tachycardia) or irregularly (ventricular fibrillation). 2  Cardiomyopathy-disease of the myocardium (heart muscle). 3  The walls of the ventricles may stretch or enlarge, or the left ventricle wall may thicken and constrict.
About Arrhythmia. An arrhythmia is an abnormal heart rhythm. Learn about the heart's structure and why abnormal heart rhythms may cause problems. Read more. 
Arrhythmia. An arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah) is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm. A heartbeat that is too fast is called tachycardia (TAK-ih-KAR-de-ah). A heartbeat that is too slow is called bradycardia (bray-de-KAR-de-ah). Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some can be serious or even life threatening. Arrhythmia (Cardiac Arrhythmia). An arrhythmia is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute).
An irregular heartbeat is an arrhythmia (also called dysrhythmia). Heart rates can also be irregular. A normal heart rate is 50 to 100 beats per minute. Arrhythmias and abnormal heart rates don't necessarily occur together. Arrhythmias can occur with a normal heart rate, or with heart rates that are slow (called bradyarrhythmias -- less than 50 beats per minute). Arrhythmias can also occur with rapid heart rates (called tachyarrhythmias -- faster than 100 beats per minute). 1 Atrial fibrillation. 2  Atrial fibrillation is a very common irregular heart rhythm that causes the atria, the upper chambers of the heart, to contract abnormally. 3  Atrial flutter. 4  This is an arrhythmia caused by one or more rapid circuits in the atrium.
An arrhythmia is a disorder of the heart that affects the rate or rhythm at which the heart beats. An arrhythmia occurs when electrical impulses, which direct and regulate heartbeats, don’t function properly. This causes the heart to beat too fast (tachycardia), too slow (bradycardia), too early (premature contraction), or too erratically (fibrillation).
Knowledge center. An arrhythmia is an irregular heartbeat-the heart may beat too fast (tachycardia), too slowly (bradycardia), too early (premature contraction) or too irregularly (fibrillation). 1 The heart may beat too fast (ventricular tachycardia) or irregularly (ventricular fibrillation). 2  Cardiomyopathy-disease of the myocardium (heart muscle). 3  The walls of the ventricles may stretch or enlarge, or the left ventricle wall may thicken and constrict.
An arrhythmia (ah-RITH-me-ah) is a problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. During an arrhythmia, the heart can beat too fast, too slow, or with an irregular rhythm. A heartbeat that is too fast is called tachycardia (TAK-ih-KAR-de-ah). A heartbeat that is too slow is called bradycardia (bray-de-KAR-de-ah). Most arrhythmias are harmless, but some can be serious or even life threatening. During an arrhythmia, the heart may not be able to pump enough blood to the body. Lack of blood flow can damage the brain, heart, and other organs.