| Category: Spring. Lilac (genus: Syringa) is a deciduous shrub that’s most known for its pleasing fragrance and lilac colored flowers. There are literally hundreds of different varieties of lilacs, ranging in color from deep purple and lilac (hence the name), to white and pink. And from pleasingly fragrant, to not at all fragrant, to downright unpleasant smelling (Japanese tree lilac). Of course, the fragrance alone is reason enough for some people to purchase lilacs. The exact aroma will depend on the variety of lilac you choose. With that said, however, you can expect most varieties to posses a strong, fresh fragrance that some people compare to a mixture of lavender and wild berries.
Lilac flowers range from creamy shades to purples. Lilac 'Sensation' is only slightly fragrant, but its pin-striped blossoms are sensational. I'm partial to purple, but I grow lilacs of many colors and shades -- lilac, white, blue, purple, magenta, violet, and pink. There's even a yellowish lilac— S. vulgaris 'Primrose'. To encourage the most flowers, prune lilacs right after their blooms fade. Powdery mildew is a fungus that often grows on the leaves of lilacs, especially in humid areas. It's usually more a nuisance than a threat, since it appears in the late summer and early autumn, after most of the growing season.
Ted's Top Lilacs. There are hundreds of lilac varieties. Flower colors range from rich, burgundy-purple to lilac, lavender, blue, white, and even creamy yellow. Lilacs have almost as many scents -- with varying degrees of the light floral scent they're famous for to warm, spicy tones. Top Lilacs for Fragrance and Color. Spring means lilacs -- and we have a roundup of 10 top selections for your landscape. These sun-loving, easy-care shrubs are perfect specimen plants or to grow as a hedge for privacy.
Fragrant Lilac Syringa vulgaris. Spectacular flowers in shades of lilac, light purple, or lavender make this old-time lilac a garden favorite. The long-lasting flower clusters bloom in April or May and are framed with lush green foliage. Their nostalgic fragrance adds to the coming of spring..
Another of the popular lilac cultivars is the white Persian. The fragrant white blooms on these lilac cultivars make them one of the most lovely and pure of all lilacs. Reaching four to six feet in height, these lilac cultivars make a wonderful foundation planting or garden border. These lilac cultivars are also hardy in zones three through seve
French Lilac. French lilac (Syringa vulgaris) is the most familiar, commonly known lilac. It grows 10 to 15 feet in height with a branch spread of 6 to 12 feet. The extremely fragrant flowers appear in early to mid-May in colors ranging from purple to mauve to white. It is a small tree or multi-stemmed shrub that reaches 15 to 20 feet in height. Its fragrant, creamy white flowers bloom in late May to early summer on 3 to 6 inch stems. The Pekin lilac foliage is dark green and its bark is shiny and copper-colored, making it a prized garden specimen plant.
Lilac bushes are arguably one of the most fragrant flowers in the plant world. Botanically known as Syringa, Nature Hills offers lilacs in a ‘tree form’ along with the more traditional bush form. There are many different lilac cultivars (types). The fragrant white blooms on these lilac cultivars make them one of the most lovely and pure of all lilacs. Reaching four to six feet in height, these lilac cultivars make a wonderful foundation planting or garden border.
When most people think of lilacs, they think of the fragrant, old-fashioned common lilac (Syringa vulgaris), which blooms for a few weeks each spring, but the genus is quite diverse. Most lilacs grow happily in Zones 4-7, but some are adaptable farther south. Common lilacs, natives of somewhat chilly mountainous zones, require a cold period each winter for their flowers buds to mature and bloom the following spring.
I have two lilacs, a VERY fragrant white and a not-quite-so fragrant purple. The white is about 20 feet tall, perhaps 10-15 years old and began blooming near the top about a week ago. This week, in warm sunshine just after the rain, the scent was strong enough to knock me over. I was looking for fragrant shrubs, in bloom now. I had noted that some people had mentioned that their fragrant viburnum are blooming (burkwoodii and carlesii), and I wanted to get a whiff and maybe buy. On the way in, there were a bunch of French lilacs.
Pekin Lilac. The pekin lilac (Syringa pekinensis) is also hardy to USDA planting zone 3. It is a small tree or multi-stemmed shrub that reaches 15 to 20 feet in height. Its fragrant, creamy white flowers bloom in late May to early summer on 3 to 6 inch stems. The Pekin lilac foliage is dark green and its bark is shiny and copper-colored, making it a prized garden specimen plant.