Heat rash (prickly heat) is a red or pink rash usually found on body areas covered by clothing. It can develop when the sweat ducts become blocked and swell and often leads to discomfort and itching. Heat rash is most common in babies, but it may affect adults in hot, humid climates.
Causes. Heat rash develops when some of your sweat ducts clog. Instead of evaporating, perspiration gets trapped beneath the skin, causing inflammation and rash. It's not always clear why the sweat ducts become blocked, but certain factors seem to play a role, including:
Introduction. Prickly heat, also known as miliaria rubra, is an itchy rash of small, raised red spots that causes a stinging or prickling sensation on the skin. Prickly heat can develop anywhere on the body, but it most commonly occurs on your face, neck, back, chest and thighs.
Adults usually develop heat rash in skin folds and where clothing causes friction. In infants, the rash is mainly found on the neck, shoulders and chest. It can also show up in the armpits, elbow creases and groin.
Heat rash -- also called prickly heat or miliaria -- is a common condition in which areas of the skin feel prickly or sting due to overheating. Heat rash looks like tiny bumps surrounded by a zone of red skin. It usually occurs on clothed parts of the body, such as the back, abdomen, neck, upper chest, groin, or armpits and usually gets better once the skin is cooled. Heat rash occurs most often in hot, humid conditions. It's most common in infants.
Heat rash, also known as miliaria rubra, prickly heat, summer rash or wildfire rash is a condition in which obstruction causes leakage of sweat into the deeper layers of the epidermis, provoking a local inflammatory reaction giving rise to the typical appearance of redness and larger blister-like lesions.
Heat rash, also known as prickly heat or summer rash, is an eruption of little bumps (and sometimes tiny blisters) on the skin that can show up when your baby overheats. The bumps may appear red, especially on light skin. Children of all ages can get heat rash, but it's most common in babies.