Buffalo Bill (1846-1917). In a life that was part legend and part fabrication, William F. Cody came to embody the spirit of the West for millions, transmuting his own experience into a national myth of frontier life that still endures today. Born in Scott County, Iowa, in 1846, Cody grew up on the prairie. By his own count, he killed 4,280 head of buffalo in seventeen months. He is supposed to have won the name Buffalo Bill in an eight-hour shooting match with a hunter named William Comstock, presumably to determine which of the two Buffalo Bill s deserved the title. Beginning in 1868, Cody returned to his work for the Army
In 1883, in the area of North Platte, Nebraska, Cody founded Buffalo Bill's Wild West, a circus-like attraction that toured annually. (Despite popular misconception, the word show was not a part of the title.) With his show, Cody traveled throughout the United States and Europe and made many contacts. He founded his Buffalo Bill's Wild West in 1883, taking his large company on tours throughout the United States and, beginning in 1887, in Great Britain and Europe.
| Filed Under: Odds Leave a Comment. The real name of the Wild West showman named “Buffalo Bill” was William Cody. When Cody was 21 years old, he was hired by a company that was building a railroad. His job was to kill buffalo to provide food for the men working on the railroad. In a period of 17 months, Cody earned his nickname of “Buffalo Bill” by killing 4,280 buffaloes! 
Buffalo Bill, William F. Cody, was arguably the best known American in the world during his lifetime. Having been involved in many events that shaped the American West, he formed an arena show of the western experience called Buffalo Bill's Wild West in 1883. It toured the United States and Europe for 30 years. 
All the while Cody was earning a reputation for skill and bravery in real life, he was also becoming a national folk hero, thanks to the exploits of his alter ego, Buffalo Bill, in the dime novels of Ned Buntline (pen name of the writer E. Z. C. Judson). By his own count, he killed 4,280 head of buffalo in seventeen months. He is supposed to have won the name Buffalo Bill in an eight-hour shooting match with a hunter named William Comstock, presumably to determine which of the two Buffalo Bill s deserved the title. Beginning in 1868, Cody returned to his work for the Army
Buffalo Bill the character was first a fiction created to symbolize the wild west.. William Cody the man became so enraptured with this persona that it began to dominate his life and his work. It was Cody who, in his autobiography, placed Buffalo Bill in the company of Daniel Boone, Kit Carson, and Davy Crockett.
William Cody (Buffalo Bill). William Cody (Buffalo Bill) was born near Le Claire, Iowa, on 26th February, 1846. His family moved to Kansas in 1854 and settled near Leavenworth. Cody worked as an express messenger and at the age of 12 claimed he killed his first Native American. Later he worked as a driver at Fort Laramie. 
There are many reasons why William F. Cody, also known as Buffalo Bill, gave the American West its name. William Cody was a Pony Express rider, buffalo hunter, Indian fighter, army scout, and an international showman. In his lifetime Cody was a living example of rugged Americanism. 
William Frederick Buffalo Bill Cody (February 26, 1846 – January 10, 1917) was an American scout, bison hunter, and showman. He was born in the Iowa Territory (now the U.S. state of Iowa), in Le Claire but he grew up for several years in his father's hometown in Canada before his family moved to the Kansas Territory. He founded his Buffalo Bill's Wild West in 1883, taking his large company on tours throughout the United States and, beginning in 1887, in Great Britain and Europe.