By Sarah Larson. Last weekend was the twenty-fifth anniversary of the release of Spike Lee’s 1989 Brooklyn masterpiece, “Do the Right Thing.” The movie was celebrated all over the country: in Los Angeles, with a screening at. He also acknowledged Bill Lee, Spike and Joie’s father, and the music director for “Do the Right Thing,” who ran around the upper level of the orchestra waving happily, to applause.
Mookie (Spike Lee) is a young black man living in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn with his sister, Jade (Joie Lee). He and his girlfriend, Tina (Rosie Perez), have a son. He's a pizza delivery man at the local pizzeria, but lacks ambition. Spike Lee campaigned for Robert De Niro as Sal the pizzeria owner, but De Niro had to decline due to prior commitments. The character of Smiley was not in the original script; he was created by Roger Guenveur Smith, who was pestering Spike Lee for a role in the film.
User Reviews. Spike Lee's explosive, brilliant cinematic masterpiece 8 January 1999 | by pooch-8 (Fargo, North Dakota) – See all my reviews I felt that Do the Right Thing should have been included in the AFI's Top 100. It has remained a powerful and moving film that I cannot stop thinking about years after its release
Rosie Perez, who played Spike Lee's fiery girlfriend in Do The Right Thing, talks with ABC's Juju Chang. President Obama praised Spike Lee for “holding a mirror up to society” about race relations all those years ago. The moral of the story told through “Do The Right Thing,” Perez said, “is that we have to live together” and learn how to peacefully coexist.
Fascinating and creative racial drama that manages to stay (mostly) upbeat. Spike Lee's breakout film Do the Right Thing is an great drama about racial tensions in Brooklyn on the hottest day of the year. Parents need to know that this Spike Lee film is an intense study of racism as it existed in an urban U.S. neighborhood during the late 1980s. There are many angry racial confrontations using provocative, coarse language and highly-charged racial taunts, including constant use of n----r..
Do the Right Thing is a 1989 American comedy-drama film produced, written, and directed by Spike Lee, who also played the part of Mookie in the film. Other members of the cast include Danny Aiello, Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee, Richard Edson, Giancarlo Esposito, Bill Nunn, John Turturro, and Samuel L. Jackson. Spike Lee campaigned for Robert De Niro as Sal the pizzeria owner, but De Niro had to decline due to prior commitments. The character of Smiley was not in the original script; he was created by Roger Guenveur Smith, who was pestering Spike Lee for a rol
Spike Lee's Do the Right Thing is the most controversial film of the year, and it only opens today. Thousands of people already have seen it at preview screenings, and everywhere I go, people are discussing it. Some of them are bothered by it; they think it will cause trouble. Others feel the message is confused. 
The original script of Do the Right Thing ends with a stronger reconciliation between Mookie and Sal. Sal's comments to Mookie mirror Da Mayor's earlier comments in the film and hint at some common ground and perhaps Sal's understanding of why Mookie was motivated to destroy his restaurant. Spike Lee campaigned for Robert De Niro as Sal the pizzeria owner, but De Niro had to decline due to prior commitments. The character of Smiley was not in the original script; he was created by Roger Guenveur Smith, who was pestering Spike Lee for a role in the film.
Spike Lee’s film, “Do The Right Thing,” is a chilling morality tale of police brutality, telling the story of a deadly choke hold by police, sparking a race riot. “Do The Right Thing,” which debuted 25 years ago, is eerily similar to what was captured on a cell phone video in the final moments in Eric Garner’s life. So much so, that a day after Garner died, director Spike Lee inter-cut scenes from his landmark movie, with the video taken of Garner’s struggle with police. President Obama praised Spike Lee for “holding a mirror up to society” about race relations all those years ago. The moral of the story told through “Do The Right Thing,” Perez said, “is that we have to live together” and learn how to peacefully coexist.