The nucleus of a cell contains threadlike structures that contain genetic material called chromosomes. In the nucleus of each cell in the human body (excluding gametes  [23]) there are 46 chromosomes, these chromosomes consist of lots  of different genes that all join up toge … ther (A to T, G to C) and  each gene has a code for a certain part of your body. 14 people found this useful.
The Nucleus. The nucleus is the cell's control center-that is, it contains the genetic information to do and make everything that goes on within a cell. The nuclear envelope is a double membrane (meaning it has a Primary/Outer and a Secondary/Inner layer) that surrounds the nucleus itself. It is made of a phospholipid bi-layer, like the cell membrane, and contains many pores for filtering.
Abstract. The cell nucleus is a double membrane‐bound organelle that contains the genetic information of the cell packaged in the form of chromatin. The nucleus is a characteristic feature of most eukaryotic cells. 
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell contains the DNA, the genetic material of the cell. The DNA contains the information necessary for constructing the cell and directing the multitude of synthesis tasks performed by the cell in the process of life and reproduction. The nucleolus is the central portion of the cell nucleus and is composed of ribosomal RNA, proteins and DNA. It also contains ribosomes in various stages of synthesis. The nucleolus accomplishes the manufacture of the ribosomes.
Report Abuse. The nucleus contains many things. It does contain DNA and chromosomes, but in also contains other components. For example, the nucleus contains the nucleolus, a mess of strands of nucleic acid. Also, the nucleus contains RNA, which convey the DNA's messages to the cell. Also in the nucleus is the nuclear envelope, which allows materials to pass through the membrane. Hope I could help. Best Answer: It contains most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. Source(s): Introvert · 7 years ago.
Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes. The genes within these chromosomes are the cell's nuclear genome. The cell nucleus contains the majority of the cell's genetic material in the form of multiple linear DNA molecules organized into structures called chromosomes. Each human cell contains roughly two meters of DNA.
Chromosomes [chromosome: One of the rod shaped bodies found in the nucleus of cells that contain genetic information (DNA).] are threadlike structures found in the nucleus of most cells (remember red blood cells have no nucleus and so these are not produced by mitosis). All the cells in the body of a particular species contain the same number of chromosomes. Cell division, or mitosis, is the method of increasing the number of cells. Single celled organisms can reproduce in this way to make new organisms. Multicellular organisms require cell division for growth and repair
Cells & Organelles. The nucleus is the cell's control center-that is, it contains the genetic information to do and make everything that goes on within a cell. The nuclear envelope is a double membrane (meaning it has a Primary/Outer and a Secondary/Inner layer) that surrounds the nucleus itself. It is made of a phospholipid bi-layer, like the cell membrane, and contains many pores for filtering.