DEFINITION of 'Financial Intermediary'. An entity that acts as the middleman between two parties in a financial transaction. While a commercial bank is a typical financial intermediary, this category also includes other financial institutions such as investment banks, insurance companies, broker-dealers, mutual funds and pension funds. 
The banking business thrives on the financial intermediation abilities of financial institutions that allow them to lend out money at relatively high rates of interest while receiving money on deposit at relatively low rates of interest.
A financial intermediary is typically an institution that facilitates the channeling of funds between lenders and borrowers indirectly. That is, savers (lenders) give funds to an intermediary institution (such as a bank), and that institution gives those funds to spenders (borrowers). This may be in the form of loans or mortgages. Alternatively, they may lend the money directly via the financial markets, which is known as financial disintermediation. According to some heterodox economists and others, financial intermediaries simply do not exist. Through the process of financial intermediation, certain assets or liabilities are transformed into different assets or liabilities.
In the context of climate finance and development, financial intermediaries generally refer to private sector intermediaries, such as banks, private equity, venture capital funds, leasing companies, insurance and pension funds, and micro-credit providers. According to some heterodox economists and others, financial intermediaries simply do not exist. Through the process of financial intermediation, certain assets or liabilities are transformed into different assets or liabilities.
1. In finance, withdrawal of funds from intermediary financial institutions, such as banks and savings and loan associations, in order to invest them directly.2. Generally, removing the middleman or intermediary.
Borrowers and Savers. There are two main roles in the financial intermediation process: borrowers, also known as spenders and savers, also called lenders. Let's look at borrowers first. Borrowers need money for various reasons; to purchase a home, start a business, pay for business expenses, and fund programs.dvantages of Financial Intermediation. There are several advantages of the financial intermediation process. However, there are three main advantages we'll discuss. The first is a reduction in costs.
DEFINITION of 'Disintermediation'. 1. In finance, withdrawal of funds from intermediary financial institutions, such as banks and savings and loan associations, in order to invest them directly. 2. Generally, removing the middleman or intermediary.
In this lesson, you'll understand the process of financial intermediation. We'll also discuss the players in the process, the types of financial intermediaries as well as the advantages of financial intermediation.dvantages of Financial Intermediation. There are several advantages of the financial intermediation process. However, there are three main advantages we'll discuss. The first is a reduction in costs.
In this lesson, we'll describe the players in this process, borrowers and savers, explain the different types of financial intermediaries, and discuss the advantages of financial intermediation.dvantages of Financial Intermediation. There are several advantages of the financial intermediation process. However, there are three main advantages we'll discuss. The first is a reduction in costs.