Discuss (44). A kippah (literally: dome) is the Hebrew word for skullcap, also referred to in Yiddish as a yarmulke, or less frequently as a koppel. Jewish law requires men to cover their heads as a sign of respect and reverence for G‑d when praying, studying Torah, saying a blessing or entering a synagogue. 
A Yamaka is a small, round cap that Jewish men wear atop their heads. It's typically black, concave, and roughly the circumference of a small pancake. Some are fastened to the hair with pins, others just sit atop the crown. Best Answer: A kippah (Hebrew: כִּפָּה, also kipah, kipa, kippa, plural kippot; Yiddish: יאַרמלקע, yarmlke, yarmulke, yarmulka, yarmelke, less commonly called kapel; English: skullcap, cap of maintenance) is a thin, usually slightly-rounded cloth cap worn by observant Jews (usually men, but not always; see below).
A yarmulke (pl: yarmulkes or yarmulkas) is the name  for a kippah (Hebrew for skullcap) in Yiddish, and the word is  sometimes used by American Jews and often by non-Jews. … Most Jews  use the Hebrew word which is kippa.. There is no Jewish law requiring the weari … ng of a kippah, but it is  a very strongly followed custom.    Answer:   Jewish males cover their heads with a kippa and/or a hat, as a  reminder of the presence of God. Not wearing a kippah (yarmulkah)  would be seen as a mark of impertinence
Report Abuse. A Yamaka is a small, round cap that Jewish men wear atop their heads. It's typically black, concave, and roughly the circumference of a small pancake. Some are fastened to the hair with pins, others just sit atop the crown. It symbolizes the humbling relationship between man and God. Best Answer: A kippah (Hebrew: כִּפָּה, also kipah, kipa, kippa, plural kippot; Yiddish: יאַרמלקע, yarmlke, yarmulke, yarmulka, yarmelke, less commonly called kapel; English: skullcap, cap of maintenance) is a thin, usually slightly-rounded cloth cap worn by observant Jews (usually men, but not always; see below).
The Wearing of a Yarmulke. Though the wearing of yarmulkes is not mandated by the Torah or the Talmud, it was customary in ancient times for Jews in prayer to cover their heads as a sign of respect for God. Some consider a kippah to be a reminder, much like a wedding ring, that we are not to stray into inappropriate thoughts and activities. In addition, it is a recognizable symbol of our Jewish faith to other members of the world community.
x. A yarmulke (also called a skullcap or by its Hebrew name, kippah) is a small, round head covering worn by Jews during prayer and by some Jews at all times. Some consider a kippah to be a reminder, much like a wedding ring, that we are not to stray into inappropriate thoughts and activities. In addition, it is a recognizable symbol of our Jewish faith to other members of the world community.
Meaning of the Yarmulke (Kippah). A yarmulke (also called a skullcap or by its Hebrew name, kippah) is a small, round head covering worn by Jews during prayer and by some Jews at all times. Some consider a kippah to be a reminder, much like a wedding ring, that we are not to stray into inappropriate thoughts and activities. In addition, it is a recognizable symbol of our Jewish faith to other members of the world community.
Answer 1   The custom of wearing a kippah, or yarmulke, is very old, and its  origins are lost to time, but today it is generally associated with  the idea of reminding … the wearer of God's eternal presence, and/or  creating a slight separation between the wearer and God. There is no Jewish law requiring the weari … ng of a kippah, but it is  a very strongly followed custom.    Answer:   Jewish males cover their heads with a kippa and/or a hat, as a  reminder of the presence of God. Not wearing a kippah (yarmulkah)  would be seen as a mark of impertinence
Report Abuse. A yarmulke or kippah (Hebrew) is simply one kind of head covering that Jewish man (and sometimes women) can wear. It signifies one's devotion to God, and an awareness of God at all times. Very traditional Jewish women cover their hair, but that is a question of modesty, rather than directly out of respect for God. Many people who are not Jewish but who visit a synagogue wear yarmulkes, just as one would not wear shoes in a mosque, or as a woman might once have covered her head in a Catholic church. It's custom and tradition. There IS no commandment to cover the head for men.