Step 3: Obtaining the modem update. If your modem came with your computer, go to your computer manufacturer's site. Look for modem updates in the Support, Download or Drivers section. If you are unable to find modem updates on your computer manufacturer's site, contact them via e-mail or phone for the location of the modem updates. Whatever the reason, the first thing to do is obtain updated drivers and/or software and/or firmware for your modem to try to improve its performance. Typically, the drivers, software or firmware for your modem that comes with the modem or with Windows will be out of date. Thus, updates are essential to using the Internet. Modem updates are very important if you own a software-based modem
In my opinion, this is the most significant flaw of the SBG6580, and of Motorola modems in general, also the single best reason to AVOID Motorola modems altogether. You cannot update the firmware yourself, you must call your internet provider. Firmware updates are infrequent, but can make all the difference between a properly functioning modem and a glitchy one, and are incredibly simple to perform; one-click download update, one-click install update. Not with a Motorola. Here are the steps to update the firmware on a Motorola (with Comcast): 1  Call Comcast customer service. 2  Tell customer service representative your modem is constantly dropping a signal and that you believe it needs a firmware update
Instructions. Plug the cable modem into your computer’s USB port. Reboot your computer if it does not recognize your Motorola modem. Your computer will ask for a software disc. Insert the Motorola software disc into your computer. Click the “Next” button on the screen. The computer will search for upgrades and updates. Click on the upgrade you need for your modem. Click the “Next” button to install the upgrade. It may take several minutes.
Motorola and your service provider have agreed that the provider will be responsible for firmware upgrades. WARNING: Should the owner attempt to use the modem on an Internet Service Provider network other than the one it was designed for, the modem is automatically disqualified for firmware updates. ModelsCurrent Firmware VersionFirmware Updates2247-N8-10NA9.0.1h2d9Firmware Updates. Before upgrading the firmware, make sure to download the correct firmware version for the Motorola Gateway. This documentation provides information on verifying the model number and downloading the correct firmware file.
For example: 2210-02-10NA. Refer to the Motorola Firmware Matrix to download the appropriate firmware. Provider Specific Models The models in the table below are provider-specific products. The modem and firmware have been tested and approved to work with a specific DSL provider. ModelsCurrent Firmware VersionFirmware Updates2247-N8-10NA9.0.1h2d9Firmware Updates. Before upgrading the firmware, make sure to download the correct firmware version for the Motorola Gateway. This documentation provides information on verifying the model number and downloading the correct firmware file.
Tips to update firmware. If you come across any problems with the modem, you can update its firmware. In order to update the modem, you have to download the latest firmware in to the computer. After that you have connect the modem with the computer. Then open Internet browser and then access the modem settings. After that you have to click on update the modem and then enter modem access code. Then restart the modem to update the firmware. iYogi’s Annual Unlimited Subscription Plan. iYogi is the fastest growing online and remote tech support provider in the direct-to-consumers and small businesses sector. You have to flash and update the modem firmware according to the needs. Following points explain about firmware and methods to flash and update the firmware on Motorola modem: 1  Firmware. 2  Firmware flashing.
Motorola SB6141 - outdated firmware causing slow/inter mittent connectivi ty. ‎10-19-2013 01:10 PM-edited ‎10-19-2013 01:13 PM. If you're having problems connecting to TWC with your own Motorola SB6141 cable modem, it could be becuase your modem firmware is outdated. You can check your firmware by going to http://192.168.100.1. The outdated firmware is 1.0.6.3. The newer firmware-which should now ship with new SB6141 purchases-is 1.0.6.8. Read this Amazon review for more details: http://www.amazon.com/review/R20A2191QM3WVX/ref=cm _cr_pr_viewpnt#R20A2191QM3WVX.