Clean the Sores Carefully – Cleaning the sores can also prevent some itching. When the sore is open, those with herpes are also at risk for infection, and infection can cause a fairly severe itch. Dirty wounds may also cause itching from herpes, so general care of your wound is important. 
If the cause of your itching isn’t something serious, you may be able to prevent it by making a few lifestyle changes. Here are a few tips on how you can prevent itchy skin in the future: 1  Avoid skin irritants – This includes fragrances, dyes and other chemicals that may cause an allergic reaction. If the itching is severe, you may want to use a hydrocortisone cream or take an antihistamine to help stop the itching. For more remedies, see: Best Home Remedies For Itchy Skin.
Other Causes of Itching in Cats. 1  Pyoderma is an infection of the skin that can be quite pruritic. 2  Pyoderma can be superficial or deep and is often secondary to another skin disease. 3  Ear infection, otitis, can cause significant itching of the head. 1 Ear mites cause itching of the ears in cats and can sometimes cause itching elsewhere on the body. 2  Notoedric mange is a contagious, itchy skin disease of cats caused by a mite closely related to Sarcoptes. 3  This is a highly contagious disease in cats that is spread by direct contact
1.Use the milk method. Pour milk right on the part that is itching with the fiberglass. 2.Try cortisone cream. Rub on some cortisone cream. This comes under various names such as Cortaid. You might need a script for it, depending on where you live. 3.Take a cold shower and use cheap hair conditioner to rub on your skin. In rinsing off of the conditioner, you will remove up to 98% of the fiberglass.
Many things can make your skin itch. Dry skin, eczema, and hives can cause itching all over your body. Contact dermatitis is another cause of all-over itching. You can get this condition after your skin comes in contact with something that irritates it, such as a strong laundry soap or a body lotion. You might feel itchy in only a few parts of your body. Always put the moisturizer on right after you wash or bathe. If you have very dry hands, put petroleum jelly on them before you go to bed at night and sleep with your hands in cotton-lined gloves. Changing your bathing habits also can help. If you bathe too often, your skin may get dry.
Dry Skin and Itching-Cause. Dry skin is a common problem that can occur at any age. When you have dry skin, your skin may be rough, or scaly or flaky, and it may itch. There are many causes of dry skin. As you age, your skin produces less of the natural oil that helps your skin keep its moisture. Dry indoor air can cause your skin to become dry. 
Pruritus can be caused by many conditions. One common cause of itch is psychological, that is, due to stress, anxiety, or other emotional problems. Stress also can aggravate itch from other causes. Dry skin (xerosis) is perhaps the most frequent cause of itch without a rash. 
A Dr. Roger Saldana, MD, Orthopedic Surgery, answered on behalf of Baptist Health South Florida. It can be difficult when the skin under your cast itches. However, do not try to scratch the skin underneath your cast with any sharp objects; it can cause a scratch or an abrasion on your skin and lead to an infection. Do not put any powders or lotions inside your cast. 