(June 2012). An amicus curiae (literally, friend of the court; plural, amici curiae) is someone who is not a party to a case and offers information that bears on the case, but who has not been solicited by any of the parties to assist a court. 
amicus curiae. A Latin phrase meaning friend of the court, used to mean a person who advises a court but is not involved in the particular litigation. amicus curiae-an adviser to the court on some matter of law who is not a party to the case; usually someone who wants to influence the outcome of a lawsuit involving matters of wide public interest. friend of the court.
Amicus Curiae. Literally, friend of the court. A person with strong interest in or views on the subject matter of an action, but not a party to the action, may petition the court for permission to file a brief, ostensibly on behalf of a party but actually to suggest a rationale consistent with its own views. 
Noun. 1. amicus curiae-an adviser to the court on some matter of law who is not a party to the case; usually someone who wants to influence the outcome of a lawsuit involving matters of wide public interest. friend of the court.
Amicus Curiae. Latin for friend of the court.. Frequently, a person or group who is not a party to a lawsuit, but has a strong interest in the matter, will petition the court for permission to submit a brief in the action with the intent of influencing the court's decision. See, e.g. 
Definition of AMICUS CURIAE. : one (as a professional person or organization) that is not a party to a particular litigation but that is permitted by the court to advise it in respect to some matter of law that directly affects the case in question. 
Brief for an Amicus Curiae. 1  1. 2  An amicus curiae brief that brings to the attention of the Court relevant matter not already brought to its attention by the parties may be of considerable help to the Court. 3  An amicus curiae brief that does not serve this purpose burdens the Court, and its filing is not favored. Rule 37. 1  1. 2  An amicus curiae brief that brings to the attention of the Court relevant matter not already brought to its attention by the parties may be of considerable help to the Court. 3  An amicus curiae brief that does not serve this purpose burdens the Court, and its filing is not favored.
amicus curiae. A Latin phrase meaning friend of the court, used to mean a person who advises a court but is not involved in the particular litigation. 
when and how briefs are filed. 1  First, one must obtain permission of the court to submit an amicus brief, which is routinely granted. 2  Second, after permission is obtained, the brief is submitted. 