Florence fennel is a cool-weather perennial grown as an annual. Fennel can be sown in the garden as early as 2 to 3 weeks before the average last frost date in spring. Florence fennel, which is grown for its bulbous stalk, requires 90 to 115 frost-free days to reach harvest. For an autumn crops sow fennel in mid-to late-summer. Description. Fennel’s bulbous stalk can be harvested when it is 3 inches or more in diameter. Cut the whole stalk like celery just below the point where individual stalks join together. Cut leaves as needed once they have reached 18 inches tall. Florence fennel will be ready for harvest 90 to 115 days after sowing.
Heap some earth around the swollen base for ten days and then harvest. If you are growing Florence fennel for seed, you just need to wait through the summer. The vegetable will produce flowers in umbels which will dry out and hold seed. Cut off the spent flower heads and shake the seed out into a container.
Florence Fennel (Foeniculum vulgare var. azoricum). This is the type of fennel to grow if you want to harvest the bulbous stems to use as a vegetable. The leaves and seeds of this variety are also edible, so you get three uses in one plant.‘ 1 Solaris’ produces large semi-flat bulbs that are resistant to bolting.here are two types of fennel that you may want to grow in your garden, depending on how you plan to use it. 'Florence Fennel' is used more like a vegetable and is grown for its bulbous stem. Herb fennel, doesn't really produce much of a bulb, and it is typically grown for its foliage and used like an herb.
The plant is also attractive and growing Florence fennel among perennials or flowers adds a lovely accent with its delicate foliage. Florence fennel produces attractive, green feathery foliage that provides ornamental interest in the garden. The foliage releases a scent reminiscent of anise or licorice. The plant is a perennial and has a tendency to spread and can become invasive if you don’t remove the seed head. Florence fennel grows best in cooler climates and temperate regions. Begin harvesting fennel stalks when they are nearly ready to flower. Cut them off to the ground and use them like celery.eap some earth around the swollen base for ten days and then harvest. If you are growing Florence fennel for seed, you just need to wait through the summer. The vegetable will produce flowers in umbels which will dry out and hold seed. Cut off the spent flower heads and shake the seed out into a container.
There are two types of fennel that you may want to grow in your garden, depending on how you plan to use it. 'Florence Fennel' is used more like a vegetable and is grown for its bulbous stem. Herb fennel, doesn't really produce much of a bulb, and it is typically grown for its foliage and used like an herb.
While wild fennel is grow for its leaf and seed production, Florence fennel is a shorter plant that forms a bulbous stem at the ground level. This stem has a mild licorice flavor, great crunch and a sweet taste. I often chop it up and to make a raw salad with olive oil and balsamic vinegar.he longer you can keep the soil and air cool and moist, the larger the potential bulb will grow. Fennel can take up to 3 months to be ready for harvest. Keep the bed weed free and watered regularly. Be careful not to disturb the roots or it will stimulate the plant to bolt early.
Fennel is best eaten fresh. Florence fennel will keep in the refrigerator up to 1 week or in a cold moist place for 2 to 3 months. Stalks can be frozen or dried. Fennel leaves can be frozen or dried as herbs; dried leaves should be kept in an airtight container. Common name.ennel’s bulbous stalk can be harvested when it is 3 inches or more in diameter. Cut the whole stalk like celery just below the point where individual stalks join together. Cut leaves as needed once they have reached 18 inches tall. Florence fennel will be ready for harvest 90 to 115 days after sowing.
Purchase the Seeds. Florence fennel is grown for its bulblike stalk, while regular fennel is grown solely for its herby foliage. Both the bulb and the edible foliage of Florence fennel have a sweet, licorice-like flavor. The seed is sometimes sold as sweet fennel or under its Italian name finocchio.arvest Sweet Florence Fennel. When the fennel is about 12 tall, begin harvesting some of the feathery foliage to use as an herb. Once the swollen bulb is about 3 to 4 wide, it is ready to harvest. View original photo.
Florence fennel, a wonderfully ornamental vegetable, is grown for its swollen leaf bases or ‘bulbs’ and edible leaves. When using in salads, the flavour can be improved by slicing the bulb and putting it in a bowl of water and ice cubes in the fridge for an hour.