Resistance to vancomycin in E. faecalis is becoming more common. Treatment options for vancomycin-resistant E. faecalis include nitrofurantoin (in the case of uncomplicated UTIs), linezolid, and daptomycin, although ampicillin is preferred if the bacteria are susceptible. E. faecalis is resistant to many commonly used antimicrobial agents (aminoglycosides, aztreonam, cephalosporins, clindamycin, the semisynthetic penicillins nafcillin and oxacillin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole).
There are the two types of vancomycin resistance in enterococci. The first type is intrinsic resistance. Isolates of Enterococcus gallinarum and E. casseliflavus/E. flavescens demonstrate an inherent, low-level resistance to vancomycin. The second type of vancomycin resistance in enterococci is acquired resistance. Enterococci can become resistant to vancomycin by acquisition of genetic information from another organism. Most commonly, this resistance is seen in E. faecium and E. faecalis, but also has been recognized in E. raffinosus, E. avium, E. durans, and several other enterococcal species.
Not to be confused with Enterococcus faecium. Enterococcus faecalis – formerly classified as part of the group D Streptococcus system – is a Gram-positive, commensal bacterium inhabiting the gastrointestinal tracts of humans and other mammals. E. faecalis is resistant to many commonly used antimicrobial agents (aminoglycosides, aztreonam, cephalosporins, clindamycin, the semisynthetic penicillins nafcillin and oxacillin, and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole).
Bile salts are the selective ingredient, while esculin is the differential component. Enterococcus hydrolyze esculin to products that react with ferric citrate in the medium to produce insoluble iron salts, resulting in the blackening of the medium. Bile Esculin Agar is used primarily to differentiate Enterococcus from Streptococcus. Members of the genus Enterococcus are capable of growing in the presence of 4% bile (oxgall) and hydrolyzing esculin to glucose and esculetin.
The most common infection caused by Enterococci is infection of the urinary tract. E. faecalis can cause lower urinary tract infections (UTI), such as cystisis, prostatitis, and epididymitis (8). E. faecalis are also found in intra-abdominal, pelvic, and soft tissue infections. 1.) Hope for infections caused by Enterococcus faecalis (4). It is known that vancomycin-resistant bacteria (e.g. E. faecalis) pose many problems to society, causing bacterial infections in humans that are difficult to treat.
Of note, quinupristin/dalfopristin is useful only for infections caused by E. faecium, as E. faecalis is intrinsically resistant to this combination. E. faecalis used to account for 80-90% of the clinical isolates of enterococcus, with E. faecium accounting for only 5-10% and various minor species making up the rest. More recent evidence suggests that the prevalence of E. faecium is increasing, particularly the vancomycin-resistant strain. Enterococci are not fastidious organisms and as such, can be found in soil, food, water, plants, animals, birds and insects. The major habitat in humans is the GI tract, where they make up a significant portion of normal aerobic gut flora.
Prevalence and antibiotic resistance patterns of E. faecalis and E. faecium isolates from produce. The distribution of produce samples and Enterococcus species is shown in Table 1. Mustard greens, parsley, and cantaloupe represented nearly 70% (208 of 304) of the total produce items collected. At least one Enterococcus strain was isolated from over half of these samples. Among the 185 Enterococcus isolates obtained from all of the samples, a total of 97 (52%) were E. faecium, 38 (21%) were E. faecalis, and 50 (27%) were other Enterococcus species.
Among several phenotypes for vancomycin-resistant enterococci, VanA (resistance to vancomycin and teicoplanin) and VanB (resistance to vancomycin alone) are most common (22) . In the United States, VanA and VanB account for approximately 60% and 40% of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) isolates, respectively (23) . Abstract. Enterococci, leading causes of nosocomial bacteremia, surgical wound infection, and urinary tract infection, are becoming resistant to many and sometimes all standard therapies. New rapid surveillance methods are highlighting the importance of examining enterococcal isolates at the species level.