The language Dutch is older then the Netherlands itself, in the middle ages it was spoken in a big area of northwest Europe, including parts of northern France, west north Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and even areas in England. I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
“Low Dutch” referred to people from the flatlands in what is now the Netherlands. Within the Holy Roman Empire, the word “Netherlands” was used to describe people from the low-lying (nether) region (land). I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
As did many European ethnicities during the 19th century, the Dutch also saw the emerging of various Greater Netherlands-and pan-movements seeking to unite the Dutch-speaking peoples across the continent. During the first half of the 20th century, there was a prolific surge in writings concerning the subject. The origins of the word Dutch go back to Proto-Germanic, the ancestor of all Germanic languages, *theudo (meaning national/popular); akin to Old Dutch dietsc, Old High German diutsch, Old English þeodisc and Gothic þiuda all meaning (of) the common (Germanic) people.
(At that point in time, in the early 1500s, the Netherlands and parts of Germany, along with Belgium and Luxembourg, were all part of the Holy Roman Empire.) Specifically the phrase “High Dutch” referred to people from the mountainous area of what is now southern Germany. I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
The Dutch (Dutch: Nederlanders (help·info)), occasionally referred to as Netherlanders, a term that is cognate to the Dutch word for Dutch people, Nederlanders are a Germanic ethnic group native to the Netherlands. They share a common culture and speak the Dutch language. Dutch people and their descendants are found in migrant communities worldwide, notably in Suriname, Curacao, Curaçao, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Australia South, Africa New, zealand and The United. states The origins of the word Dutch go back to Proto-Germanic, the ancestor of all Germanic languages, *theudo (meaning national/popular); akin to Old Dutch dietsc, Old High German diutsch, Old English þeodisc and Gothic þiuda all meaning (of) the common (Germanic) people.
The Pennsylvania Dutch (Pennsilfaanisch Deitsch) are a cultural group formed by early German-speaking immigrants to Pennsylvania and their descendants. This early wave of settlers, which would eventually coalesce to form the Pennsylvania Dutch, began in the late 17th century and concluded in the late 18th century. The Pennsylvania Dutch live primarily in Southeastern and South Central Pennsylvania in the area stretching in an arc from Bethlehem and Allentown through Reading, Lebanon, and Lancaster to York and Chambersburg.
In Old English dutch simply meant “people or nation.” (This also explains why Germany is called Deutschland in German.) Over time, English-speaking people used the word Dutch to describe people from both the Netherlands and Germany. I am Dutch, grew up in The Hague which is in South Holland and believe me, people in the Netherlands don’t like to be called “Hollanders” if not from North or South Holland. In 1815 we became a kingdom and before that we were a republic.
The phrase going Dutch probably originates from Dutch etiquette. In the Netherlands, it is not unusual to pay separately when dating. English rivalry with The Netherlands especially during the period of the Anglo-Dutch Wars gave rise to several phrases including Dutch that promote certain negative stereotypes. Examples include Dutch courage, Dutch uncle and Dutch wife. The particular stereotype associated with this usage is the idea of Dutch people as ungregarious and selfish. In Spain, going Dutch is attributed to Catalans, due to a stereotype that they are greedy.
The Dutch are the people who live in the Netherlands, or those that come from the Netherlands. Often the Netherlands is called Holland, but this is only part of the Netherlands. The Dutch culture and ethnicity are also found outside of the Netherlands, with large number of Dutch living in the United States of America, South Africa, Suriname, Namibia.
We are the sons and daughters of the Pennsylvania Dutch. Some were Brethren, Reformed, Lutheran, Mennonite, Amish, Catholic or of other faiths or a very few of no faith at all. They came to America from Switzerland, Germany, and the eastern parts of France or wherever the German language was spoken before 1800. 