Use A Soil Thermometer. For cool season vegetables and for warm season vegetables, one of the best tools you can own is soil thermometer, because soil temperature is the best indicator of when to plant each type of vegetable, no matter what climate zone you live in.
The second sign for knowing when do you plant tomatoes is the temperature of the soil that you plant to grow your tomatoes in. Ideally, the soil temperature for the best time for planting tomatoes is 60 F. (16 C.). A quick and easy way to tell if the soil is warm enough for planting tomato plants is to thrust a finger in the soil. If you cannot keep your finger all the way in the soil for a full minute without feeling uncomfortable, the soil is most likely too cold for planting tomatoes. Of course, a soil thermometer helps too.
Setting out plants Set tomatoes in the garden when the weather has warmed and soil temperatures are above 60 degrees F. Temperatures below 50 degrees F impair tomato growth. In southern Missouri, plant tomatoes outside from April 20 to May 15. Add a complete garden fertilizer at the time the soil is prepared. For tomatoes, use a fertilizer low in nitrogen (N), high in phosphorous (P) and medium to high in potassium (K). Among the best analyses for tomatoes are 8-32-16 and 6-24-24.
But the magic is not associated with them being in the ground versus being in a planter, it's in the soil temperature. Tomato roots will not grow or provide nutrients to the plant at soil temperatures of 50°F or below. Researchers have found that the ideal root temperature for tomatoes is 70°F. 1 Before planting, put black or red plastic over the soil to pre-heat the soil, warm it up faster. 2  Plant tomatoes when the soil temperature is above 55°F (how do I find that out?) and the air temperature does not go below 45 degrees at night.
Planted in containers tomatoes require the most soil you can provide and good drainage. Planting time. Tomatoes grow best when the day temperature is between 65° and 85°F. Tomatoes will not grow in soil cooler than 55°F and tomato flowers will not set if the air temperature goes below 55°F. Grow tomatoes in full sun. Tomatoes require warm, well-drained but moisture retentive soil rich in organic matter. Tomatoes will produce earlier in light, sandy soil, but the yield will be greater in heavier, loamy soil. Add aged compost to planting beds in advance of planting.
But soil temperatures that exceed 95 degrees Fahrenheit by approximately 10 a.m. are too extreme for even the established tomato plant, states Colorado State University Extension. If the plant has flowered, the blossoms drop at this high temperature. Low Temperatures. Cool soil temperatures affect the tomato plant negatively, especially if they persist for more than a week. Temperatures dipping below 55 degrees Fahrenheit stops both pollen production and overall plant growth. As a result, you see visible stunting to both foliage and fruits, if the plant produces fruits at all
Tomatoes are a warm-season annual that grow best when the soil temperature is at least 55°F and the air temperature ranges between 65° and 90°F. Tomatoes require from 50 to more than 90 warm, frost-free days to reach harvest. Tomatoes are commonly grown from seedlings started indoors and transplanted into the garden. Grow tomatoes in full sun. Tomatoes require warm, well-drained but moisture retentive soil rich in organic matter. Tomatoes will produce earlier in light, sandy soil, but the yield will be greater in heavier, loamy soil. Add aged compost to planting beds in advance of planting.
Warm soil stimulates tomato seeds to germinate faster than cooler earth. In fact, Organic Gardening reports that a 10-degree window between 75 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit is the best temperature range for successful germination in just one week. Low Temperatures. Cool soil temperatures affect the tomato plant negatively, especially if they persist for more than a week. Temperatures dipping below 55 degrees Fahrenheit stops both pollen production and overall plant growth. As a result, you see visible stunting to both foliage and fruits, if the plant produces fruits at all