Overview. Spanish moss, Tillandsia usneoides, isn't moss at all. It's a massive colony of tiny green blooming plants related to bromeliads. Think of it as being kind of like a coral reef hanging from your oak tree. Contrary to a common belief, Spanish moss isn't parasitic, either. 
Growing Spanish Moss. Spanish moss is a native, perennial epiphytic herb. It is not Spanish, nor a moss, but a flowering plant. The slender, wiry, long, branching stems (reaching over 20ft) grow as suspended, bluish-gray streamers and garlands draping among tree branches and sometimes telephone lines and fences.
Spanish moss is an epiphyte which absorbs nutrients (especially calcium) and water from the air and rainfall. Spanish moss is colloquially known as air plant. While it rarely kills the trees, it lowers their growth rate by reducing the amount of light to a tree's own leaves. In the desert regions of the southwestern United States, dried Spanish moss plants are used in the manufacture of evaporative coolers, colloquially known as swamp coolers. These are used to cool homes and offices much less expensively than using air conditioners.
Tillandsia usneoides (Spanish moss). Spanish moss is a superb 'air plant' which grows in silverish festoons up to 30 m long, hanging from tree limbs, cliffs and even telephone wires.
Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides) is one of the most misunderstood plants found throughout the Deep South. To native South Carolinians, these gray strands draping from the branches of live oaks and other trees are a natural part of the scenery, while many newcomers fear that it may be killing their trees. 
Despite its name, Spanish moss is not a moss but a bromeliad—a perennial herb in the pineapple family. Most bromeliads, including Spanish moss, are epiphytes. Epiphytes grow on other plants, but do not rely on them for nutrients. They take nutrients from the air and debris that collects on the plant. Spanish moss has permeable scales that “catch” moisture and nutrients. Spanish moss prefers moist environments, but its ability to trap water lets it survive dry periods.
Spanish moss often harbors insects that can infest your house and plants. Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides), an iconic fixture in trees throughout the southeastern United States, is hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 through 11. Pull the Spanish moss from the trees using your hands for lower branches or a bow rake to access moss in higher branches. Wear gloves, long sleeves and pants when harvesting and working with the moss so common insects found in Spanish moss, such as chiggers, don't irritate your skin.
Leaves are retained year to year. The Spanish Moss (Usneoides) has a moderate life span relative to most other plant species and a slow growth rate. The Spanish Moss (Usneoides) is not commonly available from nurseries, garden stores and other plant dealers and distributors. It can be propagated by cuttings, seed. It has a moderate ability to spread through seed production and the seedlings have medium vigor. 
Spanish moss is actually not a moss, but a rootless bromeliad air plant that gets nutrients and moisture from the air. Spanish moss works well as mulch around house plants, but you must clean the moss to rid it of insects. Pull the Spanish moss from the trees using your hands for lower branches or a bow rake to access moss in higher branches. Wear gloves, long sleeves and pants when harvesting and working with the moss so common insects found in Spanish moss, such as chiggers, don't irritate your skin.
Spanish moss is a native, perennial epiphytic herb. It is not Spanish, nor a moss, but a flowering plant. The slender, wiry, long, branching stems (reaching 8m or more) grow as suspended, bluish-gray streamers and garlands draping among tree branches and sometimes telephone lines and fences. It is said to be excellent mulch for the garden. Spanish moss is grown commercially for use as packing material and as a replacement for horsehair in upholstery and mattress stuffing. Campers, because of red bugs and chiggers do not recommend the plants for use as bedding.