A lower-space vector requires less storage space, so the data is compressed. Due to the density matching property of vector quantization, the compressed data has errors that are inversely proportional to density. The transformation is usually done by projection or by using a codebook. Vector quantization (VQ) is a classical quantization technique from signal processing that allows the modeling of probability density functions by the distribution of prototype vectors. It was originally used for data compression.
Vector quantization, also called block quantization or pattern matching quantization is often used in lossy data compression. It works by encoding values from a multidimensional vector space into a finite set of values from a discrete subspace of lower dimension. Vector quantization (VQ) is a classical quantization technique from signal processing that allows the modeling of probability density functions by the distribution of prototype vectors. It was originally used for data compression.
4.2.4.3 Inverse Quantization/DWT. The following sections present the three-level inverse DWT of the Y component data. The inverse DWT process follows the steps shown in the figure illustrating three-level DWT decomposition in section 3.1.8.1.4, in reverse order. 
The inverse color map must be performed efficiently. We provide two methods of color quantization, both of which yield efficient (in space and computation) methods for generating the colormap index from the RGB pixel value. One or more of the cubes has already been selected as a CTE. None of the cubes is already a CTE or has enough pixels to become a CTE. In both the first and second cases, the octcube at the next level up automatically becomes a CTE, which contains those pixels that are not in a subcube that already is a CTE.
Each group is represented by its centroid point, as in k-means and some other clustering algorithms. The density matching property of vector quantization is powerful, especially for identifying the density of large and high-dimensioned data. Vector quantization (VQ) is a classical quantization technique from signal processing that allows the modeling of probability density functions by the distribution of prototype vectors. It was originally used for data compression.
bNewQmatrix. Indicates which new inverse-quantization matrices are present in an inverse-quantization matrix buffer. Each element in this array corresponds to an inverse-quantization matrix type and indicates whether a new inverse-quantization matrix of that type is present in the buffer. The DXVA_QmatrixData structure is sent by the host decoder to the accelerator to load inverse-quantization matrix data for off-host bitstream compressed video picture decoding.
This model is extremely powerful, because the random noise generated by quantization will simply add to whatever noise is already present in the. analog signal. For example, imagine an analog signal with a maximum amplitude of 1.0 volts, and a random noise of 1.0 millivolts rms. 
DXVA_QmatrixData structure. The DXVA_QmatrixData structure is sent by the host decoder to the accelerator to load inverse-quantization matrix data for off-host bitstream compressed video picture decoding.