Ball-and-stick model of cimetidine, the prototypical H 2 -receptor antagonist. The H2 receptor antagonists are a class of drugs used to block the action of histamine on parietal cells (specifically the histamine H2 receptors) in the stomach, decreasing the production of acid by these cells. The H 2 antagonists are competitive antagonists of histamine at the parietal cell H 2 receptor. They suppress the normal secretion of acid by parietal cells and the meal-stimulated secretion of acid.
Antihistamines that target the histamine H1-receptor are used to treat allergic reactions in the nose (e.g., itching, runny nose, and sneezing) as well as for insomnia. An antihistamine is a type of pharmaceutical drug that opposes the activity of histamine receptors in the body. Antihistamines are subclassified according to the histamine receptor that they act upon: the two largest classes of antihistamines are H1-antihistamines and H2-antihistamines
The selective histamine type 2 receptor antagonists/blockers (H2 blockers) are widely used in the treatment of acid-peptic disease, including duodenal and gastric ulcers, gastroesophageal reflux disease and common heartburn. The selectivity of H2 blockers is of key importance, as they have little or no effect on the histamine type 1 receptors, which are blocked by typical antihistamines that are used to treat allergic reactions and have little effect on gastric acid production.
Histamine H2-receptor antagonists, also known as H2-blockers, are used to treat duodenal ulcers and prevent their return. They are also used to treat gastric ulcers and for some conditions, such as Zollinger-Ellison disease, in which the stomach produces too much acid. In over-the-counter (OTC) strengths, these medicines are used to relieve and/or prevent heartburn, acid indigestion, and sour stomach. H2-blockers may also be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. H2-blockers work by decreasing the amount of acid produced by the stomach. H2-blockers are available both over-the-counter (OTC) and with your doctor's prescriptio
The H2 receptor blockers act by binding to histamine type 2 receptors on the basolateral (antiluminal) surface of gastric parietal cells, interfering with pathways of gastric acid production and secretion. The selectivity of H2 blockers is of key importance, as they have little or no effect on the histamine type 1 receptors, which are blocked by typical antihistamines that are used to treat allergic reactions and have little effect on gastric acid production.
Histamine plays an important role in a variety of pathophysiological conditions. In allergic conditions, histamine is released from basophils and mast cells and is responsible for symptoms of allergic conditions of the skin and airways. In the gastric mucosa, gastric induced histamine release stimulates parietal cells to secrete gastric acid. 
Most people who take H2 blockers do not develop any side-effects. H2 blockers are a group of medicines that reduce the amount of acid produced by the cells in the lining of the stomach. They are also called 'histamine H2-receptor antagonists' but are commonly called H2 blockers. What H2 blockers do is stop the acid-making cells in the stomach lining from responding to histamine. This reduces the amount of acid produced by your stomach. By decreasing the amount of acid, H2 blockers can help to reduce acid reflux-related symptoms such as heartburn.
H 1 -antihistamines work by binding to histamine H1 receptors in mast cells, smooth muscle, and endothelium in the body as well as in the tuberomammillary nucleus in the brain; H 2 -antihistamines bind to histamine H2 receptors in the upper gastrointestinal tract, primarily in the stomach. An antihistamine is a type of pharmaceutical drug that opposes the activity of histamine receptors in the body. Antihistamines are subclassified according to the histamine receptor that they act upon: the two largest classes of antihistamines are H1-antihistamines and H2-antihistamines