Part of the Business terms glossary: A fiscal year is the twelve-month period that an organization uses for budgeting, forecasting and reporting. Although many organizations follow the calendar year, a fiscal year can start at any point in the year and end 12 months later. Fiscal years are identified according to the year in which they end. Usually a fiscal year begins on the first day of the beginning month and ends on the last day of the 12 th month. However, some companies choose to have fiscal years that comprise only full weeks and end on a particular day of the week.
Definition. A 12-month period over which a company budgets its spending. A fiscal year does not always begin in January and end in December; it may run over any period of 12 months. The fiscal year is referred to by the date in which it ends. 
Types of Fiscal Calendars. Although a fiscal year may be 365 days and each quarter three calendar months, making each fiscal month a calendar month, an entity may find another fiscal calendar is superior for its needs. 
Fiscal Year. An accounting year ending on the last day of any month except December, or a 52-53 week tax year, which is a year that ends on the same day of the week (for example, the last Thursday of the month or on the Thursday that is closest to the end of the month). 
Fiscal Calendar Restrictions. A fiscal year is normally 12 months. The IRS allows a shortened fiscal year in only two circumstances. One is if the company is new and hasn’t been in business for a full year when it files its first tax return. The second exception is if a company elects to change its fiscal year. A 53rd Week. When a business sets up fiscal months with only complete seven-day weeks, a problem arises. There is an extra day left over at the end of each year and two days in leap years.
DEFINITION of 'Fiscal Year-FY'. A period that a company or government uses for accounting purposes and preparing financial statements. The fiscal year may or may not be the same as a calendar year. For tax purposes, companies can choose to be calendar-year taxpayers or fiscal-year taxpayers. 
Structure of the Fiscal Calendar. Fiscal months are placed into a year in four equal quarters. Each quarter is made up of three months. The first month of every quarter always has five fiscal weeks while the other two have four. Every fiscal week starts on the same day, often Monday, and ends on Sunday. 
Why it Matters: The key thing to remember is that a fiscal year doesn't necessarily correspond with the calendar year. Although it may not seem like very important, when a company starts its fiscal year can have an impact on its fundamental analysis. What it is: A fiscal year is an accounting period of 365(6) days that does not necessarily correspond to the calendar year beginning on January 1st. The fiscal year is the established period of time when an organization's annual financial records commence and conclude.
Fiscal Year. In finance, a fiscal year is a 12-month period that ends on the last day of any month except December. A fiscal year may end on April 30, for instance. 