Whitefish or white fish is a fisheries term referring to several species of demersal fish with fins, particularly cod (Gadus morhua), Caspian kutum (Rutilus kutum), whiting (Merluccius bilinearis), and haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus), but also hake (Urophycis), pollock (Pollachius), or others. Whitefish (Coregonidae) is also the name of several species of Atlantic freshwater fish, so the use of the two-word term 'white fish' is less misleading. White fish live on or near the seafloor, and can be contrasted with the oily or pelagic fish which live in the water column away from the seafloor
Processed sugar and white flour are at the top of any list of inflammatory foods – foods that cause inflammation ... And don't just look for sugar or syrup on ingredient lists. ... Foods on the list of anti-inflammatories include: olive oil, wild-caught cold-water fish (salmon, halibut, herring ... The fix: Check the Canadian Medical Association's list of drugs that interact with grapefruit ... High–glycemic foods such as white bread, bagels, soda and instant mashed potatoes cause ... glycemic foods, such as scrambled eggs, nuts, berries, green salads and fish, Ebbeling says. ...
Randy Mayor. Fish can be categorized many ways; for example, Mark Bittman, author of How to Cook Everything, divides fish into 11 categories. For simplicity’s sake, we have identified five. Generally, you can substitute any fish within one category for another, although you’ll notice differences in taste. 
White-fleshed fish, in particular, is lower in fat than any other source of animal protein, and oily fish are high in omega-3 fatty acids, or the good fats. Since the human body can’t make significant amounts of these essential nutrients, fish are an important part of the diet. 
1 Whitefish (fisheries term) , a fisheries term referring to the flesh of many types of fish. 
White fish with information on vitamins, minerals, fat, oils and toxins. Although the focus of late has been on oily fish and omega-3 essential fatty oils in particular, that does not mean to say that we should completely forget about other types of fish altogether. Cooking methods for white fish. advertisement. As white fish contain less fat within, it may dry out when prepared using certain cooking methods. When grilling or baking white fish, it is best to marinate it or cook it in a sauce, basting occasionally during the process.
White fish have dry and white flesh. White fish can be divided into benthopelagic fish (round fish which live near the sea bed, such as cod and coley) and benthic fish (which live on the sea bed, such as flatfish like plaice). Whitefish (Coregonidae) is also the name of several species of Atlantic freshwater fish, so the use of the two-word term 'white fish' is less misleading. White fish live on or near the seafloor, and can be contrasted with the oily or pelagic fish which live in the water column away from the seafloor