Insulin then attaches to and signals cells to absorb sugar from the bloodstream. Insulin is often described as a “key,” which unlocks the cell to allow sugar to enter the cell and be used for energy. After you eat, cells in your pancreas are signaled to release insulin into the bloodstream. If you have more sugar in your body than it needs, insulin helps store the sugar in your liver and releases it when your blood sugar level is low or if you need more sugar, such as in between meals or during physical activity. If your body does not produce enough insulin or your cells are resistant to the effects of insulin, you may develop hyperglycemia (high blood sugar), which can cause long-term complications if the blood sugar levels stay elevated for long periods of time.
Use. Some glucose is used for respiration to release energy. Some is used to produce: 1  Cellulose-which strengthens the cell wall. 2  Proteins [protein: Organic compound made up of amino acid molecules. 3  One of the three main food groups, proteins are needed by the body for cell growth and repair. Plants and algae store glucose as insoluble products. These include: 1  Starch [starch: A type of carbohydrate. 2  Plants can turn the glucose produced in photosynthesis into starch for storage, and turn it back into glucose when it is needed for respiration.
Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). If your body does not produce enough insulin or your cells are resistant to the effects of insulin, you may develop hyperglycemia (high blood sugar), which can cause long-term complications if the blood sugar levels stay elevated for long periods of time.
Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Glucose. 
Instead of making their own glucose, animals got it from the plants that they ate. Glucose is the source of energy for all of our body functions, especially the brain. The only energy the brain can use is from glucose. Glucose is also the primary source of energy for muscles, backed up by other sources if it runs out. Proteins, for example, are for building the tissues that use glucose. So, in order to keep glucose levels in the blood in a healthy range, a hormone called “insulin” is produced in a cell called the “Beta Cell” in special areas of the pancreas. The relationship of glucose and insulin is very sensitive, like a really good thermostat.
As a result, some of the glucose is locked out of the cells and builds up in the blood. At the same time, the cells feel the need for more energy, so the pancreas pumps out more insulin to try and move the glucose into the cells. Insulin is a hormone, which is a type of chemical. In the body, insulin is produced in the pancreas. It is needed to allow sugars, or glucose, from food to enter cells. There, glucose is broken down (metabolized) to produce the energy needed for the cells to work properly.
Glucose is an important nutrient molecule that cells rely upon for energy, both as a component of diet and when stored for later use in the form of the carbohydrate molecule glycogen. Sources of Glucose. Any food that contains carbohydrates serves as a source of glucose. Even if the food itself doesn't contain glucose, your body can break down sugar and starch in the foods you eat into glucose and other simple sugars, and can then convert the other simple sugars into glucose.
Best Answer: glucose is a simple sugar that is utilized by the mitochondria to produce energy in the form of ATP. It will provide quick energy over a short period of time. ATP can be stored for later use as starches which will provide energy over a longer period of time. 
Glucose is a common fuel for the body, and all cells use it. Muscle cells and fat cells are relatively efficient at obtaining glucose from the bloodstream, although liver and certain pancreatic cells are even more effective in that regard. Muscles take up glucose because it is one of the best fuels for exercise and is also readily stored.
Function. The function of glucose in the body is an energy molecule. Cells take up glucose absorbed by the digestive tract and either use the glucose or store it for later. While proteins and fat also provide cells with energy, some body cells -- the cells of the brain in particular -- preferentially rely upon glucose, notes Dr. Lauralee Sherwood in her book, Human Physiology.. Further, glucose breaks down into smaller molecules that provide building blocks for many cellular products. Sources of Glucose. Any food that contains carbohydrates serves as a source of glucose. Even if the food itself doesn't contain glucose, your body can break down sugar and starch in the foods you eat into glucose and other simple sugars, and can then convert the other simple sugars into glucose.