Spain is a democracy with a parlimetary government under a constitutional monarchy. The European country of Spain holds the form of government known as  Constitutional … Monarchy. They have monarchs, but they have no  executive role, they are their representatives in formal  ceremonies. In the 1930s, Spain had a parliamentary democracy. It was called the Second Republic. The Second Republic was put in jeopardy by the Spanish Civil War in 1936-1939 and overthr … own at the wars end by the Nationalists under Franco who established a Fascist State.
Government. Spain is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1978. The hereditary monarch, who is the head of state, may ratify laws, dissolve the legislature, and propose candidates for the office of prime minister; he is also head of the armed forces. The prime minister (presidente) is the head of government. 1 Spain: Government-Government Spain is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1978.
Spain is a constitutional monarchy whose government is defined by the Constitution of Spain. This was approved by a general referendum of the people of Spain in 1978. The final interpretation of the Constitution, in the case of dispute, is the business of the Constitutional Court of Spain. 
Spain is a parliamentary monarchy.Spain is a Democratic Monarchy. It has a King, Juan Carlos I, who has very little power and is the Head of State. It has a democratically elected government which in turn elects a Presidente del Gobierno. The President governs the nation and is Head of Government. In the 1930s, Spain had a parliamentary democracy. It was called the Second Republic. The Second Republic was put in jeopardy by the Spanish Civil War in 1936-1939 and overthr … own at the wars end by the Nationalists under Franco who established a Fascist State.
Overview. Spain is a Constitutional Monarchy whose current leader is Chief Executive Mariano Rajoy. The chief executive in Spain typically has a term length of 4 years. Spain's Legislature has 609 seats, and the last legislative elections were in 2015. Type of Government. 
Answers. Best Answer: Spain is a constitutional monarchy organized as a parliamentary democracy, and has been a member of the European Union since 1986. It is a developed country with the ninth largest economy in the world and fifth largest in the EU. 