Rivers: Major rivers of North America. Rocky Mountains: The Rocky Mountains, about 3,000 miles in length, extend from the U.S State of New Mexico up through the western United States and on into the northernmost reaches of Canada's British Columbia. Major mountain ranges include... 1  Absaroka. Mountains of south-central Alaska that extend from the Alaska Peninsula to the border of the Yukon Territory, Canada. The highest point in North America,
Major peaks included Mt. Hood, Mt. Ranier, and Mt. St. Helens. Coast Range: Mountains running along the Pacific Ocean coastlines of California, Oregon, Washington. They also extend along the western border of British Columbia, Canada, and the southern edge of Alaska, all the way to Kenai Peninsula and Kodiak Island. Mountains of south-central Alaska that extend from the Alaska Peninsula to the border of the Yukon Territory, Canada. The highest point in North America,
Mountains, volcanoes, rivers, lakes, valleys, glaciers and deserts are some of the many types of landforms. See Sources and related links for the names of the various classifi … cations and the names of additional landforms. 3 people found this useful. 
List of Major Landforms. There are many landforms that are on the earth’s surface They are actually on other planets as well. One thing is certain there are major landforms that do cover the world that we live on. World Landforms does provide a list of landforms that we see almost everyday like on TV or riding the bus home from school.
Landforms and Definitions List List of Landforms. Alluvial fan: land formation that occurs when sedimentary materials such as rocks, gravel, and silt, are deposited onto land as a result of decreasing or stopped water flow from a river or stream source. Altitude (elevation): the height above sea level. Terrace: a flat area of land like a step on landforms like a mountain, valley or beach. Tide: the regular rising and falling of the water of the oceans and waters connected to the ocean. Upstream: the direction toward a river’s source; opposite to the rivers’ flow. Valley: low land between hills or mountains.
1 Welcome to the wonderful world of Landforms. 2  Here you will learn about the great features that are on the Earth’s surface. 3  There are many types of landforms around the world such as deserts, mountains and archipelagos. One thing is certain there are major landforms that do cover the world that we live on. World Landforms does provide a list of landforms that we see almost everyday like on TV or riding the bus home from school.
These natural physical features on the earth’s surface called as landforms. Landforms are defined as the natural physical features found on the surface of the earth created as a result of various forces of nature such as wind, water, ice, and movement of tectonic plates. Mountains are landforms higher than the surrounding areas. They are formed due to the tectonic movements, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and erosion of the surrounding areas caused due to wind, water and ice. Mountains are found in the oceans and on land.
Mountains, volcanoes, rivers, lakes, valleys, glaciers and deserts are some of the many types of landforms. See Sources and related links for the names of the various classifi … cations and the names of additional landforms. The four major landforms are plateaus, mountains, plains, and  hills.