When I was in the NFL, we would only have three days in the entire month of August completely off. This endless grind is a huge part of what makes training camp such a challenge. Few things in life will ever test one’s attrition like an August in the NFL. NFL training camps have changed over the years, becoming a player-friendly experience...at least that’s what the rules in the latest collective bargaining agreement would lead you to believe. Still, there is plenty of overlap between now and back when I played six years earlier
The average football game is actually longer than the average baseball game. According to The Boston Globe, baseball games average 2 hours, 57 minutes and 33 seconds. This isn't to suggest baseball is inherently more exciting. But one of the contemporary knocks against baseball is its games take too long. The game starts with the first of 10.5 kickoffs. My apologies in advance if you like returns, because 5.7 of those kickoffs will be touchbacks. Of the plays you will see this afternoon, there will be 80.5 passes and 53.1 runs, so I hope you enjoy passing.
The NFL's pension plan pales in comparison to those of other sports leagues. The $51,000 a 10-year NFL veteran would receive in retirement is less than a third of a 10-year Major League Baseball player's pension.The retirement package improves with each re-negotiation of the collective bargaining agreement. 
Comments. NFL training camps have changed over the years, becoming a player-friendly experience...at least that’s what the rules in the latest collective bargaining agreement would lead you to believe. Still, there is plenty of overlap between now and back when I played six years earlier
How long does an NFL player stay on the waiver wire? A player normally stays on the wavier wire for 10 days. If the player was released from another team he will be released into waivers and the rest of the 31 teams will be able … to bid on him. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Well a person usually stay in college three to four years if they plan to enter the nfl draft. But those that are really good stay just for three. So the answer to your question would be three.
The average National Football League player doesn't enjoy a very long career. The number most typically quoted is three years. If you're an NFL fan, this statistic probably leaves you a little confused as you watch your favorite player take the field season after season. Factoring in players' abilities results in an adjusted average NFL career of 6.86 years. This approximate seven-year figure is the result of counting only those players who are actually on team rosters for the opening game of the season in which they're drafted or signed.
It goes up every year that players stay in the NFL. So some veterans will make as much as $800,000. It's a lot of money, but when I talk to guys, I often say, you're only as wealthy as your lifestyle, says Patrick Kerney, a former player who is now the NFL's Vice President of Player Benefits and Legends Operations. 
Approximately: 3 hours and 30 minutes. including commercials, half-time (review scores and highlights in the NFL), stopping the clock, timeouts, official review and injury timeout If it goes to overtime: Approximately an hour more. There are four quarters in the NFL. Each quarter is 15 minutes long. There are 4 15 minute quarters divided in 2 halves. Each team has 3 timeouts for each half which can be used to stop game clock. Moreover, game officials can also stop game clock for checking plays and injuries. All of this can average around 3 hours.