You can start maternity leave any time from 11 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby's due. You can bring the date forward if you need to take time off work for pregnancy-related reasons within four weeks of the expected birth date. Your employer may make you start your leave from then. To claim your right to maternity leave, you must tell your employer about your pregnancy no later than 15 weeks before your baby is due. You can work this out by finding the Sunday before your baby is due, and then counting back 15 weeks. You should tell your employer: Your employer may want you to put this in writing
Maternity allowance. If you do not qualify for statutory maternity pay, you may qualify for maternity allowance. This is payable if your earnings are at least as much as the earnings threshold of £30.00 per week (as at April 2012) for 26 weeks within the 66 weeks prior to your expected week of childbirth. SMP is paid for a continuous period of up to 39 weeks. For the first six weeks, you will be paid at 90 per cent of your average weekly earnings. Then, for the remaining 33 weeks you will be paid at the standard rate of £136.78 per week (from 1 April 2013) or 90 per cent of your average weekly earnings if this is lower.
You may then take an extra 26 weeks' additional maternity leave, giving you a year's leave in total. If you take a year off, you'll have taken your full statutory maternity leave. You have the right to maternity leave regardless of how long you've been in your job, how many hours you work, or how much you're paid. To claim your right to maternity leave, you must tell your employer about your pregnancy no later than 15 weeks before your baby is due. You can work this out by finding the Sunday before your baby is due, and then counting back 15 weeks. You should tell your employer: Your employer may want you to put this in writing
Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP). To qualify for SMP you must: 1  earn on average at least £112 a week. 2  give the correct notice. 3  give proof you’re pregnant. 4  have worked for your employer continuously for at least 26 weeks up to the ‘qualifying week’ - the 15th week before the expected week of childbirth.
If that’s the case, you have the right to 26 weeks of Ordinary Maternity Leave and 26 weeks of Additional Maternity Leave, making one year in total. The combined 52 weeks is known as Statutory Maternity Leave (SML). You should tell your employer you want to take SML at least 15 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby is due. So long as you have given the correct notice, you are entitled to this no matter: 1  How long you have been with your employer. 2  How many hours you work.
It is 26 weeks before you go off for maternity leave. The statutory rights are that you only get paid for 39 weeks, 6 weeks of that is at 90% of your normal wages and the remaining 33 weeks is statutory maternity pay which is set by the govt which was £112 last year. 
If you’ve been working for same employer continuously for at least 26 weeks before that date and earning enough (£112 a week in the tax year 2015-16), you’re eligible for Statutory Maternity Pay. 1  For the first six weeks, Statutory Maternity Pay is equal to 90% of your average weekly earnings before tax. 1 For the first six weeks, Statutory Maternity Pay is equal to 90% of your average weekly earnings before tax. 2  For the remaining 33 weeks, it’s £139.58 in 2015-16 – or 90% of your earnings if that’s less.
Rating Newest Oldest. To qualify for maternity benefits you need to have worked 600 hours, doesnt matter how long you work as long as you have that number of hours. At 40 hours a week its only like 15 weeks. 
Statutory Maternity Leave. At least 15 weeks before your due date, tell your employer when the baby is due and when you want to start your maternity leave. Your employer can ask for this in writing. Your employer must write to you within 28 days confirming your start and end dates. Tell your employer you want to stop work to have a baby and the day you want your. to start. You must give them at least 28 days’ notice (in writing if they ask for it) and proof that you’re pregnant. Your employer must confirm within 28 days how much.