How Fossil Fuels were Formed. Contrary to what many people believe, fossil fuels are not the remains of dead dinosaurs. In fact, most of the fossil fuels we find today were formed millions of years before the first dinosaurs. Formation of Coal. Fossil fuels were formed from plants and animals that lived 300 million years ago in primordial swamps and oceans (top)
Fossil fuels are formed in the underground when the remains of dead plants and animals are buried for a long time under the layers or sediments of earth. Fossil fuels are hydr … ocarbons, primarily coal, fuel oil or natural gas. Fossil fuels were formed from plants and animals that lived up to about 300 million years ago. The Sun passed solar energy to the plants, and plants were eaten by animals.
Overview of Fossil Fuels. Fossil fuels were formed millions of years ago when plants, animals and other creatures died and buried under the earth. Their remains gradually changed over the years due to heat and pressure in the earth’s crust and formed to coal, oil and gas. These are the 3 major forms of fossil fuels and were formed from the organic remains of plants and animals. Since, they took million of years to form, that’s why they are also called as non-renewable energy sources. This means that they cannot be used again once they are expired. 
1 Describe the natural processes that formed different fossil fuels. 2  Describe different fossil fuels, and understand why they are nonrenewable resources. 3  Explain how fossil fuels are turned into useful forms of energy. 4  Understand that when we burn a fossil fuel, most of its energy is released as heat. The same processes that formed these fossils also formed some of our most important energy resources. These resources are called fossil fuels. Fossil fuels provide a very high quality energy, but because of our demand for energy, we are using up these resources much faster than they formed.
Fossil fuels, including coal, oil and natural gas, are currently the world's primary energy source. Formed from organic material over the course of millions of years, fossil fuels have fueled U.S. and global economic development over the past century. 
Fossil Fuels were formed as a result of geologic processes acting on the remains of plants and animals that lived and died hundreds of millions of years ago and got buried in the Earth's crust. Fossil fuels were formed from plants and animals that lived up to about 300 million years ago. The Sun passed solar energy to the plants, and plants were eaten by animals.
Although fossil fuels are continually being formed via natural processes, they are generally considered to be non-renewable resources because they take millions of years to form and the known viable reserves are being depleted much faster than new ones are being made. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum and natural gas.
Petroleum, coal, and natural gas are the fossil fuels. These fuels were formed from the energy of the sun. Sunlight was changed into living plant tissue through the process of photosynthesis. That plant tissue was then consumed by animals, which were, in turn, consumed by other animals.
Fossil fuels are fuels formed by natural processes such as anaerobic decomposition of buried dead organisms. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum and natural gas.