Report Abuse. They are not Horses no. Zebras and Horses are in the same Genus, although Zebras have a different subgenus. And of course, they are different species. The two species are believed to have split from the same line between 2 and 4 million years ago. So... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Zebras and horses both belong to the family Equidae, and the genus Equus. However, they are different species-horses being E. caballus, and zebras E. burchelli (Burchell's or plains zebra), E. grevyi (Grevy's zebra), and E. zebra (mountain zebra).
Donkeys, zebras and mules all differ somewhat from horses in conformation. The most noticeable difference is of course the ears. Donkeys' ears are MUCH longer in proportion to their size than a horse's. The necks are characteristically straighter in the longears, and most donkeys and all zebras lack a true wither. 
The Donkey. Donkeys are related to horses and zebras. They are all members of the family ‘equus’, i.e. they are equines. The donkey is a descendant of the African wild ass, which is now rare in the wild and found in only a few remote parts of north-eastern Africa.
A mule is the offspring of a male donkey (called a jack) and a female horse (called a mare). Mules inherit desirable qualities from both donkeys and horses; from the horse they inherit strength and stamina, and like donkeys, mules are generally patient, sure-footed, intelligent and have an even temper. edit Sound. Every mule has a unique bray that is a combination of the horse's whinny and the grunting of the wind-down of a bray. Most mules start out Whinee..... like a horse and end in-aw ah aw like a donkey.
Equidae (sometimes known as the horse family) is the taxonomic family of horses and related animals, including the extant horses, donkeys, and zebras, and many other species known only from fossils. All extant species are in the genus Equus. 
Horses and donkeys are different species, with different numbers of chromosomes. Of the two F1 hybrids between these two species, a mule is easier to obtain than a hinny, which is the product of a female donkey (jenny) and a male horse (stallion). The size of a mule and work to which it is put depend largely on the breeding of the mule's dam (female parent). A mule is the offspring of a male donkey (jack) and a female horse (mare).
Equidae is the family of horse-like animals, which belong to the order Perissodactyla. It is sometimes known as the horse family. Apart from the horse, other extant equids include assorted subspecies of donkey or a$$, and the zebras. All of these are in the genus Equus. They are related equally. They are all part of the same family. They are all closely related enough to cross breed with one another. 
The donkey or ass (Equus africanus asinus), is a domesticated member of the horse family, Equidae. The wild ancestor of the donkey is the African wild ass, E. africanus. Small numbers of donkeys are kept for breeding or as pets in developed countries. A male donkey or ass is called a jack, a female a jenny or jennet; a young donkey is a foal. Jack donkeys are often used to mate with female horses to produce mules.