Cancer cells can also spread to other parts of the body through the blood and lymph systems. There are several main types of cancer. 1  Carcinoma is a cancer that begins in the skin or in tissues that line or cover internal organs. Sarcoma. A cancer of the bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. Tissue. A group of cells that act together to carry out a specific function in the body.
A type of cancer that begins in plasma cells (white blood cells that produce antibodies). Sarcoma. A cancer of the bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. Tissue. A group of cells that act together to carry out a specific function in the body.
Spindle cell tumor is not a specific diagnosis or a specific type of cancer. The tumor may be a sarcoma, or it can be sarcomatoid — meaning another type of tumor (like a carcinoma) that looks like a sarcoma under the microscope. 1 Clear cell sarcoma is a rare cancer that often develops in tendons of the arms or legs. 2  Under the microscope, it has some features of malignant melanoma, a type of cancer that develops from pigment-producing skin cells. 3  How cancers with these features start in parts of the body other than the skin is not known.
Malignant bone tumors. Osteosarcoma: Osteosarcoma (also called osteogenic sarcoma) is the most common primary bone cancer. This cancer starts in the bone cells. It most often occurs in young people between the ages of 10 and 30, but about 10% of osteosarcoma cases develop in people in their 60s and 70s. Most of the time when someone with cancer is told they have cancer in the bones, the doctor is talking about a cancer that has spread to the bones from somewhere else. This is called metastatic cancer. It can be seen in many different types of advanced cancer, like breast cancer, prostate cancer, and lung cancer.
1 Sarcoma is a cancer that begins in bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. 2  Leukemia is a cancer that starts in blood-forming tissue, such as the bone marrow, and causes large numbers of abnormal blood cells to be produced and enter the blood. Sarcoma. A cancer of the bone, cartilage, fat, muscle, blood vessels, or other connective or supportive tissue. Tissue. A group of cells that act together to carry out a specific function in the body.
For each tumor name listed below, specific terminology is used to denote the tissue type or cell origin of the tumor and whether the tumor is benign or malignant. For more information about specific tumors by tissue type please see the Tumors by Location section of this website. Erythroid Leukemia. A malignant acute or chronic cancer of unknown cause in animals that involves the blood-forming organs, is characterized by an abnormal increase in the number of red blood cells in the tissues of the body.
A sarcoma is a type of cancer that develops from certain tissues, like bone or muscle. Bone and soft tissue sarcomas are the main types of sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcomas can develop from soft tissues like fat, muscle, nerves, fibrous tissues, blood vessels, or deep skin tissues. They can be found in any part of the body. 1 Clear cell sarcoma is a rare cancer that often develops in tendons of the arms or legs. 2  Under the microscope, it has some features of malignant melanoma, a type of cancer that develops from pigment-producing skin cells. 3  How cancers with these features start in parts of the body other than the skin is not known.
Myeloma is also known as multiple myeloma. It is a cancer that starts in plasma cells. Plasma cells are a type of white blood cell made in the bone marrow. They produce antibodies, also called immunoglobulins, to help fight infection. 
Adenoma. A benign tumor that starts in gland-like cells of the epithelial (cells that line cavities and surfaces of the body) tissue. Astrocytoma. A benign or malignant tumor that begins in the brain or spinal cord in small, star-shaped cells called astrocytes. Erythroid Leukemia. A malignant acute or chronic cancer of unknown cause in animals that involves the blood-forming organs, is characterized by an abnormal increase in the number of red blood cells in the tissues of the body.
The marrow in other bones is a mixture of fat cells and blood-forming cells. The blood-forming cells produce red blood cells, white blood cells, and blood platelets. Other cells in the marrow include plasma cells, fibroblasts, and reticuloendothelial cells. Cells from any of these tissues can develop into a cancer. Most of the time when someone with cancer is told they have cancer in the bones, the doctor is talking about a cancer that has spread to the bones from somewhere else. This is called metastatic cancer. It can be seen in many different types of advanced cancer, like breast cancer, prostate cancer, and lung cancer.