The only difference is, when a platinum or rhodium finish is added to fine metals, it will not tarnish .... as fast . You will still need to use the old trusty polishing cloth for touch-ups, but not as much. A few tips: 1  Invest in some anti-tarnish strips for your fine jewelry. 
In the 1930’s some silverware makers began to use rhodium electro-plating to produce sterling flatware that would not require frequent polishing. The use of rhodium plating spread to white gold and sterling silver jewelry as a means of creating a highly durable, tarnish resistant surface. To ensure rhodium plated jewellery lasts as long as possible, keep it cleans with a mixture of mild liquid shampoo and a little water. In its natural solid state Rhodium is far too hard to work, but it is used as an alloy in the smelting of platinum and palladium. Rhodium plating is a metal deposition process used to coat materials with a decorative and protective layer of rhodium.
White gold is often plated with a thin rhodium layer to improve its optical impression while sterling silver is often rhodium plated for tarnish resistance. Rhodium detectors are used in nuclear reactors to measure the neutron flux level. 3 people found this useful. Moreover, it is a key technology for the development of new machines. It is also used for decoration, for example in jewelry, typically to provide a silver or gold exterior.   Rhodium plating is occasionally used on white gold, silver or copper and its alloys.
Imitation Rhodium. Imitation Rhodium is by far our most popular finish. It is an electroplated finish which is designed to look like real rhodium at a fraction of the cost. This finish is sometimes also referred to as “white” or “silver tone”. It is used in place of silver finish a lot because of its durability and resistance to tarnishing. Our antique silver is an electroplated finish and is more accurately described as an antique imitation rhodium. We use imitation rhodium as the base to antique giving the chain the look of real antique silver, but with the durability of imitation rhodium. A “true” antique silver finish is also available upon request.
White gold is often plated with a thin rhodium layer to improve its appearance while sterling silver is often rhodium-plated for tarnish resistance. Rhodium detectors are used in nuclear reactors to measure the neutron flux level. Rhodium is a noble metal, resistant to corrosion, found in platinum-or nickel ores together with the other members of the platinum group metals.
Cleaning rhodium plated jewelry. Rhodium is a precious metal in the platinum family, often used to plate white gold and sterling silver jewelry. It is a highly reflective, durable metal that gives jewelry a long lasting, brilliant sheen. In it’s pure form silver doesn’t tarnish much, however, because of the nature of its alloy sterling silver does. This is not a defect in the material or an indication of inferior quality, but a natural chemical process in which the silver reacts with sulfur particles in the air.
A. Imitation rhodium is typically an alloy of copper, tin and zinc, and/or nickel used for plating other jewelry metals like brass and steel to give these metals a bright white, lustrous finish. Plated items include finished pieces, plating on Swarovski crystal, base-metal components and findings. Rhodium plating can wear off with time. Re-plating rhodium over precious metal findings and jewelry can be done by a jeweler. Imitation nickel-plated findings are another alternative for non-precious metal silver-colored components.
Often there will be a layer of nickel or copper plating between the two layers of silver. Other common plating methods used are rhodium plating, gold plating (vermeil), and anti-tarnish plating like e-coating or electro-coating where a lacquer is bonded to the surface of the silver, (this may give it a plastic feel). In it’s pure form silver doesn’t tarnish much, however, because of the nature of its alloy sterling silver does. This is not a defect in the material or an indication of inferior quality, but a natural chemical process in which the silver reacts with sulfur particles in the air.
Rhodium is a silver-white hard metal often found in platinum ores. It is the most expensive precious metal. In its natural solid state Rhodium is far too hard to work, but it is used as an alloy in the smelting of platinum and palladium. Rhodium plating is a metal deposition process used to coat materials with a decorative and protective layer of rhodium. Rhodium is a noble metal that imparts an extremely bright and hard wearing finish when applied as plating. When applied as a thin plate, it affords a durable finish of exceptional brightness