Well trained reflexologists do not claim to cure, diagnose or prescribe. Reflexology is a very individual treatment which is tailored to you as a whole person, taking into account both physical and non-physical factors that might be affecting your wellbeing. 
Reflexology is an alternative treatment for a wide variety of conditions, as mentioned above, and has been in use for thousands of years. The ancient Chinese and Egyptians have documented practices similar to reflexology as a treatment for certain afflictions. It involves the reflexologist applying pressure to specific areas in the hands, feet, and ears that affect certain reflex areas of the body.
There is no scientific evidence to support the use of reflexology as a treatment for cancer. Reflexologists believe that having your feet pressed and massaged in a systematic way stimulates the corresponding organs in your body. This releases your body’s natural healing powers and restores health. The feet are the most common area to treat. According to reflexologists, you have reflex areas in your feet that match every part of your body. Therapists claim that there is a map of the left side of your body on your left foot, and the right side of your body on your right foot.
Although reflexology is not used to diagnose or cure health disorders, millions of people around the world use it to complement other treatments when addressing conditions like anxiety, asthma, cancer treatment, cardiovascular issues, diabetes, headaches, kidney function, PMS, and sinusitis. 1 Reflexology focuses on reflex maps of points and areas of the body in the feet, hands, and ears using unique micromovement techniques such as thumb or finger walking and hook and backup with the goal of creating a response throughout the body.
Reflexology is the application of appropriate pressure to specific points and areas on the feet, hands, or ears. Reflexologists believe that these areas and reflex points correspond to different body organs and systems, and that pressing them has a beneficial effect on the organs and person's general health. For example, reflexology holds that a specific spot in the arch of the foot corresponds to the bladder point. 1 Reflexology focuses on reflex maps of points and areas of the body in the feet, hands, and ears using unique micromovement techniques such as thumb or finger walking and hook and backup with the goal of creating a response throughout the body.
Reflexology is a holistic therapy promoting the body to heal itself so in theory it can help with almost all conditions and problems. This ensures the whole body gets treated and multiple problems and conditions can be addressed and hopefully helped during all treatment sessions. Maternity reflexology is a special interest of mine however I am interested in treating all complaints and problems to assist an individual to reach their optimum health.
Wh at is reflexology? Reflexology is a therapy based on the principle that there are small and specific areas of innervation in the hands and feet that correspond to specific muscle groups or organs of the body. In this system, the nerve endings in the extremities provide a map of the rest of the body. He urges caution with regard to claims that reflexology can cleanse the body of toxins, increase circulation, promote weight loss, or successfully treat earaches, hemorrhoids, emphysema, heart disease, thyroid disorders or any other health condition.
Studies also show that reflexology may have benefits in palliative care of people with cancer. Reflexologists claim that reflexology also can treat a wide variety of medical conditions, such as asthma, diabetes and cancer. However, scientific evidence is lacking to support these claims. Reflexology is generally considered safe, although very vigorous pressure may cause discomfort for some people. Reflexology is the application of pressure to areas on the feet, hands and ears. Reflexology is generally relaxing and may be an effective way to alleviate stress.
Reflexology may be as effective as painkillers for conditions such as back ache and arthritis. 1  People felt 40% less pain and were able to stand pain for about 45% longer when they had the treatment. 2  Researchers say is the first time reflexology has been scientifically tested as a treatment for acute pain. The findings suggest reflexology could help with conditions such as back ache and osteoarthritis. Reflexology involves applying pressure to any body area but is commonly used on either the feet, as it was in this study.
The practitioner explains how reflexology works and what happens during a session. The reflexologist also informs you that reflexology does not treat specific illness and is not a substitute for medical treatment. You may be asked to sign a consent form. Remember that it is okay, and even expected, for you to ask questions. You should feel comfortable communicating with the reflexologist. 