About the Miami to Tampa route: Depends how you go. You could drive up to Broward County and cross the state on I-75--that's the quickest way. Or, and this is the way that I would go, take more time and take the Tamiami Trail (Ta-Miami = Tampa-Miami), and you'll travel right through the Everglades. Now from Miami to Orlando it is 4 hours on turnpike at the speed limit which is 65mph, answers is right because I have done it before and I time my self all the time. I hope my answer help you. Source(s): 305cubanasa · 8 years ago.
Report Abuse. you can get to orlando from 3 1/2 to for hours depending on traffic and how many traffic laws you plan on breaking. I made it to Orlando from Miami in 2 hours and 25 mins. once. Many laws were broke...... 
Flying time from Orlando, FL to Miami, FL. The total flight duration from Orlando, FL to Miami, FL is 42 minutes. This is the average in-air flight time (wheels up to wheels down on the runway) based on actual flights taken over the past year, including routes like MCO to MIA. The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from Orlando, FL to Miami, FL (as the crow flies), which is about 204 miles or 328 kilometers. Your trip begins in Orlando, Florida. It ends in Miami, Florida
Distance from Miami to Orlando is 235 miles (depends on exact locations).Travel time by air - 20 minTravel time by car - 3 hours 45 min. Popularity: 25. Where can you buy alcohol in Orlando FL? At any store that sells it including most grocery, convenience, and speciality stores that only sell alcohol. 
When you leave Orlando for Miami, the best route to take would be Florida's Turnpike. As I mentioned before, it is a limited access toll highway with rest stops and gas stations along the way. Depending on how fast you drive and how many stops you make, Miami is 3-4 hours away. 
Time: 3 hours, 35 minutes Total Est. Distance: 235.00 miles  Yes, the answer above is correct. Although, keep in mind that there are 2 different ways to go from … Orlando to Miami. East Coast routeWest Coast route Given is the calculated distance as well as the driving travel time, which does not take into account driving conditions, traffic, etc. 
How long is the drive from Miami, FL to Orlando, FL? The total driving time is 3 hours, 17 minutes. Your trip begins in Miami, Florida. It ends in Orlando, Florida. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from Miami, FL to Orlando, FL.
Orlando to Miami Transportation. The best way to get from Orlando to Miami is with The Florida Express Bus. We offer Bus Trips from Orlando to Miami everyday, including holidays. Bus Tickets from Orlando to Miami start at only $25 per person each way. 