Many types of foods can be allergens, but certain foods are much more likely than others to trigger an allergic reaction. According to FARE, eight foods are responsible for 90 percent of food allergies. They are: 1  cow's milk. 2  eggs. 3  peanuts. 4  fish. 5  shellfish. 6  tree nuts (such as cashews or walnuts). 7  wheat. 
Food intolerance and other reactions. There are a number of reactions to food that cause similar symptoms to a food allergy. Depending on the type of food intolerance you have, you may be able to eat small amounts of problem foods without a reaction. Common conditions that can cause symptoms mistaken for a food allergy include: 1  Absence of an enzyme needed to fully digest a food. 2  You may not have adequate amounts of some enzymes needed to digest certain foods.
1 Milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, wheat, and soy cause most problems in children. 2  Some babies are so sensitive to these foods that if the offending food is eaten by the mother, drinking her breast milk can cause a reaction. 3  Most children outgrow allergies to eggs, milk, wheat, and soy. 1 Some babies are so sensitive to these foods that if the offending food is eaten by the mother, drinking her breast milk can cause a reaction. 2  Most children outgrow allergies to eggs, milk, wheat, and soy. 3  Peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and shellfish cause most of the allergic reactions in teens and adults.
However, just a handful of foods cause at least 90% of allergic reactions to food. The substance that causes an allergic reaction in foods or drinks is called an allergen. As far as foods are concerned, nearly all allergens are proteins. People with a latex allergy should be tested for allergies to foods that are linked to the latex-food syndrome. Lupins are common garden plants, which are related to legumes such as peas, lentils and beans. Many types of lupin seed are poisonous, because they contain bitter-tasting toxins.
Learn more about the types of food allergies. Symptoms. Not everyone who experiences symptoms after eating certain foods has a food allergy or needs to avoid that food entirely; for instance, some people experience an itchy mouth and throat after eating a raw or uncooked fruit or vegetable. This may indicate oral allergy syndrome-a reaction to pollen, not to the food itself. More than 50 million Americans have an allergy of some kind. Food allergies are estimated to affect 4 to 6 percent of children and 4 percent of adults, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Food allergies occur when the body's immune system overreacts to substances in food you have eaten, triggering an allergic reaction. Food allergies are more common in young children than in adults. 1  Milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, wheat, and soy cause most problems in children. 2  Some babies are so sensitive to these foods that if the offending food is eaten by the mother, drinking her breast milk can cause a reaction. 1 Some babies are so sensitive to these foods that if the offending food is eaten by the mother, drinking her breast milk can cause a reaction. 2  Most children outgrow allergies to eggs, milk, wheat, and soy. 3  Peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and shellfish cause most of the allergic reactions in teens and adults.
A wide variety of foods can cause allergic reactions, but 90% of allergic responses to foods are caused by cow's milk, soy, eggs, wheat, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and shellfish. 
Peanuts are one of the most common causes of food allergy and can cause severe reactions, including anaphylaxis. They contain a number of allergens that are not destroyed by cooking or roasting. Peanut allergy can be so severe that very tiny amounts can cause a reaction. People with a latex allergy should be tested for allergies to foods that are linked to the latex-food syndrome. Lupins are common garden plants, which are related to legumes such as peas, lentils and beans. Many types of lupin seed are poisonous, because they contain bitter-tasting toxins.
Another type of delayed food allergy reaction stems from food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES), a severe gastrointestinal reaction that generally occurs two to six hours after consuming milk, soy, certain grains and some other solid foods. More than 50 million Americans have an allergy of some kind. Food allergies are estimated to affect 4 to 6 percent of children and 4 percent of adults, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.