Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to absorb energy from light. Chlorophyll molecules are specifically arranged in and around photosystems that are embedded in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. In these complexes, chlorophyll serves two primary functions. 
Plants make food in their leaves. The leaves contain a pigment called chlorophyll, which colors the leaves green. Chlorophyll can make food the plant can use from carbon dioxide, water, nutrients, and energy from sunlight. This process is called photosynthesis. During the process of photosynthesis, plants release oxygen into the air. People and animals need oxygen to breathe. 
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed. Photosynthesis 
By using the energy of sunlight, plants can convert carbon dioxide and water into carbohydrates and oxygen in a process called photosynthesis. As photosynthesis requires sunlight, this process only happens during the day. We often like to think of this as plants `breathing in carbon dioxide and `breathing out oxygen. The quick answer to your question is that oxygen is just a waste product when plants do photosynthesis. Plants can do two important things: Use energy from the sun to turn CO 2 (carbon dioxide) and H 2 O (water) into sugar (C 6 H 12 O 6) with oxygen (O 2) left over. This is photosynthesis
Photosynthesis is a chemical process that occurs in many forms of bacteria and virtually all plants, including aquatic plants and algae. Using just three simple ingredients (carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight) plants and bacteria are able to make their own food. Aquatic Plants and Photosynthesis. Plants, including aquatic plants, produce oxygen, and they also use oxygen. Here's how these processes work: During a sunny day, dissolved oxygen in water is generally plentiful because photosynthesizing algae and aquatic plants are constantly releasing it into the water.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. However, not all organisms that use light as a source of energy carry out photosynthesis, since photoheterotrophs use organic compounds, rather than carbon dioxide, as a source of carbon. In plants, algae and cyanobacteria, photosynthesis releases oxygen. This is called oxygenic photosynthesi
Plants take in Carbon Dioxide and prepare food with the help of sunlight and chlorophyll. Carbon Dioxide is vital ingredient in the process of photosynthesis. Plants … do not require Oxygen and so liberate Oxygen to the atmosphere which is used by other organisms for respiration. 2 people found this useful.
Answer 2: Plants break down sugar to energy using the same processes that we do. Oxygen is needed to break the sugar into carbon dioxide, releasing energy the plants can use to stay alive. However, plants also take in energy from the sun and use it to make sugar, a step that converts carbon dioxide to oxygen. The quick answer to your question is that oxygen is just a waste product when plants do photosynthesis. Plants can do two important things: Use energy from the sun to turn CO 2 (carbon dioxide) and H 2 O (water) into sugar (C 6 H 12 O 6) with oxygen (O 2) left over. This is photosynthesis