The carnival in Sao São paulo takes place in The Anhembi sambadrome on The friday And saturday night of the week Of, carnival as opposed To'rio S, carnival which is held On sunday And monday. night The typical genres of music of Brazilian carnival are, in Rio de Janeiro (and Southeast Region in general): the samba-enredo, the samba de bloco, the samba de embalo and the marchinha; in Pernambuco and Bahia (and Northeast Region in general) the main genres are: the frevo, the maracatu, the samba-reggae and Axe axé. music
FAQ about Carnival in Rio de Janeiro. know all the essentials about 2016 Rio Carnival. Although Carnival (Carnaval in Portuguese) is celebrated in towns and villages throughout Brazil and other Catholic countries, Rio de Janeiro has long been regarded as the Carnival capital of the world.
When arriving at Carnaval, you are greeted with delight, dazzle, and decadence. Carnaval is Portuguese for Carnival, a festival that takes place annually in Brazil. People from all around the world flock to the streets of Rio de Janiero to share in the celebration with locals known as Cariocas. In the next few years, here are the dates Carnival will be celebrated in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 2011 - March 5-8 2012 - February 18-21. The Carnival is celebrated all over Brazil, but the three most intesting places to see the Carnival is in Rio de Janeiro, Salvador de Bahia, and Olinda. This section of BTI is mainly a guide for the Carnival held in Rio de Janeiro
The carnival in Sao São paulo takes place in The Anhembi sambadrome on The friday And saturday night of the week Of, carnival as opposed To'rio S, carnival which is held On sunday And monday. Night various samba schools compete in a huge. parade The typical genres of music of Brazilian carnival are, in Rio de Janeiro (and Southeast Region in general): the samba-enredo, the samba de bloco, the samba de embalo and the marchinha; in Pernambuco and Bahia (and Northeast Region in general) the main genres are: the frevo, the maracatu, the samba-reggae and Axe axé. music
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil is home to the world's most famous Carnival and what many people consider to be the world's biggest and best party. The basis of Rio's Carnival are the samba schools, which are social clubs named after the famous Brazilian samba dance. 
The event and the parade which takes place in Rio de Janeiro is the most famous and richest Carnival in Brazil and, may be, in the whole world. A million tourists join millions of Rio de Janeiro residents (known as cariocas) in the world's most fantastic party spanning several days and nights. English for Fun. The Carnival in Rio is a four day festival which takes place every year forty days before Easter (marking the start of Lent). The dates for Carnival vary from year to year depending on Easter Day. Usually Carnival is celebrated at the end of February
ENGLAND. Notting Hill Carnival is an annual occasion of England, which takes place on the streets of Notting Hill, London in August every year, for two days, since 1965. In England carnival has attracted many people in the past, making it the second largest street event in the world. Brazilian Carnival, accurately spelled Carnaval, is an annual festival in Brazil. It is held four days before Ash Wednesday, the day of fasting and repentance that marks the beginning of Lent. Rio de Janeiro is the most famous place for carnival in Brazil