The First Stage of Labor. The first stage is the longest part of labor and can last up to 20 hours. It begins when your cervix starts to open (dilate) and ends when it is completely open (fully dilated) at 10 centimeters. When the cervix dilates from 0 to 3 or 4 centimeters, contractions get stronger as time progresses. 
Childbirth involves three stages: First stage: Starts with the onset of true labor and lasts until the cervix is completely dilated to 10 cm. Second stage: Continues after the cervix is dilated to 10 cm until the delivery of your baby. Third stage: Delivery of your placenta. The second stage of childbirth involves pushing and the delivery of your baby. Until this point, your body has been doing all the work for you. Now that your cervix has fully dilated to 10 cm, it is time for you to help by pushing. Pushing and what to expect: 1  The second stage can last from 20 minutes to 2 hours. 2  Contractions will last about 45-90 seconds at intervals of 3-5 minutes of rest in between. 3  You will have a strong natural urge to push
Your baby stage during pregnancy, that is, the first trimester will actually show a heartbeat and moving tiny limbs! During the second month, that is, pregnancy 7 weeks, your baby will have a face and start developing various vital organs. The first stage of pregnancy brings with it several changes. During the first trimester pregnancy symptoms include a difference in your breasts, exhaustion, nausea and you might need to rush to the bathroom often.
During the first trimester your body undergoes many changes. Hormonal changes affect almost every organ system in your body. These changes can trigger symptoms even in the very first weeks of pregnancy. Your period stopping is a clear sign that you are pregnant. Most women find the second trimester of pregnancy easier than the first. But it is just as important to stay informed about your pregnancy during these months. You might notice that symptoms like nausea and fatigue are going away. But other new, more noticeable changes to your body are now happening.
By the second trimester, your baby is well under way. Here’s everything you need to know about the second stage of your pregnancy and what’s happening to you and your bub. your pregnancy-weeks 13 to 16. Your pregnancy-week 13. Your pregnancy-week 14. Your Pregnancy-Week 15. Your Pregnancy-Week 16. your pregnancy-weeks 17 to 20. Your Pregnancy-Week 17. Your Pregnancy-Week 18.
The 2nd Stage of Labor. The birth of your child is a special and unique experience. No two deliveries are alike, and there is no way to predict with total accuracy how your delivery will go. However, we can predict the stages you will go through during labor and childbirth and what you can generally expect. Third stage: Delivery of your placenta. The second stage of childbirth involves pushing and the delivery of your baby. Until this point, your body has been doing all the work for you. Now that your cervix has fully dilated to 10 cm, it is time for you to help by pushing. Pushing and what to expect: 1  The second stage can last from 20 minutes to 2 hours. 2  Contractions will last about 45-90 seconds at intervals of 3-5 minutes of rest in between. 3  You will have a strong natural urge to push
Stages of Pregnancy. Each of the stages of pregnancy is wondrous, fraught with joy and challenges. From the first trimester, through the second trimester, to the third trimester, we can help you navigate your journey to baby. 
(1 st, 2 nd, and 3 rd Trimester). Conception to about the 12 th week of pregnancy marks the first trimester. The second trimester is weeks 13 to 27, and the third trimester starts about 28 weeks and lasts until birth. This slide show will discuss what occurs to both the mother and baby during each trimester. 