In economics, average variable cost (AVC) is a firm's variable costs (labor, electricity, etc.) divided by the quantity of output produced. Variable costs are those costs which vary with output. where VC = variable cost, AVC = average variable cost, and Q = quantity of output produced. Average variable cost plus average fixed cost equals average total cost :
In economics, variable cost and fixed cost are the two main costs a company has when producing goods and services. A company's ... Variable Costs. Variable costs go up when a company produces more goods or services, and go down when it produces fewer goods or services. This is compared to fixed costs, which do not change in proportion to ... Investing.
Definition of Variable Cost. Variable costs are expenses that fluctuate proportionally with the quantity of output. Variable costs are directly tied to the activities of producing volume, which rises when these activities increase and falls when activities decrease. This effect can be related to materials, labor, and sales commissions. The formula to calculate variable cost is: Total Variable Cost = Total Quantity of Output * Variable Cost Per Unit of Output. To recognize variable costs, it is important to understand how to categorize costs. Variable costs are those which do not remain constant, specifically when production activities fluctuate.
Course Description: Fixed cost, variable cost and marginal cost are very important concepts to understand in economics. Fixed costs are business expenses and are often time-related such as salaries and rents which are paid on a monthly basis. 
Definition. The Average Variable Cost (AVC) is the total variable cost per unit of output. This is found by dividing Total Variable Cost (TVC) by total output (Q). Total Variable Cost (TVC) is all the costs that vary with output, such as materials and labor. The average variable cost is a firm's variable cost per unit of output. Most AVC functions will start decreasing and then at one point, begin to increase. A firm will chose to shut down production in the short run if the market price is less than the average variable cost of production.
Variable costs are those costs that vary depending on a company's production volume; they rise as production increases and fall as production decreases. Variable costs differ from fixed costs such as rent, advertising, insurance and office supplies, which tend to remain the same regardless of production output. Variable Costs. Variable costs go up when a company produces more goods or services, and go down when it produces fewer goods or services. This is compared to fixed costs, which do not change in proportion to ... Investing.
By dividing the total variable costs for a specific period by that same period's production volume will provide us with the variable cost per spark plug. For example, if the spark plug business made 500,000 units last year, its unit variable cost is $90,000 / 500,000, or $0.18. The formula to calculate variable cost is: Total Variable Cost = Total Quantity of Output * Variable Cost Per Unit of Output. To recognize variable costs, it is important to understand how to categorize costs. Variable costs are those which do not remain constant, specifically when production activities fluctuate.
DEFINITION of 'Fixed Cost'. A cost that does not change with an increase or decrease in the amount of goods or services produced. Fixed costs are expenses that have to be paid by a company, independent of any business activity. It is one of the two components of the total cost of a good or service, along with variable cost. Next Up. 
Variable costs are costs that vary with output. Generally variable costs increase at a constant rate relative to labor and capital. Variable costs may include wages, utilities, materials used in production, etc. In accounting they also often refer to mixed costs. Fixed costs are costs that are independent of output. These remain constant throughout the relevant range and are usually considered sunk for the relevant range (not relevant to output decisions). Fixed costs often include rent, buildings, machinery, etc.
Variable costs are costs that change in proportion to the good or service that a business produces. Variable costs are also the sum of marginal costs over all units produced. They can also be considered normal costs. Fixed costs and variable costs make up the two components of total cost. Direct costs, however, are costs that can easily be associated with a particular cost object. However, not all variable costs are direct costs