In the card game. Landro Longshot in-game. Landro is also a playable card in the TCG. He is used to turn extra resources in to card draws. The Landro card is one of the few cards in the WoW TCG that relies on a coin flip or a dice roll.
Landro is also a playable card in the TCG. He is used to turn extra resources in to card draws. The Landro card is one of the few cards in the WoW TCG that relies on the flip of a coin or the roll of a die. Source Edit. The Banana Charm item is available only to those who receive the King Mukla card in the World of Warcraft Through the Dark Portal TCG expansion that has the scratch off gently strip. Once you scratch and reveal the code, you can turn it in to Landro Longshot in Booty Bay who will give you Banana Charm.
Comment by KoolKarlen. To get the codes, you have to buy packs of the Trading card game. You can go to www.ude.com/loot to see what cards there are. The cards have the term loot on them and a section like a lottery ticket that you can scratch off. Under that, there is a code that you take to the above link to cash it in. During the patch 2.4.3 testing process, we'd like to provide players with the unique opportunity to acquire a few rare promotional items! We encourage any players on the PTR to visit Landro Longshot in Booty Bay to redeem the following items: * Path of Illidan – Code 1111.
Booty Bay. There are rumors-some sinister, some benign-that Landro's influence extends beyond the arena of gambling.. Landro Longshot is a friendly level 60 TCG item redeemer located in Booty Bay in the contested territory of Stranglethorn Vale. Source Edit. The Banana Charm item is available only to those who receive the King Mukla card in the World of Warcraft Through the Dark Portal TCG expansion that has the scratch off gently strip. Once you scratch and reveal the code, you can turn it in to Landro Longshot in Booty Bay who will give you Banana Charm.
Card: Landro Longshot. Rarity: 1/121 booster packs. Distribution: Heroes of Azeroth booster boxes contain 24 boosters and cost approx $45 USD (inc. shipping), therefore the average cost of obtaining this particular loot with random chance is $227.00. 
There are rumors-some sinister, some benign-that Landro's influence extends beyond the arena of gambling.. Landro Longshot is a friendly level 60 TCG item redeemer located in Booty Bay in the contested territory of Stranglethorn Vale. Landro is also a playable card in the TCG. He is used to turn extra resources in to card draws. The Landro card is one of the few cards in the WoW TCG that relies on a coin flip or a dice roll.