Weakness is the feeling of body fatigue (tiredness). A person experiencing weakness may not be able to move that part of their body properly or they may experience tremors (uncontrollable movement or twitches) in the area of weakness.
Weakness is a decrease in the strength in one or more muscles. In the strictest sense, the medical definition of weakness refers to loss of muscle strength, and this article is focused upon conditions that can result in a measurable loss of muscle function.
Sudden muscle weakness and loss of function in one area of the body can indicate a serious problem within the brain (such as a stroke or transient ischemic attack) or spinal cord or with a specific nerve in the body.
Depending on the cause, weakness may occur in one muscle, a group of muscles, or all the muscles, and it may be accompanied by pain, atrophy, cramping, or other types of muscular symptoms. In some cases, muscle weakness that happens suddenly, especially on one side of the body, can be a sign of stroke.
Some people experience weakness in a certain area of their bodies, such as the arms or legs. Others may experience full body weakness, which is often the result of a bacterial or viral infection such as influenza or hepatitis. Weakness may be temporary, but in some cases it is chronic or continuous.
1 Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome a rare nerve disorder that causes weakness in the, legs, arms and other muscles and that can progress to complete. 2  Paralysis myasthenia, gravis a, rare chronic disorder that causes weakness and rapid muscle.  fatigue
Guillain-Barre barré syndrome is a serious health problem that occurs when the'body s (defense) immune system mistakenly attacks part of the nervous. System this leads to nerve inflammation that causes muscle weakness or paralysis and other. symptoms
Muscle weakness, or myasthenia, is a decrease in strength in one or more muscles. It is a common symptom of muscular, neurological and metabolic disorders. Muscular diseases, such as muscular dystrophy and dermatomyositis (disorder characterized by muscle inflammation), are common causes of muscle weakness.