Educare. Educare is a state funded initiative that provides resources, technical assistance and training opportunities, at free or reduced costs, to child care providers with an emphasis on family home providers. 
Verb [edit]. educare. 1  First-person singular (yo) future subjunctive form of educar. 2  Formal second-person singular (usted) future subjunctive form of educar. 3  Third-person singular (el, él, ella also used with) usted future subjunctive form of.  educar 1 First-person singular (yo) future subjunctive form of educar. 2  Formal second-person singular (usted) future subjunctive form of educar. 3  Third-person singular (el, él, ella also used with) usted future subjunctive form of.  educar
Educare is a high quality learning and development center partnering with families and communities to ensure school readiness for children birth to age five. Educare is a: Educare Central Maine (ECM) is a state-of-the-art early learning center located in Waterville, Maine. ECM is connected to the George J. Mitchell Elementary School (GJMS). Together the partners focus on a continuum of quality early learning experiences from birth through grade 3.
Educare is a place. Educare Central Maine (ECM) is a state-of-the-art early learning center located in Waterville, Maine. ECM is connected to the George J. Mitchell Elementary School (GJMS). Together the partners focus on a continuum of quality early learning experiences from birth through grade 3
According to the Oxford English Dictionary,  education  is derived from the Latin roots, ' educo ' and ' educare' . Educare means to rear or to bring up. Educare itself can be traced to the latin root words,  e  and  ducere . Together, e-ducere means to pull out or to lead forth. We believe that the best way to educate children in any field is by using both 'educare' and 'educere' approach. 
Educare Schools provide full-day, full-year, high-quality early education and family support to 150-200 of their community's children, from prenatal to 5 years, who are at risk of school failure. Educare schools include the following essential features: Educare Schools develop strong community public-private partnerships that draw upon all available resources (school districts, state and federal child care funding, Head Start, Early Head Start, private funders, and others) to provide high quality, comprehensive services for young children and their families.
Our students have the opportunity to get practical experience working with children in our EduCare Center on the El Dorado campus. Parents and children are required to visit at least one time prior to the first day of attendance. All required forms must be on file with the EduCare Center prior to the first day of attendance. Enrollment fees and the first two weeks of tuition are due at the time of enrollment.