Definition of RIBOSOMAL RNA. : RNA that is a fundamental structural element of ribosomes —called also rRNA. See ribosomal RNA defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Ribosome Subunits. The two dissimilar sized ribonucleoprotein complexes that comprise a RIBOSOME-the large ribosomal subunit and the small ribosomal subunit. The eukaryotic 80S ribosome is composed of a 60S large subunit and a 40S small subunit. The bacterial 70S ribosome is composed of a 50S large subunit and a 30S small subunit.
Medical Definition of RIBOSOME. : any of the RNA-and protein-rich cytoplasmic granules that are sites of protein synthesis. : any of the RNA-rich cytoplasmic granules that are sites of protein synthesis — see cell illustration. — ri·bo·som·al \ˌrī-bə-ˈsō-məl\ adjective. See ribosome defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Ribosomes consist of two major components: the small ribosomal subunit, which reads the RNA, and the large subunit, which joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain. Each subunit is composed of one or more ribosomal RNA (rRNA) molecules and a variety of proteins. The sequence of DNA encoding for a protein may be copied many times into RNA chains of a similar sequence. Ribosomes can bind to an RNA chain and use it as a template for determining the correct sequence of amino acids in a particular protein. Amino acids are selected, collected and carried to the ribosome by transfer RNA (tRNA molecules), which enter one part of the ribosome and bind to the messenger RNA chain
rRNA: Ribosomal RNA, a molecular component of a ribosome, the cell's essential protein factory. Strictly speaking, ribosomal RNA (rRNA) does not make proteins. It makes polypeptides (assemblies of amino acids) that go to make up proteins. A tiny particulate structure located in the cytoplasm of the cell (outside the nucleus), the ribosome is composed of two subunits, one larger than the other. Although the ribosome consists of both ribosomal RNA (rRNA) and protein, the active site on the large unit of the ribosome -- the site of the chemical reaction that changes genetic information into the beginnings of a protein -- contains only rRNA.
The ribosomal RNAs form two subunits, the large subunit (LSU) and small subunit (SSU). The LSU rRNA acts as a ribozyme, catalyzing peptide bond formation. rRNA sequences are widely used for working out evolutionary relationships among organisms, since they are of ancient origin and are found in all known forms of life. Lighter colors represent ribosomal proteins. In molecular biology, ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) is the RNA component of the ribosome, and is essential for protein synthesis in all living organisms.
Three-dimensional views of the ribosome, showing rRNA in dark blue (small subunit) and dark red (large subunit). Lighter colors represent ribosomal proteins. In molecular biology, ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) is the RNA component of the ribosome, and is essential for protein synthesis in all living organisms. It constitutes the predominant material within the ribosome, which is approximately 60% rRNA and 40% protein by weight
Medical Definition of RIBOSOMAL RNA. : RNA that is a fundamental structural element of ribosomes—called also rRNA. : RNA that is a fundamental structural element of ribosomes 
Definition of RIBOSOME. : any of the RNA-rich cytoplasmic granules that are sites of protein synthesis — see cell illustration. — ri·bo·som·al \ˌrī-bə-ˈsō-məl\ adjective. See ribosome defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.