Citrine is a controversial crystal. Most of the citrine on the market is actually heat treated amethyst, so when you buy a citrine tumbled stone or a citrine point are you are probably buying a treated amethyst. A great way to benefit from the energy of citrine is to wear the crystal as jewelry. Because citrine works on the third chakra-self esteem and power issues-a long necklace with a citrine pendant can be an excellent piece of jewelry.
Citrine is a transparent, yellow variety of Quartz, ranging in color from pale to golden yellow, honey or almost brown, and may contain rainbow or sparkle inclusions. The name comes from the French word citron, meaning lemon. Natural Citrine is beneficial in eliminating infections of the kidney and bladder, and in the treatment of bed wetting, particularly in young adults. As an elixir, Citrine relieves menstrual and menopausal symptoms, such as hot flashes, hormone imbalance and the alleviation of fatigue.
The natural Citrine stone may often resemble paler Smoky Quartz, also called Smokey Citrine crystals. If you prefer to use natural Citrine, the color of the natural Citrine may be pale yellow, honey yellow or even with very little color at all. Both of these are a very different color to many of the other Citrines, as they are a very pale yellow color. Both natural Citrine Crystals and the heat treated stones are very beautiful. Using either will raise the level of your vibration, and aid you in creating the life you desire. The fact that this lovely yellow stone is a variety of quartz indicates that it has a strong ability to radiate energy.
Citrine has a subdued Fire energy, generally used in the center of a home or room to bring cheerfulness, light, and energy to the entire space. Yellow is the color of the middle of the year, the middle of space, the sun, and light energy. Use Citrine in the center of a space to energize and vitalize it. Natural Citrine is beneficial in eliminating infections of the kidney and bladder, and in the treatment of bed wetting, particularly in young adults. As an elixir, Citrine relieves menstrual and menopausal symptoms, such as hot flashes, hormone imbalance and the alleviation of fatigue.
The Uses of Citrine. Citrine is a type of quartz which is associated with being yellow or yellow orange in color. It is a hard crystal that grows around a macro crystalline structure, this means that its six sided crystal shape is easy to spot with the naked eye. It is transparent and has a wonderful vitreous luster. Citrine is from quartz mineral. Quartz is the most abundant mineral on earth and actually makes up 12% of the earth’s crust. Its color is usually a yellow to orange; however it might at times have a tinge of red or brown in it. Many times this stone is confused with Topaz.
Citrine is a fabulous stone to use to combat negative energy of any kind by breaking them up and dissipating them. It is helpful to clear unwanted energies from the environment, whether it be home, office, car, or other space indoors or out. Since citrine brings self-confidence as well as positive energy, it can also help eliminate fears of being judged or of others' ideas. It is also used to dissipate fear of being alone or unworthy of love. Citrine is a happy stone. It can bring happiness to the person who carries or wears it.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Citrine /ˈsɪtriːn/ is a colour, the most common reference for which is certain coloured varieties of quartz which are a medium deep shade of golden yellow. Citrine has been summarized at various times as yellow, greenish-yellow, brownish yellow or orange. 
In antiquity, Citrine may have been mistakenly referred to as Topaz, and may well have been used in many ancient cultures. In one text it is referenced as Cairngorm, a false topaz, being of a light yellow or citron color [Fernie, 179] ; and as a Scotch Topaz, being only a yellow quartz. Natural Citrine is beneficial in eliminating infections of the kidney and bladder, and in the treatment of bed wetting, particularly in young adults. As an elixir, Citrine relieves menstrual and menopausal symptoms, such as hot flashes, hormone imbalance and the alleviation of fatigue.
Citrine is the yellow to brownish-red variety of the mineral Quartz. It is a widely used as a gemstone, and after Amethyst it is the most popular Quartz gem. Most Citrine is formed by heat treating purple Amethyst. Citrine may also be produced by heat-treating Smoky Quartz from certain localities. Natural light yellow Citrine is often called Lemon Quartz on the gemstone market. Sometimes Citrine has a smoky hue to it, and can be borderlined between Citrine and Smoky Quartz, with either definition being correct. For additional information, see the gemstone section on Citrine.