CLA stands for conjugated linoleic acid. It is a naturally occurring trans-fatty acid made from the omega-6 class of essential fatty acids. Since it is not man-made, you should view it differently from classic “trans-fats,” which are almost certainly bad for your health. 
Conjugated linoleic acid is a slightly altered form of the essential fatty acid linoleic acid. It is an unsaturated fatty acid found in beef, lamb and dairy products; the CLA in supplements is generally derived from vegetable oils that are rich in linoleic acids. CLA is found naturally in a variety of foods, including dairy. This product offers a rich source of conjugated linoleic acid to supplement the diet naturally. Each capsule provides 750 mg CLA supplement.
Conjugated linoleic acid or CLA is a fatty acid that is found naturally in sunflower oil, dairy, and meat. It is also sold as a weight loss supplement. CLA has been studied for other health benefits. It may help with Type II diabetes and heart disease. It may also prevent some types of cancer and boost immunity.
CLA (Conjugated Linoleic Acid) is a natural, stimulant-free, fatty acid that can help build muscle, support healthy weight loss, and promote exercise recovery. Check out our best selling CLA supplements to help you obliterate your health and fitness goals. View Top 50 Overall Products. 
Buy CLA supplement, 750 mg per pill, 50 softgels Conjugated linoleic acid is a recently recognized supplement. CLA is found naturally in a variety of foods, including dairy. This product offers a rich source of conjugated linoleic acid to supplement the diet naturally. Each capsule provides 750 mg CLA supplement. Directions, dosage: Take 1, 2 or 3 softgels daily or as recommended by your health care provider
Conjugated linoleic acids (CLA) are a family of at least 28 isomers of linoleic acid found mostly in the meat and dairy products derived from ruminants. CLAs can be either cis-or trans-fats and the double bonds of CLAs are conjugated and separated by a single bond between them. 
CLA is an acronym for conjugated linoleic acid. Found mostly in animal and milk products, CLA is classified as a fatty acid. Health officials list CLA as one of the helpful fats. Ironically,it is found in many products that have a large amount of the unhealthy type of fat. CLA is a substance that your body does not make naturally so you can only get it from foods.
CLA is a potent antioxidant. Conjugated linoleic acid (CLA) is a mixture of different types of isomers of linoleic acid, primarily position and geometric isomers, which is found preferentially in dairy products and meat [1]. CLA is supplement that many have heard of but do not know much about. Conjugated Linoleic Acid is a slightly altered form of linoleic acid (LA), an omega-6 fatty acid important to human health. Omega-6 fatty acids are derived from the foods we eat primarily from meat and dairy products [13]. Therefore, CLA is primarily found in meat and diary products