1 Consider participating in a CPB Trusted Traveler Program, such as Global Entry, NEXUS, or SENTRI. 2  Participants in Trusted Traveler Programs are more likely to be selected. 3  Plus, these programs provide expedited passport control and customs screening upon arrival to the U.S. 4  Sign up for the TSA Pre✓ application program. To ensure that you’re eligible: 1  Log in to your SkyMiles account at delta.com/profile. 2  what is listed on your passport, driver’s license or other government-issued ID. 3  Consider participating in a CPB Trusted Traveler Program, such as Global Entry, NEXUS, or SENTRI
TSA Pre✓® Program Members. The TSA Pre✓® program membership is open to U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents. Applicants may NOT qualify to participate in the TSA Pre✓® program due to: 1  Incomplete or false application information. 2  Violations of transportation security regulations. 3  Disqualifying criminal offenses and factors. 
If the TSA determines a passenger is eligible for expedited screening through the TSA PreCheck security lanes, the text TSA PRE will appear in the upper left corner of their boarding pass or security document. Interested Customers who do not receive a TSA opt-in invitation and are not already a member of a CBP Trusted Traveler program may still be able to opt-in TSA PreCheck by applying for one of CBP’s eligible programs or by applying via the TSA PreCheck Application Program.
1 Note: Although participants in the CBP's Trusted Traveler programs (Global Entry, NEXUS, SENTRI and the TSA PreCheck Application Program) and Rapid Rewards Members who have opted into the program are eligible for expedited screening, no one is guaranteed expedited screening. Implementing a key component of the TSA’s intelligence-driven, risk-based approach to security, TSA PreCheck enhances aviation security by placing more focus on pre-screening individuals who volunteer to participate to expedite the travel experience.
The PreCheck program is essentially the Transportation Security Administration’s answer to passengers’ complaints about the irksome screening process at U.S. airports. At its heart, it’s an expedited screening program that allows pre-approved travelers who volunteer personal information in advance to leave on their shoes, belts and light outerwear and keep their laptops in their bags, among other perks lost after the 9/11 attacks in 2001.
We work closely with the TSA to ensure more customers are aware of this program and can take advantage of its many benefits. Please keep in mind that because TSA always incorporates random security measures, customer selection for expedited screening through TSA Pre✓ is determined on a flight-by-flight basis. To ensure that you’re eligible: 1  Log in to your SkyMiles account at delta.com/profile. 2  what is listed on your passport, driver’s license or other government-issued ID. 3  Consider participating in a CPB Trusted Traveler Program, such as Global Entry, NEXUS, or SENTRI. 4  Sign up for the TSA Pre✓ application program.
For more information on TSA Pre✓ and CBP Trusted Traveler Programs, please visit www.dhs.gov/tt. Although participants in the CBP's Trusted Traveler Programs (Global Entry, NEXUS and SENTRI) and TSA Pre✓ application program are eligible for expedited screening, no one is guaranteed it. To participate in the TSA Pre✓ application program, customers must complete a pre-enrollment form online and then visit one of the TSA Application Centers across the country to finish the process. A fee of $85 is required for a fiv e-year membership.
The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) manages and operates an expedited security screening program, allowing certain travelers to move through security more quickly and easily when departing from participating airports in the U.S. The TSA, not United, randomly selects travelers for expedited screening. How to participate. 1  If you haven't already, submit an application through the TSA Pre ✓ application program or another DHS Trusted Traveler program. 2  If your application is approved by DHS, you will receive a KTN/PASS ID/DoD ID number.
The ability to use TSA Pre ✓ ® lanes is most consistent for travelers who have joined a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Trusted Traveler program. The following describes several ways travelers can become eligible to participate in TSA Pre ✓ . How to participate. 1  If you haven't already, submit an application through the TSA Pre ✓ application program or another DHS Trusted Traveler program. 2  If your application is approved by DHS, you will receive a KTN/PASS ID/DoD ID number.
3. For passengers who travel internationally, a CBP Trusted Traveler Program such as Global Entry can increase your likelihood of being selected for TSA Pre✓ and provide expedited customs screening upon arrival into the U.S. Visit www.dhs.gov/tt to learn more. To participate in the TSA Pre✓ application program, customers must complete a pre-enrollment form online and then visit one of the TSA Application Centers across the country to finish the process. A fee of $85 is required for a fiv e-year membership.