Societies which are patrilineal define families as connecting between generations through the father’s line. Societies which are matrilineal define families as connecting between generations through the mother’s line. The succession of names, property, titles and other valuables in society tend to be passed on in either a female line or male line in different societies. 
When both patrilineal and matrilineal descent principles are combined, the result is the bilineal, or double, descent pattern shown below. With this rare hybrid system, every individual is a member of his or her mother's matrilineage and father's patrilineage. However, only males pass on their family identity to their children. A woman's children are members of her husband's patrilineal line. The red people in the diagram below are related to each other patrilineally. The form of unilineal descent that follows a female line is known as matrilineal.
In a patrilineal system the father of a child is often the most important male member of the extended family, however in matrilineal systems it is often the uncle of the child (the mother's eldest brother) who is the primary male figure. Matrilineal descent is a kinship system where a descent group traces their ancestral lineages via the maternal (uterine) side of the group. This does not exactly flip patrilineal descent systems on their head, such that women are the more powerful gender, but it can (See: Moso of China)
The result is usually more varied and complex family systems than are found in societies with patrilineal or matrilineal descent patterns. Cognatic descent is known to occur in four variations: bilineal, ambilineal, parallel, and bilateral descent. However, only males pass on their family identity to their children. A woman's children are members of her husband's patrilineal line. The red people in the diagram below are related to each other patrilineally. The form of unilineal descent that follows a female line is known as matrilineal.
There are two main types of unilineal descent systems, patrilineal and matrilineal. A patrilineal descent system is one in which an individual's kin group, or clan membership, is traced through men. Making it easy to remember, patrilineal descent systems trace through the papas. A matrilineal descent system traces descent through the women of the clan. Again, making things simple, the matrilineal system traces descent through the mamas. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Example 1. Members of the (matrilineal) clan culture Minangkabau do not even have a surname or family name, see this culture's own section below. In contrast, members do have a clan name, which is important in their lives although not included in the member's name. Instead, one's name is just one's given name. Example 2.
A unilateral system is any in which descent is measured from only one side of the family. Both patrilineal and matrilineal systems are examples of unilateral descent because they only base their heritage on one side of the family. Unilateral cultures tend to organize by lineages or clans, in which a common ancestor is seen as the thing that connects people in a group. Patrilineal Systems. Let's start with the patrilineal system, since that's what most of us are probably familiar with. In a patrilineal culture, people are identified through the male lineage. So, you get your father's last name, he has his father's last name, and so on.
Opposite of a patrilineal descent system is a matrilineal descent system, or a system of descent in which an individual's kin membership is traced through women. Again oversimplifying with some alliteration, it's one in which family descent is traced through the mamas! A matrilineal descent system traces descent through the women of the clan. Again, making things simple, the matrilineal system traces descent through the mamas. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Matrilineality is the tracing of descent through the female line. It may also correlate with a societal system in which each person is identified with their matriline – their mother's lineage – and which can involve the inheritance of property and/or titles. Members of the (matrilineal) clan culture Minangkabau do not even have a surname or family name, see this culture's own section below. In contrast, members do have a clan name, which is important in their lives although not included in the member's name. Instead, one's name is just one's given name. Example 2.