1 Beginning to happen or develop: he could feel incipient anger building up an incipient black eye. More example sentences. 1  At least at the beginning of the incipient movement, conservatives and libertarians could find a common enemy in the growth of the New Deal welfare state. 1 His vision is informed by the hope and joy, as well as the melancholia and uncertainty, of that period of incipience. 2  But also, from its incipience around 1968, liberation theology has been surrounded by controversy because of its often-unabashed association with Marxist analysis.
incipient. Of, relating to, or occurring at the start of something: beginning, inceptive, initial, initiatory, introductory, leadoff. The work of casting, boring, masonry, the transport of workmen, their establishment in an almost uninhabited country, the construction of furnaces and workshops, the plant, the powder, the projectile, and incipient expenses, would, according to the estimates, absorb nearly the whole.
90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. 
incipient caries. One of the two distinct stages in the development of a carious dental lesion. The first stage is the incipient lesion, marked by the appearance of a white spot. Microscopic pores course through the enamel to the subsurface demineralization, where the main body of the lesion is located.
in·cip·i·ent. adj. Beginning to exist or appear: detecting incipient tumors; an incipient personnel problem. [Latin. , present participle of. , to begin; see inception .]. The work of casting, boring, masonry, the transport of workmen, their establishment in an almost uninhabited country, the construction of furnaces and workshops, the plant, the powder, the projectile, and incipient expenses, would, according to the estimates, absorb nearly the whole.
Full Definition of INCIPIENT. — in·cip·i·ent·ly adverb. See incipient defined for English-language learners. See incipient defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
adjective. The definition of incipient is in the beginning stages. An example of incipient is a brand new idea for solving a scientific problem. 1 Incipient brain-disease compelled him to withdraw from official life in November 1863, and he died at Spandau on the 26th of August 1865. 2  It may lead to an incipient asphyxiation, as the supply of oxygen may be greatly interfered with and the escape of carbon dioxide may be almost stopped.
1 Indo-American relations have developed genuine, if incipient, contents. 2  Whether closer follow-up of cases of tuberculosis leads to earlier detection of incipient toxicity or other factors are at work is unclear. 1 His vision is informed by the hope and joy, as well as the melancholia and uncertainty, of that period of incipience. 2  But also, from its incipience around 1968, liberation theology has been surrounded by controversy because of its often-unabashed association with Marxist analysis.
in•cip•i•ent. beginning to exist or appear: an incipient cold. incipient-, s. of incipiēns, present participle of incipere; see inception ]. in•cip′i•ent•ly, adv. The work of casting, boring, masonry, the transport of workmen, their establishment in an almost uninhabited country, the construction of furnaces and workshops, the plant, the powder, the projectile, and incipient expenses, would, according to the estimates, absorb nearly the whole.