Wallboard. By far, the most popular wallboard for interior use is drywall. Water-resistant cement board holds up better in wet areas. Other wallboard materials include fiberboard, plywood and even plastic panels. Wallboard Vs. Drywall. Wallboard is a catch-all term for any material that's attached to studs to create finished wall surfaces. Drywall is...
Drywall (also known as plasterboard, wallboard, gypsum board) is a panel made of gypsum plaster pressed between two thick sheets of paper. It is used to make interior walls and ceilings. Drywall construction became prevalent as a speedier alternative to traditional lath and plaster. North America is one of the largest gypsum board users in the world with a total wallboard plant capacity of 42,000,000,000 square feet (3.9 × 10 9 m 2) per year (worldwide 85,000,000,000 square feet (7.9 × 10 9 m 2) per year).
Full Definition of WALLBOARD. : a structural boarding of any of various materials (as wood pulp, gypsum, or plastic) made in large rigid sheets and used especially for sheathing interior walls and ceilings. See wallboard defined for English-language learners. See wallboard defined for kids
Definition of WALLBOARD for Kids. : a building material (as of wood pulp) made in large stiff sheets and used especially inside walls and ceilings. : a structural boarding of any of various materials (as wood pulp, gypsum, or plastic) made in large rigid sheets and used especially for sheathing interior walls and ceilings. See wallboard defined for English-language learners.
Both countries use the metric system in building, and plasterboard is manufactured in thicknesses of 10 mm, 13 mm, and 16 mm, and sometimes other thicknesses up to 25 mm. Panels are commonly sold in 1200 x 2400 mm, 1200 x 4800 mm, and 1200 x 6000 mm sheets. North America is one of the largest gypsum board users in the world with a total wallboard plant capacity of 42,000,000,000 square feet (3.9 × 10 9 m 2) per year (worldwide 85,000,000,000 square feet (7.9 × 10 9 m 2) per year).
A contact center wallboard (also called an enterprise wallboard) is a visual communication tool used to display real time information related to contact center performance. The data displayed on the wallboard is customized to contact center agents, supervisors or managers. Configuration and display is usually team or group based. For example, a manager's wallboard will display real-time data that is different from the data being shown on the screen to service desk agents.
Noun. 1. wallboard-a wide flat board used to cover walls or partitions; made from plaster or wood pulp or other materials and used primarily to form the interior walls of houses. dry wall, drywall. beaver board-a light wallboard made of compressed wood pulp. wallboard. n. 1. (Building) a thin board made of materials, such as compressed wood fibres or gypsum plaster, between stiff paper, and used to cover walls, partitions, etc. (ˈwɔlˌbɔrd, -ˌboʊrd).
Drywall, also commonly referred to as sheetrock or wall board, is a lightweight cost efficient product for use on interior walls or ceiling panels in new construction, renovation and repair work. In residential construction the most commonly used sizes are 4 x 8 foot x ½ inch. 