I think the world would be a much better place. 1. Simply wish to join the church! That's it according to the official website for the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM), all that's needed to become a Pastafarian is to want to be one. You do not need to: 
The following are some of the fundamental pillars that make up the beliefs of the Pastafarian religion — however, you don't have to literally believe in them to be a member: 1  The supreme deity is known as the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM). 3. Study the sacred texts of Pastafarianism. For a great introduction to your new religion, try browsing any of the Pastafarian scriptures. The most important book to Pastafarians is the Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
The Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM) is the deity of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster or Pastafarianism (a portmanteau of pasta and Rastafarian), a social movement that promotes a light-hearted view of religion and opposes the teaching of intelligent design and creationism in public schools. After Henderson published the letter on his website, the Flying Spaghetti Monster rapidly became an Internet phenomenon and a symbol of opposition to the teaching of intelligent design
1 Learn about the basic pastafarian beliefs (a great noodly god, instead of saying ‘amen’, you say ‘RAmen’). 2  At every available opportunity, talk like and or dress as a pastafarian. 3  You should do this especially if you are going to be preaching his word. 4  Get rid of all your moral standards. 1 Pastafarians enjoy grog, wenches, and anything that can get you a day off of work. 2  Learn and celebrate all the holidays in our religion. 3  The most basic are every Friday (Our Sabbath), and Talk Like a Pirate Day (on September 19th). 4  If you choose to pray, end all your prayers with RAmen. 5  Most of all, have fun with it.
Tips. 1  Grog, wenches, and pasta are all welcome, but not necessary. 2  To learn more about our religion, visit venganza.org or buy the gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster book. 3  If anyone questions your religion, tell them about it. 4  Choose your Pastafarian sect carefully. 5  Read other wikihows on how to dress and talk like a pirate. 3. Study the sacred texts of Pastafarianism. For a great introduction to your new religion, try browsing any of the Pastafarian scriptures. The most important book to Pastafarians is the Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
1 At every available opportunity, talk like and or dress as a pastafarian. 2  You should do this especially if you are going to be preaching his word. 3  Get rid of all your moral standards. 4  Pastafarians enjoy grog, wenches, and anything that can get you a day off of work. 1 Pastafarians enjoy grog, wenches, and anything that can get you a day off of work. 2  Learn and celebrate all the holidays in our religion. 3  The most basic are every Friday (Our Sabbath), and Talk Like a Pirate Day (on September 19th). 4  If you choose to pray, end all your prayers with RAmen. 5  Most of all, have fun with it.
Behold the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM), today’s fastest growing carbohydrate-based religion. According to church founder Bobby Henderson, the universe and all life within it were created by a mystical and divine being: the Flying Spaghetti Monster. 
Simply wish to join the church! That's it — according to the official website for the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM), all that's needed to become a Pastafarian is to want to be one. You do not need to: 3. Study the sacred texts of Pastafarianism. For a great introduction to your new religion, try browsing any of the Pastafarian scriptures. The most important book to Pastafarians is the Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster.
How to become a Pastafarian. 1  Learn about the basic pastafarian beliefs (a great noodly god, instead of saying ‘amen’, you say ‘RAmen’). 2  At every available opportunity, talk like and or dress as a pastafarian. 3  You should do this especially if you are going to be preaching his word. 1 Pastafarians enjoy grog, wenches, and anything that can get you a day off of work. 2  Learn and celebrate all the holidays in our religion. 3  The most basic are every Friday (Our Sabbath), and Talk Like a Pirate Day (on September 19th). 4  If you choose to pray, end all your prayers with RAmen. 5  Most of all, have fun with it.