It is true that gelatin helps your fingernails get stronger. Another option is to take a protein supplement. There is one called Biotin. It is very affordable, and it helps your nails and hair. It comes in capsule form and can be bought at Walmart, or most any grocery or pharmacy. Report Abuse. Jello does contain gelatin, but the claim is for pure gelatin. To get the amount of recommended gelatin called for in the various media ads, you would have to eat several bowls of jello. There is no clinical trial evidence to support the claim that consuming gelatin will increase nail or hair strength!
Looky what I found in it: Knox brand Ad for their unflavored gelatin as a nail aid. This is a ad from Everyday Woman year 1956 March. You would be surprised what they worried about those years.. You had to drink unflavored gelatin for 3 months to get your nails better. Well like duh! I even found a page of the history of Knox Unflavored gelatin in fact: http://www.knoxgelatine.com/history.htm. This is something I found on the page about the nail product. A quote from that page: When James Knox died in 1958, his son became president of the company. Knox brand Ad for their unflavored gelatin as a nail aid. This is a ad from Everyday Woman year 1956 March. You would be surprised what they worried about those years..
Gelatin does contain some protein. However, if protein were responsible for improving brittle, peeling nails, gelatin would be a poor choice, given the fact that other foods are much higher in protein. Eating or drinking gelatin won't strengthen weak nails, nor will soaking your hands in gelatin.
Gelatin is a translucent, colorless, brittle, flavorless solid substance, derived from collagen found in animal bones. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceuticals, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing. Skin Health: Gelatin has amazing skin healing properties because it is a rich source of dietary collagen, which is the key protein in the body made up of amino acids. Gelatin makes up 25% to 35% of the total protein content of human body.
Knox Gelatin for Nail Growth. The makers of Knox brand gelatin are responsible for an enduring beauty myth. Photo Credit jelly image by Christopher Hall from Fotolia.com. Knox brand gelatin was the first product of its kind to make the marketing claim that gelatin made nails stronger, longer and grow faster. Although this is one beauty myth that has been dispelled by medical experts, some may still believe that Knox gelatin and similar brands have some effect on nail growth. Soaking your nails in Knox won&#039;t give you stronger nails, according to MayoClinic.Com. Nor will drinking or eating gelatin. The dietary supplement biotin, or vitamin B, may be beneficial for
Gelatin is LIKELY SAFE for most people in food amounts and POSSIBLY SAFE in the larger amounts used as medicine. There's some evidence that gelatin in doses up to 10 grams daily can be safely used for up to 6 months. GELATIN Overview Information. Gelatin is a protein made from animal products. Gelatin is used for weight loss and for treating osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and brittle bones (osteoporosis). Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is also used for improving hair quality and to shorten recovery after exercise and sports-related injury. In manufacturing, gelatin is used for preparation of foods, cosmetics, and medicine
One of the more enduring beauty myths is that gelatin gives you stronger, healthier nails. This claim may help the manufacturers of Knox gelatin successfully market their product to female consumers; however, drinking Knox gelatin or making any other changes to your diet won't help with peeling nails. However, if protein were responsible for improving brittle, peeling nails, gelatin would be a poor choice, given the fact that other foods are much higher in protein. Eating or drinking gelatin won't strengthen weak nails, nor will soaking your hands in gelatin.