Image of Panamanian Polleras, a red pollera de lujo, an older traditional pollera and a blue pollera de lujo. A pollera is a Spanish term for a big one-piece skirt used mostly in traditional festivities and folklore throughout Spanish-speaking Latin America. It is the National Costume of Panama. They are mainly made of cotton and wool, and you will usually see colorful flowers as designs on the pollera. Although they do have a dominant white color. Girls and women would generally own two polleras during their life: one before age 16 and one at adulthood.
A single pollera can cost from several hundred to several thousands of dollars and take up to a year to create. The gold and pearl mosquetas and tembleques that provides a pollera are generally passed down as heirlooms through generations. It is the National Costume of Panama. They are mainly made of cotton and wool, and you will usually see colorful flowers as designs on the pollera. Although they do have a dominant white color. Girls and women would generally own two polleras during their life: one before age 16 and one at adulthood.
As for the pollera montuna or the dress for daily use, a cotton skirt printed in floral design is commonly used in tropical climates and during summer seasons in colder regions. In the seventeenth century, as in any other time, contemporary with the beautiful court dresses there was the daily house dress, which in this epoch was generally white with a full skirt of two or three ruffles embroidered or appliqued in floral designs. This description is, simply, the pollera.
And, indeed, there is a lot to say about the panamanian woman, so many beginnings and so many endings, but no word, poem, song, verse, nor saloma, can equal what she is, what she feels, and what inspires her, as does the panamanian Pollera. The dresses also have different styles and there is a great variety and tradition that is respected and saved, while maintaining the pure art of the making of the pollera. In every detail of the embroideries and the movement, the empollerada can show the legacy of a proud Panama, rejoicing its roots and traditions.
Home » The Pollera of Panama. The Pollera is the product of an anonymous art that grew and was developed in the warmth of our countryside homes, in the midst of our pure feminine crafts. 
Those who know and are the ancestral art of its intricate making know that its beauty enamors and to see a woman dressed in a pollera is to be dominated by something without being able to decipher what it is. The dresses also have different styles and there is a great variety and tradition that is respected and saved, while maintaining the pure art of the making of the pollera. In every detail of the embroideries and the movement, the empollerada can show the legacy of a proud Panama, rejoicing its roots and traditions.
The Pollera is the most beautiful and admired national costume of the Americas. There are many tales related about its origin, but the popular opinion is that it was adapted from a gypsy dress worn in Spain at the time of the conquest of Peru and brought to Panama by the servants of the colonial families. It normally consists of a blouse or shirt and a two-tiered full skirt. A large tortoise shell comb embellished with pearls and gold is worn on top of the head and resembles a crown. This is the key piece and the gold hairpins and tembleques, which are quivering pins and worn in pairs, are placed on the head to give the appearance of a radiant halo.
Many people have spoken about the pollera. Some have indicated the exact point of origin for the costume, but such exactness is not compatible with folk material since one of the main characteristics of folklore is spontaneous and anonymous origin. In the seventeenth century, as in any other time, contemporary with the beautiful court dresses there was the daily house dress, which in this epoch was generally white with a full skirt of two or three ruffles embroidered or appliqued in floral designs. This description is, simply,
Pollera 3-star hotel This property has agreed to be part of our Preferred Property Program, which groups together properties that stand out because of their excellent service and quality/price ratio with competitive prices. ul. The room was small and the beds not too comfortable. Hotel Pollera is in a great location within a few minutes walk of the Main Square and 10 minutes walk of the train station.
The Polleras Of Panama. The traditional dress for women in Panama is the “Pollera”. This is a richly decorated dress with needlework in many designs, styles and colors. The woman wearing the pollera is further ornamented with gold and pearl jewelry. Naturally this is not every day wear but one used for special occasions. As with other national dresses in Latin America, the pollera has its origin in Spain of the 16th and 17th centuries. However, as in other parts of Latin America, in Panama it evolved into what it is today. A study as to where in Spain it originated has failed to reveal any particular location in the old country. The important fact is that its uniqueness developed in Panama and compares to no other national dress in the Americas.