Gianni Versace S.p.A. (. [ˈdʒanni verˈsaːtʃe]), usually referred to as Versace, is an Italian fashion company and trade name founded by Gianni Versace in 1978. The main collections within the Versace group are Versace Collection, Versus Versace and Versace Jeans. 
Born May 1955 in Reggio di Calabria, Italy Donatella Versace is current Vice-President of the Versace Group, as well as chief designer. Taking over her late brother Gianni Versace's design house and following his legacy, she has been highly successful with her sexy yet elegant designs. 
Donatella Versace (born 2 May 1955) is an Italian fashion designer and current Vice President of the Versace Group, as well as its chief designer. In October 2002, Gianni and Donatella's most famously designed Versace clothing was displayed in a special exhibit of the historical Victoria and Albert Museum of London to be honored for extraordinary fashion success and symbolism worldwide.
Early Life and Career. Fashion designer Gianni Versace was born on December 2, 1946, in Reggio di Calabria, Italy. He was raised in the world of design, learning his trade at the hands of his mother who ran her own dressmaking business. Versace went to work for his mother after completing high school. 
Gianni Versace was a highly original, vibrant, talented fashion designer who was also something of an exhibitionist. Once described by Time magazine as the youngest of Milan's young tyrants, he believed that art and fashion were synonymous. Meticulous management of the brand's image was always a crucial element in Versace's promotional strategy. He was one of the first Italian designers to hire world-class photographers, such as Richard Avedon, Bruce Weber and Steven Meisel, to shoot his advertising campaigns.
Versace, Gianni, 1946–97, Italian fashion designer, b. Reggio Calabria. A dressmaker's son, Versace worked for several Italian designers before opening (1978) his own Milan studio in partnership with his brother Santo and sister Donatella. 1 Gianni Versace-Biography of Gianni Versace, The superstar Italian fashion designer who was killed in Miami Beach. 2  Andrew Cunanan-Andrew Cunanan was found dead in a Florida boat house after a killing spree that included Italian ...
The female Versace look is well known by all – young, aggressive, skin-tight, low cut, with sky-high slits on the skirts. Versace was among the first to revive the cat suit, bring back the mini skirt, use bright neon colors, show tights worn as trousers and bring back the bustier and bead it. Meticulous management of the brand's image was always a crucial element in Versace's promotional strategy. He was one of the first Italian designers to hire world-class photographers, such as Richard Avedon, Bruce Weber and Steven Meisel, to shoot his advertising campaigns.
Born in Italy in 1955, Donatella Versace grew up with two major fashion influences. Her mother was a dressmaker and her older brother, Gianni Versace, was a budding designer. She went to work for her brother in the late 1970s, serving as his muse and adviser. Born on May 2, 1955, in Reggio Calabria, Italy, designer Donatella Versace is one of best known names in fashion today. She is the younger sister of the late designer Gianni Versace. Donatella and Gianni learned about designing from their mother, who had a dressmaking business.
About Designer: Versace. This Italian fashion house was founded in 1978 by Gianni Versace and it became well known for its bright colors and daring styles. Gianni Versace introduced his signature fragrance in 1982, Gianni Versace Perfume, and it was followed by V’E Versace in 1989, Versus Cologne for Men in 1990. Baby Rose Jeans Perfume and Blonde were launched in 1995 as well as Red Jeans Perfume.