The immune system is a system of many biological structures and processes within an organism that protects against disease. To function properly, an immune system must detect a wide variety of agents, known as pathogens, from viruses to parasitic worms, and distinguish them from the organism's own healthy tissue. The ability of the immune system to respond to pathogens is diminished in both the young and the elderly, with immune responses beginning to decline at around 50 years of age due to immunosenescence. In developed countries, obesity, alcoholism, and drug use are common causes of poor immune function.
Hormones can only affect target cells that have the appropriate receptors. This property of hormones is known as specificity. Hormone specificity explains how each hormone can have specific effects in widespread parts of the body. Many hormones produced by the endocrine system are classified as tropic hormones. A tropic hormone is a hormone that is able to trigger the release of another hormone in another gland. 
You are here: Thyroid gland. Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: January 14, 2015. The thyroid gland is part of the endocrine system and is responsible for producing and releasing thyroid hormones into the bloodstream. 
Adrenal Glands and the Immune System. Janice Wittenberg R.N. in her book, The Rebellious Body, comments on adrenal glands by saying that they can, as a result of stress and nutritional deficiencies, produce hormones that inhibit the production of prostaglandins that interfere with immune response. See Immune 101. Fast Facts. 1  An imbalance in thyroid and adrenal hormones, testosterone, the estrogen’s (estrone, estradiol, estriol), and progesterone can affect the immune system. 2  Our chemical environment (xenoestrogens) and nutrition are both contributing factors to hormone imbalance.
The Health Psychology Connection to the Immune System. The Immune System works extremely hard trying to destroy and eliminate stress and anxiety reactions. The adrenal glands produce a hormone called cortisol that is discharged during moments of tension in an attempt to reduce the pressure. The thymus gland and bone marrow form and mature the cells. The peripheral immune system includes the blood, lymph nodes, and the spleen. The endocrine system produces hormones and supports the central nervous system by releasing the relevant ones that allow us to survive.
Cortisol is a powerful anti-inflammatory and helps the body deal with stress and infections. This defect, in turn, causes a domino-effect producing too much estrogen and not enough thyroid hormones. When the endocrine (hormonal) system is out of balance the end result is low antibodies and a poor immune system. He uncovered a hidden adrenal gland defect that caused an endocrine-immune system imbalance. His research showed this endocrine-immune system dysfunction was caused primarily by poor genetics and over-breeding with a poor nutritional diet of dry kibbles, environmental pollutants, stress and age being secondary factors.
They combine with a third system, the immune, to protect the body against pathogens that could threaten the organism's viability. The blood is responsible for the following: 1  Transportation of gases (oxygen O 2) and carbon dioxide (CO 2), chemical substances (hormones, nutrients, salts), and cells that defend the body. 
Dr. Jesse Stoff (M.D.). It’s also important to note that no hormone works in isolation from other hormones; they all function within a complex, subtle web of interconnectedness. Reference: Dr. John Lee Many hormones have an effect on the immune system, disease and each other. See Immune 101. Fast Facts. 1  An imbalance in thyroid and adrenal hormones, testosterone, the estrogen’s (estrone, estradiol, estriol), and progesterone can affect the immune system. 2  Our chemical environment (xenoestrogens) and nutrition are both contributing factors to hormone imbalance.
For instance your endocrine system is a network that produces, stores and secretes hormones responsible for your appetite and energy level while your immune system protects each of the organs in your endocrine system from harmful infection. Disorders of the endocrine system impacting the thyroid or adrenal glands can result in metabolic changes that cause weight gain or impact the strength of your immune system.