Use one of the work formulas to write a rational equation, for example. We know r, the combined work rate, and we know W, the amount of work that must be done. What we don't know is how much time it will take to do the required work at the designated rate. t = 3 ¾ hours. Some work problems have multiple machines or people working on a project together for the same amount of time but at different rates. In that case, we can add their individual work rates together to get a total work rate.
Note that rational number can be represented as a ratio of two integers and as a number with finite decimal places or with infinite but repeating decimals, like 0.33333333.... which is 1/3. Irrational number can not be represented as a ratio of two integers. 
Any rational function r(x) = , where q(x) is not the zero polynomial. Because by definition a rational function may have a variable in its denominator, the domain and range of rational functions do not usually contain all the real numbers. There is special symbolism to describe the behavior of a function in certain situations, depending on the behavior of the independent variable.
Some Real-Life Applications of. Rational Functions. There are many situations in the real world where an application of a rational function is used as a representation. There are three well-known situations that follow under this category of rational functions. Calculating pH with a logarithmic function. A logarithmic function can be used to calculate the pH of a substance based on the concentration of hydrogen ions. This is the logarithmic equation that is used for determining pH.
From anesthesia to economics, rational functions are used in multiple areas of study to help predict outcomes. Learn how to apply the formula for rational functions in difference circumstances to provide a better understanding of a situation and what is needed to achieve desired results. 
Rational expressions and rational equations can be useful tools for representing real life situations and for finding answers to real problems. In particular, they are quite good for describing distance-speed-time questions, and modeling multi-person work problems. Some work problems have multiple machines or people working on a project together for the same amount of time but at different rates. In that case, we can add their individual work rates together to get a total work rate.
Note that the function itself is rational, even though the value of f (x) is irrational for all x. Every polynomial function is a rational function with. A function that cannot be written in this form, such as, is not a rational function. The adjective irrational is not generally used for functions. 
Rational Exponent Examples. In a rational exponent, the denominator, or bottom number, is the root, while the numerator, or top number, is the new exponent. In the following examples, the carrot symbol indicates that the right half is the exponent of the left. 
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehoweducation. Rational expressions in math can be used in a wide variety of ways in real life, including in areas like distance measurement. Find out how rational expressions can be used in real life with help from an experienced math professional in this free video clip. Expert: Drew Moyer.