Best Answer: Tarnish is a thin layer of corrosion that forms over copper, brass, silver, aluminum, and other similar metals as their outermost layer undergoes a chemical reaction. Tarnish does not always result from the sole effects of oxygen in the air. What is the sole difference between the metals that corrodes and the metals that tarnish. For. E.g. appearance for Statue of Liberty in green colour, is because of patina formed over the years on copper metal, which according to my understanding is termed as metal being tarnished. For E.g. iron chain links of..
Tarnish is a product of a chemical reaction between a metal and a nonmetal compound, especially oxygen and sulfur dioxide. It is usually a metal oxide, the product of oxidation. Sometimes it is a metal sulfide. The metal oxide sometimes reacts with water to make the hydroxide; and carbon dioxide to make the carbonate. Tarnish actually preserves the underlying metal in outdoor use, and in this form is called patina. The formation of patina is necessary in applications such as copper roofing, and outdoor copper, bronze, and brass statues and fittings. Patina is the name given to tarnish on copper based metals.
As verbs the difference between tarnish and besmirch is that tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation while besmirch is to make dirty; to soil. As a noun tarnish is oxidation or discoloration, especially of a decorative metal exposed to air. As verbs the difference between metal and tarnish is that metal is to make a road using crushed rock, stones etc while tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation. As a adjective metal is (music) characterized by strong, fast drum-beats and distorted guitars.
As nouns the difference between tarnish and blemish is that tarnish is oxidation or discoloration, especially of a decorative metal exposed to air while blemish is a small flaw which spoils the appearance of something, a stain, a spot. As verbs the difference between metal and tarnish is that metal is to make a road using crushed rock, stones etc while tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation. As a adjective metal is (music) characterized by strong, fast drum-beats and distorted guitars.
As verbs the difference between oxidize and tarnish is that oxidize is (chemistry|transitive) to combine with oxygen or otherwise make an oxide while tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation. As a noun tarnish is oxidation or discoloration, especially of a decorative metal exposed to air. As verbs the difference between metal and tarnish is that metal is to make a road using crushed rock, stones etc while tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation. As a adjective metal is (music) characterized by strong, fast drum-beats and distorted guitars.
show more What is the sole difference between the metals that corrodes and the metals that tarnish. For. E.g. appearance for Statue of Liberty in green colour, is because of patina formed over the years on copper metal, which according to my understanding is termed as metal being tarnished. For E.g. iron chain links of...
Tarnish is a thin layer of corrosion that forms over copper, brass, silver, aluminum, and other similar metals as their outermost layer undergoes a chemical reaction.Oxidation … is defined as the interaction between oxygen molecules and all the different substances they may contact, from metal to living tissue. For example, silver needs hydrogen sulfide to tarnish; it does not tarnish with only oxygen. It often appears as a dull, gray or black film or coating over metal whereas oxidation usually results in brown or green. Hope it helps!! :).
Tarnish is a thin layer of corrosion that forms over copper, brass, silver, aluminum, and other similar metals as their outermost layer undergoes a chemical reaction.Oxidation is defined as the interaction between oxygen molecules and all the different substances they may contact, from metal to living tissue. Oxide is a monatomic (single-atom) ion consisting of an oxygen atom with a 2- charge (O2-). An oxide can also be just about any compound that contains oxygen in the 2- oxidati … on state.
As verbs the difference between discolor and tarnish is that discolor is to change or lose color while tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation. As a noun tarnish is oxidation or discoloration, especially of a decorative metal exposed to air. As verbs the difference between metal and tarnish is that metal is to make a road using crushed rock, stones etc while tarnish is to oxidize or discolor due to oxidation. As a adjective metal is (music) characterized by strong, fast drum-beats and distorted guitars.