You can find out where the majority of the Slaven families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Slaven families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
Gaelic Meaning: The name Slaven is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Slaven is: Mountain. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. 
, Oxford University Press, besides the Irish origin, the surname may be Jewish from Belarus: Slaven - metronymic (derived from one's mother or maternal ancestors) from the Yiddish female personal name Slave (from the Slavic word slava 'glory', 'fame', 'praise') plus the eastern Slavic possessive suffix-in.. Although our surname is fairly uncommon, it doesn't mean that we all have the same background. In fact, there are several different origins and meanings, depending on where our ancestors lived a few hundred years ago.
Our purpose is to be a central location to collect and exchange information for Slaven, Slevin, Slavin, Slavey, and other surname variations. As a registered one-name study, the scope of this exchange is world wide. 
House of Names also gives an Irish origin for the surname, with variations including Slaven, Slavin, Slaving, Slevin, Sleving, Slevan, Sleavin and others. Although our surname is fairly uncommon, it doesn't mean that we all have the same background. In fact, there are several different origins and meanings, depending on where our ancestors lived a few hundred years ago.
[ 2 syll. sla-ven, sl-av-en ] The baby boy name Slaven is pronounced as SL EY VAHN †. Slaven is used predominantly in the English language, and its origin is Slavonic and Irish Gaelic. From Slavonic roots, its meaning is Slav. Slaven is a variant of the name Slavin (English). The name Slavenka (Slavic) is the female version of Slaven. Slaven is an unusual baby name for boys
Meaning of Slaven. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Slaven means-mountain. Other origins for the name Slaven include-Scottish, Gaelic.The name Slaven is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-mountain. 
Slaven Bilić (. [slaʋen slâʋen] ; bǐːlit͡ɕ born 11 september) 1968 is a Retired croatian professional footballer and current manager Of english Club West Ham. united Slaven Bilić, together with Aljoša Asanović, managed the Croatian U-21 team for two years during the qualification rounds for the U-21 European championship of 2006. Their team went through the group stage but lost in playoff to Serbia and Montenegro.
Please use this list of Gaelic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Slaven in Gaelic origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. 
Slaven, Slavin, Slevin-Ancestry.com states that the surname is a reduced form of O'Slavin, an Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó, 'sleibhin sléibhín Descendant', of sleibhin sléibhín a name probably 'derived' (from sliabh mountain perhaps originally a Short; form Of).. donnshleibhe donnshléibhe see dunleavy Although our surname is fairly uncommon, it doesn't mean that we all have the same background. In fact, there are several different origins and meanings, depending on where our ancestors lived a few hundred years ago.