The blue-ringed octopuses (genus Hapalochlaena) are three (or perhaps four) octopus species that live in tide pools and coral reefs in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, from Japan to Australia. Their primary habitat is around southern New South Wales, South Australia, and northern Western Australia. 
An octopus (/ˈɒktəpʊs/ or /ˈɒktəpəs/ ; plural: octopuses, octopi, or octopodes; see below) is a cephalopod mollusc of the order Octopoda. It has two eyes and four pairs of arms and, like other cephalopods, it is bilaterally symmetric. An octopus has a beak, with its mouth at the center point of the arms. An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopuses are venomous, but only one group, the blue-ringed octopus, is known to be deadly to humans. Around 300 species are recognized, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopod species.
The Life Span of an Octopus. Octopuses usually live only a short time after mating. Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. More than 250 species of octopuses are known, most of them living only long enough to mature and reproduce. Adulthood & Reproduction. Depending on the octopus species, adulthood is usually reached after only one to two years. The male will seek multiple female mates. Within months of mating with a female, the male will actually die. Consequently, males do not live as long in the wild as females do.
Octopus Endings. The length of time that passes between hatching, reproduction and death varies among octopus species. Common octopuses, for example, may live only two years, while giant octopuses can live as long as three years but up to five years as long as they don't mate. The giant Pacific octopus may between three to five years in the wild. Adulthood & Reproduction. Depending on the octopus species, adulthood is usually reached after only one to two years. The male will seek multiple female mates. Within months of mating with a female, the male will actually die. Consequently, males do not live as long in the wild as females do.
The appendages of octopuses are called arms, not tentacles. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The giant Pacific octopus grows bigger and lives longer than any other octopus species. The size record is held by a specimen that was 30 feet (9.1 meters) across and weighed more than 600 pounds (272 kilograms). Averages are more like 16 feet (5 meters) and 110 lbs (50 kilograms). They live to be about four years old, with both males and females dying soon after breeding. Females live long enough to tend fastidiously to their eggs, but they do not eat during this months-long brooding period, and usually die soon afterwards.
Life span of octopuses depends upon their type (species). It  may vary from 6 months to a couple of years. The larger ones live  longer than those that are smaller in size.  Octopuses are bottom dwellers. However, as they hatch from the  eggs, the young ones swim to the surface.
Octopuses have a relatively short life expectancy, with some species living for as little as six months. Larger species, such as the giant pacific octopus, may live for up to five years under suitable circumstances. An octopus trails its eight arms behind it as it swims. All octopuses are venomous, but only one group, the blue-ringed octopus, is known to be deadly to humans. Around 300 species are recognized, which is over one-third of the total number of known cephalopod species.
It depends on the species. The giant Pacific octopus can live about five years.       They live for up to 5 years. Depending on how they are kept and what ty … pe they are.