The energy released due to the oxidation of glucose [glucose: a simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration] is used to synthesize ATP from adenosine diphosphate or ADP and inorganic phosphate or Pi. Fats and proteins can also be used as respiratory substrates. 
ATP to ADP-Energy Release. This is done by a simple process, in which one of the phosphate molecules is broken off, therefore reducing the ATP from 3 phosphates to 2, forming ADP (Adenosine Diphosphate after removing one of the phosphates {Pi}). ATP is created via respiration in both animals and plants. The difference with plants is the fact they attain their food from elsewhere (see photosynthesis). In essence, materials are harnessed to create ATP for biological processes. The energy can be created via cell respiration.
Report Abuse. Adenosine Triphosphate ..The ATP molecule is composed of three components. At the centre is a sugar molecule, ribose (the same sugar that forms the basis of DNA). Attached to one side of this is a base (a group consisting of linked rings of carbon and nitrogen atoms); in this case the base is adenine. The other side of the sugar is attached to a string of phosphate groups. These phosphates are the key to the activity of ATP. All living things, plants and animals, require a continual supply of energy in order to function. The energy is used for all the processes which keep the organism alive.
· just now. Report Abuse. Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide that is most important as a molecular currency of intracellular energy transfer. In this role, ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. 
Cellular respiration is therefore a process in which the energy in glucose is transferred to ATP. In cellular respiration, ADP is used in the Krebs cycle, and makes ATP, which … can be used as energy. It can be used to make bonds and do cytoskeletal movement like muscle contraction in humans. It is also used to start the process of glycolysis, which breaks sugar in the cytoplasm. found this useful. ATP comes from the breakdown of glucose. Breaking this molecule  produces energy. The energy is trapped in the ADP molecule by  adding a P(phosphate)to ADP This can happen i … n the cytosol or the  mitrochrondia. Answered.
Adenosine triphosphate. ATP is the abbreviation for adenosine triphosphate: an important chemical in the cells of living organisms that stores energy and releases it when it is needed. Source(s): http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictiona... Goldenpiano · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.
What does ADP stand for? adenosine diphosphate 4. What is the relationship between ATP and ADP (how does it change from one form to another)? When ADP gains a phosphate, it then becomes ATP (is now ready to be used) When ATP loses a phosphate, it then becomes ADP (will lose a phosphate when energy is used) 5. 
In this context Anaerobic respiration occurs when there is a lack of oxygen in the host (animal). Instead of oxygen, NAP+ is the final electron acceptor. For 1 molecule of glucose (C6H12O6), only 2 molecules of ATP can be produced in anaerobic respiration, compared to 38 ATPs in aerobic respiration.. Follow. ATP is the abbreviation for adenosine triphosphate: an important chemical in the cells of living organisms that stores energy and releases it when it is needed. Source(s): http://dictionary.cambridge.org/dictiona... Goldenpiano · 4 years ago. Thumbs up.
ATP stands for Adenosine Tri-Phosphate, and is the energy used by an organism in its daily operations. It consists of an adenosine molecule and three inorganic phosphates. After a simple reaction breaking down ATP to ADP, the energy released from the breaking of a molecular bond is the energy we use to keep ourselves alive. ATP is created via respiration in both animals and plants. The difference with plants is the fact they attain their food from elsewhere (see photosynthesis). In essence, materials are harnessed to create ATP for biological processes. The energy can be created via cell respiration.
Save. ATP stands for adenosine triphosphate. It is called the molecular currency of energy. ATP is a nucleotide composed of the nitrogenous base adenine, the pentose sugar ribose and three phosphate radicals. The phosphate bond contains about 12,000 calories of energy per mole of ATP under the physical conditions of the body. 