“Cloud computing” means a model for enabling ubiquitous, convenient, on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources (e.g., networks, servers, storage, applications, and services) that can be rapidly provisioned and ... The CHIPS magazine mobile app for the Android and iOS operating systems is now available. The app is designed to provide users streamlined access to the latest articles and the ability to tag articles of interest for future reference.
The Department of the Navy Enterprise Software Licensing (DON ESL) team awarded a follow-on Blanket Purchase Agreement to the first agreement for Microsoft licenses and software assurance (SA) on 15 May 2015. The CHIPS magazine mobile app for the Android and iOS operating systems is now available. The app is designed to provide users streamlined access to the latest articles and the ability to tag articles of interest for future reference.
DoD ESI is represented on the DoD Strategic Sourcing Board of Directors (SSDB), and on the Federal Strategic Sourcing Initiative (FSSI) IT Commodity Team. DoD ESI also offers selected IT services, and the team regularly shares information about DoD Component IT hardware enterprise acquisition practices. Additional information is provided in the DoD ESI Overview.
The. network now operates in the United Kingdom, South Africa, Spain, Belgium, Germany, Singapore/Malaysia, Hong Kong, Australia, Japan, Mexico, Brazil and Toronto, offering medical, professional, and product-liability claim management in more than 165 countries. 
This DFARS subpart, 239.76, was added August 26, 2015 and prescribes policies and procedures for the acquisition of cloud computing services. The CHIPS magazine mobile app for the Android and iOS operating systems is now available. The app is designed to provide users streamlined access to the latest articles and the ability to tag articles of interest for future reference.
This is an official Department of Defense website (GILS Registration #11398) sponsored by the Department of Defense Chief Information Officer (DoD CIO). The purpose of this Web Site is to facilitate effective information flow about the DoD Enterprise Software Initiative (DoD ESI). The CHIPS magazine mobile app for the Android and iOS operating systems is now available. The app is designed to provide users streamlined access to the latest articles and the ability to tag articles of interest for future reference.
The ESI vision is “Point and Click IT Shopping at the Lowest Cost”, using the Internet. ESI can use the Defense Working Capital Fund (DWCF) to provide “up-front money” for initial wholesale software buys. This funding process assures maximum leverage of DoD’s combined buying power, producing large software discounts. The BIC also approved extension of the project to establish a Virtual Information Technology Marketplace (VITM) for online purchasing of Information Technology, located at http://www.vitm.gov.
The resources you need to plan the future you want. To make your re-employment process easier, we've consolidated a number of employment resources, including job search links, networking and professional development resources in the right-hand column of this page. 1 The scholarship can only be applied to training in Project/Program Management (PMC), IT Project Management (ITP) and Business Analysis (BAP) courses (i.e. public classroom, e-Training or virtual classroom).
ESI Web Site Upgrades Completed. The DoD ESI web site, www.esi.mil, is now online after a recent outage for maintenance and upgrades. Please report any ESI web site issues to the site administrator by clicking the ESI Website Administrator link at the bottom any page on ESI.MIL. Use the Ask SPM to inquire about a specific ESI Agreement or submit a question or comment to a Software Product Manager (SPM). DoD ESI also offers selected IT services, and the team regularly shares information about DoD Component IT hardware enterprise acquisition practices. Additional information is provided in the DoD ESI Overview.
The Enterprise Software Initiative (ESI) is a joint project designed to implement a true software enterprise management process within the Department of Defense (DoD). The BIC also approved extension of the project to establish a Virtual Information Technology Marketplace (VITM) for online purchasing of Information Technology, located at http://www.vitm.gov.