Malignant Tumors. A malignant tumor is a group of diseased cells defined by one of three characteristics: uncontrolled growth, invasion and damage of healthy cells, or metastasizing (spreading) to other organs of the body. They differ from benign tumors, which do not spread or affect other areas of the body
Benign tumors aren’t cancerous. They can often be removed, and, in most cases, they do not come back. Cells in benign tumours do not spread to other parts of the body. Malignant tumors are cancerous and are made up of cells that grow out of control. Cells in these tumours can invade nearby tissues and spread to other parts of the body. Sometimes cells move away from the original (primary) cancer site and spread to other organs and bones where they can continue to grow and form another tumour at that site. This is known as metastasis or secondary cancer. Metastases keep the name of the original cancer location.
Cancer, also known as a malignant tumor or malignant neoplasm, is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body. Not all tumors are cancerous; benign tumors do not spread to other parts of the body. Metastasis is the spread of cancer to other locations in the body. The new tumors are called metastatic tumors, while the original is called the primary tumor. Almost all cancers can metastasize. Most cancer deaths are due to cancer that has spread from its primary site to other organs (metastasized).
Benign tumors are non-malignant/non-cancerous tumor. A benign tumor is usually localized, and does not spread to other parts of the body. Most benign tumors respond well to treatment. However, if left untreated, some benign tumors can grow large and lead to serious disease because of their size. Malignant tumors are cancerous growths. They are often resistant to treatment, may spread to other parts of the body and they sometimes recur after they were removed. cancer-. A cancer is another word for a malignant tumor (a malignant neoplasm).
Malignant cancer is any form of cancer or growth that can spread to other parts of the body in a process called metastasis. It is compared to benign growths or cancers that do not easily spread to other parts of the body and may be much easier to treat. Tumors can grow in areas of the body such as the brain and be malignant or benign. Any part of the body can host a malignant tumor. Brain and other tumors must be diagnosed to determine if they are benign or malignant. Malignant cancer may need to be removed through a surgical procedure
1 Malignant tumors grow by invading nearby cells and spread to other parts of the body through a process called metastasis. 2  Some malignant tumors are removed through surgical procedures. Malignant tumors are cancerous growths which expand quickly and can metastasize, or spread to other areas of the body.
Benign brain tumors are noncancerous. Malignant primary brain tumors are cancers that originate in the brain, typically grow faster than benign tumors, and aggressively invade surrounding tissue. Although brain cancer rarely spreads to other organs, it will spread to other parts of the brain and central nervous system. 
Malignant mesothelioma is a cancer that starts in cells in the linings of certain parts of the body, especially in the linings of the chest or abdomen. Cancer starts when cells start to grow out of control. Cells in nearly any part of the body can become cancer. A cancerous tumor of the mesothelium is called a malignant mesothelioma, although this is often shortened to just mesothelioma. Mesotheliomas can start in 4 main areas in the body. 1  Pleural mesotheliomas start in the chest. 2  About 3 out of 4 mesotheliomas are pleural mesotheliomas.
Tumor is not synonymous with cancer. While cancer is by definition malignant, a tumor can be benign, precancerous, or malignant. The terms mass and nodule are often used synonymously with tumor. Generally speaking, however, the term tumor is used generically, without reference to the physical size of the lesion. A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ.