1 If your project involves making observations and doing experiments, you should probably follow the Scientific Method. 2  If your project involves designing, building, and testing something, you should probably follow the Engineering Design Process. Key Info. 1  The engineering design process is a series of steps that engineers follow to come up with a solution to a problem. 2  Many times the solution involves designing a product (like a machine or computer code) that meets certain criteria and/or accomplishes a certain task.
If you haven't already done so, please read the preamble. It contains important background information to help you understand the content of this webpage. Project scope definition is a core project planning process (see figure 6.x). It involves identifying and describing the work that is needed to produce the product of the project in sufficient detail to ensure that: 1  The project team understands what it must do. If this process is poorly done, it is unlikely that the rest of the project planning will be well-done. Special Considerations. In performing this process, the following factors will often have to be given special consideration: 1  Product scope.
Project management is the discipline of carefully projecting or planning, organizing, motivating and controlling resources to achieve specific goals and meet specific success criteria. Traditionally, project management includes a number of elements: four to five process groups, and a control system. Regardless of the methodology or terminology used, the same basic project management processes will be used.
To help you respond quickly, a project change management plan describes what happens when deviations occur. It's not intended to prevent change; rather, its purpose is to outline a process that makes clear how change will be communicated, how decisions will be made, and how the project will adapt accordingly. Some of your stakeholders, or even your project team members, may feel that putting change control in place is your way of avoiding the dreaded scope creep, and that you are unwilling to be flexible and do what is best for your customer and the business. It's important to dispel this perception.
If you are hiring a contractor to do the work, having it inspected reassures you that the work is meeting the safety requirements established in the statewide building code. When this inspection is done by someone who is trained in the field for the type of work you are doing, it brings a certain value to the project. There is no need to worry about a surprise inspection, in fact, inspectors only come when you call and schedule an appointment. How the inspection process works if you are doing the project yourself: 1  When a project is ready to be inspected you need to call and schedule an inspectio
Project close. Closing a project is not the most exciting part of the project lifecycle, but, if you don't do it properly, you may obstruct the ongoing delivery of benefits to the organization. Make sure you do the following: 1  Complete and store documentation. Approvers may include the project board, project sponsor, or key stakeholders.) Once the deliverables are approved, the phase is completed and the project team can pass through the gate to the next phase. This is why the term stage/gate is used so often in project management. Find Out More.
Completing a project is not the same thing as ending the project management process. Simply finishing doesn't ensure that the organization benefits from the project's outcome. 
The defining characteristic of process vs. project is repeatability vs. uniqueness. Process can mean something different. 1  Process is a repetitive collection of interrelated tasks aimed at achieving a certain goal. 2  Project is a unique endeavour with a beginning and an end undertaken to achieve a goal. 
Permit Inspection Process. One of the most valuable steps in the permitting process is having the work looked at by someone who knows how it should look. If you are doing the work yourself, then it is another set of eyes checking things out. There is no need to worry about a surprise inspection, in fact, inspectors only come when you call and schedule an appointment. How the inspection process works if you are doing the project yourself: 1  When a project is ready to be inspected you need to call and schedule an inspectio
In this article, you’ll learn about the 8-step business analysis process that you can apply whether you are in an agile environment or a traditional one, whether you are purchasing off-the-shelf software or building custom code, whether you are responsible for a multi-million dollar project or a one-week project. First, take a look at this process flow below which shows how the 8 steps fit together and how you might iterate through them on a typical business analyst project.