HRT (also known as hormone therapy, menopausal hormone therapy, and estrogen replacement therapy) uses female hormones -- estrogen and progesterone -- to treat common symptoms of menopause and aging. Estrogen/Progesterone/Progestin Hormone Therapy: This is often called combination therapy, since it combines doses of estrogen and progestin, the synthetic form of progesterone. It’s meant for women who still have their uterus. The biggest debate about HRT is whether its risks outweigh its benefits
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is any form of hormone therapy wherein the patient, in the course of medical treatment, receives hormones, either to supplement a lack of naturally occurring hormones, or to substitute other hormones for naturally occurring hormones. Common forms of hormone replacement therapy include: 1 Hormone replacement therapy for menopause is based on the idea that the treatment may prevent discomfort caused by diminished circulating estrogen and progesterone hormones, or in the case of the surgically or prematurely menopausal, that it may prolong life and may reduce incidence of dementia.
Hormone therapy or hormonal therapy is the use of hormones in medical treatment. Treatment with hormone antagonists may also referred to as hormonal therapy or antihormone therapy. The most general classes of hormone therapy are oncologic hormone therapy and hormone replacement therapy, of which there are various kinds (e.g., for menopause, for male menopause, or for gender change).
Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is given to some women whose estrogen and progesterone levels drop significantly because of the menopause. Estrogen and progesterone are hormones. HRT tops up a woman's levels of essential hormones. HRT may also refer to male hormonal treatment, as well as for individuals who undergo a sex change. This article focuses entirely on HRT for women whose problem is caused by the menopause. HRT is approved for the relief of menopausal symptoms and the prevention or treatment of osteoporosis. Below are some other benefits linked to HRT: With a sigh of relief, British doctors received new guidelines regarding HRT from the British Menopause Society and Women's Health Concern in May 2013.
Hormonal therapy medicines are whole-body (systemic) treatment for hormone-receptor-positive breast cancers. Hormone receptors are like ears on breast cells that listen to signals from hormones. These signals turn on growth in cells that have receptors. Most breast cancers are hormone-receptor-positive. 
To help relieve these symptoms, some women use hormones. This is called menopausal hormone therapy (MHT). This approach used to be called hormone replacement therapy or HRT. MHT is a more current, umbrella term that describes several different hormone combinations available in a variety of forms and doses. 
Some cancers use these hormones to grow. Hormone therapy for cancer is the use of medicines to block the effects of hormones. It does not work for all types of cancer. Doctors use hormone therapy for people with cancers that are hormone sensitive or hormone dependent. 