1. a. A grass such as wheat, oats, or corn, the starchy grains of which are used as food. b. The grain of such a grass. 2. Any of several other plants or their edible seeds or fruit, such as buckwheat or certain species of amaranth. 3. 1. any plant of the grass family, as wheat, rye, oats, or corn, yielding an edible grain. 2. the grain itself. 3. some edible preparation of it, esp. a breakfast food. 4. of or pertaining to grain or the plants producing it.
Wheat was the second most-produced cereal in 2009; world production in that year was 682 million tons, after maize, and with rice as a close third. This grain is grown on more land area than any other commercial food. World trade in wheat is greater than for all other crops combined. Wheat. Wheat is a cereal grain, originally from the Levant region of the Near East and Ethiopian Highlands, but now cultivated worldwide. In 2010, world production of wheat was 651 million tons, making it the third most-produced cereal after maize and rice.
cereal. n. 1. (Plants) any grass that produces an edible grain, such as oat, rye, wheat, rice, maize, sorghum, and millet. 2. (Plants) the grain produced by such a plant. 3. (Cookery) any food made from this grain, esp breakfast food. 4. (Plants) (modifier) of or relating to any of these plants or their products: cereal farming.
1. any plant of the grass family, as wheat, rye, oats, or corn, yielding an edible grain. 2. the grain itself. 3. some edible preparation of it, esp. a breakfast food. 4. of or pertaining to grain or the plants producing it. 2. (Plants) the grain produced by such a plant. 3. (Cookery) any food made from this grain, esp breakfast food. 4. (Plants) (modifier) of or relating to any of these plants or their products: cereal farming.
Cereal is a grass cultivated for the edible components of their grain, composed of the endosperm, germ, and bran. Cereal grains are grown in greater quantities and provide more food energy worldwide than any other type of crop; they are therefore staple crops. 
ce·re·al. n. 1. a. A grass such as wheat, oats, or corn, the starchy grains of which are used as food. b. The grain of such a grass. 2. Any of several other plants or their edible seeds or fruit, such as buckwheat or certain species of amaranth. 3. 2. (Plants) the grain produced by such a plant. 3. (Cookery) any food made from this grain, esp breakfast food. 4. (Plants) (modifier) of or relating to any of these plants or their products: cereal farming.
For breakfast cereal, see Breakfast cereal. For food grains in general, see Food grain. For other uses, see Cereal (disambiguation) . A cereal is any true grass cultivated for the edible components of its grain (botanically, a type of fruit called a caryopsis), composed of the endosperm, germ, and bran. In their natural form (as in whole grain), they are a rich source of vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, fats, oils, and protein. When refined by the removal of the bran and germ, the remaining endosperm is mostly carbohydrate.
1. (Plants) any grass that produces an edible grain, such as oat, rye, wheat, rice, maize, sorghum, and millet. 2. (Plants) the grain produced by such a plant. 3. (Cookery) any food made from this grain, esp breakfast food. 4. (Plants) (modifier) of or relating to any of these plants or their products: cereal farming. 1. any plant of the grass family, as wheat, rye, oats, or corn, yielding an edible grain. 2. the grain itself. 3. some edible preparation of it, esp. a breakfast food. 4. of or pertaining to grain or the plants producing it.
Whole grains: Increasing demand for healthier options will enable modest growth. The Cereal Production market research report provides key industry analysis and industry statistics, measures market size, analyzes current and future industry trends and shows market share for the industry’s largest companies. 
Macaroni is an extruded hollow pasta. Food extrusion is a form of extrusion used in food processing. It is a process by which a set of mixed ingredients are forced through an opening in a perforated plate or die with a design specific to the food, and is then cut to a specified size by blades. The machine which forces the mix through the die is an extruder, and the mix is known as the extrudate