Below is a charted analysis of the usage of Jacqueline and related names. Jacquelyn, James, Jaquelin, Jaqueline, Jacquelin, Jackie, Jacklyn, Jaclyn, Jacque and Jacalyn are the prominent varying forms of Jacqueline (#246 the previous year) appearing in the Top 1000. Jacqueline is a very popular first name for women (#86 out of 4276, Top 2%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#123314 out of 150436, Top 82%).
Origins [edit]. Jacqueline comes from French, as the feminine form of Jacques (English James). Jacques originated from ' Jacob ', which is derived from the Hebrew meaning 'may God protect' or 'supplanter'. Supplanter refers to a person who replaces someone or thing of lesser value, and this Hebrew meaning refers to Jacob supplanting Esau as recorded in the Hebrew Bible. One of the most famous persons to bear the name in the twentieth century is Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, nee Née Jacqueline Lee, bouvier often referred to As Jackie kennedy following her marriage To.U. S President John. F kennedy from 1953 to. 1963
Meaning of Jacqueline. French name. In French, the name Jacqueline means-to protect.The name Jacqueline originated as an French name. The name Jacqueline is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-to protect. Origin-France.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Jacqueline. The name Jacqueline is a quintessential French female name. It’s the feminized version of the French male name Jacques which corresponds to the anglicized James from the Latin Jacob from the Hebrew Yaakov. The origin of Yaakov/Jacob comes from the Old Testament and is borne by the younger twin son to Isaac and Rebecca. 
Jacqueline /jac-que-line/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JAK-kwa-lin, jak-LEEN, zhak-LEEN, ZHAK-ah-leen, JAK-ah-lin, JAK-lin. It is of French and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jacqueline is he who supplants. Jacqueline is a very popular first name for women (#86 out of 4276, Top 2%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#123314 out of 150436, Top 82%).
Feminine of Jacques, the French version of James and Jacob. First used in Britain in the 17th century. First Lady Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis, whose family was from French origin, was popularly called Jackie. Actresses Jaclyn Smith, Jacqueline Bisset. Jacqueline is a very popular first name for women (#86 out of 4276, Top 2%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#123314 out of 150436, Top 82%).
French Meaning: The name Jacqueline is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Jacqueline is: Supplanter. He grasps the heel. French form of Jacob.Supplanter. Introduced into Britain in the 13th century. American Meaning: The name Jacqueline is an American baby name.
It is predominantly used in English and French. The name Jacqueline means 'Yahweh may protect; holder of heel; supplanter'. It is a biblical name derived from yahweh 'name of God ' ; aqeb meaning 'heel' ; aqab 'to supplant, to cheat'. The name is considered a diminutive of Jacques. 
It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Jacqueline are in general originating from Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Switzerland, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Jacqueline across the world, see Jacques. The name Jacqueline is ranked on the 238th position of the most used names. It means that this name is very frequently used. We estimate that there are at least 2487600 persons in the world having this name which is around 0.035% of the population.
Origin of the name Jacqueline: Borrowed from the French, Jacqueline is a feminine form of Jacques, which is a variant of James and Jacob. Both of these names are derived from the Hebrew ya`aqob (supplanting, seizing by the heel). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.