Most people have experienced back pain sometime in their lives. The causes of back pain are numerous; some are self-inflicted due to a lifetime of bad habits. Other back pain causes include accidents, muscle strains, and sports injuries. Although the causes may be different, most often they share the same symptoms.
Back pain (when it's really bad) is debilitating and life altering. It can affect your ability to move, sleep and even think. There are many causes of back pain, but remember that pain levels are not always positively correlated with the degree of seriousness. 2. Get a referral for physiotherapy. If your back pain is recurring (chronic) and caused by weak spinal muscles, poor posture or degenerative conditions such as osteoarthritis, then you need to consider some form of rehabilitation.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, naproxen or aspirin can be short-term solutions to help you deal with bad pain or inflammation in your back. Keep in mind that these medications can be hard on your stomach, kidneys and liver, so it's best not to use them for more than 2 weeks at a stretch. 2. Get a referral for physiotherapy. If your back pain is recurring (chronic) and caused by weak spinal muscles, poor posture or degenerative conditions such as osteoarthritis, then you need to consider some form of rehabilitation.
Numbness on tingling in your leg and back pain could indicate nerve irritation or nerve damage. You could have a herniated disc or spinal stenosis. A doctor can prescribe medications, treatments or even surgery to help relieve the pressure on the nerves. Loss of control of your bowel or bladder and Back Pain. If you have back pain along with new incontinence, you could have a serious back condition causing pressure on the nerves that requires immediate medical care. Serious Trauma and Back Pain. Trauma such as a car accident or falling down a flight of stairs can cause a fracture in your back
Severe Lower back Pain. Severe lower back pain can be a serious and debilitating condition. The lower back pain may be the least of your worries. If low back pain is severe, it tends to create other more serious complications. The pain you experience in your low back will affect your day to day life. Read on to find out why your back pain has become severe and what you can do to at least some pain now. But first a warning... Lower back pain can increase and affect various other bodily functions.
Upper, Middle, and Low Back Pain Symptoms. Get the facts on the aches and pains that signal back problems. Sciatica Symptoms. Sciatica can cause pain in the lower back and the legs. Learn more. Low Back Strain. One of the main causes of back pain, whether acute or chronic, is low back strain. Nighttime Back Pain. Nighttime back pain is a special type of lower back pain that could indicate a serious problem with your spine
I would recommend that you consult with your primary care doctor about this, especially if the pain is persistent or severe. You are definitely right that the most common cause of pain in the lower back on one side does have something to do with the muscle. If I have pain on one side of my back only does that mean there is something wrong with my muscles? Bad pain in my back, but only on the left side at the bottom.
Back pain includes lower back pain, middle back pain, upper back pain or low back pain with sciatica. Nerve and muscular problems, degenerative disc disease, and arthritis can result in back pain. Back pain symptoms may be relived with pain medication or pain killers. The causes of back pain are numerous; some are self-inflicted due to a lifetime of bad habits. Other back pain causes include accidents, muscle strains, and sports injuries. Although the causes may be different, most often they share the same symptoms.