Okazaki. Okazaki (岡崎) is located midway between Nagoya and Toyohashi, in the center of Aichi prefecture. It has a long history, but is best known for being the birthplace of Tokugawa Ieyasu. Okazaki Castle is the focus of the city, which was an important Tokaido post town and river port. Get in [edit]. Okazaki has two primary train stations: 1  JR Okazaki station, on the Tokaido Main Line, is in the southern part of the city. 2  The station is close to the Yamasa Institute, and the Aichi Kanjo line for Toyota can be accessed here.
Okazaki has a population of 330,000 and it plays an important role in Japanese administration in relation with the Tokyo and Osaka regions. Okazaki is also an important cultural center of Japan. The historical sites and cultural heritage of Okazaki attracts a lot of tourists to this place. Okazaki is also an important manufacturing hub for many companies and is also the center of several knowledge-based industries. Toyota Motor, Sony, Mitsubishi and Makita Power Tools all have their base in Okazaki.
Okazaki 岡崎. Okazaki is a peaceful, old castle town 40km from Nagoya in Aichi Prefecture central Japan on the railway route to Toyohashi. Okazaki's main attraction is Okazaki Castle, the birthplace of Ieyasu Tokugawa, the founder of the Tokugawa dynasty and one of the most important figures in Japanese history. Okazaki Castle is located in Okazaki Park, a 15-minute walk west from Higashi Okazaki Meitetsu station over the Otogawa River. The Otemon Gate (pictured above), was the main gate to the castle and stood near to the old Tokaido highway. Otemon Gate was rebuilt using local stone in 1993.
Okazaki (岡崎市, Okazaki-shi) is a city located in Aichi Prefecture, Japan. As of June 2014, the city had an estimated population of 375,321 and a population density of 968 persons per km². Okazaki is located in the coastal plains of southeastern Aichi Prefecture. The ground rises to undulating hills in the former Nukata area to the northeast. About 60 percent of the city area is forested and remains sparsely populated. Okazaki is about 250 miles (400 km) away from Tokyo, to the southwest
The Okazaki City Museum (Tel: 0564 285000) is in the adjacent Okazaki Chuo Sogo Park. South of the city center is Minami Park with its plum trees and a children's amusement area. The City History Museum is just off Route 1 heading east out of town. Okazaki Castle is located in Okazaki Park, a 15-minute walk west from Higashi Okazaki Meitetsu station over the Otogawa River. The Otemon Gate (pictured above), was the main gate to the castle and stood near to the old Tokaido highway. Otemon Gate was rebuilt using local stone in 1993.
Okazaki was proclaimed a core city on April 1, 2003 with increased autonomy from the prefectural government. On January 1, 2006, the town of Nukata (from Nukata District) was merged into Okazaki. Okazaki is located in the coastal plains of southeastern Aichi Prefecture. The ground rises to undulating hills in the former Nukata area to the northeast. About 60 percent of the city area is forested and remains sparsely populated. Okazaki is about 250 miles (400 km) away from Tokyo, to the southwest
About Okazaki City. The city of Okazaki is a place of peace and tranquility and is famous around the world for being the birthplace of Ieyasu Tokugawa, the creator of the Edo Period. Okazaki Jazz Street Festival. Every year Okazaki hosts a two day jazz festival in November. During this two day period, jazz fills the city as jazz musicians from all over Japan give live performances in venues throughout Okazaki.
1 Higashi-Okazaki, on the private Meitetsu Line, is in the central part of the city. 2  This station is convenient for the main tourist sites, such as Okazaki Castle, Rokusho Jinja, Iga Hachimangu, and Daijuji temple. 3  It also connects to the Chubu Centrair International Airport (65 min / ¥1,210). Get in [edit]. Okazaki has two primary train stations: 1  JR Okazaki station, on the Tokaido Main Line, is in the southern part of the city. 2  The station is close to the Yamasa Institute, and the Aichi Kanjo line for Toyota can be accessed here.