:) sorry but i am not agree with you A palindrome is a word (or phrase) that is spelled the same forwards as backwards. (Check the glossary.) The original poster gave bob as an example. Spell bob backwards and you get bob. The example given in the glossary is madam. A well-known palindromic phrase is Madam, I'm Adam. 
59 Words that Spell the Same Backwards and Forwards – Palindromes. Tweet. A word that spells the same backward as well as forward such as “did’ is called a Palindrome. Chances are you or your friends might be able to come up with less than 5 Palindromes off the top of your head.
A palindrome is a word, phrase, number, or other sequence of characters which reads the same backward or forward. Allowances may be made for adjustments to capital letters, punctuation, and word dividers. A palindrome in which a recorded phrase of speech sounds the same when it is played backward was discovered by composer John Oswald in 1974 while he was working on audio tape versions of the cut-up technique using recorded readings by William S. Burroughs.
They’re both palindromes. A palindrome is a word, number, sentence, or verse that reads the same backward or forward. It derives from the Greek palin dromo, which means “running back again.” In most palindromes, spacing, punctuation, and capitalization are usually ignored. Palindromes. The word refers to a word or phases that spells a different word or phrase backwards, such as stressed and desserts. Mull over these palindromes, and then let us know your favorite.
The word palindrome was coined by the English playwright Ben Jonson in the 17th century from the Greek roots palin (πάλιν; again) and dromos (δρoμος; δρóμος, way). direction A palindrome in which a recorded phrase of speech sounds the same when it is played backward was discovered by composer John Oswald in 1974 while he was working on audio tape versions of the cut-up technique using recorded readings by William S. Burroughs.
It spells RETSASID.. There are words that spell the same forward and backwards (like racecar or radar) and these are called palindromes. … There is no universal term for words like liar or stressed that spell different words when reversed. Some terms are reverse anagrams or semordnilaps.. 3 people found this useful.
Racecar Is Racecar Backwards is the debut full-length album by the British rock band Reuben. It was recorded between July and November 2003, and was produced by Jason Wilson at Stakeout Studios when it was based in Chobham. Stakeout Studios later moved into a much larger premises in Hampton. 
Racecar, spelled backwards, is also racecar. It is one of a small number of words that are the same forward and backward. These are called palindromes, a term which also inclu … des phrases such as Madam I'm Adam.. Some palindromes: civic kayak radar redder refer reviver. There are words that spell the same forward and backwards (like racecar or radar) and these are called palindromes. … There is no universal term for words like liar or stressed that spell different words when reversed. Some terms are reverse anagrams or semordnilaps.. 3 people found this useful.
Noon is a palindrome but not a semordnilap because it is the same word whether spelled backward or forward. Semordnilaps are also known as word reversals, reversible anagrams, heteropalindromes, semi-palindromes, half-palindromes, reversgrams, mynoretehs, or anadromes. A palindrome in which a recorded phrase of speech sounds the same when it is played backward was discovered by composer John Oswald in 1974 while he was working on audio tape versions of the cut-up technique using recorded readings by William S. Burroughs.
A palindrome: The word palindrome is from the Greek palindromos, palíndromos meaning running back (again = PALIN + palín-, again = DROM). Dramein drameîn run a palindrome is a word or phrase which reads the same. In both directions some: simple examples are