1 To remove the makeup, you can use a soft cotton ball and put some almond oil or olive oil on it and gently rub the lips with it. 2  Sleeping with lipsticks and lip gloss on your lips can be the reason behind your dark lips. 3  By scrubbing your lips with sugar mixed with cold cream the color of your dark lips will fade.
A perfect dark lips treatment that you can do at home! Here is the process to remove tan from your lips: Mix equal parts of lemon juice and honey to make your tan removing lip serum. The citrus extracts remove the tan and the honey nourishes the lips to make them pink.
Make a lip scrub. An alternative method of exfoliating your lips is to use a homemade sugar scrub. 1  Simply combine two tablespoons of coarse white or brown sugar with one teaspoon of honey and one tablespoon of organic coconut oil.
For all of you having dark lips follow these tips. If you want to make your lips pink use honey with haldi make a paste apply on your lips leave for ten min and rinse you can try at night. Take lemon and rose water put less honey in it apply on your lip to make them pink. Try at evining.
1 Butter will make your lips soft and erase the dark spots too. 2  If you want to make your lips red and attractive then you can put some almond in milk and leave it overnight. 3  The next day grind this almond with the milk and make a thick paste. 4  Apply this thick paste on your lips.
• This treatment will remove the dead skin off your lips and make your lips fuller and reddish. Natural home remedy using turmeric powder and lime juice: 1. Take a pinch of turmeric powder. 2. Add a teaspoon of fresh lime juice. 3. Mix well. 4. Now apply the mixture on to your lips and leave it on for 10 minutes. 5.
1 Always remove the lip makeup you have applied during the day before going to sleep. 2  To remove the makeup, you can use a soft cotton ball and put some almond oil or olive oil on it and gently rub the lips with it. 3  Sleeping with lipsticks and lip gloss on your lips can be the reason behind your dark lips.
1 Rose petals can also be used to get back the pink colors of your lips. 2  Take some rose petals and immerse it in milk for some time. 3  Then make a paste of the petals and add a few drops of honey and glycerin to it. 4  Now take this paste and dab it on your lips for fifteen minutes. 5  Finally rub off your lips gently with milk.