The defective gene codes the blueprint for a protein called huntingtin. This protein's normal function isn't yet known, but it's called huntingtin because scientists identified its defective form as the cause of Huntington's disease. The defective gene identified in 1993 causes virtually all Huntington’s disease. The huntingtin gene defect involves extra repeats of one specific chemical code in one small section of chromosome 4. The normal huntingtin gene includes 17 to 20 repetitions of this code among its total of more than 3,100 codes. The defect that causes Huntington's disease includes 40 or more repeats. Genetic tests for Huntington's disease measure the number of repeats present in an individual's huntingtin protein gen
For example, the gene that encodes for huntingtin in fruit flies does not contain a sequence of CAG repeats. This evidence hints at the possibility that when humans and fruit flies diverged along the evolutionary tree, the function of their huntingtin evolved to differ as well. 
Summary. Huntingtin is a disease gene linked to Huntington's disease, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of striatal neurons. This is thought to be caused by an expanded, unstable trinucleotide repeat in the huntingtin gene, which translates as a polyglutamine repeat in the protein product. 
huntingtin: The name of the gene responsible for Huntington disease (HD) and of the protein encoded by that gene. The molecular basis of HD is an increase in the length of a CAG triplet repeat (or 'polyglutamine') within the huntingtin gene. 
The huntingtin gene, also called the HTT or HD (Huntington disease) gene, is the IT15 (interesting transcript 15) gene, which codes for a protein called the huntingtin protein. The gene and its product are under heavy investigation as part of Huntington's disease clinical research and the suggested role for huntingtin in long-term memory storage. It is variable in its structure, as the many polymorphisms of the gene can lead to variable numbers of glutamine residues present in the protein.
Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by a mutated form of the huntingtin gene, where excessive (more than 36) CAG repeats result in formation of an unstable protein. These expanded repeats lead to production of a huntingtin protein that contains an abnormally long polyglutamine tract at the N-terminus. The gene and its product are under heavy investigation as part of Huntington's disease clinical research and the suggested role for huntingtin in long-term memory storage. It is variable in its structure, as the many polymorphisms of the gene can lead to variable numbers of glutamine residues present in the protein.
The HTT gene provides instructions for making a protein called huntingtin. Although the exact function of this protein is unknown, it appears to play an important role in nerve cells (neurons) in the brain and is essential for normal development before birth. The official name of this gene is “huntingtin.”. HTT is the gene's official symbol. The HTT gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
(To read more about DNA, click here .) Everyone has a gene that codes for huntingtin protein, a protein found in the cells of the body, which we will discuss later. Towards the beginning of this gene, the three-letter codon sequence C-A-G is repeated a few times. Recall that a gene is a section of DNA made up of four different nucleotide bases, abbreviated by the letters A, T, C, and G. The order of these bases determines the protein “product” of the gene.
Huntingtin (HTT) was the first disease-associated gene to be molecularly mapped to a human chromosome (Gusella et al. , 1983) . Ten years later, scientists identified the DNA sequence and determined the precise nature of the HD-associated mutation in HTT (MacDonald et al. , 1993). Children of a parent with HD have a 50% chance of receiving the mutated HTT gene and thus developing the disease later in life. Today, through the use of PCR-based techniques, individuals at risk for HD can view their genetic blueprint and see their certain future. Whether they do so is a personal choice.