High ESR, value above the normal range. A mild or moderate increase from the normal values of ESR can be considered as an indication of bodily inflammations and the presence of other conditions such as anemia, aging, pregnancy, diabetes, cardiac diseases and some types of infections. An ESR blood test is usually done to check and understand the degree of inflammation in the body such as cancers, various kinds of infections as well as autoimmune disorders and diseases. It is a non specific and an easy test which is really cost effective as compared to other blood tests.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), also called a sedimentation rate or Westergren ESR, is the rate at which red blood cells sediment in a period of one hour. It is a common hematology test, and is a non-specific measure of inflammation. Note: mm/h. = millimeters per hour. Westergren's original normal values (men 3 mm and women 7 mm) made no allowance for a person's age and in 1967 it was confirmed that ESR values tend to rise with age and to be generally higher in women.
The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters per hour, females is 0-20 millimeters per hour. The sedimentation rate may normally be slightly higher in the elderly. Medically reviewed by a Board Certified Family Practice Physician. The sedimentation rate is also called the erythrocyte sedimentation rate because it is a measure of the red blood cells (erythrocytes) sedimenting in a tube over a given period of time. Sedimentation rate is often abbreviated as sed rate or ESR.
It indicates that you have no problem with abnormal inflammation. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), is the rate at which red blood cells in un-coagulated blood fall … to the bottom of a Westergren tube in a period of 1 hour. this is a common hematology test which is a non-specific measure of inflammation. ESR (mm/hr). erythrocytes sedimentation rate (ESR) Westergren method An ESR of 120 indicates that you have a problem with inflammation it does not however indicate what the cause of the i … nflammation is. A sedimentation rate is blood test that can detect and monitors inflammation in the body.
ESR is an abbreviated form for erythrocyte sedimentation rate. It is often referred to as the sedimentation rate or the sed rate. An ESR blood test is usually done to check and understand the degree of inflammation in the body such as cancers, various kinds of infections as well as autoimmune disorders and diseases. It is a non specific and an easy test which is really cost effective as compared to other blood tests.
It is useful in monitoring these conditions and may predict relapse in patients with Hodgkin's disease. Normal ESR value for women under 50 years old is less than 20 mm/hour and women more than 50 years old is less than 30 mm/hour. As the ESR is 1 in your case, it falls within the normal range. 
No an ESR of 48 is high and indicates that there is some sort of inflammation in your body. The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters p … er hour, and for females is 0-20 millimeters per hour. male-up to 15, female-up to20. The normal sedimentation rate (Westergren method) for males is 0-15 millimeters per hour, and for females is 0-20 millimeters per hour. The sedimentation rate can be slightly more elevated in the elderly and is much lower for children
Normal range in an ESR blood test. The ESR blood test normal range values in mm/hr. are given below and categorized according to the gender and age: 1  For men over 50 years, the normal ESR reading is below 20. The abnormalities can either increase the ESR values or decrease it below the normal range. It is also important to remember that the above mentioned diseases are not the only abnormalities. A number of other medical complications can also affect the ESR test values.