Submit a request through Online Banking Customer Services: look for Request a credit limit increase listed under Banking Services. You can also request a credit limit increase over the phone by calling the customer service number on the back of your card (1-800-465-4653) to inquire about increasing your credit limit. You may be able to complete the request over the phone, or you may be asked to go to your branch. If you find you need an enhanced limit on your credit card, you may consider requesting a credit limit increase. Find out how to make this request and whether it is an appropriate decision for your financial situation.
Of the many methods you can use to improve your credit score, increasing your credit limits is one you can employ today. You can usually ask for a credit limit increase after the first six months of opening a credit card. However, plenty of people don’t act to boost their spending limits. See how you can increase your credit limits and how each method can affect your credit score: 1. The first two methods of getting a credit limit increase are the standard approaches that credit card users take to increase their spending limits. If those two fail, there is one more way – but it is a little more tedious and could negatively affect your credit score.
Increasing your credit limit. If you aren’t happy with your credit limit, you can request a higher limit from the credit card provider. However, it is a good idea to wait for several months first so that the lender can see that you are a sensible customer. 
Of course, you should always pay your credit card bills on time, as late payments could result in credit limit (and credit score) decreases. Six months is simply the minimum amount of time you will have to make timely payments on your account before creditors will even consider raising your credit card limit. Ad. Asking some credit card companies for a limit increase can cause the credit issuer to check your credit score, known in the business as a hard pull.. A hard pull can cause your credit score to go down, only about five or 10 points.
1 Shoot for a credit utilization rate (debt to limit ratio) of about 10%. 2  A 10% credit utilization rate is ideal, however, so if you happen to have a rate of 20%, or even 30%, that's okay. 3  Your credit utilization is 30% of your credit score, which itself is a factor in getting a limit increase. Asking some credit card companies for a limit increase can cause the credit issuer to check your credit score, known in the business as a hard pull.. A hard pull can cause your credit score to go down, only about five or 10 points.
1 If one card has a higher limit, for example, move debt onto that card and off the card with the lower limit. 2  Do this so that both credit utilization ratios more or less balance out. 3  Shoot for a credit utilization rate (debt to limit ratio) of about 10%. Asking some credit card companies for a limit increase can cause the credit issuer to check your credit score, known in the business as a hard pull.. A hard pull can cause your credit score to go down, only about five or 10 points.
3. Card limit transfers. The first two methods of getting a credit limit increase are the standard approaches that credit card users take to increase their spending limits. If those two fail, there is one more way – but it is a little more tedious and could negatively affect your credit score.
One good reason is to improve your credit score. Lowering your credit utilization ratio, the percentage of your available credit that you are using, can boost your credit score substantially as credit utilization accounts for a big chunk -- 30 percent -- of your FICO score. In general, you should aim to keep your spending far below 30 percent of your credit limit. In other words, if you're spending $1,500 or less a month using a card with a $5,000 limit, you're OK -- though the highest credit scores go to those with spending levels below 10 percent of their limit. The higher you go, the more you need to either cut spending or increase the limit. That's your ceiling -- the maximum amount the card issuer has authorized you to charge each month. To a large extent, the height of that ceiling is out of your control. Your credit card issuer sets your credit limit when it gives you the card, taking into account your credit history, credit score and your income.
The process is similar to how issuers figure out the interest rate on your credit card, says Bill McCracken, CEO of Synergistics Research Corp., a market research firm that focuses on financial institutions. For example, a specific credit card offer may come with a credit limit between $1,000 and $5,000. Those with higher credit scores will get the $5,000 credit limit, but those who fall on the lower end of the qualifying credit range will get $1,000. Others consider your income or debt-to-income ratio in generating a credit limit. Some issuers may even take into account the limits on your other credit cards, which can be found on your credit reports, says John Ulzheimer, president of consumer education at SmartCredit.com.