1 Since we're only going one way, we don't need all that fuel. 2  We only need 18,372 ft/sec of the available 26,636 ft/sec of delta-V to get into Mars orbit. 3  So let's broadly assume that the reduction in fuel load will pay us back for the provisions our crew will need to remain alive. If we assume that our crewmembers ... ... and that when we get to Mars ... ... and that ... ... then it really does take less fuel to get to Mars! 1  don't eat, 2  don't drink water, 3  can wait six to nine months to go to the bathroom. 4  can stand direct, unattenuated cosmic radiation for up to two years, and.
To get from Low Earth Orbit to Mars, counting both ends of a minimum-energy Hohmann transfer trajectory, we need a total delta-V of 18,372 ft/sec; or 36,744 for the round trip from Earth to Mars and back to Earth orbit. So let's see what this baby can do. If we assume that our crewmembers ... ... and that when we get to Mars ... ... and that ... ... then it really does take less fuel to get to Mars! 1  don't eat, 2  don't drink water, 3  can wait six to nine months to go to the bathroom. 4  can stand direct, unattenuated cosmic radiation for up to two years, and.
Note that for fuel costs to launch, it doesn't matter whether the Mars transit vehicle is constructed on Earth or in space, it takes a GLOW of 50 times the payload to get the vehicle mass into orbit and that mass is 450 tonnes vehicle +75 tonnes colonists. That is 51 * $3,279,967 = $167,278,301.19 and adding in the origional fuel costs above gives $170,558,268 in fuel costs to get the Habitat (Mars transfer vehicle) from LEO to Mars. That does not include the mass of tanks and engines for the Habitat.
I haven't heard about this new news you're talking about, but I do know that they'll still need fuel to get there, and, even if they use this moon strategy, they'll still need fuel to get back. I'm heard they they plan on sending fuel ahead to Mars, so it'll already be there for their return trip. You have to use up quite a bit of fuel to launch from the Moon. But Mars has more gravity. A launch from the surface of Mars requires that much more fuel. Just getting to Mars requires less fuel than getting to the Moon.
In India's Mars mission, it took a launch vehicle called PSLV-C25, measuring 145 feet long and carrying over 200 tons of propellant fuel. That's less than half the fuel a space shuttle mission routinely carried. India launched its first spacecraft to Mars Tuesday on a trip that will last over 300 days at a cost of $72 million. The 3,000-pound orbiter named Mangalyaan – or Mars orbiter in Hindi – faces the unenviable task of traveling 485 million miles through space to visit the dusty, lonesome Red Planet. It will take a lot of fuel, but perhaps not as much as you might think. In nearly half a century of flights to Mars, engineers have developed techniques for cutting down on fuel and harnessing the natural celestial movements of Earth and its neighbors to propel crafts through space
Spike in Israeli-Palestinian violence. India launched its first spacecraft to Mars Tuesday at a price tag of $72 million. It takes less fuel to propel India's Mars orbiter 485 million miles to the Red Planet than you think. India launched its first spacecraft to Mars Tuesday on a trip that will last over 300 days at a cost of $72 million. The 3,000-pound orbiter named Mangalyaan – or Mars orbiter in Hindi – faces the unenviable task of traveling 485 million miles through space to visit the dusty, lonesome Red Planet. It will take a lot of fuel, but perhaps not as much as you might think. In nearly half a century of flights to Mars, engineers have developed techniques for cutting down on fuel and harnessing the natural celestial movements of Earth and its neighbors to propel crafts through space
You can reasonably assume rocket fuel is at least 5 to 10 times more expensive than that, or $2500 to $5000 per ton. So let’s start the planning. Step 1: Since we’ve assumed that our Mars spacecraft is already in LEO, we need to get it into a high Earth orbit. Compare this with a one-way trip that only required 7 tons/ton of payload. The bottom line of all these calculations is that you can get about eight times as much stuff to Mars for the same amount of fuel if you send it one-way instead of trying to bring it back! The reason this is so much more is the cost of transporting the fuel on the outbound trip that will be used for the return trip
Best Answer: if you used a hohmann transfer orbit, it wouldn't take much more than is required to reach a high altitude earth orbit. the more massive your payload, the more fuel you will need. fire the thrusters once to get out of earth orbit and just let your orbit, which will get higher, take you to mars on the other side of the sun. be sure to time it right.