A cotton gin is a machine that quickly and easily separates cotton fibers from their seeds, allowing for much greater productivity than manual cotton separation. The fibers are processed into clothing or other cotton goods, and any undamaged cotton was used for clothes. Whitney's cotton gin model was capable of cleaning 50 pounds (23 kg) of lint per day. The model consisted of a wooden cylinder surrounded by rows of slender spikes, which pulled the lint through the bars of a comb-like grid.
Introduction. In 1794, U.S.-born inventor Eli Whitney (1765-1825) patented the cotton gin, a machine that revolutionized the production of cotton by greatly speeding up the process of removing seeds from cotton fiber. By the mid-19th century, cotton had become America’s leading export. 
Cotton requires very little to grow. Before the invention of the cotton gin, there were only two cash crops in the South. One was tobacco and the other was indigo, a flower used to make a blue dye. Growing tobacco wore out the land and farmers had to rotate their land, leaving a section of the land bare for a year. There was an East Indian gin called a charka where seeds were separated from the cotton when pulled through a set of rollers. This machine was used for long-staple cotton, whereas in America, they grew short-staple cotton. The cottonseed was being removed by hand, the work generally done by slaves.
Most of the cotton grown around the world before 1793, when Eli Whitney's simple yet effective cotton gin became widely available, was long-staple cotton (Gossypium barbadense), which grows best along tropical or subtropical coastlines. 
Eli Whitney. Mary Bellis. Eli Whitney was the inventor of the cotton gin and a pioneer in the mass production of cotton. Whitney was born in Westboro, Massachusetts on December 8, 1765 and died on January 8, 1825. He graduated from Yale College in 1792. By April 1793, Whitney had designed and constructed the cotton gin, a machine that automated the separation of cottonseed from the short-staple cotton fiber
The cotton gin is an instrument to remove the seeds from cotton. Simpler versions of Eli Whitneys cotton gin had been around for centuries. There was an East Indian gin called a charka where seeds were separated from the cotton when pulled through a set of rollers. This machine was used for long-staple cotton, whereas in America, they grew short-staple cotton. The cottonseed was being removed by hand, the work generally done by slaves.
The cotton gin is a machine that separates cotton seeds from cotton fiber. Invented by Eli Whitney in 1793, it was an important invention because it dramatically reduced the amount of time it took to separate cotton seeds from cotton fiber. The cotton gin was a revolutionary device invented by Eli Whitney in 1793. It efficiently separated seeds from cotton fiber, allowing users to produce up to 50 pounds of lint a day. The invention of the cotton gin had profound implications: it allowed cotton to become the dominant cash crop in the South.
In 1793, Eli Whitney invented a simple machine that influenced the history of the United States. He invented a cotton gin that was popular in the South. The South became the cotton producing part of the country because Whitneys cotton gin was able to successfully pull out the seeds from the cotton bolls. Eli Whitney was born in Westboro, Massachusetts on December 8, 1765 and died on January 8, 1825. 
Although simple handheld roller gins have been used in India and other countries since at least 500 AD, the first modern mechanical cotton gin was created by U.S.American inventor Eli Whitney in 1793 and patented in 1794. Whitney's cotton gin model was capable of cleaning 50 pounds (23 kg) of lint per day. The model consisted of a wooden cylinder surrounded by rows of slender spikes, which pulled the lint through the bars of a comb-like grid.
Long-staple cotton gins had existed long before Whitney's invention of the short-staple cotton gin; the churka (or charkha), for instance, had been used in India for centuries to clean long-staple cotton, and was introduced to the South in the mid-eighteenth century. 