Gillespie (/ɡɨˈlɛspi/) is both a masculine given name, and a surname in the English language. The given name is an Anglicised form of the Gaelic Gille Easbaig (also rendered Gilleasbaig), meaning bishop's servant. The origins of the surname Gillespie are disputed.
The surname Gillespie is either an Anglicised form of the Scottish Gaelic Mac Gille Easbuig, and the Irish Mac Giolla Easpaig, both of which mean servant of the bishop, or an Anglicised form of the Gaelic Filid Asbuig, which roughly translates to the bishop's lawyer.. The given name is an Anglicised form of the Gaelic Gille Easbaig (also rendered Gilleasbaig), meaning bishop's servant. The origins of the surname Gillespie are disputed.
Irish name. In Irish, the name Gillespie means-servant of the bishop.The name Gillespie originated as an Irish name. The name Gillespie is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-servant of the bishop. Origin-Ireland. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special! 
The Gillespie name is ancient, its origins dating probably from 5th century Ireland. It is widely thought to be made up of two Gaelic words, Filid, a druidic bard, and Asbuig, a bishop. FilidAsbuig = Gillespie A Filidasbuig (the f is silent) was effectively a bishop's clerk in early (5th to 12th century) Ireland. John Birks (Dizzy) Gillespie got his nickname through passing out when he played high notes. The human blood pressure is 4 Kilo Pascals. Playing Double Top C required pressur … e in the lungs is 5
Widely recorded in Scotland, the origination is from the Roman Latin word 'eposcopus' meaning bishop or leader, although why this should be, since no other Gaelic name has any sort of similar origin, remains a mystery. In Ireland the surname is chiefly recorded in County Down, Ulster. Sir Robert Rollo Gillespie (1766 - 1814), born in County Down, had an adventurous and distinguished career as a soldier in India, where he was killed in action. A coat of arms granted to the Scottish clan has the blazon of a silver shield, charged with a chevron wavy between three red heraldic roses.
Gillespie is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#758 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Gillespie for boys. Gillespie has not been ranked in the Top 1000 thus far. (2014 Birth Statistics). 
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Teag Mac Giolla Epscoip, who was chief of Aeilabhra, in the barony of Iveagh, County Down. This was dated 1175, in the Medieval Irish Records, during the reign of Rory O'Conor, known as The High King of Ireland, 1166 - 1175. Sir Robert Rollo Gillespie (1766 - 1814), born in County Down, had an adventurous and distinguished career as a soldier in India, where he was killed in action. A coat of arms granted to the Scottish clan has the blazon of a silver shield, charged with a chevron wavy between three red heraldic roses.
You can find out where the majority of the Gillespie families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. 
Gilles /gil-les/ [1 syll.] as a name for boys. Gilles' name origin is Greek, and Gilles means small goat; servant of Jesus. Gilles is a variant transcription of Giles (Greek): from Aigidios. Gilles is also a form of Gillies (Scottish, Gaelic): in Scotland in Victorian times. Kreatif forms: Geles, Gilius, Gilves. Gilles is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular surname for all people (#8103 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of Gilles and associated names.