More than ever, this is the time to ensure that your bird has the nutritional diet that it needs. You should increase the amount of food that you give it by at least 25%. Some stores will sell special molting food, but you can also just add fresh vegetables, fruits, and cereals to your bird’s diet. 
Your lovebird can share many of the foods you eat-just try to keep their consumption of fried, greasy, sugary, and salty foods to a minimum. However, NEVER offer your bird alcohol, chocolate, or caffeinated beverages. These substances can kill your bird, even if given in very small amounts. Lovebirds are a large bird living in a small body-and they are not afraid to let anyone know it! While it has been a common practice to keep these birds in pairs, in some cases it is better to keep a lovebird alone.
The natural diet of lovebirds consists of seeds, grain, berries, and other fruits. For a healthy, balanced diet, it is necessary to provide a variety of foods for your pet bird. Pellet foods and seed mixes can be fed as a daily base diet. We are currently feeding our birds Kaytee (tm) Rainbow Exact and Kaytee (tm) Forti-Diet. Lovebirds are a large bird living in a small body-and they are not afraid to let anyone know it! While it has been a common practice to keep these birds in pairs, in some cases it is better to keep a lovebird alone.
Vomiting in birds can be a sign of a severe disease, and veterinary attention should be given as soon as possible. Regurgitation and vomiting are signs commonly seen in birds. Regurgitation is the forceful expulsion of the contents of the mouth, esophagus, or crop. A bird that is regurgitating will often bob its head and stretch out its neck, and the food does not look digested, e.g., whole seeds are regurgitated. Regurgitation is usually a normal behavior. Vomiting is the expulsion of the contents of the proventriculus, ventriculus, or intestine. Vomiting is more of a spitting action, and the bird shakes its head from side to side.
My cockatiels do the same thing. They poop in the food bowl as well at times. It is very important that your bird always have access to fresh water, so you might want to introduce a water bottle into her cage – can’t poop in those!. The loss of those small feathers is normal and will happen frequently. The consistency of your bird’s poop can tell you a lot as well. When a parrot is stressed (like mine are at the vet) and their blood pressure rises, they will produce very liquidy poops. Also, after they eat fruit, which has a high water content, the poops can be runny.
You should take good clear photo’s of your birds droppings so that you know what is normal for your bird. Take photo’s of various foods eaten, and times of day. Save these photo’s. They can later be a visual reference to use as comparison if you see a change in the birds droppings. Regardless of diet, the urates are always white in a healthy bird.First off, I’d like to mention there are some articles on the internet such as: Poopolgy 101: http://www.parrotchronicles.com/septoct2002/droppings.htmMost dropping information on the internet and books is basic and not very detailed.
Many of us have seen chicken livers, so hopefully most of us can envision what a normal bird’s liver looks like. It is a large organ with a smooth surface, several lobes and a deep mahogany color. The liver is a very interesting and complex organ that is involved in more than 40 biochemical reactions in the body. 
Bird food is food (often varieties of seeds) eaten by birds. The most important use of bird feed globally, is as feed for domesticated poultry. However (especially in developed countries), people also make or buy bird food to feed to pet birds or use in birdfeeders for wild birds. 
Milk and coconut. Never give milk to any bird. A bird's gut is not designed to digest milk and it can result in serious stomach upsets, or even death. Birds can, however, digest fermented dairy products such as cheese. Mild grated cheese can be a good way of attracting robins, wrens and dunnocks. 