Fiscal Year. In finance, a fiscal year is a 12-month period that ends on the last day of any month except December. A fiscal year may end on April 30, for instance. Such a fiscal year would start on May 1 of the previous year, since it must cover 12 full consecutive months. For instance, the fiscal year of a firm that has ended on April 30, 2012, would have begun on May 1, 2011. To find the start date of a fiscal year, add one day to the end date and then go back a full year. Most businesses use the calendar year for financial calculations. If such a firm refers to its 2012 full-year profits, for example, it is talking about the total money it has earned between January 1, 2012, and December 31, 2012.
Most sole proprietors use a calendar year accounting period. Some businesses have seasons that don't follow the traditional calendar. If your business will have such seasons, you may be eligible to use a 12-month fiscal year that ends on the last day of any month except December. Whether you choose a calendar year or a fiscal year, you must choose it for your first tax return and use it for all your records and reporting. A calendar year runs from January 1 through December 31. One of the advantages of a calendar year to small business owners is that the payers of interest, dividends, and many other kinds of income send their reports to you on a calendar year basis, so it is easier to determine how much income you received for the year.
A fiscal calendar or fiscal year is when your year end is something other than December 31st. For instance, many retailers have a year end in June so that their peak earnings season is not right at the end of the year. For Example if you use the Fiscal calendar, your accounting year could start in October, or the fourth quarter of the calendar year. Or, in any other quarter and it doesn't matter.
The church currently has a calendar year for its fiscal year and the school has a May 31 fiscal year. It seems that a June 30 fiscal year end makes most since but the school would like for the fiscal year to be July 31 since school starts around August 1 and their teacher contracts are from August 1 to July 31. However, the rule does not specifically say “April 15” or “March 15,” because if the fiscal year is different than the calendar year, those dates fall somewhere in the middle, and a year’s worth of accounting is not available from which to prepare a return.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The only difference between a fiscal calendar, and a calendar year is in how you do accounting. For Example if you use the Fiscal calendar, your accounting year could start in October, or the fourth quarter of the calendar year. Or, in any other quarter and it doesn't matter. While this would be your 1st quarter it is still the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th quarter of the calendar year
A fiscal year is any twelve-month period that begins and ends differently than the calendar. For example, the fiscal year for schools is usually July 1 to June 30. That way, their accounting and tax records conclude at about the same time that the school year ends and students are off for the summer. However, the rule does not specifically say “April 15” or “March 15,” because if the fiscal year is different than the calendar year, those dates fall somewhere in the middle, and a year’s worth of accounting is not available from which to prepare a return.
If the tax year is a calendar year, as it most often is, then the return is due on April 15, a date we are all familiar with (for corporations, the deadline is the 15 th day of the third month following the tax year, or March 15 for a calendar year). However, the rule does not specifically say “April 15” or “March 15,” because if the fiscal year is different than the calendar year, those dates fall somewhere in the middle, and a year’s worth of accounting is not available from which to prepare a return.
Fiscal Vs. In the United States, the calendar year is the Gregorian calendar, which is based on the solar calendar and goes from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31. Dozens of calendar systems are used in the world, such as the Islamic lunar calendar, the Indian calendar and the Chinese calendar. For business purposes, the calendar year is fixed: It starts and ends on the same day for everyone. Fiscal years, on the other hand, may start on the first day of any month of the year -- except January -- depending on the 12-month period chosen by the organization or company.
Thanks for your comment; that certainly defines a fiscal and a calendar year. Of course, how those different 12-month periods apply to business and in tax law is the rest of the story…. However, the rule does not specifically say “April 15” or “March 15,” because if the fiscal year is different than the calendar year, those dates fall somewhere in the middle, and a year’s worth of accounting is not available from which to prepare a return.