to•tem. 1. a natural object or an animate being, as an animal or bird, assumed as the emblem of a clan, family, or group. 2. a representation of such an object or being serving as the distinctive mark of the clan or group. 3. anything serving as a distinctive, often venerated, emblem or symbol. [1750–60, Amer.
The Ojibwe (also Ojibwa), or Chippewa are a large group of Native Americans and First Nations in North America. There are Ojibwe communities in both Canada and the United States. In Canada, they are the second-largest population among First Nations, surpassed only by the Cree. In the United States, they have the fourth-largest population among Native American tribes, surpassed only by the Navajo, Cherokee, and Lakota.
Animal Characteristics & Meaning. A totem is a spirit being, sacred object, or symbol of a tribe, clan, family or individual. Native American tradition provides that each individual is connected with nine different animals that will accompany each person through life, acting as guides. 
Ojibwa Bird Pole. An Ojibwa bird pole is a snare used by native Americans for centuries. To be effective, place it in a relatively open area away from tall trees. For best results, pick a spot near feeding areas, dusting areas, or watering holes. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: totem (Noun). Any natural object or living creature that serves as an emblem of a tribe, clan or family. totem (Noun). The representation of such object or creature. totem (Noun). The clan whose kinship is defined in reference to such an object or creature. 
How to Make an Ojibwa Bird Pole. Ojibwa bird poles were a type of snare used by the Ojibwa tribe to catch birds instead of hunting. They're easy to make and work well. Ojibwa bird poles were a type of snare used by the Ojibwa tribe to catch birds instead of hunting
You can even catch elusive prey like birds with simple traps and tools. Survive the Outdoors has the details. An Ojibwa bird pole is a snare used by native Americans for centuries. To be effective, place it in a relatively open area away from tall trees. For best results, pick a spot near feeding areas, dusting areas, or watering holes. 
Full Definition of TOTEM. 1. a: an object (as an animal or plant) serving as the emblem of a family or clan and often as a reminder of its ancestry; also: a usually carved or painted representation of such an object b: a family or clan identified by a common totemic object. 2. : one that serves as an emblem or revered symbol.
Please try again later. This is the most common Ojibwa bird pole/snare you see in books and on the web. Not the simplest of snares to produce, especially in quantities, but they will do the job. As you will notice in the vid the noose doesn't catch my finger well at the set. 