DMADV is a Six Sigma framework that focuses primarily on the development of a new service, product or process as opposed to improving a previously existing one. The DMADV methodology should be applied: 1  when a non-existent product or process needs to be developed at a company and…. 2  when an existing process or product already exists but still needs to meet a Six Sigma level or customer specification.
5. Verify: Verify, by simulation or otherwise, the performance of thus developed design and its ability to meet the target needs. There is a new viewpoint in Six Sigma circles that DMADV is for designing new products and services and that it may not be successful on existing business processes and products. Although the argument is valid to some extent, you would do well to notice that the I of DMAIC is not far removed from the D of DMADV. Difference Between DMADV And DMAIC. The difference, as one can see now, exists only in the way last two steps are handled. In DMADV, instead of the Improve and Control steps which focuses on readjusting and controlling by one way or other, deals with redesigning the process to fit customer needs.
The DMADV methodology can’t be better explained than by comparing it with DMAIC methodology despite their fundamental differences. Take for example, the case of a traveling salesman who convinces a customer to buy at the best price. Difference Between DMADV And DMAIC. The difference, as one can see now, exists only in the way last two steps are handled. In DMADV, instead of the Improve and Control steps which focuses on readjusting and controlling by one way or other, deals with redesigning the process to fit customer needs.
The two most widely used Six Sigma methodologies are DMAIC and DMADV. Both methods are designed so a business process will be more efficient and effective. While both of these methodologies share some important characteristics, they are not interchangeable and were developed for use in differing business processes. 
By now, you would be familiar with DMAIC methodology and know when, where and how it is used and the benefits of it in problem solving and performance improvement. But DMAIC is not the only methodology that is used in Six Sigma. There is another common term DMADV which is equally important as DMAIC. To become a master in Six Sigma and use it for business purposes, it is essential to be familiar with all the other methodologies. For that, we need to first understand where, when and why we use DMADV.
DMADV is a Six Sigma framework that is focuses primarily on the development of a new service, product or process as opposed to improving a previously existing one. SHARE ON: The DMADV methodology should be applied: 1  when a non-existent product or process needs to be developed at a company and…. 2  when an existing process or product already exists but still needs to meet a Six Sigma level or customer specification.
Using DMADV in Six Sigma. Six Sigma is a quality improvement process that, if used correctly, helps to ensure the end product is correct as delivered. The most popular choice in Six Sigma these days is the DMAIC process (define, measure, analyze, improve, and control). Much like the fairly new DMEDI, (define, measure, explore, develop, and implement), DMADV is a quality process that is based on customers' wants and needs or complaints, once they are discovered. In Six Sigma and Lean Six Sigma there are many step processes you can implement depending upon your project. Some of these steps include DMAIC, DMEDI, and finally DMADV steps. The DMADV Methodology works a little different and is more customer driven.
DMAIC, which is used to regain control, should not be confused with a similar Six Sigma process called Sigma DMADV. DMADV stands for define, measure, analyze, design, verify.. This set of steps is applied to new processes to make sure that they achieve Six Sigma quality. DMAIC (define, measure, analyze, improve, control) is an approach to problem-solving defined by Motorola as part of the Six Sigma management philosophy. DMAIC, which is pronounced de-may-ick, is a tool for improving an existing process.
Part of the Project management glossary: DMADV is a process defined by Motorola as part of their Six Sigma management philosophy. DMADV is applied to new processes to make sure that they achieve Six Sigma quality. Six Sigma sets extremely ambitious goals to minimize the occurrence of flaws in products and services. The letters in the abbreviation DMADV stand for define, measure, analyze, design, verify, the steps in the ordered process