• Wear a mask yourself. • Find a salon that uses products with ethyl-methacrylate (EMA), which the FDA deems a safer alternative to methyl-methacrylate (MMA), a chemical commonly used to apply acrylic nails. • Go natural during your first trimester when your baby's most crucial development is taking place. Answered by Parents.com-Team.
Other studies have not found this same miscarriage risk, so we're not sure how big the risk might be. And it's not clear whether the risk, if any, is from hair care or work with artificial nails. You may also find that when you're pregnant you're more sensitive to these kinds of products than when you're not pregnant.
A: The jury's still out on whether acrylic nails -- fake nails created by applying a chemical mixture called an epoxy over your natural nails, or over a plastic tip glued to your nails -- are safe to get while you're pregnant, since no studies have researched the effects these chemicals can have on your baby.
Luckily, the short answer as to whether it's OK to get your nails done while you're pregnant is yes. There is no scientific or medical reason not to get services during a pregnancy, says Samira Asemanfar, founder of the Southern California nail-care chain Bellacures.
It's fine to have acrylic nails applied during pregnancy, as long as the room is well-ventilated with open windows or air conditioning. Acrylic nails give off fumes as they are being applied. If you are exposed to a lot of these fumes, it can make you nauseous or sick. This isn't pleasant, whether you are pregnant or not. Also keep in mind that you may be more sensitive to acrylic nails during pregnancy, even if you've worn them before.
The health concerns associated with getting acrylic nails while pregnant include breathing in the dust and fumes and getting a bacterial or fungal infection between the fake and real nail. An infection could happen whether or not you are pregnant, but many women do not want to deal with such an infection while pregnant.
If you use the products occasionally in a well-ventilated area or salon, there's no known risk. So if you use the nail products at home or are having the nails put on in a salon, you're probably not being exposed to enough of any hazardous products to be risky.