The cerebrum, which is the largest part of the brain, is divided into four areas, or lobes, each of which houses different functions. The cerebrum is also divided into two hemispheres: the right, which helps you think creatively and the left, which helps you think logically. Hence, you have a right-sided frontal lobe and a leftt-sided frontal lobe. Your personality lives in the frontal lobes, where emotions, problem solving, reasoning, planning and other functions are managed. The frontal lobes are linked to sensory and memory centers throughout the brain.
The brain is the most complex organ in a vertebrate's body. In a typical human, the cerebral cortex (the largest part) is estimated to contain 15–33 billion neurons, each connected by synapses to several thousand other neurons. 
Most of the actual information processing in the brain takes place in the cerebral cortex. The cerebral cortex is divided into lobes that each have a specific function. For example, there are specific areas involved in vision, hearing, touch, movement, and smell. Other areas are critical for thinking and reasoning. The cortex (thin layer of tissue) is gray because nerves in this area lack the insulation that makes most other parts of the brain appear to be white. The cortex covers the outer portion (1.5mm to 5mm) of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The portion of the cortex that covers the cerebrum is called
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. 1 Wernicke's Area-This portion of the temporal lobe is formed around the auditory cortex. 2  While scientists have a limited understanding of the function of this area, it is known that it helps the body formulate or understand speech.
The lobes of the brain were originally a purely anatomical classification, but have been shown also to be related to different brain functions. The telencephalon (cerebrum), the largest portion of the human brain, is divided into lobes, but so is the cerebellum. If not specified, the expression lobes of the brain refers to the telencephalon. Terminologia Anatomica (1998) divides cerebrum into 6 lobes. (See individual articles for more information): 
Brain Lobes and their Functions. The brain is divided into four sections, known as lobes (as shown in the image above). The frontal lobe, occipital lobe, parietal lobe, and temporal lobe have different locations and functions that support the responses and actions of the human body. Other functions of the temporal lobe include: 1  Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information.
The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. This structure is responsible for basic vital life functions such as breathing, heartbeat, and blood pressure. Scientists say that this is the simplest part of human brains because animals' entire brains, such as reptiles (who appear early on the evolutionary scale) resemble our brain stem.
Each half of the cerebrum is divided into four areas, or lobes: 1  The frontal lobe is responsible for thinking, memory, planning, problem solving and behaviour. 2  Part of the frontal lobe, near the top of the brain, controls movement in the arms and legs. 3  The parietal lobe helps us form words. 
The human brain is the most complex organ in the body. Composed of 50 to 100 billion neurons, the human brain remains one of the world's greatest unsolved mysteries. Here we will take a closer look at the four lobes of the brain to discover more about the location and function of each lobe. Other functions of the temporal lobe include: 1  Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information.