Organic chemistry is a branch of chemistry that involves the study of the structures, composition, and synthesis of carbon-containing compounds. In understanding this form of chemistry, it is important to note that all organic molecules include not only carbon, but also hydrogen. @anon91142 - Organic chemistry is the study of compounds that come from life (or that are synthesized but originally come from life) while inorganic chemistry is the study of everything else. There are quite a few questions being asked here that look like homework questions.
Organic chemistry is the study of carbon and the study of the chemistry of life. Since not all carbon reactions are organic, another way to look at organic chemistry would be to consider it the study of molecules containing the carbon-hydrogen (C-H) bond and their reactions. Organic chemistry is important because it is the study of life and all of the chemical reactions related to
Organic chemistry is a chemistry subdiscipline involving the scientific study of the structure, properties, and reactions of organic compounds and organic materials, i.e., matter in its various forms that contain carbon atoms. Neutral organic compounds tend to be hydrophobic; that is, they are less soluble in water than in organic solvents. Exceptions include organic compounds that contain ionizable(which can be converted in ions) groups as well as low molecular weight alcohols, amines, and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.
The study of organic reactions includes probing their scope through use in preparation of target compounds (e.g., natural products, drugs, polymers, etc.) by chemical synthesis, as well as the focused study of the reactivities of individual organic molecules, both in the laboratory and via theoretical (in silico) study. Neutral organic compounds tend to be hydrophobic; that is, they are less soluble in water than in organic solvents. Exceptions include organic compounds that contain ionizable(which can be converted in ions) groups as well as low molecular weight alcohols, amines, and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.
Organic chemistry is the study of compounds that contain the element carbon. This is a wide ranging topic that overlaps with other sciences like biochemistry, medicine, and materials science. Organic chemists study the properties, structure, and chemical reactions of organic compounds. We learned that organic chemistry is the study of compounds containing carbon. Biochemistry, on the other hand, is the study of chemical processes in biological systems. These two sciences often overlap as organic compounds play an important role in many chemical processes.
organic chemistry, the branch of chemistry concerned with the composition, properties, and reactions of chemical compounds containing carbon. Specifically, the study of the hydrocarbons and their derivatives. organic chemistry the branch of chemistry dealing with organic compounds, those characterized by carbon-carbon bonds, i.e., all compounds containing carbon except oxides of carbon, carbides, and carbonates.
organic chemistry is that branch of science which deals with the study of compounds containing carbon but CO, CO2 are not considered as organic compounds. while other than those are inorganic compounds. @anon91142 - Organic chemistry is the study of compounds that come from life (or that are synthesized but originally come from life) while inorganic chemistry is the study of everything else. There are quite a few questions being asked here that look like homework questions.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Organic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds that contain carbon. Carbon has the ability to form a chemical bond with a wide variety of chemical elements and other carbon atoms. This allows a nearly unlimited number of combinations. The study of hydrocarbons is a very large part of organic chemistry. Hydrocarbons are molecules containing only the elements carbon and hydrogen in the form of chains. Hydrocarbons can be classified into two categories based on the presence of a benzene ring, a circular type of hydrocarbon
Finally, organic compounds form the basis of all earthly life and constitute a significant part of human endeavors in chemistry. Neutral organic compounds tend to be hydrophobic; that is, they are less soluble in water than in organic solvents. Exceptions include organic compounds that contain ionizable(which can be converted in ions) groups as well as low molecular weight alcohols, amines, and carboxylic acids where hydrogen bonding occurs.