Roaccutane) products, chemically related to Vitamin A, that help with acne, anti-aging, and hyper-pigmentation. You might have heard of retinoids before if you have ever used products with retinol, retinoic acid, or tretinoin (more on the different types of retinoids in the next section).
Background. Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that comes from two sources: preformed retinoids and provitamin carotenoids. Retinoids, such as retinal and retinoic acid, are found in animal sources such as liver, kidney, eggs, and dairy products. Carotenoids, such as beta-carotene (which has the highest vitamin A activity), are found in plants such as dark or yellow vegetables and carrots.
There are three generations of retinoids: 1  First generation retinoids: which include retinol, retinal, tretinoin (retinoic acid, Retin-A), isotretinoin, and alitretinoin. 2  Second generation retinoids: which include etretinate and its metabolite acitretin.
Photo: © 2009 Jupiterimages Corporation. 1. You have no idea what a retinoid is. The term describes vitamin A derivatives that unclog pores, boost collagen to reduce fine lines, and speed cell turnover to even out discoloration and smooth the skin—sometimes in as little as four weeks.
Retinoid pills treat oil production, bacteria that cause acne, and inflammation. How to use: Smooth a retinoid cream over the skin once a day 20 to 30 minutes after washing your face. What else you need to know: When you first use retinoids, you may notice redness, peeling of your skin, or worsening of your acne.
Retinoids for Acne. If you have moderate to severe acne that hasn't gotten better with other treatments, a retinoid may help. When spread on the skin, retinoids can unclog pores, allowing other medicated creams and gels to work better. They also reduce acne outbreaks by preventing dead cells from clogging pores.
There are different types of retinoids and different products with each type of retinoid as an active ingredient. Retinyl palmitate, retinol, retinaldehyde, adapalene, tretinoin, isotretinoin, and tazarotene are all various forms of retinoids, which in turn are various forms of Vitamin A.