In recent years, the Indian startup ecosystem has really taken off and come into its own—driven by factors such as massive funding, consolidation activities, evolving technology and an burgeoning domestic market. Indian Startup Ecosystem Enablers. Startups in India have given rise to more startups. Enablers, accelerators, and incubators are firms providing startups with growth advice and decision-making tools. From advising on government policies to act as market catalysts, they grow the maturity of young ventures.
Registering your company is what will finally give your startup a legal existence. Before registering it can be a sole proprietorship or a partnership but once you take the decision to register, your company takes a life of its own and can be closed only by legal intervention. 
COMMENTS. PM Modi addresses the nation on India's 69th Independence Day. New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi today announced a new campaign Start-up India, Stand up India to promote bank financing for start-ups and offer incentives to boost entrepreneurship and job creation. The initiative, he said, will give a new dimension to entrepreneurship and help set up a network of start-ups in the country. The Prime Minister also promised to do away with the current practice of interview-based selections for low-skilled government jobs.
Starting a Business in. Below is a detailed summary of the bureaucratic and legal hurdles faced by entrepreneurs wishing to incorporate and register a new firm in India. 
Startup India is a movement to foster an entrepreneur-friendly ecosystem, driven by the alliance of entrepreneurs, designers, growth hackers, tech wizards, lawyers, policy makers, accelerators and investors. We organize and facilitate entrepreneurship events to educate and empower people. He has established various startups in India and is presently engaged in running one of the largest coworking chain in India under the brand name “CoworkIn” and managing Startup Weekends across India. He has also been the active force behind coworking and coliving space Moonlighting.
Startup Village is a not-for-profit business incubator based in Kochi, Kerala, India. Started in April 2012, the organisation's aim is to launch 1,000 technology startups over the next ten years and start the search for the next billion-dollar Indian company. Sanjay Vijayakumar is the present Chairman of Startup Village. Sijo Kuruvilla George was the first Chief Executive Officer of Startup Village until June 2014.
Cold Start is a military doctrine developed by the Indian Armed Forces for use in a possible war with Pakistan. It involves the various branches of India's military conducting offensive operations as part of unified battle groups. The Cold Start doctrine is intended to allow India's conventional forces to perform holding attacks in order to prevent a nuclear retaliation from Pakistan in case of a conflict.
We must be number one in start-ups... Start-up India; Stand up India.. The initiative, he said, will encourage entrepreneurship among the youth of India. Each of the 1.25 lakh bank branches should encourage at least one Dalit or tribal entrepreneur and at least one woman entrepreneur. The initiative, he said, will give a new dimension to entrepreneurship and help set up a network of start-ups in the country. The Prime Minister also promised to do away with the current practice of interview-based selections for low-skilled government jobs.
It is India's first incubator that is funded jointly by the public and private sector. As of October 2013, Startup Village has incubated 450 startups. The promoters of Startup Village are Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, Government of Andhra Pradesh, Technopark, Trivandrum and MobME Wireless. Kris Gopalakrishnan, co-founder of Infosys and an IT entrepreneur from Kerala, is the chief mentor at Startup Village. Sanjay Vijayakumar is the present Chairman of Startup Village. Sijo Kuruvilla George was the first Chief Executive Officer of Startup Village until June 2014.