1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming.
1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5  Check temperatures periodically. 1 If an appliance thermometer was kept in the freezer, check the temperature when the power comes back on. 2  If the freezer thermometer reads 40°F or below, the food is safe and may be refrozen. 3  If a thermometer has not been kept in the freezer, check each package of food to determine its safety.
All freezers should be in the 0 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately -18 degrees to -13 degrees Celsius) range. However, when you first turn on the freezer, or put a lot of food into it, it may take up to 24 hours for the freezer to reach this temperature range. 
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. 
However, most recommend that a freezer's temperature should be maintained cold enough to keep ice cream frozen brick-solid. Ice cream … freezes at about 5°F (-15°C). Therefore, it is recommended that a freezer's temperature be maintained at 0°F (-17°C). Confidence votes 1.5K. Your freezer should be set at −18 °C (0 ºF) or lower, but definitely not above −10 ºC (14 ºF). Ice cream will start to soften between −14 °C (6 °F) and −12 °C (10 °F) (well for serving, but not for longer storage). Some yeasts can start to grow around 15°F
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 If an appliance thermometer was kept in the freezer, check the temperature when the power comes back on. 2  If the freezer thermometer reads 40°F or below, the food is safe and may be refrozen. 3  If a thermometer has not been kept in the freezer, check each package of food to determine its safety.
Turns out the temperature at which food freezes and the freezer temperature it should be stored at can be two different things. Even if your freezer seems to be doing its job, you should know the correct temperature to set it to! Kitchen Fact: The ideal temperature range for your freezer is 0° Fahrenheit or below (-18° Celsius or below).
To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. 1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming.
The ideal freezer temperature is 0 Fahrenheit (-18 Celsius) for storing food. And -10 Fahrenheit (-23 Celsius) is recommended when freezing food. The faster food freezes the smaller the ice crystals. The smaller the ice crystals the smaller the change in texture and better quality when thawed. If you want to test your freezer to see what temperature it is use a freezer thermometer. Ideally read the thermometer after the freezer door has been closed for quite awhile, like first thing in the morning, so you get an accurate reading.