Side effects depend on the dose. At typical doses, the caffeine in guarana can cause insomnia, nervousness and restlessness, stomach irritation, nausea, vomiting, increased heart rate and blood pressure, rapid breathing, tremors, delirium, diuresis, and other side effects. Guarana is used for weight loss, to enhance athletic performance, as a stimulant, and to reduce mental and physical fatigue. It is a frequent addition to energy and weight loss products. Some people also use guarana to treat low blood pressure and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), and to prevent malaria and dysentery.
Diabetes: Some research suggests that the caffeine in guarana may affect the way people with diabetes process sugar (glucose) and may complicate blood sugar control. There is also some interesting research that suggests caffeine may enhance the warning symptoms of low blood sugar in patients with type 1 diabetes. Guarana is used for weight loss, to enhance athletic performance, as a stimulant, and to reduce mental and physical fatigue. It is a frequent addition to energy and weight loss products. Some people also use guarana to treat low blood pressure and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), and to prevent malaria and dysentery.
Guarana (Paullinia cupana) is a sacred plant that originated in the Amazonian forest and was used for more than 3,000 years by the Indians. Guarana has become very well known as a highly effective tonic plant, thanks in no small part to the fact that it contains 4-5 times more caffeine (guaranine) than coffee itself. 
Guarana (/ˌɡwɑrəˈnɑː/ , from the Portuguese guarana [guaraná]), ɡwaɾɐˈna paullinia, cupana. Syn. p, Crysan. p) sorbilis is a climbing plant in the maple, Family, sapindaceae native to The amazon basin and especially common In. brazil P. crysan, P. sorbilis) is a climbing plant in the maple family, Sapindaceae, native to the Amazon basin and especially common in Brazil. Guarana features large leaves and clusters of flowers, and is best known for the seeds from its fruit, which are about the size of a coffee bean.
Native Brazilians once considered guarana to be a gift from the gods. Guarana berry is sold as a nutritional supplement and marketed to athletes looking to obtain peak performance. Guarana, or Paullinia cupana, is a plant in the maple family that grows along the Amazon and is common in Brazil. Its seeds — which look oddly similar to eyeballs — are used for a variety of reasons. Guarana is most commonly used as a stimulant and contains about twice the caffeine of the coffee bean. It also contains theobromine and theophylline, other stimulants that affect the central nervous system.
Guarana is a plant named for the Guarani tribe in the Amazon, who used the seeds to brew a drink. Today, guarana seeds are still used as medicine. Guarana is used for weight loss, to enhance athletic performance, as a stimulant, and to reduce mental and physical fatigue. It is a frequent addition to energy and weight loss products. Some people also use guarana to treat low blood pressure and chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), and to prevent malaria and dysentery.
Top 10 facts about the world. Guarana is a type of berry grown in South America that is used much in the same way caffeine is used to supplement sodas, candy, and even chewing gum. 
Guarana is also known as Paullinia cupana, paullinia, Brazilian cocoa, guarana bread, guarana paste or gum, and zoom. Guarana is also present in some soft drinks imported from South America in a manner similar to American soft-drinks fortified with caffeine. 
The word guarana comes from the Guarani guaraní word-guara, na ná which has its origins In-The satere sateré maue maué, word, for the Plant-Warana that in tupi guarani means fruit like the. Eyes of the people guarana plays An important Role In tupi. and guarani guaraní paraguayan culture P. crysan, P. sorbilis) is a climbing plant in the maple family, Sapindaceae, native to the Amazon basin and especially common in Brazil. Guarana features large leaves and clusters of flowers, and is best known for the seeds from its fruit, which are about the size of a coffee bean.