Metamorphic rocks started out as some other type of rock, but have been substantially changed from their original igneous, sedimentary, or earlier metamorphic form. Metamorphic rocks form when rocks are subjected to high heat, high pressure, hot, mineral-rich fluids or, more commonly, some combination of these factors. Foliation forms when pressure squeezes the flat or elongate minerals within a rock so they become aligned. These rocks develop a platy or sheet-like structure that reflects the direction that pressure was applied in. Slate, schist, and gneiss (pronounced 'nice') are all foliated metamorphic rocks.
Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as hornfels, marble, quartzite, and novaculite do not have a layered or banded appearance. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common types of metamorphic rocks are shown on this page. Hornfels is a fine-grained nonfoliated metamorphic rock with no specific composition. Metamorphic rocks have been modified by heat, pressure and chemical processes, usually while buried deep below Earth's surface. Exposure to these extreme conditions has altered the mineralogy, texture and chemical composition of the rocks. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure
Gneiss is a high grade metamorphic rock. This means that gneiss has been subjected to more heat and pressure than schist. Gneiss is coarser than schist and has distinct banding. This banding has alternating layers that are composed of different minerals. The minerals that compose gneiss are the same as granite. Schist is a medium grade metamorphic rock. This means that it has been subjected to more heat and pressure than slate, which is a low grade metamorphic rock. As you can see in the photo above schist is a more coarse grained rock. The individual grains of minerals can be seen by the naked eye.
metamorphic rock is made by heat and pressure on layers of sediments and in creates a smooth rock such as granite. 15 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  7 Minerals in Metamorphic Rocks Geologists study the conditions that caused the formation of the rocks and features that comprise the planet Earth. Corundum, another metamorphic mineral, … is used for abrasives Kyanite and its polymorphs-for ceramics Graphite-pencils Many economic deposits of gold, copper, tungsten and iron occur in metamorphic rocks. Asbestos is a metamorphic mineral which was formerly used for insulation. 2
Following are examples of three metamorphic rocks and a list of their uses. Marble is a metamorphic rock that is used to make floor tiles, counter tops and it is carved into statues and was used extensively in the building of the Roman Colosseum and other historic buildings. Corundum, another metamorphic mineral, … is used for abrasives Kyanite and its polymorphs-for ceramics Graphite-pencils Many economic deposits of gold, copper, tungsten and iron occur in metamorphic rocks. Asbestos is a metamorphic mineral which was formerly used for insulation. 25 people found this useful.
The protolith may be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock. Metamorphic rocks make up a large part of the Earth 's crust and are classified by texture and by chemical and mineral assemblage (metamorphic facies). They may be formed simply by being deep beneath the Earth's surface, subjected to high temperatures and the great pressure of the rock layers above it. 
Pictures of Foliated and Non-Foliated Rock Types. Amphibolite is a non-foliated metamorphic rock that forms through recrystallization under conditions of high viscosity and directed pressure. It is composed primarily of hornblende (amphibole) and plagioclase, usually with very little quartz. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Metamorphic rocks have been modified by heat, pressure and chemical processes, usually while buried deep below Earth's surface. Exposure to these extreme conditions has altered the mineralogy, texture and chemical composition of the rocks. There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure
Gneiss. Gneiss is a high metamorphic grade of foliated rock composed from granite, schist or other types of rock. It is coarse-grained rock with bands which alternate dark and light. The banded patterns sometimes swirl as if the rock had been folded. This rock is durable and is widely used as building rock. Foliated metamorphic rocks are slate, schist, phyllite and gneiss. The properties of these rocks make them useful in industry and design. When you have a project that you are thinking about using rock to complete, you may want to consider using foliated metamorphic rock.