The thyroid gland is influenced by hormones produced by two other organs: 1  The pituitary gland, located at the base of the brain, produces thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). 2  The hypothalamus, a small part of the brain above the pituitary, produces thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH).
The pituitary gland is a gland in the brain which produces chemicals called hormones (an endocrine gland). Hormones are chemical messengers which help different organs in the body communicate with each other. The pituitary gland is one part of a messenger system.
Overview. The pituitary gland is a pea-sized endocrine gland that sits at the base of the brain. Often referred to as the “master gland”, the pituitary gland synthesizes and releases various hormones that affect several organs throughout the body (see the images below).
1 Hormone released from the hypothalamus: thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH) . 2  Hormone released from the pituitary gland: thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) . 3  Key gland and hormones: thyroid gland. 4  Releases thyroxine (T4) which is converted to its active form triiodothyronine (T3) in the target tissue.
1 The hormones of the pituitary gland help regulate the functions of other endocrine glands. 2  The pituitary gland has two parts—the anterior lobe and posterior lobe—that have two very separate functions. 3  The hypothalamus sends signals to the pituitary to release or inhibit pituitary hormone production.
Prolactin, which stimulates milk production Thyroid stimulating hormone, which stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete thyroid hormones. There are also some hormones that are produced by the hypothalamus and then stored in the posterior pituitary gland prior to being released into the bloodstream.
Take the example of the control of thyroid hormones from the thyroid gland in your neck. The hypothalamus produces a hormone called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH travels to the pituitary gland and stimulates it to release thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH).
The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones.
The hypothalamus is a brain structure from which the pituitary receives chemical signals that control its action. Nerve endings from the hypothalamus stimulate the posterior portion of the pituitary to secrete oxytocin and antidiuretic hormone (ADH).
Pituitary Gland. The pituitary gland is one of the principal glands of the endocrine system. It releases at least nine hormones affecting a wide variety of body functions, including growth, reproduction, and levels of electrolytes and water in the body fluids.