Hungarian is the official language of Hungary, and thus an official language of the European Union. Hungarian is also one of the official languages of Vojvodina and an official language of three municipalities in Slovenia: Hodoš, Dobrovnik and Lendava, along with Slovene. Another source differs in that loanwords in Hungarian are held to constitute about 45% of bases in the language. Although the lexical percentage of native words in Hungarian is 55%, their use accounts for 88.4% of all words used (the percentage of loanwords used being just 11.6%).
Hungarian is not an Indo-European language (i.e. Hindi actually has more in common with English/French/German/Russian etc. than Hungarian does), so it’s very different to all of its neighbours and this gives it the reputation of being among the most challenging languages in the world. And yes, it can be “hard”. 
Hungarian is a Uralic language of the Ugric group. It has been spoken in the region of modern-day Hungary since the Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin in the late 9th century. The predecessor language of Hungarian separated from the Ob-Ugric languages, probably still during the Bronze Age. There is no attestation for a period of close to two millennia. The name Magyar once was the name of a Hungarian tribe, Megyer(i) . It likely means talking man. The first syllable may be cognate to the ethnonym Mansi, which in the Mansi language (манси mańśi) means simply 'man, Mansi'.
Hungarian (magyar). Hungarian is an Ugric language with about 15 million speakers in Hungary (Magyarorszag), Magyarország, Romania, Serbia ukraine And. Slovakia there are also many people Of hungarian origin in THE uk and Other european, countries THE, Usa canada And. australia There are also many people of Hungarian origin in the UK and other European countries, the USA, Canada and Australia. Hungarian is a highly inflected language in which nouns can have up to 238 possible forms.
Hungarian (Magyar) is a member of the Uralic language family. It is the largest of the Uralic languages in terms of the number of speakers and the only one spoken in Central Europe. Its closest relatives are Khanty and Mansi, minority languages of Russia, spoken 2,000 miles away, east of the Ural mountains in northwestern Siberia. My party pieces on what Hungarian is like include explaining the words they have for things like cheese (sajt) and trees (fak), fák so “that a fakon”, fákon sajt ‘which means cheese on’ (the, trees grammatically if), not idiomatically sounds like pure Swearing. in english
The Hungarian language uses the so-called eastern name order, in which the surname (general, deriving from the family) comes first and the given name comes last. If a second given name is used, this follows the first given name. Another source differs in that loanwords in Hungarian are held to constitute about 45% of bases in the language. Although the lexical percentage of native words in Hungarian is 55%, their use accounts for 88.4% of all words used (the percentage of loanwords used being just 11.6%).
Hungarian phrasebook. Hungarian is a non-Indo-European language spoken in Central Europe. Speakers are found mainly in Hungary but also in parts of Austria, Slovakia, Romania, Ukraine, Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia. It is surrounded by Germanic, Romance and Slavic languages, and while it borrows heavily from them it is ultimately unrelated
Hungarian Word List. The purpose of this list is to give a rough idea of the Hungarian language. The words listed below are not the most common Hungarian words, but a broad sampling of words. See the Word Lists page for more details. 
Outside Hungary it is also spoken by communities of Hungarian people in neighboring countries—especially in Romania, Slovakia, Serbia and Ukraine —and by Hungarian diaspora communities worldwide. Like Finnish and Estonian, it belongs to the Uralic language family, with its closest relatives being Mansi and Khanty. Another source differs in that loanwords in Hungarian are held to constitute about 45% of bases in the language. Although the lexical percentage of native words in Hungarian is 55%, their use accounts for 88.4% of all words used (the percentage of loanwords used being just 11.6%).