During the development of the embryo sac there are three successive synchronous mitotic divisions of its nuclei, so that their number increases in the progression 1:2:4:8, and they are distributed evenly along the ends of the growing embryo sac. Formerly, the female gametophyte of gymnosperms was also called an embryo sac; however, it differs in principle from the embryo sac in the development of a massive multicellular gametophyte body and in the formation of archegonia. Maheshwari, P. Embriologiia pokrytosemennykh. Moscow, 1957.
Embryo Sac. or female gametophyte, the sexual generation of angiospermous plants. The embryo sac develops in the central portion of the ovule (nucellus), where the maternal macrosporocyte, as a result of meiotic division, forms four haploid cells (a tetrad of macrospores), of which one develops (the rest atrophy). Formerly, the female gametophyte of gymnosperms was also called an embryo sac; however, it differs in principle from the embryo sac in the development of a massive multicellular gametophyte body and in the formation of archegonia. Maheshwari, P. Embriologiia pokrytosemennykh. Moscow, 1957.
In seed plants, the ovule (small egg ) is the structure that gives rise to and contains the female reproductive cells. It consists of three parts: The integument(s) forming its outer layer(s), the nucellus (or remnant of the megasporangium), and female gametophyte (formed from haploid megaspore) in its center. The female gametophyte—specifically termed a megagametophyte —is also called the embryo sac in angiosperms. The megagametophyte produces an egg cell (or several egg cells in some groups) for the purpose of fertilization
A structure called the yolk sac forms from the cells of the hypoblast. The yolk sac is a structure that provides nutrients from the mother to the embryo before the placenta is ready to function. A membrane called the amnion forms from the epiblast. The epiblast also gives rise to the entire head and body of the embryo. The yolk sac is also the site where the first blood cells form and where reproductive cells, or germ cells, originate. Additionally, a portion of the yolk sac is drawn into the embryo forming the lining of the digestive tract. Figure 2.4 - Internal Features of 13-Day Embryo [ PDF version of FIG 2.4 ].
embryo sac. An oval structure within an ovule of a flowering plant that contains the egg cell. Together with the fertilized egg cell, it develops into a seed. Translations. [ˈɛmbrɪəʊˈsaek] ˈɛmbrɪəʊˈsæk → n sacco. embrionale 
Definition of EMBRYO SAC. : the female gametophyte of a seed plant consisting of a thin-walled sac within the nucellus that contains the egg nucleus and other nuclei which give rise to endosperm on fertilization. See embryo sac defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
A blighted ovum (also known as “anembryonic pregnancy”) happens when a fertilized egg attaches itself to the uterine wall, but the embryo does not develop. Cells develop to form the pregnancy sac, but not the embryo itself.A blighted ovum occurs within the first trimester, often before a woman knows she is pregnant. A high level of chromosome abnormalities usually causes a woman’s body to naturally miscarry.
In flowering plants, the megagametophyte (also referred to as the embryo sac) is much smaller and typically consists of only seven cells and eight nuclei. This type of megagametophyte develops from the megaspore through three rounds of mitotic divisions. It consists of three parts: The integument(s) forming its outer layer(s), the nucellus (or remnant of the megasporangium), and female gametophyte (formed from haploid megaspore) in its center. The female gametophyte—specifically termed a megagametophyte —is also called the embryo sac in angiosperms.
The yolk sac is a membranous sac attached to an embryo, formed by cells of the hypoblast adjacent to the embryonic disk. This is alternatively called the umbilical vesicle by the Terminologia Embryologica (TE), though yolk sac is far more widely used. Artificially colored, showing gestational sac, yolk sac and embryo (measuring 3 mm as the distance between the + signs). The yolk sac is the first element seen in the gestational sac during pregnancy, usually at 3 days gestation. Identification of the gestational sac is a critical landmark in monitoring an early pregnancy, and can be reliably seen in human pregnancy using ultrasoun