Piano history shows that from the harp sprung the clavichord and the harpsichord. The clavichord evolved from the monochord during the middle ages. It was a very popular instrument from 15th to 18th centuries. The clavichord is a rectangular keyboard instrument. Its brass strings are arranged by pairs. Press a key and a tangent strikes the stings above to sound akin to a guitar.
Today clavichords are played primarily by Renaissance, Baroque, and Classical music enthusiasts. They attract many interested buyers, and are manufactured worldwide. There are now numerous clavichord societies around the world, and some 400 recordings of the instrument have been made in the past 70 years. One of the earliest references to the clavichord in England occurs in the privy-purse expenses of Elizabeth of York, queen of Henry VII, in an entry dated August 1502: Item. The same day, Hugh Denys for money by him delivered to a stranger that gave the queen a payre of clavycordes.
Why was the clavichord invented? The clavichord is a type of keyboard instrument that is believed to  have been invented in the 14th century. The first written  references to the instrument occur at the tur … n of the 1500s. It is  very likely that the clavichord evolved from the monochord, which  was used to teach the theory of musical intervals. 
The harpsichord was an important keyboard instrument in Europe from the 15th through the 18th centuries, and as revived in the 20th, is widely played today. Psaltery of the 14th century from the book De Musica by Boethius. Whoever invented the harpsichord did not have to proceed from scratch. The idea of controlling a musical instrument with a keyboard was already well worked out for the organ, an instrument that is far older than the harpsichord.
The clavichord was very popular from the 16th century to the 18th century, but mainly flourished in German-speaking lands, Scandinavia, and the Iberian Peninsula in the latter part of this period. One of the earliest references to the clavichord in England occurs in the privy-purse expenses of Elizabeth of York, queen of Henry VII, in an entry dated August 1502: Item. The same day, Hugh Denys for money by him delivered to a stranger that gave the queen a payre of clavycordes.
The Harpsichord. A stringed keyboard instrument developed during the 14th and 15th century, the harpsichord was widely used until the early 19th century when it was superseded by the piano. 20th century revivals of the instrument feature music of the 16th to 18th centuries with particular emphasis on Bach's music. Harpsichord details. A stringed keyboard instrument developed during the 14th and 15th century, the harpsichord was widely used until the early 19th century when it was superseded by the piano. 20th century revivals of the instrument feature music of the 16th to 18th centuries with particular emphasis on Bach's music.
[edit] History and use. The clavichord was invented in the early fourteenth century. It was popular in the 16th-18th centuries, but mainly flourished in German-speaking lands, Scandinavia and the Iberian Peninsula in the latter period; it fell out of use in the 1840s. In the late 1890s, Arnold Dolmetsch revived clavichord construction. They maintain a level of interest amongst buyers, and are manufactured worldwide. A modern clavichord can range in price from $2,400 to as much as $20,000. There are now numerous clavichord societies around the world, and some 400 recordings of the instrument have been made in the past 70 years.
History and use. The clavichord was invented in the early fourteenth century. It was popular in the 16th-18th centuries, but mainly flourished in German-speaking lands, Scandinavia and the Iberian Peninsula in the latter period; it fell out of use in the 1840s. In the late 1890s, Arnold Dolmetsch revived clavichord construction. 
The oldest form of stringed keyboard instruments is the clavichord. It was invented in the early 1400s and continued to be popular until the early 1800s. The clavichord is a predecessor of the piano. The clavichord has a rectangular case with the keyboard lengthwise to the left and the soundboard at the right end. The strings run from tuning pins at the right end of the case, over a bridge set on the soundboard, to hitch pins at the back and left end of the case.