How to stake peas will be determined by the variety of pea you plant and how tall it gets. Some peas climb to just 3 feet, while others reach over 6 feet. Knowing the height your peas will reach helps when it comes to deciding the best way to support pea plants. 1 Old farm fencing or chicken wire is another means of supporting pea plants. 2  Locate the fencing close enough to growing peas that they can reach it easily. 3  Nylon mesh attached to stakes is another way
1 Place stakes every few feet behind your peas and string a sturdy cotton twine along the middle and tops of the stakes. 2  The twine is an adequate pea plant support. 3  You may find some vines climbing the stakes. 4  Old farm fencing or chicken wire is another means of supporting pea plants. 1 Old farm fencing or chicken wire is another means of supporting pea plants. 2  Locate the fencing close enough to growing peas that they can reach it easily. 3  Nylon mesh attached to stakes is another way
Provide a support. Most peas and beans are twining plants. You will therefore need something for them to twine on: a fence, a net strung between two poles, individual poles for each plant, or a bean tepee (made of 3-4 bamboo poles tied together at the top). It's best to have a support ready to plant while you plant the seeds.
One thing I discovered after making that decision is that peas grow on a vine and need some kind of support, like a trellis. So, since I had to figure out how to make one, I thought I would share the how-to with you. 
How to build and utilize a trellis for sugar snap peas so that you can successfully grow and support your sugar snap peas to harvest and enjoy. 1  People & Blogs. How to build and utilize a trellis for sugar snap peas so that you can successfully grow and support your sugar snap peas to harvest and enjoy. Category. License.
Overview. Garden peas need support to keep them off the ground where they could rot. The solution is to build a trellis of two vertical posts with a horizontal piece connecting them at the top. You'll then use twine both vertically and horizontally between the support posts. Step 1. Run the twine through the first hole or eye at the bottom of the frame and stretch it across to the opposite bottom of the frame. Run the twine through the opposite eye or hole and then upward to the next eye or hole and back to the first post.
No garden should be without peas when it is so easy to support them. Peas are an easy and satisfying garden plant to grow, but sugar snap peas really like to grow and can top 8 feet in height. Unless you enjoy climbing on things to harvest them, limit your trellises and teepees to a more manageable 6 feet, and let the vines flop down when they reach the top. 1 Pieces of rebar, cut to length, make excellent sturdy stakes, and you can bend them into candy-cane shapes to act as short anchoring stakes for the line-support-style trellis. 2  If you do not have access to a cutting disc or hack saw, ask employees at a local do-it-yourself store if they will cut them for you.
Simply zig-zag the panels through your row of peas and push them into the ground (add a stake on each end in windy locations). Total length 9′-3″ by 64″ high installed. Trellises fold for easy off-season storage. Reusable year after year, and they can also support tomatoes as well as cucumbers and other vining crops. This Pea Tunnel makes the most of tight garden spaces and fits nicely in a 3′ to 4′ raised bed. Plant a row of peas on each side and they’ll climb up and over. The downside is that these plants get very tall, usually topping out at well over 7 feet. And that gets me back to vegetable supports. It’s critical that you decide how you’re going to support your peas before you plant them. Ideally, you’re ready to put up the trellis the same day you plant your peas. If the weather is right, the seeds will germinate in a matter of days, and baby peas will start searching immediately for something to grab onto
When your vining type peas begin to show growth, it is time to think about staking peas in the garden. Supporting pea plants directs the growth of the pea vine, keeps it off the ground and makes picking peas a little easier, as the pea plant support makes the pods more easily visible. 1 Old farm fencing or chicken wire is another means of supporting pea plants. 2  Locate the fencing close enough to growing peas that they can reach it easily. 3  Nylon mesh attached to stakes is another way