Because of its relative durability, pottery comprises a large part of the archaeological record of Ancient Greece, and since there is so much of it (some 100,000 vases are recorded in the Corpus vasorum antiquorum), it has exerted a disproportionately large influence on our understanding of Greek society. 
The term pottery may also be used as an adjective with some objects, such as small figurines. In industrialized countries, modern pottery can be classified two ways. There is commercial pottery or ceramics which are produced in factories, and there is studio pottery which is produced by individual craftsmen. You may also hear of  art pottery , which may be either produced commercially or by an individual craftsman.
Pottery is clay that is modeled, dried, and fired, usually with a glaze or finish, into a vessel or decorative object. Clay is a natural product dug from the earth, which has decomposed from rock within the earth's crust for millions of years. 
pottery. Strictly, all baked-clay ware except stoneware and porcelain. More generally, the art of shaping and molding all clays while soft and malleable and firing them in a kiln to render the created shapes firm and stable. Firing drives off the water combined with the constituent materials within clay and binds them together.
Pottery is mainly of three types. Earthenware used for pottery tableware and decorative objects with a composition of 25% ball clay, 28% kaolin, 32% quartz and 15% feldspar. No, the word pottery is a noun, a common, concrete, uncountable noun; a word for objects made of earthenware and baked in an oven. The noun pottery is also a count noun for a … factory where these objects are made.
All clay is a ceramic material, but there are other ceramic materials, as well. Glazes are also ceramic materials, because they permanently change during firing. Industrial ceramics include a range of materials such as silica carbide and zirconium oxide. There is commercial pottery or ceramics which are produced in factories, and there is studio pottery which is produced by individual craftsmen. You may also hear of  art pottery , which may be either produced commercially or by an individual craftsman.
Pottery is the ceramic material which makes up potterywares, of which major types include earthenware, stoneware and porcelain. The place where such wares are made is also called a pottery (plural potteries). Pottery also refers to the art or craft of a potter or the manufacture of pottery. A dictionary definition is simply objects of fired clays. The earliest forms of pottery were made from clays that were fired at low temperatures in pit-fires or in open bonfires. They were hand formed and undecorated. Because the biscuit form of earthenware is porous, it has limited utility for storage of liquids.
Pottery is generally considered to be containers made from clay. Pot is a term used for any number of container forms. Both words derive from the Old English potian, to push. When we consider how the potter pushes as they throw the clay on the wheel, it is easy to see how the process got its name. There is commercial pottery or ceramics which are produced in factories, and there is studio pottery which is produced by individual craftsmen. You may also hear of  art pottery , which may be either produced commercially or by an individual craftsman.
Pottery is made by forming a clay body into objects of a required shape and heating them to high temperatures in a kiln which removes all the water from the clay, which induces reactions that lead to permanent changes including increasing their strength and hardening and setting their shape. The earliest forms of pottery were made from clays that were fired at low temperatures in pit-fires or in open bonfires. They were hand formed and undecorated. Because the biscuit form of earthenware is porous, it has limited utility for storage of liquids.
History. Pottery is one of the most enduring materials known to humankind. In most places it is the oldest and most widespread art; primitive peoples the world over have fashioned pots and bowls of baked clay for their daily use. 