Leopards live in parts of Asia and Africa. Leopards are mainly found in sub-Saharan Africa. There are also small populations in Pakistan, India, Indochina, Malaysia and Chin … a. They used to be found across Asia and Africa, but they have since become extinct in many countries. They are thought to be extinct in Northern Africa. In the wild, leopards live in grasslands, woodlands and in forests beside rivers. Answer 3: Leopards live in parts of Asia and Africa. Answer 4: Leopards are mainly found in sub-Saharan Africa. There are also small populations in Pakistan, India, Indochina, Malaysia and China
In the wild, leopards live in grasslands, woodlands and in forests beside rivers. the Leopard Panthera pardus It is now chiefly found in sub-Saharan Africa; there are also fragmented populations in the Indian subcontinent, Sri Lanka, Indochina, Malaysia, Indonesia, and China. They are thought to be extinct in Northern Africa. In the wild, leopards live in grasslands, woodlands and in forests beside rivers. Answer 3: Leopards live in parts of Asia and Africa. Answer 4: Leopards are mainly found in sub-Saharan Africa. There are also small populations in Pakistan, India, Indochina, Malaysia
Leopard Range. Leopards are graceful and powerful big cats closely related to lions, tigers, and jaguars. They live in sub-Saharan Africa, northeast Africa, Central Asia, India, and China. However, many of their populations are endangered, especially outside of Africa. Near Threatened. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Leopards are graceful and powerful big cats closely related to lions, tigers, and jaguars. They live in sub-Saharan Africa, northeast Africa, Central Asia, India, and China.
More Precise Locations. The snow leopard can be found in the mountainous regions of 12 Central and South Asian countries: Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Snow Leopards mainly hunt wild sheep and goats. Snow leopards do not live in the tundra. Their habitat is known as  the alpine or sub-alpine zone and they move back and forth between  the two zones depending on the season … . In the warmer months they  live in the alpine zone but in the colder ones they move to the  sub-alpines.
Audio. Leopards are graceful and powerful big cats closely related to lions, tigers, and jaguars. They live in sub-Saharan Africa, northeast Africa, Central Asia, India, and China. However, many of their populations are endangered, especially outside of Africa. Near Threatened. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Leopards are graceful and powerful big cats closely related to lions, tigers, and jaguars. They live in sub-Saharan Africa, northeast Africa, Central Asia, India, and China.
SNow leopards live in the mountains of central Asia. They live in Afghanistan, Bhutan, China, India, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, Tajiki … stan, and Uzbekistan. They are thought to be extinct in Northern Africa. In the wild, leopards live in grasslands, woodlands and in forests beside rivers. Answer 3: Leopards live in parts of Asia and Africa. Answer 4: Leopards are mainly found in sub-Saharan Africa. There are also small populations in Pakistan, India, Indochina, Malaysia and China
Leopards are found throughout most of Africa and Asia from the middle east to the Soviet Union, Korea, China, India, and Malaysia. Leopards live in a variety of habitats including forests, mountains, grassland and deserts. 