Chasteberry is not a hormone, nor does it contain hormones. It is a gentle and slow-acting herbal extract as opposed to a hormone prescription that can be expected to have a forceful and immediate impact on your glands and organs. It does not have the side effects that synthetic hormones have.
Vitex agnus-castus (chaste tree berry) is a well-known herb that has been used for centuries in Europe for hormonal imbalances in women. It may help women with PCOS who are lacking a normal menstrual cycle and thus don't ovulate or menstruate.
Vitex agnus-castus is the fruit of the chaste tree. The fruit and seed are used to make medicine. There is some scientific evidence that chasteberry can reduce symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS), especially breast pain, bloating, depression, headache, and constipation.
For centuries, chasteberry has been used to treat many hormone-related gynecologic conditions. The current literature supports the use of chasteberry for cyclical breast discomfort and premenstrual syndrome; data on its use for menstrual irregularities and fertility disorders are weak.
Chasteberry (Vitex agnus-catus) is a small brown berry fruit of the chaste tree which is about the size of peppercorns and smells like peppermint. Chasteberry has been used for medicinal purposes for centuries for its health benefits. In its ripe form, the fruit is used in the preparation of herbal liquids and powdered extracts. The fruit is also known as vitex, monk's pepper, or monk's berry as it was used by ancient Romans to curb the sexual urges in monks.
Chasteberry is the fruit of the chaste tree, a small shrub-like tree native to Central Asia and the Mediterranean region. The dried ripe chasteberry is used to prepare liquid extracts or solid extracts that are put into capsules and tablets.
Vitex (Chasteberry) Aids Fertility and PCOS. Vitex agnus-castus (chaste tree berry) is a well-known herb that has been used for centuries in Europe for hormonal imbalances in women. It may help women with PCOS who are lacking a normal menstrual cycle and thus don't ovulate or menstruate.
In medieval times, the chasteberry (botanically known as Vitex agnus-castus) was thought to suppress the libido of both males and females. Legend has it that monks once chewed on the dried berries in an effort to adhere to their vows of celibacy.