483 pages on this wiki. Iberia is a peninsula located in the extreme southwest of Europe, encompassing several nations. The name comes originally from the Greek Iberia. The Romans adoped the name Hispania, dividing the peninsula into multiple regions. It is bordered on the southeast and east by the Mediterranean Sea, and on the north, west and southwest by the Atlantic Ocean. The Pyrenees form the northeast edge of the peninsula, separating it from the rest of Europe. In the south, it approaches the northern coast of Africa.
Spain, Portugal, and Andorra are located on the Iberian Peninsula. The United Kingdom also has a territory, Gibraltar, located on the peninsula. The Iberian Peninsula includes … Andorra, Portugal, and Spain. The Iberian Peninsula is located on the Southwestern tip of the European Continent. The Iberian Peninsula includes the countries of Portugal, Andorra, Spain, and the British C … rown colony Gibraltar. It is only 5 miles from the continent of Africa
Spain, Portugal, and Andorra are located on the Iberian Peninsula. The United Kingdom also has a territory, Gibraltar, located on the peninsula. The Iberian Peninsula includes … Andorra, Portugal, and Spain. 2 people found this useful. The two major countries are Spain and Portugal. The principality of Andorra, in the Pyrenees mountains between France and Spain, might also be included. The other country repr … esented on the peninsula is the United Kingdom, with its small (2.5 square mile) territory of Gibraltar at the southern tip of Spain.
Iberian peninsula map and information page. Iberian Peninsula. Located on the southwestern tip of the European continent, the Iberian Peninsula, includes the countries of Andorra, Portugal and Spain, and the British Crown colony of Gibraltar. At the nearest point, it is only 5 miles (8km) from the continent of Africa. print this map.
Portugal, Spain, and Andorra are located on the Iberian Peninsula, which also includes part of southern France and the territory of Gibraltar (UK).    The Iberian Peninsu … la consists of Portugal, Spain, Andorra, and France. The Iberian Peninsula is located on the Southwestern tip of the European Continent. The Iberian Peninsula includes the countries of Portugal, Andorra, Spain, and the British C … rown colony Gibraltar. It is only 5 miles from the continent of Africa
Portugal, Spain, and Andorra are located on the Iberian Peninsula, which also includes part of southern France and the territory of Gibraltar (UK). The two major countries are Spain and Portugal. The principality of Andorra, in the Pyrenees mountains between France and Spain, might also be included. The other country repr … esented on the peninsula is the United Kingdom, with its small (2.5 square mile) territory of Gibraltar at the southern tip of Spain.
The Iberian Peninsula, 1491. A map of the Iberian Peninsula in 1491, just prior to the surrender of Granada by Muhammad XII to Ferdinand and Isabella, king and queen of Castile and Aragon (January 2, 1492). The map shows Portugal, the frontier with Gascogne, France, the Nasrid K... Regional European maps of the Iberian Peninsula region from the Maps ETC collection. This includes physical and political maps, early history and empires, WWI maps, climate maps, relief maps, vegetation maps, population density and distribution maps, cultural maps, and economic/resource maps.