In Mesopotamian Mythology Edit. According to ancient Mesopotamian mythology, Anunnaki is a Anu is the supreme deity in the Sumerian belief system. Ki is the goddess of the Earth. The offspring of Anu and Ki are called the Anunnaki. Instead of thinking in terms of black and white, it is useful to realize that Anu and Ki should be thought of metaphorically as the people from the sky (IBIRDS) and the planet itself, respectively.
The Anunnaki (also transcribed as: Anunaki, Anunna, Anunnaku, Ananaki and other variations) are a group of deities in ancient Mesopotamian cultures (i.e., Sumerian, Akkadian, Assyrian, and Babylonian). In gratitude, the Anunnaki, the Great Gods, built Esagila, the splendid: They raised high the head of Esagila equaling Apsu. Having built a stage-tower as high as Apsu, they set up in it an abode for Marduk, Enlil, Ea.. Then they built their own shrines.
Anunna (Anunnaku, Anunnaki) (a group of gods). The term Anunna indicates a group of gods in the Mesopotamian pantheon. Later on, it is sometimes used to describe the underworld gods (as opposed to the gods of heaven, the Igigi). 
The term Anunnaki is often used in ancient texts as referring to a group of gods. The name is a derivative of the names heaven and earth, Anu and Ki but is also translated by some as “those of royal blood” and also “princely offspring”. July 26, 2013 - The Anunnaki are believed to have arrived on Earth in ancient times and said to have interbred with humans to create a hybrid race that jumpstarted the human race as we now know us. It is believed that the Bible makes reference to the Anunnaki or their first generations of offspring as the Neph ...
In fact, Anunnaki is a generic term for gods, especially secondary gods, and means gods of heaven and earth, not those who from heaven to earth came.. An or Anu means sky and represents the name of the god of heaven, while Ki means earth and is the name of the earth goddess. Enlil/Ellil/Bel. The king of the Anunnaki, Enlil is the storm/wind god, also essentially the same as the later Bel or Baal, the Canaanite sun god/solar hero. Enlil and Ninlil give birth to the moon god Nanna, a major astral deity of the Sumerians, who was called Sin in Babylonian.
Revised 20 June 2012 This page is about the Anunnaki and is one of the most popular. My guess is that many visiting this site arrive here first. If this describes you then you should read the introduction first to get a better understanding of what this page and all the other pages on this site are about. It is mainly these seven that comprise most of the Sumerian epics. The pantheon of gods in the above description is the most broad description but fails to explain who and what they were. The Anunnaki were real and just as the Sumerians wrote they did come from a place we call heaven.
Uploaded on Sep 22, 2011. This Video Explains why the Anunnaki came to this Planet and what it was they where looking for. It also explains how the Anunnaki became what they are today (Illuminati), and much, much more!!! This is a AWESOME Video with a LOT of good Information!! A must see. 1  Science & Technology
The Anunnaki are a group of deities in ancient Mesopotamian cultures. The name is variously written a-nuna, a-nuna-ke4-ne, or a-nun-na, meaning something to the effect of those of royal blood or princely offspring. 
A possible representation of the Anunnaki. The Annunaki were the main gods of the Sumerian pantheon. Their name and certain aspects of their mythology have been co-opted by certain theorists on several occasions. The offspring of Anu and Ki are called the Anunnaki. Instead of thinking in terms of black and white, it is useful to realize that Anu and Ki should be thought of metaphorically as the people from the sky (IBIRDS) and the planet itself, respectively.