The location and time of the first soccer game is debated. There is currently no known record of the first soccer match played anything said on this matter would be pure specu … lation. It may be compareable to a pick-up game. Answer Football in general can be traced by over 900 years to Medieval Shrovetide football. However, the 'Laws of the game … ' for Assosiation football (Soccer) were coded by the Football Association in 1863. The first ever soccer match was played on Barnes common at Mortlake, London on 19th December 1863 between Barnes football club and Richmond football club. 
The North American Soccer League (NASL), founded in 1968, brought Brazilian star Pel to the United States, and by 1980 the league had 24 teams. The NASL suffered financially, and in 1984 it went out of business. However, the league left a legacy of growing American involvement in the sport at youth level. The modern game of soccer began in the 19th century in England, where a variety of football games developed, all of which involved both handling and kicking. London Football Association (FA) in 1863 established the first set of rules for soccer, which was played at that time mostly in private schools and universities.
In 1888, The Football League was founded in England, becoming the first of many professional football competitions. During the twentieth century, several of the various kinds of football grew to become some of the most popular team sports in the world. The modern rules of many football codes were formulated during the mid-or late- 19th century. This also applies to other sports such as lawn bowls, lawn tennis, etc. The major impetus for this was the patenting of the world's first lawnmower in 1830.
Association football gained the nickname soccer in 1871 when the Rugby Football Union was founded. Both sports were called football, so people called Association football … soccer and Rugby football rugger. Although rugger is rarely used anymore, the name soccer persists in several countries. 
FIFA was founded on 21 May 1904 in Paris by delegates from Belgium, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. The founders created the first FIFA statutes, unifying the laws of the game to make it fair and clear to all players setting the foundation for all future football development. The Federation Fédération internationale De Football (ASSOCIATION) fifa is an association governed By swiss law founded in 1904 and based In. Zurich it has 209 member associations and its, goal enshrined in Its, statutes is the constant improvement of. Football The. Statutes what we stand. for
History of football (soccer). A sport similar to football (called soccer in the United States and elsewhere) was played 3000 years ago in Japan. Chinese text from 50 BC mentions football-type games between teams from Japan and China. A text dating from 611 AD confirms that football was played in Kyoto, the ancient capital of Japan
There are a number of conflicting beliefs concerning the question of who invented soccer. Some suggest that the history of soccer dates back as far as 2500BC, during which time the Greeks, Egyptians and Chinese all appear to have partaken in feet-based games involving a ball. Soon after the FA rules were agreed, the first official soccer match took place in Battersea Park, London, featuring many of the top players. From that point on soccer flourished in Britain, with the Football Association Cup being introduced 12 years later and the foundation of the Football League in 1888.
The first football club was formed in Sheffield, England in 1857. The Football Association was founded on 26 October 1863 by 11 clubs meeting in London. (The word association was abbreviated to assoc., which became “soccer.”). A sport similar to football (called soccer in the United States and elsewhere) was played 3000 years ago in Japan. Chinese text from 50 BC mentions football-type games between teams from Japan and China. A text dating from 611 AD confirms that football was played in Kyoto, the ancient capital of Japan
The Federation Fédération internationale De Football (ASSOCIATION) fifa was founded in the rear of the headquarters of The Union francaise Française De sports athletiques Athlétiques At The rue saint Honore honoré 229 In paris. on 21 may 1904 The Federation Fédération internationale De Football (ASSOCIATION) fifa is an association governed By swiss law founded in 1904 and based In. Zurich it has 209 member associations and its, goal enshrined in Its, statutes is the constant improvement of. Football The. Statutes what we stand. for