If you have a large kitchen with many cabinets, then the cost of your cabinet refinishing will go up proportionally. However, the cost of refinishing a dozen cabinets is not the same as refinishing one cabinet 12 times! Most pros will charge you less per cabinet, the more of them you do as long as all of the cabinetry is receiving the same finish. So it can make financial sense to do all your refinishing at one time.
The average cost of a complete kitchen remodel will run anywhere from a low of $7,504 all the way to the maximum of $40,000. How much does a kitchen remodel cost?. You want a general idea of the cost before meeting with designers, contractors, and retailers, and these professionals can't calculate the cost of every possible combination.
The cost of remodeling a kitchen can vary widely depending on the size and scope of your project, with the national average coming in around $17,000 and most homeowners spending between $12,000 and $19,000. This guide can help estimate your costs and give you a starting point for various upgrades and services. How much does a kitchen remodel cost?. You want a general idea of the cost before meeting with designers, contractors, and retailers, and these professionals can't calculate the cost of every possible combination.
The average cost of having new countertops installed is $3,401, but it is important to realize how much this can vary from project to project. The price will be dependent on the size of your kitchen, the simplicity of the layout and the materials used. How much does a kitchen remodel cost?. You want a general idea of the cost before meeting with designers, contractors, and retailers, and these professionals can't calculate the cost of every possible combination.
For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $2.52 - $3.68 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Kitchen Cabinet Refinishing-Average Cost Per Square Foot. Expect to pay in the high end of the estimated price range for a licensed, bonded and insured contractor and for complex or rush projects. Hire carefully, only after verifying prior work quality.
Refinishing vs. Replacing. The average cost of a complete cabinet installation is just over $5,600. That's a big investment for just one part of a kitchen remodel. On the other hand, refinishing falls somewhere in the $400-$900 range depending on location. This is much more manageable to the homeowner on a budget
Kitchen cabinet refinishing costs will depend on the size of your kitchen and the materials you plan to use. If you’re painting your kitchen cabinets, oil-based paints usually create a more durable, longer wearing finish, but they often require primers and are more expensive than water-based paints. 
1 Refacing the cabinets in a typical kitchen starts around $1,000-$3,000 for rigid thermofoil (RTF) or plastic laminate and $2,500-$6,000 for real wood veneer (about 1/4-inch think), although costs can rise to $7,000-$9,000 or more for a large project with high-quality wood veneer. 
So, whether you're building a new kitchen, renovating an existing kitchen or making a few updates, you're making a sound decision. The average cost for a kitchen renovation depends on many factors -- including the size of the kitchen, the quality of the materials and the complexity of the job. 1 Keep in mind that labor will take up 20% to 35% of the budget. 2  20% of your budget needs to be set aside for unexpected costs. 3  Prioritize what you want done during the remodel, in case the funds run out.