Apostrophe. Definition: Rhetorical device, not the punctuation. Occurs when a speaker (this device is used often in theater but rarely in literature) breaks off and directs their speech to a person not present (rare), or more commonly an inanimate object or an idea. Most often used as a way to capture extreme emotion; an outburst. Definition A rhetorical term for the repetition of a word or phrase at regular intervals. Repetition of the same word or clause after intervening matter. More strictly, repetition at the end of a line, phrase, or clause of the word or words that occurred at the beginning of the same line, phrase, or clause.
epiplexis-a rhetorical device in which the speaker reproaches the audience in order to incite or convince them. hendiadys-use of two conjoined nouns instead of a noun and modifier. hypallage-reversal of the syntactic relation of two words (as in `her beauty's face'). litotes, meiosis-understatement for rhetorical effect (especially when expressing an affirmative by negating its contrary); saying `I was not a little upset' when you mean `I was very upset' is an example of litotes.
a rhetorical device in which the usual word order of a phrase or sentence is reversed. annomination. adnomination. antanaclasis. a rhetorical device in which the same word is repeated but with a different sense each time. See also grammar. 1. a teacher of rhetoric. 2. one skilled in the art of rhetoric. 3. a speaker who overuses rhetorical devices, especially a bombastic or overelaborate orator. sardonicism. a style of speaking or writing characterized by bitter, contemptuous, or scornful derision.
Noun. 1. rhetorical device-a use of language that creates a literary effect (but often without regard for literal significance). rhetoric-study of the technique and rules for using language effectively (especially in public speaking). device-something in an artistic work designed to achieve a particular effect. litotes, meiosis-understatement for rhetorical effect (especially when expressing an affirmative by negating its contrary); saying `I was not a little upset' when you mean `I was very upset' is an example of litotes.
homoeoptoton. a rhetorical device consisting of the repetition of the same case endings, inflections, etc., at the end of phrases. homoeoteleuton. a device of rhetoric in which like-sounding words, syllables, or phrases are used at the end of succeeding sentences or lines. 1. a teacher of rhetoric. 2. one skilled in the art of rhetoric. 3. a speaker who overuses rhetorical devices, especially a bombastic or overelaborate orator. sardonicism. a style of speaking or writing characterized by bitter, contemptuous, or scornful derision.
Rhetorical Devices in Writing. Here are examples of rhetorical devices with a definition and an example: 1  Alliteration-the recurrence of initial consonant sounds-rubber baby buggy bumpers. 2  Allusion-a reference to an event, literary work or person-I can’t do that because I am not Superman. 1 Alliteration-the recurrence of initial consonant sounds-rubber baby buggy bumpers. 2  Allusion-a reference to an event, literary work or person-I can’t do that because I am not Superman. 3  Amplification-repeats a word or expression for emphasis-Love, real love, takes time.
Full Definition of RHETORICAL. 1. a: of, relating to, or concerned with rhetoric. 2. a: given to rhetoric: grandiloquent b: verbal. — rhe·tor·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See rhetorical defined for English-language learners. See rhetorical defined for kids. 
Rhetoric Definition. Rhetoric is a technique of using language effectively and persuasively in spoken or written form. It is an art of discourse, which studies and employs various methods to convince, influence or please an audience. Difference between Rhetorical Device and Figures of Speech. Rhetorical figures or devices are employed to achieve particular emphasis and effect. Rhetorical devices, however, are different from “figures of speech”. Wherever and whenever a figure of speech is used in written texts and speech, it alters meanings of words.