Renewable Energy Definition. Wind power is a form of renewable energy. The definition of renewable energy is much debated since the terms and definitions people choose have huge impacts on policy and regulations. People have been using renewable energy of one sort or another for hundreds of years.
Renewable hydroelectric energy provides 16.3% of the worlds electricity. When hydroelectric is combined with other renewables such as wind, geothermal, solar, biomass and waste: together they make the renewables total, 21.7% of electricity generation worldwide as of 2013. Renewable energy resources exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries.
Renewable energy flows involve natural phenomena such as sunlight, wind, tides, plant growth, and geothermal heat, as the International Energy Agency explains: Renewable energy is derived from natural processes that are replenished constantly. Renewable energy resources exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries.
Renewable energy is generally defined as energy that comes from resources which are naturally replenished on a human timescale, such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves, and geothermal heat. Renewable energy resources exist over wide geographical areas, in contrast to other energy sources, which are concentrated in a limited number of countries.
Renewable energy is energy generated from natural resources—such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides and geothermal heat—which are renewable (naturally replenished). Renewable energy technologies range from solar power, wind power, hydroelectricity/micro hydro, biomass and biofuels for transportation. Biomass, is a renewable organic matter, and can include biological material derived from living, or recently living organisms, such as wood, waste, and alcohol fuels. Wood energy is derived both from harvested wood as a fuel and from wood waste products.
Part of the Business terms glossary: Renewable energy is any energy source that is naturally replenished, like that derived from solar, wind, geothermal or hydroelectric action. Energy produced from the refining of biomass is also often classified as renewable. 
Definition of Renewable Energy. There is much debate about how to define and distinguish renewable energy from non-renewable, and the terms and definitions chosen can have huge impacts on policy and regulatory efforts aiming to promote clean energy resources. Renewable energy does not include energy resources derived from fossil fuels, waste products from fossil sources, or waste products from inorganic sources..
Definition. Derived from resources that are naturally regenerative or are practically inexhaustible, such as biomass, heat (geothermal, solar, thermal gradient), moving water (hydro, tidal, and wave power), and wind energy. Municipal sold waste may also be considered a source of renewable (thermal) energy.