Salmonella is a bacteria that makes people sick. It was discovered by an American scientist named Dr. Salmon, and has been known to cause illness for over 125 years. Most people infected with Salmonella develop diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps between 12 and 72 hours after infection. The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days, and most individuals recover without treatment. There are many different kinds of Salmonella bacteria. Salmonella serotype Typhimurium [PDF - 15 pages] and Salmonella serotype Enteritidis [PDF - 15 pages] are the most common in the United States. Salmonella infections are more common in the summer than winter.
Children are at the highest risk for Salmonella infection. Children under the age of 5 [PDF - 36 pages] have higher rates of Salmonella infection than any other age group. Young children, older adults, and people with weakened immune systems are the most likely to have severe infections. There are many different kinds of Salmonella bacteria. Salmonella serotype Typhimurium [PDF - 15 pages] and Salmonella serotype Enteritidis [PDF - 15 pages] are the most common in the United States. Salmonella infections are more common in the summer than winter.
Salmonella infection, or salmonellosis, is a bacterial disease of the intestinal tract. Salmonella is a group of bacteria that cause typhoid fever, food poisoning, gastroenteritis, enteric fever and other illnesses. People become infected mostly through contaminated water or foods, especially meat, poultry and eggs. Salmonella is a gram-negative, rod-shaped bacilli that can cause diarrheal illness in humans. Put simply-Salmonella is a bacterium shaped like a rod with a cell wall composed of peptidoglycan. Salmonella-induced Gastroenteritis signs and symptoms: Salmonella-induced Typhoid fever signs and symptoms: People who live in developed countries most commonly become infected when they travel abroad. The incubation period-time between becoming infected and symptoms appearing-is usually between 7 to 14 days.
Definition. Salmonella infection is a common bacterial disease that affects the intestinal tract. Salmonella bacteria typically live in animal and human intestines and are shed through feces. Humans become infected most frequently through contaminated water or food. Typically, people with salmonella infection have no symptoms. Others develop diarrhea, fever and abdominal cramps within eight to 72 hours.
Salmonella is bacteria that can cause a gastrointestinal infection known as salmonellosis. Usually salmonellosis is referred to as salmonella.. This infection can occur in humans and animals. Most people infected with salmonella are ill for four to seven days. The person may be ill enough to require hospitalization. Symptoms of salmonella usually start from 12 to 72 hours after the bacteria has been swallowed. The symptoms include abdominal cramps, headache, fever, and severe watery diarrhea. Nausea and vomiting may also occur. People infected with salmonella can have milder or no symptoms
Salmonellosis is an infection caused by Salmonella bacteria. Most people infected with Salmonella develop diarrhea, fever, vomiting, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. 
Foods that are most commonly infected are: Out of the thousands of types of Salmonella bacteria, only about twelve make people ill, usually with gastroenteritis. A smaller number cause typhoid fever, which can be a very serious and potentially fatal disease, especially in developing countries. Salmonella-induced Gastroenteritis signs and symptoms: Salmonella-induced Typhoid fever signs and symptoms: People who live in developed countries most commonly become infected when they travel abroad. The incubation period-time between becoming infected and symptoms appearing-is usually between 7 to 14 days.
Salmonella infection is usually caused by eating raw or undercooked meat, poultry, eggs or egg products. The incubation period ranges from several hours to two days. Most salmonella infections can be classified as gastroenteritis. Possible signs and symptoms include: 1  Nausea. 2  Vomiting. 3  Abdominal cramps. 4  Diarrhea. 5  Fever. 6  Chills. 