An Australian workplace agreement (AWA) was a formalized individual agreement negotiated by the employer and employee. Employers could offer a take it or leave it. AWA as a condition of employment. Agreements were for a maximum of five years; approved, promoted and registered by the Workplace Authority; operate to the exclusion of any award; and prohibit industrial action regarding details in the agreement for the life of the agreement.
A certified agreement will also cover employees who commence employment after the agreement is made. A certified agreement can 'stand alone' by setting out all conditions and provisions of employment thereby effectively replacing the relevant award or it can operate in conjunction with the relevant award. All agreements certified as of March 2006, may be viewed by clicking on the title of the Agreement to download the full certified agreement with certificate from either the Public Sector Agreements link or the Local Government Agreements link.
An agreement must provide for an employee to be better off overall when conditions in the agreement are compared to the relevant award. Enterprise agreements are collective agreements made at an enterprise level between employers and employees about terms and conditions of employment. The Fair Work Commission can help with the process of making enterprise agreements, as well as assess and approve agreements.
Purpose of a Collective Agreement. A Collective Agreement (CA) is an agreement made between an employer and a trade union of employees on the terms and conditions of employment for the employees. The CA specifies the categories of employees covered, the duration of the agreement and the grievance procedure. A CA filed with the IAC is certified once the Court ascertains that the CA complies with the Industrial Relations Act and other labour laws such as the Employment Act; meets the requirements for a legally binding document and sets out adequately the terms of the agreement between the parties.
'Certified agreement' is a term used under previous workplace relations legislation, eg Industrial Relations Act 1983; Workplace Relations Act 1996. 
Agreements. Enterprise agreements and other r egistered agreements set out minimum employment conditions and can apply to: 1  one business. 2  a group of businesses, or. 3  an individual employee (but these types of agreements can’t be made anymore)
A certified agreement is a written collective employment agreement that sets out the wages and working conditions for a particular group of employees. The group of employees may be the whole of a government department or local government council that is somehow separate and distinct. All agreements certified as of March 2006, may be viewed by clicking on the title of the Agreement to download the full certified agreement with certificate from either the Public Sector Agreements link or the Local Government Agreements link.
Identification. An industrial agreement is often an accord reached between employers in a certain industry, their employees or employee representatives and, in some cases, the government. This term is used more often in Europe, Australia and other contexts than it is in the United States. 
Enterprise bargaining is wage and working conditions being negotiated at the level of the individual organizations, usually in Australia. Once established, they are legally binding on employers and employees. An Enterprise Bargaining Agreement (EBA) consists of a collective industrial agreement between either an employer and a trade union acting on behalf of employees or an employer and employees acting for themselves. Enterprise Bargaining Agreements were first introduced in Australia under the Prices and Incomes Accord in 1991 (Mark VII). They later became the centrepiece of the Australian industrial relations system when the Accord was next revised in 1993 (Mark VIII).
There are industrial agreements covering all employees employed by the Department. To access the relevant agreement, select one of the employment categories below. 