Human mitochondrial DNA has been estimated to have mutation rates of ~3× or ~2.7×10 −5 per base per 20 year generation (depending on the method of estimation); these rates are considered to be significantly higher than rates of human genomic mutation at ~2.5×10 −8 per base per generation. The highest per base pair per generation mutation rates are found in viruses, which can have either RNA or DNA genomes. DNA viruses have mutation rates between 10 −6 to 10 −8 mutations per base per generation, and RNA viruses have mutation rates between 10 −3 to 10 −5
The rate and pattern of sequence substitutions in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region (CR) is of central importance to studies of human evolution and to forensic identity testing. Here, we report a direct measurement of the intergenerational substitution rate in the human CR. Along this line, some work has recently been done to measure explictly the rate of substitution in mitochondrial DNA. The reference is Parsons, Thomas J., et al., A high observed substitution rate in the human mitochondrial DNA control region, Nature Genetics vol. 15, April 1997, pp. 363-367. The summary follows:
However, mitochondrial DNA is not the same between all populations and this is due to lack of repair mechanisms and proofreading capabilities which makes it susceptible to base substitutions, leading to high mutation rates. The mutation rates of mitochondrial DNA are 10 times higher than in nuclear DNA. 
The mutation spectrum of an organism is the rate at which different mutations occur at different sites. Typically two sites are considered, each of which may have three mutations, resulting in six total rates for most mutation spectra. The two sites are the two correct pairs possible in DNA: A:T pairs and C:G pairs; The highest per base pair per generation mutation rates are found in viruses, which can have either RNA or DNA genomes. DNA viruses have mutation rates between 10 −6 to 10 −8 mutations per base per generation, and RNA viruses have mutation rates between 10 −3 to 10 −5 per base per generation.
Description: The DNA found in mitochondria, the energy-producing organelles of cells, is often analyzed to trace evolutionary pathways. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has a high substitution or mutation rate, compared with other sites in our genome. mtDNA is transmitted only from mother to child, and can be inherited intact over thousands of generations. 
From royal lineages, for example, one could find two individuals whose most recent common maternal ancestor was, say, 1000 years ago. One could then measure the differences in the mitochondrial DNA of these individuals to bound its mutation rate. Along this line, some work has recently been done to measure explictly the rate of substitution in mitochondrial DNA. The reference is Parsons, Thomas J., et al., A high observed substitution rate in the human mitochondrial DNA control region, Nature Genetics vol. 15, April 1997, pp. 363-367. The summary follows:
The mutation rate in mtDNA is ten times higher than in nuclear DNA because mtDNA are subject to damage from reactive oxygen molecules released as a byproduct during OXPHOS. In addition, the mtDNA also lacks the DNA repair mechanisms found in the nucleus. 
Mitochondria carry their own separate DNA (mtDNA) that is independent of the nuclear DNA of the same cell. Human mtDNA is composed of 37 genes totaling about 16,000 base pairs. This mtDNA also mutates at a much faster rate than nuclear DNA (nucDNA) does. Since there were no DNA changes due to genetic recombination events (ie: with paternal DNA-now known to be a wrong assumption), they assumed that all changes in the mtDNA were the result of mutations over time and that these mutations occurred at a constant rate.
In genetics, the mutation rate is a measure of the rate at which various types of mutations occur over time. Mutation rates are typically given for a specific class of mutation, for instance point mutations, small or large scale insertions or deletions. The highest per base pair per generation mutation rates are found in viruses, which can have either RNA or DNA genomes. DNA viruses have mutation rates between 10 −6 to 10 −8 mutations per base per generation, and RNA viruses have mutation rates between 10 −3 to 10 −5 per base per generation.