A minimum viable product has just those core features that allow the product to be deployed, and no more. The Business Model Canvas is used to map out the major components and activities for a company starting out. The Minimum Viable Product can be designed by using selected components of the Business Model Canvas :
A product may have many great features but building features doesn't help a product in search of a problem. The first version of a product is often referred to as a Minimum Viable Product, or in other words, a product that has just the core features that make the product work. The term Minimum Viable Product was popularized when it was referenced as part of the Lean Startup methodology. A Minimum Viable Product has just those core features that allow the product to be deployed, and no more. It is a strategy targeted at avoiding building products that customers do not want, that seeks to maximize the information learned about the customer per dollar spent. - Wikipedia.
Below you'll find the video of my remarks as well as the full slides embedded below. But I wanted to say a few words first. First, a definition: the minimum viable product is that version of a new product which allows a team to collect the maximum amount of validated learning about customers with the least effort. Some caveats right off the bat. MVP, despite the name, is not about creating minimal products. 
Summary. The minimum viable product (MVP) is a powerful concept that allows you to test your ideas. It is not to be confused with the minimal marketable product (MMP), the product with the smallest feature set that still addresses the user needs and creates the right user experience.
Eric Ries and I recently sat down to talk about minimum viable products: the product with just the necessary features to get money and feedback from early adopters. The minimum viable product (MVP) is often an ad on Google. Or a PowerPoint slide. Or a dialog box. Eric: When you already have customers you need to have some way to experiment with making them an offer. In a lot of cases the minimum viable product really is just that offer. You can crisply articulate to customers what they’re going to get and how much they’re going to pay for it.
In product development, the minimum viable product (MVP) is the product with the highest return on investment versus risk. The term was coined and defined by Frank Robinson, and popularized by Steve Blank, and Eric Ries. The Business Model Canvas is used to map out the major components and activities for a company starting out. The Minimum Viable Product can be designed by using selected components of the Business Model Canvas :
So, the minimum viable product is that product which has just those features (and no more) that allows you to ship a product that resonates with early adopters; some of whom will pay you money or give you feedback. The idea of minimum viable product is useful because you can basically say: our vision is to build a product that solves this core problem for customers and we think that for the people who are early adopters for this kind of solution, they will be the most forgiving.
The minimum viable product is that version of a new product which allows a team to collect the maximum amount of validated learning about customers with the least effort. . The definition's use of the words maximum and minimum means it is decidedly not formulaic. The Business Model Canvas is used to map out the major components and activities for a company starting out. The Minimum Viable Product can be designed by using selected components of the Business Model Canvas :
A minimum viable product is therefore not a product. It is a minimum viable go to market step. You don’t want to waste your time and money building a product no one will want to use or pay for. So, first get out of the building and talk to your customers. But there’s a world of difference between talk and action. What your customers say, and what they eventually do.