(physics and chemistry) The smallest unit of an element or compound, made up of two or more atoms held together by strong chemical bond. Supplement. In physics and chemistry, a molecule is an electrically neutral, group of atoms that can exist alone in free state while its characteristic properties are retained. 
mol•e•cule. 1. the smallest physical unit of an element or compound, consisting of one or more like atoms in an element and two or more different atoms in a compound. 2. a quantity of a substance, the weight of which is numerically equal to the molecular weight; gram molecule. 3. any very small partic
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: A molecule is the smallest particle in a chemical element or compound that has the chemical properties of that element or compound. Molecules are made up of atom s that are held together by chemical bonds. The element helium is a one-atom molecule. Some molecules consist of two atoms of the same element. For example, O 2 is the oxygen molecule most commonly found in the earth's atmosphere; it has two atoms of oxygen.
Definition. Molecules consist of atoms that are made up of electrons, protons, and neutrons. The electrons are usually distributed equally throughout the molecule's outer shell-called the orbit. However, when the electrons do not have an equal distribution of electrons in the orbit you have a polar molecule. 
A molecule may be homonuclear, that is, it consists of atoms of a single chemical element, as with oxygen (O 2); or it may be heteronuclear, a chemical compound composed of more than one element, as with water (H 2 O). In the kinetic theory of gases, the term molecule is often used for any gaseous particle regardless of its composition. According to this definition, noble gas atoms are considered molecules despite being composed of a single non-bonded atom.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Molecule Definition: a molecule refers to two or more atoms which have chemically combined to form a single species. Examples: Examples of molecules include water H 2 O, oxygen, gas, O 2
Full Definition of MOLECULE. 1. : the smallest particle of a substance that retains all the properties of the substance and is composed of one or more atoms. 2. : a tiny bit: particle. See molecule defined for English-language learners. See molecule defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : the smallest possible amount of a particular substance that has all the characteristics of that substance. : a very small amount of something.
mol•e•cule. 1. the smallest physical unit of an element or compound, consisting of one or more like atoms in an element and two or more different atoms in a compound. 2. a quantity of a substance, the weight of which is numerically equal to the molecular weight; gram molecule. 3. any very small particle. molecule. n. 1. (Chemistry) the simplest unit of a chemical compound that can exist, consisting of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds. 2. a
noun. A model of a water molecule. A model of a water molecule. The definition of a molecule is the smallest amount of something, particularly of a chemical substance, that can exist on its own. An example of a molecule are two atoms of hydroge