Around and round you're turning me. I say to thee respectfully. I said a upside down you're turning me. You're giving love instinctively. Around and round you're turning me. I say to thee respectfully. Upside down you're turning me. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics.
We'll sing and dance to Mother Nature's songs. This world keeps spinning and there's no time to waste. Well it all keeps spinning spinning round and round and. Upside down. Who's to say what's impossible and can't be found. I don't want this feeling to go away. Please don't go away. Please don't go away. Please don't go away. Is this how it's supposed to be. Is this how it's supposed to be. 
Just tonight, I want you to stay. [Chorus]. You're turning me on, you turn me around. You turn my whole world upside down. You're turning me on, you turn me around. You turn my whole world upside down. [Verse 2]. Every time I hurt you, well it's hurting me too. Don't know if I could really stay here tonight. You're turning me on, you turn me around. You turn my whole world upside down. You're turning me on, you turn me around. You turn my whole world upside down. [Hook]. Oh, you know, you turn me upside down. You know, you turn me upside down. [Chorus]. You're turning me on, you turn me around.
And round and round. Upside down. Boy, you turn me. Inside out. And round and round. Upside down you're turning me. You're giving love instinctively. Around and round you're turning me. I see to thee respectfully. Upside down you're turning me. You're giving love instinctively. Around and round you're turning me. I see to thee respectfully. I said a upside down you're turning me. You're giving love instinctively. Around and round you're turning me. Songwriters. Upside Down is track #2 on the album Life & Love: The Very Best Of Diana Ross. It was written by Rodgers, Nile / Edwards, Bernard. Upside Down is track #2 on the album Life & Love: The Very Best Of Diana Ross. It was written by Rodgers, Nile / Edwards, Bernard.
Upside down. Who's to say what's impossible and can't be found. I don't want this feeling to go away. Please don't go away. Please don't go away. Please don't go away. Is this how it's supposed to be. Is this how it's supposed to be. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
Upside Down  is a song by American singer Diana Ross. The disco song was written and produced by Chic members Nile Rodgers and Bernard Edwards. It was released on June 25, 1980, as the lead single from her tenth studio album, Diana (1980), and hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 on September 6, 1980. It also hit number one on the Billboard Disco/Dance and Soul charts. The song was written by Bernard Edwards and Nile Rodgers (of the band Chic). In a 2011 interview, Nile Rodgers said Diana Ross was the first big star we ever worked with and we took it very seriously..
Bonzo Goes to Bitburg  is a song by American punk rock band the Ramones. Initially issued as a single in the UK by Beggars Banquet Records in 1985, it did not receive an American single release. Bonzo Goes to Bitburg was issued in Great Britain as a 45 rpm 12 by Beggars Banquet Records. The single's first B-side, Go Home Ann, by Dee Dee and Mickey Leigh, was produced by Ed Stasium and mixed by Motoerhead motörhead lead Singer. lemmy