NADPH is reduced NADP (Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate) and is used as a reducing agent. NADPH oxidises to form NADP. In plants, NADP is reduced in the last step of the electron chain of the light reactions of photosynthesis. The NADPH produced is then used as a reducing agent in the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis. NADPH is used in catabolic processes. NADPH is used in catabolic and anabolic reactions within the cell. Reduction and oxidation reactions occur and NADPH is used to dispose of excess reducing equivalents such as … electrons. A major source of NADPH is the pentose phosphate pathway. The action of NADPH aids against ROS.
The electrons from the electron transport chain combine with these H+ ions and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate ion s (NADP+) to form adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and a reduced unit of NADP+, called ~ (NADP plus an electron, or H). NADPH provides the reducing equivalents for biosynthetic reactions and for oxidation-reduction involved in protection against the toxicity of ROS (re active oxygen species). NADPH is also used for anabolic pathways, such as fatty acid synthesis, cholesterol synthesis and fatty acid chain elongation.
NADPH is primarily produced in the oxidative part of the pentose phosphate pathway. NADPH is used in a) anabolic syntheses to produce cholesterol, fatty acids, transmittor substances and nucleotides. b) detoxifying processes as an antioxidant. NADPH is found in the cytosol and stroma (chloroplast) of eukaryotes. NADH is more ubiquitous, but mostly found in bacteria and in mitichondria, possibly evidence for the endosymbosis of bacteria in eukaryotes. Neither can pass easily through a membrane.
NADPH. nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (reduced). NARES ... NADPH Reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate. NaF Sodium Fluoride. Naegleria A genus of amoeba s much used to study the genetics of undulipodium development; Naegleria fowleri is the causative agent of amoebic meningoencephalitis. NADPH provides the reducing equivalents for biosynthetic reactions and for oxidation-reduction involved in protection against the toxicity of ROS (re active oxygen species). NADPH is also used for anabolic pathways, such as fatty acid synthesis, cholesterol synthesis and fatty acid chain elongation.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Hey :) NADPH stands for Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide Phosphate: Photosynthesis: In chloroplasts, NADP+ is reduced by ferredoxin-NADP reductase in the last step of the electron chain of the light reactions of photosynthesis. 
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, abbreviated NADP+ or, in older notation, TPN (triphosphopyridine nucleotide), is a cofactor used in anabolic reactions, such as lipid and nucleic acid synthesis, which require NADPH as a reducing agent. In photosynthetic organisms, NADPH is produced by ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase in the last step of the electron chain of the light reactions of photosynthesis. It is used as reducing power for the biosynthetic reactions in the Calvin cycle to assimilate carbon dioxide.
Answers. Best Answer: Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADP) A phosphorylated derivative of NAD which functions as a coenzyme and is reduced to NADPH. In chloroplasts, NADP is reduced by ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase in last step of the electron chain of the light reactions of photosynthesis. The NADPH produced is then used as reducing power for the biosynthetic reactions in the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis.
NADPH is the source of electrons for glucose biosynthesis. C. ATP is the energy source for glucose biosynthesis. ~ , an electron acceptor, provides reducing power via energized electrons to the Calvin cycle. Water is split in the process, and O2 is released as a by-product. NADPH provides the reducing equivalents for biosynthetic reactions and for oxidation-reduction involved in protection against the toxicity of ROS (re active oxygen species). NADPH is also used for anabolic pathways, such as fatty acid synthesis, cholesterol synthesis and fatty acid chain elongation.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate. NADP is used in anabolic reactions, such as fatty acid and nucleic acid synthesis, which require NADPH as a reducing agent. In chloroplasts, NADP is an oxidizing agent important in the preliminary reactions of photosynthesis. The NADPH produced by photosynthesis is then used as reducing power for the biosynthetic reactions in the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis. Powered by phpBB © phpBB Group. phpBB Mobile / SEO by Artodia.