Levaquin ® (levofloxacin) is prescribed for preventing infection after exposure to inhaled anthrax in adults and children. It is also approved to prevent and treat plague in adults and children. It is also used for treating various types of infections in adults, including: 1  Sinus infections. 2  Bronchitis. This means that some bacteria may be susceptible to Levaquin in certain parts of the country but not in others. Levaquin is completely ineffective for treating viral illnesses such as the common cold or the flu.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Levofloxacin is an antibiotic that is used for treating bacterial infections. Many common infections in humans are caused by bacteria. Bacteria can grow and multiply, infecting different parts of the body. Drugs that control and eradicate these bacteria are called antibiotics. 
Levofloxacin is in a group of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones (flor-o-KWIN-o-lones). Levofloxacin fights bacteria in the body. Levofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections of the skin, sinuses, kidneys, bladder, or prostate. Levofloxacin is also used to treat bacterial infections that cause bronchitis or pneumonia, and to treat people who have been exposed to anthrax or plague. Levofloxacin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Levaquin ® (levofloxacin) is a prescription antibiotic approved to treat a variety of different infections. 
Levofloxacin is used alone or in combination with other antibacterial drugs to treat certain bacterial infections including pneumonia, urinary tract infections, and abdominal infections. Levofloxacin is used to treat infections including: respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, endocarditis, meningitis, pelvic inflammatory disease, traveler's diarrhea, tuberculosis and plague.
Levaquin is the brand name for levofloxacin, a prescription drug used to treat a variety of bacterial infections, such as: 1  Pneumonia. 2  Acute bacterial sinusitis. 3  Chronic bronchitis worsened by bacterial infections. 4  Skin infections. 5  Chronic prostate gland infection. 6  Urinary tract infection. 7  Acute kidney infection. 
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Levaquin sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Before taking levofloxacin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other quinolone antibiotics (such as ciprofloxacin, moxifloxacin, ofloxacin); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Fluoroquinolones (Cipro, Levaquin, Avelox) are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States, but they carry severe side effects that can harm your central nervous system, musculoskeletal, visual and renal systems, sometimes simultaneously. By Dr. Mercola Fluoroquinolones are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States. Among the most well known is Cipro (made by Bayer), which became a household name during the anthrax scare that occurred shortly after 9/11. Levaquin is a close second.
1 Fluoroquinolones (Cipro, Levaquin, Avelox) are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States, but they carry severe side effects that can harm your central nervous system, musculoskeletal, visual and renal systems, sometimes simultaneously. By Dr. Mercola Fluoroquinolones are among the most commonly prescribed class of antibiotics in the United States. Among the most well known is Cipro (made by Bayer), which became a household name during the anthrax scare that occurred shortly after 9/11. Levaquin is a close second.
Levofloxacin (Levaquin ®) is a prescription antibiotic approved to treat a variety of different infections. It is also approved to prevent infection after exposure to inhaled anthrax and to prevent or treat plague. 