Incorrect:Jeff Jefferson did NOT write Leaving on a Jet Plane John Denver wrote Leaving on a Jet Plane in 1967. The Chad Mitchell Trio recorded it in 1967, as did Spanky … & Our Gang and Peter, Paul and Mary (their biggest and final hit). Cheers, Jeff   I believe its Jeff Jefferson. 3 people found this useful. 
Song Review by Matthew Greenwald. A huge hit for Peter, Paul & Mary in 1967, Leaving on a Jet Plane was written by a very young John Denver, who was then a member of the Chad Mitchell Trio before beginning his illustrious solo career in the 1970s. 
Leaving on a Jet Plane  is a song written by John Denver in 1966 and most famously recorded by Peter, Paul and Mary. The original title of the song was Babe, I Hate to Go but Denver's then producer Milt Okun convinced him to change the title. 1 The band's single  Run 2  (1989) was the subject of a lawsuit brought by John Denver, who argued that its wordless guitar break was based on his Leaving on a Jet Plane. 2  An out-of-court settlement ensured that the song would never be re-released in its original form.
Singer/songwriter John Denver, who wrote Leaving on a Jet Plane, Thank God I'm a Country Boy and many other country-pop hits, died Sunday at the age of 53 when the plane he was flying went down in Monterey Bay. 
1 The song prompted litigation involving the British group New Order. 2  The band's single  Run 2  (1989) was the subject of a lawsuit brought by John Denver, who argued that its wordless guitar break was based on his Leaving on a Jet Plane. 1 The band's single  Run 2  (1989) was the subject of a lawsuit brought by John Denver, who argued that its wordless guitar break was based on his Leaving on a Jet Plane. 2  An out-of-court settlement ensured that the song would never be re-released in its original form.
This was written by a very young John Denver, who was then a member of the Chad Mitchell Trio before beginning his solo career in the 1970s. Denver wrote this in 1967 during a layover at Washington airport, Not so much from feeling that way for someone, but from the longing of having someone to love.. The Chad Mitchell Trio recorded the song that year, as did Spanky & Our Gang and Peter, Paul and Mary. The 1969 hit version by Peter, Paul and Mary came at a great time for Denver, who had just disbanded the Chad Mitchell Trio.
Leaving On A Jet Plane is track #4 on the album Around the Campfire. It was written by John Denver. Leaving On A Jet Plane is track #4 on the album Around the Campfire. It was written by John Denver. 
With John Denver it only took five. The fifth song that he wrote was “Leaving on a Jet Plane,” a tune that became a number one hit for Peter, Paul and Mary in 1969 and launched the career of one of popular music’s most highly acclaimed songwriters. 
Confidence votes 3. Incorrect:Jeff Jefferson did NOT write Leaving on a Jet Plane. John Denver wrote Leaving on a Jet Plane in 1967. The Chad Mitchell Trio recorded it in 1967, as did Spanky & Our Gang and Peter, Paul and Mary (their biggest and final hit). Cheers, Jeff. I believe its Jeff Jefferson
+78 other releases. read more. Leaving on a Jet Plane is a song written by John Denver in 1967 and recorded by the Mitchell Trio that year. The original title of the song was Oh Babe I Hate To Go but Denver's then producer, Milt Okun, convinced him to change the title. Denver wrote the song after his flight was delayed. John Denver's version of his song, Leaving on a Jet Plane, was included on his 1969 debut solo album, Rhymes and Reasons.