The baby name Jaime is a boy name. The name Jaime comes from the Scottish, Scotland origin. In English the meaning of the name Jaime is: Variant of Jacob Supplanter.Information:Name: JaimeMeaning of name: Variant of ... The name Jacobo is a boy name. The name Jacobo comes from Spanish, Spain origin. The meaning of the name Jacobo is: Supplanter.About:Name: JacoboName meaning: Supplanter.Gender: Male / Masculine / Boy / BoysOrigin: ...
Posted in Names Meanings. fbnames.com – Here are the list of baby names that mean supplanter or related meanings. There are 16 names and their meanings available in our site fbnames.com. These names are Biblical, Armenian, Latin, French, Hawaiian, Irish, and Latin of origins. If you love the. 
There are 7 Supplanter names for baby girls. Supplanter names are somewhat popular as baby girl names. The names' popularity increased from the 1900s up to the 1960s; before that, they were of modest use only. Their usage peaked in 1964 with 0.629% of baby girls being given Supplanter names. Within the top 1000 baby names then, there were 2 Supplanter name
The baby name Jacob is a boy name. The name Jacob comes from the Hebrew origin. In English the meaning of the name Jacob is: SupplanterInformation:Name: JacobMeaning of name: SupplanterGender: Male / Masculine / Boy / ... The name Jacobo is a boy name. The name Jacobo comes from Spanish, Spain origin. The meaning of the name Jacobo is: Supplanter.About:Name: JacoboName meaning: Supplanter.Gender: Male / Masculine / Boy / BoysOrigin: ...
The baby name Jacques is a boy name. The name Jacques comes from the French, France origin. In English the meaning of the name Jacques is: French form of Jacob Supplanter.Information:Name: JacquesMeaning of name: French ... Read more. The name Jacobo is a boy name. The name Jacobo comes from Spanish, Spain origin. The meaning of the name Jacobo is: Supplanter.About:Name: JacoboName meaning: Supplanter.Gender: Male / Masculine / Boy / BoysOrigin: ...
Meaning of James: James is an English variant of the Latin name Iacomus, which is a variant of the Biblical Greek name Iakobos, which is a variant of the Hebrew name Ya'aqov, meaning supplanter or held by the heel. close. James is an English variant of the Latin name Iacomus, which is a variant of the Biblical Greek name Iakobos, which is a variant of the Hebrew name Ya'aqov, meaning supplanter or held by the heel..
The Biblical baby name James is the Greek version of the Hebrew name Jacob and it's meaning is supplanter, or one who follows. James is pronounced jay-mes. James is the name of three men in the Bible. James the Greater (the Elder) was one of the twelve apostles. 
In the Old Testament, Jacob (later called Israel) is the son of Isaac and Rebecca and the father of the twelve founders of the twelve tribes of Israel. He was born holding his twin brother Esau 's heel, and his name is explained as meaning holder of the heel or supplanter. Other theories claim that it is in fact derived from a hypothetical name like יַעֲקֹבְאֵל (Ya'aqov'el) meaning may God protect. The English names Jacob and James derive from the same source, with James coming from Latin Iacomus, a later variant of Iacobus.
Origin and meaning of James. 4 5. The meaning of James is  Supplanter, held by the heel . Its origin is  English variant of the Latin name Iacomus . James is a form of Iacomus and is generally pronounced like  JAYMZ . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. James is an English variant of the Latin name Iacomus, which is a variant of the Biblical Greek name Iakobos, which is a variant of the Hebrew name Ya'aqov, meaning supplanter or held by the heel..