There is no defined acute retroviral syndrome since there are many different symptoms associated with acute HIV infection. After an incubation period of 1 to 3 weeks, about 50% of persons with acute HIV infection develop headaches, sore throat, fever, muscle pain, anorexia, rash, and/or diarrhea.
These symptoms can occur within days or weeks of the initial exposure to the virus during a period called primary or acute HIV infection. Many infections that are not HIV can cause similar symptoms, including mononucleosis, viral hepatitis, other sexual transmitted infections, and viral hepatitis.
The diagnosis of acute human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) syndrome requires a high index of suspicion and proper laboratory testing. Patients with the syndrome may have fever, fatigue, rash, pharyngitis or other symptoms.
Acute HIV infection is the period of time immediately following infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Some researchers use the term acute HIV infection to describe the period of time between when a person is first infected with HIV and when antibodies (proteins made by the immune system in response to infection) against the virus are produced by the body (usually 6 to 12 weeks) and can be detected by an HIV test.
Acute HIV infection (also known as seroconversion) is defined as the period between exposure to the virus and completion of the initial immune responses (when an antibody test becomes positive for HIV). After infection, HIV is able to replicate at an exponential rate using CD4 cells. See the image below.
As the immune system weakens, symptoms of acute HIV syndrome may appear. About 6 to 8 weeks after acquiring HIV infection, the body starts to defend itself by creating antibodies. The development of antibodies causes the amount of HIV virus to drop but the virus remains in your blood, and never completely goes away.
HIV is a virus spread through body fluids that affects specific cells of the immune system, called CD4 cells, or T cells. Over time, HIV can destroy so many of these cells that the body can’t fight off infections and disease. When this happens, HIV infection leads to AIDS.
HIV RNA test (viral load) is positive in patients with acute HIV infection. Lower-than-normal CD4 (white blood cell) count may be a sign of a suppressed immune system. The CD4 count usually improves 1 - 2 months after acute