The Khalsa (Punjabi: ਖ਼ਾਲਸਾ ; [xaːlsaː]) is the collective body of all initiated Sikhs represented by the five beloved-ones and can be called the Guru Panth, the embodiment of the Guru and the final temporal Guru/leader of the Sikhs. The word Khalsa translates to Sovereign/Free. Guru Gobind Singh is the Father of the Khalsa and Mata Sahib Kaur is the Mother. One important outcome of joining the Khalsa is the abolition of one's previous caste, nation, race, rituals, customs, religion, clan, Karma. The new member is the citizen of Anandpur Sahib and their birthplace is the Keshgarh Sahib.
Definition: Khalsa comes from an Arabic word Khalsah (khaal-saah) whose derivatives Khaalas, or Khalis translate to mean pure, and Khalaas, which translates to means free. In Sikhism, the Khalsa is considered to be the brotherhood of the pure and is an order of spiritual warriors or saint soldiers. Khalsa refers to the initiated Amritdhari and means pure, as in free, or liberated from adulteration of illusory worldly attachment: 1  Khalsa is a title of respect given to any initiate who has quaffed the immortalizing nectar Amrit when initiated into the Sikh faith.
The Khalsa is considered the pinnacle of Sikhism. The Khalsa is expected to perform no ritual and to believe in no superstition of any kind but only believe in one God who is the Master and the Protector of all, the only Creator and Destroyer. Guru Gobind Singh is the Father of the Khalsa and Mata Sahib Kaur is the Mother. One important outcome of joining the Khalsa is the abolition of one's previous caste, nation, race, rituals, customs, religion, clan, Karma. The new member is the citizen of Anandpur Sahib and their birthplace is the Keshgarh Sahib.
The Sikhs of the Khalsa can be identified with the given Five Ks and titles of Singh and Kaur which are gained after the disciple is being baptized into the order of the Khalsa. Guru Gobind Singh is the Father of the Khalsa and Mata Sahib Kaur is the Mother. One important outcome of joining the Khalsa is the abolition of one's previous caste, nation, race, rituals, customs, religion, clan, Karma. The new member is the citizen of Anandpur Sahib and their birthplace is the Keshgarh Sahib.
1 Khalsa is a title of respect given to any initiate who has quaffed the immortalizing nectar Amrit when initiated into the Sikh faith. Khalsa comes from an Arabic word Khalsah (khaal-saah) whose derivatives Khaalas, or Khalis translate to mean pure, and Khalaas, which translates to means free. In Sikhism, the Khalsa is considered to be the brotherhood of the pure and is an order of spiritual warriors or saint soldiers.
The word Khalsa means pure, Khalsa's are Sikhs which have undergone the sacred Amrit Ceremony initiated by the 10th Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh. The Khalsa order was initially created on Baisakhi Day March 30 1699, with Guru Gobind Singh baptizing 5 Sikhs and then in turn asking the five Khalsa's to baptize him. Long unshorn hair. A symbol of spirituality. The Kesh reminds a Khalsa to behave like the Guru's. It is a mark of dedication and group consciousness, showing a Khalsa's acceptance of God's will. Long hair have long been a common element of many spiritual prophets of various religions such as Jesus, Moses and Buddha
Khalsa is a spiritual clone of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, who is the father of Khalsa. Therefore, only a Gursikh, after accepting the Amrit, can hope to realize this ideal. However, taking Amrit is not an automatic conversion into a Khalsa. Amrit is just a beginning on this Path. 
• KHALSA (noun). The noun KHALSA has 1 sense: 1. the group of initiated Sikhs to which devout orthodox Sikhs are ritually admitted at puberty; founded by the tenth and last Guru in 1699. Familiarity information: KHALSA used as a noun is very rare. 
For the film see Khalsa (Film). Khalsa which means 'pure' is the name given by Guru Gobind Singh to all Sikhs who have been baptised or initiated by taking Amrit in a ceremony called Amrit Sanchar. The Beginning of the Khalsa. Although the word Khalsa existed before 1699, it is accepted that the Khalsa panth or Khalsa movement was started by the tenth Sikh Master. In the Sikh Holy book, called the Guru Granth Sahib, Bhagat Kabir uses the word Khalsa for the first time in Sikh sacred literature.