* Be prepared in case the dog gets queasy in the car. Cover the seats, bring towels, paper towels and baggies, give a back seat dog plenty of air, play soothing music, and do not play music too loudly. * If your pet is unaccustomed to car trips, take her on several short rides before attempting a long one. 
If your dog does not adjust to the car, then a road trip is not a good option. If you must bring your dog for a long car ride, ask your vet about possible anti-anxiety medications that can make the trip a bit easier on everyone. Otherwise, you should seek out other options. Remember, medications should be used sparingly. 
1 If your dog has a favorite towel or blanket be sure to bring it in order to comfort your pet. 2  Try to have your (non-toy*) puppy's first car rides be on an empty stomach by withholding food for 2-4 hours before the ride. 1 Put a bowl of cool water in the car for your dog and unbuckle him or her if in a dog seat. 2  Lock your car doors, and order your food to go. #* 3 Try to spend no more than five minutes away from the car if it is a warm day, as you don't want your dog to overheat.
Acclimate your pooch to the car in the weeks leading up to your trip. Collins recommends taking your dog on short car rides around town. It will help him get used to the doggy seat belt or carrier -- a must for safe travels -- and it will reveal any tendencies to get overly nervous or carsick. Ask your vet about motion sickness and sedation medications.
Feeding should be done AFTER activity. This way its like the dog had to bike to get his food. Dogs should always have to do some kind of work before they are rewarded, like sitting for a treat or waiting before leaving the house. If you must feed your dog before acitivity, I would wait 30 mins to an hour, depending on amount consumed and level of acivity after. Source(s): Lived with many active dogs. 
Motion sickness isn’t just a problem for humans; your dog may be just as uncomfortable in a moving car. We’ve nearly all felt it at least once before. The car starts to get going and all of a sudden you’re nauseous, hot, and dizzy. It can make car rides uncomfortable, sometimes even intolerable. Believe it or not, this same ailment can afflict your dog as well. For many of the same reasons, lots of dogs experience motion sickness. These steps could be effective in reducing the risk of motion sickness in your dog. Empty Stomach: Try not to give your dog food or water before taking a car ride. It’s less likely that your dog will get sick if there is nothing in his belly.
Make your first few trips in the car to somewhere fun for your dog. Don't go long distances right away, just get your dog used to the space. Take your dog to a park or a field so they associate a car ride with something good rather than just trips to the vet. 1 Put a bowl of cool water in the car for your dog and unbuckle him or her if in a dog seat. 2  Lock your car doors, and order your food to go. #* 3 Try to spend no more than five minutes away from the car if it is a warm day, as you don't want your dog to overheat.
Pack appropriate supplies for your dog when taking a long car trip. Make the dog's area comfortable by placing its bed or blankets down for padding. Also bring water, treats, the dog's collar and leash, some of your dog's favorite chew toys, and plastic bags for waste. 1 Put a bowl of cool water in the car for your dog and unbuckle him or her if in a dog seat. 2  Lock your car doors, and order your food to go. #* 3 Try to spend no more than five minutes away from the car if it is a warm day, as you don't want your dog to overheat.
1 Many dogs with a fear of car rides put on the breaks as soon as the car comes into view. 2  Instead of dragging your dog to the car, slowly lure him closer using lots of treats and praise. 3  For a mild car phobia, you may be able to get your dog to walk up to the car in a few short training sessions. 1 Start off with small trips. 2  Don't make your dog's first car ride a long road trip. 3  The first few times out of the driveway, you should probably drive no farther than around the block, giving your dog treats the whole way. 4  Gradually work your way up to going longer distances.
1 Don't make your dog's first car ride a long road trip. 2  The first few times out of the driveway, you should probably drive no farther than around the block, giving your dog treats the whole way. 3  Gradually work your way up to going longer distances. 4  Take your dog to fun destinations. 1 Start off with small trips. 2  Don't make your dog's first car ride a long road trip. 3  The first few times out of the driveway, you should probably drive no farther than around the block, giving your dog treats the whole way. 4