Shay Pressler is a level 45 human guild vendor located in the human capital of Stormwind City. He can be found in the Stormwind Visitor's Center, which is located beside the exit of the Valley of Heroes going into the Trade District. He is standing next to Adam Pressler, who is presumably his son. 
Comment by mikylin. If you can't see certain heirlooms (that you think should be showing) at your guild vendor, try changing the 'drop down' box, at the top of the vendors page, from 'Class name' to 'All' - for some reason the vendor wasn't showing 4 heirlooms for me and a friend until we changed the drop down to 'All'. fun story: at some point in the beta, the guild vendor was a female npc. though it does not show much difference in the english client, the change of this character's gender led to a funny missup in the french client.
15/11/2011 13:25Posted by Chrisskat1. Can a buy this gear Stormwind City, if so where and from who? You can buy it from the vendor next to the ones that sell PvP gear, and a vendor next to the ones who sell PvE gear (both in Old Town). Alternatively there is some BOA gear from the Guild Vendor in the Trade District. 2
Guild vendors are NPCs found in capital cities that sell items awarded by guild reputation and guild achievements. The items they sell cannot be seen until you meet certain reputation level and/or achievement requirements. 1  Shay Pressler. 2  in Stormwind City. 3  Nuri. 4  in The Exodar. 5  Steeg Haskell. 6  in Ironforge. 7  Velia Moonbow. 
Comment by Smef. fun story: at some point in the beta, the guild vendor was a female npc. though it does not show much difference in the english client, the change of this character's gender led to a funny missup in the french client. though looking quite manly, shay pressler is labelled as..
For the Horde, the guild vendor is in Orgrimmar. If you're facing Grommash Hold, the guild vendor will be along the left side of the building. Look for a large scorpid, and the guild vendor should be nearby. 14260. ...Well, if you're not in a guild, or if your guild has not unlocked anything to purchase, then you won't see anything. :\ The guild vendor sells special rewards that the guild has unlocked through achievements or by leveling up.
Map of Stormwind Vendors, Trainers and NPCs. June 30, 2012 by David Holloway. FULLY UPDATED FOR MISTS OF PANDARIA! How to use this map: find your Stormwind trainer, vendor or quartermaster in the table and match the number or letter listed in that cell to find it on the map. If you’re looking for the Stormwind portal to Pandaria: go to number 46 on the map below 😉. (Click on image for full size version)
Waiting for Dawn. 14260. Find the guild vendor in the main capital city for your faction, and talk to them like you would any vendor. For the Alliance, the guild vendor is in Stormwind, and is somewhere on the right as you enter the gates of the city into the Trade District. 14260. ...Well, if you're not in a guild, or if your guild has not unlocked anything to purchase, then you won't see anything. :\ The guild vendor sells special rewards that the guild has unlocked through achievements or by leveling up.
Waiting for Dawn. 14260. ...Well, if you're not in a guild, or if your guild has not unlocked anything to purchase, then you won't see anything. :\ The guild vendor sells special rewards that the guild has unlocked through achievements or by leveling up.