They are striated muscles, non striated muscles and cardiac muscles. Striated Muscle: The muscle which shows cross striations are called striated muscles or striped muscles. They are mostly attached to the bones by tendons and so called skeletal muscles. Their activity is under the control of will. So, they are also called voluntary
Non-striated Muscle. As the name implies, non-striated muscle lacks visible striations. Smooth muscle is the only muscle of this type and without striations, other less obvious characteristics are used to identify this tissue. Before we examine smooth muscle in longitudinal or cross-section, it might be worth our while to determine why some myofibers are striated while others are not. Smooth muscle is found in walls of hollow organs and blood vessels where contractility and stretch are both specific needs. Think of the bladder or the uterus of a pregnant female.
Nonstriated Muscle: Nonstriated muscle tissue lacks the alternating light and dark striations found in striated muscle. Smooth muscle is distributed widely among tubular visceral organs, such as the digestive tract, blood vessels, internal genitalia and associated reproductive structure, the urinary bladder, etc. Striated Muscle Tissue: Striated muscle tissue has alternating light and dark striations that run perpendicular to the long axis of the cells. The animal body has two basic types of striated muscle: skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle. Skeletal muscle is the muscle tissue of the body's soma
These myofilaments are arranged in muscles in two different ways to provide contractility with different capabilities. Smooth muscle is found in walls of hollow organs and blood vessels where contractility and stretch are both specific needs. Think of the bladder or the uterus of a pregnant female. To accommodate substantial stretch and still retain contractility, actin and myosin myofilaments are arranged randomly in smooth muscle
Non striated muscle: The muscle which show no cross striations are called non striated muscles or unstriped muscles. They look smooth, hence are called smooth muscles. Their activity of these muscles are not under the control of the will of the animal, so they are known as involuntary muscles. Striated Muscle: The muscle which shows cross striations are called striated muscles or striped muscles. They are mostly attached to the bones by tendons and so called skeletal muscles. Their activity is under the control of will.
Skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle are types of striated muscle. Skeletal muscles, a type of striated muscle, are voluntary muscles that allow for the movement of bones and joints. Thousands of sarcomeres form striated muscles. View slideshow of images abov
Smooth muscle. Smooth muscle is represented from the stomach wall. Smooth muscle tissue is defined as a non-striated muscle tissue comprising involuntary contractile elements surrounding tissues and structures where contraction is part of normal function. 
the contractile tissue that effects the movement of and within the body. Muscle tissue in the higher animals is classified as striated, smooth, or cardiac, according to its structure and function. Striated, or skeletal, muscle forms the bulk of the body's muscle tissue and gives the body its general shape. 
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium.