Dwarfism (UK : /ˈdwɔːfɪsəm/ ; US : /ˈdwɔrfɪzəm/) occurs when an individual person or animal is short in stature resulting from a medical condition caused by slow growth. In humans, dwarfism is sometimes defined as an adult height of less than 4 feet 10 inches (58 in; 147 cm). Other causes of dwarfism are spondyloepiphyseal dysplasia congenita, diastrophic dysplasia, pseudoachondroplasia, hypochondroplasia, Noonan syndrome, primordial dwarfism, Turner syndrome, osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) and hypothyroidism.
There are many causes of dwarfism. In fact, more than 200 conditions are known to cause short stature. However, one medical condition, achondroplasia, accounts for the majority of the cases of dwarfism. Achondroplasia is the most common type of short-limbed dwarfism. Typical features of people with achondroplasia includes: average-size trunk, short arms and legs with particularly short upper arms and thighs, limited range of motion at the elbows, and an enlarged head (macrocephaly)
Dwarfism, nanism, short stature, or restricted growth is a medical disorder in which the person is of abnormally short stature. According to various sources, short stature may be caused by over 200 different medical conditions. Achondroplasia-Over two-thirds of people with DSS have achondroplasia. Achondroplasia is the most common form of short stature. The person has disproportionately short limbs. Achondroplasia is caused by a mutation in FGFR3 (the fibroblast growth factor receptor-3 gene).
Dwarfism Causes. Dwarfism can be caused by any of more than 200 conditions. Causes of proportionate dwarfism include metabolic and hormonal disorders such as growth hormone deficiency. The most common types of dwarfism, known as skeletal dysplasias, are genetic. Skeletal dysplasias are conditions of abnormal bone growth that cause disproportionate dwarfism. They include: Achondroplasia. The most common form of dwarfism, achondroplasia occurs in about one out of 26,000 to 40,000 babies and is evident at birth.
Most cases of dwarfism are caused by inherited or spontaneous mutations in the FGFR3 gene, or deletions of the X chromosome. 
Causes. Most dwarfism-related conditions are genetic disorders, but the causes of some disorders are unknown. Most occurrences of dwarfism result from a random genetic mutation in either the father's sperm or the mother's egg rather than from either parent's complete genetic makeup. Other causes of dwarfism include other genetic disorders, deficiencies in other hormones or poor nutrition. Sometimes the cause is unknown. 1  Symptoms. 2  Complications.
Achondroplasia is a bone growth disorder that causes disproportionate dwarfism. Dwarfism is defined as a condition of short stature as an adult. People with achondroplasia are short in stature with a normal sized torso and short limbs. It is the most common type of disproportionate dwarfism. Normally, most cartilage converts to bone. However, in people with dwarfism, a lot of the cartilage does not convert. This is caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene. The FGFR3 gene instructs the body to make a protein necessary for bone growth and maintenance.
1 Achondroplasia is a genetic disorder of bone growth. 2  Achondroplasia is the cause of the most common type of dwarfism (short-limbed disproportionate dwarfism). 3  Achondroplasia is the most common cause of short stature with disproportionately short limbs. 4  The appearance of the person with achondroplasia is characteristic. 
In most cases, this common type of short-limbed dwarfism is related to a genetic mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene. There are two possible causes of achondroplasia. One possible cause is a genetic mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene located on chromosome 4. The other possible cause is that the condition can be inherited from a parent with achondroplasia