One of the three points that divide a range of data or population into four equal parts. The first quartile (also called the lower quartile) is the number below which lies the 25 percent of the bottom data. The second quartile (the median) divides the range in the middle and has 50 percent of the data below it. The third quartile (also called the upper quartile) has 75 percent of the data below it and the top 25 percent of the data above it. See also interquartile range and percentile
Below is an illustration of the salary range profile used by the University: Salary Range Profile Range Maximum 4th Quartile 3rd Quartile Range Mid Point 2nd Quartile 1st Quartile Range Minimum Range Minimum: The lowest salary that will be paid to individuals qualified to hold positions in the range. The pay of other employees will continue to progress and may move into the 3rd quartile, or to another range should their exceptional performance be recognized by a promotion. Typically, the salary that will be paid to individuals fully qualified to hold positions within this range.
1st Quartile. Range Minimum. Range Minimum: First Quartile (0 - 25th Percentile of Range): Salaries paid in this area typically apply to entry-level employees who are comparatively inexperienced and who are in the process of developing their skills, abilities, and knowledge in their field of endeavor. The pay of other employees will continue to progress and may move into the 3rd quartile, or to another range should their exceptional performance be recognized by a promotion. Typically, the salary that will be paid to individuals fully qualified to hold positions within this range.
In descriptive statistics, the quartiles of a ranked set of data values are the three points that divide the data set into four equal groups, each group comprising a quarter of the data. A quartile is a type of quantile. The first quartile (Q 1) is defined as the middle number between the smallest number and the median of the data set. The second quartile (Q 2) is the median of the data. The third quartile (Q 3) is the middle value between the median and the highest value of the data set. 1 Use the median to divide the ordered data set into two halves. 2  If the median is a datum (as opposed to being the mean of the middle two data), include the median in both halves. 3  The lower quartile value is the median of the lower half
In the most common variation of this, the first quartile becomes the minimum, the median becomes the midpoint and the third quartile becomes the maximum. While this is an easy (and apparently common) way to establish a salary range for a job, I advise against it. So the 75th percentile is the level below which 75% of the reported pay rates may be found. The 25th and 75th percentiles are known as the first and third quartiles, respectively, and the 50th percentile is known as the second quartile or median.
The first quartile (Q 1) is defined as the middle number between the smallest number and the median of the data set. The second quartile (Q 2) is the median of the data. 1 Use the median to divide the ordered data set into two halves. 2  If the median is a datum (as opposed to being the mean of the middle two data), include the median in both halves. 3  The lower quartile value is the median of the lower half
For example, a salary range that is 50% wide from minimum to maximum, with a midpoint exactly in the middle, will have a minimum equal to 80% of the midpoint (the same as a compa-ratio of 80%) and a maximum equal to 120% of the midpoint (the same as a compa-ratio of 120%). Dividing a salary range into quartiles is another time-honored method for managing base salary practices, and is an approach often featured in conjunction with a merit increase matrix, as Alan points out.
You could further use compa-ratio to define quartiles in this particular salary range as follows (not in a perfect geometric sense, but in a simple and straightforward one): Quartile 1: Compa-ratio of 80% to 90%. Quartile 2: Compa-ratio of 90% to 100%. Quartile 3: Compa-ratio of 100% to 110%. Dividing a salary range into quartiles is another time-honored method for managing base salary practices, and is an approach often featured in conjunction with a merit increase matrix, as Alan points out.
Fourth Quartile (75th - 100th Percentile of Range). Salaries paid in this quartile are typically associated with employee's who have consistently demonstrated outstanding performance in a position, and/or have demonstrated consistently good performance over a long period. The pay of other employees will continue to progress and may move into the 3rd quartile, or to another range should their exceptional performance be recognized by a promotion. Typically, the salary that will be paid to individuals fully qualified to hold positions within this range.
Most professionally published salary surveys report, in addition to mean or average salaries, salary quartiles. Quick stats lesson (with a little help from Wikipedia): A percentile is the value below which a certain percent of pay rates fall for a particular reported survey job. So the 75th percentile is the level below which 75% of the reported pay rates may be found. The 25th and 75th percentiles are known as the first and third quartiles, respectively, and the 50th percentile is known as the second quartile or median.