Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge.
1 Heart rate varies-we have a resting heart rate, which does exactly what it says on the tin: it is the rate at which our heart beats when we are relaxed. 2  Our heart rate goes up with exertion-the purpose of which is to deliver more oxygen and energy for the activity.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 4
Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate.
For adults, a normal resting rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Athletes may have a rate as low as 40 bpm because their hearts are trained to efficiently pump blood. If your heart rate is consistently below 60 or above 100, you may have a heart condition, such as arrhythmia.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA.
A normal resting heart rate -- your heart rate when you're completely at rest -- for the average adult is 60 to 80 beats per minute. People who are very physically fit often have slightly lower resting heart rates. Also, heart rate, much like weight, tends to increase with age.
Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.