Examine the lives and work of famous empathetic people. It's easier to become more empathetic when you have good role models. Choose people deeply involved in a social cause you respect and read biographies to better understand how they used their empathy. Read good fiction. Save. Empathy is the ability to understand others to the point that you can experience their emotions and internal drives. Most of us are good at being empathetic with those we love, but increasing your empathy beyond your social group takes practice.
Through it, we can perceive more clearly what is going on in the minds and hearts of those around us. When the third eye is closed, we tend to be more mental in our approach, and spend way too much time trying to figure things out instead of just knowing.. To open the third eye, sit quietly focusing on the third eye. While you attention is there, chant the mantra, aum. envision light filling your skull, and emanating out of your third eye. After a time, if you like, you may ask a question, and allow a vision that represents the answer to appear in your mind. When you are finished meditating on the third eye, be sure to spend a little time focusing on your root chakra to help ground your energy.
TL;DR: Empathy is the most important skill you can practice. It will lead to greater success personally and professionally and will allow you to become happier the more you practice. 
Being able to practice empathy is one of the most important skills you can learn. In a world that spends so much time picking at flaws and igniting fear and anger in people, empathy can be a balm to that fear and anger. It can help you, and others, lead a more fulfilling and healthier life. Be mindful about how others you interact with might be feeling. 1  Notice your surroundings, really notice them. 2  Research has shown that practicing mindfulness about your surroundings and the people around you makes you more likely to extend empathy towards them and to help when someone needs it.
An Empath Can Be a Real Chameleon. I have this theory that people become empaths as a way to stay safe in their world. If you know what those around you are feeling, then you know how to adjust what you say and do to make them comfortable so that they are safer people to be around, both emotionally and physically. Center of Being. Once you have the shield body in place, imagine that there is a spark in the center of your being that is your pure essence. Focus your attention on the spark, being all your senses to bear. Also be aware of your sensations, emotions and thoughts.
Understand your own emotions. To increase your empathy, you need to start with yourself. Pay close attention to your emotional state, noting what situations change your emotions, what gives rise to positive emotions and negative emotions. Use this material as a point from which to understand others' emotional responses. Save. Empathy is the ability to understand others to the point that you can experience their emotions and internal drives. Most of us are good at being empathetic with those we love, but increasing your empathy beyond your social group takes practice.
Indeed, some of us may be said to be more empathetic than others, which means that some are prone to empathize more often than others. Notice that in saying that some people are more empathetic, I do not mean that some people have higher quality experiences of empathy than others. They are pregnant or not. In contrast, people can be more or less overweight. Being empathetic does not admit of degrees. Either you are being empathetic or not. To the extent that you lack any of the requisite cognitive, emotional or behavioral components of empathy, you lack empathy.
America’s empathy may be in decline but it can come back. For the sake of a healthy society, there are few more important tasks. Roman Krznaric’s new book is Empathy: Why It Matters, and How to Get It. He is a faculty member of The School of Life in London and founder of the world’s first digital Empathy Library. Absolutely, according to recent research, and it’s happening now in America. Empathy—the ability to step imaginatively into the shoes of another person and understand their feelings and perspectives—seems to be in freefall.