Dietary fibers can act by changing the nature of the contents of the gastrointestinal tract and by changing how other nutrients and chemicals are absorbed. Some types of soluble fiber absorb water to become a gelatinous, viscous substance which is fermented by bacteria in the digestive tract. 1 Insoluble fiber, which does not dissolve in water, is metabolically inert and provides bulking, or it can be prebiotic and metabolically ferment in the large intestine. 2  Bulking fibers absorb water as they move through the digestive system, easing defecation.
Fiber is commonly classified as soluble, which dissolves in water, or insoluble, which doesn't dissolve. 1  Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Insoluble fiber
1 Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 4  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Insoluble fiber
The scientific names for soluble fibers include pectins, gums, mucilages, and some hemicelluloses. Good sources of soluble fiber include oats and oatmeal, legumes (peas, beans, lentils), barley, fruits and vegetables (especially oranges, apples and carrots). Insoluble fiber does not absorb or dissolve in water. It passes through our digestive system in close to its original form. Insoluble fiber offers many benefits to intestinal health, including a reduction in the risk and occurrence of hemorrhoids and constipation. Most of insoluble fibers come from the bran layers of cereal grains. Since dietary fiber is found only in plant products (i.e., nuts, whole grains, legumes, fruits and vegetables), these are essential to a healthy diet.
Insoluble fibers absorb water in the colon that softens and increases the bulk of the stool. This action helps relieve constipation and helps prevent colon disease and hemorrhoids. Water-soluble fiber can help you lower your blood cholesterol and glucose (sugar) levels. 
Soluble fibers dissolve in water and are classified as pectins, gums and mucilages. This type of fiber is found in apples, carrots, oats, barley and legumes (lentils, beans and peas). Insoluble fibers do not dissolve in water and are classified as lignins, celluloses and hemicelluloses. 
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. 1 Insoluble fiber, which does not dissolve in water, is metabolically inert and provides bulking, or it can be prebiotic and metabolically ferment in the large intestine. 2  Bulking fibers absorb water as they move through the digestive system, easing defecation.
Types of Fiber. Soluble fiber: Soluble fibers include pectin, beta glucan, gums, and mucilages. They absorb water to form a gel-like substance, which slows digestion. Soluble fiber binds to cholesterol-containing bile acids preventing absorption. As a result it is linked to a reduction in LDL (bad) cholesterol. 