Has anyone lowered their dose of lexapro to 7.5 mg from 10 mg and if so,what were side effects? I am a long time user of lexapro and have been taking 5mg for about 4 years and about a three weeks ago my doctor upped my dose to 10 mg because of a traumatic event. 
Dosage and instructions. The usual dose of escitalopram is 10 mg/day for depression and 10-20 mg/day for anxiety. The dose may need to be decreased in the elderly and in people with liver problems. Escitalopram is taken once a day and can be taken either in the morning or evening, with or without food
For all patients, 10 mg/day is the recommended starting dose of LEXAPRO. 10 mg/day is also the maintenance dose for many patients. If the dose is increased to 20 mg/day, this should occur after a minimum of 1 week. LEXAPRO can be taken morning or evening once daily, with or without food. 
Best Answer: You might feel some discomfort at the beginning. If you do, you can take an extra 10-mg pill to help smooth things over. The longer you're on the 10 mg pills, the less you'll find yourself needing the extra 10 mg pill-and you'll be settled in on the lower dose. By the way... to save money, I get 20 mg Lexapro pills, and cut them in half with a pill cutter. That cuts the cost of the Lexapro almost in half! Best of luck to you :-) . Decreasing dosage of Lexapro. Hi, I've been taking 20mg of Lexapro for anxiety for the past year. My doctor gave me a prescription of 10mg to ween off the medication.
The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of Lexapro demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of Lexapro, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ]. Initial Treatment. Adolescents. The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A flexible-dose trial of Lexapro (10 to 20 mg/day) demonstrated the effectiveness of Lexapro [see Clinical Studies ]. If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of three weeks. Adults
Individual doses of Lexapro can range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day. For elderly people or people with liver problems, the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Dosing Recommendations for Lexapro. The recommended starting dose of Lexapro for adults or adolescents (age 12 to 17 years old) with depression or adults with generalized anxiety disorder is 10 mg once a day. Your healthcare provider may choose to increase the dose if symptoms continue, or decrease it if side effects occur
Lexapro: Lexapro is dosed as 10-20 mg. Daily, and can be lowered to 5mg. In kids or elderly. Few exceptions exist if it is determined by your doctor that response is only partial after sufficient time and no side effects, where higher dose is tried, usually up to 30mg. Get help from a doctor now ›. Possibly: Lexapro affects serotonin, a neurotransmitter in the brain that modulates mood as well as anxiety. Lowering the dose of Lexapro could increase anxiety, especially if it was done too quickly. Please discuss this with your prescribing physician