Irish Meaning: The name Calum is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Calum is: a Latin name meaning dove. Celtic Meaning: The name Calum is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Calum is: Dove. Gaelic Meaning: The name Calum is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Calum is: Dove. Can also be a 'Servant/disciple of Saint Columba'.
In addition, Calum is a variant of the name Malcolm (English and Scottish). The name Calumina (English and Scottish) is the female version of Calum. Calum has 16 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Calam, Calem, Calim, Callom, Calom, Calym, and Kalum. Calum is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Out of the group of boy names directly linked to Calum, Malcolm was the most commonly used in 2012.
Calum /ca-lum/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAL-um. It is of Scottish, Gaelic and Latin origin, and the meaning of Calum is dove. Variant of Columba. This was popular among early Christians because the dove was a symbol of gentleness, purity, peace, and the Holy Spirit. Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Calum for boys. Calum reached its apex rank of #44 in Ireland in the year 2006, but is not found in the list at the moment.
Calum is a rare first name for men. Calum is a unique surname too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Calum for boys. Calum reached its apex rank of #44 in Ireland in the year 2006, but is not found in the list at the moment.
The name Callum is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Callum is: Dove. Can also be a 'Servant/disciple of Columba'. Irish Meaning: The name Callum is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Callum is: a Latin name meaning dove. Scottish Meaning: The name Callum is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Callum is: Bald dov
The name Calum comes from the Latin word Columba meaning dove. That means they are a serious thinker, loyal and steadfast, who always does a job well. He has a dry sense of humour. also the word means peace messenger in charokee. 
Borrowed from the Scottish, Calum is a Gaelic form of the Latin Columba (dove). Var: Callum, Kallum. Short: Cal, Kal. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
[ 2 syll. ca-lum, cal-um ] The baby boy name Calum is pronounced as K AE L-ahM †. Calum is an English and Scottish name of Latin and Celtic origin. Latin origin: A biblical name, it is derived from the element 'columba' which means dove. Columba (Latin) is an old form of Calum. The name was popular with early Christians as its meaning is symbolic of peace, purity, and the Holy Spirit. Calum is not regularly used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Out of the group of boy names directly linked to Calum, Malcolm was the most commonly used in 2012.
Borrowed from the Scottish, Calum is a Gaelic form of the Latin Columba (dove). Var: Callum, Kallum. Short: Cal, Kal. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Calum: | Edit. My older brother's name is Calum but he goes by Cal. A lot of people tend to mispronounce his name as Cale-um as in Caleb. My parents liked the name Cal but didn't like Calvin so my mom found this name in a book she was reading and like it so they used it.
Calum is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ca-lum. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2452 in baby name popularity for boys with 51 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.