Budapest ::: One City = Two. Despite the similarities in the different origins of the name, Buda and Pest are two clearly different parts of the city. Buda is the one on the left bank of the river Danube, the part of the city that proudly holds Buda Castle, one of the main attractions in Budapest. Whether you prefer the more photogenic Buda or the more modern Pest, rent apartments in Budapest and enjoy these two ‘cities’ for an experience that’s different to anything the West can offer. About the Author: Aleix Gwilliam is a 24 year old from Barcelona who looks English but thinks like a Catalan.
Trailer Parts & Accessories in Buda, Texas. Trailer parts are available at Big Tex Buda to fit all brands of utility, gooseneck, dump, motorcycle and equipment trailers. As one of the leading CM Trailer Dealers, we also have horse and livestock parts from brush guards to roof tarps available. 
Budapest/Buda. Buda is the western side of the Danube River in Budapest, Hungary. See the main Budapest page to understand, get in, get around, see, do, and stay safe. See below for where to eat, drink, and sleep. Buda is the western side of the Danube River in Budapest, Hungary. See the main Budapest page to understand, get in, get around, see, do, and stay safe
The Hungarian capital Budapest is in fact two cities, Buda and Pest, divided by the river Danube. The two parts of the city could not be more different, as Aleix describes in this week’s guest post. Special thanks to Pedro Szekely for the amazing Budapest photography featured on this post. I plan to visit the country soon and can only hope to capture shots as elegant as these :). Whether you prefer the more photogenic Buda or the more modern Pest, rent apartments in Budapest and enjoy these two ‘cities’ for an experience that’s different to anything the West can offer. About the Author: Aleix Gwilliam is a 24 year old from Barcelona who looks English but thinks like a Catalan.
One city, two views ... on everything – Buda and Pest may be within spitting distance of each other across the Danube, but they developed quite independently. Hilly Buda offers the best panoramas of the city: Pest is flat as a prairie. Budapest rolls off the tongue pretty easily, and the Hungarian capital itself feels as if it's been around for a long time. But Budapest is a relatively recent construct -- the result of an 1873 merger between two distinct cities: Buda on the western bank of the Danube and Pest on the bank opposite. The result, Budapest, sounds so much more natural than other twin cities -- Minneapolis/St
[ˈpɛʃt]) is the eastern, mostly flat part of Budapest, Hungary, comprising about two thirds of the city's territory. It is separated from Buda, the other part of Budapest, by the Danube River. Among its most notable parts are the Inner City, including the Hungarian Parliament, Heroes' Square and Andrassy Andrássy. Avenue in Colloquial, Hungarian pest is often used for the whole capital Of. budapest 
Budapest yokes together two formerly separate cities: Buda and Pest, on opposite sides of the Danube. Buda, on the West side of the river is hilly and semi-suburban, and has winding, narrow streets wending their way up into the hills. Speaking of spas, Budapest has many, on both sides of the river. It also has grand boulevards, now somewhat dilapidated in parts (and therefore in frequent demand as the set for movies depicting war-torn 20th Century Europe), but others are being restored.
1 Separated by the Danube, Pest and Buda became one city in 1873. 2  Budapest was almost called Pestbuda. 3  Hilly Buda has great views; Pest is flat but buzzing. 4  Even the thermal spas on each side have a different vibe. Budapest rolls off the tongue pretty easily, and the Hungarian capital itself feels as if it's been around for a long time. But Budapest is a relatively recent construct -- the result of an 1873 merger between two distinct cities: Buda on the western bank of the Danube and Pest on the bank opposite. The result, Budapest, sounds so much more natural than other twin cities -- Minneapolis/St