Resting for 5-10 min will not cause meat to become cold; big roasts can sit for as much as 30 minutes without significant loss of heat. – DrRandy Jun 29 '14 at 19:30. add a comment |. up vote 8 down vote. You don't have to leave it out for an hour or anything. Some things you can do to stop the meat being too cold when you serve it: 1  You can rest the meat wrapped in foil, this will stop it from getting too cool too quickly if you are not ready to serve once its had the time to rest.
Take it from the heat and place it on a warm plate or serving platter. Cover the meat loosely with foil. If you cover it tightly with the foil or wrap it in foil, you will make the hot meat sweat and lose the valuable moisture you are trying to keep in the meat. How long should meat rest. Why all meat should rest after cooking. As meat is cooked the proteins in the meat heat up and set. The more cooked the meat, the more ‘set’ the proteins have become. This is why we can judge a piece of meat's doneness by prodding it with tongs – the firmer the meat, the more ‘done’ it is.
My issue is the temperature of the meat. As soon as I let it rest for 5 minutes after cooked, the meat cools down and it's no longer hot. I assume, since it has only been cooked for 3 minutes per side, that explains how fast it gets cold. And what is the room temperature? 70 F? – Zeynel Jan 6 '14 at 1:35. I wait around 5 min for the meat to rest, and yes, room temp is in the 70s – samyb8 Jan 6 '14 at 2:50. You wait 5 min --before cooking--? I wait sometimes 2 hours for a steak that I took out from refrigerator and inside is barely at 70.
2) Far more important than resting the meat is cooking it to the right temperature. Once you get beyond 140°F, the moisture from water in any meat drops precipitously. The ultimate folly is the diner who orders a medium steak (140°F) and insists that it rest for 20 minutes. Depending on how hot and how long you cook, there might be 10 to 25% water loss, mostly due to evaporation and dripping. Let's call it 15%. So a properly cooked steak is down to about 60% water, but most of it cannot escape when the meat is cut because it is bound by proteins and held by capillary action.
1 You can rest the meat wrapped in foil, this will stop it from getting too cool too quickly if you are not ready to serve once its had the time to rest. 2  you can rest it and then warm it again before you eat it, either under a hot grill for a little, or in an oven. 3  serve it with a hot sauce which will warm the meat. Some things you can do to stop the meat being too cold when you serve it: 1 
Once you take it from the oven, tent the meat in foil to keep the meat warm once the internal temperature peaks. The amount of resting time for a particular cut of meat or cooking technique will vary, though it's usually between 10 and 20 minutes. Your recipe will be your best reference for this. 
I've been trying to cook more lately, and I keep coming across recipes that want me to keep the meat warm while I finish the rest. 
There are a couple things you can do which will help: 1  Tent the steak, while resting, with aluminum foil, to minimize the cooling. 2  Warm your plates. 3  If you feel fancy, use a plate cover or cloche to help keep the plate warm until it is presented. And what is the room temperature? 70 F? – Zeynel Jan 6 '14 at 1:35. I wait around 5 min for the meat to rest, and yes, room temp is in the 70s – samyb8 Jan 6 '14 at 2:50. You wait 5 min --before cooking--? I wait sometimes 2 hours for a steak that I took out from refrigerator and inside is barely at 70.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. First it only needs to rest for 5 minutes, not 10 Next, since you are using a pan to cook it, turn the heat off and put a lid on the pan. the heat that is still in the pan will keep it warm. If too done to your liking, next time reduce cook time per side. Hambone · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 