namecandy-Celebrity baby names, ask the Name Lady, & more. 
PHOTOS: How the Jolie-Pitt clan has grown. Maddox's middle name, Chivan, means life in the Khmer language of Cambodia, according to some sources. Maddox was born in Cambodia, where his name was originally RathVibol. « 1  Previous. PHOTOS: The Jolie-Pitts hit the beach. The x ending of Maddox's name started a pattern for the Jolie-Pitt boys, with the names of brothers Pax and Knox also ending in the edgy letter. Other x-ending names that have been stylish recently include Alex, for both boys and girls, Beatrix, Jax and Max.
Hello, Guest. Maddox, a previously obscure Welsh family name with a powerfully masculine image, suddenly came into the spotlight when Angelina Jolie chose it for her son in 2003. By the following year it was in the middle of the Top 1000, and by 2014 had reached Number 163, with more than two thousand baby boys inheriting the name. 
The boy was born in November 2003 and was abandoned as an infant. •Maddox Chivan, 5: Jolie was married to Billy Bob Thornton in 2002 when she adopted her first child, a Cambodian-born son named Rath Vibol. Maddox is a Celtic or Welsh name meaning beneficent, but Chivan has no origin, says Rosenkrantz. It's a name that certainly has not been used in the last century.. They seem to be going in an all-embracing way in terms of gender, meaning and balance, she says. The couple have chosen several unisex names for their children, and they have also moved toward recognizing their children's heritage or heroes with middle names.
Happy 9th birthday, Maddox Chivan Jolie-Pitt! The name Maddox was virtually unknown in the U.S. when Angelina Jolie adopted her first son, born August 5, 2001. A Celtic name meaning son of Madoc, it relates to the Welsh root Mad, which means fortunate.. PHOTOS: The Jolie-Pitts hit the beach. The x ending of Maddox's name started a pattern for the Jolie-Pitt boys, with the names of brothers Pax and Knox also ending in the edgy letter. Other x-ending names that have been stylish recently include Alex, for both boys and girls, Beatrix, Jax and Max.
•Shiloh Nouvel, 10 months: Jolie gave birth to the couple's youngest daughter in the African country of Namibia. Of Hebrew origin, Shiloh means peaceful one, and Rosenkrantz says it is a name that's catching on for both sexes. They seem to be going in an all-embracing way in terms of gender, meaning and balance, she says. The couple have chosen several unisex names for their children, and they have also moved toward recognizing their children's heritage or heroes with middle names.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Chivan in Hindu origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Correctly said, new born babies don’t have very good reflex actions. An example of the same is that they don’t blink their eyes very often as adults do, this may be the reason you will always lose in the eye blink game.
This Greek name is a feminine form of the Greek Iōannēs, which is in turn a shortened form of the Hebrew Johanan (יוֹחָנָן Yoḥānān, yôḥānān a shortened form of יְהוֹחָנָן), yəhoḥānān 'Yəhôḥānān meaning god', is gracious and origin of the Masculine name john and. its cognates Siobhan (Siobhán english: /pronunciation/ ʃɨˈvɔːn-SHI; [vawn] ˈʃɪwaːn̪ˠ [or]) ʃəˈvˠaːn̪ˠ is a Feminine irish. name
The name Shiloh comes from the Hebrew origin. The name Nouvel is a spelling variation of the French name Nouvelle, meaning new.. Brad Pitt is an American actor. Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie have named their babies: Zahara Marley: A baby girl. The name Zahara comes from the Arabic origin. The name Marley comes from the English origin. Maddox Chivan Thornton: A baby boy. The name Maddox comes from Welsh origin. The name Chivan is a Cambodian name meaning life.. The name Thornton was given after the actor/director Billy Bob Thornton. Shiloh Nouvel: A baby girl. The name Shiloh comes from the Hebrew origin. The name Nouvel is a spelling variation of the French name Nouvelle, meaning new.. Similar Names: 1  Brad (English). 