Terrence Howard's ex-wife Michelle Ghent is demanding a cut of his Empire paycheque on top of the $500k he already owes her.
The Empire star filed a police report with the Los Angeles Police Department, and he has an idea who is behind the threats he started receiving via social media a year ago. According to TMZ, Howard claims his ex-wife, Michelle Ghent, is behind the posts on an Instagram account.
Michelle White is a recurring character in the first season of Empire. She first appears in Sins of the Father, the tenth episode. She is a music therapist at the rehabilitation center where Andre Lyon was placed.
Real life singing sensation and Oscar-winning actress Jennifer Hudson is coming to Empire to help. She's playing Michelle, a music therapist. Andre Lyon is portrayed by actor Trai Byers. He’s best known for his TV roles in All My Children (Mookie), 90210 (Alec Martin) and for his recent role in the film Selma.
Scroll down for video. Empire of the sum: Terrence Howard's ex-wife Michelle Ghent has demanded the cut of his Empire cheque she's owed. But after the massive success of Empire, Howard is now earning $125k per episode, and Michelle wants what she is entitled to.
The actor's second ex-wife Michelle Ghent is demanding a cut of his Empire wages.
according to his ex, who says even though he's getting big paychecks for a new TV show -- he still refuses to pay up the $500k he owes. Michelle Howard says she filed a subpoena to get Terrence's contract for his new series Empire -- and found out he's making $125k per filmed episode.
Instead, she's playing Michelle, a music therapist brought in to work with Andre (Trai Byers), who is also a devout Christian. In her first episode, Sins of the Father, she asked Andre to pray with her, something she acknowledged could get her in trouble at work.
Someone else is digging into Lucious Lyon's pockets -- Terrence Howard 's real life ex-wife is demanding a chunk of his  Empire  salary. Michelle Howard is already supposed to get $5,800 per month from Terrence -- but according to new docs ...