Practice Essentials. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion (SIADH) is defined by the hyponatremia and hypo-osmolality resulting from inappropriate, continued secretion or action of the hormone despite normal or increased plasma volume, which results in impaired water excretion. This decrease causes increased water excretion, which leads to a dilute urine with an osmolality of 40-100 mOsm/kg. When plasma osmolality rises, AVP is secreted, which results in an increase in water reabsorption and an increase in urine osmolality to as much as 14
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH): A relatively small (peptide) molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). ADH has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic). 
ADH causes your kidneys to retain water by reducing the amount they excrete in urine. During vigorous exercise, circulating ADH levels can increase up to 10-fold and urine output is reduced by 50 percent to 70 percent. Antidiuretic Hormone. During vigorous exercise, sweating reduces blood fluid volume and redistributed blood compromises fluid absorption. This means that it is essential for your body to conserve water. There are a number of hormones that regulate water and solute concentrations in your blood.
1 Decreased water intake or increased exercise by decreasing urine output. 2  To do this your body’s nervous system has to communicate with the endocrine system. 3  Water balance is regulated by antidiuretic hormone (ADH). 4  ADH regulates osmotic pressure of body fluids by causing the kidneys to increase water reabsorption. 1 Increased water intake by increasing urine output. 2  Decreased water intake or increased exercise by decreasing urine output. 3  To do this your body’s nervous system has to communicate with the endocrine system. 4
Antidiuretic hormone stimulates water reabsorbtion by stimulating insertion of water channels or aquaporins into the membranes of kidney tubules. These channels transport solute-free water through tubular cells and back into blood, leading to a decrease in plasma osmolarity and an increase osmolarity of urine. Physiologic Effects of Antidiuretic Hormone. Effects on the Kidney. The single most important effect of antidiuretic hormone is to conserve body water by reducing the loss of water in urine. A diuretic is an agent that increases the rate of urine formation.
Normally these cells are more sensitive to small changes in blood sodium. If the sodium level drops, ADH secretion drops, and the kidneys respond by dumping out more free water (the urine becomes more dilute). Thus the blood sodium concentration increases. If the sodium conc. rises, the secretion of ADH increases and the kidneys hold on to more free water; the sodium concentration then falls back to normal. To continue the discussion on exercise related hyponatremia (low concentration of sodium in the blood).... There are thought to be three potential mechanisms to account for hyponatremia during exercise, I) salt and water lost in sweat and urine are replaced unequally (i.e. water replacement is greater than sodium). Over a period of time (e.g. an Ironman), the cumulative sodium losses mount up
Definition. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) test, also called the Vasopressin test, is a test for the antidiuretic hormone, which is released from the pituitary gland and acts on the kidneys to increase their reabsorption of water into the blood. 
Antidiuretic hormone, also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone produced by the hypothalamus in the brain and stored in the posterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. ADH helps regulate water balance in the body. With ADH suppression or stimulation tests, a health practitioner is looking for appropriate levels of ADH, osmolality, and kidney water retention responses. 1  A water loading ADH suppression test may be used to help diagnose SIADH.