1 Remove the bottom branches of the tomato plant, especially if they come in contact with the soil. 2  Cut the bottom branches with a pair of scissors or garden shears. 3  Trim the branches right at the plant stem, but do not cut into the stem. 1 Use a copper or sulphur based fungicidal spray to treat the tomato plants. 2  Spray the leaves until they are dripping wet. 3  It is best to use this spray when it is cloudy or first thing in the morning. 4  Avoid using it in full sun when it’s very hot outside.
Early tomato blight sounds scary. Leaves turn yellow, curl up and die. Your tomato plant looks like the grim reaper took a crap on it. Don't worry one bit! Here's the EZ fast way to control early blight and save your tomato plants. You're going to love how simple this is! 
If you discover blights in your vegetable garden (whether it’s found on tomatoes, potatoes, eggplant, or other plants) ALWAYS remove the infected plant and dispose of it. You can either burn the plant, or place it in a garbage bag and throw it in the trash. 1 Use a copper or sulphur based fungicidal spray to treat the tomato plants. 2  Spray the leaves until they are dripping wet. 3  It is best to use this spray when it is cloudy or first thing in the morning. 4  Avoid using it in full sun when it’s very hot outside.
Blight produces spores that can remain in the soil for 3 years. We created a new bed for our tomatoes, planted beans in the raised beds (add nitrogen back to the soil), cleaned all the lawn tools in bleach water as well as the tomato stakes and cages to kill any of the spores lingering on them. You might be trying to treat for the wrong thing. It could be anything from a lack of nutrients to a disease. I've attached a link to a site that has a pretty comprehensive listing of garden issues and pests and the organic solutions for them. Source(s): http://www.extremelygreen.com/pestcontro...
It depends on what kind of blight you have or if it is some other kind of tomato problem. If it is late blight, which occurs with the cool wet weather we have been having, there isn't much you can do other than remove the diseased plants to prevent it from spreading to other plants. Keep the garden well-weeded and tomato plants pruned to have good air circulation. Also, try and plant blight resistant varieties. http://www.extension.umn.edu/garden/yard-garden/vegetables/late-blight-of-potato-and-tomato.
Tomatoes can fall prey to a number of tomato plant bacterial diseases, including bacterial spot, bacterial speck, and bacterial canker. They're all slightly different but appear as spots on leaves and fruits. Use the same controls as for septoria leaf spot. Grow disease-resistant plants. As tomato plants grow, keep an eye out for tomato pests and tomato plant diseases such as tomato wilt that may come in the form of fungi, bacteria, or viruses. Get tips for growing healthy tomatoes.
Septoria leaf spot: Symptoms of this disease usually first appear on the oldest leaves, after fruit start to ripen. Drought stress: This physiological injury can be distinguished from late blight by the lack of the fuzzy, spore-producing growth and the lack of stem lesions. Late blight, a disease that strikes tomatoes and potatoes, can quickly ruin an entire crop — and provide a source of infection for other plants. Prevent overwintering: Fortunately, the fungus that causes late blight needs living tissue to survive over the winter, so it can't overwinter on tomato cages or supports. However, infected potatoes (the other plant that gets late blight) can carry the disease through the winter.
10. Once signs are observed in leaves, immediately remove and destroy the leaves at the first sign of blight. Ideal is if the leaves are burned as it will destroy the spores and prevent spreading. 11. Do not add the infected leaves, fruits and stems to your garden compost. This in turn can affect all the other plants. 12
Water tomato plants at ground level to keep the leaves as dry as possible. Keep the garden well-weeded and tomato plants pruned to have good air circulation. Also, try and plant blight resistant varieties. http://www.extension.umn.edu/garden/yard-garden/vegetables/late-blight-of-potato-and-tomato. Early blight is also a fungus and tends to attack older plants
The tomato virus protective spray prevents several viruses from attacking tomato plants, including tomato leaf blight, tomato mosaic virus and spotted wilt virus. The recipe for this protective spray is 1 gallon of water, 8 ounces of skim milk and 1/2 teaspoon of antitranspirant. 