If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). 2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off.
Put eggs and cold water into a pot. Bring the water to a boil (takes 13-17 min.) Once the water is boiling, remove from the heat, cover and let set for 14 minutes. Blance in c … old water until eggs are cool to the touch. 
What I do is fill a pan with warm water and place in the eggs along with 1-2tb of salt. Do not put the eggs in when the water is boiling. Turn on high. Once it comes to a boil, time it for 10 minutes for a hard boiled egg. Rinse and let sit in cold water. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: First, put them in the pan gently then cover with water, to just about an inch above the eggs. Put them on the stove, put the lid on the pot, turn the heat to high. When steam starts coming from the pot, turn off the heat and set the timer for 14 minutes. Drain carefully, so as not to crack the eggs, and gently drop into ice
Heat the pot on high heat and bring the water to a full rolling boil. Adding a teaspoon of vinegar to the water may help keep egg whites from running out if an egg does crack while cooking. Also some people find adding 1/2 teaspoon of salt to the water helps prevent cracking as well as making the eggs easier to peel. 2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off.
1 All you do is put the egg or eggs (I used to do this at work in a big pan 30 eggs in it). 2  Pour boiling water half way up the egg. 3  You will hear a hissing sound as the pressure in the egg changes. 4  When it stops (after about 15 to 30 seconds) put the pan on heat and cook as normal. 
The first way is truly a method. Find a pan large enough to hold all of the eggs you want to boil in a single layer. I then cover that layer of eggs with cold water. The operative word is cold water, not hot from the tap but cold from the tap. Bring that pan of water to a rolling boil for one minute. I then remove the pan from the heat and wait. 
Bring the water to a gentle boil using a medium heat. Let the water boil slowly so that the eggs do not crack from a rapid temperature shift. Cover the pot with a lid. The water will boil a bit more quickly with the lid on, but feel free to leave it off if you want to keep an eye on the eggs. 1 You can also wait to add vinegar when an egg cracks in the water. 2  You may notice a bit of white fluid seeping from a cracked egg. 3  Try to be quick here — if you add the vinegar to the water as soon as you notice a crack, the egg should still boil evenly. 4  If you don't add the vinegar in time, don't worry.
Sort the eggs and place them in a pot or saucepan. Stack the eggs very gently to avoid cracking. Don't overcrowd the pot—you should only boil one layer of eggs at a time, and they should not be pressing against each other. If you try to boil too many eggs at once, some of them may crack from the weight. 1 You can also wait to add vinegar when an egg cracks in the water. 2  You may notice a bit of white fluid seeping from a cracked egg. 3  Try to be quick here — if you add the vinegar to the water as soon as you notice a crack, the egg should still boil evenly. 4  If you don't add the vinegar in time, don't worry.
Here is the way I cook my own perfect hard boiled eggs…. 1  Using a heavy bottomed saucepan, cover the eggs with cold water by at least an inch of water. 2  Bring the water to a boil uncovered. 3  Once boiling, remove the pot from the heat and cover it. 4  Let the pot sit for about 15 minutes. 