Fibroids are abnormal growths that develop in or on a woman’s uterus. Sometimes, these tumors become quite large and cause severe abdominal pain and heavy periods. In other cases, they cause no signs or symptoms at all. The growths are typically benign (non-cancerous). Symptoms of fibroids may include: 1  heavy bleeding between or during your periods that includes blood clots. 2  pain in the pelvis and/or lower back. 3  increased menstrual cramping.
Uterine fibroids (leiomyomata) are noncancerous growths that develop in or just outside a woman’s uterus (womb). Uterine fibroids develop from normal uterus muscle cells that start growing abnormally. As the cells grow, they form a benign tumor. 
Uterine fibroids, also known as uterine leiomyoma, myoma, fibromyoma, fibroleiomyoma, are benign smooth muscle tumors of the uterus. Most women have no symptoms while others may have painful or heavy periods. If they push on the bladder a frequent need to urinate may occur. 
Most fibroids do not cause any symptoms, but some women with fibroids can have: 1  Heavy bleeding (which can be heavy enough to cause anemia) or painful periods. 2  Feeling of fullness in the pelvic area (lower stomach area). 3  Enlargement of the lower abdomen. 4  Frequent urination. Some have pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. Fibroids also can put pressure on the bladder, causing frequent urination, or the rectum, causing rectal pressure. Should the fibroids get very large, they can cause the abdomen (stomach area) to enlarge, making a woman look pregnant.
Fibroid is also known as a uterine leiomyomata or “myoma,”. Fibroid is a lump or growth in the uterus that is not cancerous. Fibroids can be as small as a pea to as large as a basketball. Fibroids are usually round and pinkish in color, and they can grow anywhere inside or on the uterus. While some women have only one fibroid, they typically are present in groups of two or more. Complications in pregnancy of fibroids. 1  When a fibroid grows in or near the fallopian tubes. 2  Fibroids can partially or completely block the egg cells to go down and meet with sperm cells ultimately preventing pregnancy... 3  The fertilized egg cannot implant into the uterus because a fibroid is occupying its space.
Fibroids are muscular tumors that grow in the wall of the uterus (womb). Another medical term for fibroids is leiomyoma (leye-oh-meye-OH-muh) or just myoma. Fibroids are almost always benign (not cancerous). Fibroids can grow as a single tumor, or there can be many of them in the uterus. Some have pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. Fibroids also can put pressure on the bladder, causing frequent urination, or the rectum, causing rectal pressure. Should the fibroids get very large, they can cause the abdomen (stomach area) to enlarge, making a woman look pregnant.
A uterine fibroid is the most common benign (not cancerous) tumor of a woman's uterus (womb). Fibroids are tumors of the smooth muscle found in the wall of the uterus. They can develop within the uterine wall itself or attach to it. They may grow as a single tumor or in clusters. 1 Fibroids start in the muscle tissues of the uterus. 2  They can grow into the uterine cavity (submucosal), into the thickness of the uterine wall (intramuscular), or on the surface of the uterus (subsersoal) into the abdominal cavity.
1 This surgery is used when a woman's fibroids are large, if she has heavy bleeding, is either near or past menopause, or does not want children. 2  If the fibroids are large, a woman may need a hysterectomy that involves cutting into the abdomen to remove the uterus. Some have pain and heavy menstrual bleeding. Fibroids also can put pressure on the bladder, causing frequent urination, or the rectum, causing rectal pressure. Should the fibroids get very large, they can cause the abdomen (stomach area) to enlarge, making a woman look pregnant.
Uterine fibroids are the most common female pelvic tumor, affecting up to 30% of women. Fibroids are non-cancerous tumors that arise from smooth muscle cells within the uterus and can result in symptoms such as pelvic pain, pelvic pressure, urinary frequency, abdominal fullness, infertility and heavy menstrual bleeding. Complications in pregnancy of fibroids. 1  When a fibroid grows in or near the fallopian tubes. 2  Fibroids can partially or completely block the egg cells to go down and meet with sperm cells ultimately preventing pregnancy... 3  The fertilized egg cannot implant into the uterus because a fibroid is occupying its space.
Fibroids are non-cancerous (benign) tumors that grow from the muscle layers of the uterus (womb) . They are also known as uterine fibroids, myomas, or fibromyomas. The singular of uterine fibroids is Uterine Fibroma. Fibroids are growths of smooth muscle and fibrous tissue. 