By Sally Robertson, BSc. A fistula is an abnormal, tube-like connection that forms between two organs or vessels that are lined with epithelial cells. Fistulas are generally the result of a disease condition, but artificial fistulas may also be surgically created for therapy. Fistulas may also form between the rectum and the vagina and this is called a rectovaginal fistula. Although fistulas are usually caused by injury or surgery, they may also form after an infection has led to severe inflammation.
A colovesical fistula is the presence of a communication between the lumen of the colon and that of the bladder, either directly or via an intervening abscess cavity (foyer intermediaire). When the communication is between the rectum and urinary bladder, the term rectovesical fistula is used. Radiographic features. In most cases the fistula occurs thought the dome of the bladder (~ 60%). The posterior wall (~ 30%) and trigone (~ 10%) are less frequent sites 2. A colovesical fistulas and its cause can be visualised in a number of ways, although the fistulous tract itself is often difficult to demonstrated.
Colovesical fistula usually results from bowel disease, with the bladder being secondarily involved. Half of such fistulas are complications of diverticulitis, secondary to abscess formation between the two organs. 
Vaginal fistula, (particularly due to diverticular disease), Crohn's disease or carcinoma of the colon or bladder, instrumentation and after trauma are other causes of gas production, and differential diagnosis should be made with emphysematous cystitis. colovesical fistula, a fistula connecting the colon and the urinary bladder. Also called vesicocolonic fistula. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Definitions: 1. a fistulous passage connecting the colon and urinary bladder. Synonyms: vesicocolic fistula. The definition information for colovesical fistula is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
Examples of naturally occurring fistulas are those that form between the end of the bowel and skin near the anus (anal fistula) or between the intestine and the vagina (enterovaginal fistula). Fistulas may also form between the rectum and the vagina and this is called a rectovaginal fistula. Although fistulas are usually caused by injury or surgery, they may also form after an infection has led to severe inflammation.
Colovesical fistula. Definition. noun. (1) An abnormal connection (or passageway) between colon and urinary bladder. (2) A form of vesicointestinal fistula located between the large intestine and urinary bladder. Supplement. Normally the urinary system is not connected to the alimentary canal. However, certain conditions may result in a fistula between them, in this case, between colon and the urinary bladder.
These fistulas may form a connection between the bladder and the vagina (vesicovaginal), the skin of the abdomen (vesicocutaneous), or the intestinal tract. Fistulas that connect to any part of the intestine are collectively referred to as vesicoenteric fistulas. Fistulas between the bladder and intestine can occur at the colon (colovesical, most common), rectum (rectovesical), ileum (ileovesical), or the appendix (appendicovesical). The result of any of these conditions is a free exchange of fluids between the bladder and the area connected by the fistula