For instance, while the ADEA requires payroll records to be kept for three years, it requires basic information about the employee to be kept only one year, according to the EEOC. To ensure your business meets all its recordkeeping retention requirements, consult a qualified employment law attorney.
Since employees may come and go, you may wonder how long you should hang on to the employee records. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) weighs in on records pertaining to employee taxes, such as payroll, but the other records depend on what types of records you have for employees.
Under U.S. federal law, employers must keep the payroll records of their employees or former employees for a certain length of time. The amount of time, however, varies according to which statute you refer to, which can make knowing how long to keep employee records confusing.
Do you mean how long do they need to keep individual time cards...clearly a base payroll record....but worthless after no time...and it would cost zillions in storage fees to keep them very long. So, they really need to keep them for as long as anyone involved might care. As a rule of thumb, 7 to 10 years is standard.
IRS payroll tax-related records-keep these records for at least four years following the period covered by the records. Common Law Requirements. There are no common law requirements as such for how long employers should keep certain kinds of records.
Recordkeeping Requirements. EEOC Regulations require that employers keep all personnel or employment records for one year. If an employee is involuntarily terminated, his/her personnel records must be retained for one year from the date of termination. Under ADEA recordkeeping requirements, employers must also keep all payroll records for three years.
Age-discrimination documentation (ADEA) - keep payroll records for at least three years, and any other documents relating to personnel actions for at least one year, or during the pendency of a claim or lawsuit. OSHA records-keep OSHA-related records for at least five years.
In the case of employment records, the IRS guidelines say to keep the records for a minimum of four years after you pay the tax or the tax is due, whichever of the two dates is later. Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years.