How to call Bermuda from United States: 1 - United States exit code. 441 - Bermuda area code. 1 + 441 + Local Number-Overall dialing code format. Note: Bermuda and United States are both members of NANP (North American Numbering Plan) so when calling between these countries, 1 is used in place of the country exit code.
To call Bermuda from the US, just follow these dialing instructions. Since Bermuda is considered a part of the North American Numbering Plan, there’s no need to dial the US exit code, 011. 1  Dial 1, the Bermuda country code. 2  Next, dial 441, the Bermuda area code. 3  Then, dial the 7-digit phone number
This page details Bermuda phone code. The Bermuda country code 1-441 will allow you to call Bermuda from another country. Bermuda telephone code 1-441 is dialed after the IDD. Bermuda international dialing 1-441 is followed by an area code. The Bermuda area code table below shows the various city codes for Bermuda. Bermuda country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Bermuda dialing code, you can make your international call
Calling United States From Bermuda-Direct Dialing Numbers. To make a direct call to United States From Bermuda, you need to follow the international dialing format given in the box below. The dialing format is same for calling United States mobile or land line from Bermuda. There are 291 area codes in United States. You need to know the United States Area Codes to make an international call to United States from Bermuda. Area Code. 011 - 1 - 916 - TEL #. * Ignore the number within bracket while calling United States from another country.
Given below is the dialing procedure to call United States From Bermuda. You will find information on how to make an international call from Bermuda to United States fixed line number or mobile number. There are 291 area codes in United States. You need to know the United States Area Codes to make an international call to United States from Bermuda. Area Code. 011 - 1 - 916 - TEL #. * Ignore the number within bracket while calling United States from another country.
1 011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada. 2  Phone Number (may not begin with 0): 3  landlines-area code (2 to 5 digits) + local number total 10 digits. 4  cell phones - 10 digits. 5  sample call from US to a London landline: 
Follow the above dialing format while making a call From Bermuda to United States. 1  Bermuda and United States are part of the North American Numbering Plan (NANP). 2  All NANP countries have country code 1. 3  The general procedure for calling a NANP country is 1 + Area code (3 digits) + TEL # (7 digit). There are 291 area codes in United States. You need to know the United States Area Codes to make an international call to United States from Bermuda. Area Code. 011 - 1 - 916 - TEL #. * Ignore the number within bracket while calling United States from another country.
Not to be confused with 'country calling codes'. An international call prefix or dial out code is a trunk prefix used to select an international telephone circuit for placing an international call. The prefix must be dialed before the country calling code and the destination telephone number. It is synonymous with international access code or exit code. The international call prefix is part of the telephone numbering plan of a country for calls to another country.
Our International Dialing Code finder will help you find the dialing and area codes for a large selection of countries and cities. If your place is not listed, find a nearby city, in the same country. 