Country. For nearly 60 years, Bashful Brother Oswald was one of the most influential and talented dobro players in country music. For the majority of his career, he was the dobroist for Roy Acuff's Smoky Mountain Boys, becoming the leading player in country, as well as one of the most popular members of the band.
Biography. For nearly 60 years, Bashful Brother Oswald was one of the most influential and talented dobro players in country music. For the majority of his career, he was the dobroist for Roy Acuff's Smoky Mountain Boys, becoming the leading player in country, as well as one of the most popular members of the band.
Beecher Ray Kirby (December 26, 1911–October 17, 2002), better known as Bashful Brother Oswald, was an American country musician who popularized the use of the resonator guitar and Dobro. He played with Roy Acuff's Smoky Mountain Boys and was a member of the Grand Ole Opry.
read more. Beecher Ray Kirby (December 26, 1911–October 17, 2002), better known as Bashful Brother Oswald, was an American country musician who popularized the use of the resonator guitar and Dobro. He played with Roy Acuff and was a member of the Grand Ole Opry.
He was 90. Renowned dobro player Bashful Brother Oswald died yesterday (Oct. 17) in Nashville after a lengthy illness. He was 90. Although only a member of the Grand Ole Opry since 1995, Oswald played on the Opry stage for more than half a century as a member of Roy Acuff's Smoky Mountain Boys.
Bashful Brother Oswald (born Beecher Ray Kirby) was the son of an Appalachian musician. As a child, he learned how to play dobro and banjo, as well as to sing gospel music. When he was a teenager, he began playing square dances with various country groups.
For nearly 60 years, Bashful Brother Oswald was one of the most influential and talented dobro players in country music. For the majority of his career, he was the dobroist for Roy Acuff's Smoky Mountain….
Pete Bashful Brother Oswald Kirby joined Roy Acuff 's Smoky Mountain Boys in January of 1939. His dobro playing and comedic persona were staples of both Acuff 's band and the Grand Ole Opry.