Alabama State University founded in 1867 as the Lincoln Normal School of Marion in Marion. In December 1873, the State Board accepted the transfer of title to the school after a legislative act was passed authorizing the state to fund a Normal School, and George N. Card was named President. In 1878, the second president, William Paterson, was appointed. He is honored as a founder of Alabama State University and was the president for 37 of the first 48 years of its existence. Paterson was instrumental in the move from Marion to Montgomery in 1887.
Alabama State University, founded 1867, is a historically black university located in Montgomery, Alabama. ASU is a member-school of the Thurgood Marshall College Fund. In 1878, the second president, William Paterson, was appointed. He is honored as a founder of Alabama State University and was the president for 37 of the first 48 years of its existence. Paterson was instrumental in the move from Marion to Montgomery in 1887.
Audemus jura nostra defendere has been translated as: We Dare Maintain Our Rights or We Dare Defend Our Rights.. This Latin phrase is on the state coat of arms completed in 1923. 
At the same time, the state legislature adopted an Alabama Coat-of-Arms along with a new state motto: Audemus Jura Nostra Defendere, translated as We Dare Maintain Our Rights.. Act No. 140, to adopt an official Coat-of-Arms for the State of Alabama was approved on March 14, 1939. Beneath the shield there shall be a scroll containing the sentence in Latin:  Audemus jura nostra defendere , the English interpretation of which is  We Dare Maintain Our Rights. . The word Alabama shall appear beneath the state motto.
Contrary to many Latin mottos this motto did not start out as Latin but initially came about in the English language ( We Dare Defend our Rights ), then was later translated into the Latin motto:  Audemus jura nostra defendere  by W. B. Saffold, a Professor at the University of Alabama. Whereas the motto of Alabama intends to describe the 'soul' of Alabama with patriotism at heart, Alabama state slogans focus especially on attracting tourists and as you will see, some slogans are more serious in nature than others: Share the Wonder.
See Alabama Coat of Arms.  Audemus jura nostra defendere has been translated as: We Dare Maintain Our Rights or We Dare Defend Our Rights.. This Latin phrase is on Alabama state coat of arms completed in 1923. It was adopted in 1939 as Alabama state motto. Beneath the shield there shall be a scroll containing the sentence in Latin:  Audemus jura nostra defendere , the English interpretation of which is  We Dare Maintain Our Rights. . The word Alabama shall appear beneath the
The motto of Alabama State University is 'When we teach class, the world takes note.'. The motto of Pangasinan State University is 'Visus, Receptum, Sponsio'.
We Dare Defend our RightsThe official state motto of Alabama is We Dare Defend our Rights (Audemus jura nostra defendere). Audemus jura nostra defendere which has been … translated as: We Dare Maintain Our Rights or We Dare Defend Our Rights.. This Latin phrase is on the state coat of arms completed in 1923. The motto of Pangasinan State University is 'Visus, Receptum, Sponsio'.
We Dare Defend our Rights. The idea for Alabama's state motto came from Marie Bankhead Owen of the Alabama Department of Archives and History while searching for a phrase to be put on the state coat of arms (completed in 1923). The motto was inspired by a poem by the 18th-century author Sir William Jones which includes the stanza:
Audemus Jura Nostra Defendere (Official). The English translation of the Alabama state motto: We Dare Defend our Rights or We Dare Maintain our Rights is derived from a poem by 18th century author Sir William Jones: Whereas the motto of Alabama intends to describe the 'soul' of Alabama with patriotism at heart, Alabama state slogans focus especially on attracting tourists and as you will see, some slogans are more serious in nature than others: Share the Wonder.