If you’ve taken time to check out newer model homes in the Phoenix area, you’ll see that building a casita or guest room is a growing trend. By definition, a casita is either an attached or detached single bedroom suite, that often has its own full bath, and in many cases mini-kitchen areas.
1 Another popular way of building a guest house for friends and family members that visit or stay with you in Phoenix is to build a detached casita, also known as a mother-in-law apartment. 2  This method tends to be an easier option for home owners as you are simply building a secondary building on your existing property.
If you are interested in multigenerational living in Paradise Valley, Phoenix, Scottsdale or other areas throughout Arizona, please contact TraVek Inc today. We will set you up with a free home estimate and explain to you in detail the many benefits a casita or multigenerational living extension can provide for you.
1 Building a detached casita. 2  Another popular way of building a guest house for friends and family members that visit or stay with you in Phoenix is to build a detached casita, also known as a mother-in-law apartment.
Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost of adding a room or building an addition is $40,960, with most homeowners spending between $21,711 and $63,014. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members.
Adding a casita could be a wise investment. In most situations a casita can gain a very high return in equity. A casita can have many uses such as housing aging relatives, providing guest quarters, game rooms, office space, rentals or anything else you desire. We have three styles to choose from. These styles can be altered to meet your needs and the look of your home.
Single-family homes vary widely in quality and quality of construction is a major cost variable. In the table below, click in one of six columns for each of ten categories. Class 1 construction is the most expensive commonly encountered and Class 6 is the minimum required under most building codes.