Tetanus, also known as lockjaw, is an infection characterized by muscle spasms. In the most common type the spasms begin in the jaw and then progress to the rest of the body. These spasms usually last a few minutes each time and occur frequently for three to four weeks. The shorter the incubation period, the more severe the symptoms. In neonatal tetanus, symptoms usually appear from 4 to 14 days after birth, averaging about 7 days. On the basis of clinical findings, four different forms of tetanus have been described.
Tetanus: Introduction. Tetanus: Tetanus (sometimes called lockjaw) is caused by the toxin (poison) of a bacterium. The bacteria can enter the body through a tiny ... more about Tetanus. Tetanus: A disease caused by chemicals which are produced by a bacterium (clostridium tetani) and are toxic to the nerves. The infection usually occurs when the bacteria enter the body through a deep wound-these bacteria are anaerobic and hence don't need oxygen to survive. 
There are currently no blood tests for diagnosing tetanus. The diagnosis is based on the presentation of tetanus symptoms and does not depend upon isolation of the bacterium, which is recovered from the wound in only 30% of cases and can be isolated from patients without tetanus. The shorter the incubation period, the more severe the symptoms. In neonatal tetanus, symptoms usually appear from 4 to 14 days after birth, averaging about 7 days. On the basis of clinical findings, four different forms of tetanus have been described.
Doctors can diagnose tetanus by examining the patient and looking for certain signs and symptoms. There are no hospital lab tests that can confirm tetanus. Tetanus is a medical emergency requiring: 1  Hospitalization. 2  Immediate treatment with human tetanus immune globulin (TIG) (or equine antitoxin). 3  Tetanus vaccine.
Tetanus is caused by an infection with the bacterium Clostridium tetani, which is commonly found in soil, dust and manure. The bacteria generally enter through a break in the skin such as a cut or puncture wound by a contaminated object. The shorter the incubation period, the more severe the symptoms. In neonatal tetanus, symptoms usually appear from 4 to 14 days after birth, averaging about 7 days. On the basis of clinical findings, four different forms of tetanus have been described.
Tetanus toxoid was assessed as a skin test antigen for the measurement of cutaneous delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) by comparing the responses to intradermal injections of aqueous tetanus toxoid and an extract of Candida albicans in 50 randomly selected healthy adults and 10 adults with immunodeficiency. Tetanus toxoid in previously immunised subjects has certain advantages as a recall DTH test antigen over the standard skin test antigens candidin, mumps, trichophyton, tuberculin and streptokinase-streptodornase used to diagnose cell-mediated immuno-
A A. Tetanus is caused by the microorganism Bacillus Clostridium Tetani. These bacteria thrive on wounds and cuts and produce a toxin that is responsible for tetanus. Tetanus Symptoms & Diagnosis: It is not easy to diagnose tetanus. Most physicians diagnose tetanus based on these symptoms: muscle spasm, pain, stiffness, sweating, headache, irritability, and lockjaw. Tetanus progresses in stages and tetanus symptoms generally start with lockjaw, followed by muscle spasms, sweating, and headache. In this test, a soft-tipped instrument is used to touch the pharyngeal area and the patient’s response is noted: Involuntary contraction of the jaw indicates tetanus. If the physical symptoms and symptom progression indicate tetanus, laboratory tests such as a blood test can be performed to confirm tetanus diagnosis.
Tetanus is a disease caused by infection with Clostridium tetani, a dangerous bacterium that is present in soil and feces. Infection with the bacteria leads to the development of dangerous neurotoxin, known as tetanospasmin, that can spread throughout the entire body and cause widespread general muscle spasms. Symptoms. The symptoms of tetanus vary depending on the severity of the infection. The response to infection from the bacteria varies, and symptoms may occur anywhere from two days after exposure to up to four weeks. On average, the incubation period for tetanus is generally one week.
1 Laboratory tests are rarely used to diagnose tetanus. 2  However, some reference labs can determine if the patient has serum antitoxin levels that are protective, and thus a positive test detecting these levels suggests that the diagnosis of tetanus is unlikely. 