1 Some bacteria are also helpful in cleaning oil spills. 2  Some bacteria are used in the production of antibiotics like streptomycin and tetracycline. 3  Streptomyces are soil bacteria used in the commercial production of antibiotics and are hence used in many well-known pharmaceutical industries. 1 They are used to breakdown the organic material into methane gas. 2  Hence they are used in many industries. 3  Some bacteria are also helpful in cleaning oil spills. 4
The vast majority of the bacteria in the body are rendered harmless by the protective effects of the immune system, and some are beneficial. However, several species of bacteria are pathogenic and cause infectious diseases, including cholera, syphilis, anthrax, leprosy, and bubonic plague. Bacteria, often lactic acid bacteria, such as Lactobacillus and Lactococcus, in combination with yeasts and molds, have been used for thousands of years in the preparation of fermented foods, such as cheese, pickles, soy sauce, sauerkraut, vinegar, wine and yogurt.
Both viruses and bacteria can cause disease. However, not all types of viruses cause disease in humans, and not all bacteria cause disease. The majority of bacteria are harmless and some are beneficial. Another common misconception is that all bacteria are bad for you. Confusingly, certain bacteria can be beneficial to some animals, and pathogenic to others. More commonly, pathogenic bacteria are harmful only to a limited number of hosts, or even only to one, whereas they live happily within other hosts without causing trouble.
Two ways that bacteria are helpful is that bacteria is used in the production of some foods such as cheese, pickles, butter, yogurt, sour cream, and chocolate. Without bacteri … a, pizza would not be possible. Bacteria is helpful because it can be used to create antibiotics. Also bacteria, including E.Coli helps us, by making a number of vitamins that the body cannot produce. Bacterias can also be helpful in many fun reasons we do not even think of. It is almost EVERYWHERE. It helps make chocolate and other fun foods.
Probiotics-- often called friendly or good bacteria-- are live, lactic-acid producing microorganisms that are similar to those found in the human digestive tract. These beneficial bacteria are associated with numerous health benefits. 
Article Summary: Bacteria is the most useful microorganism in the environment and beneficial for human beings. But it also has some harmful effects on human body.... The planet earth is full of bacteria and they play an important role in the different functions whether they are related to humans, animals or plants. Bacteria are the part of the environment and ecosystem. Almost all types of bacteria are helpful to mankind except few species which cause diseases in the human body. There are various functions and characteristics of bacteria which work either against or for the
Some beneficial bacteria to humans are helpful in maintaining the pH of the body. Some are even involved in protecting the skin from many infections. They are also helpful in the production of vitamin K and have an important role to play in the functioning of immune system. 1 They are used to breakdown the organic material into methane gas. 2  Hence they are used in many industries. 3  Some bacteria are also helpful in cleaning oil spills. 4  Some bacteria are used in the production of antibiotics like streptomycin and tetracycline.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There are numerous bacteria found normally in and on the body that occupy many anatomic areas for most of our lives. They are called the normal bacterial flora and are generally as important to our good health as all the beneficial bacteria that usually get all the limelight. 
Good bacteria, also called probiotics, are similar to bacteria that reside naturally in your body. Probiotics may be beneficial to your health, and they are available in yogurt or in various dietary supplements, according to the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. Lactobacillus. There are more than 80 species of the Lactobacillus genus of probiotics. One of these species, acidophilus, is the most frequently used good bacterium, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center.