1 Whole blood donation takes approximately 45 to 60 minutes. 2  Donating plasma or platelets (called apheresis or automated donation) takes about 1 1/2 to two hours. 3  The Mayo Clinic Blood Donor Center in Rochester provides televisions, video on demand and wireless Internet access for donors to use during donations. 1 You can donate whole blood as often as every 84 days at the Mayo Clinic Blood Donor Center in Rochester. 2  Plasma donors may donate as often as every 28 days. 3  Platelets donors may donate as frequently as every eight days, and up to 24 times in a 12-month period.
(For a whole blood donation, it is about 8-10 minutes. If you are donating platelets, red cells or plasma by apheresis the collection can take up to 2 hours.). When approximately a pint of blood has been collected, the donation is complete and a staff person will place a bandage on your arm. Your gift of blood may help up to three people. Donated red blood cells do not last forever. They have a shelf-life of up to 42 days. A healthy donor may donate every 56 days.
The entire process takes about one hour and 15 minutes; the actual donation of a pint of whole blood unit takes eight to 10 minutes. However, the time varies slightly with each person depending on several factors including the donor’s health history and attendance at the blood drive. Your gift of blood may help up to three people. Donated red blood cells do not last forever. They have a shelf-life of up to 42 days. A healthy donor may donate every 56 days.
When donating platelets, the whole process takes approximately two hours. The blood donation itself usually takes 5-10 minutes for whole blood, 25 minutes for double red cell donation and 60-90 minutes for platelet donation. They can take two weeks or longer to fully return to normal. You can donate platelets (apheresis donation) every two weeks – up to 24 times in 12 months. Platelet and plasma components are regenerated in the body more quickly than red cells. Platelets will return to normal levels within 24-48 hours of donating.
Automated donations take longer than whole blood donations. Platelets take one to two hours to donate, plasma takes about an hour, and red blood cells take about 30 minutes. Allow approximately 45 minutes for your visit if you are donating whole blood; however, the blood donation process only takes 10-15 minutes. The actual platelet donation time takes between 1 to 1.5 hours.
1 Double red cell donations take approximately 30 minutes longer than a whole blood donation and allow you to give two units of red cells. 2  Available in most donation centers and some blood drives. 3  Donors are eligible to give double red cells every 112 days. 4  Learn More about Double Red Cell Donations ». 1 This type of blood donation usually takes about an hour, though the actual donation takes about 8-10 minutes. 2  You are eligible to donate 'whole blood' every 56 days.
1 The blood is separated into transfusable components – red cells, plasma, platelets and/or cryoprecipitated AHF. 2  This type of blood donation usually takes about an hour, though the actual donation takes about 8-10 minutes. 3  You are eligible to donate 'whole blood' every 56 days. 1 This type of blood donation usually takes about an hour, though the actual donation takes about 8-10 minutes. 2
Whole blood donors can donate every 56 days. Red blood cells are the oxygen carrying cells. They can take two weeks or longer to fully return to normal. You can donate platelets (apheresis donation) every two weeks – up to 24 times in 12 months. Platelet and plasma components are regenerated in the body more quickly than red cells. Platelets will return to normal levels within 24-48 hours of donating.
You must wait at least eight weeks (56 days) between donations of whole blood and 16 weeks (112 days) between double red cell donations. Platelet apheresis donors may give every 7 days up to 24 times per year. Regulations are different for those giving blood for themselves (autologous donors). Your gift of blood may help up to three people. Donated red blood cells do not last forever. They have a shelf-life of up to 42 days. A healthy donor may donate every 56 days.
The answer to how long does it take to donate blood depends on various factors. Whole blood donation takes approximately 45 to 60 minutes. Actually, a standard whole blood collection only takes 5-10 minutes, but there are several procedures that are associated with it. Once the blood has been drawn, it is recommended that the donator rest for a minimum period of fifteen minutes, as the loss of blood may cause dizziness. How long does it take to donate blood time period also includes the time of rest as well as energy replenishment.