As a natural fiber, inulin provides a number of important health benefits, such as help in preventing constipation, lowering cholesterol levels, and promoting good bacteria (probiotics) in the intestinal tract.
Inulin is a starchy substance found in a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, including wheat, onions, bananas, leeks, artichokes, and asparagus. The inulin that is used for medicine is most commonly obtained by soaking chicory roots in hot water.
Holds the line on cholesterol and triglycerides. Inulin keeps your cholesterol down like other soluble fibers, such as beta-glucan in oats. That’s because inulin changes the population of bacteria in your intestines, which in turn affects how cholesterol is made.
To examine the lipid-lowering potential of inulin and especially its effect on bile acid metabolism, male golden Syrian hamsters were fed semipurified diets containing 20 g/100 g fat, 0.12 g/100 g cholesterol and 0 (control), 8, 12 or 16% inulin for 5 wk.
Dietary inulin lowers plasma cholesterol and triacylglycerol and alters biliary bile acid profile in hamsters. Trautwein EA, Rieckhoff D, Erbersdobler HF. Institute of Human Nutrition and Food Science, University of Kiel, 24105 Kiel, Germany.
Because it has a smooth and creamy texture, it has been called the stealth fiber, and it works well as a replacement for fat. Like other high-fiber foods, inulin prevents constipation, helps maintain a healthy balance of good bacteria in the colon, and helps lower cholesterol levels. It can also be used as a sweetener in processed foods-its sweetening power is one-tenth that of sucrose.
However it works to balance your blood sugar, cholesterol, and weight, inulin is a good addition to your diabetes diet. While a common source of inulin is chicory root, long used as a coffee substitute, you’ll also find it in leeks, onions, garlic, bananas, asparagus, wheat, and Jerusalem artichokes.
Dietary inulin specifically decreased VLDL cholesterol, which was significantly lower in hamsters fed 16% inulin compared with controls (1.1 +/- 0.3 vs. 2.9 +/- 0.6 mmol/L). LDL and HDL cholesterol were not significantly affected by dietary inulin. Plasma triacylglycerol was significantly reduced by 40 and 63% in hamsters fed 12 and 16% inulin, respectively.