Meaning of Lester. English name. In English, the name Lester means-from town of leicester.The name Lester originated as an English name. The name Lester is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-from town of leicester. Origin-England
Presented below is the baby name popularity of Lester for boys. Lester reached its top position of #54 in the U.S. in the 1900s, but is not ranked at the moment. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014). Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of Lester and related names. Lester is a very prominent first name for men (#194 out of 1220, Top 16%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#709 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census)
You can find out where the majority of the Lester families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
Latin Meaning: The name Lester is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lester is: From the Legion's camp. American Meaning: The name Lester is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lester is: From the Legion's camp.
Lester is one of the British surname names that were popular in the US in the early decades of the twentieth century: it was in the Top 100 through 1931, reaching a high of Number 52 in 1906. 
[ 2 syll. les-ter, le-st-er ] The baby boy name Lester is sometimes used as a girl name. It is pronounced as L EH ST-er †. Lester is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Old English origins. It is derived from the elements 'Ligora' ; 'caester' meaning Roman fort. The first name is from the surname, which is itself of the English place name now known as Leicester. The old form of the place name was known as 'Ligora caester' in the 10th century; 'Ligora' was possibly a tribal name, but its origin is obscure. The first name was initially used in the mid 19th century. Leicester, Lestar, Lestir, Lestor, Lestur, and Lestyr are variants of Lester. 
Lester /le-ster/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced LES-ter. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Lester is from Leicester. Place name: an area in central England. Kreatif forms: Lesterra, Lesterre, Lesterri. Lester is a very prominent first name for men (#194 out of 1220, Top 16%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#709 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census)
Lester is an ancient Anglo-Saxon surname, first found in Cheshire, England. It originated from an original family living in Leicester, England and is derived from the concatenation of an Old English tribal name Ligore and the Old English word ceaster meaning Roman Town or Walled City. Lester may refer to: 
From a surname which was derived from the name of the city of Leicester, originally denoting a person who was from that place. The city's name is derived from the river name Ligore combined with Latin castra camp. Related Names. 