Eurobonds are named after the currency they are denominated in. For example, Euroyen and Eurodollar bonds are denominated in Japanese yen and American dollars respectively. Eurobonds were originally in bearer bond form, payable to the bearer and were also free of withholding tax. The first Eurobonds were issued in 1963 by Italian motorway network Autostrade, who issued 60,000 bearer bonds at a value of USD250 each for a fifteen-year loan of USD15m, paying an annual coupon of 5.5%. The issue was arranged by London bankers S. G. Warburg. and listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
The majority of Eurobonds are now owned in 'electronic' rather than physical form. The bonds are held and traded within one of the clearing systems (Euroclear and Clearstream being the most common). Coupons are paid electronically via the clearing systems to the holder of the Eurobond (or their nominee account). The first Eurobonds were issued in 1963 by Italian motorway network Autostrade, who issued 60,000 bearer bonds at a value of USD250 each for a fifteen-year loan of USD15m, paying an annual coupon of 5.5%. The issue was arranged by London bankers S. G. Warburg. and listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
As the world of business becomes more global, so does the world of finance. Companies now raise money -- debt and equity -- outside their own national borders and in foreign currencies, tapping investors for needed cash all around the world. Eurobonds are one method of financing a company with foreign money. By definition, Eurobonds are bonds that are issued in a currency that is not the domestic currency of the issuer. The name Eurobond broadly applies to bonds in foreign currency, regardless of the actual currency in which it is issued. In recent history, some of the largest American companies have raised financing abroad to tap into lower interest rates
DEFINITION of 'Eurobond'. A bond issued in a currency other than the currency of the country or market in which it is issued. Usually, a eurobond is issued by an international syndicate and categorized according to the currency in which it is denominated. A eurodollar bond that is denominated in U.S. dollars and issued in Japan by an Australian company would be an example of a eurobon
A Eurobond is an international bond that is denominated in a currency not native to the country where it is issued. Also called external bond; external bonds which, strictly, are neither Eurobonds nor foreign bonds would also include: foreign currency denominated domestic bonds. . .. It can be categorised according to the currency in which it is issued. The first Eurobonds were issued in 1963 by Italian motorway network Autostrade, who issued 60,000 bearer bonds at a value of USD250 each for a fifteen-year loan of USD15m, paying an annual coupon of 5.5%. The issue was arranged by London bankers S. G. Warburg. and listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
Eurobonds are not regulated by the country of the currency in which they are denominated. Eurobonds are so-called “bearer bonds”, they are not registered anywhere centrally, so whomever holds or bears the bond is considered the owner. Their “bearer” status also enables Eurobonds to be held anonymously. The Eurobond market is largely a wholesale, institutional market with bonds held by large institutions. Eurobonds. The name Eurobonds can be misleading because from the word, you’d think either Eurobonds were about the European bond markets, or about the European currency, Euros.
Eurobonds are actually bonds that are denominated in a currency other than that of the country in which they are issued. They are usually issued in more than one country of issue and traded across international financial centres. Supranational organisations and corporations are major issuers in the Eurobond market. Eurobonds. The name Eurobonds can be misleading because from the word, you’d think either Eurobonds were about the European bond markets, or about the European currency, Euros.
BREAKING DOWN 'Eurobond'. Usually, a eurobond is issued by an international syndicate and categorized according to the currency in which it is denominated. A eurodollar bond that is denominated in U.S. dollars and issued in Japan by an Australian company would be an example of a eurobond
A bond that is (1) underwritten by an international syndicate, (2) issued simultaneously to investors in a number of countries, and (3) issued outside the jurisdiction of any single country. Eurobonds are often bearer bonds. A type of foreign bond issued and traded in countries other than the one in which the bond is denominated. A dollar-denominated bond sold in Europe by a U.S. firm is a Eurobond.