1 of or relating to the open sea ⇒ ■ pelagic whaling. ( 2 of marine life) living or occurring in the upper waters of open sea.
Pelagic fish inhabit the water column (not near the bottom or the shore) of coasts, open oceans, and lakes. Oceanic pelagic fish, such as the tuna pictured above, have agile bodies made for long distance migration. Many oceanic pelagic fish travel in schools while some are solitary that drift with ocean currents.
1.1 (Chiefly of fish) inhabiting the upper layers of the open sea: there are very few pelagic fish to be seen Often contrasted with demersal. More example sentences. 1  Adult beluga sturgeon are mainly piscivores, swimming at middle depths and preying mostly on pelagic fish species.
1 Trends. 2  of or relating to the open sea ⇒ ■ pelagic whaling. ( 3 of marine life) living or occurring in the upper waters of open sea. ( 4 of geological formations) derived from material that has fallen to the bottom from the upper waters of the sea.
Example sentences. 1  The Northern Gannet is a large pelagic bird that only comes ashore to breed. 2  Whales have been scarce, and the pelagic birds are feeding close to shore. 3  Usually you can expect to see great numbers of pelagic birds-gannets, shearwaters, jaegers, storm-petrels, alcids-that live mainly at sea.
adjective. 1  of or relating to the open sea ⇒ ■ pelagic whaling. ( 2 of marine life) living or occurring in the upper waters of open sea. ( 3 of geological formations) derived from material that has fallen to the bottom from the upper waters of the sea.
A pelagic fish or bird. Example sentences. 1  Turtles, large shoals of fish and pelagics including hammerhead, sharks, manta rays and whale sharks are often encountered. 2  But we are also worried because in order to feed these tuna the industry needs other fleets which should fish for the small pelagics to be fed to tuna.
Pelagic Zone. that part of a lake, sea, or ocean that is the habitat of pelagic organisms—plankton, necton, and pleuston. The pelagic zone is opposed to the benthic zone, that is, the bottom of the body of water, which is inhabited by benthos. In oceans and seas, the pelagic zone is divided horizontally into two regions: the neritic (water above the shelf) and the oceanic (all the remaining water).