Since mangrove trees grows along coastal areas, they live in  places where there is little oxygen in the soil and much amount of  salt. Thus mangrove trees have to adapt ver … y well to live in this  place where other trees would die instantly due to the abundant  salt and strong currents and shortage of oxygen.
Mangroves can live in salt water and are able to keep the salt content lower than the salt content in the soil. They accomplish this with several methods: secreting salt through salt glands; secreting salt through their roots; thick leaves with a waxy covering; facultative halophytes.
Mangroves live life on the edge. With one foot on land and one in the sea, these botanical amphibians occupy a zone of desiccating heat, choking mud, and salt levels that would kill an ordinary plant within hours. Yet the forests mangroves form are among the most productive and biologically complex ecosystems on Earth.
These are mangroves—shrub and tree species that live along shores, rivers, and estuaries in the tropics and subtropics. Mangroves are remarkably tough. Most live on muddy soil, but some also grow on sand, peat, and coral rock. They live in water up to 100 times saltier than most other plants can tolerate.
Crocodiles laze in the salt water. There are about 70 species of mangroves, ranging from sprawling shrubs to trees that stand 60 meters (200 feet) high and provide habitats for organisms large and small. All are adapted to living in shallow seawater. Some can live in places nearly three times saltier than the sea.
There are 80 described species of mangroves, 60 of which live exclusively on coasts between the high-and low-tide lines. Mangroves once covered three-quarters of the world's tropical coastlines, with Southeast Asia hosting the greatest diversity. Only 12 species live in the Americas.
Mangroves are a group of trees and shrubs that live in the coastal intertidal zone. Mangrove forest in Loxahatchee, Florida. There are about 80 different species of mangrove trees. All of these trees grow in areas with low-oxygen soil, where slow-moving waters allow fine sediments to accumulate.
1 A third strategy used by some mangrove species is to concentrate salt in older leaves or bark. 2  When the leaves drop or the bark sheds, the stored salt goes with them. 3  hoard fresh water: Like desert plants, mangroves store fresh water in thick succulent leaves.