Prior to 2010, couples could only divorce if they had fault grounds or if the couple was separated for at least a year. Fault grounds, such as adultery or cruelty, placed the blame for the breakdown of the marriage on one spouse. Couples in New York may now divorce if the marriage is irretrievably broken. The new grounds do not place blame on either spouse, and do not require a year of separation, but the divorce complaint must state that the marriage has been broken for at least six months.
Once you have an agreement, you can possibly receive a divorce the day after the waiting period expires. This can be as quickly as 20 days in Florida and 30 days in Georgia, to as long as 18 months in some states. In such situations, you can usually be divorced immediately, as soon as you’ve met your state’s waiting requirement. Other spouses file for divorce and then attempt to begin hammering out an agreement. This process of negotiating can take several months to a year or more, depending on how contentious your matter is.
In Texas, a divorce cannot be final for at least 60 days after the petition is filed. The divorce is final as soon as the judge pronounces it so in open court and signs the decree of divorce. 
1. How long does it take to get a divorce in Tennessee?2. My divorce is uncontested; can one attorney handle our case to save on costs?3. How much will a divorce cost in Tennessee?4. What is the process for getting divorced in Tennessee?5. An uncontested divorce with nothing left to work out, no real property, and no minor children will cost anywhere from $150-$1500 depending on the attorney. In a contested divorce, it is more difficult to estimate fees because of the uncertainty of how much work will need to be done on the case.
Some states impose waiting periods after the filing of a complaint or petition for divorce and before the court can grant a final decree. Even if you have a settlement agreement going in, you usually must wait out this time. In such situations, you can usually be divorced immediately, as soon as you’ve met your state’s waiting requirement. Other spouses file for divorce and then attempt to begin hammering out an agreement. This process of negotiating can take several months to a year or more, depending on how contentious your matter is.
State: Georgia. Answer: A divorce in Georgia can be granted as soon as 30 days after the date of filing. However, the final decree will not be granted until all the l issues including child custody, child support, alimony and property division have been resolved. A complicated and contested divorce can take years to become final. 
Once the papers have been filed with the court, the question, How long does an uncontested divorce take? is completely out of the parties' hands. The amount of time it will take to finalize the divorce by having a judge approve and sign the judgment can take anywhere from six weeks to 12 months. 
The following table provides the waiting period for a divorce decree for all 50 states. Not all states have a required waiting period after divorce; the time before your divorce decree is final may simply be based on how long it takes for the divorce court to hear the case. 
When a divorce is contested, the process will be considerably longer. After the initial complaint is filed, the spouse who filed has up to 120 days to serve the other spouse. After which, the other spouse has 20 days to respond to the divorce complaint. Couples in New York may now divorce if the marriage is irretrievably broken. The new grounds do not place blame on either spouse, and do not require a year of separation, but the divorce complaint must state that the marriage has been broken for at least six months.
On average, there is a zero to six month waiting period after the initial divorce petition is filed and served on the other spouse before a divorce becomes final. A judge may make a final ruling, or judgment, on the divorce prior to that date. This order will be effective immediately. However, the marriage is not finally dissolved, and the spouses may not re-marry, until after the waiting period. During the period between the judge's order and the expiration of the waiting period, any action taken by either spouse is a separate act.