The gastrocnemius branches at the top behind the knee; the two branches are known as the medial and lateral heads. The flexing of this muscle during walking and bending of the knee creates traction on the femur, pulling it toward the tibia in the lower leg and causing the knee to bend. Both the gastrocnemius and the soleus run the entire length of the lower leg, connecting behind the knee and at the heel. A third muscle, the plantaris muscle, extends two-to-four inches down from the knee and lies between the gastrocnemius and the soleus.
Soleus is the muscle that is located directly beneath the  gastrocnemius and has similar functions to the gastrocnemius. The  hamstrings muscles are a two joint muscle that … acts at the knee and  hip. 1 person found this useful. , LincMad. 
In humans, the gastrocnemius muscle (/ˌɡaestrɒkˈniːmiəs/ ˌɡæstrɒkˈniːmiəs /or/ ; ˌɡaestrəkˈniːmiəs ˌɡæstrəkˈniːmiəs; Plural, gastrocnemii Latin from greek γαστήρ stomach (and) κνήμη; knēmē leg meaning stomach, of leg referring to the bulging shape of) the calf is a very powerful superficial bipennate muscle that is in the back part of the. lower leg Structure [edit]. The gastrocnemius is located with the soleus in the posterior (back) compartment of the leg. The lateral head originates from the lateral condyle of the femur, while the medial head originates from the medial condyle of the femur.
Soleus. The soleus is the plantar flexor muscle of the ankle. It is capable of exerting powerful forces onto the ankle joint. It is located on the back of the lower leg and originates at the posterior (rear) aspect of the fibular head and the medial border of the tibial shaft. The soleus muscle forms the Achilles tendon when it inserts into the gastrocnemius aponeurosis. The tibial nerves S1 and S2 innervate it; arterial sources include the sural, peronial, and posterior tibial arteries.
Gastrocnemius. The gastrocnemius muscle is a muscle located on the back portion of the lower leg, being one of the two major muscles that make up the calf. The other major calf muscle, the soleus muscle, is a flat muscle that lies underneath the gastrocnemius. Both the gastrocnemius and the soleus run the entire length of the lower leg, connecting behind the knee and at the heel. A third muscle, the plantaris muscle, extends two-to-four inches down from the knee and lies between the gastrocnemius and the soleus.
Anatomy Chart courtesy of FCIT. The Gastrocnemius is the calf muscle that is visible from the outside of the body. It attaches to the heel with the Achilles Tendon and originates behind the knee on the femur, crossing two joints. The Gastrocnemius has two heads: the medial and the lateral. 
The soleus muscle is one of two muscles that are located at the back of the lower leg. Together with the gastrocnemius it makes up half of the muscle group known as the calf. The soleus is a powerful muscle but if it isn’t functioning correctly it can cause a number of conditions such as knee and ankle pain. 