This varies according to how much hair he grows. Some dogs (particularly Working Cockers) have a fairly sparse coat and fine feathering, others have thicker, longer hair and will need to be trimmed more often. On average, an adult Cocker will require trimming every 8 weeks or so. With patience and practice you will be able to trim your Cocker yourself and have the satisfaction of seeing him look smart. Trimming Booklet. The Cocker Spaniel Club supplies a small booklet which illustrates how you can hand trim your own Cocker.
You could begin at 200 grams per day and if your cocker spaniel begins putting on weight, either reduce the food allowance or increase his exercise. It really is as easy as that! My 4 year old cocker, who weighs 14 kilos, gets an allowance of 190 grams day-split into two meals. 
Report Abuse. Start with a small amount, you can actually over-walk a puppy. I'd say for 15 weeks, start with two 15 minute walks a day. Slowly, work your way up to an amount that works for your dog. Dogs will literally walk forever, they think they are doing a job and it can actually leave them over-exhausted. :) · 3 years ago
And like a previous post says A tired dog is a good dog.. My Springer is 8 years old. Definitely doesn't need as much exercise as he used to. And he probably never got as much as he needed. I'd say a young Springer is happy with 30 - 60 minutes a day. But they can run forever! They love to run and play. They do love a good run, and like a routine. My two (3 1/2 year old sisters) are exercised morning & afternoon every day, come rain or shine, before & after work. The look of contentment in the evening on their little faces says it all. They've always done this-and never chewed up at all, even as pups.
At this rate he is going to need 2 hours walks a day and i cant actually provide that much. He isa good boy tho, can leave him alone 4 hours (very rare though) and he will not chew a thing, yet if im home and ignoring him he will chew anything he can to get my attention :(. QUESTION: I have a lovely 9 month old working breed chocolate cocker spaniel. He is lovely and i adore him, fairly good with my kids. BUT.... hi is so hyper, 24/7. I try and give him an hours exercise a day, if possible off the lead so he can have a really good run.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Springers are beautiful, gorgeous dogs but they do need a reasonable amount of exercise. At the very minimum you should be looking at a 1/2 hour walk and 1/2 hour free run morning and night as well as at least 1/2 -1 hr free run/play during the day.
When your puppy reaches about 5 months old, you should be able to increase his walks to 15 minutes daily (or twice each day) - add a couple of minutes onto the walk each week until your puppy can easily handle 60 minutes. 
253. I have a working cocker and at two years of age she is still completely mental. 2-3 hours exercise a day keeps her moderately calm. Apart from that, she is wonderful-very loving and super with my 6 month old baby. I recommend the breed, but they are hard hard work. Member
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The beauty of Cockers is that they can handle a lot of exercise (mine 22 miles over the course of two days and she is 9!!) but can also do with less when the weather is crappy. However, they do need 2 walks a day, as does any dog. 