Recognition status, as metalloids, of some elements in the p-block of the periodic table. Percentages are median appearance frequencies in the list of metalloid lists. The staircase-shaped line is a typical example of the arbitrary metal–nonmetal dividing line found on some periodic tables. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.
Leave a reply. The metalloids or semimetals are a group of elements that contain properties of both metals and nonmetals. The highlighted elements are the metalloids.Metalloids, also known as semimetals are elements containing properties similar and midway between metals and nonmetals. They are found to divide the periodic table between the metals on the left and the nonmetals on the right. Metalloids often have the following properties: 1  could be dull or shiny. The highlighted elements are the metalloids. 
A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.
This property makes metalloids useful in computers and calculators The Metalloids are: Boron Silicon Germanium Arsenic Antimony Tellurium Polonium This website is copyright © 1996-2012 Yinon Bentor. Metalloids are the elements found along the stair-step line that distinguishes metals from non-metals. This line is drawn from between Boron and Aluminum to the border between Polonium and Astatine. The only exception to this is Aluminum, which is classified under Other Metals. Metalloids have properties of both metals and non-metals. Some of the metalloids, such as silicon and germanium, are semi-conductors.
The metalloids or semimetals are a group of elements that contain properties of both metals and nonmetals. The highlighted elements are the metalloids. Metalloids, also known as semimetals are elements containing properties similar and midway between metals and nonmetals. They are found to divide the periodic table between the metals on the left and the nonmetals on the right. Metalloids often have the following properties: 1  could be dull or shiny
On the basis of their general physical and chemical properties, nearly every element in the periodic table can be termed either a metal or a nonmetal. However, a few elements with intermediate properties are referred to as metalloids. They are sometimes called (and confused with) semiconductors and semimetals. The following elements are generally considered metalloids: Inclusion of polonium is somewhat academic because all its isotopes are radioactive.
The metalloids are a group of elements in the periodic table. They are located to the right of the post-transition metals and to the left of the non-metals. 
Metals Nonmetals and Metalloids-Periodic Table. This periodic table shows the difference between metals, metalloids and nonmetals. Photo Credit: Todd Helmenstine. Elements in the periodic table are grouped as metals, metalloids or semimetals, and nonmetals. The metalloids separate the metals and nonmetals on a periodic table. Also, many periodic table have a stair-step line on the table identifying the element groups. Elements to the left of the line are considered metals. Elements just to the right of the line exhibit properties of both metals and nonmetals and are termed metalloids or semimetals. Elements to the far right of the periodic table are nonmetals. The exception is hydrogen (H), the first element on the periodic table
Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other. Boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium are recognised commonly as metalloids. Depending on the author, one or more from selenium, polonium, or astatine sometimes are added to the list. Boron sometimes is excluded, by itself, or with silicon. Sometimes tellurium is not regarded as a metalloid.