Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: How to make a pound of honey Honey bees will tap about two million flowers and fly 50,000 miles (80,000 km) to make one pound (454 g) of honey. How can we prove this fact?
Female worker bees leave the hive and begin foraging for nectar and pollen at 3 weeks old. They will make honey for as long as nectar (flowers bloom) is available and Mother Nature cooperates, meaning sunny days with temperatures above 55-60 degrees. How far do bees fly to gather pollen/nectar? Honeybees will fly up to 3-4 miles to find, pollen, nectar, water (and resin to make propolis). 
Hive Location. While bees can fly up to two miles to find nectar and pollen, they do best with less travel time.. Bees can be kept almost anywhere; they do not have to be in a perfect spot. Choosing the best possible location, however, increases the chances for a strong, productive colony
Here's where the honey comes in. Bees fly from their hive to collect pollen, nectar, and propolis; all important resources for hive life. Their queen's pheromones are detectable from three miles away, so they may venture that far to forage. 
Last Updated: Jun 22, 2015 Views: 6089. The distance that a honeybee will fly to forage depends on the availability of desirable food sources and the competition from other colonies. But studies have shown honeybees will fly as much as 6 miles to visit a nectar source and will readily travel 2 miles. This article provides a more detailed discussion of this behavior. Ratnieks, F. L. W. 2000. How far do bees forage. Bee Improvement 6: 10-11 http://www.ioia.net/images/pdf/ratnieks2000.(1).pdf
However, in desert areas and other barren strips, monitored foraging bees were observed as far as 13.7 kilometers (Guesstimate about about 8 and half miles)from the hive. Generally, the pollen collectors forage much closer to the hive than the nectar collectors. Some bees, of course forage for both. 
How to Make a Pound of Honey. Honey bees will tap about two million flowers and fly 50,000 miles (80,000 km) to make one pound (454 g) of honey. For those who wonder how can we prove this fact, here is the calcuation. Calculation of honey production by one honey bee. Many facts are taken for granted and the proof is often lost in the mists of time. The distance of the foraging trip varies according to the location of the nectar source and the quantity of nectar secreted. Martin (1970) found that bees like to forage 4 km (2.5 miles) from the hive ranging over 12,500 acres.
How many flowers does a honey bee have to visit to gather a load of pollen? - 1500 flowers. How far does a hive of bees fly to bring you one pound of honey? - Over 55,000 miles How large an area does a honey bee have to cover to collect a load of pollen? - Approximately 12 square miles. Best Answer: How to make a pound of honey Honey bees will tap about two million flowers and fly 50,000 miles (80,000 km) to make one pound (454 g) of honey. How can we prove this fact?
Based on knowledge of how far bees fly to forage for nectar and pollen (as well as crop type), farmers can be advised about the number of colonies or bee boxes to site on their land, in order to improve crop yields. Pesticide Regulation. Farming And Food Production. 