Conductors are materials that pass electrical current easily, that is, with low resistance. Insulators are materials that do not pass electrical current easily, that is, they … have high resistance. Conductors are ordinarily metals, and insulators are ordinarily nonmetals. An electrical insulator is a material that resists electric current, and will not allow it to flow easily. Examples include glass and most ceramics. An electrical conductor … is a material that offers very little resistance to electric current, allowing it to flow freely and easily.
Conductors of electricity are materials that let electricity pass through them. A good conductor of electricity is something that allows electricity to flow smoothly. An electrical insulator is a material that resists electric current, and will not allow it to flow easily. Examples include glass and most ceramics. An electrical conductor … is a material that offers very little resistance to electric current, allowing it to flow freely and easily.
Confidence votes 106. Conductors of electricity are materials that let electricity pass through them. A good conductor of electricity is something that allows electricity to flow smoothly. Some conductors include silver, copper, gold, aluminum, and calcium. An electrical insulator is a material that resists electric current, and will not allow it to flow easily. Examples include glass and most ceramics. An electrical conductor … is a material that offers very little resistance to electric current, allowing it to flow freely and easily.
The resistance of a given conductor depends on the material it is made of, and on its dimensions. For a given material, the resistance is inversely proportional to the cross-sectional area; for example, a thick copper wire has lower resistance than an otherwise-identical thin copper wire. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell.
Part of the Electronics glossary: An electrical conductor is a substance in which electrical charge carriers, usually electrons, move easily from atom to atom with the application of voltage. Conductivity, in general, is the capacity to transmit something, such as electricity or heat. Gases are normally poor conductors because the atoms are too far apart to allow a free exchange of electrons. However, if a sample of gas contains a significant number of ions, it can act as a fair conductor. A substance that does not conduct electricity is called an insulator or dielectric material.
In physics and electrical engineering, a conductor is an object or type of material that allows the flow of electrical current in one or more directions. For people, a wire is an electrical conductor that can carry electricity along its length. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell.
Conductors and Insulators. In a conductor, electric current can flow freely, in an insulator it cannot. Metals such as copper typify conductors, while most non-metallic solids are said to be good insulators, having extremely high resistance to the flow of charge through them. Conductor implies that the outer electrons of the atoms are loosely bound and free to move through the material. Most atoms hold on to their electrons tightly and are insulators.
Conductors. In a conductor, electrons are bound very loosely and are free to move around. These so-called free electrons can move freely through the material and respond to nearby positive and negative charges. Conductors have low resistance and transfer electric current well
The ampacity of a conductor, that is, the amount of current it can carry, is related to its electrical resistance: a lower-resistance conductor can carry a larger value of current. The resistance, in turn, is determined by the material the conductor is made from (as described above) and the conductor's size. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell.