Basil is a highly fragrant plant whose leaves are used as a seasoning herb for many different types of foods. Basil has become one of the most recognizable herbs ever since pesto, the mixture of basil, pine nuts and Parmesan cheese, has become popular. Basil has round leaves that are oftentimes pointed.
Holy basil is a powerful antioxidant with demonstrated antibacterial, antifungal, and anti-inflammatory properties. 1, 3 In Ayurvedic medicine, holy basil has been used to treat a variety of conditions-everything from the common cold to bronchitis to fever to certain digestive complaints, including ulcers. 1, 2.
Basil herb contains a good amount of minerals like potassium, manganese, copper, and magnesium. Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids, which helps control heart rate and blood pressure. Manganese is used by the body as a co-factor for the antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase.
If a kitchen has only a few herbs in its possession, basil will likely be one of them. Its fragrant essence combines well with rosemary and thyme in meat dishes, fish, vegetables, cheese, soup and eggs, and is one of the main ingredients in pesto, along with pine nuts and parmesan cheese.
Knowledge center. Basil (Ocimum basilicum), also known as Saint Joseph's Wort, is a herb belonging to the mint family Lamiaceae often used as a seasoning in cooking. Basil is native to India and other tropical areas of Asia.
The round, often pointed leaves of the basil plant looks a lot like peppermint to which it is related. Its highly fragrant leaves are used as a seasoning herb for a variety of foods but has become ever popular as the main ingredient in pesto, the mixture of basil, pine nuts and parmesan cheese.
Basil is more than just an appropriate flavor to use in spaghetti sauce. This herb has specific health benefits that make it an effective treatment for a variety of health conditions. From anxiety to acne, basil combats infection, supports cellular health, reduces inflammation and promotes good general health.
Basil is an herb. The parts of the plant that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. Basil is used for stomach spasms, loss of appetite, intestinal gas, kidney conditions, fluid retention, head colds, warts, and worm infections. It is also used to treat snake and insect bites.