Companies may periodically analyze their revenue cycle to evaluate their profit-generating activities. The revenue cycle includes all activities that lead to the generation and collection of income. Analyzing these activities can help you find ways to improve your collection procedures and increase cash flow. The revenue cycle represents all stages that a dollar of revenue must pass through before your company records it on its income statement. It is broken down between the physical phase and the financial phase of processing.
You should keep a close eye on the revenue cycle and see if there is anything you could change when it dips. 10 people found this helpful. The revenue cycle dictated that we needed an overtime contribution from our accounting team to process and record the transactions. 
Revenue Cycle Management defined Revenue cycle management (RCM) is the process of managing claims, payment and revenue generation. RCM encompasses everything from determining patient insurance eligibility and collecting co-pays to properly coding claims. 
Save. A revenue cycle is the process businesses use to describe the financial progression of their accounts receivables from the very beginning, when they first acquire product, if they're product based, until they get paid, if they get paid in full. (Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images). Revenue Cycle Management for Product Based Businesses. If a company sells products, the first stage in the revenue cycle process is selling the product. When they sell the product, if they collect in full at the point of the sale and record the purchase, the revenue cycle for them is complete.
Definition. Health care revenue cycle management consists of the tools, methodologies and techniques that medical institutions use to review patients' financial situation, issue invoices and collect payments from the federal and state governments, insurance companies and other organizations. 
The revenue cycle is the process between when a patient calls for a doctor’s appointment and when their bill is completely paid off. This process involves setting up and receiving payments so medical services are compensated. The first step in the revenue cycle is appointment scheduling. After a patient schedules an appointment, it is up to the doctor’s office to verify insurance and eligibility of a particular patient and then settle the claim.
The revenue cycle encompasses the entire customer engagement and payment process from beginning to end. In its fullest sense, it begins with marketing and customer capture, then advances through the provision of goods and services, and concludes with customer payments (including returns and refunds). The term revenue cycle is most often associated with health care. Although many non-health companies engage in processes that mimic a revenue cycle, they often break them down into different parts -- e.g., the sales cycle or the production cycle..
The Healthcare Financial Management Association (HFMA) defines revenue cycle as All administrative and clinical functions that contribute to the capture, management, and collection of patient service revenue.. In other words, it is a term that includes the entire life of a patient account from creation to payment. Revenue cycle processes flow into and affect one another. When processes are executed correctly, the cycle performs predictably. However, problems early in the cycle can have significant ripple effects. The further an error travels through the revenue cycle, the more costly revenue recovery becomes
The revenue cycle is a recurring set of business activities and related information processing operations associated with providing goods and services to customers and collecting their cash payments. The primary external exchange of information is with customers. 
REVENUE CYCLE TERMS REVIEW. Charge Capture: Documented services are manually or electronically translated into billable fees. Claim Submission: Billable fees are submitted to the insurance company via a universal claim form for payment. In other words, it is a term that includes the entire life of a patient account from creation to payment. Revenue cycle processes flow into and affect one another. When processes are executed correctly, the cycle performs predictably. However, problems early in the cycle can have significant ripple effects.