In the 1960's, however, geologists discovered that the ocean floors had been spreading, thus influencing the shapes and sizes of the continents. This new theory, called plate tectonics, provided a mechanism that made sense in physical terms to account for Wegener's idea of continental drift. Alfred Wegener, who was educated to be a meteorologist and an Arctic climatologist, insisted that his theory was correct because of the evidence he saw. To support his ideas about continental drift, Wegener pointed to the similarities in the fossils of the southern
A German meteorologist and geophysicist. He proposed the theory of continental drift and believed that all the continents today were all part of one land mass called Pangaea … , and that over the years due to continental drift they are how they are today. + 51 others found this useful. Tiwana Hearditallbefore. Alfred Wegener was a German scientist who hypothesized that the continents were slowly moving along the earth, and therefore discovered tectonic plates. He also figured out th … at the continents were like giant puzzle pieces that when put together could make up one giant continent (Its called Pangea)
On Wegener's map, however, it clustered neatly around the South Pole--because Africa, Antarctica, Australia, and India had once comprised a Southern Hemisphere supercontinent (Gondwanaland). Wegener considered such paleoclimatic validation one of the strongest proofs of his theory. As he read, his earlier conjecture that the continents had once been joined became a conviction he would boldly champion for the rest of his life. Just a few months later, on January 6, 1912, Wegener startled a meeting of the Geological Association in Frankfurt with his radical theory.
Wegener's theory states that 250 million years ago, the land that makes up our continents (North and South America, Antarctica, Africa, Australia, Asia and Europe) was once one great land mass, or supercontinent, which he called Pangaea, meaning “all Earth.. Alfred Wegener also came up with a theory to explain continental drift, although it was in error. His theory of continental drift proposed that centrifugal force moved the heavy continents toward the equator as the Earth spun.
Wegener believe that there was once a single supercontinent, which he called Pangea (or Pangaea). He said that Pangea broke apart millions of years ago to form two large continents. He called the one in the northern hemisphere Laurasia and the one in the southern hemisphere Gondwanaland. Alfred Wegener, who was educated to be a meteorologist and an Arctic climatologist, insisted that his theory was correct because of the evidence he saw. To support his ideas about continental drift, Wegener pointed to the similarities in the fossils of the southern
On November 1, 1880, Alfred Wegener was born in Berlin as the youngest of five children in a clergyman's family. His father, Richard Wegener, was a theologian and teacher of classical languages at the Berlinisches Gymnasium zum Grauen Kloster. Wegener's fit of the supercontinent at the 200m isobath (the continental shelves), an idea he had since at least 1910, was a good match. Part of the reason Wegener's ideas were not initially accepted was based on his proposed fit of the continents, with Charles Schuchert commenting:
The reaction to Alfred Wegener's Continental Drift Theory demonstrates that new ideas threaten the establishment, regardless of the century. Alfred Wegener was the scientist who proposed the Continental Drift Theory in the early twentieth century. Simply put, his hypothesis proposed that the continents had once been joined, and over time had drifted apart. Wegener really did not believe that he had the explanation for the mechanism, but that this should not stop discussion of a hypothesis. Wegener's contemporaries disagreed. A major conference was held by the American Association of Petroleum Geologists in 1926 that was critical of the theory.
Alfred Wegner had once believed that all the continents were once all together as one big continent that … was called Pangea. His theory was called the continental drift theory. That hypothesis was put forward by Abraham Orthelius but Alfred had fully developed the theory. In 1910 Continental Drift was toyed around with by a man known as Alfred Wegner. He actually went through with the idea in 1912. The way He really discovered it was by noticin … g on a map how Africa and South America could almost completely fit together.