MERV ratings range from 1 – 16 and measurements are in microns. Some of the common particles related to MERV ratings are pet dander, insecticide dust, smog, dust, viruses, wood, tobacco smoke, spores, bacteria and pollen. Some of the most common filters found in residential use only have a merv rating of 1 to 4.
Disposable Fiberglass Panel Filter: MERV 1 to 4. Everything gets measured and the efficiency of the air filter on your furnace is no exception. Furnace filter efficiency is measured by a MERV rating following the ASHRAE Standard 52.2 Test Procedure.
Filters with a MERV rating of 9 to 12 are considered high-efficiency filters and capture particulate in the 1 to 3 micron range. These filters are a great choice for home owners who want the best air filtration at an affordable price.
MERV stands for Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value. Or in English, “how effective is your air filter?” MERV ratings range from 1-16. The higher the MERV rating on a filter, the fewer dust particles and other contaminants can pass through it.
Filters with a merv rating of 9 to 12 are used in commercial and industrial applications and will stop particles in the 1 to 3 micron range. These filters are a great choice for home owners who want the best dust control possible.
MERV stands for Minimum Efficiency Reporting Values and is an industry-created standard that evaluates the efficiency of air filters. The MERV rating of any particular air filter ranges on a scale of 1 to 16, with a filter rating 1 being the least efficient and a filter rating 16 being the most efficient.
MERV ratings range from 1 to 20, though most filters are rated from 1 to 16. A rating of 1 is the least efficient and 20 is the most efficient. Filters that cannot remove particles under 10 microns in size are rated from 1 to 4. Filters that can remove particles as small as 3 microns are rated from 5 to 8.
Every furnace filter has a Minimum Efficiency Reporting Value (MERV) rating, which measures how efficiently the filter captures particles of specific sizes that pass through it as your furnace operates. MERV ratings range from 1 (least efficient) to 16 (extremely efficient).