Whether you are looking for a pork loin cooking time or a pork chop cooking time, use the following chart as a cooking time and temperature guide for pork cuts (including ham) that are cooked in the oven, grilled, or are inserted into an oven bag prior to cooking. 
Continue cooking about 50-80 minutes or until the meat registers 145 degrees on a meat thermometer. Some roasts are long and thin and others are short and fat, consequently the cooking times will vary depending on the shape of your roast. The meat thermometer is the best way to judge the right amount of cooking time. WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone.
Smoke with a cooking thermometer to 145 degrees internal temp. Pull it out of the smoker and wrap in foil for 10 to 15 minutes. You will have a juicy pork loin/roast every time. Don't finish on a grill. A boneless pork loin is best when smoked until the internal temperature reaches 145°F, then removed and covered for a three minute rest. According to the USDA (the United States Department of Agriculture), pork is safely done when it reaches 145°F.
Checking for Doneness: It is not the time in the oven but the internal temperature of the roast that will determine if it is cooked properly. According to the USDA and Minnesota Pork Board, “Pork is best when cooked to medium doneness – 160 degrees F. on a meat thermometer. WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone.
Roast in 450 degrees F oven for about 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Continue to roast for 55 to 60 minutes or until instant-read meat thermometer inserted into the pork, but not in the stuffing, registers 150 to 155 degrees F and potatoes are fork tender. 
Let stand for 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 425-450 degrees. Place boneless loin roast, uncovered, for 20 minutes in oven to brown and sear pork. Reduce heat to 325 degrees. Cover roast [with lid or foil]. Continue to bake the pork loin for another hour or until the internal temperature registers 145-155 degrees. Let roast stand, covered, 5-10 minutes before carving to lock in the juices. Use pan drippings to make gravy if desired. Cooking times are suggested cooking times only as ovens do vary. 
1 Remove pork from oven, lightly cover with foil, and let rest 5-10 minutes to redistribute internal juices. 2  Roast should be done, very slightly pink in the center, and very moist. 3  After resting 10 minutes, the roast should reach a safe 145-150 degrees. 1 Preheat oven to 500 degrees. 2  Remove tenderloin from refrigerator. 3  Season meat as desired. 4  Place seasoned meat in an uncovered roasting pan on a shelf in the bottom 1/3 of your oven. 5  Bake EXACTLY 5 1/2 minutes PER POUND. 6  Adjust +/- according to your oven's accuracy and heat retention. 7  NOTE:.
To prepare this roast pork loin recipe, we first rub a boneless pork loin with a simple blend of garlic and seasonings, and then roast it to perfection. Note that the final target temperature for this pork loin roast is 140° to 145°F, which is medium. The interior will have a lovely rosy color. 
The National Pork Board recommends cooking pork chops, roasts, and tenderloin to an internal temperature between 145° F. (medium rare) and 160° F. (medium), followed by a 3 minute rest. Since large cuts increase approximately 10° F. while resting, remove them from the heat at 150° F. followed by a 10 minute rest. 