Definition of IMPRINTING. : a rapid learning process that takes place early in the life of a social animal (as a goose) and establishes a behavior pattern (as recognition of and attraction to its own kind or a substitute). Medical Definition of IMPRINTING. 1. : a rapid learning process that takes place early in the life of a social animal (as a greylag goose) and establishes a behavior pattern (as recognition of and attraction to its own kind or a substitute). 2. : genomic imprinting
Genomic imprinting: The phenomenon of parent-of-origin gene expression. The expression of a gene depends upon the parent who passed on the gene. For instance, two different disorders-Prader-Willi syndrome and Angelman syndrome -- are due to deletion of the same part of chromosome 15. 
Genomic imprinting is the epigenetic phenomenon by which certain genes are expressed in a parent-of-origin-specific manner. If the allele inherited from the father is imprinted, it is thereby silenced, and only the allele from the mother is expressed. If the allele from the mother is imprinted, then only the allele from the father is expressed. Forms of genomic imprinting have been demonstrated in fungi, plants and animals. Genomic imprinting is a fairly rare phenomenon in mammals; most genes are not imprinted. In insects, imprinting affects entire chromosomes. In some insects the entire paternal genome is silenced in male offspring, and thus is involved in sex determination
An imprinted allele creates silencing on one chromosome and gene expression from solely the other parent. There are many more complexities and Wikipedia is a great source as well as Geneimprint http://www.geneimprint.com/site/what-is-imprinting. See the link regarding Parental Imprinting, the definition is concise. Genomic imprinting is an epigenetic mechanism of inheritance which allows genes to be expressed differently depending on which parent they come from. This means it is modification of the genome, or changes what the genome produces, without changing the nucleotide (DNA) sequence.
genomic imprinting, differential expression of a gene or genes as a function of whether they were inherited from the male or the female parent (e.g., a deletion on chromosome 15 that causes Prader-Willi syndrome if inherited from the father causes instead Angelman's syndrome if inherited from the mother). 
: genetic alteration of a gene or its expression that is inferred to take place from the observation that certain genes are expressed differently depending on whether they are inherited from the paternal or maternal parent—called also genetic imprinting, imprinting. 
2.1 Genomic Imprinting. For some genes, only one copy is expressed. Expression of these genes is variable depending on which parent the gene came from, a process known as genomic imprinting. In this way, the active gene is preferentially transmitted from one parent over the other. For some genetic disorders, the expression of the phenotype is dependent on whether the mutation occurs in a gene that is imprinted. In other words, the phenotype depends on whether the mutated allele is inherited from the mother or the father.