Ayrshire is a region home to the counties of East Ayrshire, North Ayrshire and South Ayrshire. Heaving with natural beauty, this area of Scotland is a haven for walking, cycling and sporting enthusiasts. Whether you are a couple, a family, with a group of friends or travelling solo, this is a region that will captivate any age group.
The variety of attractions in these cities and towns in Argyll will appeal to all tastes. Ayrshire is a fascinating region with a rich history and numerous tourist attractions. In Ayrshire you will discover more than 40 castles and a large number of golf courses. There are a number of attractions in cities such as Dumfries and Kirkcudbright, as well as many fun activities. Edinburgh & the Lothians is a bustling region filled with history, attractions and
1 Golf, as in most areas of Scotland, is well provided for in the Ayrshire area. 2  Along with a myriad of public courses, Ayrshire contains two courses which have held the British Open (one of the majors on the PGA/European tour) in recent years: Turnberry and Royal Troon. 
Ayrshire. The region of Ayrshire is best known as the birthplace of Robert Burns, Scotland's great poet, loved and revered the world over. One of the region's main attractions is the beautiful Isle of Arran, but it is covered in the Argyll section. The most attractive part of Ayrshire is the south, from the main town, Ayr, south to Girvan. North of Ayr is a series of low-key resorts interspersed with ports and industrialized towns stretching to the mouth of the Clyde
History [edit]. Ayrshire, under the name the County of Ayr, is a registration county. The electoral and valuation area named Ayrshire covers the three council areas of South Ayrshire, East Ayrshire and North Ayrshire, therefore including the Isle of Arran, Great Cumbrae and Little Cumbrae. The Local Government (Scotland) Act 1889 established a uniform system of county councils in Scotland and realigned the boundaries of many of Scotland’s counties. Glasgow Prestwick International Airport, serving Glasgow, is located in Ayrshire.
The three islands were part of the County of Bute until 1975 and are not always included when the term Ayrshire is applied to the region. The same area is known as Ayrshire and Arran in other contexts. Ayrshire is one of the most agriculturally fertile regions of Scotland. Potatoes are grown in fields near the coast, using seaweed-based fertiliser, and in addition the region produces pork products, other root vegetables, cattle (see below) and summer berries such as strawberries are grown abundantly. The Local Government (Scotland) Act 1889 established a uniform system of county councils in Scotland and realigned the boundaries of many of Scotland’s counties. Glasgow Prestwick International Airport, serving Glasgow, is located in Ayrshire.
The renowned city of Edinburgh buzzes day and night, while Newhaven is a quiet fishing village where you can simply relax. Other destinations worth visiting include Leith, Dunbar, Stenton, Pencaitland and Cramond. Fife is one of the historical regions of Scotland and was originally a Pictish Kingdom. It is still called the Kingdom of Fife and is situated between the Firth of Tay and the Firth of Forth. This popular tourist region encompasses towns such as Anstruther, Glenrothes, St. Andrews, Leven and Falkland. There are a number of attractions in cities such as Dumfries and Kirkcudbright, as well as many fun activities. Edinburgh & the Lothians is a bustling region filled with history, attractions and
Ayrshire is a fascinating region with a rich history and numerous tourist attractions. The area’s chief natural feature is the beautiful Firth of Clyde. The main towns in Ayrshire are Ayr, Irvine and Kilmarnock. It was in the 11th Century that Ayrshire came to form part of the Scottish kingdom, thus history buffs will certainly enjoy exploring this fascinating region. Not to be missed are the three islands of Ayrshire: Arran, Cumbrae and Ailsa Craig. The Isle of Arran attracts many visitors to its scenic shores, while Ailsa Craig is a lovely bird sanctuary and Cumbrae hosts a popular cycle lane.