spindle fibers. Spindle fibers form a protein structure that divides the genetic material in a cell. The spindle is necessary to equally divide the chromosomes in a parental cell into two daughter cells during both types of nuclear division: mitosis and meiosis. During mitosis, the spindle fibers are called the mitotic spindle. Meanwhile, during meiosis, the spindle fibers are referred to as the meiotic spindle. Long protein fibers called microtubules extend from the centrioles in all possible directions, forming what is called a spindle. Some of the microtubules attach the poles to the chromosomes by connecting to protein complexes called kinetochores.
Metaphase is the stage when spindle fibers attach to chromosomes.  Metaphase is the second stage of cell division, between prophase  and anaphase. The centromeres of chromosomes attach to the spindle fibers during metaphase. The spindle fibers bring about the separation of sister chromosomes to the opposite poles. When s … pindle fibers do not attach to the centromeres, the doubling of chromosomes leads to polyploidy in the cell. Answered
The centromeres of chromosomes attach to the spindle fibers during metaphase. The spindle fibers bring about the separation of sister chromosomes to the opposite poles. When s … pindle fibers do not attach to the centromeres, the doubling of chromosomes leads to polyploidy in the cell. Centrioles are found just floating in the cytoplasm, while chromosomes are in the nucleus. Chromatins, strands the chromosomes are make up of, are connected by the centromere. Therefore the spindle fibers probably attach to chromosomes in the nucleus, though I, as well, am not entirely sure.
Best Answer: They attach to the centromeres of the chromosomes. However, at the centromere there is a protein called a kinetochore and it is here that the spindle fibers connect to. by the pulling apart movement required to make two new daughter cells. spindle fibers attach to the opposite ends of the poles during metophase which creates the chromosomes to split. this process of splitting is also known as binary fission Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/During_mitosis...
Chromosome attach to spindle fibers in metaphase (when the chromosomes line up on an equilateral plane) of mitosis by the cetromere. The centromeres of chromosomes attach to the spindle fibers during metaphase. The spindle fibers bring about the separation of sister chromosomes to the opposite poles. When s … pindle fibers do not attach to the centromeres, the doubling of chromosomes leads to polyploidy in the cell. Answered
The kinetochore /kɪˈnɛtəkɔər/ is the protein structure on chromatids where the spindle fibers attach during cell division to pull sister chromatids apart. The kinetochore forms in eukaryotes, assembles on the centromere and links the chromosome to microtubule polymers from the mitotic spindle during mitosis and meiosis. 
Observing Mitosis with Fluorescence Microscopy Metaphase Perhaps the most recognizable phase of mitosis is termed metaphase, a stage where the chromosomes, attached to the kinetochore microtubules, begin to align in a single plane (known as the metaphase plate) midway between the spindle poles. 
In early metaphase, after the nuclear membrane dissolves, parallel fibers called spindle fibers appear. The spindle fibers attach to each chromosome on either side of its centromere. The spindle fibers force the chromosomes into a tight plane which is a circle around the circumference of the spindle apparatus. The chromosomes are now ready for the splitting of their centromers and the separation of their chromatids. 
Definition: Spindle fibers are aggregates of microtubules that move chromosomes during cell division. During prophase of mitosis, spindle fibers form at opposite poles of the cell. During metaphase, spindle fibers extend from the cell poles toward the midpoint of the cell known as the metaphase plate. Chromosomes are held at the metaphase plate by the equal forces of the spindle fibers pushing on the centromeres of the chromosomes. In anaphase, spindle fibers pull sister chromatids toward the spindle poles. Spindle fibers not connected to chromatids lengthen and elongate