The $3,800 exemption on 2012 tax returns is a tax break you can claim regardless of whether you itemize or how much money you earn, as long as your son or daughter was under 19 last year. But if your child was 19 or older, well, it’s complicated. When You Can Claim Adult Children. 
Age. The IRS allows you to claim an exemption for your child who is under 19 years of age. You might be able to continue claiming an exemption for your college-age child from age 19 through 23 years old, provided she meets the IRS' other tests as a qualifying child. If you've claimed an exemption for your child for the past 18 years, but this year she turned 19 and you're wondering if you can still hang on to that tax break, the answer is: maybe.
You can reduce you total taxes owed by claiming a child as a dependent on your income tax return. But not all children qualify and age is a factor. In some cases, you can claim a child under the age of 19. In other instances, you can claim a child under the age of 24. And in still other scenarios, a child might not qualify at all – regardless of their age. Read on for more details about under what circumstance you can claim a child as a dependent on your income taxes. As mentioned above, age is a factor in determining whether your child is a qualifying child for your tax return. If your child is a student or is disabled, then you can claim him or her as a dependent as long as your child is under age 24. Otherwise, the child must be under 19 years old
Tax Credits. Claiming your college-age child as your dependent might result in a tax credit as well, which reduces your tax bill to the IRS. As of the 2012 tax year, the IRS offers three tax credits for tuition, although one of them is set to expire after 2012 unless legislation passes to renew it. 
To claim the Child Tax Credit, you must determine if your child is eligible. There are seven qualifying tests to consider: age, relationship, support, dependent status, citizenship, length of residency and family income. You and/or your child must pass all seven to claim this tax credit. 
How Much to Claim. Canadian taxpayers can claim up to $7,000 per child for children under the age of 7 years at the end of the year, and $4,000 per child for children aged 7 to 16 years. For disabled, dependent children of any age who qualify for the disability tax credit, the amount to claim for that child is $10,000. You can claim $4,000 for a disabled child over the age of 16 who does not qualify for the disability tax credit but was still dependent on you and required care. 
You can only claim a qualifying-child exemption if your child lives with you for at least half the year. The IRS offers a number of exceptions for this test. If your 20-year-old is at college eight months of the year, you can still claim him; if he stays with relatives while you're on military duty, he still qualifies. You have to stop claiming your child when she turns 19, unless she goes on to become a full-time student. In that case, you keep claiming the exemption until she's 24, as long as she meets the other qualifying-child tests. After a child reaches age 24, you can only claim her if she's completely and totally disabled.
You can claim a $3,700 exemption if your college-age child qualifies as a dependent. The Internal Revenue Service allows you to reduce the amount of your taxable income based on the number of exemptions you claim. You can claim one exemption for yourself, one for your spouse, and one for each of your dependents. If you've claimed an exemption for your child for the past 18 years, but this year she turned 19 and you're wondering if you can still hang on to that tax break, the answer is: maybe.
You may be able to get a Child Tax Credit for each of your qualifying children under age 17. The credit is intended to offset the cost of raising children. The maximum amount you can get for each child is $1,000 for Tax Year 2014. You may be able to claim one of the two different student tax credits 1  : American Opportunity Credit: You can claim this credit if your child is in his or her first four years of post-secondary school. 2  The maximum amount you can claim is $2,500 per eligible student, per year.