Enzymes are catalysts found in nature. For example, it is the enzymes in yeast that cause bread dough to rise. When yeast is mixed with warm water and sugar it starts to grow and bubbles of carbon dioxide gas are produced. When the yeast mixture is added to flour and water to make a dough, the dough rises. In a covalent bond, electrons are shared between two atoms. When two oxygen atoms bond together to form an oxygen molecule, they share four electrons – two from each oxygen atom. Other examples of covalent bonding are water (H 2 O), and carbon dioxide (CO 2).
Report Abuse. It's the Yeast added to the dough. It's a fungus used in the production of bread and beer. Yeast, in the environment of sugar, produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. This process is called fermentation. The carbon dioxide gas makes the bread ri
Best Answer: When yeast ferments, it breaks down the glucose (C6H12O6) into exactly two molecules of ethanol (CH3CH2OH) and two molecules of carbon dioxide (CO2). Ethanol fermentation (performed by yeast and some types of bacteria) breaks the pyruvate down into ethanol and carbon dioxide. · just now. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. A process known as glycolysis (better known as fermentation), allows they yeast to get energy by splitting a glucose molecule and converting it into ethanol (alcohol) and CO2 (gas which causes bread to rise).
Yeast strengthens bread dough. When you stir together flour and water, two proteins in the flour—glutenin and gliadin—grab water and each other to form a bubblegum-like, elastic mass of molecules that we call gluten. As soon as these ingredients are stirred together, enzymes in the yeast and the flour cause large starch molecules to break down into simple sugars. The yeast metabolizes these simple sugars and exudes a liquid that releases carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol into existing air bubbles in the dough.
What makes bread dough rise? Our whole-wheat bread is made from five simple ingredients-honey, whole wheat flour, water, salt, and yeast. If you've ever seen a loaf of bread being made, you've probably noticed that it's much smaller when it's in its dough form, growing bigger through the time it's fully baked.
The carbon dioxide produced as a by-product when yeast perform alcoholic fermentation on the sugar in the bread mix is the gas that causes dough to rise. The sugars in produce like barley, grapes and other grains and fruits is what allows yeast to produce the bubbles and alcohol in beer, wine and other liquors. 
Yeast and it's reaction thereof. YEAST is a leavening agent used to make bread dough rise. It is a single-cell organism that grows and multiplies as it ferments sugar. The fermentation process produces gases that are trapped in the dough in the form of small bubbles that force the dough to rise into a honeycomb structure. It's the Yeast added to the dough. It's a fungus used in the production of bread and beer. Yeast, in the environment of sugar, produces carbon dioxide and alcohol. This process is called fermentation. The carbon dioxide gas makes the bread ris
Yeast is a very strong biological fermerter, when added to dough it will break carbohydrate into sugars and further to Co2 and other ingredients and ethanol (ethyl alcohol). Co2 will make bread rise. · just now. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. A process known as glycolysis (better known as fermentation), allows they yeast to get energy by splitting a glucose molecule and converting it into ethanol (alcohol) and CO2 (gas which causes bread to rise).
Ethanol fermentation causes bread dough to rise. Yeast organisms consume sugars in the dough and produce ethanol and carbon dioxide as waste products. The carbon dioxide forms bubbles in the dough, expanding it into something of a foam. Nearly all the ethanol evaporates from the dough when the bread is baked. In ethanol fermentation, one glucose molecule breaks down into two pyruvates (1). The energy from this exothermic reaction is used to bind inorganic phosphates to ADP and convert NAD+ to NADH. The two pyruvates are then broken down into two acetaldehydes and give off two CO2 as a waste product (2).