They are called T cells because they mature in the thymus (although some also mature in the tonsils). The several subsets of T cells each have a distinct function. The majority of human T cells rearrange their alpha/beta T cell receptors and are termed alpha beta T cells and are part of adaptive immune system. Specialized gamma delta T cells, which comprise a minority of T cells in the human body (more frequent in ruminants), have invariant TCR (with limited diversity), can effectively present antigens to other T cells and are considered to be part of the innat
T cells (thymus cells) and B cells (bone marrow-or bursa-derived cells) are the major cellular components of the adaptive immune response. T cells are involved in cell-mediated immunity, whereas B cells are primarily responsible for humoral immunity (relating to antibodies). They include natural killer cells (NK cells) (which function in cell-mediated, cytotoxic innate immunity), T cells (for cell-mediated, cytotoxic adaptive immunity), and B cells (for humoral, antibody-driven adaptive immunity). They are the main type of cell found in lymph, which prompted the name lymphocyte.
T cells (also known as T lymphocytes) are types of lymphocyte that circulate through the thymus gland. and have turned into cells known as thymocytes (cells that have developed in the thymus gland). The. thymus gland is an organ located in the upper part of the chest and is very important in producing. 
They are B lymphocytes (B cells) and T lymphocytes (T cells). B cells. B cells develop from bone marrow stem cells in adults. When B cells become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they create antibodies that are specific to that specific antigen. Lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell generated by the immune system to defend the body against cancerous cells, pathogens, and foreign matter. Lymphocytes circulate in blood and lymph fluid and are found in body tissues including the spleen, thymus, bone marrow, lymph nodes, tonsils, and liver.
T cell. any of several closely related lymphocytes, developed in the thymus, that circulate in the blood and lymph and regulate the immune system's response to infected or malignant cells. Also called T lymphocyte. 1. T lymphocyte-a small lymphocyte developed in the thymus; it orchestrates the immune system's response to infected or malignant cells. T cell. lymph cell, lymphocyte-an agranulocytic leukocyte that normally makes up a quarter of the white blood cell count but increases in the presence of infection.
T cells or T lymphocytes are a type of lymphocyte (in turn, a type of white blood cell) that plays a central role in cell-mediated immunity. They can be distinguished from other lymphocytes, such as B cells and natural killer cells (NK cells), by the presence of a T-cell receptor (TCR) on the cell surface. Specialized gamma delta T cells, which comprise a minority of T cells in the human body (more frequent in ruminants), have invariant TCR (with limited diversity), can effectively present antigens to other T cells and are considered to be part of the innate immune system.