Organizational Development Theory. Organizational Development (OD) is a field of research, theory, and practice dedicated to expanding the knowledge and effectiveness of people to accomplish more successful organizational change and performance. 
NOTE: This site distinguishes the difference between organizational development and Organization Development.. The former phrase refers to the nature and scope of change in organizations, i.e., the change is to the entire organization or to a significant portion of the organization. The latter phrase refers to a field of well-trained people with expertise in guiding successful organizational development.
The key premise of organizational development is that organizations are social systems. The goal is to increase the long-term health and performance of the organization, while enriching the lives of its members. Organizational development (OD) transforms the organizational culture (loosely, shared beliefs, values, and behaviors) by working with social and technical systems such as culture, work processes, communication, and rewards. This site describes some of the tools and techniques of organizational development.
1 Organization development helps the employees to focus on their jobs and contribute in their best possible way. 2  Management can handle the employees in a better way as a result of organization development. 1 The employees as a result of organization development respond better to changes in the work culture. 2 
Organization Development is the attempt to influence the members of an organization to expand their candidness with each other about their views of the organization and their experience in it, and to take greater responsibility for their own actions as organization members. The former phrase refers to the nature and scope of change in organizations, i.e., the change is to the entire organization or to a significant portion of the organization. The latter phrase refers to a field of well-trained people with expertise in guiding successful organizational development.
Search ». Organization Development is an effort (1) planned, (2) organization-wide, and (3) managed from the top, to (4) increase organization effectiveness and health through (5) planned interventions in the organizations processes,” using behavioral-science knowledge. OD interventions are inclusive methodologies and approaches to strategic planning, organization design, leadership development, change management, performance management, coaching, diversity, team building, and work/life balance.Matt Minahan, MM & Associates, Silver Spring, Maryland.
Organization development (OD) is a deliberately planned, organization-wide effort to increase an organization's effectiveness and/or efficiency, and/or to enable the organization to achieve its strategic goals. OD theorists and practitioners define OD in various ways. OD interventions are about change and so involve people-but OD also develops processes, systems and structures. The primary purpose of OD is to develop the organization, not to train or develop the staff.
Simply put, an Organization Development practitioner is to an organization as a physician is to a human body. The practitioner diagnoses (or discovers) the most important priorities to address in the organization, suggests a change-management plan, and then guides the organization through the necessary change. The former phrase refers to the nature and scope of change in organizations, i.e., the change is to the entire organization or to a significant portion of the organization. The latter phrase refers to a field of well-trained people with expertise in guiding successful organizational development.
Lesson Summary. Organizational development is the process of helping organizations improve through change in policies, power, leadership, control or job redesign. Organizational climate, organizational culture and organizational strategy are the three main sections of organizational development theory. Instructor: Jennifer Lombardo. Organizational development is the process of helping organizations improve through change in policies, power, leadership, control or job redesign. This lesson explores organizational climate, organizational culture and organizational strategy,