Summing Up Grad Gift Etiquette. Just because there is monetary gift etiquette for college graduation and the grads that achieve success, it doesn’t mean it’s always followed to the letter. Only give what you can afford; if the standard $25 is too high for your budget, consider a lower amount. If the graduate is the child of a friend or co-worker, again it may depend upon how close you are with that friend or co-worker. Even so, the children of friends or co-workers aren’t family so consider a monetary gift of $25 dollars or below.
Cash is among the most popular gifts for recent graduates. Graduations aren't just major life achievements; for some graduates, they're also a gift-receiving bonanza. The Global Association for Marketing at Retail reports that graduation gifts will tally $4.7 billion for 2012. If you're strapped for cash, aim for a smaller, token amount. If, however, you have plenty of money, it's important to note that a very small gift -- such as one under 25 dollars -- might be viewed as miserly, particularly if you buy expensive things for yourself.
Most people felt $50 to $100 is the appropriate amount to spend on both high school and college graduates, according to the latest Investor Pulse survey from Spectrem Group's Millionaire Corner. According to the survey of 1,200 investors, 87 percent feel it is important to give graduation gifts to immediate family. Only 6 percent of overall respondents say they don't feel it's important to give graduation gifts to anyone. Makecollegecount.com suggests a range of $20 to $50 from relatives of graduates and $15 to $50 from friends of the graduate's family and the graduate's friends.
The amount of money that feels right depends upon: 1) the type of graduation, 2) how close the relationship is, and 3) how much the recipient needs the money. But in general, according to a study by Hallmark: • 95 percent believe money is an appropriate gift for graduation from high school or college. 
For some people giving $20 would be a stretch. I think a lot of how much you give depends on how close you are to these nieces and nephews. If not close--if you don't see them or stay in touch, I'd give a lower amount. I gave $50 to my kids' friends on high school graduation. But for close kids or family, I'd give $100. 
You also must decide how much to spend. Again, there's no set recommendation. In a survey of more than 1,000 people by retailmenot,respondents on average said gifts worth about $111 were appropriate for high-school graduates, $243 for someone earning a bachelor's degree and $256 for the recipient of a graduate degree. On average, respondents say $165 is an appropriate cash gift for high-school graduates, while $464 is good for someone earning a bachelor's degree. If your friend or relative just attained a graduate degree, plan on shelling out about $772.
The question of how much you should give to a college graduate as a gift is also important. If it’s a relative and you are an important part of their lives, a college degree was a huge effort on their part, so consider giving between $25 and $50 dollars. If the graduate is the child of a friend or co-worker, again it may depend upon how close you are with that friend or co-worker. Even so, the children of friends or co-workers aren’t family so consider a monetary gift of $25 dollars or below.
College. Graduating from a college is a big deal, which makes many people wonder if a larger monetary gift is required. Millionaire's Corner's survey shows that many people give between $100 and $500 dollars for the college graduation of a relative or close friend. Clearly, there is plenty of debate and discrepancy regarding how much to give a graduate. If you're wondering about how much to give for a graduation gift, you should consider first what you can afford and then your relationship to the graduate. According to Miss Manners, there is no specific amount that etiquette dictates is appropriate for a graduation gift. You should give only what you want to spend.
So how much money should you give as a graduation gift these days? According to a new survey, from RetailMeNot.com, people give an average of $111 for a high school graduation, $243 for a college graduation, and $256 for a grad school graduation. What’s with the funky figures, $111? Why isn’t the average for high school plain old $100? Anyway that is too rich for my blood.