noun. Payload is the cargo that produces income, or the bombs or missiles carried by an aircraft. 1  When there are 20 people who paid to go on a plane, these people are an example of the payload. 2  When a bomber has 10 bombs, the bombs are an example of the payload. The term payload is also the actual data that is encapsulated in a packet and is transmitted on a network. Payload is also a critical concept in Web services, identifying the data that is transmitted.
1,084 pages on this wiki. Payload is the damage caused by a malicious program. The payload of a virus or worm can range from irreparably damaging the operating system or even the BIOS (as the CIH virus) or almost nothing (as the Badtrans worm). 
Definition Edit. A malicious payload is software carried by a delivery mechanism, such as a Trojan horse, that is generally intended to do harm to a computer system. 30,575 pages on this wiki. A malicious payload is software carried by a delivery mechanism, such as a Trojan horse, that is generally intended to do harm to a computer system.
Malware-definition, history and classification. “Malware” is short for “malicious software” - computer programs designed to infiltrate and damage computers without the users consent. “Malware” is the general term covering all the different types of threats to your computer safety such as viruses, spyware, worms, trojans, rootkits and so on. Computer worms, on the other hand, spread without user action. Both viruses and worms can carry a so-called “payload” – malicious code designed to do damage. Trojans and Rootkits – the masked threat. Trojans and rootkits are grouped together as they both seek to conceal attacks on computers. Trojan Horses are malignant pieces of software pretending to be benign applications
Definition of:payload (1) The actual data in a packet or file minus all headers attached for transport and minus all descriptive meta-data. In a network packet, headers are appended to the payload for transport and then discarded at their destination. In a key-length-value structure, the key and length are descriptive data about the value (the payload). See protocol stack. (2) In the analysis of malicious software such as worms, viruses and Trojans, it refers to the software's harmful results. Examples of payloads include data destruction, messages with insulting text or spurious e-mail messages sent to a large number of people
Viruses and worms are defined by their behaviour – malicious software designed to spread without the user’s knowledge. A virus infects legitimate software and when this software is used by the computer owner it spreads the virus – so viruses need you to act before they can spread. Computer worms, on the other hand, spread without user action. Both viruses and worms can carry a so-called “payload” – malicious code designed to do damage. Trojans and Rootkits – the masked threat. Trojans and rootkits are grouped together as they both seek to conceal attacks on computers. Trojan Horses are malignant pieces of software pretending to be benign applications
payload-Computer Definition. 1  Also known as the text field .The user data within a block, cell, frame, or packet. 2  See also block, cell, data format, frame, packet, and text field. 3  The user data that traverses a circuit or network, in contrast to signaling and control information and overhead. The term payload is also the actual data that is encapsulated in a packet and is transmitted on a network. Payload is also a critical concept in Web services, identifying the data that is transmitted.
Definition. Malware is an abbreviation of the words malicious software.. It is a collective noun that includes viruses, worms, and Trojan horses that intentionally perform malicious tasks on a computer system. Technically, malware is any malicious code. 