Geophysicist Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Geophysicist is $98,522 per year. The highest paying skills associated with this job are seismic interpretation, Data Modeling, and Interpretation. Experience strongly influences income for this job. A minimum education requirement for geophysicists is a bachelor’s degree in geophysics, physical sciences, earth sciences, or related discipline. Excellent written and oral communications skills are a key qualification, as well as the ability to work both independently and as part of a team.
The term geophysics sometimes refers only to the geological applications: Earth's shape; its gravitational and magnetic fields; its internal structure and composition; its dynamics and their surface expression in plate tectonics, the generation of magmas, volcanism and rock formation. Geophysics is a highly interdisciplinary subject and geophysicists contribute to every area of the Earth sciences. To provide a clearer idea of what constitutes geophysics, this section describes phenomena that are studied in physics and how they relate to the Earth and its surroundings.
Geophysics /dʒiːoʊfɪzɪks/ is a subject of natural science concerned with the physical processes and physical properties of the Earth and its surrounding space environment, and the use of quantitative methods for their analysis. Geophysics is a highly interdisciplinary subject and geophysicists contribute to every area of the Earth sciences. To provide a clearer idea of what constitutes geophysics, this section describes phenomena that are studied in physics and how they relate to the Earth and its surroundings.
Some geophysicists use these methods to find oil, iron, copper, and many other minerals. Some evaluate earth properties for environmental hazards and evaluate areas for dams or construction sites. Research geophysicists study the internal structure and evolution of the earth, earthquakes, the ocean and other physical features using these methods.
A geophysicist's tasks. Geophysicists work in the field, which may be onshore or off, or else in the oil company's scientific and technical center. In the field, they record data relating to the depth of geological strata and other features. Like a physician, the geophysicist interprets the image to extrapolate the geometry of the petroleum trap. Interpretation is carried out in constant collaboration with geologists, who are able to identify the type of formation and describe its characteristics.
Although geophysics was only recognized as a separate discipline in the 19th century, its origins go back to ancient times. The first magnetic compasses were made from lodestones, while more modern magnetic compasses played an important role in the history of navigation. The first seismic instrument was built in 132 BC. Geophysics is a highly interdisciplinary subject and geophysicists contribute to every area of the Earth sciences. To provide a clearer idea of what constitutes geophysics, this section describes phenomena that are studied in physics and how they relate to the Earth and its surroundings.
A geophysicist is a scientist who studies the physical properties of the Earth, and who may also study the physical properties of other planets along with moons and other objects found in space. In order to work in this field, it is usually necessary to have a graduate degree. 
A geophysicist is someone who studies the Earth using gravity, magnetic, electrical, and seismic methods. Some evaluate earth properties for environmental hazards and evaluate areas for dams or construction sites. Research geophysicists study the internal structure and evolution of the earth, earthquakes, the ocean and other physical features using these methods.
A geophysicist must have a strong science background, a curious mind, and a fascination with natural phenomena to succeed. Geophysicists measure, examine, and explore the physical properties of earth, from below the ground to the atmosphere, from the depths of the ocean to the tops of volcanoes. 