Ionic compound are brittle because if a force is added to the lattice the layer of ions repel causing the ionic lattice to split and to shatter also called repulsion the oppos … ite charges are lined together. Electrostatic force attraction keeps the ionic compound together. 1 person found this useful. yes. This is due to the attractions between the positive and negative ions. That is why ionic compounds have high boiling and tend to be more brittle than materials containing … only covalently bonded atoms.
Best Answer: In terms of crystal structure: In ionic compounds, cations (which are positively charged) and anions (which are negatively charged) are attracted to each other and form bonds. When a force is applied, such as a hammer strike, the ions are rearrange so that ions of similar charge align (cation-with-cation, anion-with-anion). Similar charges repel, causing bonds to break. That is why ionic compounds are brittle. Source(s): I got this question right on my chemical bonds test :).
They are lattices composed of oppositely charged ions. Ionic solids tend to have high melting points (high generally being higher than metallic but lower than covalent). Because the electrons in ionic solids are localized (in the ions) these solids tend to be stiff and brittle like covalent solids. As solids they do not conduct electricity (again because of the localize electrons). However, they do conduct electricity as liquids (or when dissolved in water) since then the ions can move
1 Ionic compounds tend to be hard and brittle while covalent compounds tend to be softer and more flexible. 2  Ionic compounds conduct electricity when dissolved in water while covalent compounds typically don't. 1 Ionic compounds tend to have higher melting and boiling points than covalent compounds. 2  Ionic compounds tend to be hard and brittle while covalent compounds tend to be softer and more flexible. 3
Ionic solids are brittle and crack when stress is applied .This is because there are inter-ionic forces of attraction b/w the ion of the solids..When stress is applied the sim … ilarly charged ions come in interaction to each other and forces of repulsion are developed b/w the ions and the solid is thus cracked..... yes. This is due to the attractions between the positive and negative ions. That is why ionic compounds have high boiling and tend to be more brittle than materials containing … only covalently bonded atoms.
1 Most crystals are ionic compounds. 2  This is because the ions in these compounds tend to stack into crystal lattices to balance between the attractive forces between opposite ions and the repulsive forces between like ions. 3  Covalent or molecular compounds can exist as crystals, though. 1 Ionic compounds tend to have higher melting and boiling points than covalent compounds. 2  Ionic compounds tend to be hard and brittle while covalent compounds tend to be softer and more flexible. 3  Ionic compounds conduct electricity when dissolved in water while covalent compounds typically don't.
Ionic solids are generally high melting (more than 150 degrees C). Ionic solids are hard and brittle. Ionic solids melt to form liquids that are electrical conductors because the ions are free to move. Ionic solids that are water soluble, dissolve to form solutions that are electrical conductors. 
A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. 13 people found this useful. Ionic Bonds-When a metal and a nonmetal come together and loses or gains an electron. Covalent Bonds-Two nonmetals that share one or more electrons. Both bonds bonds toget … her to form a stable, complete or filled outer shell of 8 valanc
1 An ionic solid is made up of positive ions (cations) and negative ions (anions) held together by electrostatic forces in a rigid array or lattice. 2  Ionic bonding refers to the electrostatic attraction between cations and anions. 3  The physical properties of ionic compounds are: 4  High melting and boiling points. 