9 For configuration, you must temporarily connect your Brother wireless device (your printer) directly to a free port on your access point, hub or router using a network cable. When the following screen appears, insert the network cable to the access point and then to the printer. NOTE SETUP is the default SSID of the printer. Do not choose this SSID. If the list is blank, check that the access point has power and is broadcasting the SSID, and then see if the printer and the access point are within range for wireless communication.
Check the Brother Peer-to-Peer Network Printer option, then click the Next button. Choose the option to Change the Firewall port settings to enable network connection and continue with the installation, then click the Next button. Click the Wireless Setup option at the bottom of the window. 
HINT: How to find the Network Name (SSID, ESSID) and Network Key. Configure the wireless settings: This FAQ explains how to configure your Brother machine for a wireless network using the Wireless setup wizard and a USB cable temporarily. (The computer must be on your network.). If you do not have a USB cable, you can configure your Brother machine using the Setup Wizard from the machine's control panel manually. For more details on how to configure from the control panel, please refer to the Quick Setup Guide. 1 Choose Wireless Network Connection and then click Next. 2  The screen for choosing your Brother machine may appear. 3  If the screen does not appear, continue to STEP e. 4  Check if your Brother machine appears in the list on the screen.
1 Even if you have printed with USB connection, you need to install the printer driver for network connection. 2  Choose Use your computer or control panel directly and then click Next. 3  Choose Temporarily use a USB cable (Recommended) and click Next. 4  Confirm you have the wireless security information. 1 Choose Wireless Network Connection and then click Next. 2  The screen for choosing your Brother machine may appear. 3  If the screen does not appear, continue to STEP e. 4  Check if your Brother machine appears in the list on the screen.
1 Choose Wireless Network Connection and then click Next. 2  Choose Brother Peer-to-Peer Network Printer, and then click Next. 3  If the Firewall/AntiVirus detected screen appears, choose Change the Firewall port settings to enable network connection and continue with the installation. 1 Even if you have printed with USB connection, you need to install the printer driver for network connection. 2  Choose No and then click Next. 3  Confirm you have the wireless security information. 4  Check the Checked and Confirmed box and click Next. 5  Choose Temporarily use a USB cable (Recommended)
NOTE If you want to manually enter the IP address settings of your printer, click Change IP Address and enter the necessary IP address settings for your network. 15 Disconnect the network cable between your access point (hub or router) and the printer, and click Next. NOTE SETUP is the default SSID of the printer. Do not choose this SSID. If the list is blank, check that the access point has power and is broadcasting the SSID, and then see if the printer and the access point are within range for wireless communication.
1 From the printer’s control panel, open the Wireless Settings menu. 2  Many products provide access to the Wireless Settings by pressing the Wireless Button or touching the Wireless icon on the printer’s control panel. 3  Consult the printer’s help documentation if you do not know how to access the Wireless Settings menu. To configure the new wireless settings on a printer that features a Wireless Setup Wizard: 1 
Overview. To connect your printer to your wireless network, you need to follow the steps in the Quick Setup Guide or the Network User’s Guide. We recommend that you use the Brother installer application on the CD-ROM which we have provided with the printer. If you want to configure your printer without using the Brother installer application, please read this chapter for more details on how to configure the wireless network settings. For information on TCP/IP settings, see Setting the IP address and subnet mask.
1 If you cannot find your Brother machine from the list, click Wireless Setup to configure the wireless settings. 2  Continue to STEP 4. 3  If you can find your Brother machine, choose your Brother machine from the list. 4  Then click Next and follow the on-screen instructions to install the printer driver for network connection. 1 Even if you have printed with USB connection, you need to install the printer driver for network connection. 2  Choose No and then click Next. 3  Confirm you have the wireless security information. 4  Check the Checked and Confirmed box and click Next. 5  Choose Temporarily use a USB cable (Recommended)