An oil refinery in Mina-Al-Ahmadi, Kuwait. This list of oil fields includes some major oil fields of the past and present. The list is incomplete; there are more than 65,000 oil and gas fields of all sizes in the world. However, 94% of known oil is concentrated in fewer than 1500 giant and major fields. Most of the world's largest oilfields are located in the Middle East. Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production), given historical production and current extraction technology. 
Lekoil: Production starts from Otakikpo field (Nigeria). zoom. Lekoil has announced the start of oil production from the Otakikpo Marginal Field (“Otakikpo”) in oil mining lease (OML) 11 which is located on the shoreline in the south-eastern part of the Niger Delta. The second production well, Otakikpo-003, is expected to come on stream around year end. The company said it would disclose further operational details during the presentation of its Half Year Results which will be published by September 30, 2015.
Otakikpo-002 will now be temporarily suspended to allow completion and testing of the upper C5 zone following which an official well-test programme will commence and the rig will move to start re-entry operations on Otakikpo-003. During the well test, oil will flow into onshore storage tanks. The second production well, Otakikpo-003, is expected to come on stream around year end. The company said it would disclose further operational details during the presentation of its Half Year Results which will be published by September 30, 2015.
Otakikpo-002 will now be temporarily suspended to allow completion and testing of the upper C5 zone following which an official well-test programme will commence and the rig will move to start re-entry operations on Otakikpo-003. The Otakikpo-002 well produced from only the first of four planned production strings, and flowed oil at various choke sizes for over 24 hours at a peak rate of 5,703bopd at a 36/64 inch choke, significantly ahead of expectations.
AIM-listed Lekoil, the oil and gas exploration and production company with a focus on Nigeria and West Africa more generally, has announced the start of oil production from the Otakikpo Marginal Field in oil mining lease OML 11 which is located on the shore line in the south-eastern part of the Niger Delta. The Otakikpo-002 well produced from only the first of four planned production strings, and flowed oil at various choke sizes for over 24 hours at a peak rate of 5,703bopd at a 36/64 inch choke, significantly ahead of expectations.
The most recent 2C reserves estimates for Otakikpo are 36 mmbbl of oil and 31 Bcf of gas (14 mmbbl and 12 Bcf net to Lekoil Nigeria). The Company believes that Otakikpo could be brought into production within 12 to 18 months of commencement of the work programme. It is expected that Admission will become effective and that dealings in the Placing Shares will commence on AIM at 8.00 a.m. on 27 May 2014. Participation in, and principal terms of, the Placing Mirabaud and UBS are arranging the Placing as agents for and on behalf of the Company.
Green Energy International Limited (GEIL) is an indigenous oil and gas company. Recently awarded the Otakikpo marginal field located on the NNPC/SPDC joint venture’s OML 11 in Rivers State Nigeria. GEIL intends to use the marginal field as a mechanism for creating localised domestic market based on small scale gas opportunities, GEIL objectives are in tandem with Government policies on local content, community empowerment and zero gas flare.
Otakikpo Field is located in oil mining lease (OML) 17 while Ubima Creek Field is in OML 11, both Shell OMLs. The muted auction for the two fields is unsurprising given the circumstances of their award in non-competitive allocations in 2010 to Green Energy and All Grace Energy respectively under the Obasanjo presidency. 
1 Located in swamp location in OML 11, adjacent to shoreline. 2  Lekoil to acquire 40% interest from Green Energy. 3  Lekoil will be the Technical and Financial Partner, opportunity to showcase Lekoil’s ability to operate assets. 1 2C recoverable resource estimates of 56.75mmbbls. 2  This compares to the 36 mmbbl of gross oil resources in the most recent 2C resource estimates available at the time of the Company’s acquisition of the interest in Otakikpo in May 2014. 3  Click here to see Competent Persons Report