Fortunately, eating certain foods can help boost the effectiveness of your thyroid — a little butterfly-shaped gland in your neck with a big role in how well your body works. The thyroid produces hormones that regulate mood, metabolism, energy levels, body temperature, heart rate, and blood pressure.
Along with taking your thyroid medication, you can bolster thyroid function with a well-balanced diet that includes lots of produce and protein, among other healthy foods, says Gregory B. Dodell, MD, an endocrinologist in New York City. The next time you're at the grocery store, look for these seven nutrient-rich foods.
Fish and shell fish are also a food that aids your thyroid. It is a good choice of food rich in iodine. It is also a great source of protein and omega-3 fatty acids. This, however, can be a hard food to eat if you don’t like it. Fish is one of those foods that would be hard to develop a taste for.
Iodine combines with the amino acid tyrosine to produce thyroid hormones. Fish, dairy, oats, sesame seeds, bananas, avocados, and almonds are all good sources of tyrosine. Some goitrogenic foods such as mustard greens, soybeans, spinach, and cabbage are also high in tyrosine.
Yogurt is one food that is good for your thyroid. Yogurt is rich in calcium and it also contains iodine. There you have two sources that not only taste great together, but they are among the good foods for thyroid. By eating just a cup of each, you will be providing your body and thyroid with approximately 100 micro grams of iodine.
People who are taking thyroid medications should avoid foods made of soy because soy can interfere with the proper absorption of the medicine. While soy does not have to be avoided completely, patients taking thyroid medicines should wait at least four hours after taking the medicine to eat any soy products.
Blueberries are another great food to eat for low thyroid function. Add blueberries to your daily thyroid diet plan. They are packed with antioxidants, vitamins such as Vitamin C, B complex, Vitamin E, Vitamin A, selenium, iron, zinc. and copper. The blueberry is believed to help reduce the fat in the belly area.
Whole Grains. Constipation is a common symptom of hypothyroidism. Whole-grain foods such as cereal, bread, pasta, and rice are high in nutrients in addition to fiber, which can help with bowel regularity. However, fiber can interfere with synthetic thyroid hormones, cautions Turner.