The vast majority of babies sprout their first tooth when they're between 4 and 7 months old. An early developer may get his first white cap as early as 3 months, while a late bloomer may have to wait until he's a year old or more. 
Most babies get their first tooth at around 6 months, but your child's chompers may appear as early as 3 months or as late as 14, depending on such factors as when Mom and Dad started sprouting teeth and whether or not your baby was a preemie (preemies tend to teethe on the late side). 
Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first. Upper front teeth usually come in 1 to 2 months after the lower front teeth. 1 Use a clean finger (or cold teething ring) to gently rub your baby's gum for about 2 minutes at a time. 2  Many babies find this soothing, although they may protest at first.
While you were pregnant, your baby developed tooth buds, the foundation for baby teeth (also called milk teeth). Very rarely, a baby is born with a tooth or two, or grows a tooth in the first few weeks of life. But the vast majority of babies sprout their first tooth sometime between 4 and 7 months old. Teething does not cause a fever, vomiting, or diarrhea. If your baby has these or any other worrisome symptoms, don’t just chalk it up to teething. Give his doctor a call. Most babies get new teeth in this order: The bottom two middle ones first, then the top two middle ones, then the ones along the sides and back.
The onset of teething symptoms typically precedes the eruption of a tooth by several days. While a baby's first tooth can appear between 4 and 10 months of age, the first tooth usually erupts at approximately 6 months of age. Some dentists have noted a family pattern of early, average, or late teethers. 1 Teething is the process by which a baby's teeth erupt, or break through, the gums. 2  Teething generally occurs between 6 to 24 months of age. 3  Symptoms of teething include irritability, tender and swollen gums, and the infant wanting to place objects or fingers into the mouth in an attempt to reduce discomfort.
Symptoms of teething may start to appear 2-3 months before your baby starts to sprout teeth, though the severity of symptoms will vary greatly from child to child. Symptoms. Descriptions. Gnawing on objects. Many begin with gnawing on you or objects they are holding. Early developing babies may see their first white cap at around 3 months but late bloomers may not start to get teeth until they are over a year old. Whenever the first tooth appears it is worth being celebrated as a milestone.
The following chart shows when your child's primary teeth (also called baby teeth or deciduous teeth) should erupt and shed. Eruption times vary from child to child. As seen from the chart, the first teeth begin to break through the gums at about 6 months of age. 
Babies may begin teething as early as 3 months old, or well after their first birthday, but 6 months of age is a fairly common time for teething to begin. Your child's behavior may clue you in to when it's almost time for a tooth to emerge, or erupt, through the gums. 
When to Expect Teething to Begin. Most babies' teeth begin to erupt between the ages of 4 to 6 months, though for some it may be earlier or later, Dr. Josen says. And no matter what Grandma says, when your child's first tooth pops in, it has nothing to do with smarts. The age the baby cuts his or her first tooth depends on family history of teething and nothing more, says Jill Lasky, D.D.S., a pediatric dentist at Lasky Pediatric Dental Group in Los Angeles.
Teething is the process by which an infant 's first teeth (the deciduous teeth, often called baby teeth or milk teeth) sequentially appear by emerging through the gums, typically arriving in pairs. Teething may start as early as six months or as late as eight months. 