Deoxygenated blood entering the heart through veins from the tissues of the body first enters the heart through the right atrium before being pumped into the right ventricle. The right atrium is one of the two atria of the heart, which function as receiving chambers for blood entering the heart. Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax.
Pulmonary circulation is the movement of blood from the heart, to the lungs, and back to the heart again. Deoxygenated blood leaves the heart, goes to the lungs, and then re-enters the heart; Deoxygenated blood leaves through the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery. From the right atrium, the blood is pumped through the tricuspid valve (or right atrioventricular valve), into the right ventricle. Oxygen-rich blood is shown in red; oxygen-depleted blood in blue. Pulmonary circulation is the portion of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated (oxygen-rich) blood back to the heart. The term pulmonary circulation is readily paired and contrasted with the systemic circulation
Blood Vessels: Arteries: These are large blood vessels that take oxygenated blood away from the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The aorta is the body's largest artery. Veins: These blood vessels take deoxygenated blood from around the body back to the heart and lungs to be oxygenated. Capillaries: These tiny blood vessels are where the exchange of oxygen and nutrients take place. The nutrients and oxygen are exchanged for wastes that are taken from the cells. 
1 2. 2  Arteries carry blood away from the heart. 3  Right side of heart receives deoxygenated blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs to pick up oxygen and release carbon dioxide. 1 Right side of heart receives deoxygenated blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs to pick up oxygen and release carbon dioxide.\n \n3.\n \nLeft side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it to the body.\n \n4.\n \nBOTH pumps work simultaneously.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: When the blood leaves the heart, it is carrying oxygen that it gathered from gas exchange in the lungs. As the blood leaves the aorta, it goes to the head and neck or the lower part of the body to bring the oxygen to the cells that need it. The oxygen is exchanged in the capillaries where oxygen is given to the tissues and the blood collects the carbon dioxide from them. De oxygenated is blue because it does not have any oxygen in it.
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium of the heart via the venae cavae. It then enters the right ventricle and from here leaves via the pulmonary artery to the lungs. Peter S · 7 years ago. 
Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood to the heart. Pulmonary veins are responsible for carrying oxygenated blood from the lungs back to the left atrium of the heart. This differentiates the pulmonary veins from other veins in the body, which are used to carry deoxygenated blood from the rest of the body back to the heart. 
1 Arteries carry blood away from the heart. 2  Right side of heart receives deoxygenated blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs to pick up oxygen and release carbon dioxide. 1 Right side of heart receives deoxygenated blood from the body and pumps it to the lungs to pick up oxygen and release carbon dioxide.\n \n3.\n \nLeft side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it to the body.\n \n4.\n \nBOTH pumps work simultaneously.