A probation for a felony possession charge is about the same as probation for a misdemeanor in most cases. A felony conviction for possession of marijuana also carries a fine of up to a maximum of $100,000. However, there is not likely to be a very high fine, but there will be court costs, lab fees, etc.
Possession of marijuana for personal use is generally considered a misdemeanor, although possessing more than 30 grams at a time has more serious penalties than posessing smaller amounts. Selling marijuana is a felony in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania also doesn’t allow the possession or sale of marijuana paraphernalia.
Possession of marijuana in Florida carries a potential jail sentence regardless of whether the possession is for personal use or sale. Possession of up to 2o grams of marijuana is a misdemeanor charge. Most other possession charges lead to felony convictions if the amount of pot in possession is more than 20 grams. Cultivating more than 25 plants is considered intention to sell in Florida, which is a felony.
Under the laws of Kansas, possession of marijuana for personal use may be charged as a misdemeanor or a felony depending on the circumstances. A first time charge of possession of marijuana in Kansas is a Class A misdemeanor, which means that a conviction is punishable by up to 12 months in jail and a $2,500 fine.
Distribution of a small amount of marijuana, for no remuneration, is treated as possession. Manufacture or distribution of less than 50 plants or 50 kilograms of marijuana is punishable by up to five years in prison and a fine of up to $250,000.
Possession with Intent is a felony in Kansas. The amount of marijuana possessed or sold controls the severity level of the felony. Less than 25 grams is a Level 4 felony. 25 grams to 450 grams is a Level 3 severity level felony. 450 grams to 30 kilograms is a Level 2, and 30 kilos or more is a Level 1.
Possession of marijuana may be treated as either a misdemanor or a felony in Pennsylvania, depending on how much marijuana is in your possession at the time of arrest and whether you intended to sell the marijuana rather than possessing it for personal use.
For example, a person arrested for possessing more than 30 grams of marijuana may be sentenced to two years in jail and a fine of $10,000 if it is his or her second offense. Selling marijuana is a felony rather than a misdemeanor, and is therefore punishable by time in prison rather than jail.