The “at home” drugs will be checked with whatever medications the patient is prescribed in the hospital to make sure the medications can be taken safely together. Called “medication reconciliation,” this process should occur every time a patient is admitted into the hospital. 1 Of the 879 medication error reports submitted about patients taking their own medications from home while in the hospital, 77.7% of the events reached the patient and 2.1% of the events resulted in patient harm.
1 Patients were unaware of which medications were prescribed or given to them. 2  Patients were unaware that their medications were temporarily stopped. 3  Patients were unaware of that the directions for a particular medication were different in the hospital compared to at home. 1 Of the 879 medication error reports submitted about patients taking their own medications from home while in the hospital, 77.7% of the events reached the patient and 2.1% of the events resulted in patient harm.
General Rules for Transplant Medications. Do not take any prescribed or over-the-counter drugs without making sure these will not interact with the transplant medications. Do not take any herbal medications as their interactions with the transplant medications are unknown. Patients should always check with their transplant physician before any new medicine is taken. Store all transplant medications at room temperature unless otherwise indicated on the medication container. Since bathrooms have moisture, the bathroom medicine cabinet is not a good place to store medications. Some patients have no side effects. Some patients get sick with the first two doses. Patients who have shortness of breath, wheezing, or chest pain should tell their doctor immediately. Drug Interactions with Thymoglobulin: To date, there are no known drugs that interact with Thymoglobulin.
Pain Medication at Home. When you are ready to leave the hospital, your doctor may prescribe pain medication for you to take when you are home. These prescriptions may or may not be the same pain medication that you took in the hospital. Because it's important for your healing and recovery, you should take your home medication according to your doctor's instructions.
For more information about the risks of patients taking their own medications while in the hospital, go to the June 2012 Patient Safety Advisory article, “Patients Taking Their Own Medications While in the Hospital,” at the Authority’s website www.patientsafetyauthority.org. 1 Of the 879 medication error reports submitted about patients taking their own medications from home while in the hospital, 77.7% of the events reached the patient and 2.1% of the events resulted in patient harm.
A) Find out the reason for the patient’s reaction B) Explain to the patient the importance of taking the drug C) Report the patient’s action to the nurse in charge (You answered) D) Chart that the patient refused to take the medication. Follow. 
When you fill a prescription, check the patient name on the label and let the pharmacist know if there is a change. in the color, size, taste, or shape of your medication. Never take anyone else’s prescription medication. Also, never give or share your medication to others. Be aware of other medications a patient is taken when prescribing. √ Keep an accurate medication list (including over-the-counter and complementary and alternative medications). √. Keep an accurate medication list (including over-the-counter and.
Of the hospitals not allowing the use of personal medications, 42.9% sent the medications home with the patient’s family member or friend, 28.6% stored them on the nursing unit until the patient was discharged, and another 14.3% stored them in the pharmacy until the patient was discharged. 1. 1 To obtain an accurate medication list for medication reconciliation. 2  To provide a drug that is on the hospital’s formulary. 3  To avoid an interruption in therapy. 4  To save money. 5  To ease anxiety over the loss of self-control of their care.
If you're baffled by how many of your patients, particularly those with chronic conditions, don't take their medications as prescribed -- if at all -- you're not alone. Doctors from coast to coast feel frustrated by the same thing. 
1 The hospital defines when medications brought into the hospital by patients or their families cannot be administered. 2  After the use or administration of a medication brought into the hospital by a patient, the hospital identifies the medication and visually evaluates the medication’s integrity. 1 To obtain an accurate medication list for medication reconciliation. 2  To provide a drug that is on the hospital’s formulary. 3  To avoid an interruption in therapy. 4  To save money. 5  To ease anxiety over the loss of self-control of their care.