The gospel of Jesus Christ is of great importance especially to those that aren't saved. However, it is equally important to the saved because it is the foundation of the Christian faith. In it lies the secret of the Kingdom of God, namely, that God wants us to be with Him. You don't realize how important the gospel is because it is in a sense the key to the Kingdom of God. Jesus said that we could only enter or even conceive of the Kingdom of God if we are born again (John 3:5-8). We cannot be born again unless we hear the gospel of Christ. Consider what Paul said.
The Gospel of John was written to prove that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. As an eyewitness to the love and power displayed in the miracles of Jesus, John gives us an up-close and personal look at Christ's identity. Themes in the Gospel of John: The predominant theme in the book of John is the revelation of God to man through his living illustration—Jesus Christ, the Word made flesh. The opening verses beautifully describe Jesus as the Word. He is God revealed to man—the expression of God—so that we might see him and believe.
The Gospel According to John (also referred to as the Gospel of John, the Fourth Gospel, or simply John; Greek: τὸ κατὰ ἰωάννην εὐαγγέλιον, to kata Ioannen euangelion) is one of the four canonical gospels in the Christian Bible. The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books, along with the Book of Revelation, as a single body of Johannine literature. According to most modern scholars, however, the apostle John was not the author of any of these books.
O f the four gospels, John’s gospel presents Jesus as God most forcefully. John explicitly declared Jesus to be God (John 1.1) who brought all things into existence (John 1.3). John’s gospel confirmed that Jesus was YHVH of the Jews (John 8.57-58). He is light (John 1.4, 8.12) and life (John 1.4, 5.26, 14.6). Jews were saved during Jesus’ ministry and the ministry of the Twelve by believing in Christ as the Messiah and Son of God. This is what believing in Jesus meant. No one is saved today by believing that Christ is Israel’s Messiah or that He is God. 2 A passage such as John 3.16 has nothing to do with the gospel today.
The Kingdom Program. The synoptic gospels (Matthew, Mark, and Luke), present Jesus as the King of the Jews who proclaimed the kingdom of God (Matthew 4.17, 9.35). John the Baptist and the Twelve also proclaimed this kingdom message. But in John’s gospel, the King and His kingdom are practically absent. Jews were saved during Jesus’ ministry and the ministry of the Twelve by believing in Christ as the Messiah and Son of God. This is what believing in Jesus meant. No one is saved today by believing that Christ is Israel’s Messiah or that He is God. 2 A passage such as John 3.16 has nothing to do with the gospel today.
1 The Gospel of John gives no account of the Nativity of Jesus, unlike Matthew and Luke, and his mother, while frequently mentioned, is never identified by name. 2  John does assert that Jesus was known as the son of Joseph  in 6:42. The gospel is closely related in style and content to the three surviving Epistles of John such that commentators treat the four books, along with the Book of Revelation, as a single body of Johannine literature. According to most modern scholars, however, the apostle John was not the author of any of these books.
John's gospel is different from the other three. In fact, Matthew, Mark, and Luke are called the synoptic Gospels because they are so similar. However, John presents Jesus in a different light from the other three. Additionally, John wrote the epistles of John and the Book of Revelation. 
The Gospel of John is one of four gospels in the Holy Bible and is the fourth book in chronological order presented in the New Testament. The Gospel of John is a unique perspective of the life of Jesus Christ. The Gospel of John presents many important lessons for living life on earth and determining our eternal destiny after we die. First, the book clearly establishes that Jesus Christ is the Jewish Messiah that was prophesied in the Old Testament of the Bible.