The gopher tortoise is a moderate-sized, terrestrial turtle, averaging 23–28 cm (9–11 in) in length. The species is identified by its stumpy, elephantine hind feet and flattened, shovel-like forelimbs adapted for digging. The shell is oblong and generally tan, brown, or gray in coloration. Gopher tortoises can live 40 to 60 years in the wild. Gopher tortoises are ancient: their ancestors are a species of land tortoise that originated in western North America some 60 million years ago. 
Behavior. Gopher tortoises are one of the few species of tortoise that dig burrows. These burrows can be up to ten feet deep and 40 feet long, and are as wide as the length of the tortoise that made it. The burrow is integral to the tortoise’s survival. 
The gopher tortoise is a representative of the genus Gopherus, which contains the only tortoises native to North America. The taking of gopher tortoises for sale or use as food or pets has also had a serious effect on some populations. The seriousness of the loss of adult tortoises is magnified by the length of time required for tortoises to reach maturity and their low reproductive rate.
Gopher tortoises, for the most part, are herbivorous animals. Some typical elements of the gopher tortoise diet are berries, fruit, spurge, pines, herbs, beech, peas, daisies, asters and grass. Low plants are a particular favorite for gopher tortoises, especially those that appear under strong sun. One of their preferred grasses is wire grass. These sizable reptiles are known as gopher tortoises thanks to their burrowing habits. Gopher tortoises are found in the United States' southeastern region, including Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, South Carolina, Louisiana and Georgia.
The tortoises eat only plants. they find their food using their sight and nose. Once they find their food they sniff it and start chomping away.Mostly they eat many grasses as their diet.The tortoises don't have teeth just beaks to eat their food.Then they use their tongues to bring food into its mouth. Tortoises really don't search for water unless there is a drought.
The gopher tortoise (Gopherus polyphemus) is a species of the Gopherus genus native to the southeastern United States. The gopher tortoise is seen as a keystone species because it digs burrows that provide shelter for 360 other animal species. They are threatened by predation and habitat destruction. The taking of gopher tortoises for sale or use as food or pets has also had a serious effect on some populations. The seriousness of the loss of adult tortoises is magnified by the length of time required for tortoises to reach maturity and their low reproductive rate.
Gopher tortoises eat many things. They eat grasses, weeds, herbs, fruits, mushrooms, pads, and flowers of prickly pear cactus. Some of thier favorite foods are gopher apple and saw palmetto berries. They will also eat bones from dead animals. Once they find their food they sniff it and start chomping away.Mostly they eat many grasses as their diet.The tortoises don't have teeth just beaks to eat their food.Then they use their tongues to bring food into its mouth. Tortoises really don't search for water unless there is a drought.
Gopher tortoises, like other tortoises of the genus Gopherus, are known for their digging ability. Gopher tortoises spend most of their time in long burrows, up to 14.5 metres (48 ft) in length and 3 metres (9.8 ft) deep. The taking of gopher tortoises for sale or use as food or pets has also had a serious effect on some populations. The seriousness of the loss of adult tortoises is magnified by the length of time required for tortoises to reach maturity and their low reproductive rate.
Gopherus is a genus of tortoises commonly referred to as gopher tortoises. The gopher tortoise is grouped with land tortoises that originated 60 million years ago, in North America. A genetic study has shown that their closest relatives are in the Asian genus Manouria. Gopher tortoises are so named because of their ability to dig large, deep burrows; those of the Gopher tortoise can be up to 40 feet (12 m) in length and 10 feet (3.0 m) in depth. These burrows are used by a variety of other species, including mammals, other reptiles, amphibians, and birds.