[Fussilat 41:12] See ye not how Allah has created the seven heavens one above another. [Nuh 71:15] …and His Throne was over the Waters… [Hud 11:7] …His Throne doth extend over the heavens and the earth… [al-Baqarah 2:255] And the angels will be on its sides and eight will that Day bear the Throne of thy Lord above them. To Him belong the Most Beautiful Names: Whatever is in the heavens and on earth, doth declare His Praises and Glory, and He is the Exalted in Might, The Wise. [Al Hashr 59:24]. Some reference from the Hadiths: It was narrated that the Prophet told us about one of the angels who carries the ‘Arsh.
9 “It is not a belief of the Muslims that ‘ Arsh (or the Throne) is anything physical and created on which God is sitting. Read the Holy Quran in its entirety and you will find nowhere that God’s ‘Arsh or Throne is limited or something created. A beautiful and magnificent throne is also mentioned in the Holy Quran, in Surah Al Naml that belonged to the Queen of Saba. It is written that Hazrat Suleiman () ordered to construct a throne that was even better and grander than the throne of
(By evening) they return to the lanterns (qanadil) hung by the `Arsh .”. The Qur’an informs us that on the Day of Judgment “it will be borne by eight;” about which Ibn `Abbas said that those will be eight rows of angels whose numbers are unknown. Qurtubi remarked that in truth none bears the bearers of the `Arsh but Allah. When used in the sense of a throne, `Arsh throws up two connotations: that of (i) a high chair, and (ii) one from which authority issues which implies the additional connotation of dominion and authority.
Allah, the Exalted, described Himself in the Torah too that He is above His creatures. Ka'bul-Ahbar said: Allah, azzawajall, said in the Torah, 'I, Allah Am above My slaves, and My 'Arsh is above My creatures, and I am upon My 'Arsh running the affairs of My slaves. The Qur'an is full of proofs relevant to the Loftiness of Allah. Ahlus-Sunnah wal-Jama'ah believe in and confirm all of the attributes of Allah without distorting their meaning, and that Allah is above His seven heavens, above His 'Arsh, and separated from His creatures, and His creatures are separated from Him.
For this very reason in the Holy Quran His Throne has also been called, as Arsh-il-Azeem () (9: 129) , Arsh-il-Kareem () (23:117), And Arsh-il-Majeed () (85:16) That is, the Mighty Throne, the Glorious Throne, and the Throne of Honor. A beautiful and magnificent throne is also mentioned in the Holy Quran, in Surah Al Naml that belonged to the Queen of Saba. It is written that Hazrat Suleiman () ordered to construct a throne that was even better and grander than the throne of
2 In this verse of Surah Al-A’raf () the Holy Quran declares that after creating the heavens and the earth, after creating everything that exists – living and non-living, Allah (subhanaho wa ta’ala) settled Himself on His Throne. A beautiful and magnificent throne is also mentioned in the Holy Quran, in Surah Al Naml that belonged to the Queen of Saba. It is written that Hazrat Suleiman () ordered to construct a throne that was even better and grander than the throne of
Whereas the Loftiness of Allah which is clearly enunciated in the Qur'an and the Sunnah, is beyond the reach of reason. The true believers, contrary to the rationalists, believe that the 'Arsh of Allah is above the seven heavens. The Qur'an is full of proofs relevant to the Loftiness of Allah. Ahlus-Sunnah wal-Jama'ah believe in and confirm all of the attributes of Allah without distorting their meaning, and that Allah is above His seven heavens, above His 'Arsh, and separated from His creatures, and His creatures are separated from Him.
This special relationship is referred to in Surah Hud where it is mentioned that Allah’s ‘Arsh – or Allah’s Throne is sitting upon water: “ And He it is Who created the heavens and the earth in six periods, --- and His Throne rests on water --- that He might try you which of you is best in conduct…” (11:8). A beautiful and magnificent throne is also mentioned in the Holy Quran, in Surah Al Naml that belonged to the Queen of Saba. It is written that Hazrat Suleiman () ordered to construct a throne that was even better and grander than the throne of
A. Allah (Exalted be He) rose over His `Arsh and is high above His creation, according to Ahl-ul-Sunnah wal-Jama`ah. All the messengers (peace be upon them) taught that Allah rose over His `Arsh and is above all the Creation. Allah (Exalted be He) states: The Most Gracious (All h) rose over (Istaw) the (Mighty) Throne (in a manner that suits His Majesty). 
Praise be to Allaah. The Kursiy is the footstool of the Most Merciful, according to the most correct of the scholarly opinions on the matter. The ‘Arsh (Throne) is the greatest of all things that Allaah has created, over which our Lord rose in a manner that befits His Majesty. All created things, the heavens and the earth and all that is in them and in between them are beneath the Throne of Allaah and are subject to His power. His knowledge encompasses all things and His power controls all things, and He is Watcher over all things.