Alcohol abuse, especially binge drinking, causes surprisingly long-lasting harm to memory and other brain functions. Unmasking Alzheimer's. To figure out what causes Alzheimer's disease and find a way to cure it, first you have to be able to see it. The bottom line is that preventing alcohol use and abuse in adolescence can make a huge impact on what happens later, Swartzwelder emphasizes. Every year you can postpone the initiation of drinking, you decrease the likelihood that person will have alcohol problems for the rest of his life.
Memory Loss and Binge Drinking. “Symptoms such as blurred vision and slower reaction times are a good indication on the effect alcohol has on a person’s brain.” An NIAAA study found that most cases of memory loss occurred because of binge drinking, or drinking large quantities of alcohol very quickly. The Effects of Alcohol on Your Memory. Symptoms such as blurred vision and slower reaction times are a good indication on the effect alcohol has on a person’s brain. However, the Virginia Tech website believes the effects of alcohol on your memory are much more serious.
Mental Reasons to Quit Drinking Alcohol: Your brain will heal; you will become more mentally alert; your memory will improve; your resolve strengthened; your self-esteem will rise; you will feel free from addictions that have kept you down in the past; you will be fully aware of your surroundings. A great way to do this is to make a list of these benefits, and refer to it often to reinforce your commitment to removing alcohol from your life. Here are a few good reasons to stop drinking to get you started down the road to a healthier lifestyle:
You may have dozens of other reasons to quit drinking alcohol – and all of them are good. Remember, the more reasons you have for doing something, the more likely it is that you will do it. And by focusing on these positive reasons, you empower yourself to take action to change your life for the better. A great way to do this is to make a list of these benefits, and refer to it often to reinforce your commitment to removing alcohol from your life. Here are a few good reasons to stop drinking to get you started down the road to a healthier lifestyle:
I thought it would be interesting to look at the changes you might expect AFTER you have quit drinking. From my own experience, there are 5 distinct improvements you will notice when you remove alcohol from your life. This video is based on my article 5 Things That Will Improve When You Quit Drinking Alcohol which can be found at: http://stopdrinkingalcohol.com/5-thin...
5. A healthy diet might be as good for your brain as it is for your heart. Eat fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Choose low-fat protein sources, such as fish, lean meat and skinless poultry. What you drink counts, too. Not enough water or too much alcohol can lead to confusion and memory loss. Eat a healthy diet. A healthy diet might be as good for your brain as it is for your heart. Eat fruits, vegetables and whole grains. Choose low-fat protein sources, such as fish, lean meat and skinless poultry. What you drink counts, too. Not enough water or too much alcohol can lead to confusion and memory loss.
Other things you can do. The following are other ideas that can help in your plan to stop using alcohol: 1  Avoid stumbling blocks. 2  Many things can interfere with meeting your goal to cut down on or stop drinking. 3  If your current life revolves around alcohol use, you might need to choose new friends or a new lifestyle. 
So cutting down on alcohol should help you feel more rested when you wake up. Behaviour Drinking can affect your judgement and behaviour. You may behave irrationally or aggressively when you’re drunk. Memory loss can be a problem during drinking and in the long term for regular heavy drinkers. Make a plan. Before you start drinking, set a limit on how much you’re going to drink. Set a budget. Only take a fixed amount of money to spend on alcohol. Let them know If you let your friends and family know you’re cutting down and that it’s important to you, you could get support from them.
First of all, I have to say that quit smoking is not just to improve the way you look, but to get a better way of living. Anyway, if you want to know how long will take to improve your health, after quit smoking, and when will your skin and your general body look better, I have the answer. After five or six weeks of quitting, you skin will gain softness and smoothness. You can help the process by drinking water, in order to rehydrate it. 