Symptoms. Symptoms of prion diseases include: Rapidly developing dementia. Difficulty walking and changes in gait. Hallucinations. Muscle stiffness. Confusion. Fatigue. Difficulty speaking. Doctors, however, can do a number of tests to help diagnose prion diseases such as CJD, or to rule out other diseases with similar symptoms. These tests include: MRI scans of the brain. Samples of fluid from the spinal cord (spinal tap).
Prion diseases, such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, occur when prion protein, which is found throughout the body but whose normal function isn't yet known, begins folding into an abnormal three-dimensional shape. This shape change gradually triggers prion protein in the brain to fold into the same abnormal shape. Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease has no known cause. Most scientists believe the disease begins when prion protein somewhere in the brain spontaneously misfolds, triggering a domino effect that misfolds prion protein throughout the brain.
Several conditions fall under the term prion diseases. A prion is a type of protein that can trigger normal proteins in the brain to fold abnormally. Prion diseases can affect both humans and animals and are sometimes transmitted to humans by infected meat products. The most common form of prion disease that affects humans is Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). Doctors, however, can do a number of tests to help diagnose prion diseases such as CJD, or to rule out other diseases with similar symptoms. These tests include: MRI scans of the brain. Samples of fluid from the spinal cord (spinal tap).
Prions and Prion disease. Prion diseases, also known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE's) are a group of progressive neurodegenerative conditions. These illnesses exist in both animals and humans. Scrapie, a disease affecting sheep and goats, was the first prion disease to be identified in the 1730s. Prion diseases are associated with the build up in the brain (and some other organs) of an abnormal or ‘rogue’ form of a naturally occurring cellular protein, known as the prion protein. The rogue protein results from a change in shape of the normal
Familial prion diseases, which have overlapping signs and symptoms, include familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), Gerstmann-Straeussler-Sträussler scheinker (SYNDROME), gss and fatal familial (INSOMNIA). Ffi THE prnp gene provides instructions for making a protein called prion (PrP). prp The loss of these cells creates microscopic sponge-like holes (vacuoles) in the brain, which leads to the signs and symptoms of prion disease. The other 85 to 90 percent of cases of prion disease are classified as either sporadic or acquired.
Because they can run in families, these forms of prion disease are classified as familial. Familial prion diseases, which have overlapping signs and symptoms, include familial Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), Gerstmann-Straeussler-Sträussler scheinker (SYNDROME), gss and fatal familial (INSOMNIA). ffi The loss of these cells creates microscopic sponge-like holes (vacuoles) in the brain, which leads to the signs and symptoms of prion disease. The other 85 to 90 percent of cases of prion disease are classified as either sporadic or acquired.
Caring for a Person with Prion Disease. Whilst there is no proven treatment for prion disease, it is possible to alleviate specific symptoms through medication, other therapies, trying out different caring strategies and adapting the environment. 
(Redirected from Prion disease). Transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs), also known as prion diseases, are a group of progressive conditions (encephalopathies) that affect the brain and nervous system of many animals, including humans. 
Prion diseases are caused by misfolded forms of the prion protein, also known as PrP. These diseases affect a lot of different mammals in addition to humans – for instance, there is scrapie in sheep, mad cow disease in cows, and chronic wasting disease in deer. 