Supplementation can be helpful too. One of the most important supplements to help reduce intraocular pressure is magnesium. Magnesium helps create relaxation in the arteries of the eyes. Foods high in magnesium include bananas, dried apricots, avocados, almonds, cashews, peas, beans, green leafy vegetables.
Just as you reduce stress to reduce your blood pressure, you should try reducing stress in order to reduce your eye pressure as elevated levels of stress have been linked with elevated eye pressure. Physicians report that stress is a rising concern for people in all types of jobs.
Avoid trans fats. As mentioned above, omega-3 fatty acids help to reduce intraocular pressure. However, foods that are high in trans fats prevent the omega-3s from working properly, which can lead to increased eye pressure. 1  As a result, it's a good idea to limit your intake of foods rich in
When eye pressure increases, ocular nerves can become damaged, leading to a loss of peripheral vision as well as the possibility of contracting glaucoma. Maintaining eye pressure in the normal range of 10 to 22 mm/Hg can be helped along by eating foods with nutrients that contribute to blood vessel and nerve health.
The changes that help to lower the intraocular pressure are lifestyle adjustments. Recommended foods include fruits and vegetables that are high in antioxidants, especially vitamin C and flavonoids, and cold-water fish that have high content of omega 3 fatty acids.
These high insulin levels have been linked to increased eye pressure. 1  To solve this problem, patients are advised to avoid certain foods that can trigger an abrupt increase in insulin levels. 2  These foods include: sugar, grains (whole and organic), breads, pasta, rice, cereal and potatoes.
Just like we can have high blood pressure, we can have high eye pressure. Glaucoma is usually caused by elevated or high intraocular eye pressure. This high amount of pressure damages the optic nerves and leads to the main symptoms, such as a loss of peripheral vision, of glaucoma.