The Hebrew Bible, or Torah, states that God revealed the design for the menorah to Moses and describes the construction of the menorah as follows (Exodus 25:31-40): 31 Make a lampstand of pure gold. Hammer out its base and shaft, and make its flowerlike cups, buds and blossoms of one piece with them. The menorah has been a symbol of Judaism since ancient times and is the emblem on the coat of arms of the modern state of Israel.
Tweet. One of the oldest symbols of the Jewish faith is the menorah, a seven-branched candelabrum used in the Temple. It has been said that the menorah is a symbol of the nation of Israel and its mission to be a light unto the nations. (Isaiah 42:6).
The menorah (/məˈnɔrə/ ; Hebrew: מְנוֹרָה ‎ [mənoːˈɾaː]) is described in the Bible as the seven-lamp (six branches) ancient Hebrew lampstand made of pure gold and used in the portable sanctuary set up by Moses in the wilderness and later in the Temple in Jerusalem. The menorah has been a symbol of Judaism since ancient times and is the emblem on the coat of arms of the modern state of Israel.
Full Definition of MENORAH. : a candelabra with seven or nine lights that is used in Jewish worship. See menorah defined for English-language learners. See menorah defined for kids. 
A six-or seven-branch menorah is most common for standard usage. Nine-branch menorahs are traditionally used only for Hanukkah. The menorah is said to represent the burning bush that Moses saw, as related in the Hebrew Bible. In many ways, the menorah is perhaps the foremost symbol of Judaism. During the season of Hanukkah, the nine-branched menorah, or hanukiah, is used. The lighting of the Hanukkah menorah comes from a story in the Talmud in which the Maccabees were attempting to dedicate the Holy Temple.
One of the oldest symbols of the Jewish faith is the menorah, a seven-branched candelabrum used in the Temple. It has been said that the menorah is a symbol of the nation of Israel and its mission to be a light unto the nations.. (Isaiah 42:6). The sages emphasize that light is not a violent force; Israel is to accomplish its mission by setting an example, not by using force. It has been said that the menorah is a symbol of the nation of Israel and its mission to be a light unto the nations
menorah. n. 1. (Judaism) a seven-branched candelabrum used in the Temple and now an emblem of Judaism and the badge of the state of Israel. 2. (Judaism) a candelabrum having eight branches and a shammes that is lit during the festival of Hanukkah. [from Hebrew: candlestick]. 2. menorah - (Judaism) a candelabrum with nine branches; used during the Hanukkah festival. candelabra, candelabrum-branched candlestick; ornamental; has several lights. Judaism-the monotheistic religion of the Jews having its spiritual and ethical principles embodied chiefly in the Torah and in the Talmud
The menorah is a symbol of Israel. A Hanukiah is a type of candelabra, with nine candle holders. Eight candles are in a line and the ninth candle is out of place, either at a different height or in a different position on the Hanukiah. The difference between the Hanukiah and Menorah is that the Hanukiah is lit on the festival of Hanukkah and the Menorah is not. In addition, the Menorah has fewer branches than the Hanukiah and does not have an out of place ‘Shamash’.
A menorah (sometimes menora) is a specialized candle holder, or candelabra, used by the Jewish people. Two main varieties exist: one with six or seven branches and one with nine branches. During the season of Hanukkah, the nine-branched menorah, or hanukiah, is used. The lighting of the Hanukkah menorah comes from a story in the Talmud in which the Maccabees were attempting to dedicate the Holy Temple.