3. Don't avoid the hairdresser. If you do decide to break up with your hairdresser, don't duck into a different aisle if you see her in the grocery store, Gottsman says. Instead, say hello. It puts everybody at ease, she says. Etiquette experts admit breaking up with a hairdresser can be tricky territory, but the experience need not be so painful. [See How and Why to Make Small Talk.]. Jodyne Speyer, author of Dump 'Em: How To Break Up With Anyone From Your Best Friend to Your Hairdresser, says she learned the right way the hard way.
Give a heads up. When you call to schedule your next hair appointment, that is a great time to mention any issues you'd like to discuss. Jodyne Speyer, author of  Dump 'Em: How to Break Up With Anyone From Your Best Friend to Your Hairdresser , recommends being as specific as you can. Luckily, my hair is in much better hands, but a part of me wishes I would have opened up about things going bad. At some point or another, you may have broken up with your hairdresser or tried to and ended up not loving your locks as much.
In fact, breaking up with your hairdresser can be as dramatic—or traumatic—as breaking up with a boyfriend. “When we’re sitting in that chair, it seems more than business,” says Patricia Napier-Fitzpatrick, founder of the Etiquette School of New York. “And you’re not the first person to move on.”. 4. If you do want to fess up, act thankful for their past work. Sending flowers or a thank-you note in addition to telling your stylist face to face is a welcome gesture. It’ll make them feel like their work was valued. 5.
Hopefully that will snap your hairstylist into shape so you won’t have to break up at all. If, after giving your hairstylist another chance you still aren’t happy with your hair, then move on. Don’t worry about hurt feelings on your hairstylist’s part. Either way, here are some tips on how to break up with your hairstylist, gently and politely. Tip #1. “Hairstylist Break Up Be honest and straightforward. If you are looking to try out a new hairstylist at the same salon, it’s best to be up front an honest, but kind with words.
3. It ’ s also okay not to tell your hairdresser that you ’ re leaving them. “You’re a customer, you choose how to spend your money,” says Post. “And you’re not the first person to move on.”. 4. If you do want to fess up, act thankful for their past work. Sending flowers or a thank-you note in addition to telling your stylist face to face is a welcome gesture. It’ll make them feel like their work was valued. 5.
If you struggle with confrontation, try sending them a card that wishes them well, but lets them know you've decided to move on and do thank your hairdresser for the years you've had together. Don't use outrageous excuses. I'm guilty as charged of dialing up my stylist to say I've had a family emergency to avoid a fee. Luckily, my hair is in much better hands, but a part of me wishes I would have opened up about things going bad. At some point or another, you may have broken up with your hairdresser or tried to and ended up not loving your locks as much.
1. First, give him a chance to redeem himself. It’s good explain your frustrations with your hairdresser and let him try to remedy the issues before breaking it off with him entirely. “I think it is really important to say—delicately—what you really want to say,” says Lizzie Post, co-author of Emily Post’s Etiquette, 18th edition. 2. “And you’re not the first person to move on.”. 4. If you do want to fess up, act thankful for their past work. Sending flowers or a thank-you note in addition to telling your stylist face to face is a welcome gesture. It’ll make them feel like their work was valued. 5.
Tip #3. Give your hairstylist one more try at doing your ‘do right. If you’ve told your hairstylist how you feel and that you are thinking of a ‘break up’, then give her one last try to make things right before leaving. Be sure you haven’t expected your hairstylist to be a mind reader. Either way, here are some tips on how to break up with your hairstylist, gently and politely. Tip #1. “Hairstylist Break Up Be honest and straightforward. If you are looking to try out a new hairstylist at the same salon, it’s best to be up front an honest, but kind with words.