The four muscles that are involved in the compression of the  abdominal wall are the internal oblique, external oblique,  transversus abdominus, and the rectus abdominus. 1 Lower Abdominal Exercise Methods for Flatter Abs If you want to get flatter abs, doing an abdominal exercise is a must. 2  If you commit to doing this once a day, your abs show the results in a matter of weeks.
Deep muscles. The deep muscles of the abdominal and pelvic region protect internal organs and perform the many complex movements of the spine, thighs, and hips. Read More.
The transverse abdominal muscle (TVA), also known as the transverse abdominis, transversalis muscle and transversus abdominis muscle, is a muscle layer of the anterior and lateral (front and side) abdominal wall which is deep to (layered below) the internal oblique muscle. The transverse abdominal, so called for the direction of its fibers, is the innermost of the flat muscles of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath
Abdominal Muscles. The. transverses abdominus. is the deepest of the abdominal muscles and is considered to be the most important. It rises from the middle of the stomach and continues around to the trunk where it attaches itself to the spine. The transverses abdominus forms a deep internal corset of sorts and works to stabilize the spine. 
The transversus abdominis muscle is the deepest of the abdominal muscles, lying internally to the internal abdominal obliques. It is a thin sheet of muscle whose fibres run horizontally anteriorly. Abdominal Muscle Anatomy. Search. The external abdominal oblique muscle is the largest and most superficial of the four muscles and lies on the sides and front of the abdomen. It is broad and thin with it's muscular portion occupying the side and it's aponeurosis the anterior wall of the abdomen.
The internal abdominal oblique muscle is also a broad thin muscular sheet that lies deep to the external oblique muscle. It arises from the thoraco-lumbar fascia, the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest and the lateral two-thirds of the inguinal ligament. Abdominal Muscle Anatomy. Search. The external abdominal oblique muscle is the largest and most superficial of the four muscles and lies on the sides and front of the abdomen. It is broad and thin with it's muscular portion occupying the side and it's aponeurosis the anterior wall of the abdomen.
In Depth: Deep muscles. The abdominal muscles provide postural support, protect internal organs, and perform other important functions. The lower abdominal muscles help protect the pelvic cavity. The rectus abdominis is the large muscle in the middle portion of the abdomen. It facilitates the tilt of the pelvis and the curvature of the lower spine. Next to it on both sides of the body is the internal oblique. The deep muscles of the abdominal and pelvic region protect internal organs and perform the many complex movements of the spine, thighs, and hips. Read More.
Transversus abdominis is the deepest of the abdominal muscles and wraps around the abdomen between the lower ribs and top of the pelvis, functioning like a corset. This picture shows the anatomy of this muscle with the outer two abdominal layers (internal and external oblique) removed. The second step is to strengthen or teach it to co-contract with the other muscles of the core, the deep multifidus and the pelvic floor as you breathe. The final step is to co-contract the entire core (connect to the entire core) and use this connection in functional activities.
The Transversus Abdominis (TA) is the deepest abdominal muscle. It is the  corset muscle  of the spine and pelvis. In the normal situation, TA contracts in anticipation of body motion to guard the spinal joints, ligaments, discs and nerves. 