Characteristics of systemic sclerosis include essential vasomotor disturbances; fibrosis; subsequent atrophy of the skin (see the image below), subcutaneous tissue, muscles, and internal organs (eg, alimentary tract, lungs, heart, kidney, CNS); and immunologic disturbances accompany these findings. Systemic sclerosis usually appears in women aged 30-40 years, and it occurs in slightly older men. In approximately 85% of cases, systemic sclerosis develops in individuals aged 20-60 years. Cases also are observed in children and in the elderly population.
Scleroderma is classified as localized or widespread (systemic sclerosis with a tendency to affect internal organs). Systemic sclerosis is further divided into limited and diffuse based upon the extent of skin involvement. 1 Scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring, blood vessel problems, varying degrees of inflammation, and is associated with an overactive immune system. 2  CREST syndrome is a limited form of systemic sclerosis.
Systemic scleroderma is an autoimmune disorder that affects the skin and internal organs. Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's own tissues and organs. The word scleroderma means hard skin in Greek, and the condition is characterized by the buildup of scar tissue (fibrosis) in the skin and other organs. The condition is also called systemic sclerosis because the fibrosis can affect organs other than the skin. Fibrosis is due to the excess production of a tough protein called collagen, which normally strengthens and supports connective tissues throughout the body
Systemic scleroderma (also known as systemic sclerosis) is the term for scleroderma that affects the skin and the tissues beneath skin that lead to the blood vessels and major organs. Systemic scleroderma can affect the entire body, and is typically broken down into three subtypes, which are: 1  Limited. 2  Diffuse. 3  Sine. 
Scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis, is a chronic connective tissue disease generally classified as one of the autoimmune rheumatic diseases. The word “scleroderma” comes from two Greek words: “sclero” meaning hard, and “derma” meaning skin. Systemic scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) The changes occurring in systemic scleroderma may affect the connective tissue in many parts of the body. Systemic scleroderma can involve the skin, esophagus, gastrointestinal tract (stomach and bowels), lungs, kidneys, heart and other internal organs.
Autoimmune disorders occur when the immune system malfunctions and attacks the body's own tissues and organs. The word scleroderma means hard skin in Greek, and the condition is characterized by the buildup of scar tissue (fibrosis) in the skin and other organs. In the third type of systemic scleroderma, called systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma (sine means without in Latin), fibrosis affects one or more internal organs but not the skin.
Scleroderma, also known as systemic sclerosis, is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease characterised by hardening (sclero) of the skin (derma). In the more severe form, it also affects internal organs. Limited scleroderma involves cutaneous manifestations that mainly affect the hands, arms and face. 
Definition and etiology. Scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis (SSc), is a chronic multisystem autoimmune disease characterized by a vasculopathy, diffuse fibrosis of skin and various internal organs, and immune abnormalities. Systemic sclerosis sine scleroderma (ssSSc) is a rare disorder in which patients develop vascular and fibrotic damage to internal organs (phenotypically similar to that in limited scleroderma), in the absence of cutaneous sclerosis.