1 High cholesterol can lead to blockage in the carotid artery that takes blood from the neck to the brain. 2  A piece of this plaque can break off and travel to the brain, causing a stroke. 3  Obesity can cause high blood pressure and high cholesterol. In some patients, atherosclerosis, specifically in the carotid artery in the neck, can lead to ischemic stroke. Plaque in the carotid artery may result in a stroke by either decreasing blood flow to the brain or by breaking loose and floating into a smaller vessel, depriving a portion of the brain of blood flow.
Like the arteries that supply blood to the heart -- the coronary arteries -- the carotid arteries can also develop atherosclerosis or “hardening of the arteries” on the inside of the vessels. Over time, the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol narrows the carotid arteries. This narrowing is usually caused by the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol deposits, called plaque. Carotid artery occlusion refers to complete blockage of the artery. When the carotid arteries are obstructed, you are at an increased risk for a stroke, the third leading cause of death in the U.S.
Carotid artery disease is a serious condition that occurs when the blood vessels in the neck that carry oxygen-rich blood to the brain (carotid arteries) become narrowed a fatty, waxy substance called plaque. Carotid artery disease is one of the primary causes of a stroke. These blockages caused by carotid artery disease can restrict blood flow to brain tissue or promote a blood clot that cuts off blood flow entirely, causing an ischemic stroke ,the most common type of stroke. Identifying and treating carotid artery disease is critical in reducing the risk of a first or recurrent stroke.
Plaque Blockage. The third cause of an artery blockage is if portions of the accumulated plaque become loose and then flow to the brain and cause for a blockage in the other arteries in the brain. Symptoms. As we've said earlier, the symptoms of this condition might not be diagnosed till they've caused major damage to the body. An accumulation of plaque is one of the main reasons for an artery blockage. Clot Formation. One other reason that can cause an artery blockage is that a blood clot can obstruct the artery and cause a blockage. The traveling blood clot can get wedged in the partially or majorly blocked artery and thereby cause for further complications to arise
Carotid artery disease is also called carotid artery stenosis. The term refers to the narrowing of the carotid arteries. This narrowing is usually caused by the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol deposits, called plaque. Carotid artery occlusion refers to complete blockage of the artery. When the carotid arteries are obstructed, you are at an increased risk for a stroke, the third leading cause of death in the U.S.
Carotid artery blockage is brought on when there is a constriction and a narrowing of the arteries. This is mainly caused when there is an accumulation of too many fatty substances in the body as well as cholesterol elements. These are known as plaque. An accumulation of plaque is one of the main reasons for an artery blockage. Clot Formation. One other reason that can cause an artery blockage is that a blood clot can obstruct the artery and cause a blockage. The traveling blood clot can get wedged in the partially or majorly blocked artery and thereby cause for further complications to aris
Carotid artery. Carotid artery disease is caused by a buildup of plaques in arteries that deliver blood to your brain. Plaques are clumps of cholesterol, calcium, fibrous tissue and other cellular debris that gather at microscopic injury sites within the artery. This process is called atherosclerosis
The carotid arteries are two large blood vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the large, front part of the brain. This is where thinking, speech, personality, and sensory and motor functions reside. You can feel your pulse in the carotid arteries on each side of your neck, right below the angle of the jaw line. This narrowing is usually caused by the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol deposits, called plaque. Carotid artery occlusion refers to complete blockage of the artery. When the carotid arteries are obstructed, you are at an increased risk for a stroke, the third leading cause of death in the U.S.