About TB. TB is a contagious and often severe airborne disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). TB typically affects the lungs, but it also can affect any other organ of the body. It is usually treated with a regimen of drugs taken for 6 months to 2 years depending on the type of infection. 
Tuberculosis (TB) is an infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria. TB primarily targets the lungs but may affect any area of the body such as the urinary tract, central nervous system, bones and/or joints, other organs, abdominal area, or lymph nodes. A tuberculosis infection that has spread through the blood to various organs of the body is termed miliary tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis (TB) is a multisystemic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, a rod-shaped bacterium. TB is the most common cause of infectious disease-related mortality worldwide (about 1.1 million to 1.7 million people die from it each year worldwide). 
Tuberculosis, MTB, or TB (short for tubercle bacillus), in the past also called phthisis, phthisis pulmonalis, or consumption, is a widespread, infectious disease caused by various strains of mycobacteria, usually Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Tuberculosis typically attacks the lungs, but can also affect other parts of the body. It is spread through the air when people who have an active TB infection cough, sneeze, or otherwise transmit respiratory fluids through the air.
A: Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by bacteria (Mycobacterium tuberculosis) that most often affect the lungs. Tuberculosis is curable and preventable. TB is spread from person to person through the air. When people with lung TB cough, sneeze or spit, they propel the TB germs into the air. 
Humans are the only known reservoirs of M. tuberculosis. When in the lungs, M. tuberculosis is taken up by alveolar macrophages, but they are unable to digest and eradicate the bacterium. Its cell wall prevents the fusion of the phagosome with the lysosome, which contains a host of antimycobacterial factors. M. tuberculosis divides every 15–20 hours, which is extremely slow compared to other bacteria, which tend to have division times measured in minutes (Escherichia coli can divide roughly every 20 minutes). It is a small bacillus that can withstand weak disinfectants and can survive in a dry state for weeks.
Tuberculosis (TB) is caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. TB is spread through the air from one person to another. The TB bacteria are put into the air when a person with TB disease of the lungs or throat coughs, sneezes, speaks, or sings. People nearby may breathe in these bacteria and become infected. TB is NOT spread by. 1  shaking someone's hand. 2  sharing food or drink. 3  touching bed linens or toilet seats. 4  sharing toothbrushes
Tuberculosis (TB). TB is a disease caused by a bacterium called Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The bacteria usually attack the lungs, but TB bacteria can attack any part of the body such as the kidney, spine, and brain. If not treated properly, TB disease can be fatal. TB disease was once the leading cause of death in the United States. 
Bacterium. Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria, the cause of TB. Credit: NIAID. Tuberculosis is caused by the infectious agent known as Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb). This rod-shaped bacterium, also called Koch's bacillus, was discovered by Dr. Robert Koch in 1882. This is called latent TB infection. People who have latent TB infection do not get sick and do not spread the bacteria to others. But, some people with latent TB infection eventually do get TB disease. So it is important to get the appropriate treatment and get rid of the bacteria even in