The majority of nephrons are cortical. Cortical nephrons have a shorter loop of Henle compared to juxtamedullary nephrons. The longer loop of Henle in juxtamedullary nephrons create a hyperosmolar gradient that allows for the creation of concentrated urine. Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex).
Most of the nephron is permeable to urea except for the cortical portion of the distal tubule. As the filtrate descends into the medulla, urea diffuses into the loop of Henle down its concentration gradient, causing the urea concentration in the tubule to rise. The loop of Henle. The loop of Henle is the portion of the kidney that creates the conditions by which the kidney can form concentrated urine (i.e. urine with an osmolality greater than plasma) later on in the nephron.
The basic functional unit of the kidney is the nephron. This article explains the purpose of each portion of the nephron and the transport systems and hormones involved in the normal function of the nephron in the formation of urine. The article includes a discussion of commonly used drugs that affect nephron function. The loop of Henle. The loop of Henle is the portion of the kidney that creates the conditions by which the kidney can form concentrated urine (i.e. urine with an osmolality greater than plasma) later on in
A nephron (from Greek νεφρός (nephros) meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Functionally, cortical and juxtamedullary nephrons have distinct roles. Cortical nephrons (85% of all nephrons in humans) mainly perform excretory and regulatory functions, while juxtamedullary nephrons (15% of nephrons in humans) concentrate and dilute urine.
The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle. Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex).
The functional unit of the kidney is the nephron. Each adult kidney contains around 1–1.5 million nephrons. The basic structure of the nephron is shown in Figure 1. There are two types of nephron, the cortical and the juxtamedullary. The loop of Henle. The loop of Henle is the portion of the kidney that creates the conditions by which the kidney can form concentrated urine (i.e. urine with an osmolality greater than plasma) later on in
(June 2011). The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Cortical nephrons have their Loop of Henle in the renal medulla near its junction with the renal cortex, while the Loop of Henle of juxtamedullary nephrons is located deep in the renal medulla; they are called juxtamedullary because their renal corpuscle is located near the medulla (but still in the cortex).
Best Answer: STRUCTURE OF NEPHRON: Nephrons (Greek nephros=kidney) are renal or kidney tubules. Each kidney has over one million nephrons that are responsible for removing waste products from blood and maintaining water, salt and pH balance in the body. This vital job results in the formation of urine. 1.Afferent Arteriole The afferent arteriole receives blood rich in oxygen from the renal artery.
Nephrons are the structural and functional units of the kidneys that carry out processes that form urine. Each nephron consists of a renal corpuscle composed of a tuft of capillaries (the glomerulus), surrounded by a glomerular capsule (Bowman s capsule) and a renal tubule. Major and minor calyces collect urine and empty it into the renal pelvis. Blood supply into and out of the kidneys progresses to the cortex through renal arteries to segmental, lobar, interlobar, arcuate, and cortical radiate arteries, and back to renal veins from cortical radiate, arcuate, and interlobar veins.
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out large solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. Functionally, cortical and juxtamedullary nephrons have distinct roles. Cortical nephrons (85% of all nephrons in humans) mainly perform excretory and regulatory functions, while juxtamedullary nephrons (15% of nephrons in humans) concentrate and dilute urine.