Magma is molten rock found below the earth's surface. The temperature at which a rock melts is affected by its composition, pressure and water. Learn how magma forms and how it either feeds volcanoes or cools and crystallizes into igneous rock.
Magma. Magma is defined as molten rock found below the earth's surface. It's a Greek word meaning 'thick ointment.' Why a geologist in the year 1859, which was the first known geological use of the word, decided that magma and ointment were similar is unknown.
Water and other “volatiles” are especially likely to end up dissolved in rocks when an oceanic plate gets subducted, dragging with it water-rich sedimentary rocks. This is why volcanoes are common along subduction zones, such as the entire west coast of the Americas. So that’s where lava comes from. Stay tuned for a follow-up post, where I’ll talk about the different types of lava flows and show you some pictures I took in Hawaii! Posted in: Earth, Geology, Pictures, Planets in General, Volcanoes 27 Comments/Trackbacks ».
Magma is the term used for molten, or melted, rock. Magma wells up from the deep layer of Earth called the mantle. Rock in the mantle is partly melted because of the very high temperature at that depth. In some places, magma is closer to the surface of Earth than it is in other places.
Magma forms from partial melting of mantle rocks. As the rocks move upward (or have water added to them), they start to melt a little bit. These little blebs of melt migrate upward and coalesce into larger volumes that continue to move upward. They may collect in a magma chamber or they may just come straight up.
Magma originates either from rising plumes of heat at hot spots in the Earth's mantle, where decompression melting takes place as the hot rock nears the surface; or, it originates in the mantle from subduction of oceanic crust, where cold, wet rock speeds melting of the subducting rock and it rises toward the surface.
The crust, mantle and inner core of the earth are all solid rock (or iron in the case of the core). The only large portion of the earth’s interior that is liquid is the outer core, and lava does not come from there (again, if it did, it would be molten iron).
Magma is molten rock found below the earth's surface. Magma on the earth's surface is called lava. Magma is primarily a very hot liquid, which is called the melt. The temperature at which a rock melts is affected by its composition.