This makes Hawaii the world's longest island chain. The state of Hawaii is named after the largest of the islands, located in the south of the archipelago. The eight main Hawaiian Islands are Oahu, with the state capital of Honolulu, Hawaii (Big Island), Maui, Kauai, Molokai, Lanai, Niihau und Kahoolawe. They are located at the southeastern end of the island chain. Hawaii is the 43rd largest of the 50 states in the USA ahead of Rhode Island, Delaware, Connecticut, New Jersey, New Hampshire, Vermont and Massachusetts. Hawaii's total land area is 6,422.63 square miles (16,634.53 km²). Hawaii's total coastline is 750 miles (1,207 km).
Honolulu, Oahu. Honolulu (see more photos, view panorama) is the capital of the U.S. state of Hawaii. It is located on the south shore of the island of Oahu, in the Central Pacific Ocean, 2,551 miles (4,105 km) west of Los Angeles. Honolulu Overview. 1  Honolulu is the capital of the U.S. state of Hawaii and is located on the island of Oahu. 2  City's average temperature is pleasant year-round, always ranging between 72 F and 81 F (22.2 – 27.2 C). 3  Waikiki is a district of Honolulu located 3 miles (4.8 km) to the east of downtown Honolulu.
1 Honolulu is the capital of the U.S. state of Hawaii and is located on the island of Oahu. 2  City's average temperature is pleasant year-round, always ranging between 72 F and 81 F (22.2 – 27.2 C). 3  Waikiki is a district of Honolulu located 3 miles (4.8 km) to the east of downtown Honolulu. Honolulu Overview. 1 
The State of Hawaii is located in the North Pacific Ocean just a few degrees south of the Tropic of Cancer, approximately 2,550 miles southwest of Los Angeles and about 3,900 miles southeast of Tokyo. Because of its isolated location, Hawaii is not considered a part of the North American Continent. 
Where is Hawaii. The state of Hawaii is located in the middle of the North Pacific Ocean, about 3,200 kilomoeters from the coast of the Continental United States. Hawaii's location also makes it the only state not located in North America. As an island state, Hawaii does not share any borders with other states or countries.
Hawaii is the only state with an official second language, Hawaiian. Hawaii, a Pacific state, is located in the Pacific Ocean 2,100 miles southwest of the mainland United States. It is the only state not located on the continent of North America and the only state made up entirely of islands. The state is made up of 132 islands, eight of which are considered major islands. 
Hawaii is the only U.S. state located in Oceania and the only one composed entirely of islands. It is the northernmost island group in Polynesia, occupying most of an archipelago in the central Pacific Ocean. Hawaii is the only U.S. state not located in the Americas. Because of its central location in the Pacific and 19th-century labor migration, Hawaii's culture is strongly influenced by North American and Asian cultures, in addition to its indigenous Hawaiian culture. Hawaii has over a million permanent residents, along with many visitors and U.S. military personnel.
Hawaii is the southernmost of the United States, and the Aleutian Islands of Alaska are the only part of the United States that extend farther west than Hawaii. Hawaii's location also makes it the only state not located in North America. As an island state, Hawaii does not share any borders with other states or countries.
Mostly.   All of the principal islands of the State of Hawaii are located within the Tropic of Cancer, within 23° 26′ 22″ of the equator. This means the sun can … appear directly overhead at noon.   The Topic of Cancer actually passes through the sea territory of Hawaii, missing every island. 
Did you know that Hawaii is the most remote island chain in the world? In fact, the Hawaiian archipelago is located in the Central Pacific Ocean, 2,390 miles (3,850 km) from California and 3,850 miles (6,195 km) from Japan. Hawaii is the furthest from any landmass in the world. Hawaii is the 43rd largest of the 50 states in the USA ahead of Rhode Island, Delaware, Connecticut, New Jersey, New Hampshire, Vermont and Massachusetts. Hawaii's total land area is 6,422.63 square miles (16,634.53 km²). Hawaii's total coastline is 750 miles (1,207 km).