You can claim motor expenses either by mileage or full cost (more on this in a future post). You can also claim other travel expenses such as airfares, rail, taxis, bus, congestion charge, toll charges. You can’t claim for penalties and fines, so no speeding or dodgy parking. Travel and subsistence is a little bit of a can of worms (or even spaghetti)! The rules for self employed versus employees and company directors don’t always line up, so if you have recently moved from one employment structure to another, you might find yourself caught out by the differences.
If a journey counts as business travel, you can also claim relief for: 1  meals and accommodation costs (subsistence) incurred in making the business journey. 2  other business expenses arising because of the journey, for example telephone costs. In this situation, you can claim the actual travel expenses you incur unless the journey is not significantly different from the ordinary commuting journey. If travelling is your job – for example, you are a travelling salesperson or a lorry driver – you might not have any permanent place of work.
When completing your tax return, you're entitled to claim deductions for some expenses, most of which are directly related to earning your income. To claim a work-related deduction: 1  you must have spent the money yourself and weren't reimbursed. 2  it must be related to your job. 
Elements of business journey expenses can be claimed for. You can claim tax relief for travel costs, for example fares, you incur making business journeys. If you use your own car, motorcycle or bicycle for work, any tax and tax relief are based on the Revenue approved payments not your actual costs. In this situation, you can claim the actual travel expenses you incur unless the journey is not significantly different from the ordinary commuting journey. If travelling is your job – for example, you are a travelling salesperson or a lorry driver – you might not have any permanent place of work.
If it's your own cell phone, then you can't claim anything as a deduction for the calls you've made. However! You can claim a wear and tear allowance for the cost of the phone itself. If you're using a phone that cost R7,000, and 50% calls were for business, then you're allowed a deduction of R7,000 x 50% = R3,500. This is a wear and tear allowance (otherwise termed depreciation) for a capital asset (being your phone)
1 If you are eligible for tax relief on your travel costs, for example if you have to travel to a temporary workplace or between different workplaces, you can claim full tax relief on the cost of a travel card. 2  However, you can only use this card for work-related journeys. Travel Expenses-How much can I claim 1  ... The amount of travel expenses you can claim does depend on how much if anything your employer pays you. 2  You can currently reclaim tax relief on travel expense for the last four tax years.
INDIVIDUAL Deductions. Tax legislation provides for a taxpayer to claim certain expenses incurred during a year of assessment against the income received. However, the type of expenses you can claim is dependent on the type of income you received.
6. If you have to travel for your work you may be able to claim tax relief on the cost or money you’ve spent on food or overnight expenses, called ‘subsistence’. You can’t claim for travelling to where you work, unless it’s a temporary place of work. Expenses you can claim tax relief on from your business journey include: 1  public transport costs. 2  hotel accommodation if you have to stay overnight. 3  food and drink
Travel and overnight expenses. If you have to travel for your work you may be able to claim tax relief on the cost or money you’ve spent on food or overnight expenses, called ‘subsistence’. You can’t claim for travelling to where you work, unless it’s a temporary place of work. Expenses you can claim tax relief on from your business journey include: 1  public transport costs. 2  hotel accommodation if you have to stay overnight. 3  food and drink
If your business requires a trip with an overnight stay then you can claim for the cost of the accommodation and reasonable expenses for the evening meal and breakfast. Beware – anything claimed for locations too close to your base of work might not be considered to be subsistence. Travel and subsistence is a little bit of a can of worms (or even spaghetti)! The rules for self employed versus employees and company directors don’t always line up, so if you have recently moved from one employment structure to another, you might find yourself caught out by the differences.