Plasma (Cytoplasmic) Membrane In eukaryotic cells, the plasma membrane, which contains sterols, may be the external cell covering.Substances cross the membrane by mechanisms similar to those in prokaryotes. In addition, a process ofengulfment, endocytosis, brings particles, even some viruses, into the cell. 4. Possess membrane-enclosed organelles such as mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and sometimeschloroplasts. THE PROKARYOTIC CELLSize, Shape, and Arrangement of Bacterial Cells Bacteria range in size from 0.2 to 2.0 m in diameter and 2 to 8 m in length.
5.2 Eukaryotic cell envelopes 1. Identify the types of eukaryotic microbes that have cell walls and distinguish them from plant cell walls. 2. Compare and contrast the cell envelopes of members of Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya in terms of their component layers, molecular make-up, and function. 8.
Eukaryotic Cell Envelopes - 2 • Unlike the peptidoglycan in the cell wall of Bacteria and Archaea, many eukaryotes lack or have a chemically distinct cell wall • Cell walls of photosynthetic algae have cellulose, pectin, and silica • Cell walls of fungi consist of cellulose, chitin, or glucan 11. Identify the types of eukaryotic microbes that have cell walls and distinguish them from plant cell walls. 2. Compare and contrast the cell envelopes of members of Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya in terms of their component layers, molecular make-up, and function. 8.
DNA replication can also be performed in vitro (artificially, outside a cell). DNA polymerases isolated from cells and artificial DNA primers can be used to initiate DNA synthesis at known sequences in a template DNA molecule. DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication.
The cytoplasm of a bacterial cell contains the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) molecules that make up the bacterial genome (or nucleoid), the transcriptional machinery that copies DNA into ribonucleic acid (RNA), and the ribosomes that translate the messenger RNA information into protein sequence. 
All the eukaryotes have complex cell structures, which include plasma membrane, glycocalyx, cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and presence of membrane bounded organelles. The membrane bounded nucleus is prominent in these cells. Due to their complexity, most of the eukaryotes cannot live in harsh environment, unlike bacteria. Depending on the basic structure of cells, all the organisms can be classified into two basic forms; namely, prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Prokaryotes are basically unicellular organisms with simple cell structures, and they can be classified into two categories; Archea and bacteria.
DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance. DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication.
Protein synthesis is a very important process for both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. In this process, nucleotide sequence in a segment of DNA is translated into the specific sequence of amino acids in a protein. Translation occurs at ribosomes; ribosomes consist of RNA and proteins. While eukaryotic cells have 80S ribosomes, bacterial cells contain 70S ribosomes, which have the folllowing components. Genetic information in bacteria is stored in the sequence of DNA in two forms, that is bacterial chromosome and plasmid. The following are the properties of a bacterial chromosome. 1  Location: Within nucleoid region, not surrounded by nuclear envelope. 2  Number: 1 chromosome each cell.
The membrane helps move materials into and out of the cell. Cytoplasm As in prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells contain cytoplasm that takes up much of the space inside the cells.Nucleus The nucleus is the central organelle that holds DNA. DNA DNA within a eukaryotic cell is linear and organized into chromosomes. As with prokaryotic cells, DNA carries the instructions and genetic code for the cell. Mitochondria The mitochondria play major roles in transforming the energy in food into a usable form of energy called ATP. The cell then uses ATP to carry out activities such as reproduction and growth.
Larger bacterial (prokaryotic) cells are presumed to have engulfed smaller bacte-rial cells (one organism living within another is called endosymbiosis) and eventually evolve intoeukaryotic cells. Mitochondria and chloroplasts in eukaryotic cells are considered evidence for the the-ory. 4. Possess membrane-enclosed organelles such as mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and sometimeschloroplasts. THE PROKARYOTIC CELLSize, Shape, and Arrangement of Bacterial Cells Bacteria range in size from 0.2 to 2.0 m in diameter and 2 to 8 m in length.