To set up Gmail as an IMAP account in Windows Live Mail: 1  Make sure IMAP access is enabled in Gmail. 2  Select Go | Mail from the menu in Windows Live Mail. 3  Hold down the Alt key if you cannot see the menu bar. 4  Click Add an e-mail account at the bottom of the list. To set up access to a Gmail account in Windows Live Mail: 1  Make sure POP access is turned on for your Gmail account. 2  Go to Mail under Shortcuts in Windows Live Mail. 3  Click Add an e-mail account at the bottom of the list. 4  Type your Gmail address under E-mail address: . 5  Type your Gmail password under Password: .
Adding a POP account in Gmail. 1. Log in to Gmail or create an account if you do not have one. 2. Click on the Gear icon in the top right corner and choose Settings. 3. Click on the Accounts and Import tab. 
﻿. In Outlook 2016 for Mac, you can set up your work or school email accounts (Office 365 or Microsoft Exchange), and personal, online email accounts (Google Gmail, Yahoo! Mail Plus, Comcast, or AOL), by using only your email address and password. Here’s how: 
Create a Gmail address. Create an account. Your Gmail account is also your Google Account. When you sign up for Gmail, you can use your same Gmail username and password to use other Google products like YouTube, Google+, Google Play, and Google Drive. Learn more about creating Google Accounts. 
To setup your Gmail account to use IMAP, sign in to your Gmail account and go to Mail. Click the Settings button in the upper, right corner of the window and select Settings from the drop-down menu. On the Settings screen, click Forwarding and POP/IMAP. Scroll down to the IMAP Access section and select Enable IMAP. Click Save Changes at the bottom of the screen. Close your browser and open Outlook. To begin adding your Gmail account, click the File tab. On the Account Information screen, click Add Account.
1 You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 2  If you signed in to your Surface with a local account, your mail account isn’t set up yet. 3  You’ll need to get a Microsoft account, and use your Microsoft account email address to begin using the Mail app. 1 If you have signed in to Surface with a Microsoft account, your mail account is already set up. 2  You can then add other accounts, from Outlook, Gmail, AOL, Yahoo!, and even your work email (Exchange ActiveSync). 3  If you’ve signed in to Surface with a local account, your mail account is not yet set up.
1 If you use Gmail as an IMAP Outlook account: - 2  On the Incoming server (IMAP) field, enter 993 and mark the box This server requires an encrypted connection (SSL); - 3  On the Outgoing server (SMTP) field, enter 587 and mark the box This server requires an encrypted connection (TLS). On the Outlook popup window, select to Add a new e-mail account and click on Next. On the server type step, select POP3 or IMAP (depending on your needs) for the Outlook email account type, then click on Next.
1. Go to www.mail.google.com to open your new Gmail account. 2. On the Create an Account page, start by filling in the following information: Your first name, Your last name, Your desired login name (be sure to click on the check availability box to ensure you get the login name you want.). 
Create a Gmail Account. To set up a new Gmail email account: ›› 1  Step by Step Screenshot Walkthrough. 2  Visit Create an Account for Gmail. 3  Enter your first and last names under Name. 4  Type your desired user name under Choose your username.