Pursuing a master’s degree can also be a wise decision for those who want to have a greater earning power. Salary & How to Get a Job. The average salary of an architectural engineer is about $78,000 a year. When you want to become an architectural engineer, it is important to seek open positions at engineering firms. Architect firms also typically hire engineers to work closely with architects. You should be prepared to work as part of a team. It will be important for you to make progress on a project every week. You will have to meet with project supervisors to let them know the status of your project. When you are an architectural engineer, it is important for you to know how to work well with a team of people.
In many colleges, architectural engineering is part of the civil engineering department. As of 2011, civil engineers, including architectural engineers, averaged $82,710 annually, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Architectural engineers need an accredited bachelor's degree at minimum, and many have licenses or graduate degrees. Continuing education helps architectural engineers keep up with advances in technology and design. In many states, you must complete continuing education units to maintain your status as a licensed professional engineer.
Bachelor's Degree. Bachelor's degree programs in architectural engineering are accredited by ABET, or the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. A bachelor's degree takes at least four years of study, and some programs require five years. Continuing education helps architectural engineers keep up with advances in technology and design. In many states, you must complete continuing education units to maintain your status as a licensed professional engineer.
It depends on the program. If you have a co-op program, then you are going to take about 5 years to complete your degree. Note that most students fail at least one cou … rse. For some courses, the failure rate is as high as 70%. Bachelor's degree programs in engineering typically are designed to last 4 years, but many students find that it takes between 4 and 5 years to complete their studies.
Confidence votes 92.5K. Typically, it will take approximately four years, with the exception of architectural engineering which is a five year program of study. There are a number of specific fields within engineering, each with requirements of there own. Bachelor's degree programs in engineering typically are designed to last 4 years, but many students find that it takes between 4 and 5 years to complete their studies.
The age of 13 year is an excellent time to start planning for college. If you focus on planning you would gain better understanding of yourself, discover what you really would like to do in the future, and plan the actions that will take you to your goals. A. How long does it take to become an engineer? 
You should research the requirements for the exam. In some states, you need to complete an apprenticeship for at least two or three years before you can become an architectural engineer. If you want to teach at the university level, then you should consider pursuing a doctoral degree in architectural engineering. It will be important for you to make progress on a project every week. You will have to meet with project supervisors to let them know the status of your project. When you are an architectural engineer, it is important for you to know how to work well with a team of people.
All architectural engineers need at least a bachelor's degree, which takes most students four or five years to complete. Candidates may pursue a general engineering degree, an architectural engineering degree or an architecture degree with supplemental coursework in math, physics and other engineering-related classes. You typically need two to three years of experience before you can take the Principles and Practice of Engineering exam, a test that measures your knowledge of advanced engineering topics. Those who pass this test become professional engineers or PEs.
Doctorate: Six Years. A doctorate or Ph.D. in architecture or architectural engineering is the most advanced degree available to architectural engineers. This degree is required for candidates who want to teach at the university level. Students incorporate advanced research methods and become experts in the field. You typically need two to three years of experience before you can take the Principles and Practice of Engineering exam, a test that measures your knowledge of advanced engineering topics. Those who pass this test become professional engineers or PEs.
Licensing: Three Years. To become a licensed professional architectural engineer, you need to pass a series of exams, a process that takes around three years to complete. Upon graduating, you'll take the Fundamentals of Engineering exam to qualify as an engineering-in-training or EIT. You typically need two to three years of experience before you can take the Principles and Practice of Engineering exam, a test that measures your knowledge of advanced engineering topics. Those who pass this test become professional engineers or PEs.