At Cisco Live, Evans outlined what he believed to be the top 10 trends that will change the world in 10 years. Here is his list, with commentary augmented by yours truly based on interviews in the past year with numerous other industry analysts and visionaries. In the next 10 years, he believes medical technologies will grow vastly more sophisticated as computing power becomes available in smaller forms. Devices such as nanobots and the ability to grow replacement organs from our own tissues will be the norm.
Global intelligence firm Stratfor has published a new report featuring some chilling predictions for what the world will look like in the next 10 years. Check out what possible fates await some of the most powerful countries in the world. Produced by Lamar Salter. 
I think that in the coming ten years, the combined impact of the Internet and globalization on society will be much more wide-ranging than I have anticipated. And during this ten-year period, existing structures will undoubtedly coexist with new structures. 
in Bizarre, Technology, Video Lists | 49460 Views | 25 Responses. “What will the world will be like in 1,000 years” seems like an absurd question to even ask, especially since the degree to which the world changes in 100 years is overly ambitious enough to consider. In honor of our 1,000th Toptenz article, Ray is going to take the podium to share with us some of his ideas about the future. According to Ray, some of the same people living today will still be around in 1,000 years!
Follow Business Insider: In 20 years from now we'll look back and say, 'Well, nothing really happened in the last 20 years.'. The Edge Kevin Kelly. The world is hitting its stride in technological advances, and futurists have been making wild-sounding bets on what we'll accomplish in the not-so-distant future. We're just at the beginning of the beginning of all these kind of changes. There's a sense that all the big things have happened, but relatively speaking, nothing big has happened yet. In 20 years from now we'll look back and say, 'Well, nothing really happened in the last 20 years.'.
1 Internet of Life. 2  In the next decade upwards of 100 billion objects from smartphones to street lamps and our cars will be connected together via a vast ‘internet of everything’. 3  This will impact every aspect of our lives-for example it could transform the criminal justice system. 1 Advances in AI will gather pace in the next decade. 2  For example, by 2025, the interfaces to all our devices from phones to computers, cars and home appliances will be highly intelligent and adaptive-learning from our behaviours and choices and anticipating our needs. 3 
1 In the next decade upwards of 100 billion objects from smartphones to street lamps and our cars will be connected together via a vast ‘internet of everything’. 2  This will impact every aspect of our lives-for example it could transform the criminal justice system. 1 Advances in AI will gather pace in the next decade. 2  For example, by 2025, the interfaces to all our devices from phones to computers, cars and home appliances will be highly intelligent and adaptive-learning from our behaviours and choices and anticipating our needs. 3  Internet of Life.
7. 1,000 years from now, the world population is estimated to be roughly 14 billion. Although such predictions are unlikely to be accurate, the concern is real, and more and more people are working fast and hard for solutions. In honor of our 1,000th Toptenz article, Ray is going to take the podium to share with us some of his ideas about the future. According to Ray, some of the same people living today will still be around in 1,000 years!
According to Kurzweil, “the cost per watt of solar energy is coming down rapidly and the total amount of solar energy is growing exponentially. It has in fact been doubling every two years for the past 20 years and is now only eight doublings away from meeting all of the world’s energy needs.”. There are tons of different fuel-types for the “automobiles of tomorrow” but the only kind that seems to have any realistic chance of actually being used by the masses in the next ten years is electric.