Echinacea is an herb. Several species of the echinacea plant are used to make medicine from its leaves, flower, and root. There is some scientific evidence that echinacea can reduce the symptoms of cold or flu if started when the symptoms are first noticed and continued for 7-10 days. Echinacea does not prevent colds or flu. Echinacea also seems to help prevent vaginal yeast infections when used with some medicated creams.
Promoters of Echinacea say that the herb encourages the immune system and reduces many of the symptoms of colds, flu and some other illnesses, infections and conditions. Echinacea is a perennial plant, it lasts for many years. It is approximately from 1 to 2 feet (30 to 60 centimeters) tall when mature. Echinacea is a very popular herb and people commonly take it to help combat flu and colds. It is a genus of herbaceous flowering plants in the daisy family-Asteraceae.
Three species of Echinacea are used as herbal remedies : Echinacea is a very popular herb and people commonly take it to help combat flu and colds. It is a genus of herbaceous flowering plants in the daisy family-Asteraceae. It is also known as the American coneflower.
Echinacea /ˌɛkɨˈneɪʃⁱə/ is a genus, or group of herbaceous flowering plants in the daisy family. The Echinacea genus has nine species, which are commonly called purple coneflowers. They are found only in eastern and central North America, where they are found growing in moist to dry prairies and open wooded areas. They have large, showy heads of composite flowers, blooming from early to late summer.
Echinacea is an herb. Several species of the echinacea plant are used to make medicine from its leaves, flower, and root. Echinacea is widely used to fight infections, especially the common cold and other upper respiratory infections. 1 Echinacea purpurea herb juice: a daily dose of 6-9 mL for up to a maximum of 8 weeks. 2  Echinacea purpurea herb juice has also been used in a dose of 20 drops every 2 hours for the first day followed by 20 drops three times daily until cold or flu symptoms improve.
Echinacea is one of the most popular herbs in America today. Echinacea is a Native American medicinal plant named for the prickly scales in its large conical seed head, which resembles the spines of an angry hedgehog (echinos is Greek for hedgehog). Echinacea contains several chemicals that play a role in its therapeutic effects. These include polysaccharides, glycoproteins, alkamides, volatile oils, and flavonoids. The chemicals contained in the root differ considerably from those in the upper part of the plant.
There is not enough information to know if echinacea is safe for long-term use. Some side effects have been reported such as fever, nausea, vomiting, unpleasant taste, stomach pain, diarrhea, sore throat, dry mouth, headache, numbness of the tongue, dizziness, insomnia, disorientation, and joint and muscle aches. 1 Echinacea purpurea herb juice: a daily dose of 6-9 mL for up to a maximum of 8 weeks. 2  Echinacea purpurea herb juice has also been used in a dose of 20 drops every 2 hours for the first day followed by 20 drops three times daily until cold or flu symptoms improve.
Echinacea purpurea (eastern purple coneflower or purple coneflower) is a North American species of flowering plant in the sunflower family. Echinacea is believed by many people to stimulate the immune system. In indigenous medicine of the native American Indians, the plant is used externally for wounds, burns, and insect bites, chewing of roots for toothache and throat infections; internal application is used for pain, cough, stomach cramps and snake bites.
Echinacea (say: eck-in-ay-sha) is an herbal product that may help the body defend itself from the viruses that cause colds, sore throats, and the flu. You can find echinacea products in most drug stores or health food stores. 
Echinacea is also used against many other infections including the flu, urinary tract infections, vaginal yeast infections, genital herpes, bloodstream infections (septicemia), gum disease, tonsillitis, streptococcus infections, syphilis, typhoid, malaria, and diphtheria. 1 Echinacea purpurea herb juice: a daily dose of 6-9 mL for up to a maximum of 8 weeks. 2  Echinacea purpurea herb juice has also been used in a dose of 20 drops every 2 hours for the first day followed by 20 drops three times daily until cold or flu symptoms improve.