Photosynthesis: A process by which a plant produces its food using energy from sunlight, carbon dioxide from the air, and water and nutrients from the soil. Pollination: The movement of pollen from one plant to another. Pollination is necessary for seeds to form in flowering plants. Vegetables are other plant parts. Stems. Stems do many things. They support the plant. They act like the plant's plumbing system, conducting water and nutrients from the roots and food in the form of glucose from the leaves to
Now that you've discovered some of the differences among seeds, it's time to look at what seeds have in common. Help Detective Le Plant discover how the parts of a seed work together to form a new plant! 
The root of a plant holds it upright. Other parts of plant such as-leaves, fruits vegetables etc. (except roots), are hold upright by the stem. part of a plant makes the seeds. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Adding Cone Flowers to Your Landscape Coneflowers are one of the easiest varieties to grow in your landscaping. 2  They bloom reliably for many years and make great cut flowers, too.
Comments. Submit. After fertilization through the act of pollination, the flower's ovary becomes swollen and turns into a fruit. The flower's ovules, found inside the ovary, harden and become the seeds inside the fruit. Keywords: flower part, flower biology, form seeds. 
The fruit of the plant holds and protects the seeds. The seed coat initially and later when the ovary ripens, the fruit protects the seed. 
Parts of a Plant. In this movie, you’ll learn about different parts of a plant. You’ll explore how the roots hold a plant into the soil and take in nutrients and water. The stem holds up the plant, and the leaves take in light that the plant uses to make food. Some plants grow flowers.
Parts of Flowers. Flowers are beautiful to us, but for the plant they serve a critical function. Flowers are how plants produce seeds to reproduce. In many cases, the flower contains male and female parts, roughly equivalent to the male and female sexes of animals. The male parts of the flower are called the stamens and are made up of the anther at the top and the stalk or filament that supports the anther.
1 Parts of a Plant• The stem holds up the plant and moves water and nutrients through it. 2  8. 3  Parts of a Plant• Leaves use light, air, water, and nutrients to make food for the plant. 4  9. 5  Parts of a Plant• Flowers make fruits that hold seeds. 6  Flower. 7  10. 1 Parts of a Plant• Roots hold the plant in the soil and takes in water and nutrients from the soil. 2  7. 3  Parts of a Plant• The stem holds up the plant and moves water and nutrients through it. 4  8. 5