Protease inhibitors are antiviral drugs. They interrupt the way HIV uses a healthy cell to make more virus. When HIV enters a healthy cell, its only goal is to make more viruses to infect other healthy cells. It does this by making the cell produce certain proteins the virus can use to copy itself. Two of the proteins used by the virus are reverse transcriptase and protease. The goal of the protease inhibitor is to stop the protease from helping to assemble a new virus. The diagram above shows the virus entering the cell (1), the cell making new proteins (2-3), the proteins forming a new virus (4) and the cell releasing the new virus to infect other cells (5)
Protease inhibitors are metabolised by enzymes in the liver and can interact with other medications by speeding up or slowing down their processing in the body. Ritonavir, in particular, is a strong inhibitor of these liver enzymes and slows the processing of many other drugs. Protease inhibitors. Protease inhibitors block the activity of the protease enzyme, which HIV uses to break up large polyproteins into the smaller pieces required for assembly of new viral particles. While HIV can still replicate in the presence of protease inhibitors, the resulting virions are immature and unable to infect new cell
Protease inhibitors (PIs) are a class of antiviral drugs that are widely used to treat HIV/AIDS and hepatitis caused by hepatitis C virus. Given the specificity of the target of these drugs there is the risk, as in antibiotics, of the development of drug-resistant mutated viruses. To reduce this risk it is common to use several different drugs together that are each aimed at different targets.
HIV-1 protease is a retroviral aspartyl protease (retropepsin) that is essential for the life-cycle of HIV, the retrovirus that causes AIDS. HIV protease cleaves newly synthesized polyproteins at the appropriate places to create the mature protein components of an infectious HIV virion. 
Protease inhibitors are considered one of the most potent medications for HIV developed so far. This class of drugs includes indinavir (Crixivan), ritonavir (Norvir), nelfinavir (Viracept), amprenavir (Agenerase), lopinavir plus ritonavir (Kaletra), saquinavir (Fortovase), and a new drug called atazanavir (Reyataz). Definition. A protease inhibitor is a type of drug that cripples the enzyme protease. An enzyme is a substance that triggers chemical reactions in the body. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) uses protease in the final stages of its reproduction (replication) process
The Protein Man Says: Protease inhibitors are chemical compounds used to protect protein samples from the digestive function of proteases which is triggered during the isolation procedure. As such, they are used to preserve cell lysates and protein samples from imminent natural degradation. However, among the many types of protease inhibitors available, the irreversible serine protease inhibitors PMSF (phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride), and AEBSF (4-(2-Aminoethyl)-benzenesulfonylfluoride hydrochloride) are commonly used protease inhibitors in the preparation of most homogenization buffers.
Protease inhibitors are drugs that resemble pieces of the protein chain that protease normally cuts. By gumming up the protease scissors, HIV protease inhibitors prevent protease from cutting long chains of proteins and enzymes into the shorter pieces that HIV needs to make new copies of itself (Figure 1) . Protease inhibitors are drugs that slow down the spread of HIV -- the virus that causes AIDS -- inside the body.
Researchers are not sure how long protease inhibitors will work in a person infected with HIV, but they have seen promising results in studies. They are hopeful that people will live longer, healthier lives because of the benefits of these new drugs. It does this by making the cell produce certain proteins the virus can use to copy itself. Two of the proteins used by the virus are reverse transcriptase and protease. The goal of the protease inhibitor is to stop the protease from helping to assemble a new virus.