gabion. n. 1. (Civil Engineering) a cylindrical metal container filled with stones, used in the construction of underwater foundations. 2. (Fortifications) a wickerwork basket filled with stones or earth, used (esp formerly) as part of a fortification. n. 1. A cylindrical wicker basket filled with earth and stones, formerly used in building fortifications. 2. A hollow metal cylinder used especially in constructing dams and
Gabion. A gabion is a cage, cylinder, or box filled with rocks, concrete, or sometimes sand and soil for use in civil engineering, road building, and military applications. For erosion control, caged riprap is used. For dams or in foundation construction, cylindrical metal structures are used
gabion. n. 1. (Civil Engineering) a cylindrical metal container filled with stones, used in the construction of underwater foundations. 2. (Fortifications) a wickerwork basket filled with stones or earth, used (esp formerly) as part of a fortification. n. 1. A cylindrical wicker basket filled with earth and stones, formerly used in building fortifications. 2. A hollow metal cylinder used especially in constructing dams and
The latter are intended for bank or cliff stabilisation and are not normally suitable for use in shoreline situations. Functions of gabions. The purpose of a gabion revetment is to provide short term (5-10 years) protection from backshore erosion by absorbing wave energy along the dune face. They are filled insitu, often with locally available material and therefore have a relatively low capital cost. Because they are flexible and porous they can absorb some wave and wind energy, thereby reducing the scour problems associated with impermeable sea defences such as concrete seawalls.
gabion (Noun). a porous metal cylinder filled with stones and used in a variety of civil engineering contexts, especially in the construction of retaining walls, the reinforcing of steep slopes, or in the prevention of erosion in river banks. A gabion is a cage, cylinder, or box filled with rocks, concrete, or sometimes sand and soil for use in civil engineering, road building, and military applications. For erosion control, caged riprap is used. For dams or in foundation construction, cylindrical metal structures are used
The most common civil engineering use of gabions was refined and patented by Gaetano Maccaferri in the late 1800s in Sacerno, Emilia Romagna and used to stabilize shorelines, stream banks or slopes against erosion. The structure will fail when the wire fails. Galvanized steel wire is most common, but PVC-coated and stainless steel wire are also used. PVC-coated galvanized gabions have been estimated to survive for 60 years. Some gabion manufacturers guarantee a structural consistency of 50 years.
Gabions are wire mesh baskets filled with cobbles or crushed rock. They are filled insitu, often with locally available material and therefore have a relatively low capital cost. Because they are flexible and porous they can absorb some wave and wind energy, thereby reducing the scour problems associated with impermeable sea defences such as concrete seawalls.
ga·bi·on. n. 1. A cylindrical wicker basket filled with earth and stones, formerly used in building fortifications. 2. A hollow metal cylinder used especially in constructing dams and foundations.
A gabion (from Italian gabbione meaning big cage; from Italian gabbia and Latin cavea meaning cage) is a cage, cylinder, or box filled with rocks, concrete, or sometimes sand and soil for use in civil engineering, road building, military applications and landscaping. For erosion control, caged riprap is used. The structure will fail when the wire fails. Galvanized steel wire is most common, but PVC-coated and stainless steel wire are also used. PVC-coated galvanized gabions have been estimated to survive for 60 years. Some gabion manufacturers guarantee a structural consistency of 50 years.