According to the Theory of Plate Tectonics, the Earth's crust was initially a single, giant super-continent called Pangea. Its northern part was the Angara land and the southern part was the Gondwana land. (ii) South America, part of Africa (south Africa including Madagascar), part of Asia (India, Arabia, Malaya), Australia and Antarctica continents were parts of
Plate size can vary greatly, from a few hundred to thousands of kilometers across; the Pacific and Antarctic Plates are among the largest. Plate thickness also varies greatly, ranging from less than 15 km for young oceanic lithosphere to about 200 km or more for ancient continental lithosphere. Solution: The northern plain has been formed by the interplay of the three major river systems, namely– the Indus, the Ganga and the Brahmaputra along with their tributaries. This plain is formed of alluvial soil.
1 The Himalayas are formed of the sedimentary rocks. 2  They are formed at the edge of the Indo-Gangetic Plain. 3  Important hill stations like-Shimla, Mussoorie, Darjeeling, Nainital are found on the Himalayas. 4  They are a part of the oldest structures of the Indian subcontinent. 1 Gondwana Land included South America, part of Africa (south Africa including Madagascar), part of Asia (India, Arabia, Malaya), Australia and Antarctica, prior to its break-up under the forces causing continental-drift.
When tectonic plates move towards each other, they are called converging plates. When tectonic plates move away from each other, they are called diverging plates. They collide or crumble or one of them slides under the other while moving towards each other. (ii) South America, part of Africa (south Africa including Madagascar), part of Asia (India, Arabia, Malaya), Australia and Antarctica continents were parts of the Gondwana land.
2. The Lithosphere is broken into number of plates. The convectional currents present below the solid layer of the earth’s crust split the crust or the lithosphere into a number of large fragments or plates. These major or minor rigid plates are called tectonic or lithospheric plates. Tectonic plates are large plates of rock that make up the foundation of the Earth 's crust and the shape of the continents. hope it is helpfull. Posted by Ashish Jindal on 8/5/12.
Solution: The crust (upper part) of the earth has been formed out of seven major and some minor plates. These are called tectonic plates. A Tectonic plate (also called lithospheric plate) is a massive, irregularly shaped slab of solid rock, generally composed of both continental and oceanic lithosphere. Solution: The northern plain has been formed by the interplay of the three major river systems, namely– the Indus, the Ganga and the Brahmaputra along with their tributaries. This plain is formed of alluvial soil.
(i) Large fragments of the Earth’s crust torn due to the rising currents are called tectonic plates. (ii) South America, part of Africa (south Africa including Madagascar), part of Asia (India, Arabia, Malaya), Australia and Antarctica continents were parts of the Gondwana land.
You will be puzzled to hear that Lithosphere, the part of the land over which humans live, made of Earth’s crust and mantle is a continuously moving layer of Earth. The lithosphere is divided into big chunks of landmass called Tectonic Plates; which makes the actual movement possible. These plates can be bigger than even a continent. 
1. Tectonic plates are large plates of rock that make up the foundation of the Earth 's crust and the shape of the continents. hope it is helpfull. Posted by Ashish Jindal on 8/5/12.