The original Traffic version of the song, filled with the corresponding melancholy, was issued as Feelin' Alright? - the question mark providing a vital clue to the content. Joe Cocker's version scrapped the punctuation and was issued as Feeling Alright, which is how it was listed on most subsequent covers. Two chords was it.. Mason had left the band when he wrote the song (he split before their first album was released), but when he returned to New York after his time in Hydra, he ran into his bandmates, who were working on the group's second album.
Dave Mason wrote Feelin' Alright at the young age of 19 while on vacation on the island of Hydra, Greece. As most great songs it was intiially a love song (although Dave has never publically decried the recepient of such an honor). Over 40 cover versions have been recorded! Feelin' Alright has been featured in several dozen films and TV commercials. It is believed that Feelin' Alright is one of the most beloved rock n' roll songs of our time.
Dave wrote Feelin' Alright on the enchanting Greek Island of Hydra when he was 19. Traffic was the first to release Feelin' Alright', 1968. Joe Cocker charted twice with Feelin' Alright, 1969 #69, and 1972 #33. It continues to be a fan favorite. Over 40 cover versions have been recorded! Feelin' Alright has been featured in several dozen films and TV commercials. It is believed that Feelin' Alright is one of the most beloved rock n' roll songs of our time.
Feeling Good  (also known as  Feelin' Good ) is a song written by English songwriters Anthony Newley and Leslie Bricusse for the musical The Roar of the Greasepaint – The Smell of the Crowd. 
The following year, he kept the song in the set list for ‘Mad Dogs & Englishmen,’ his signature live LP and one of the best concert recordings of the ’70s. Both versions proved substantially different from the original ‘Feelin’ Alright,’ written by Traffic guitarist Dave Mason for the band’s self-titled 1968 album. 
, also known as Feeling Alright, is a song written by Dave Mason of the English rock band Traffic from their eponymous 1968 album Traffic, which reached #123 on the US chart. Cocker included this song live in his double album Mad Dogs & Englishmen. Cocker had just arrived in LA on March 11, 1970, for some R&R from his just completed tour, and then forming a new band to perform with during the coming summer.
Feelin' Alright By Three Dog Night. back to top. Feelin' Alright was first released by Three Dog Night on their studio album Suitable For Framing, and then again on their 1969 Captured Live at the Forum, which reached #6 on the Billboard album chart. Over 40 cover versions have been recorded! Feelin' Alright has been featured in several dozen films and TV commercials. It is believed that Feelin' Alright is one of the most beloved rock n' roll songs of our time.
Covers By Other Artists. Joe Cocker had a hit single twice with Feelin' Alright, first in 1969 and second in 1972. The Black Crowes played, as Letterman called it, the classic song of Feelin' Alright for Late Night with David Letterman's anniversary show. Over 40 cover versions have been recorded! Feelin' Alright has been featured in several dozen films and TV commercials. It is believed that Feelin' Alright is one of the most beloved rock n' roll songs of our time.
OK, I think that this song is about relationships, but I think it was really about Dave's relationship with his bandmates in Traffic. I believe this song was on their second album and was written after the first break up. 0. General Comment This song is one of the best songs about divorce ever written. The first line should be Seems I've got to have a change of SCENE and the verse goes on to discuss being tortured by thoughts of how things might have turned out better.