The deepest point in the ocean is, not surprisingly, in the Mariana Trench. It is called the Challenger Deep, after the British ship Challenger II, which discovered this point in 1951 while surveying. The Challenger Deep lies along the southern end of the Mariana Trench near the Mariana Islands. The trench is 1,554 miles long and 44 miles wide, and is like the Grand Canyon of the ocean, although it is 120 times larger. Contrary to what you might picture, the trench is wide-according to NOAA, almost 5 times wider than it is deep. The Mariana Trench is located in the western North Pacific Ocean.
The trench is not the part of the seafloor closest to the center of the Earth. This is because the Earth is not a perfect sphere; its radius is about 25 kilometres (16 mi) less at the poles than at the equator. The Mariana Trench is part of the Izu-Bonin-Mariana subduction system that forms the boundary between two tectonic plates. In this system, the western edge of one plate, the Pacific Plate, is subducted (i.e., thrust) beneath the smaller Mariana Plate that lies to the west.
Location of the Mariana Trench. The Mariana Trench or Marianas Trench is the deepest part of the world's oceans. It is located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. The trench is about 2,550 kilometres (1,580 mi) long but has an average width of only 69 kilometres (43 mi). The Mariana Trench is part of the Izu-Bonin-Mariana subduction system that forms the boundary between two tectonic plates. In this system, the western edge of one plate, the Pacific Plate, is subducted (i.e., thrust) beneath the smaller Mariana Plate that lies to the west.
Answer: The ocean's deepest area is the Mariana Trench (also called the Marianas Trench), which is about 11 km (almost 7 miles, or almost 36,000 feet) deep. The trench is 1,554 miles long and 44 miles wide, and is like the Grand Canyon of the ocean, although it is 120 times larger. Contrary to what you might picture, the trench is wide-according to NOAA, almost 5 times wider than it is deep. The Mariana Trench is located in the western North Pacific Ocean.
The five oceans of the world viz the Atlantic ocean, Arctic ocean, Indian ocean, Pacific ocean, and Southern ocean are characterized by a specific location, depth, and size. Pacific Ocean is the largest and deepest ocean in the world. It covers a surface area of 65.3 million square miles or 169.2 million in square kilometers spreading from the Arctic ocean to the Southern ocean. Average Depth of Oceans. Every water body has a deepest part, as compared to other regions. The same is applicable to the five oceans of the world. Apart from the Mariana Trench, here is a list of the five oceans along with their deepest part.
The average depth of the ocean is about 2.65 miles (14,000 ft) deep. The deepest part of the ocean is called the Challenger Deep, which is about 6.86 miles (36,200 ft) deep. Challenger Deep is located beneath the western Pacific Ocean in the southern end of the Mariana Trench. 
Deepest Part of the Ocean The Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench is the deepest known location in Earth's oceans. 
The Mariana Trench or Marianas Trench is the deepest part of the world's oceans. It is located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. The Mariana Trench is part of the Izu-Bonin-Mariana subduction system that forms the boundary between two tectonic plates. In this system, the western edge of one plate, the Pacific Plate, is subducted (i.e., thrust) beneath the smaller Mariana Plate that lies to the west.
The Mariana Trench is so deep because it is an area where two of the Earth's plates converge and one (the Pacific plate) is subducted, or dives underneath, the other (the Philippine plate). During this slow process, the Philippine plate also gets pulled down. The trench is 1,554 miles long and 44 miles wide, and is like the Grand Canyon of the ocean, although it is 120 times larger. Contrary to what you might picture, the trench is wide-according to NOAA, almost 5 times wider than it is deep. The Mariana Trench is located in the western North Pacific Ocean.
down! The average depth of the ocean is about. . The deepest part of the ocean is called the Challenger Deep and is located beneath the western Pacific Ocean in the southern end of the Mariana Trench, which runs several hundred kilometers southwest of the U.S. territorial island of Guam. Challenger Deep is approximately. deep