The median annual wage for medical assistants was $29,370 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $21,080, and the top 10 percent earned more than $41,570.
A certified medical assistant is a medical assistant who has passed the examination issued by the American Association of Medical Assistants. The medical assistant certification is considered to be a professional seal of approval that individuals have the necessary knowledge and expertise to work as medical assistants.
The AAMA CMA Certification Examination is a comprehensive test of the knowledge actually needed in today's medical office. The exam is given by the American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA), the premier organization dedicated to serving the interests of Certified Medical Assistants.
Certification status is a matter of public record and may be released. Your CMA (AAMA) Certification status can be verified on the Verify Employee CMA (AAMA) Status page. The AAMA receives 100 or more requests per day to verify that current or potential medical assistant employees are CMAs (AAMA).
While you can work as a medical assistant without being certified, employers are more often looking for the best of the best. Becoming certified through the AAMA demonstrates to employers, coworkers, and patients that you have mastered the knowledge and skills necessary to provide high quality service.
While a medical assistant certification is not required by law for those working in the field, a large percentage of professionals choose to become certified.
The American Association of Medical Assistants (AAMA) awards the Certified Medical Assistant credential. You must renew the CMA credential every 5 years. The AAMA Certification/Recertification Examination is offered year-round. To schedule your test, you'll make an appointment to take the test and pay an enrollment fee.
The Certified Medical Administrative Assistant (CMAA) is a nationally recognized certification for Medical Administrative Assistants. It demonstrates your ability to perform routine administrative tasks in a physicians’ office or clinic to keep it running efficiently.
In order to be eligible for medical assistant certification, you must first graduate from a medical assistant training program that is accredited by the Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools (ABHES) or the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Programs (CAAHEP).