Zinc is an essential mineral that is found in every cell in our body. It stimulates the activity of about 100 enzymes, substances that promote biochemical reactions in your body. Consuming zinc on an empty stomach can cause nausea, so take zinc supplements with food. Zinc deficiency most often happens when its intake is inadequate or it is poorly absorbed, when there are increased losses of zinc from the body, or when the body's requirement for zinc increases.
Zinc. A trace mineral that’s needed for important functions in the body, Zinc is essential to the skeletal muscles and bones, as well as insulin function and immune health. But with it being such a popular mineral in high demand, there are numerous brands that make it as a supplement. 
Comments about the Vitamin Shoppe Zinc 50 MG - 100 Capsules : I take zinc daily. This form of zinc is bio-available over tablet forms. As a nurse being in close contact with sick people, I take it as part of a plan to keep my immune system boosted daily. It is also good for my skin. 
Zinc may help vitamin D to work inside the cells of your body. It’s also important in making sure that the calcium you get from foods or supplements is used in your bones. Vitamin D and zinc work together to strengthen your bones and to help them develop properly. 
Zinc is needed for the formation and maintenance of the skin and mucous membranes. People with skin ulcers are often deficient in zinc, according to the Office of Dietary Supplements. Additionally, insufficient vitamin C can lead to scurvy, a disease that causes connective tissue weakness and gum bleeding. Zinc and vitamin C may prevent vision loss in older people by delaying the progression of age-related macular degeneration, or AMD. In one study reported by the Office of Dietary Supplements, high intakes of zinc and antioxidants, including vitamin C, reduced the risk of AMD in elderly people.
Zinc (Zn) is a transition metal belonging to group 12 of the periodic table. As an essential trace element zinc has substantial biological importance for plants and animals. Zinc is responsible for a number of different functions in the human body and it helps stimulate the activity of 100 different enzymes.
If you choose to take supplements, consult your doctor. Vitamin C and zinc supplements can interfere with a number of medicines. Plus, high doses can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and stomach cramps. Zinc and vitamin C may prevent vision loss in older people by delaying the progression of age-related macular degeneration, or AMD. In one study reported by the Office of Dietary Supplements, high intakes of zinc and antioxidants, including vitamin C, reduced the risk of AMD in elderly people.
Zinc is a metal. It is called an “essential trace element” because very small amounts of zinc are necessary for human health. Zinc is used for treatment and prevention of zinc deficiency and its consequences, including stunted growth and acute diarrhea in children, and slow wound healing. It is also used for boosting the immune system, treating the common cold and recurrent ear infections, and preventing lower respiratory infections. There is also concern that taking large amounts of a multivitamin plus a separate zinc supplement increases the chance of dying from prostate cancer. Taking 450 mg or more of zinc daily can cause problems with blood iron. Single doses of 10-30 grams of zinc can be fatal.
Zinc is an essential mineral that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. Zinc is also found in many cold lozenges and some over-the-counter drugs sold as cold remedies. Zinc is involved in numerous aspects of cellular metabolism. 
Vitamin C and zinc have many health benefits. Vitamin C and zinc have many health benefiits, including aiding immunity, reducing the risk of age-related eye diseases and helping wounds heal. Vitamin C also helps the absorption of plant-based iron, while zinc is required for the body to make DNA and for cell division. Meat and seafood are the best sources of zinc, while friuts and vegetables are good sources of vitamin C. Zinc is also found in cold lozenges and over-the-counter cold medicines. Zinc and vitamin C may prevent vision loss in older people by delaying the progression of age-related macular degeneration, or AMD. In one study reported by the Office of Dietary Supplements, high intakes of zinc and antioxidants, including vitamin C, reduced the risk of AMD in elderly people.