Shinola watches range in price from $475 to $995. It also makes luxury bicycles, $1,950 to $2,950, and leather journals. The brand’s other products include “Shinola Cola” and, as a throwback, actual shoe polish. FORTUNE — Judith Walker used to have to drive more than an hour to get to her job at the General Motors plant in Lake Orion, Mich. Now, she commutes about five minutes to get to her job in Detroit. But she’s not making cars, she’s assembling the near-microscopic components of $700 watches.
The Shinola bikes are assembled in a workshop in the company's newly opened flagship Detroit retail store, which sells the bikes and the watches. Shinola has also just opened a retail location in the New York City neighborhood of Tribeca. The road to this Motor City start-up began with a simple idea: We wanted to manufacture in the United States, recalled Heath Carr, chief executive of Shinola, the maker of Detroit-built watches and bicycles. (Yep, the company derived its name from the World War II phrase, You don't know s--- from Shinola.). The new Shinola, which bought the rights to the name but doesn't have anything to do with the old shoe polish company, has been in business for about 2½ years. It currently has more than 100 employees—75 of whom are in Detroit, where the company's precision watches and bicycles are assembled
A colloquialism which dates back to the early 1940s in the United States, sometimes ended with that's why your shoes don't shine. [1] Shinola was a popular brand of shoe polish, which had a color and texture not unlike feces. 
An ambitious new manufacturing company is repurposing the Shinola brand (as in you don’t know s**t from … ) to tell a unique story of American craftsmanship. Having your brand name become part of the common lexicon is a marketing coup of the highest order. In the case of Shinola’s new watches, part of that story is construction in a fifth-floor factory above a Detroit design college.
The company markets the Shinola out of Detroit, printing the city name on every product, even shoe polish made in Chicago (although it continues to move more production to Michigan). DETROIT — You may not know you-know-what from Shinola, but no worries. Shinola does. No, not the World War II-era shoe polish that gave rise to that unprintable colloquialism.
The goal is 500,000. Nearly a century ago, the name Shinola (pronounced SHY-nola) referred to a brand of shoe polish, immortalized in the old-timey saying, “You don’t know shit from Shinola.” Defunct for years, the watchmakers bought the slightly irreverent brand name and are hoping to shine up its reputation. FORTUNE — Judith Walker used to have to drive more than an hour to get to her job at the General Motors plant in Lake Orion, Mich. Now, she commutes about five minutes to get to her job in Detroit. But she’s not making cars, she’s assembling the near-microscopic components of $700 watches.
The original Shinola shoe polish brand was founded in Rochester New York in 1907, and went out of business in 1960. In 2001, the name Shinola was acquired by Bedrock Manufacturing, a venture capital firm based in Dallas, Texas (later rechristened as Bedrock Brands). Kartsotis wanted to create an American watch-manufacturing brand to rival Swiss-makers at a lower price point.
Shinola is an American luxury lifestyle brand which specializes in watches, bicycles, and leather goods among items. Founded in 2011, its name is a nod to the former Shinola shoe polish company that was manufactured in the early-and mid-20th century. In 2001, the name Shinola was acquired by Bedrock Manufacturing, a venture capital firm based in Dallas, Texas (later rechristened as Bedrock Brands). Kartsotis wanted to create an American watch-manufacturing brand to rival Swiss-makers at a lower price point.
Before Washington, D.C., became America’s capital in 1800, the Congress met in a number of different locations, including Baltimore, Trenton and New York City. 