Avocados are rich in lutein, fiber, vitamins B6, C and E, potassium, magnesium and folic acid. Its monounsaturated fats help reduce LDL (bad) cholesterol and can help prevent heart disease. A medium avocado has approximately 276 calories. It's rich in protein and healthy fats, and low in cholesterol. Peanut Butter has been linked to improved fat burning, muscle mass buildup and even cardiovascular health. At 100 calories per tablespoon, it should be consumed in moderation. — LuckyPix/Corbis.
Bananas are rich in vitamin A, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6, folic acid, fiber and potassium. They make a nutritious snack that will keep you satisfied. A large banana has 120 calories, almost double the calories of other fruits, but its benefits far outweigh its high caloric content. It's rich in protein and healthy fats, and low in cholesterol. Peanut Butter has been linked to improved fat burning, muscle mass buildup and even cardiovascular health. At 100 calories per tablespoon, it should be consumed in moderation. — LuckyPix/Corbis.
High energy density means that there are a lot of calories in a little food. Low energy density means there are few calories in a lot of food. When you're striving for weight loss, the goal is to eat low-energy-dense foods. That is, you want to eat a greater volume of food that's lower in calories.
High protein low calorie foods are an effective way to help build lean muscle without adding to the total number of calories for the day. In many instances a high protein food is also high in calories, so you end up getting the benefit of the protein, but the drawback of an excessive amount of calories. 1. Shrimp (4.13 calories per gram of protein). Shrimp is one of the highest protein, lowest calorie foods you can eat, so if you’re looking to keep your calories down but still meet your protein needs for the day, this is your best bet.
In a useful infographic on calorie counts of some of the most popular foods, fitness and nutrition site How Many Calories Counter put together a list of unhealthy and healthy foods with high amounts of calories. The site found 100 grams of peanut butter for example, on average has 589 calories. 
Website Lasting Weight Loss. There are many foods that are rich in calories. It all depends on how much food is in question, but also how healthy it is. Candy, chocolates, pastries, and cakes will all tend to be high in calories. The starch-rich foods are: Cereals and cereal foods of various kinds, such as breakfast foods-oatmeal, cornmeal, wheat, rice, rye, barley-and breads; macaroni, tapioca, and ot … her manufactured foods; legumes, such as dried peas, beans, and lentils; vegetables rich in starch, such as the potato and the dasheen.
Peanut Butter. It's rich in protein and healthy fats, and low in cholesterol. Peanut Butter has been linked to improved fat burning, muscle mass buildup and even cardiovascular health. At 100 calories per tablespoon, it should be consumed in moderation. — LuckyPix/Corbis.
Best Answer: Formulation of a Food Calories List Food Calories list is devised by segregating different types of food with different calories. It even indicates the fluctuation in calories that can occur with the cooking procedure. We get the information of the calorie consumption is taking place while having a vegetable raw or by cooking them in butter, olive oil or having them steamed. Therefore, you can conceive your own menu, eating your favorite food. The number of calories in the following list is expressed for 100 units (100g or 100 ml. for liquids). 1. We’ll begin with meat and fish and different dishes prepared with meat or fish
High Calorie Foods. We have sorted our database of over 7000 food nutrition items based on the amount of calories in 100 grams to give a list of High Calorie Foods. This page shows the amount of Calorie in Fish oil, sardine through to Oil, corn, peanut, and olive. The amount ranges from 902 kcal through to 884 kcal of Calorie in 100g. To get a full nutrition breakdown which can be scaled for different food amounts, simply click on the below Calorie Foods. Please remember that this gives an indication of Calorie rich foods.