Receptors. Receptors are groups of specialised cells. They can detect changes in the environment, which are called stimuli, and turn them into electrical impulses. Receptors are often located in the sense organs, such as the ear, eye and skin. Each organ has receptors sensitive to particular kinds of stimulu
Detection and Response To Stimulus. The response of a cell or an organism to a stimulus is all the processes that occur as a result of the stimulus occurring within or outside the cell or organism. 
Receptor cells and organs. The cells and organs that receive internal and external stimuli are called receptors. These receptors vary in complexity from single cells to complex organs. Their function is to receive information from the external and internal environment and to convey that information to the nervous system. 
Weber's law. The principle that two stimuli must differ by a constant minimum percentage (rather than a constant amount) to be perceived as different. p. 183. Log In. You must be a registered user to view the premium content in this website. If you already have a username and password, enter it below. Neurons in the brain's visual system that respond to particular lines or other features of a stimulus. p. 192. figure-ground relationship. People organize the perceptual field into stimuli that stand out (figure) and those that are left over (background).
Receptors. Receptors are groups of specialised cells. They can detect changes (stimuli) in the environment. Receptors are often located in the sense organs, such as the ear, eye and skin. Each organ has receptors sensitive to particular kinds of stimulus. The table shows some receptors and the stimuli they detect. The sense organs contain receptors that are sensitive to stimuli. The nervous system consists of the central nervous system-brain and spinal cord-and peripheral nerves. Nerve impulses travel through the axons of neurones-nerve cells.
Olfactory Organs. contain olfactory epithelium with olfactory receptors (neurons sensitive to chemicals dissolved in the overlying mucus), supporting cells, and basal (stem) cells. Supporting Cells. columnar epithelial cells of the mucous membrane lining the nose; provide physical support, nourishment, and electrical insulation for the olfactory receptors, and they help detoxify chemicals that come in contact with the olfactory epithelium.
Neuron endings. Specialized cells in close contact with neurons. These receptors transduce. (convert) the energy of the stimulus into electrical signals that are then transmitted by the neurons. Sensory receptors and other types of cells make the sense organs: eyes, ears, nose, taste buds. There are six senses recognized by biologists: sight, hearing, smell, taste, touch and balance. Ganglion cells transmit specific types of visual stimuli such color, brightness and motion. The optic nerves cross the floor of the hypothalamus and form the optic chiasm. Some axons crossover to the other side of the brain.
A taste receptor is a type of receptor which facilitates the sensation of taste. When food or other substances enter the mouth, molecules interact with saliva and are bound to taste receptors in the oral cavity and other locations. Molecules which give a sensation of taste are considered sapid. 
THe part of the ear that includes the oval window, cochlea, and basilar membrane and whose function is the convert sound waves into neural impulses and send them to the brain. Term. Cochlea. Definition. Tubular, fluid-filled structure that is coiled up like a snail. 