1 Add Old Bay Seasoning to taste, and bring to a boil. 2  Add potatoes, and sausage, and cook for about 10 minutes. 3  Add the corn and crab; cook for another 5 minutes, then add the shrimp when everything else is almost done, and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. 1 Add the corn and crab; cook for another 5 minutes, then add the shrimp when everything else is almost done, and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. 2  Drain off the water and pour the contents out onto a picnic table covered with newspaper.
1 In an 8-quart stock pot, bring Old Bay, salt, water and beer to a boil. 2  Add potatoes and onions; cook over high heat for 8 minutes. 3  Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 4  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 5  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 1 Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 2  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 3  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 4  Drain cookin liquid; pour contents of pot into several large bowl or shallow pails. 5  Sprinkle with additional Old Bay.
Start off your seafood boil by bringing 6 to 8 quarts water to a rolling boil. Add Zatarain's crab boil and red potatoes and cook for about 15 minutes. Next add sausage and sweet corn to the boiling water and cook for another 10 minutes until the red potatoes are tender. 
1 Add potatoes and onions; cook over high heat for 8 minutes. 2  Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 3  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 4  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 5  Drain cookin liquid; pour contents of pot into several large bowl or shallow pails. 1 Add smoked sausage; continue to cook on high for 5 minutes. 2  Add corn to pot; continue to boil for 7 minutes. 3  Add shrimp in shells, cook for 4 minutes. 4  Drain cookin liquid; pour contents of pot into several large bowl or shallow pails. 5  Sprinkle with additional Old Bay.
1 While water is coming to a boil, in a deep sink rinse crabs in 2 or 3 changes of water. ( 2 Do not fill sink too full or crabs may crawl out.). 3  Add Zatarain's crab boil or 5 tablespoons Old Bay seasoning, cayenne, salt, lemons, and onions to boiling water and boil 5 minutes. 1 Add Zatarain's crab boil or 5 tablespoons Old Bay seasoning, cayenne, salt, lemons, and onions to boiling water and boil 5 minutes. 2  Add potatoes and garlic and boil until tender, about 15 minutes. 3  Transfer potatoes and garlic with a large sieve to a large platter and keep warm, covered with foil.
Directions. Fill a large pot with 4 quarts of water. Squeeze the lemon juice into the water and add the squeezed lemon halves. Add the Old Bay, garlic and onion. Tie the thyme sprigs together with kitchen twine and add to the pot. Cover and bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer and cook about 5 minutes. Add the potatoes to the pot and cook until just tender, about 10 minutes. Add the corn and cook 5 more minutes. Meanwhile, slice along the back of each shrimp through the shells; remove the veins and rinse the shrimp. Add to the pot, cover and cook until the shrimp curl and are just opaque, 2 to 3 minutes. 
1 Add potatoes, and sausage, and cook for about 10 minutes. 2  Add the corn and crab; cook for another 5 minutes, then add the shrimp when everything else is almost done, and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. 3  Drain off the water and pour the contents out onto a picnic table covered with newspaper. 1 Add the corn and crab; cook for another 5 minutes, then add the shrimp when everything else is almost done, and cook for another 3 or 4 minutes. 2
Directions. Bring 6 quarts of water to a boil in a large pot. When water is at a full boil, salt generously and then add bay leaves, crab boil seasoning, fennel seeds, peppercorns, red pepper flakes, coriander seeds, and lemons. Return to a boil, add artichokes, and cover. 