The ozone layer is important for any forms of life, because it  protects any organisms from pernicious activities of ultraviolet  sun rays. The extinction of ozone might lea … d to death of some kind  sensitive organisms, which are important food link on the Earth.
Ozone layer is present in the stratospheric stage of the atmosphere. If the ozone layer in the stratosphere is brought as it is on to the surface of the earth then it will form one inch thick layer. Depletion of ozone layer has become a major issue recently.
The ozone layer is a concentration of ozone molecules in the stratosphere. About 90% of the planet's ozone is in the ozone layer. The layer of the Earth's atmosphere that surrounds us is called the troposphere.
Ozone is a gas in the atmosphere that protects everything living on the Earth from harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays from the Sun. Without the layer of ozone in the atmosphere, it would be very difficult for anything to survive on the surface.
The ozone layer is important to living things on earth because, without it earth's atmosphere would be unprotected from the Sun's harmful UV rays. Damage from the Sun's UV ra … ys could cause serious health issues such as skin cancer.
How ozone protects us Ozone is a gas in the atmosphere that protects everything living on the Earth from harmful ultraviolet (UV) rays from the Sun. Without the layer of ozone in the atmosphere, it would be very difficult for anything to survive on the surface.
Ozone is the gas present in the atmosphere which has capacity to protect the living beings on the earth from the ultraviolet rays from the sun that are harmful. If there is no ozone layer in the atmosphere no living creature would have survived on the surface of the earth.
The ozone layer is a layer of ozone molecules (O2) in the upper atmosphere that screens out UV rays from the sun. It's important to humans because if the ozone layer thins the … n humans wont be protected from the suns rays which will then cause skin cancer and increase mortality rates. 2 people found this useful.
The ozone layer is a concentration of ozone molecules in the stratosphere. About 90% of the planet's ozone is in the ozone layer. The layer of the Earth's atmosphere that surrounds us is called the troposphere. The stratosphere, the next higher layer, extends about 10–50 kilometers above the Earth's surface.