Spanish is but one official language of Peru, though. Quechua (the language of the Inca Empire) was recently given official status and is still widely spoken, especially in the highlands, and there's a movement afoot to include Aymara as a national language. 
Peru language comprises of the official language and also the languages that are spoken by the people belonging to several areas of this country. Peru is such a country in South America, that is really interesting in regard of its diverse natural beauty, several races, variegated cultures and also the several languages. Spanish is the main official language of Peru. Two other most prominent languages of this country are, Aymara and Quechua. Spanish is the first official language in Peru. This language is used in almost all official activities and also is the language that is used by all the media in Peru
Latin American Spanish. The official language in Peru is Spanish. The Spanish spoken in all of South and Central America is different in many ways from that spoken in Spain. You might say the difference in the two major Spanish language areas is comparable to differences between British English and American English. Spanish was introduced in the 1500s by the Spanish conquerors of Peru. Before that, there were various languages spoken among the many different tribes and cultures throughout what is known now as Peru. Many of those languages were lost over time.
Peru has two official languages: Spanish and Quechua, the native Inca language. Most Peruvian people speak Spanish. Peru’s main economic activities include agriculture, fishing, mining, and manufacturing. 
Quechua is the second most common language in Peru and the most widely spoken native language. 13% of the population of Peru speak it, mostly in the central and southern highlands of the country. Quechua was the language of the Inca Empire, but it existed for many years before the Incas came to power. Spanish is spoken by approximately 84% of the Peruvian population, making it by far the most widely spoken language in Peru. It is also the main language of the Peruvian government, the media, and the education system.
Peru's official language is Spanish, but quechua is also spoken by the native peruvians in some parts of the country. Huascaran is the name of a famous mountain in the south … of Peru. 
The two major native languages being spoken extensively in Peru are Quechua and Aymara and there are also a moderate number of inhabitants of Peru speaking a couple of other languages. Click here to post comments. Join in and write your own page! It's easy to do. Spanish was introduced in the 1500s by the Spanish conquerors of Peru. Before that, there were various languages spoken among the many different tribes and cultures throughout what is known now as Peru. Many of those languages were lost over time.
The people of Peru speak three different languages: Spanish, Quechua (both of these are considered official languages) and Aymara, which although it is spoken widely in Peru, is not considered an official language as such. 