Setting your thermostat during the summer. Generally, our bodies are most comfortable when the air inside of our home is within a degree of two of a steady 75 degrees F during the hot, summer months. This temperature setting, however, is only necessary when your house is occupied during waking hours. When you’re awake and at home during the colder months of the year, your furnace will keep you comfortably warm at about 68 degrees. Just as during the summer, you can save money on your heating bills by lowering your thermostat a few degrees at eight-hour intervals – either while you’re at work or are asleep.
However, let’s say we adopt a more sensible temperature policy. We keep our home temperature at 78 F during the summer and 62 F during the winter. Now, we’re simply trying to lower the temperature 4 F on an average day in the summer, and we’re only raising our home temperature 48 F in the winter.
Now, if we keep our house at 70 F all year round, we’re going to be trying to lower the temperature 12 F in the peak of summer and heat our home 56 F during the peak of winter. Now, we’re simply trying to lower the temperature 4 F on an average day in the summer, and we’re only raising our home temperature 48 F in the winter.
Addthis. You can save 5%–15% on your cooling bills by raising the temperature setting on your thermostat when you are away and don't need cooling. Only lower the setting to 78°F when you are home and need cooling. A programmable thermostat can make it easy to adjust the temperature on a regular schedule
We keep our home temperature at 78 F during the summer and 62 F during the winter. Now, we’re simply trying to lower the temperature 4 F on an average day in the summer, and we’re only raising our home temperature 48 F in the winter. Because we adjust our home temperature seasonally, our air conditioner doesn’t run much at all on an average summer day
A few years ago I opened up a discussion, inviting locals to share the temperature at which they keep their home in the summer. I asked for the average temperature in Phoenix area house on a summer day when it is 100+ degrees outside, and you are at home. APS bills about $80 until A/C central jumps in then $100 to $180 with A/C set at 80 day 75 nights. Bye the way swamp cooler keep the house 25 degrees cooler April when it reached 105 degrees in Pheonix.
Now, if we keep our house at 70 F all year round, we’re going to be trying to lower the temperature 12 F in the peak of summer and heat our home 56 F during the peak of winter. 10 great summer cars. Photos of the Day Photos of the Day 10/07. Now, we’re simply trying to lower the temperature 4 F on an average day in the summer, and we’re only raising our home temperature 48 F in the winter.
Temperature -- Summer. In the summer, it is harder to predict what the average temperature inside a home is going to be, because some people set air conditioners very cold. Madison Gas and Electric recommends keeping the thermostat at 78 degrees when you're at home in the summer. This provides a comfortable living temperature. In the winter, most homes use a furnace to regulate the temperature of the house to a comfortable level. The average temperature of a home in the winter ranges between 68 and 70 degrees. While some people might like the house warmer or cooler than this, this is the average level. This is also a good range to leave the house at if you are unsure what constitutes a normal