Some of the more common conifers are spruces, pines, and firs. Precipitation in coniferous forests varies from 300 to 900 mm annually, with some temperate coniferous forests receiving up to 2,000 mm. The amount of precipitation depends on the forest location. In the northern boreal forests, the winters are long, cold and dry, while the short summers are moderately warm and moist.
tundra--long summers, mild winters savanna--low temperature, precipitation uniform during the year temperate broadleaf forest--relatively short growing season, mild winters temperate grasslands--relatively warm winters, most rainfall in summer tropical forests--nearly constant day length and temperature.
Forests in the temperate world experience a wide range of variability in temperature and precipitation. In regions where rainfall is broadly distributed throughout the year, deciduous trees mix with species of evergreens.
LOCATION: Most temperate, deciduous (leaf-shedding) forests are located in the eastern United States, Canada, Europe, China, Japan, and parts of Russia. Deciduous forests are broken up into five zones. The firstzone is the tree stratum zone.
1 A tundra/taiga ecotone. 2  An open coniferous forest (the section most properly called taiga). 3  the characteristic closed-canopy needleleaf evergreen boreal forest; and. 4  A mixed needleleaf evergreen-broadleaf deciduous forest, the ecotone with the Temperate Broadleaf Deciduous Forest.
Climate. Temperate broadleaf forests occur in areas of warm summers and cold winters, with precipitation often spread throughout the year but more seasonal in some areas. Snow is common in the northern part of the zone but decreases greatly to the south.
Introduction: The Temperate Broadleaf Deciduous Forest (TBDF)–especially in eastern North America, where is remains most intact–is known for the turning of the colors of its leaves to brilliant reds, oranges, and golds in autumn.
The temperate forest biome is home to some of the largest species of trees (including the Giant Sequoia and the Coast Redwood) and some of the most fascinating animals (including the Gray wolf and the Giant Panda) on our planet.
Many different kinds of trees, shrubs, and herbs grow in deciduous forests. Most of the trees are broadleaf trees such as oak, maple, beech, hickory and chestnut.