Advantages. The strength and flexibility of PEX tubing make it the most ideal material to use for piping. Not only can it withstand a maximum heat temperature of up till 200 degrees, but it can also withstand temperatures below freezing.
Maximum Safe Temperature. The tube can withstand a maximum heat temperature of 200 degrees Fahrenheit for applications for heating. In a plumbing project, the PEX is able to stand a maximum heat of up to 180 degrees Fahrenheit. Usually, the highest temperature limitation is listed on the PEX tubing in small prints.
In accordance with ASTM F876 Standard Specification for Cross-linked Polyethylene (PEX) Tubing, the excessive temperature and pressure capability for Uponor AquaPEX ® is 210°F (99°C) at 150 psi.
It does not say what a reasonable service temperature limit is for any of these materials. It just shows how they react to short term high temperatures in an oven. I can add that my Pex-Al-Pex collector performed well over a couple years with stagnation temperature events on a few occasions in the 230F area.
PEX Hot Water Line Temperature Rating. I looked at a house yesterday where a number of the hot water heating pipes for the boiler were replaced with the orange PEX tubes. The stamped temperature rating on the tubing is 180 degrees so I ran the boiler for a while to see how high the boiler temperature would go.
However, for in slab and joist applications this tubing can be difficult to work with. PEX-AL-PEX can is great for high temperature systems as well because it has a very low expansion rate of .156 per 100 feet for a 10° temperature rise.
PEX tube material is durable under the extremes of temperature and is a great material for other applications and hot water. The PEX tube is intended for hot and cold potable water distribution systems.
Temperature limitations are always noted on the print line of the PEX tubing. PEX systems are tested to and can be used with standard T and P relief valves that operate at 210 F and 150 psi. Some components of the plumbing system, might not last with pressures above 80 psi.., thus the reason for this limit in pressures.