In skin care, exfoliation is a process that removes the top layer of dead skin cells from the surface of the skin. This results in smoother skin and helps products like moistu … rizers sink into the skin, making the ingredients more effective. Salt and sugar scrubs are popular exfolinats, as are body brushes. 
Exfoliation involves the removal of the oldest dead skin cells on the skin's outermost surface. Exfoliation is involved in the process of all facials, during microdermabrasion or chemical peels at medical spas. Exfoliation can be achieved through mechanical or chemical means. Chemical exfoliation may involve the use of products that contain alpha hydroxy acids (AHAs), beta hydroxy acids (BHAs), or enzymes that act to loosen the glue-like substance that holds the cells together, allowing them to ease away. This type of exfoliation is recommended for people treating acne.
Exfoliation is the removal of the oldest dead skin cells that cling to the skin's outermost surface, or epidermis. Exfoliation is an important part of both facials and body treatments. When done correctly, exfoliation leaves the skin feeling smoother and fresher looking. Exfoliation also makes it easier for expensive facial products like serums to pentrate.
But you don't have to walk around with a dull complexion and ashen skin. There's an easy way to rejuvenate your skin -- you can exfoliate it. Exfoliation is a process that removes dead skin cells from the upper layer of the skin, revealing the healthy skin underneath. Your skin, which is the body's largest organ, has a pretty intense workload. Essentially, it acts as a protective wrapper, keeping everything underneath it safe from daily threats such as the harsh effects of the sun, wind, pollution and germ-filled grime.
In skin care, exfoliation is a process that removes the top layer of dead skin cells from the surface of the skin. 1 For the lips try gently brushing them with your toothbrush. 2  For your body try a sugar or salt scrub. 3  You can purchase these at drug and department stores or make your own from Epson salt, olive oil and a squeeze of lemon. 4  The Clarisonic is a popular exfoliation device.
Confidence votes 6. In skin care, exfoliation is a process that removes the top layer of dead skin cells from the surface of the skin. This results in smoother skin and helps products like moisturizers sink into the skin, making the ingredients more effective. 1 For the lips try gently brushing them with your toothbrush. 2  For your body try a sugar or salt scrub. 3  You can purchase these at drug and department stores or make your own from Epson salt, olive oil and a squeeze of lemon. 4  The Clarisonic is a popular exfoliation device.
1) Mechanical Exfoliation. The dead skin cells are physically rubbed off with an abrasive. Examples of mechanical exfoliation include a salt glow, a body scrub that might use sugar or coffee grounds, or skin brushing. On the face, scrubs should use small, round, gentle abrasives like jojoba beads. Exfoliation is an important part of both facials and body treatments. When done correctly, exfoliation leaves the skin feeling smoother and fresher looking. Exfoliation also makes it easier for expensive facial products like serums to pentrate.
lamellar exfoliation of newborn a congenital hereditary disorder in which the infant is born covered with a collodionlike or parchmentlike membrane that peels off within 24 hours, after which there may be complete healing, or the scales may reform and the process may be repeated. 
Exfoliation is a form of mechanical weathering in which curved plates of rock are stripped from rock below. This results in exfoliation domes or dome-like hills and rounded boulders. Exfoliation domes occur along planes of parting called joints, which are curved more or less parallel to the surface. 
Exfoliation is the process in which rocks weather by peeling off in sheets rather than eroding grain by grain. (more below). Exfoliation can happen in thin layers on individual boulders, or it can take place in thick slabs as it does here, at Enchanted Rock in Texas. The great white granite domes and cliffs of the High Sierra, like Half Dome, owe their appearance to exfoliation.