The Four Seasons (Complete)Vivaldi cast The Four Seasons in the form of four concertos for solo violin and string orchestra. Concertos are designed to feature an instrument which not only enjoys an especially prominent role but plays technically brilliant, or virtuosic, passages. Between the ritornello’s several statements Vivaldi wrote virtuoso passages featuring his solo instrument. The ritornello form is an efficient organizing principle that Vivaldi used in nearly all of his concertos.
COMPOSITION. The Four Seasons (Italian: Le quattro stagioni) is a set of four violin concertos by Antonio Vivaldi. Composed in 1723, The Four Seasons is Vivaldi's best-known work, and is among the most popular pieces of Baroque music. The texture of each concerto is varied, each resembling its respective season. At the time of writing The Four Seasons, the modern solo form of the concerto had not yet been defined (typically a solo instrument and accompanying orchestra). Vivaldi's original arrangement for solo violin with string quartet and basso continuo helped to define the form. source: Wikipedia.
The sonnets’ tripartite structures align with the three movements of each concerto, which in turn provide vivid musical depictions of the corresponding text. The Four Seasons evinces Vivaldi’s importance to the development of the Baroque concerto. His contributions to the genre, which total more than five hundred, defined the concerto form as a dialog between soloist and ensemble and established certain formal characteristics as standards in concerto writing.
In the middle section of the Spring concerto, where the goatherd sleeps, his barking dog can be marked in the viola section. Other natural occurrences are similarly evoked. Vivaldi separated each concerto into three movements, fast-slow-fast, and likewise each linked sonnet into three sections. In addition to these sonnets, Vivaldi provided instructions such as The barking dog (in the second movement of Spring), Languor caused by the heat (in the first movement of Summer), and the drunkards have fallen asleep (in the second movement of Autumn).
The Four Seasons is the best known of Vivaldi's works. Unusually for the time, Vivaldi published the concerti with accompanying poems (possibly written by Vivaldi himself) that elucidated what it was about those seasons that his music was intended to evoke. In addition to these sonnets, Vivaldi provided instructions such as The barking dog (in the second movement of Spring), Languor caused by the heat (in the first movement of Summer), and the drunkards have fallen asleep (in the second movement of Autumn).
The Four Seasons (Italian: Le quattro stagioni) is a group of four violin concerti by Italian composer Antonio Vivaldi, each of which gives a musical expression to a season of the year. In addition to these sonnets, Vivaldi provided instructions such as The barking dog (in the second movement of Spring), Languor caused by the heat (in the first movement of Summer), and the drunkards have fallen asleep (in the second movement of Autumn).
'Spring' violin concerto in E major, 1st movement 'Allegro'. I recently got into 'The Four Seasons' a set of violin concertos by the baroque composer Antonio Vivaldi. 
But of equal importance to the formal innovations manifested in works like The Four Seasons are the breadth of their dramatic character and the extent of Vivaldi’s vision in imagining the expressive potential of the concerto form. His contributions to the genre, which total more than five hundred, defined the concerto form as a dialog between soloist and ensemble and established certain formal characteristics as standards in concerto writing.