The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organisation established on 24 October 1945 to promote international cooperation. It replaced the League of Nations and the organisation was created following World War II to prevent another conflict. The main building for the United Nations is in New York City in the United States of America, but the U.N. also has important offices in Geneva (Switzerland), Nairobi (Kenya) and Vienna (Austria). The U.N. tries to be peaceful, but sometimes when talks do not work the U.N., unlike the League of Nations, will fight too.
FUnctions of the united nations. The United Nations was founded in 1945. It's purpose is to keep the peace and stop war. Prior to the establishment of the UN, the League of Nations was responsible for maintaining world peace. However, after World War II erupted the league was deemed ineffectual. 
About the UN Description goes here. In 1945, nations were in ruins. World War II was over, and the world wanted peace. 51 countries gathered in San Francisco that year to sign a document. The document was a Charter, creating a new organization, the United Nations. 70 years later, the United Nations is maintaining international peace and security. I The Secretary-General of the United Nations is a symbol of the Organization's ideals and a spokesman for the interests of the world's peoples, in particular the poor and vulnerable.
The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic development, social progress, human rights and ultim … ately world peace. for a+ prevent war ;) class 2010-2011. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. It regulates the activity of the world's governments. That being said, the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation.
To ensure international peace and security.   The main purpose of the United Nations is to facilitate cooperation in international law, international security, economic de … velopment, social progress, human rights and ultimately world peace. Second the United Nations is in a basic sense is a world government. It regulates the activity of the world's governments. That being said, the amount of power the UN can exert on a sovereign nation is basically up to that nation.
The main organs of the UN are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice, and the UN Secretariat. All were established in 1945 when the UN was founded. The Secretary-General of the United Nations is a symbol of the Organization's ideals and a spokesman for the interests of the world's peoples, in particular the poor and vulnerable.
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. At its founding, the UN had 51 member states; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan, New York City, and experiences extraterritoriality. Further main offices are situated in Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna.
The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. The Secretary-General of the United Nations is a symbol of the Organization's ideals and a spokesman for the interests of the world's peoples, in particular the poor and vulnerable.
History and Principles of the United Nations. Prior to the United Nations (UN), the League of Nations was the international organization responsible for ensuring peace and cooperation between world nations. It was founded in 1919 to promote international cooperation and to achieve peace and security.. The United Nations is an international organization designed to make the enforcement of international law, security, economic development, social progress, and human rights easier for countries around the world.