Conflicts/Sharing. Conflicts/Sharing is located in the Hardware Resources category in System Information. It displays devices that share the same resources, such as direct memory access (DMA), IRQs, and memory. In general, shared resources are not problematic, but investigating potential conflicts can help resolve issues. 
Learn how you can verify any hardware conflicts in Device Manager. There are times when a program or device doesn't respond properly even after it is reinstalled. This can happen if devices on a computer attempt to share the same hardware or programming resources. You can check for such conflicts in Device Manager. If Device Manager lists any device conflicts, please contact your computer manufacturer for assistance in resolving the conflict. To check for hardware conflicts in Device Manager in Windows 7/Vista: 1. Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2. Double-click System and Security or System and Maintenance and continue to the next step.
Internet Fixes Question Of The Week! IF01118 57 Vista Run Commands Q. Is There A Standard Way Of Resolving Most Hardware Conflicts. A. A hardware conflict occurs when two devices try to use the same hardware resource, such as an IRQ or memory address. The telltale signs of a conflict is either a particular device not working, or your system hanging or crashing every time you try to use a specific device. Nearly all devices made since 1996 are Plug-&-Play (PnP), meaning that they adjust these settings automatically to avoid conflicts.
1 Switch the network card to a different interrupt. 2  Check for memory conflicts between the network card and other devices in the system. 3  Some network cards use an area of upper memory. 4  If the area of memory, the card used is configurable. 5  See the documentation for the network card. SUMMARY. Hardware conflicts are difficult to diagnose because they manifest themselves in different ways depending on the type of network card and what they are conflicting with (disk driver, sound board, and so on).
Check for hardware conflicts in Device Manager in Windows XP/2000/Me/98: 1. Open the Control Panel. 1  If you are using Windows XP, click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2  If you are using Windows 2000/Me/98, click Start, select Settings, and then click Control Panel. To check for hardware conflicts in Device Manager in Windows 7/Vista: 1. Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2. Double-click System and Security or System and Maintenance and continue to the next step.
Hardware conflict. A hardware conflict is an error that occurs when a hardware device in the computer conflicts with other hardware devices IRQs, I/O ports, or DMA. For example, if a hardware device in the computer shares the same I/O port as another device that would result in a hardware conflict. In the past, hardware conflicts were more common than they are today because each hardware device required that the user to configure the hardware resources using jumpers or dip switches.
Abbreviated as HW, Hardware is best described as any physical component of a computer system that contains a circuit board, ICs, or other electronics. A perfect example of hardware is the screen on which you are viewing this page. 
Confirm that there are no hardware conflicts. A black arrow pointing downward or a yellow exclamation mark (!) next to the device indicates a conflict. If there is a hardware conflict, please contact your computer manufacturer. To check for hardware conflicts in Device Manager in Windows 7/Vista: 1. Click Start, and then click Control Panel. 2. Double-click System and Security or System and Maintenance and continue to the next step.