Insulin and glucagon are hormones secreted by islet cells within the pancreas. They are both secreted in response to blood sugar levels, but in opposite fashion! Insulin is normally secreted by the beta cells (a type of islet cell) of the pancreas. The stimulus for insulin secretion is a HIGH blood glucose...it's as simple as that! Although there is always a low level of insulin secreted by the pancreas, the amount secreted into the blood increases as the blood glucose rises. In response to insulin, these cells absorb glucose out of the blood, having the net effect of lowering the high blood glucose levels into the normal range. Glucagon is secreted by the alpha cells of the pancreatic islets in much the same manner as insulin...except in the opposite direction.
Glucagon is the hormone that raises blood sugar levels. It is secreted by the pancreas, just like insulin is. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Alternative Approaches and Medicines for Type 2 Diabetes When you have type 2 diabetes, your body cannot properly metabolize sugar. 1 Recommended Blood Sugar Levels for Diabetics Diabetes affects your body's ability to properly dispose of the excess glucose in your bloodstream. 2  By maintaining recommended blood sugar levels, manage your diabetes and ma….
Glucagon is a peptide hormone, produced by alpha cells of the pancreas, that raises the concentration of glucose in the bloodstream. Its effect is opposite that of insulin, which lowers the glucose concentration. The pancreas releases glucagon when the concentration of glucose in the bloodstream falls too low. Glucagon causes the liver to convert stored glycogen into glucose, which is released into the bloodstream. High blood glucose levels stimulate the release of insulin. Insulin allows glucose to be taken up and used by insulin-dependent tissues
Continue ReadingPatient Guide to Insulin: About Diabetes. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). 
For homeostasis, insulin is the main hormone involved. Blood sugar regulation is the process by which the levels of blood sugar, primarily glucose, are maintained by the body. When levels of blood sugar rise, whether as a result of glycogen conversion, or from digestion of a meal, a different hormone is released from beta cells found in the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas.
The pancreas, insulin and blood sugar. Junk food, or foods high in sugar stimulate the pancreas to release insulin. Insulin's job is to lower blood sugar, by moving it into cells to be used for energy, or stored for later use. We store sugar for energy in two ways. To keep things simple, insulin lowers blood sugar, and cortisol raises blood sugar. This is what may sound confusing at first. When insulin goes up to lower blood sugar, cortisol goes up as well. It may sound odd.
There are also several other causes for an increase in blood sugar levels. Among them are the 'stress' hormones such as epinephrine (also known as adrenaline), several of the steroids, infections, trauma, and of course, the ingestion of food. When levels of blood sugar rise, whether as a result of glycogen conversion, or from digestion of a meal, a different hormone is released from beta cells found in the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas.
If the blood glucose level falls to dangerous levels (as in very heavy exercise or lack of food for extended periods), the Alpha cells of the pancreas release glucagon, a hormone whose effects on liver cells act to increase blood glucose levels. They convert glycogen into glucose (this process is called glycogenolysis). When levels of blood sugar rise, whether as a result of glycogen conversion, or from digestion of a meal, a different hormone is released from beta cells found in the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas.
1 Your body may not produce enough insulin to regulate your blood sugar levels, or your body resists 2  …. Analyzing Hyperthyroid Health With Thyroid Hormone Levels Hyperthyroidism is one of many thyroid conditions that are estimated to affect as many as 15 percent of the population or more. No it lowers your blood sugar. I should know i have it. Edit. Share to: 1  Alternative Approaches and Medicines for Type 2 Diabetes When you have type 2 diabetes, your body cannot properly metabolize sugar. 2  Your body may not produce enough insulin to regulate your blood sugar levels, or your body resists ….