Create Vertical Type in a Table Cell. Type the text you want to make vertical and select it. Open Table on the Insert tab and choose Convert Text to Table. Select OK to put the text in a cell. If you've already created your table, type your text into the cell whose format you want to change. Create Vertical Type in a Text Box. Select Text Box on the Insert tab and select Simple Text Box. Press Delete to remove the default content and type your own text. Image courtesy Microsoft. Create Vertical Type in a Text Box. Select the box and go to Text Direction on the Format tab in Drawing Tools.
2. Decide where you want to change the orientation of your text. To change the text orientation inside the body of a standard Word document, you will need to insert a text box. You can also change the text orientation inside a table. 1 In Word 2003 or older, you can also right-click on a text box and change the format by choosing Borders and Alignment. 2  You may find it easier to first enter your text in a text box or table cell and then change the orientation.
Change the vertical alignment of text on a page. Vertical alignment determines the position of the text within a section of a document relative to the top and bottom margins. Vertical alignment is often used to create a cover page or title page for a document. You can align the text at the top of the page, center the text, justify the text, or align the text at the bottom of the page. On the Page Layout tab, click the Page Setup Dialog Box Launcher, and then click the Layout tab. In the Vertical alignment box, click the option that you want. In the Apply to box, click Whole document, This section, or This point forward, and then click OK
Select the text that you want to center between the top and bottom margins. On the Page Layout tab, click the Page Setup Dialog Box Launcher, and then click the Layout tab. In the Vertical alignment box, click Center. In the Apply to box, click Selected text, and then click OK.
To change the direction of text using a text box or shape, insert a text box using the Text Box tool in the Text section of the Insert tab or a shape using the Shapes tool in the Illustrations section of the Insert tab. Enter text into the text box or shape. Make sure the text box or shape is selected and click the Format tab under Drawing Tools. In the Text section of the Format tab, click Text Direction and select an option to rotate the text. You can also select Text Direction Options from the Text Direction drop-down menu to rotate text. Select an Orientation on the Text Direction dialog box. A Preview displays on the right side of the dialog box. Click OK to accept your selection.
Create a cover page. In Office Word 2007, you can choose from a selection of predesigned cover pages to create a professional-looking document quickly and easily. On the Insert tab, in the Pages group, click Cover Page. Click the cover page that you want. You can align the text at the top of the page, center the text, justify the text, or align the text at the bottom of the page. On the Page Layout tab, click the Page Setup Dialog Box Launcher, and then click the Layout tab. In the Vertical alignment box, click the option that you want. In the Apply to box, click Whole document, This section, or This point forward, and then click OK
Vertical Text in Text Box. Open a new or existing document in Word 2007. Select Insert from the ribbon. Then choose Text Box and Draw Vertical Text Box from the Text group. Drag the text box in the area you want it to appear. Type your text into the text box. Select the Format tab from the ribbon. Vertical Text in Shapes. Select Insert from the ribbon. Then pick Shapes from the Illustration group. Find and select the shape you want to use. Then drag it on your page. Right-click on the shape and select Add Text from the pop-up list.