Gray had observed a dolphin swimming around a ship at 33 feet (10 meters) per second for seven seconds, and wondered how the animal could move so quickly. (See National Geographic's videos of dolphins and porpoises .). Once [the dolphins] got a feel for [the bubbles] on their skin, we were home free, said Williams. Flexible Flukes. The results showed that a dolphin's tail, or fluke, is more than capable of producing enough thrust to speed the mammal through the water.
How do dolphins swim so fast? dolphins swims so fast not because of their skin structure but because of large force exerted by their tail. dolphin can exert a force of 400lb by their tail as compared to o … lympic swimmers (produce only 60-70lb of force). They are called baiji. In South America, the pink river dolphin found … in the Amazon River and the Orinoco River is called a boto. Check out the link(s) below for more information regarding these endangered dolphins: yes if you dont belive me go look it up on google. 4 people found this useful.
Physics theory states that for something the size of a dolphin—and for the speed with which it travels through the ocean—water flow over the animal should be turbulent rather than smooth, Fish said. That turbulent flow creates a lot more drag that needs to be overcome than smooth flow does. Once [the dolphins] got a feel for [the bubbles] on their skin, we were home free, said Williams. Flexible Flukes. The results showed that a dolphin's tail, or fluke, is more than capable of producing enough thrust to speed the mammal through the water.
Dolphins can swim to 5 to 12 km per hour. They swim in the ocean and warm waters off the coast.they also swim in the river 32 Mph they can swim a hour per. They are called baiji. In South America, the pink river dolphin found … in the Amazon River and the Orinoco River is called a boto. Check out the link(s) below for more information regarding these endangered dolphins: yes if you dont belive me go look it up on google. 4 people found this useful.
On average an adult dolphin will eat 4-9% of its body weight in fish, so a 250 kg (550 lb) dolphin will eat 10-22.5 kg (22-50 lb) fish per day. The maximum age for bottlenose dolphins is between 40 and 50 years. The average age a dolphin can get (the life expectancy) is about 25 years. Dolphins have solved that by letting one half of their brain sleep at a time. Dolphins sleep about 8 hours a day in this fashion. REM (Rapid Eye Movement) sleep, usually associated with dreaming has been recorded only very rarely.
1 Bottlenose dolphins typically swim at 4 to 11 km per hour. 2  To swim they use their tail (flukes), which is the strongest part of their body. 3  They can go over 32 km per hour when they work hard. 4  The body shape of a dolphin helps it swim fast. 5  They are streamlined and so they almost don’t feel resistance of water. 1 How big do dolphins grow? 2  The biggest dolphin is the killer whale. 3  Killer whale calves are about 2.5 meter long at birth and grow to over 6 meter long. 4  Bottlenose dolphins are about 1 meter long at birth and grow to 2 or 3 meter.
Scientists have been trying to figure out how dolphins can swim so fast after Sir James Gray recorded a dolphin swimming over 22 miles per hour back in 1936. The size and shape of their body combined with the thrust force needed to move underwater at those speeds didn’t add up, creating what was known as Gray’s paradox. 
Please try again later. Scientists have been trying to figure out how dolphins can swim so fast after Sir James Gray recorded a dolphin swimming over 22 miles per hour back in 1936. The size and shape of their body combined with the thrust force needed to move underwater at those speeds didn't add up, creating what was known as Gray's paradox. 
We don't know how fast most dolphins swim but bottlenose dolphins typically swim at 3 to 7 miles per hour. They can go over 20 miles per hour when they work hard. The body shape of a dolphin helps it swim fast. Even though dolphins are warm-blooded, and their internal temperature is about 98 degrees, they need to conserve their body heat in colder water. Like most whales, the dolphin's body is surrounded by a thick layer of fat (called blubber) just under the skin that helps keep the dolphin warm.
The Amazon River Dolphin is also the largest of those that live in the rivers. The males are larger than the females. Males can be up to 8 feet long and for the females they can be about 7 feet long. The males can weigh close to 400 pounds with the females around 330 pounds. 