1 You can connect as the user you are trying to on the database server itself. 2  You can ping the database server from the computer you are trying to connect from. 3  You can tnsping the listener from the computer you are trying to connect from. 1 You can connect as sysdba on the database server itself. 2  You can connect as the user you are trying to on the database server itself. 3  You can ping the database server from the computer you are trying to connect from. 4
To connect to an Oracle DB instance with Information from the RDS Console. Once Amazon RDS provisions your DB instance, you can use any standard SQL client application to connect to the instance. In this example, you connect to a DB instance running the Oracle database engine using the Oracle command line tools. For more information on using Oracle, go to the Oracle website. Note. This example uses the Oracle sqlplus command line utility. This utility is part of the Oracle software distribution
If you download the free Oracle Instant Client you'd be able to use any JDBC or ODBC Database tool such as DbVisualizer or SquirrelSQL. Those are GUI tools; I've not come across a JDBC command line tool but there may be one out there. Oracle's free PL/SQL IDE SQL Developer can use Type 4 JDBC drivers to connect to a number of different types of databases, obviously including Oracle. You can use that without doing any sort of Oracle client install if you so desired.
The SQL*Plus Command Line Interface. SQL*Plus also comes with a command line interface. This is the interface you use when working from the command line. To start SQL*Plus at the command line you must do the following: 1. If connecting to a local database you must set the ORACLE_SID environment parameter to the name of your database. 
The TNSPING utility can be used to test an Oracle Service Name. To use it: 1.Open a Command Prompt (click Start, click Run, type cmd, and then click OK). 2.Type (for Oracle 7.3 or Oracle 8i and later) or (for Oracle 8.0), and then press enter. The TNS Ping Utility will result in an OK or a Connect failed message. An Oracle DBA may need to provide the correct connection information. The Oracle ODBC Test utility may be used to test an ODBC data source. To use it: 1  An Oracle Service Name (known as an Alias in versions prior to Oracle 8.0) defines the location (server name and port) and database (instance) for the connection.
Your sqlplus line looks correct, verify the following: 1  You can connect as sysdba on the database server itself. 2  You can connect as the user you are trying to on the database server itself. 1 You can connect as sysdba on the database server itself. 2  You can connect as the user you are trying to on the database server itself. 3  You can ping the database server from the computer you are trying to connect from. 4  You can tnsping the listener from the computer you are trying to connect from
In a windows environment, you have to have the Oracle services running before you can start an instance. The commands sqlplus /nolog connect /as sysdba can only be issued after the service is started. Use the net command as shown by the other posts. Bill You do not need a parachute to skydive. 3 sqlplus /nolog i can enter the sqlplus prompt. 4 connect /as sysdba failed,ORA-12560: TNS: protocol adapter error. if i start my oracle instance FIRST from the windows service console,then the connect /as sysdba works.
In the command-line interface, if you omit the username and password, SQL*Plus prompts you for them. Because CONNECT first disconnects you from your current database, you will be left unconnected to any database if you use an invalid username and password in your CONNECT command. When you are connected through the i SQL*Plus DBA URL, the Application Server authentication enables AS SYSDBA or AS SYSOPER connections through the DBA Login screen, or through a CONNECT command, but the Oracle Database username and password authentication may still prevent access.
impdp works with longs-not sure what issue you ran into, but it'll be fine. the sqlplus copy command doesn't use database links-not sure what that is about, the discussion on dblinks and unique names is a red herring, copy doesn't use them. I don't know why you have a from and a to, you just need one or the other. 