The Gearing ratio is the ratio of how much a business owes (debt) compared to the total of the debt plus the amount the owners have invested (equity). In the above example the total debt is £180,000 and the owners equity is £60,000. The Gearing Ratio is given by using the formula = Debt / (Debt + Owners Equity) x 100% = 180,000 / (180,000 + 60,000) x 100% = 180,000 / 240,000 x 100% = 75%. In this case the owners equity is reduced, possibly by losses and the gearing ratio has increased to 75%
Interest payable. Another variation on the gearing ratio is the long-term debt to equity ratio; it is not especially useful when a company has a large amount of short-term debt (which is especially common when no lenders are willing to commit to a long-term lending arrangement). 
A: Gearing ratios form a broad category of financial ratios of which the debt to equity ratio is the predominant example. Accountants, economists, investors, lenders and company executives all use gearing ratios to measure the relationship between owners' equity and debt. This difference is embodied in the difference between the debt ratio and the debt to equity ratio. Put another way, leverage refers to the use of debt. Gearing is a type of leverage analysis that incorporates owner's equity, often expressed as a ratio in financial analysis. The debt to equity ratio compares total liabilities to shareholders' equity
Answers. Best Answer: The debt/capital ratio (usually referred to as just the 'debt ratio') is a company's total debt divided by its total assets. The debt-equity ratio is a company's total debt divided by its total equity (equity is assets-liabilities). For example, if a company has 1,000,000 in assets, 500,000 in debt, and 250,000 in liabilities, its debt ratio is 50% but its debt-equity ratio is 67%
You often see the debt to equity ratio called the gearing ratio, although technically it would be more correct to refer to it as a gearing ratio. Gearing simply refers to financial leverage. Gearing ratios focus more heavily on the concept of leverage than other ratios used in accounting or investment analysis. This difference is embodied in the difference between the debt ratio and the debt to equity ratio. Put another way, leverage refers to the use of debt. Gearing is a type of leverage analysis that incorporates owner's equity, often expressed as a ratio in financial analysis. The debt to equity ratio compares total liabilities to shareholders' equity
For example, if a company has long-term debt of $100 million and total equity of $278 million, the debt-equity ratio of the firm is 36 percent. Of note, industries often have debt-equity ratio norms; therefore, investors should only compare ratios of firms operating in the same sectors. The total debt ratio compares the total liabilities with the total assets of a firm. Unlike the debt-equity ratio, short-term assets and liabilities are factored into the equation. The calculation is straightforward, the firm's total liabilities are divided by total assets.
By Sudhan P-August 23, 2013. Tweet. Gearing is a measure of financial leverage of a company or a real estate investment trust (REIT). For companies, examples of gearing ratios include the debt-to-equity ratio (total debt / total equity) or and debt ratio (total debt / total assets). 
Gearing ratio refers to the fundamental analysis ratio of a company's level of long-term debt compared to its equity capital. The point when processing what amount of debt an organization is undertaking as contrasted with its equity, the debt to equity ratio is generally utilized. 