I agree that 12 weeks is better. However, as a person in cat rescue, I can tell you that people like kittens. And if they are 12 weeks old, people still want them, but as they get 4-5 months old and start looking more like cats, they are less likely to be adopted. And no matter how sweet or cute the kitten, they are not all adopted. I've noticed that 6-8 weeks seems to be a quite normal adoption age for non-pedigreed kittens here. I find it kind of strange, since here in Finland cat-aware people (not meaning most people) insist on a minimum of 12 weeks. IMO kittens learn a lot from their siblings and mother during those few extra weeks.
Kittens gradually wean off their mothers milk around 8-12 weeks of age. By this time they are ready to eat kitten food and are spending most of their time away from their mother. RSPCA Australia considers the minimum acceptable age for a kitten to be removed from the mother cat for adoption or purchase to be 8 weeks of age. Waiting until the kitten is at least 8 weeks of age will help to ensure that the kitten has received adequate amounts of milk from the mother cat
At about 8 weeks of age, your kitten's mother will start to get a bit antsy and will start weaning her litter. She'll nurse less and less and encourage her kids to become more self-sufficient as she goes about her business. Around this time, you will be free to adopt him and bring him home to join your family. Not Too Young. All kittens are adorable, and you would think that the younger the kitten, the more mind-meltingly adorable it would be. While this may be true, adopting a kitten before he's old enough to leave his mother and litter mates could result in health issues and behavior problems. Most breeders and legitimate pet stores will only offer kittens for sale as young at 8 weeks, with some waiting until 12 weeks of age. This assures that the kitten is ready to be separated from his family and can tend to all of his own needs without assistance
The age your kitten will be adopted out will vary from shelter to shelter, breeder to breeder and even breed to breed. Shelters will generally adopt out kittens from the age of 10+ weeks, once they have had their vaccinations and are old enough, weigh enough to have been dexexed. Many breeders will hold on to kittens until they are 12 weeks of age, some will be kept until 16 weeks, especially the oriental type breeds such as Siamese who need a little more time with their mum.
6 weeks is too young to be adopted. 8 weeks is the absolute minimum. 12 weeks is ideal. Kittens learn a lot of social skills at that age from their mother and litter-mates such as not to bite, scratch, and play too rough. Most shelters will not let a kitten be adopted till at least 8 weeks old. Good, reputable breeders will not sell a kitten younger than 12 weeks. Do NOT adopt these kittens out till they are at least 8 weeks old.
Kittens can be adopted early but 8-10 weeks is the best age. When you bring your kitten home you should put him in a warm bathroom with his own litter pan with low sides and food and water placed as far from the litter as the room allows. A warm bed, too. Visit him in there often. Report Abuse. Mama cat starts weaning her babies at 6 weeks. The best age for kittens to go to their Forever Home is no younger than 8 weeks. You can get a kitten at 6 weeks but 8 weeks is best.
Minimum age should be 10 weeks-I feel ideal is 12-16 weeks. Younger then 10 weeks, the kittens lose out on important social behavior/mental behavior in playing with siblings and other adult cats other then their mother. Many kittens still nurse up to 10-12 weeks of age. They have to learn to be a cat and you see more behavior/social problems with young kittens deprived of this. 