Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Bauxite is used in cement, chemicals, face makeup, soda cans, dishwashers, siding for houses, and other aluminum products. It is recycled so that it can be used over again. 
In 2009, Australia was the top producer of bauxite with almost one-third of the world's production, followed by China, Brazil, India, and Guinea. Although aluminium demand is rapidly increasing, known reserves of its bauxite ore are sufficient to meet the worldwide demands for aluminium for many centuries. It consists mostly of the minerals gibbsite Al(OH) 3, boehmite γ-AlO(OH) and diaspore α-AlO(OH), mixed with the two iron oxides goethite and haematite, the clay mineral kaolinite and small amounts of anatase TiO 2.
Bauxite does not have a specific composition. It is a mixture of hydrous aluminum oxides, aluminum hydroxides, clay minerals and insoluble materials such as quartz, hematite, magnetite, siderite and goethite. The aluminum minerals in bauxite can include: gibbsite Al(OH) 3, boehmite AlO(OH), and, diaspore, AlO(OH). Bauxite is typically a soft (H:1-3), white to gray to reddish brown material with a pisolitic structure, earthy luster and a low specific gravity (SG: 2.0-2.5). Bauxite is found in abundance at many locations around the world. In 2010 the ten leading bauxite producing countries were: Australia, China, Brazil, India, Guinea, Jamaica, Russia, Kazakhstan, Suriname and Greece. Each of these countries has enough reserves for many years of continued production.
Synthetic mullite could be used in place of bauxite-based refractories. Bauxite is found in abundance at many locations around the world. In 2010 the ten leading bauxite producing countries were: Australia, China, Brazil, India, Guinea, Jamaica, Russia, Kazakhstan, Suriname and Greece. Each of these countries has enough reserves for many years of continued production.
Bauxite is the principal ore of aluminum. The first step in producing aluminum is to crush the bauxite and purify it using the Bayer Process. In the Bayer Process the bauxite is washed in a hot solution of sodium hydroxide which leaches aluminum from the bauxite. Bauxite is found in abundance at many locations around the world. In 2010 the ten leading bauxite producing countries were: Australia, China, Brazil, India, Guinea, Jamaica, Russia, Kazakhstan, Suriname and Greece. Each of these countries has enough reserves for many years of continued production.
Bauxite Types and Uses. Bauxite is aluminium-rich ore that is used for aluminium production (the metallurgical bauxites) and for production of refractory materials, chemicals or cements (the non-metallurgical bauxites). Alumina refineries extract pure alumina from bauxite by dissolution in hot caustic soda followed by purification and precipitation of alumina powder which is aluminium oxide (Al2O3) – the raw material for smelting into pure aluminium metal by electrolytic reduction in a molten bath at aluminium smelters.
Report Abuse. About 85% of all the bauxite mined worldwide is used to produce alumina for refining into aluminum metal. Another 10% produces alumina which is used in chemical, abrasive, and refractory products. The remaining 5% of bauxite is used to make abrasives, refractory materials, and aluminum compounds. Bauxite is mainly used for Aluminum...it is extracted from the bauxite ore using Electrolysis...it is lightweight and strong therefore could be used in airplane construction and foil to cover your food and cans etc lol he didn't ask for an essay he asked TWO main things its used for.
Bauxite, an aluminium ore, is the world's main source of aluminium. It consists mostly of the minerals gibbsite Al(OH) 3, boehmite γ-AlO(OH) and diaspore α-AlO(OH), mixed with the two iron oxides goethite and haematite, the clay mineral kaolinite and small amounts of anatase TiO 2.