Introduction. Urticaria – also known as hives, welts or nettle rash – is a raised, itchy rash that appears on the skin. The rash can be on just one part of the body or be spread across large areas. The affected area may change in appearance within 24 hours, and the rash will usually settle within a few days. 
Pregnancy hives are areas of your skin that are raised and red with a pale colored center that itch severely. Pregnancy hives are common in women of all stages of pregnancy due to the amazing amount of changes your body is going through. Cold hives are one form of hives that can easily turn deadly. People who have cold hives have an allergic reaction to cold temperatures that can cause them to lose consciousness and drown to death if the outbreak occurs while swimming.
A. Hives, also known as urticaria, are an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps, patches, or welts on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of allergies, or for other reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. Hives, also known as urticaria, are an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps, patches, or welts on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of allergies, or for other reasons. Poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac are plants that contain an irritating, oily sap called urushiol.
Finding the exact cause of your hives rash can be nearly impossible, however there are a few well known causes that include stress, food allergies, allergies to bug bites or stings, contact with animals or plants, medications, cold, heat, excessive perspiration and over exposure to the sun. Cold hives are one form of hives that can easily turn deadly. People who have cold hives have an allergic reaction to cold temperatures that can cause them to lose consciousness and drown to death if the outbreak occurs while swimming.
They are usually brought on by an allergic reaction to food, medicine, sunlight or some other allergen. Urticaria is also more commonly known as hives and is curable 95% of the time with the right urticaria treatment. Cold hives are one form of hives that can easily turn deadly. People who have cold hives have an allergic reaction to cold temperatures that can cause them to lose consciousness and drown to death if the outbreak occurs while swimming.
Urticaria is a Latin word that actually is the name of a plant called a stinging nettle. This plant when touched by humans, causes a stinging sensation at the point of contact. Urticaria are itchy raised, red welts on the surface of your skin that can appear anywhere on your body. They are usually brought on by an allergic reaction to food, medicine, sunlight or some other allergen. Urticaria is also more commonly known as hives and is curable 95% of the time with the right urticaria treatment. Urticaria can turn from annoying to deadly if your throat swells up so much that you can no longer breath. The swelling is actually not caused by urticaria, but by angioedema, which can sometimes accompany an urticaria outbreak.
A. A. A. Urticaria, also known as hives, is an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of the body's reaction to certain allergens, or for unknown reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. 
Hives, also known as urticaria, are itchy, raised welts that are found on the skin. They may be red and painful to touch. In most cases, hives are caused by an adverse reaction to medication or an allergic reaction to an irritant. The most noticeable symptom associated with hives is the welts that appear on the skin. Welts may be red but can also be the same color as your skin. They can be small and round, ring-shaped, or large and of random shape. Hives are usually itchy, and tend to appear in batches on the affected part of the body