TECHNICAL REPORT Core functions of microbiology reference laboratories for communicable diseases 5 The core functions of reference laboratories are shown in Table 1, in no particular order of preference or importance. For each core function, a short description and a practical example is given. 
1 Pharmaceutical microbiology: The study of microorganisms that are related to the production of antibiotics, enzymes, vitamins,vaccines, and other pharmaceutical products and that cause pharmaceutical contamination and spoil. 1 Agricultural microbiology: The study of agriculturally relevant microorganisms. 2  This field can be further classified into the following: 3  Plant microbiology and Plant pathology: The study of the interactions between microorganisms and plants and plant pathogens.
infectious. adjective in·fec·tious \-shəs\. Tweet. : capable of causing infection. : capable of being passed to someone else by germs that enter the body. : suffering from a disease that can be spread to other people by germs. 
(pathology) A disease that is infectious. Supplement. Infection is the process or the state wherein an infectious agent (such as pathogenic microorganisms, viruses, prions, viroids, nematodes and helminths) invade and multiple in the body tissues of the host. It could result to the manifestation of symptoms and disease when the immune response of the host is activated. It may also be palpable when the infection results in the competition in nutrients and metabolism. The invading microbes and viruses are also capable of producing pyrogens that can incite febrile reaction
bacteria, bacterium - (microbiology) single-celled or noncellular spherical or spiral or rod-shaped organisms lacking chlorophyll that reproduce by fission; important as pathogens and for biochemical properties; taxonomy is difficult; often considered to be plants. microbiology. the branch of biology that studies microorganisms, including bacteria, viruses, fungi, and pathogenic protozoa. — microbiologist, n.
virino - (microbiology) a hypothetical infectious particle thought to be the cause of scrapie and other degenerative diseases of the central nervous system; consists of nucleic acid in a protective coat of host cell proteins. microbiology. the branch of biology that studies microorganisms, including bacteria, viruses, fungi, and pathogenic protozoa. — microbiologist, n.
Infection. Definition. noun, plural: infections. (microbiology) Invasion and multiplication of an infectious agents in body tissues of the host and may lead to clinical symptoms or local cellular injury as a result of competition in metabolism, production of toxins, intracellular replication, or antigen antibody response. Infection is the process or the state wherein an infectious agent (such as pathogenic microorganisms, viruses, prions, viroids, nematodes and helminths) invade and multiple in the body tissues of the host.
Infection is the invasion of an organism's body tissues by disease-causing agents, their multiplication, and the reaction of host tissues to these organisms and the toxins they produce. Infectious disease, also known as transmissible disease or communicable disease, is illness resulting from an infection. The symptoms of an infection depend on the type of disease. Some signs of infection affect the whole body generally, such as fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, fevers, night sweats, chills, aches and pains.
1 Medical microbiology: The study of the pathogenic microbes and the role of microbes in human illness. 2  Includes the study of microbial pathogenesis and epidemiology and is related to the study of disease pathology and immunology. 1 Agricultural microbiology: The study of agriculturally relevant microorganisms. 2  This field can be further classified into the following: 3  Plant microbiology and Plant pathology: The study of the interactions between microorganisms and plants and plant pathogens.
The Microbiology Laboratory is one of many labs in the Department of Laboratory Medicine at Lahey Clinic. The main purpose of this laboratory is to assist in the diagnosis of infectious diseases. For instance, if an infection of the bladder is a possibility, the physician may order a urinalysis that looks at the cell types present in the urine, such as red and white blood cells, as well as a urine specimen for a culture to grow the organism that is causing the infection.