The recommended starting dose of Zoloft for children ages 6 to 12 with OCD is Zoloft 25 mg once daily, while the starting dose for adolescents ages 13 to 17 is Zoloft 50 mg once daily. Your child's healthcare provider may choose to increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease it if Zoloft side effects occur.
For the treatment of obsessive-compulsive disorder in the pediatric population, treatment should be initiated at a dose of 25 mg per day in children six to 12 years of age and 50 mg per day in children 13 to 17 years of age. Doses may be increased at one-week intervals to a total daily dose of 200 mg.
Dosage of Zoloft for Depression or Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder. The recommended starting Zoloft dose for people with depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is Zoloft 50 mg once a day.
The recommended dosage of sertraline depends on the disorder being treated. The initial recommended dosage for depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder is 50 mg daily. This may be increased at intervals of at least one week to the maximum recommended dosage of 20
While a relationship between dose and effect has not been established for major depressive disorder, OCD, panic disorder, PTSD or social anxiety disorder, patients were dosed in a range of 50-200 mg/day in the clinical trials demonstrating the effectiveness of ZOLOFT for the treatment of these indications.
For adults with depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), sertraline dosing guidelines generally call for a dose of 50 mg once daily.
The Zoloft dosage that doctors usually recommend for adults with depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder is 50 mg once a day.
Sertraline Dosing for Depression or Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD). The recommended starting sertraline dose for people with depression or obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is sertraline 50 mg once a day. The healthcare provider may choose to increase the sertraline dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur.