Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaija and its name origin or of any other name in our database. If you consider naming your baby Kaija we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Personal experiences with the name Kaija: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Kaija: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Kaija : | Edit. Kaija is a Finnish variant of Katherine, used as an independent name. It's popularity peak was in the later 1940s. Pronounced Kye-ya. It is considered to be old Swedish as well as modern-day Finnish. It can also be a term of endearment meaning precious daughter or sweet girl.
[ 2 syll. kai-ja, ka-ija ] The baby girl name Kaija is pronounced as K AY Yaa †. Kaija is mainly used in Hebrew and German. Its language of origin is Hebrew, Old Norse, and Native American-Hopi. Kaija is a variant form of the English, Hebrew, and Indian name Chaya in the Hebrew language. Kaija is also a variant form of the Polish, English, German, and Scandinavian name Kaja in the German language. Kaija is also a variant form of the English and Japanese name Kaya. Kaija is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kaija are: 1  Greek meaning: Pure. 2  Estonian meaning: Pure. 3  Finnish meaning: Pure. If you consider naming your baby Kaija we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The different meanings of the name Kaija are: The meaning of the name “Kaija” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you consider naming your baby Kaija we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Popularity of the Name Kaija. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Kaija is not popular in other countries all over the world. If you consider naming your baby Kaija we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Meaning: The Greek name Kaija means-a form of Kaia. 
Kaija is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kai-ja. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6792 in baby name popularity for girls with 18 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kaija in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kaija in Nautical Flags page.
Kaija /kai-ja/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Kaija is life, animal. Kaija is a version of Chava (Hebrew): can also mean living being. Kaija is also a derivative of Hava (Hebrew). Kreatif forms: Keaja, Krija. Kaija is an equally unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Ava (#5 the previous year) , Chaya (#692) , Eva (#82) and Eve (#460) are the prominent alternative forms of Kaija (not ranked) . Usage of these girl names was at its peak in 2014 (usage of 0.6903%)