Page 2 of 2 c/turvey/training/policy document definitions (at least annually). Written from staff/ policy user perspective. May be incorporated into a policy document “LOCAL PROCEDURE” Definition:- The same principles as organisation-wide procedure apply but local procedures impact on a specific part of the Trust. Characteristics:- Sets out “how” to implement a required standard of working
Page 1 of 2 c/turvey/training/policy document definitions POLICY DOCUMENT DEFINITIONS-DRAFT “STRATEGY” Definition:- A high-level plan designed to achieve a particular long term aim for the future success of the Trust e.g. the Human Resources Strategy, The Governance and Assurance Strategy. Written from staff/ policy user perspective. May be incorporated into a policy document “LOCAL PROCEDURE” Definition:- The same principles as organisation-wide procedure apply but local procedures impact on a specific part of the Trust.
A policy is a deliberate system of principles to guide decisions and achieve rational outcomes. A policy is a statement of intent, and is implemented as a procedure or protocol. 1 This information is often quite valuable when policies must be evaluated or used in ambiguous situations, just as the intent of a law can be useful to a court when deciding a case that involves that law. 2  Definitions, providing clear and unambiguous definitions for terms and concepts found in the policy document.
Zabbix. In business, a security policy is a document that states in writing how a company plans to protect the company's physical and information technology (IT) assets.
A privacy policy is a statement or a legal document (in privacy law) that discloses some or all of the ways a party gathers, uses, discloses, and manages a customer or client's data. 
Policy or policy study may also refer to the process of making important organizational decisions, including the identification of different alternatives such as programs or spending priorities, and choosing among them on the basis of the impact they will have. 1 This information is often quite valuable when policies must be evaluated or used in ambiguous situations, just as the intent of a law can be useful to a court when deciding a case that involves that law. 2  Definitions, providing clear and unambiguous definitions for terms and concepts found in the policy document.
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. policy (policies plural) 1 n-var A policy is a set of ideas or plans that is used as a basis for making decisions, especially in politics, economics, or business. ...plans which include changes in foreign policy and economic reforms., ...the UN's policy-making body. 
5 people found this helpful. If you have your license and buy a car, it is required by law to have an insurance policy in case you experience certain problems with the vehicle such as an accident or theft. 7
Policy differs from rules or law. While law can compel or prohibit behaviors (e.g. a law requiring the payment of taxes on income), policy merely guides actions toward those that are most likely to achieve a desired outcome. 1 This information is often quite valuable when policies must be evaluated or used in ambiguous situations, just as the intent of a law can be useful to a court when deciding a case that involves that law. 2  Definitions, providing clear and unambiguous definitions for terms and concepts found in the policy document.