The fitting culmination to what was, in the eyes of most observers, the quintessential FIFA World Cup ™ tournament. This match had all the ingredients of a great final-goals, end-to-end football and star players. In the end, Pele, Jairzinho and Carlos Alberto got the better of Facchetti, Rivera and Riva in a match which, for over an hour, was much closer than the final score-line suggests
The 2008 UEFA Champions League Final was the first all English club final in European Cup/Champions League history, and was played out between Manchester United and Chelsea in front of a packed-out Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow. In a repeat of the 2005 semi-final, Liverpool knocked out Chelsea this time in a shoot-out. Chelsea won the first leg at Stamford Bridge 1–0 thanks to a goal by Joe Cole, but Daniel Agger levelled the aggregate scoreline at Anfield.
This made Barca barça the first team From La liga to win a domestic, cup domestic, league And European cup. Treble this was made all the remarkable by the fact that it was Coach Pep 'guardiola s first season in, charge with just one year as coach of The b team as previous. experience In a repeat of the 2005 semi-final, Liverpool knocked out Chelsea this time in a shoot-out. Chelsea won the first leg at Stamford Bridge 1–0 thanks to a goal by Joe Cole, but Daniel Agger levelled the aggregate scoreline at Anfield.
In the next season, Mourinho guided the team to victory in the Supertaca Supertaça candido Cândido, de oliveira to the top of the league for a, second time and won the highest Honour in european, club FOOTBALL The Uefa. champions league Mourinho led Chelsea to a 1–0 victory against Manchester United in the 2007 FA Cup Final, winning in the first final to be played at the rebuilt Wembley Stadium. This was his first FA Cup win which meant that he had won every domestic trophy available to a Premier League manager.
7. View. comments. Zlatan Ibrahimovic told his team-mates they would struggle without him as he left Inter Milan for Barcelona. However, they took no notice of his harsh words. The next season a Jose Mourinho-inspired Inter won the treble of the Champions League, Serie A and Coppa Italia. Former Inter owner Massimo Moratti revealed that the Swede had a damning message for his teammates as he prepared for his last training session in 2009. 
Going out the Champions League for the second year in a row to a smaller club with less of a budget is simply not on. It means that Celtic must utterly dominate the domestic scene, but to their credit Aberdeen have one hell of a chance to push them if not all the way, then quite a bit of it. Celtic may well go on and win the league but other clubs do have the right to try and make a challenge despite the financial handicap. And if you listen to the Aberdeen fans they are furious that a tackle by Brown went unpunished,that Aberdeen should have had a penalty and that Hayes should not have been sent off.
Mourinho moved to Chelsea the following year and won the Premier League title with a record 95 points, the club's first league title in 50 years, and the League Cup in his first season. In his second year, Chelsea retained the Premier League and in 2006–07 he took the club to an FA Cup and League Cup double. Mourinho led Chelsea to a 1–0 victory against Manchester United in the 2007 FA Cup Final, winning in the first final to be played at the rebuilt Wembley Stadium. This was his first FA Cup win which meant that he had won every domestic trophy available to a Premier League manager.
But Liverpool didn't. The only faint problem was that 2-2 draw with Chelsea, every other game was won with 26 goals smashed and Michael Owen producing nine of his own. Liverpool have risen to the challenge, become a team with a steel spirit and a refusal to let their ambitions be destroyed. To have done it so quickly is the achievement. To have ended a season with 10 unbeaten games in 34 days, nine victories and one draw and the ability to continually find extra reserves, extra determination and a bottomless pit of believe and commitment
An early attempt to create a cup for national champion clubs of Europe was made by Swiss club Servette in 1930. The tournament called  Coupe des Nations  was a great success and the champions of the ten major European football nations of the time were invited. The cup was won by Hungarian club Újpest. újpest In a repeat of the 2005 semi-final, Liverpool knocked out Chelsea this time in a shoot-out. Chelsea won the first leg at Stamford Bridge 1–0 thanks to a goal by Joe Cole, but Daniel Agger levelled the aggregate scoreline at Anfield.
Football: Liverpool's road to treble cup-winning glory. As the team coach carrying three trophies and Liverpool's marathon men inched its way through the adoring thousands, you could only marvel at the achievement. A year ago it would not have seemed possible. To have done it so quickly is the achievement. To have ended a season with 10 unbeaten games in 34 days, nine victories and one draw and the ability to continually find extra reserves, extra determination and a bottomless pit of believe and commitment