Q: Who is Greece’s largest creditor? A: The European Financial Stability Facility, the euro area’s original crisis-fighting fund, which has lent the country 141.8 billion euros, and hence owns about 45 percent of its debt.
Greece owes a total of 307 billion euros (or 177% of its GDP) broken down as follows: 1  European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF): € 141.8 billion or 46.2% of total Greek debt.
Greece owes the ECB and other eurozone central banks about 27 billion euros. The bank has already said it cannot offer any relief -- simply because it would be illegal. The clock is ticking on the ECB debt, with 6.7 billion euros due by August. IMF. The IMF holds 32 billion euros of Greek debt.
The data comes from the IMF and does not include household or corporate debt. Additionally, the graph shows the debt to GDP ratio for each country based on the shade of the piece. All debt was converted to USD for the graph.
1 European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF): € 141.8 billion or 46.2% of total Greek debt. 2  Low interest rate of 1.5% on average. 3  Bilateral Loans: € 52.9 billion or 17.2% of total Greek debt. 4  France is owed € 11 billion and Germany € 15 billion.
Comment on this Comment on this article. Eurozone finance ministers have reached a partial agreement on the second Greek bailout and a restructuring of the country’s debt, but they postponed a final decision to next week.
We are wondering who holds the Greek debt. We did a quick research and gathered the following information from reliable sources. Greece has around €270 Billion in sovereign debt. On top of this Greek banks also owe money to mostly European banks.
As talk grows of Greece restructuring its debt, it is important to take a look at who really holds Greek debt and who will be affected by a potential restructuring.
Most Greek debt is held by other eurozone countries. Around 53 billion euros was loaned through bilateral agreements, according to researchers at Open Europe. The Greek government would have to renegotiate these with each country individually.