Follow the steps below to drag-and-drop your iPhone photos to your Android phone: 1  Connect your iPhone to your PC via USB cable. 2  Do the same for your Android phone. 3  On your Windows PC, open My Computer. 4  You should be able to see two new drives or entries under Portable Devices. Drag and Drop. The easiest way to transfer your photos is to simply drag-and-drop the images from the iPhone’s default photo directory/folder to Android’s image folder. For this method, you will need a Windows PC and the USB cables for both your iPhone and
Tips. 1  Many apps will help you to transfer photos between your computer and your mobile over Wi-Fi. 2  If you are just trying to transfer a few pictures, emailing them to yourself may take less time and hassle. 3  You can also transfer images from computer to mobile using Bluetooth. 1. Connect your BlackBerry to your computer. The BlackBerry connects using a USB cable. If you're using Windows, then your PC may have to install your BlackBerry device.
1 On your phone open the photo you wish to transfer. 2  Under the options menu click “Send.”. 3  Choose send using “Bluetooth.” The phone will then send the photo wirelessly to your PC. 4  You will then see a notification from the PC and the picture will appear in your Pictures folder. 1 This allows your PC and phone to transfer files to each other. 2  On your phone open the photo you wish to transfer. 3  Under the options menu click “Send.”. 4
E-mail. First try using e-mail 1 to transfer photos from your phone to your PC since it is probably the most widely available option. 1  To begin, create a new contact that is your e-mail address. ( 2 Your phone manual will tell you how to create a new contact.). 3  Next, open the photo you wish to transfer. 1 This allows your PC and phone to transfer files to each other. 2  On your phone open the photo you wish to transfer. 3  Under the options menu click “Send.”. 4  Choose send using “Bluetooth.” The phone will then send the photo wirelessly to your PC.
Open your pictures. Open the folders containing pictures you want to transfer to your phone. Drag and drop or copy and paste images from your computer into the BlackBerry's Pictures folder. 1. Connect your BlackBerry to your computer. The BlackBerry connects using a USB cable. If you're using Windows, then your PC may have to install your BlackBerry device.
1 On your phone open the photo you wish to transfer. 2  Under the options menu click “Send.”. 3  Choose send using “Bluetooth.” The phone will then send the photo wirelessly to your PC. 4  You will then see a notification from the PC and the picture will appear in your Pictures folder. 1 Choose how you want to send it: “New picture message” or “Bluetooth.”. 2  Add the contact that has your e-mail address and press “OK” or “Send.”. 3  Open your e-mail program on your PC and check the in box. 4  You should have an e-mail from your phone service with a photo attachment.
First try using e-mail 1 to transfer photos from your phone to your PC since it is probably the most widely available option. 1  To begin, create a new contact that is your e-mail address. ( 2 Your phone manual will tell you how to create a new contact.). 3  Next, open the photo you wish to transfer. 1 Choose how you want to send it: “New picture message” or “Bluetooth.”. 2  Add the contact that has your e-mail address and press “OK” or “Send.”. 3  Open your e-mail program on your PC and check the in box. 4  You should have an e-mail from your phone service with a photo attachment.
Method 3 of 3: Transfer Images from a Computer to a BlackBerry. 1. Connect your BlackBerry to your computer. The BlackBerry connects using a USB cable. If you're using Windows, then your PC may have to install your BlackBerry device.
It connects via the USB port. 5. Transfer the pictures to your computer. You can look for the memory card reader as a removable disk in Finder or My Computer. 1  If you're on a Mac, open iPhoto, go to and select the photos you wish to import within the memory card. 3. Open up iTunes, or open the phone's files the same way you would open a flash drive. 1  If you use iTunes to manage files on your phone, simply press the drop arrow next to your phone on the left-hand sidebar. 2  Double-click photos, and drag what you want onto your desktop or into a new folder.
You can transfer photos from your camera and cell phone to your PC via: Bluetooth ®. Memory card. E-mail. USB cable. Camera dock. Depending on your camera, phone and PC features, you may or may not have all these choices. 1 Choose how you want to send it: “New picture message” or “Bluetooth.”. 2  Add the contact that has your e-mail address and press “OK” or “Send.”. 3  Open your e-mail program on your PC and check the in box. 4  You should have an e-mail from your phone service with a photo attachment.