You will be surprised at the varying length of naps your baby takes from 20 minutes to three hours throughout the day. Some babies sleep more, others sleep less, and daily circumstances will affect how much your baby sleeps as well. As a result, many parents ask their pediatrician for some guidelines as to how long their baby should be sleeping each and every day. The following is an overview of what is considered a normal sleeping schedule for infants, 6-9 month old babies, and toddlers.
As long as your baby is getting at least 13 hours of sleep per day combined with all naps and nighttime sleep then you have nothing to worry about. Most infants just home from the hospital will sleep a minimum of 14 hours every day and a maximum of 18, more or less. As a result, many parents ask their pediatrician for some guidelines as to how long their baby should be sleeping each and every day. The following is an overview of what is considered a normal sleeping schedule for infants, 6-9 month old babies, and toddlers.
In general, babies of all ages should sleep a minimum of 13 hours per day and a maximum of 18 hours per day, of course depending on how old the baby is. These sleeping hours include all nighttime rest as well as daytime naps. As a result, many parents ask their pediatrician for some guidelines as to how long their baby should be sleeping each and every day. The following is an overview of what is considered a normal sleeping schedule for infants, 6-9 month old babies, and toddlers.
Taking a nap, we've seen time and again, is like rebooting your brain. But napping may be as much of an art as it is a science. The Wall Street Journal offers recommendations for planning your perfect nap, including how long to nap and when. The sleep experts in the article say a 10-to-20-minute power nap gives you the best bang for your buck, but depending on what you want the nap to do for you, other durations might be ideal: For a quick boost of alertness, experts say a 10-to-20-minute power nap is adequate for getting back to work in a pinch
It is a 2 week self-experiment. 1. Guess how much sleep would be adequate-for most adults it would be 8 hours. 2. For a week (7 full days), set your alarm clock for the same time each day. 3. Go to bed at an hour that would let you get the number of hours you think you need. 4. Record when you go to bed and when you wake up. 5. How Much Sleep You Are Supposed to Get. As long as you are not tired, you are getting enough sleep! If you are tired, you may not be getting enough sleep! You might be suffering from sleep deprivation! That's the short answer.
The experts unanimously agree on the average child's need to nap and on a napping schedule: Newborns sleep as much and as long as they need to. Between 4 and 12 months, babies move to two naps a day, one in the morning and one in the afternoon, each ranging from 20 minutes to three hours. In their second year, most toddlers go down for one two-hour nap in the middle of the day, and by their third birthdays, some will have given up naps entirely. The best time for naps is the early afternoon. Don't let your child nap past 4 p.m., or she'll have problems going to sleep at bedtime. At least three hours should elapse between the end of a nap and bedtime. Make naptimes consistent.
10 month old’s sleep. At this age, most 10 month olds can sleep through the night, without a feeding, and take two naps for a total of 2 to 2 1/2 hours per day plus 11-12 hours at night. A very small percentage transition to one nap as early as 10 months, but not many, so assume 2 naps unless you are certain. Most babies get very very overtired and sleep can spiral out of control, so I always recommend keeping two naps as long as possible as the average age to transition to one nap is 15-18 months
2. Naps provide different benefits depending on how long they are. A short nap of even 20 minutes will enhance alertness and concentration, mood and coordination. A nap of 90 minutes will get you into slow wave and REM sleep, which enhances creativity. Let's fall asleep. (The musical portion of this blog is over; thanks for indulging.) But seriously: we've talked about the whys of taking naps on the blog before -- they improve mood, creativity, memory function, heart health, and so much else -- but never, to my knowledge, have we discussed how to take a nap.
The third nap is almost always a short 30-45 minute cat nap. Your 7 month old should be napping a total of 2-3 hours per day plus sleeping 11-12 hours at night. If you’re having trouble with naps, you might be interested in helping your baby nap. All babies vary, but here are some rough schedules you can use to make your own for your unique baby. 
3. Try not to sleep longer than 45 minutes but less than 90 minutes; then you'll wake up in the middle of a slow-wave cycle, and be groggy. I used to hate taking naps during the day for just this reason -- I would always wake up in a fog. My problem was I hadn't yet perfected the art of the 20-minute catnap. Let's fall asleep. (The musical portion of this blog is over; thanks for indulging.) But seriously: we've talked about the whys of taking naps on the blog before -- they improve mood, creativity, memory function, heart health, and so much else -- but never, to my knowledge, have we discussed how to take a nap.