Carbon fiber–reinforced polymer, carbon fiber–reinforced plastic or carbon fiber–reinforced thermoplastic (CFRP, CRP, CFRTP or often simply carbon fiber, or even carbon), is an extremely strong and light fiber-reinforced plastic which contains carbon fibers. 
The properties of carbon fibers, such as high stiffness, high tensile strength, low weight, high chemical resistance, high temperature tolerance and low thermal expansion, make them very popular in aerospace, civil engineering, military, and motorsports, along with other competition sports. Carbon fiber is most notably used to reinforce composite materials, particularly the class of materials known as carbon fiber or graphite reinforced polymers. Non-polymer materials can also be used as the matrix for carbon fibers.
Carbon fibers are strong, waterproof and light weight.   Compared to common metals carbon fibers can be expensive but it lasts for a long time.   Carbon fibers do not … corrode and sheets of it can be easily installed on the cars.  Carbon Fibre is a light and sturdy material that is strong and is light in weight.
9. Carbon fiber -- sometimes known as graphite fiber -- is a strong, stiff, lightweight material that has the potential to replace steel and is popularly used in specialized, high-performance products like aircrafts, racecars and sporting equipment. 8. Carbon fiber was first invented near Cleveland, Ohio, in 1958. The most common carbon fiber precursor -- the raw material used to make carbon fibers -- is polyacrylonitrile (or PAN), accounting for more than 90 percent of all carbon fiber production. Other precursors options include a common plastic and a wood byproduct. 4.
Carbon fibers are strong, waterproof and light weight.   Compared to common metals carbon fibers can be expensive but it lasts for a long time.   Carbon fibers do not … corrode and sheets of it can be easily installed on the cars.  Carbon Fibre is a light and sturdy material that is strong and is light in weight.
The raw material used to make carbon fiber is called the precursor. About 90% of the carbon fibers produced are made from polyacrylonitrile (PAN). The remaining 10% are made from rayon or petroleum pitch. All of these materials are organic polymers, characterized by long strings of molecules bound together by carbon atoms.
Carbon fiber is used in a lot of applications, including automotive body panels, bicycle frames and wheels, aircraft, boats, rifle barrels, rifle receivers, and many other uses. Compared to common metals carbon fibers can be expensive but it lasts for a long time.   Carbon fibers do not … corrode and sheets of it can be easily installed on the cars.  Carbon Fibre is a light and sturdy material that is strong and is light in weight.
Carbon fiber is, exactly what it sounds like – fiber made of carbon. But, these fibers are only a base. What is commonly referred to as carbon fiber is a material consisting of very thin filaments of carbon atoms. When bound together with plastic polymer resin by heat, pressure or in a vacuum a composite material is formed that is both strong and lightweight. 
A carbon fiber is a long, thin strand of material about 0.0002-0.0004 in (0.005-0.010 mm) in diameter and composed mostly of carbon atoms. The carbon atoms are bonded together in microscopic crystals that are more or less aligned parallel to the long axis of the fiber. The crystal alignment makes the fiber incredibly strong for its size. Several thousand carbon fibers are twisted together to form a yarn, which may be used by itself or woven into a fabric. The yarn or fabric is combined with epoxy and wound or molded into shape to form various composite materials.