If this is the tooth, it's one of the most difficult to extract (because it has 3 roots!). This will increase the amount of time under anesthesia, hence increase the cost of the extraction (in most cases). The extraction of such a tooth could cost you anwhere from $150 - $600. It depends on several factors. 1.
1 Surgical extraction of a tooth can cost $150-$650 or more, depending on the type of anesthesia used (IV sedation typically costs $250-$500 more than local anesthesia), the local cost of living, whether the appointment is on an emergency basis and the type of extraction. My insurance covered extraction with co-pay of 28 dollars per tooth. (15 cracked, 16 was impacted wisdom tooth in the way). $56 for extraction and $700 for bone graft and and covering membrane.
Your veterinarian may recommend a tooth extraction if your dog has ongoing problems with one or more teeth. The cost of this procedure may vary in your area, so do some research before your dog has his tooth extracted. Extraction is not always the first course of treatment your veterinarian may choose for your dog. In some cases, though, extraction cannot be avoided. Let’s look at some of the cost considerations that go into the extraction procedure: Depending on the part of the country in which you live and the amount of care your dog will require, a tooth extraction can cost anywhere between $150 and $600.
1 On average, depending on the severity of the tooth and problem, the costs will vary anywhere from $75 to as much as $600. 2  The cost of your dog tooth extraction includes the materials and instruments to be used, the vet’s professional fee and the procedure itself. 1 Also, you will need antibiotics to prevent the chance of infection. 2  After the tooth or teeth have been removed, most vets may want to perform a cleaning; this can cost $100 to $200. 3  For a few weeks after the surgery, your dog may need a special type of dog food that is easy on the teeth and gums.
Mum called the vet and he said to pull it, it would be about 60-70 or so depending on the tooth. And a $35 walk in fee (which I find odd because we were never charged a walk in fee all the times we've brought our dogs there). This will increase the amount of time under anesthesia, hence increase the cost of the extraction (in most cases). The extraction of such a tooth could cost you anwhere from $150 - $600. It depends on several factors. 1.
1 According to one comment post from Dogster.com, the extraction of a tooth can cost around $150 to $600. 2  On average, depending on the severity of the tooth and problem, the costs will vary anywhere from $75 to as much as $600. 1 Also, you will need antibiotics to prevent the chance of infection. 2  After the tooth or teeth have been removed, most vets may want to perform a cleaning; this can cost $100 to $200. 3  For a few weeks after the surgery, your dog may need a special type of dog food that is easy on the teeth and gums.