EDWARD JENNER-VACCINE INVENTOR. In the 1790s Edward Jenner invented vaccination. And he did it by observing that milk maids regular contact with cowpox, which was a common virus that was seen in the cattle industry, that those people who were exposed to those types of mild viruses rarely got severe cases of smallpox.
The story of vaccines did not begin with the first vaccine–Edward Jenner’s use of material from cowpox pustules to provide protection against smallpox. Rather, it begins with the long history of infectious disease in humans, and in particular, with early uses of smallpox material to provide immunity to that disease. 
Smallpox vaccine, the first successful vaccine to be developed, was introduced by Edward Jenner in 1798. He followed up his observation that milkmaids who had previously caught cowpox did not later catch smallpox by showing that inoculated cowpox protected against inoculated smallpox. Another early account was Dr John Fewster 's 1765 paper on Cowpox and its ability to prevent smallpox read to the London Medical Society. He reported that variolation induced no reaction in persons who had had cowpox. Fewster was a contemporary and friend of Jenner.
Initially, the terms vaccine / vaccination referred only to smallpox, but in 1881 Louis Pasteur proposed that to honour Jenner the terms be widened to cover the new protective inoculations being introduced. Another early account was Dr John Fewster 's 1765 paper on Cowpox and its ability to prevent smallpox read to the London Medical Society. He reported that variolation induced no reaction in persons who had had cowpox. Fewster was a contemporary and friend of Jenner.
Edward Jenner, an English physician, discovered the smallpox vaccine in 1796. He came upon this discovery by noticing that milkmaids who had the cowpox virus, a less threateni … ng disease, did not catch the dangerous smallpox. Jenner then infected an 8-year-old boy with the cowpox. After six weeks, he exposed the boy to the smallpox disease and the boy did not show any smallpox related symptoms. Sone fun facts: -Jenner coined the term 'vaccine': 'vaca' means cow in Latin. -Before the vaccine, the death rate of the disease was up to 35%.
Jenner then infected an 8-year-old boy with the cowpox. After six weeks, he exposed the boy to the smallpox disease and the boy did not show any smallpox related symptoms. Sone fun facts: -Jenner coined the term 'vaccine': 'vaca' means cow in Latin. -Before the vaccine, the death rate of the disease was up to 35%. Dr Edward Jenner discovered the vaccine in 1796 and published his findings in 1798. Edward Jenner invented the vaccine for small pox in 1798. He  prepared the vaccine f … rom the cow pox virus.
I shall never have smallpox for I have had cowpox. I shall never have an ugly pockmarked face.. ... the annihilation of the smallpox, the most dreadful scourge of the human species, must be the final result .... It is hard to determine who invented vaccination. It may have been used in ancient times in China, India or Persia. But we do know that Edward Jenner was the first person which the first recorded vaccination in the western world
Publication of the Inquiry and the subsequent energetic promulgation by Jenner of the idea of vaccination with a virus other than variola virus constituted a watershed in the control of smallpox for which he, more than anyone else deserves the credit. Another early account was Dr John Fewster 's 1765 paper on Cowpox and its ability to prevent smallpox read to the London Medical Society. He reported that variolation induced no reaction in persons who had had cowpox. Fewster was a contemporary and friend of Jenner.
Edward Jenner, an English physician, discovered the smallpox vaccine in 1796. He came upon this discovery by noticing that milkmaids who had the cowpox virus, a less threateni … ng disease, did not catch the dangerous smallpox. Dr Edward Jenner discovered the vaccine in 1796 and published his findings in 1798. Edward Jenner invented the vaccine for small pox in 1798. He  prepared the vaccine f … rom the cow pox virus.