What made all of this of interest to us was how deeply connected to our identities the online is. The rise of all this social phenomena and our crazy relationship with the devices we use to connect to the Internet is synonymous with our sense of belonging and a strange sense of security. At the same time, it’s all incredibly new. Online communities, digital entertainment, gaming, use of social media, how we spread and share news, entertainment, we’re kind of just learning on the fly and that not only makes Internet Culture diverse but also kind of fragile.
A world of no boundaries Popular culture resists the boundaries of definition. It can mean something different to every person. It is mass media, entertainment and diversions. It is heroes, icons, rituals, psychology and religion. It is a way of life, the voice of a people.2 It doesn't have to do with the number of people involved, nor does it deal with quality. It is a lifesyle of a group of people, large or small. The Internet makes that group incredibly large. Pop culture is no longer limited to one place.
This cyberculture may be purely an online culture or it may span both virtual and physical worlds. This is to say, that cyberculture is a culture endemic to online communities; it is not just the culture that results from computer use, but culture that is directly mediated by the computer. Cyberculture is a wide social and cultural movement closely linked to advanced information science and information technology, their emergence, development and rise to social and cultural prominence between the 1960s and the 1990s.
The ethnography of cyberspace is an important aspect of cyberculture that does not reflect a single unified culture. It is not a monolithic or placeless 'cyberspace'; rather, it is numerous new technologies and capabilities, used by diverse people, in diverse real-world locations.. Cyberculture is a wide social and cultural movement closely linked to advanced information science and information technology, their emergence, development and rise to social and cultural prominence between the 1960s and the 1990s.
The Internet is the global system of interconnected computer networks that use the Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP) to link billions of devices worldwide. It began in California in 1969 and began connecting to networks on other continents in 1988. Many people use the terms Internet and World Wide Web, or just the Web, interchangeably, but the two terms are not synonymous. The World Wide Web is the primary application that billions of people use on the Internet, and it has changed their lives immeasurably.
What exactly is Internet Culture? The world is so used to thinking of the Internet as “Tech” but we classify it as “a society mediated by computer screens”. Internet Culture really isn’t so hard to define if you understand that we breed a unique culture online amongst those of us who are connected to the Internet. In this digital space we’ve created social constructs that are influenced by information sharing, creation and freedom of thought. At the same time, it’s all incredibly new. Online communities, digital entertainment, gaming, use of social media, how we spread and share news, entertainment, we’re kind of just learning on the fly and that not only makes Internet Culture diverse but also kind of fragile.
Cyberculture or computer culture is the culture that has emerged, or is emerging, from the use of computer networks for communication, entertainment, and business. Cyberculture is a wide social and cultural movement closely linked to advanced information science and information technology, their emergence, development and rise to social and cultural prominence between the 1960s and the 1990s.
It is a network of networks (internet is short for internetworking) that consists of millions of private, public, academic, business, and government networks of local to global scope, linked by a broad array of electronic, wireless, and optical networking technologies. Many people use the terms Internet and World Wide Web, or just the Web, interchangeably, but the two terms are not synonymous. The World Wide Web is the primary application that billions of people use on the Internet, and it has changed their lives immeasurably.
Or maybe it has to do with the ease of distribution. Popular culture is often distributed by the media, but more often than not, spreads through word-of-mouth, or in the Internet's case, word-of-email. A hot site can be forwarded or mentioned to hundreds of people with a simple mouse click. It is a way of life, the voice of a people.2 It doesn't have to do with the number of people involved, nor does it deal with quality. It is a lifesyle of a group of people, large or small. The Internet makes that group incredibly large. Pop culture is no longer limited to one place.