Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. People with pneumonia usually complain of coughing, mucus production, fever, shortness of breath, and/or chest pain. 1  The body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting the lungs. 2  In bacterial pneumonia, bacteria reproduce in the lungs, while the body tries to fight off the infection. 1 Inflammation is the body's attempt to destroy infection, and causes many of the other symptoms of bacterial pneumonia, including fever and chest pain. 2  Pneumonia can be very serious, because it directly interferes with the body's ability to exchange carbon dioxide and oxygen.
Bacterial Pneumonia Causes. 1  Most pneumonia is caused by bacteria or a virus. 2  Pneumonia from any cause can occur at any age, but people in certain age groups are at higher risk for certain types of pneumonia. 1 The most common way you catch pneumonia is to breathe infected air droplets from someone who has pneumonia. 2  Another cause is an improperly cleaned air conditioner. 3  Yet another source of infection in your lungs is spread by an infection from somewhere else in your body, such as your kidney.
Pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah) is an infection in one or both of the lungs. Many germs—such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi—can cause pneumonia. The infection inflames your lungs' air sacs, which are called alveoli (al-VEE-uhl-eye). 
Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. People with pneumonia often complain about coughing, fever, shaking chills, and shortness of breath. 1  Your body's immune system usually keeps bacteria from infecting your lungs. 2  In pneumonia, bacteria reproduce in your lungs, while your body tries to fight off the infection. 1 The most common way you catch pneumonia is to breathe infected air droplets from someone who has pneumonia. 2  Another cause is an improperly cleaned air conditioner. 3  Yet another source of infection in your lungs is spread by an infection from somewhere else in your body, such as your kidney.
Pneumonia is an inflammatory condition of the lung affecting primarily the microscopic air sacs known as alveoli. It is usually caused by infection with viruses or bacteria and less commonly other microorganisms, certain drugs and other conditions such as autoimmune diseases. Pneumonia presumed to be bacterial is treated with antibiotics. If the pneumonia is severe, the affected person is generally hospitalized. Pneumonia affects approximately 450 million people globally per year (7% of the population) and results in about 4 million deaths.
Pneumonia is an infection in one or both of your lungs. Many germs, such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi, can cause pneumonia. Pneumonia is not a single disease. It can have more than 30 different causes. Understanding the cause of pneumonia is important because pneumonia treatment depends on its cause. 5 Facts You Should Know about Pneumonia. Pneumonia is a common lung infection caused by bacteria, a virus or fungi. It is often spread via coughing, sneezing, or even breathing, and those who don't exhibit symptoms can also spread the illness.
Bacterial pneumonia is classified based on where you acquire it—outside or inside a hospital. An infection that occurs in a healthcare setting is usually more serious because you are already sick. Also, this type of infection is often caused by more dangerous bacteria. The most common symptoms of bacterial pneumonia are: 1  cough with yellow, green, or blood-tinged mucus. 2  chest pain that worsens when coughing or breathing. 3  sudden onset of chills. 4  fever of 102 degrees or above (lower than 102 in older persons). 5  headache. 6  muscle pain. 7  breathlessness or rapid breathing. 8  lethargy.
Overview. Bacterial pneumonia is an infection in one or both lungs. The bacteria cause the lung’s air sacs (alveoli) to become inflamed and engorged with pus, fluid, and cellular debris. This often impairs the body’s ability to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide. The most common symptoms of bacterial pneumonia are: 1  cough with yellow, green, or blood-tinged mucus. 2  chest pain that worsens when coughing or breathing. 3  sudden onset of chills. 4  fever of 102 degrees or above (lower than 102 in older persons). 5  headache. 6  muscle pain. 7  breathlessness or rapid breathing. 8  lethargy.
Pneumonia is an infection in one or both lungs. The infection may be caused by fungi, bacteria, or viruses. Pneumonia causes inflammation in your lung’s air sacs, also referred to as alveoli. The alveoli fill with fluid or pus, making it difficult to breathe
Pneumonia (nu-MO-ne-ah) is an infection in one or both of the lungs. Many germs—such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi—can cause pneumonia. The infection inflames your lungs' air sacs, which are called alveoli (al-VEE-uhl-eye). 