What to know about 'Divergent' – The idea is the brainchild of Veronica Roth, who wrote Divergent and its sequels, Insurgent and Allegiant.. Roth, 25, released the first book in the series in spring 2011.
(Or some other kind of Veronica Roth is from a Chicago suburb. She studied creative writing at Northwestern University, and wrote DIVERGENT (Katherine Tegen Books, May 2011) and INSURGENT (May 2012). The third and final book in The Divergent Trilogy, ALLEGIANT, will come out on October 22, 2013.
The Divergent trilogy (also known as The Divergent Series) is a series of three young adult dystopian/science-fiction books by Veronica Roth and published by Katherine Tegen Books. It is set in the future of a dystopian Chicago.
Roth wrote Divergent while working on a Creative Writing degree at Northwestern University, and it was quickly purchased for publication alongside the subsequent books in the trilogy (completed in October 2013).
Roth wrote Divergent while working on a creative writing degree at Northwestern University, and it was quickly purchased for publication. Divergent is the first book in a trilogy that was completed in October 2013. Roth's first book of short fiction set in the Divergent universe is forthcoming July 2014: Four: A Divergent Collection, edited by Katherine Tegen.
This first book in Veronica Roth's #1 New York Times bestselling Divergent trilogy is the novel the inspired the major motion picture starring Shailene Woodley, Theo James, and Kate Winslet. This dystopian series set in a futuristic Chicago has captured the hearts of. 1  Checkmark First In Series NOOK Books Shop Now.
Divergent is the debut novel of American novelist Veronica Roth, published by HarperCollins Children's Books in 2011.
The Divergent trilogy is a series of young adult science fiction adventure novels by Veronica Roth set in a post-apocalyptic dystopian Chicago.
Divergent is the debut novel of American novelist Veronica Roth, published by HarperCollins Children's Books in 2011. It is a young-adult dystopian novel set in the so-called Divergent Universe, that features a post-apocalyptic version of Chicago.