All you need is an appropriate incubator with proper temperature and humidity settings. You can even build a duck egg incubator at home. Any enclosed place or box that can maintain heat and humidity can be used as an incubator for hatching duck eggs. Otherwise, purchase an incubator that suits your hatching needs.
We guarantee that at least 80% of the eggs you purchase will be alive at the first candling (after about 7 days of incubation). If you find your fertility is less than 80%, and would like a refund, you need to contact us. . No refunds are possible after that date.
Last year, we had four ducks to hatch. They went to live with one of my students grandparents at their wonderful farm with a big pond. Now, for the first time in the 8 years I have hatched eggs, we have second generation eggs! I have them at home incubating now and should have ducklings in a week or two!!! Thanks.
Hence, set the eggs to hatch within 1-3 days after they are laid. There are some basic requirements that have to be met when hatching duck eggs in an incubator. The hatching of duck eggs requires right temperature and humidity levels. Start the incubator one or two days prior to setting the hatching eggs. Keep the temperature at 99 to 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit and humidity at 86% during the initial 25 days and then reduce temperature to 98.5 degrees Fahrenheit and increase the humidity to 94% for the next 3 days.
Mallard ducks are amazing animals. And sometimes you want to help them hatch. It's important to not remove wild ducks eggs from any nest without the proper cause; however, if the mother is confirmed missing for over a period of 48 hours, you may be able to help.
Get ready for hatching. The eggs should begin to hatch at day 28. After hatching the chicks will need to dry off at least 75% of the way in the incubator before you move them to the brooder. Your brooder should be an area large enough to accommodate your ducklings, giving them at least 6 sq. in. per duckling.
Besides ducklings, we also sell duck hatching eggs for those of you that want to incubate and hatch your own ducklings at home or at school. If your goal is only to get ducklings, it is better to order the ducklings.
Some Tips for Incubation. Be careful when you are placing the duck eggs into the incubator, making sure that you scrupulously inspect each egg before setting it on the tray. If an egg is dirty, cracked or too large or small, do not place it in the incubator.
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used.