Hebrew Meaning: The name Jane is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jane is: Gift from God. American Meaning: The name Jane is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jane is: Gift from God. English Meaning: The name Jane is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jane is: Jehovah has been gracious. A Feminine form of John.. From the Old French Jehane. Famous Bearers: British novelist Jane Austen (1775-1817) and American actress Jayne Mansfield
Jane has its origins in the Hebrew language and it is used largely in English. The meaning of Jane is 'Yahweh is gracious, Yahweh is merciful'. It is a biblical name derived from yahweh 'name of God ' ; chanan which means 'to be gracious '. The name Johanna was borne by a follower of Jesus in the Bible, who was also the wife of King Herod Antipas' steward. The name Jane was adopted by English speakers in the 16th century, popularized by the fame of Jane Shore (1445-1527), the mistress of King Edward IV who became the subject of numerous plays and ballads. The name was also made famous by Lady Jane Grey (1537-1554), the ill-fated queen who reigned for only nine days.
Jane is a form of the English and Scottish Jean in the English language. Jane is also a form of the English Joan. Jane is the feminine form of the English and Hebrew John. The name Jane was adopted by English speakers in the 16th century, popularized by the fame of Jane Shore (1445-1527), the mistress of King Edward IV who became the subject of numerous plays and ballads. The name was also made famous by Lady Jane Grey (1537-1554), the ill-fated queen who reigned for only nine days.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jane and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jane and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The name Jane is of Hebrew origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Origin of JANE. from the name Jane. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
Meaning of Jane. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Jane means-Gift from God.. Other origins for the name Jane include-Hebrew, English, English.The name Jane is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Gift from God. Origin-Hebrew. Alternate Origins-English English. Expression num - 3
Jane /jane/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced jayn. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jane is God is gracious. Originally a feminine form of John. A longtime popular girl's name. It is not a royal name, but has been borne by the 16th century's Lady Jane Grey who was unwillingly proclaimed queen. It was influenced by the 19th-century use as the name of the central character in Charlotte Bront 's Jane Eyre
English cognate of the French Jehanne and Jeanne, which are feminine forms of Jean, a cognate of John (God is gracious). Jane, a perennially popular name, was the name of the central character in Charlotte Bronte'brontë S Jane (eyre). 1847 From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman 
Jane is a form of the name John. The name John, its variants and various language forms are all ultimately of Hebrew origin. The name John, its variants and various language forms are all ultimately of Hebrew origin. The name John itself is the English form of the Latin name Iohannes which in turn is. 