In the first year after getting vaccinated, whooping cough vaccines for adolescents and adults (called Tdap) protect about 7 out of 10 people who receive them. There is a decrease in effectiveness in each following year. About 7 out of 10 children are fully protected 5 years after getting their last dose of DTaP. In general, childhood whooping cough vaccines (called DTaP) are effective for 8 or 9 out of 10 children
Pertussis, also known as whooping cough or 100-day cough, is a highly contagious bacterial disease. Initially, symptoms are usually similar to those of the common cold with a runny nose, fever, and mild cough. This is then followed by weeks of severe coughing fits. 
Whooping cough vaccines are effective, but do not last as long as we would like; however, they are still the best way to protect against whooping cough and its complications. Getting whooping cough or a whooping cough vaccine (as a child or an adult) does not protect you for a lifetime. About 7 out of 10 children are fully protected 5 years after getting their last dose of DTaP. In general, childhood whooping cough vaccines (called DTaP) are effective for 8 or 9 out of 10 children who receive them.
A: Yes. Pertussis, or whooping cough, can be prevented with vaccines. Before pertussis vaccines became widely available in the 1940s, about 200,000 children got sick with it each year in the United States and about 9,000 died as a result of the infection. A: If you've been vaccinated and get pertussis, you are less likely to have a serious infection. Typically, your cough won't last as many days and coughing fits, whooping, and vomiting after coughing fits won't occur as often.
1 Newborns are not immune until they have had their whooping cough vaccines. 2  To protect them until they are immune, keep people with a cough away from your baby. 3  The vaccine for babies is given at 2, 4 and 6 months. 4  The first dose can be given as early as 6 weeks. Protect your baby. 1 
Prevention. Whooping cough is most contagious before the coughing starts, so the most effective way to prevent it is through immunization. The whooping cough booster vaccine for adults (and adolescents) is called Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis). Younger children get a different formulation, called DTaP. 1 FACT: A booster vaccine for adolescents and adults, known as Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis), protects against pertussis or “whooping cough.”. 2  FACT: The CDC recommends that adults receive a single dose of Tdap in place of one Td (tetanus-diphtheria) booster, which is recommended every 10 years for adults.
A: There are a lot of causes behind a person's cough and not every cough is pertussis. In general, pertussis starts off with cold-like symptoms and maybe a mild cough or fever. But after 1 to 2 weeks, severe coughing can begin. A: If you've been vaccinated and get pertussis, you are less likely to have a serious infection. Typically, your cough won't last as many days and coughing fits, whooping, and vomiting after coughing fits won't occur as often.
1 Vaccination of pregnant women with Tdap is especially important to help protect infants. 2  Pregnant women should get the vaccine late in the second trimester or in the third trimester for each pregancy. 3  All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 1 Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 2  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months.
Studies show childhood whooping cough vaccines are effective. In general, DTaP vaccination is effective for up to 8 or 9 out of 10 children who receive it, but protection fades over time. About 7 out of 10 children are fully protected 5 years after getting their last dose of DTaP. In general, childhood whooping cough vaccines (called DTaP) are effective for 8 or 9 out of 10 children who receive them. Among children who get all 5 doses of DTaP vaccine on schedule, effectiveness is very high within the year following the 5th dose — nearly all children (98 out of 100) are fully protected