A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. Like menstruation, menopause can vary from woman to woman and these changes may occur over several years. The time when your body begins its move into menopause is called the menopausal transition. This can last anywhere from 2 to 8 years.
Ovulation occurs BEFORE menstruation, as menstruation is the process where the unfertilised egg is flushed from the body along with the blood which lined the womb to hold the … egg if it is fertilised. Since it isn't, it breaks down and leaves the body via a 'period'. 7 people found this useful. If fertilization does not occur, the egg dies, and is discarded, and the lining of the uterus sloughs off, or sheds. All of this dead material must be flushed from the body, which is what the menstrual flow accomplishes.
Menstruation (men-STRAY-shuhn) is a woman's monthly bleeding. When you menstruate, your body sheds the lining of the uterus (womb). Menstrual blood flows from the uterus through the small opening in the cervix and passes out of the body through the vagina (see how the menstrual cycle works below). Most menstrual periods last from 3 to 5 days. Like menstruation, menopause can vary from woman to woman and these changes may occur over several years. The time when your body begins its move into menopause is called the menopausal transition. This can last anywhere from 2 to 8 years.
1 Your periods become very irregular after having had regular, monthly cycles. 2  Your period occurs more often than every 21 days or less often than every 35 days. 3  You are bleeding for more than 7 days. 4  You are bleeding more heavily than usual or using more than 1 pad or tampon every 1 to 2 hours. Like menstruation, menopause can vary from woman to woman and these changes may occur over several years. The time when your body begins its move into menopause is called the menopausal transition. This can last anywhere from 2 to 8 years.
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again. The Ovulation Cycle Divided into Two Parts: The first part of the ovulation cycle is called the follicular phase. This phase starts the first day of the last menstrual period (LMP) and continues until ovulation. This first half of the cycle can differ greatly for each woman lasting anywhere from 7 days until 40 days.
If pregnancy does not occur, the lining is released in what is known as menstruation. A number of problems with menstruation may occur. A lack of periods, known as amenorrhea, is when periods do not occur by age 15 or have not occurred in 90 days. Periods also stop during pregnancy and typically do not resume during the initial months of breastfeeding. Menstruation, also known as a period or monthly, is the regular discharge of blood and mucosal tissue from the inner lining of the uterus through the vagina. Up to 80% of women report having some symptoms prior to menstruation
Ovulation occurs BEFORE menstruation, as menstruation is the process where the unfertilised egg is flushed from the body along with the blood which lined the womb to hold the … egg if it is fertilised. Since it isn't, it breaks down and leaves the body via a 'period'. If fertilization does not occur, the egg dies, and is discarded, and the lining of the uterus sloughs off, or sheds. All of this dead material must be flushed from the body, which is what the menstrual flow accomplishes. 57 people found this useful.