The typical incubation period for influenza is 1—4 days (average: 2 days). Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Among generally healthy older adolescents and adults living in areas with confirmed influenza virus circulation, estimates of the positive predictive value of a simple clinical definition of influenza (acute onset of cough and fever) for laboratory-confirmed influenza infection have varied (range: 79%—88%).
1 The incubation period of swine flu is one to 7 days. 2  People may be contagious from one day before they develop symptoms to up to 7 days after they get sick. 3  There are two influenza antiviral medications that are currently effective against H1N1 flu. Type C has been found in humans, pigs, and dogs and causes either a very mild illness, or has no symptoms at all. It does not cause epidemics and does not have the severe public health impact that influenza types A and B do. The typical incubation period for influenza is 1 to 4 days, with an average of 2 days. Adults can be infectious from the day before symptoms begin through approximately 5 days after illness onset. Children can be infectious for
The incubation period of influenza is usually two days but can range from one to four days. What are the symptoms of influenza? Typical influenza disease is characterized by abrupt onset of fever, aching muscles, sore throat, and non-productive cough. 
Ascertainment of the incubation period for influenza virus (H5N1) is important to define exposure periods for surveillance of patients with suspected influenza virus (H5N1) infection. Limited data on the incubation period suggest that illness onset occurs 7 days after the last exposure to sick or dead poultry (1 – 4). 
Incubation Period. According to the CDC, although the incubation period can range from one to four days, the typical incubation period is two days. People can begin infecting others about one day before any symptoms of the virus appear, and are contagious for about a week after that. Influenza is a highly contagious respiratory illness. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, every year between 5 and 20 percent of people in the United States get the flu. More than 200,000 are hospitalized due to flu-related complications and nearly 36,000 die from causes related to the virus
The length of illness is usually 5 to 7 days. Because influenza can quite frequently lead to pneumonia, a cough and fever for more than 5 days should be investigated by a physician. Croup can also be associated with the flu in younger children. The incubation period (the time from when you become exposed to when you get sick) is about 3 days. The Infection Community epidemics can last 4 to 8 weeks, but the peak is usually 2 weeks after the beginning of the epidemic.
The estimated incubation period is unknown and could range from 1 to 7 days, and more likely 1 to 4 days. Persons with novel H1N1 flu virus infection should be considered potentially contagious (able to spread disease) for up to 7 days after illness onset. 
Dr. Clements: When you get infected with the flu virus, it multiplies quietly in body until you get symptoms of the disease and start excreting enough virus to give to someone else. That's the incubation period. For the flu, it is about two to five days. So if you are exposed today, you probably won't have any symptoms for three to five days. Then you have a little headache, maybe a few aches and pains and maybe a low fever. Then, the next day, you have a high fever and a runny nose. 