Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA
Mitochondria are certainly important but so are other organelles like ribosomes, lysosomes, Golgi apparatus, etc. It all depends on what the cells primary function is. For any … one individual cell, the mitochondria probably gives way to the nucleus as it has the instructions on how to create any other organelles. [All cell organelles are equally important. If the nucleus is concerned with the genetic constitution of the organism, the mitochondria is concerned with storage of food and r … elease of energy.
Organelles and Their Functions. The nucleus is arguably the most important organelle in the cell. It is the control center, telling all of the other organelles what to do and when to do it. The nucleus also contains all of the cell's genetic material, or its DNA. Making proteins is a very important job for a cell. Ribosomes are small pieces of RNA found throughout the cytoplasm and on some other organelles. Their only job is to assemble proteins. DNA coding tells them which proteins to make.
Plants are multicellular, eukaryotes organisms. They have membrane-bound organelles. A plant cell has a rigid cell wall, a central vacuole, plasmodesmata and plastids, which make it unique among all other type of eukaryotes cells. Plant cells sustain the photosynthesis process, during which oxygen is produced. 
Chloroplasts One of the most widely recognized and important characteristics of plants is their ability to conduct photosynthesis, in effect, to make their own food by converting light energy into chemical energy. This process occurs in almost all plant species and is carried out in specialized organelles known as chloroplasts. Plant cells are remarkable in that they have two organelles specialized for energy production: chloroplasts, which create energy via photosynthesis, and mitochondria, which generate energy through respiration, a particularly important process when light is unavailable.
Confidence votes 22. [All cell organelles are equally important. If the nucleus is concerned with the genetic constitution of the organism, the mitochondria is concerned with storage of food and release of energy. 
Plant cells are eukaryotic cells i.e., the DNA in a plant cell is enclosed within the nucleus. The most important distinctive structure of plant cell is the presence of the cell wall outside the cell membrane. It forms the outer lining of the cell. Plastids are cell organelles that store specific things found only in plant cell but absent in animal cells. In plant cell they are found in the cytoplasm. Plastids are spherical or ovoid in shape. They are involved in manufacture and storage of certain important chemical compounds.
Although some animal cells have this organelle, most of them are small. However, in plant cells, vacuoles are often very large and often take up much of the space in the cell. They hold water, food, or waste for the cells. (Note-although this organelle is also found animal cells, the vacuoles from plant cells are drastically bigger and play a much more important role in the processes of the cell.
All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. (Note-although this organelle is also found animal cells, the vacuoles from plant cells are drastically bigger and play a much more important role in the processes of the cell.
Nucleus. The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities. (Note-although this organelle is also found animal cells, the vacuoles from plant cells are drastically bigger and play a much more important role in the processes of the cell.