The World Bank Group (WBG) was established in 1944 to rebuild post-World War II Europe under the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). There are 184 member countries that are shareholders in the IBRD, which is the primary arm of the WBG. To become a member, however, a country must first join the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The size of the World Bank's shareholders, like that of the IMF's shareholders, depends on the size of a country's economy.
The Origins of the IMF and World Bank. The World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) were created at the end of World War II by the U.S. and British governments. During the war the business classes of Europe were either supporting the Nazis, getting their banks and factories bombed into oblivion or they fled Europe with all the money they could carry. 
The World Bank was created at the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference, along with three other institutions, including the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The president of the World Bank is, traditionally, an American. The World Bank and the IMF are both based in Washington, D.C. , and work closely with each other. The first country to receive a World Bank loan was France. The Bank's president at the time, John McCloy, chose France over two other applicants, Poland and Chile. The loan was for US$250 million, half the amount requested, and it came with strict conditions.
BREAKING DOWN 'The World Bank'. The World Bank was created at the end of World War II as a result of many European and Asian countries needing financing to fund reconstruction efforts. Created out of the Bretton Woods agreement of 1944, the Bank was successful in providing financing for these devastated countries. DEFINITION of 'The World Bank'. An international organization dedicated to providing financing, advice and research to developing nations to aid their economic advancement. Next Up.
Main Image: The World Bank is an institution created by the governments of the United States of America and Britain, at the end of the Second World War. The World Bank provides vital financial and technical assistance to developing countries around the world. The World bank was created in order to benefit all trading nations. The goal of the World Bank was to combine all the countries into a system of rewards and penalties.
International Monetary Fund-IMF. The World Bank was created at the end of World War II as a result of many European and Asian countries needing financing to fund reconstruction efforts. Created out of the Bretton Woods agreement of 1944, the Bank was successful in providing financing for these devastated countries. DEFINITION of 'The World Bank'. An international organization dedicated to providing financing, advice and research to developing nations to aid their economic advancement. Next Up.
(PDF 35kb). The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank were created in 1944 at a conference in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, and are now based in Washington, DC. 
The World Bank was created at Bretton Woods in 1944 to lend to European countries to help them rebuild after World War II. It was the world's first multilateral development bank, and was funded through the sale of World Bonds. The World Bank provides financial and technical assistance to emerging market countries. The World Bank is not actually a bank in the common sense. Instead, it consists of two development institutions -- the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)-- owned by 186 member countrie