Answer by Rachana1212. Confidence votes 437. To understand what nutrition does to us we must understand what nutrition is.Nutrition is defined as elements that are obtained from animal and plants product that are highly recommended for proper physiological growth of an individual. The main function of Nutrition, therefore is the proper growth of the body.The other important things it does in the body is, provides antigens (once they are processed by the body) to maintain strong immune power, to obtain energy for day to day work, to be safe from diseases.
Nutrition (also called nourishment or aliment) is the provision, to cells and organisms, of the materials necessary (in the form of food) to support life. Many common health p … roblems can be prevented or alleviated with a healthy diet. The main function of Nutrition, therefore is the proper growth of the body.The other important things it does in the body is, provides antigens (once they are processed by the body) to maintain strong immune power, to obtain energy for day to day work, to be safe from diseases.
Nutrition. Nutrition is the provision, to cells and organisms, of the materials necessary to support life. Many common health problems can be prevented or alleviated with a healthy diet. The diet of an organism is what it eats, which is largely determined by the perceived palatability of foods. 
At your initial visit, expect to do a lot of talking while the dietitian does a lot of listening.. After learning about your health history, favorite foods, eating and exercise habits, an RD or RDN will help you set goals and prioritize. Follow-up visits will focus on maintenance and monitoring your progress. 
Human nutrition refers to the provision of essential nutrients necessary to support human life and health. Generally, people can survive up to 40 days without food, a period largely depending on the amount of water consumed, stored body fat, muscle mass and genetic factors. 
That means that you should eat foods that are high in nutrition and low in calories. Foods such as fresh fruits apples (with the skin on), apricots, blueberries, grapefruit, banana to name just a few. Their nutritional values are enormous with a low calorie intake. But, you still need your protein. Vegetables are a great source and some of the best for that purpose are the green leafy ones,(cooked) collards, turnips, bok choy, kale and cabbage. Carrots, celery stalks are good cooked or raw. Changing your diet for the better does not mean that you have to torture your self with boring foods. With just a little bit of imagination you can make any food taste exceptionally good. Spice it up with heat or flavor by simply adding peppers or a combination of spices.
Let's take the first part of the question first, what is nutrition?. From Wikipedia-Nutrition (also called nourishment or aliment) is the provision, to cells and organisms, of the materials necessary (in the form of food) to support life. Changing your diet for the better does not mean that you have to torture your self with boring foods. With just a little bit of imagination you can make any food taste exceptionally good. Spice it up with heat or flavor by simply adding peppers or a combination of spices.
Nutrition also focuses on how diseases, conditions and problems can be prevented or lessened with a healthy diet. In addition, nutrition involves identifying how certain diseases, conditions or problems may be caused by dietary factors, such as poor diet (malnutrition), food allergies, metabolic diseases, etc. Nutrition: the study of nutrients in food, how the body uses nutrients, and the relationship between diet, health and disease. Major food manufacturers employ nutritionists and food scientists.
Nutrition, nourishment, or aliment, is the supply of materials-food-required by organisms and cells to stay alive. In science and human medicine, nutrition is the science or practice of consuming and utilizing foods. Nutrition: the study of nutrients in food, how the body uses nutrients, and the relationship between diet, health and disease. Major food manufacturers employ nutritionists and food scientists.