The chemical structure of a saturated fat is fully saturated with hydrogen atoms, and does not contain double bonds between carbon atoms. Unsaturated fats, on the other hand, … are found foods such as nuts, avocados, and olives. Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. This causes  saturated fats to be solid at room temperature, for instance the  fat on meat and coconut oil. Unsaturated fat … s are liquid at room  temperature, corn oil and soy oil are some examples of this.
Note: It is technically more accurate to call saturated and unsaturated fats types of fatty acids, as it is specifically the fatty acid found in a fat that is either saturated or unsaturated. However, referring to fatty acids as fats is common. Fats — or triglycerides — are made up of glycerol (an alcohol) and fatty acids, which are long carbon-hydrogen chains that end in a carboxyl group. Triglycerides are either saturated (with hydrogen) or unsaturated. Saturated fatty acids contain carbon atoms that connect with each other in a chain of single bonds.
To understand the difference between unsaturated fats and trans fat, it is best to understand what creates a fat. Fats are a group of compounds known as glycerides. Fatty acids attach to glycerides. These fatty acids are molecules that are composed of hydrogen and carbon atoms. There are two types of fatty acids--saturated and unsaturated acids, which attach to create saturated and unsaturated fats. Fats are an essential part of the human diet and are one of the body's major sources of energy.
Unsaturated vs Saturated Fats. The right information about the difference between saturated and unsaturated fats can help you in lowering your cholesterol levels! Saturated and unsaturated fats refer to the two types of fats that are found in your foods. Remember, fat is a very important nutrient that is found in your food. 1 there are differences in the effect produced on the body by saturated and unsaturated fats. 2  Saturated fats are harmful for the body. 3  They increase the level of LDL cholesterol in the blood, and therefore cause diseases like arteriosclerosis and others. 4  Unsaturated fats are very important for your body.
Confidence votes 9. Both saturated and unsaturated fats are made of two pieces, the fatty acid which is an extremely long carbon chain, and glycerol, a 3 carbon chain with hydrogen and oxygen bonded on them. They both have hydrogen bonded to their fatty acids. They are also both lipids. Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. This causes  saturated fats to be solid at room temperature, for instance the  fat on meat and coconut oil. Unsaturated fat … s are liquid at room  temperature, corn oil and soy oil are some examples of this.
Difference. Saturated fats are solid at room temperature, while unsaturated fats are liquid at room temperature. This is because saturated and unsaturated fats differ in their chemical structures. Saturated fats have no double bond between molecules, which means there are no gaps and the fat is saturated with hydrogen molecules. 
Both saturated and unsaturated fats are made of two pieces, the  fatty acid which is an extremely long carbon chain, and glycerol, a  3 carbon chain with hydrogen and oxygen … bonded on them. They both  have hydrogen bonded to their fatty acids. They are also both  lipids. Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. This causes  saturated fats to be solid at room temperature, for instance the  fat on meat and coconut oil. Unsaturated fat … s are liquid at room  temperature, corn oil and soy oil are some examples of this.
Best Answer: There are two types of fat to be aware of. Saturated fats-let's call them the enemy and unsaturated fats - the good guys! It is easy to tell the difference because saturated fats are hard at room temperature. Saturated fats are not essential to your health. They come from animals and are found in meat, eggs and cheese. Saturated fats have a single bond between the carbons in a fatty acid while an unsaturated has double or triple bonds between the carbons and fatty acid... saturated fat: EX: animal fat or palm oil etc unsaturated fat: EX: veggie oil, peanut, fish etc.