Making the world better, one answer at a time. Your kitchen sink should already be vented if there is a p-trap draining to the wall. if it is an s-trap it is not vented and not to present code requirements. The dishwasher drain goes into the side of the disposal and the disposal should drain to the trap. A separate vent is not required for the disposal or dishwasher as the trap for the sink is what requires a vent. Connect the drain back to the other side of the sink and the wall or floor. There is an outlet tube supplied with the disposal that curves down. If your configuration of drain allows you to use this, connect it to the other side of the drain.
With A Garbage Disposer-When there is a garbage disposer installed under the sink the dishwasher drain line will tie into the drain through the disposer. You can either go from the dishwasher to the air gap and then to the garbage disposer or from the dishwasher into the disposer using a high loop. Air Gap Method-Connecting the drain line to an air gap is one method for installing a dishwasher. In some areas the building codes require that a dishwasher be connected to an air gap installed on the sink.
It seems they have revamped their dishwasher line, and from the reviews that are out there, they appear to be a great dishwasher. I love the fully integraged controls, however, when you opt for the integrated controls, then the venting is on the top too...aimed right at the countertop. A word on dishwasher venting. Whether they have a vent or not, if you open the dishwasher before all the hot steam is condensed down, it will come swooshing out into your face and the counter top.
The drain is in the bottom of the dishwasher. There will always be an air gap between the supply line and the drain line -- it's just internal to the dishwasher. Backflow into the potable water system would seem improbable, if not impossible. 
You may want to run the dishwasher drain back to the kitchen sink plumbing with a longer flex line. Depending on your local area, You may need to run that drain high at some point, and then to the disposer or a seperate trap, Or you may need to use an air gap for the dishwasher. The waste on the kitchen sink is 2 below the vent. The the traparm, trap and vent can be 1-1/2.
My dishwasher also works perfectly. I do not SEE the moisture coming from the vent, but after the cycle is run, it vents the moisture in to my cabinetry. If your dishwasher is installed FLUSH with the cabinetry (and I have full overlay doors), you WILL in fact get moisture there. It is indeed a vent. To all Kitchenaid dishwasher owners, I am preparing to purchase a dishwasher and have read much on these forums about the issues with moisture venting out on cabinets and under the counter. Can any recent new owners tell me if you are experiencing problems with this.
Dishwasher Venting and Draining Methods: Air Gap Method-Connecting the drain line to an air gap is one method for installing a dishwasher. In some areas the building codes require that a dishwasher be connected to an air gap installed on the sink. Air gaps are there to keep any contaminants in the drain line from entering the potable water system.