Motor unit recruitment is a measure of how many motor neurons are activated in a particular muscle, and therefore is a measure of how many muscle fibers of that muscle are activated. The higher the recruitment the stronger the muscle contraction will be. Motor unit recruitment refers to the activation of additional motor units to accomplish an increase in contractile strength in a muscle. A motor unit consists of one motor neuron and all of the muscle fibers it stimulates. All muscles consist of a number of motor units and the fibers belonging to a motor unit are dispersed and intermingle amongst fibers of other units
These fibers are arranged in motor units, each of which is composed of a single motor neuron and all the muscle fibers that that motor neuron innervates. Each motor unit contracts in an all-or-none fashion. In other words, if the motor neuron is excited, it will stimulate all of the muscle fibers to contract-that is, all of the muscle fibers within that particular motor unit. It's important to know that not all motor units are the same size. Different muscles contain different sizes of motor units-that is, more or less muscle fibers innervated by the same neuron. Larger motor units generate more tension as they're composed of more muscle fibers.
A single muscle usually consists of a number of motor units working together, known as the motor pool. When the central nervous system requires that a muscle contract, an electrical signal is sent along the motor neuron, stimulating the muscle fibers to contract. Upon contraction, the smallest motor unit, that is, the one associated with the fewest muscle fibers, is the normally the first activated. As the contraction progresses, larger motor units are brought into play. Efficient muscle contraction depends on the motor units within a muscle working effectively together
A motor unit is made up of a motor neuron and the skeletal muscle fibers innervated by that motor neuron's axonal terminals. Groups of motor units often work together to coordinate the contractions of a single muscle; all of the motor units within a muscle are considered a motor pool. All muscle fibers in a motor unit are of the same fiber type. When a motor unit is activated, all of its fibers contract. In vertebrates, the force of a muscle contraction is controlled by the number of activated motor unit
Motor unit consists of a motor neuron and the group of skeletal muscle fibers which it innervates. Three types of motor units are found in skeletal muscle. The largest of these are the type A motor units, which are characterized by high contractile speed and power. The first is the firing rate of the motor units involved, while the second relates to the number and types of units incorporated in the contraction. We have already seen that increasing the firing rate of an individual motor unit will increase the final strength of
Definition of Motor Unit. A motor unit consists of one somatic efferent (motor) neuron and all of the muscle fibers (cells) that it innervates. In the figure to the right, two motor units are illustrated diagrammatically. Notice that after an efferent axon enters the muscle, it branches and forms synapses with a number of muscle fibers. Thus, each motor unit is either relaxed or each presynaptic action potential causes an action potential in all of the muscle fibers of the motor unit, causing them all to contract at once. In the whole muscle, contractions of different strengths necessarily are created by activating different numbers of motor units.