However, the average price for small offices is generally in the neighborhood of $500 to $800 per month. Large offices are apt to pay anywhere from $2,000 to $5,000 per month. Most office cleaning companies will ask you to sign a one to three year contract.
With professional house cleaning, get a detailed quote. The average price to hire a cleaning service is between $90 and $150. Rates vary depending on the size of your home and what services you want. Frequency is also a factor; many service providers offer lower rates for weekly cleanings compared to monthly or bimonthly ones. Additional charges often apply for:
Businesses in major metropolitan cities will pay more for cleaning services than companies in rural areas. For instance, if you operate a 10,000-square foot office in New York City you could pay $0.05 to $0.10 per square foot.
Daily office cleaning rates in urban areas may cost approximately ten cents per square foot for every hour the professionals are on site. If you own a 15,000 square foot office building you can expect to pay several thousand dollars a month for daily (nightly) services.
- Business Services, Franklin, KY. Pricing details: Our company was looking for different commercial cleaning rates from companies in our area. We went with a professional that only charged us $175/month for our entire office. This was going to be done twice a week.
1 Most companies charge separately for labor-intensive special services such as stripping and waxing floors 25 cents - 50 cents a square foot), carpet cleaning ($20-$40 an hour), and cleaning microwaves or refrigerators ($10-$35 per appliance). 2  Generally the larger the office, the lower the cost per square foot.
Some cleaning services also charge a flat monthly fee, which is also based on the size of your office and the type of cleaning required. If you have a small office with just a handful of employees, light cleaning such as vacuuming and emptying the trash can run as little as $100 to $200 per month.
Estimated Rates for Maid Cleaning Services. 1  Rates are approximate and are based on a rate of $34.00 per person/per hour for routine/recurring cleaning service and $38.00 per person/per hour for all other types of cleaning: spring cleaning, move in/move out, etc.