So how did Suri Cruise accumulate a net worth of $0.5 million dollars at only eight years of age? In her parent’s divorce settlement, finalized almost two years ago, Cruise was ordered by the judge to pay $400 thousand dollars in child support a year for Suri. It should be noted, Holmes earns plenty of income with endorsement ads – most notably for Bobbi Brown cosmetics – and various film, theater and TV projects. Though it does not come anywhere near Tom Cruise’s net worth, Katie Holmes is worth $25 million on her own.
In the 1980s, she met Prince who became her lover and supporter, as well as he was the one to rename her Vanity. Once Prince realized that Matthews has a wonderful voice he even asked her to be the lead singer of the group Vanity 6. Known for its sexually explicit lyrics and performances, the group's biggest hit was Nasty Girl. After touring with Prince and The Time, Vanity decided to leave the group.
In addition to the $400 thousand allowance each year, Cruise also pays Suri’s expenses: education, insurance and what the judge labeled “extracurricular costs.” With a very moderate percentage of savings, Suri Cruise’s net worth will be far more than $0.5 million very soon. It should be noted, Holmes earns plenty of income with endorsement ads – most notably for Bobbi Brown cosmetics – and various film, theater and TV projects. Though it does not come anywhere near Tom Cruise’s net worth, Katie Holmes is worth $25 million on her own.
Actress | Soundtrack. Born Denise Katrina Matthews, Vanity is a glamorous Canadian ex-model and lead singer of the all-girl group Vanity 6. Of German and African/American parentage, she specialized in playing sultry female characters often in trouble with the law. 
$400 Thousand. Taimak Net Worth: Taimak is an American actor and stuntman who has a net worth of $400 thousand. Taimak was born in Los Angeles, California in June 1964. Taimak's debut acting role came in 1985 starred as Leroy Green in the movie The Last Dragon. Taimak Net Worth: Taimak is an American actor and stuntman who has a net worth of $400 thousand. Taimak was born in Los Angeles, California in June 1964
About Chuck Lorre. Chuck Lorre is a successful producer, writer, composer, and director with an estimated net worth of $600 million.Chuck Lorre has produced, written, or directed such hit shows as “Grace Under Fire”, “The Big Bang Theory”, “Two and a Half Men”, and is the current executive producer of “Mike and Molly”. 
Ask most people what their net worth is and they probably don't know. Show them how to calculate it and they'll be dying to know how they compare to their peers. In the blink of an eye, net worth went from an unknown variable to a characteristic that defines you as a person. That's not a healthy stance to take. And if you're in the 50th percentile, and over the age of 65, it's important to know that even if all $171,135 of your net worth is in cash and investments -- that will provide less than $7,000 per year in living expenses.
Vanity net worth: $1.5 Million. Vanity (Denise Katrina Matthews) Net Worth: Denise Katrina Matthews is a former model, singer/song writer, and actress who has a net worth of $1.5 million. Better known by her stage name Vanity, she pursued a glittering career from the 1980s through the early mid-'90s. A Canadian native, Matthews was born on January 4, 1959, in Niagara Falls, Ontario. Once Prince realized that Matthews has a wonderful voice he even asked her to be the lead singer of the group Vanity 6. Known for its sexually explicit lyrics and performances, the group's biggest hit was Nasty Girl. After touring with Prince and The Time, Vanity decided to leave the group.
“Caitlyn is going to be a pioneer,” he added. Jenner doesn’t need the dough. Her estimated net worth is $100 million, according to reports on Celebrity Net Worth and The Richest, and she was already pulling in $40,000 for motivational speaking tours when she was known as Bruce. But now people can’t get enough of Caitlyn. 