Processing Time. Although direct deposit is an option no matter how you file a federal tax return, e-filing combined with direct deposit usually is the fastest option. For example, while it takes the IRS about six to eight weeks to process an error-free paper return, it can process an e-filed return in about 21 days. In most cases, you’ll receive a state tax return even sooner than a federal return if you e-file. If you e-file a state return and a federal return together, the IRS will forward the return to your state after it accepts your federal return.
Go to irs.gov and click on the link Where's my refund. You must have the exact amount of the refund, plus your filing status (single, head of household, etc). With this info, along with your SSN, you should find your refund status. Also, refunds are usually credited on Fridays. The IRS states that it takes 3 weeks for electronically filed returns and 8 weeks for paper filed returns before you receive your refund. That being said, these are usually just guidelines. The time typically will vary
Confidence votes 6.7K. If tax return was filed online completely and correctly and you have received your acknowledgment from the IRS that they have received and accepted your 1040 federal income tax return as you filed it from that date it could take about 10 days to 3 weeks for you direct deposit. State along with federal taxes usually take 14 to 21 days if electronically filed with Direct Deposit. You can receive your refund sooner. But this is the norm. If you mail yo … ur return in with the account info for direct deposit, your still looking at approx 4 to 6 weeks.
The Best Time to File. Unlike with a paper return, there really is no best time to file a federal tax return electronically. Whether you file on Feb. 1 or on April 15, you can expect the IRS to issue a direct deposit refund within 21 days from the date the IRS accepts your return. “Accepted” means that your return has undergone electronic processing and found to be free from any errors. In most cases, you’ll receive a state tax return even sooner than a federal return if you e-file. If you e-file a state return and a federal return together, the IRS will forward the return to your state after it accepts your federal return.
Direct bank deposit of your tax refund money is the fastest and safest way to receive your IRS tax refund. A direct deposit transfers your tax refund check directly into your personal or joint checking or savings account via a secure electronic funds transfer. Direct Deposit Speed. Use efile.com to prepare and file your taxes and select the direct deposit option to receive your tax refund fast (usually 8-15 days after your tax return is accepted by the IRS).
Set up direct deposit (see sample check below): 1  Enter your bank's nine-digit routing number on the return you're filing. 2  Enter your bank account number on the return you're filing (up to 17 characters). 3  Your savings account number is available on your preprinted deposit slips, your passbook, or other bank records. Direct deposit is the easiest, fastest way to get your refund. Combine e-file with direct deposit to: 1  receive your refund in as little as 14 days. 2  avoid bank waiting lines. 3  get peace of mind -- no lost or undeliverable check
IRS Tax Refund Schedule. Here is the old IRS refund schedule for both direct deposit and mailed refunds. The IRS doesn’t guarantee that you’ll receive your refund by a certain date, but the schedule they publish does give some guidance. Please note that the dates provided are for efiled returns only. 
If I electronically file my income tax return, how long will it  take to get my refund?   If you select the direct deposit option, you could receive your  refund in as few as five business days compared to several weeks if  filing on paper. State along with federal taxes usually take 14 to 21 days if electronically filed with Direct Deposit. You can receive your refund sooner. But this is the norm. If you mail yo … ur return in with the account info for direct deposit, your still looking at approx 4 to 6 weeks.