Angel Eyes is a song written by John Hiatt and Fred Koller, for The Jeff Healey Band's first album See the Light (1988). It was first released as the album's second single in June 1989. Angel Eyes was a successful song and peaked at #5 in the U.S. It reached #16 in Canada, #79 in Australia, and #86 in the UK. Lips of an Angel is a power ballad by Oklahoma rock band Hinder. It was released as the second single from their album Extreme Behavior (2005). The song was the band's breakthrough hit, charting in the Top 10 in the United States, and reaching #1 in Australia and New Zealand.
Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Life is one big party when you're still young. But who's gonna have your back when it's all done. It's all good when you're little, you have pure fun. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Girl, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Closer than my peeps you are to me, baby. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Songwriters.
I wanna show the nation, my appreciation. Girl, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Closer than my peeps you are to me, baby. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Girl, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Closer than my peeps you are to me, baby. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Songwriters.
Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Girl, in spite of my behavior, said I'm your savior. (You must be sent from up above). Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Girl, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Closer than my peeps you are to me, baby. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Songwriters.
Best Answer: Hello! I will try to help you but I think that you have to be more specific! There is: YOU'RE MY ANGEL by B3! and this link may help you: http://www.metrolyrics.com/youre-my-ange... And there is: ANGEL by Shaggy... http://www.lyricsfreak.com/s/shaggy/ange...
Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. You're a queen and so you should be treated. Though you never get the lovin' that you needed. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Girl, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Closer than my peeps you are to me, baby. Shorty, you're my angel, you're my darling angel. Girl, you're my friend when I'm in need, lady. Songwriters.
In the United Kingdom where the Merrilee Rush version had failed to reach the Top 50 stalling at No. 55, Angel of the Morning reached No. 29 in August 1968 via a rendition by P.P. Arnold who had sung background on the 1967 Billie Davis version; Arnold's version was produced by Andrew Loog Oldham. In 1977 Mary Mason also had a UK Top 30 hit with her version (in fact a medley of two Chip Taylor songs: Angel of the Morning-Any Way That You Want Me), which reached No. 27. The Shaggy song  Angel  heavily samples Angel of the Morning, using the melody with different words for the sung refrain. Swedish singer Jill Johnson released Angel of the Morning, with lyrics in English, in 2007 from her cover album Music Row. This version peaked at No. 30 at the Swedish singles chart.
1 In 2001, the parody song You Ripped Off Angel (of the Morning) was released by Adam Posegate and received airplay on the Dr. Demento Show. 2  R&B artist Bei Maejor did a version of this song sampling the chorus and the beat. 3  It appeared on his mixtape Upsideown2. Angel  is a song by Jamaican reggae artist Shaggy featuring Rayvon. It was the follow-up to Shaggy's U.S. number-one hit . It Wasn't Me , released on March 6, 2001
Angel is the name of a song written and recorded by Jimi Hendrix, first released in February 1971 on the posthumous LP The Cry of Love. In April of 1971 it was put out as a single, which failed to chart. In the U.S. the single was backed with Freedom and in the UK with Night Bird Flying. Lips of an Angel is a power ballad by Oklahoma rock band Hinder. It was released as the second single from their album Extreme Behavior (2005). The song was the band's breakthrough hit, charting in the Top 10 in the United States, and reaching #1 in Australia and New Zealand.