Most Common Types of Ulcers. Peptic Ulcer. Any ulcer that is exposed to pepsin is referred to as peptic ulcers. Peptic ulcers are found in the lining of your stomach or duodenum.
Some of the most common types of ulcers are peptic ulcers, gastric ulcers and Duodenal ulcers. Ulcers are named for their location within the body. Sometimes ulcers can also be diagnosed by examining the mouth and tongue of the effected patient to detect and find the type of Ulcer.
The duodenal ulcer is an ulceration of the duodenum, which is the entryway to the small intestine. This type of ulcer is actually the most common ulcer in humans. It is thought that duodenal ulcers are so common because the duodenum contains more powerful digestive enzymes than the stomach.
Gastric Ulcer. A gastric ulcer is located in the stomach proper and is second most common of the types of stomach ulcers. This ulcer type is also caused by H pylori the majority of the time. Gastric ulcers do have a few differences.
Most people only know of two types of stomach ulcers... Most people know about two types of ulcers before they get diagnosed with a more specific type of ulcer. Generally, people refer only to stomach ulcers and peptic ulcers. We explain what the difference is between these two, and we also explain more about the lesser known
Both types of peptic ulcers are most commonly caused either by infection with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteriaHelicobacter pyloriH. pylori or by frequent use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) .
1 Peptic Ulcers: while all the other types of ulcer are named after the place where they occur, the peptic ulcer can be found in many different places. 2  The name refers to the presence of pepsin, a substance found in the digestive system, and a peptic ulcer can occur in the stomach, the duodenum or the oesophagus.
Gastric Ulcer. When a peptic ulcer is in your stomach, it is called a gastric ulcer. The symptoms of gastric ulcers are more specific than peptic ulcer symptoms. Duodenal Ulcer. When a peptic ulcer is in your duodenum, it is called a duodenal ulcer.