Summary : A copper penny is coated with a layer of zinc by heating in a zincate solution. The penny is then heated in a flame reacting zinc with copper, creating a brass coating on the penny. Hazards : Sodium hydroxide is caustic.
On the other hand, the salt/vinegar residue on the unrinsed pennies promotes a reaction between the copper and the oxygen in the air. The resulting blue-green copper oxide is commonly called 'verdigris'. It is a type of patina found on a metal, similar to tarnish on silver. 
The reaction that occurs is a redox reaction. The Copper metal (Cu 0)on the copper pennies is oxidized in concentrated nitric acid to produce Cu 2 + ions. Copper is easily oxidized to Cu 2 +, which is blue in aqueous solutions (water) so you should see the solution turn blue as the copper penny reacts.
(A chemical reaction is the combination of two reactants to form something entirely new.) A penny is made of copper. The vinegar on the paper towel helps the copper in the penny easily react with the oxygen in the air to form a blue-green colored compound called malachite. This is similar to why the Statue of Liberty (which is covered with a layer of copper) has turned greenish-blue.
Step 2: Balance the chemical reaction. The reaction of the copper in the pennies and oxygen to form copper oxide is shown below as Equation 1 in chemical equation format, with the empty brackets [ ] present to show a number needs to be placed within for the equation to be balanced. 
Remove the cleaned penny from the liquid and let it sit for an hour. The residue that is on the copper surface promotes a reaction between the copper and the oxygen in the air. The resulting blue-green copper oxide is a tarnish that forms called patina. These are copper minerals that are observed in nature. Green patina forms when a shiny copper penny is removed from the salt/vinegar solution. We can take the solution that we have been cleaning the copper pennies and coat a nickel nail with copper metal. The reaction is: Check with the Table of Activity of Metals 1  : Reaction 3 is observed because nickel is higher up on the activity series of metal than copper.
When the solution is diluted with water, water molecules displace the nitrate ions in the coordinate sites around the copper ions, causing the solution to change to a blue color. In dilute nitric acid, the reaction produces nitric oxide, NO, instead: 3Cu(s) + 8HNO 3 3) 2 (aq) + 2NO(g) + 4H 2 O(l). Copper + Nitric Acid. Copper is a reddish-brown metal, widely used in plumbing and electrical wiring; it is perhaps most familiar to people in the United States in the form of the penny.
Cleaning pennies. When you place copper coins, such as pennies, in a NaCl, tablesalt, and vinegar solution, the acetic acid from the vinegar dissolves the dull cupric oxide, leaving behind pennies with a shiny clean copper surface. We can take the solution that we have been cleaning the copper pennies and coat a nickel nail with copper metal. The reaction is: Check with the Table of Activity of Metals 1  : Reaction 3 is observed because nickel is higher up on the activity series of metal than copper.
When the copper is first oxidized, the solution is very concentrated, and the Cu 2+ product is initially coordinated to nitrate ions from the nitric acid, giving the solution first a green, and then a greenish-brownish color. Copper + Nitric Acid. Copper is a reddish-brown metal, widely used in plumbing and electrical wiring; it is perhaps most familiar to people in the United States in the form of the penny.
Description. In this experiment copper(II) oxide and zinc metal are reacted together. The reaction is exothermic and the products can be clearly identified. The experiment illustrates the difference in reactivity between zinc and copper and hence the idea of competition reactions. Lesson organisation.