acetylcholine The acetyl derivative of choline, produced at cholinergic nerve endings both in the brain, where it acts as a chemical transmitter, and at the junctions between nerves and muscles, where it stimulates muscle contraction. acetylcholine (ACh) One of the main neurotransmitters of the vertebrate nervous system. It is released at certain (cholinergic) nerve endings and may be excitatory or inhibitory; it initiates muscular contraction at neuromuscular junctions.
Torpedo california AChE complex with acetylcholine (PDB code 2ace). Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is key enzyme in the nervous system of animals. By rapid hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter, acetylcholine (ACh), AChE terminates neurotransmission at cholinergic synapses. It is a very fast enzyme, especially for a serine hydrolase, functioning at a rate approaching that of a diffusion-controlled reaction. ACh hydrolysis by AChE causes termination of cholinergic neurotransmission. Therefore, compounds which inhibit AChE might significantly increase the levels of ACh depleted in AD. Indeed, it was shown that AChE inhibitors improve the cognitive abilities of AD patients at early stages of the disease development.
AChE is a hydrolase that hydrolyzes choline esters. It has a very high catalytic activity-each molecule of AChE degrades about 25000 molecules of acetylcholine (ACh) per second, approaching the limit allowed by diffusion of the substrate. During neurotransmission, ACh is released from the nerve into the synaptic cleft and binds to ACh receptors on the post-synaptic membrane, relaying the signal from the nerve. AChE, also located on the post-synaptic membrane, terminates the signal transmission by hydrolyzing ACh.
Acetylcholinesterase (HGNC symbol ACHE), also known as AChE or acetylhydrolase, is the primary cholinesterase in the body. It is an enzyme that catalyzes the breakdown of acetylcholine and of some other choline esters that function as neurotransmitters. AChE is found at mainly neuromuscular junctions and in chemical synapses of the cholinergic type, where its activity serves to terminate synaptic transmission. During neurotransmission, ACh is released from the nerve into the synaptic cleft and binds to ACh receptors on the post-synaptic membrane, relaying the signal from the nerve. AChE, also located on the post-synaptic membrane, terminates the signal transmission by hydrolyzing ACh.
Acetylcholine. Photo by: RAJ CREATIONZS. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter produced by neurons referred to as cholinergic neurons. In the peripheral nervous system acetylcholine plays a role in skeletal muscle movement, as well as in the regulation of smooth muscle and cardiac muscle. For the nerve signal to continue, acetylcholine must diffuse to another nearby neuron or muscle cell, where it will bind and activate a receptor protein. There are two main types of cholinergic receptors, nicotinic and muscarinic.
In biochemistry, a cholinesterase or choline esterase is an esterase that lyses choline-based esters, several of which serve as neurotransmitters. The other type is butyrylcholinesterase (also called choline esterase II or plasma cholinesterase); it is found mainly in the blood plasma.
Acetylcholinesterase (EC 3.1.1.7) (ACHE), also known as AChE, RBC cholinesterase or erythrocyte cholinesterase, or (most formally) acetylcholine acetylhydrolase, is found primarily in the blood on red blood cell membranes, in neuromuscular junctions, and in other neural synapses. The other type is butyrylcholinesterase (also called choline esterase II or plasma cholinesterase); it is found mainly in the blood plasma.
Abstract. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) terminates the neurotransmission at cholinergic synapses by splitting the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. The nature and didtribution of the enzyme has extensively been studied in many invertebrates and vertebrates including human, histochemically and biochemically. Biochemistry and structural dynamics. The three dimensional structure of AChE was first determined in by Joel Sussman et.al. in1991, using the protein from T. californica (22). The structures of the catalytic domains of the AChEs from species as T. californica, mouse and human are quite similar (fig.1) (23, 24).
Acetylcholine (ACh) is a major Neurotransmitter in the central and peripheral nervous systems. It is the ester of acetate and choline, formed by the enzyme choline acetyl transferase, from choline and acetyl-CoA. This was the first substance (ca. 1906) to meet the criteria of identification for a neurotransmitter. acetylcholine (ACh) One of the main neurotransmitters of the vertebrate nervous system. It is released at certain (cholinergic) nerve endings and may be excitatory or inhibitory; it initiates muscular contraction at neuromuscular junctions.
The two types of cholinesterase are acetylcholinesterase (ACHE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE). The difference between the two types has to do with their respective preferences for substrates: the former hydrolyses acetylcholine more quickly; the latter hydrolyses butyrylcholine more quickly. The other type is butyrylcholinesterase (also called choline esterase II or plasma cholinesterase); it is found mainly in the blood plasma.