Click the Save & Close button to save your changes. The picture you have selected will now appear beside your name on your business card in your Contacts list. The picture will also appear in your business card when it is inserted into an email. To insert your business card into an email click the Insert tab. Then click the Business Card drop-down menu and select your business card. I hope this FAQ helped you add a picture to your business card in Outlook 2010. 
To add or change your picture, please follow the directions below: To Add/Change Your Picture: 1  From any SharePoint site, click the dropdown for your username in the top-right corner and click My Profile. 2  Click the Edit My Profile link under your picture. 3  In the Picture section, click Choose Picture. 4  Click the Browse button. 5  Browse your computer for the desired image and click Open. 
In addition to documents, you can also send pictures to your Google Docs account via email (or upload them from the web browser) and each attached picture will appear as a separate document in your Google Docs dashboard. You know how easy it is to upload Office documents to Google Docs – just attach the files to an email message and send it to a secret address that has been assigned to you by Google Docs. See your pictures in
1 Click the Upload button at the top of the screen. 2  Drag and drop images into the window or click the Choose photos and videos button to browse your hard drive. 3  Select more photos as desired. 4  You can also add a description and tags for each photo using the options on the left. Shoot or upload a picture. To upload pictures with Instagram, you have two options: you can use Instagram's camera function to take a picture directly in the app, or upload a picture from your phone's storage. See below: 1  To take a picture, tap the button in the center of the bottom of the screen to turn on the camera.
Bring up your email program go to create mail go to insert and find the picture you want using the prompts. Take care that you only try to send jpgs ir gifs because trying to send some of the really big files will jamb things up. If you go to your pictures folder or whatever folder you saved your pictures in, right click the picture then choose the send to option and then choose the mail recipient option and it will automatically attach it to an email. 1 person found this useful.
Create a signature. For each icon that you want to use in your email signature, right-click the icon below, and then click Save picture as. Save the icon to your computer. Website. Icon. Facebook. Twitter. LinkedIn. Flickr. Open a new message. 
1 Go to the album you want to add photos to. 2  Click Add Photos in the top right. 3  Pick the image files you want to upload. 4  Hold down the Control key on your PC or the Command key on your Mac while clicking the image files to upload multiple files at once. When you make a photo your profile picture or cover photo, a public copy of that photo is added to your Profile Pictures or Cover Photos album. To add photos to an album you created: 1 