Often plants and animals were trapped, being buried in the sediments. As the sediments hardened into sedimentary rock, the dead things hardened into fossils. The vast majority of visible fossils are marine invertebrates, animals that live in the sea and have no backbone, mostly animals with a hard outer shell.
Because sediments sometimes include once-living organisms, sedimentary rock often contains a lot of fossils. Fossils are once-living organisms that have been turned into rock, in which the shape or form of the organism can still be seen.
Sedimentary rocks can contain fossils because, unlike most igneous and metamorphic rocks, they form at temperatures and pressures that do not destroy fossil remains. Dead organisms can become sediments which may, under the right conditions, become sedimentary rock.
Sedimentary rocks can contain fossils because, unlike most igneous and metamorphic rocks, they form at temperatures and pressures that do not destroy fossil remains. Dead orga … nisms can become sediments which may, under the right conditions, become sedimentary rock.
Fossils are typically found in sedimentary rock, almost all of which were originally deposited as sediments by moving water. Subsequent processes hardened them into sedimentary rock, as overlying pressure squeezed the water out and the grains were cemented together.
Igneous rock forms from magma; no chance for fossils to form there. Metamorphic rocks are other rock types that are changed by heat and pressure; their transformation and mineral reorganization causes very few fossils to be found there. Sedimentary rock can be formed from the accumulation of sediments and are often formed near ancient shores, basins, and lake beds. If an organism dies and is covered by sediments before being rotted or eaten by predatory organisms, it could eventually become part of the sedimentary layer that becomes rock.
Sedimentary rocks form when particles of sediment are deposited by water or wind, and then (in most cases) hardened or consolidated through time. Shale, sandstone, and limestone are types of sedimentary rocks that often contain fossils.