Scientific names are also designed to tell you something about the animal's relationships with other animals. The scientific name of each species is made up of a generic name (generic epithet) and a specific name (specific epithet). In our bluegill sunfish example the generic epithet is Lepomis and the specific epithet is macrochirus.
There many, many examples of common names being identical or very similar to the genus name or species name. The point at hand is that scientific names serve a valuable function and they should not instill negative perceptions.
Genus and Species are the two least inclusive taxonomic groups that scientist classify living things in (species is the least inclusive. Genus and Species are both part of the scientific name of an organism. i.e. Micropterus salmoides (largemouth bass).
In such cases one name is chosen for the species and the other names are referred to as synonyms of the species name. For example, all bats in the genus Lasiurus were once also known by the generic name Nycteris. So Lasiurus borealis would have also been known as Nycteris borealis.
Every species can be unambiguously identified with just two words. The genus name and species name may come from any source whatsoever. Often they are Latin words, but they may also come from Ancient Greek, from a place, from a person, a name from a local language, etc. In fact, taxonomists come up with specific descriptors from a variety of sources, including inside-jokes and puns.
Genus is the name given to a group of organisms whose physical characteristics are permanent and similar, and largely confined to that group. In Latin, it is a naming noun derived in part from medieval Latin, classical Latin, and latinized versions of words in other languages, principally Greek.
• Genus is the first name, and the species is the second name of a scientific name of any organism. • Genus ranks higher compared to species in the hierarchy of taxonomy. • Two fertile animals from one species can produce a fertile progeny, whereas two animals from one genus could or could not do so.