An offer in compromise allows you to settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. It may be a legitimate option if you can't pay your full tax liability, or doing so creates a financial hardship. We consider your unique set of facts and circumstances: 1  Ability to pay; 2  Income; 3  Expenses; and. 4  Asset equity. You'll find step-by-step instructions and all the forms for submitting an offer in the Offer in Compromise Booklet, Form 656-B (PDF). Your completed offer package will include: 1  Form 433-A (OIC) (individuals) or 433-B (OIC) (businesses) and all required documentation as specified on the forms;
Usually, after you file your offer in compromise it will take about a month for the IRS to send you a letter that states the IRS has received your offer in compromise and is going to be assigned to an offer examiner for review. Decision Timeline: How long until the IRS makes a Decision on my Offer in Compromise. Question: I have filed an offer in compromise and want to know what the average time is for the IRS to approve my offer in compromise and finalize the process.
The length of time it takes for the IRS to approve an offer in compromise varies from case to case, but in general, you can expect it to take anywhere from six to twelve months. The IRS generally receives a large number of offers in compromise in a given tax year, and the IRS has a limited number of caseworkers who work on these offers. Therefore, it may take some time before the specific details of your case are assigned to a caseworker for the review process to begin.
1 Federal tax liens are not released until your offer terms are satisfied; and. 2  Certain offer information is available for public review at designated IRS offices. 3  You may appeal a rejection within 30 days using Request for Appeal of Offer in Compromise, Form 13711 (PDF). You'll find step-by-step instructions and all the forms for submitting an offer in the Offer in Compromise Booklet, Form 656-B (PDF). Your completed offer package will include: 1  Form 433-A (OIC) (individuals) or 433-B (OIC) (businesses) and all required documentation as specified on the forms;
in Offer in compromise. You want to submit an offer in compromise to the IRS, but you need an answer and relief now, fast. Your circumstances are immediate, but it takes the IRS a minimum of 6-9 months to process, investigate and get managerial approval of an offer in compromise. That may not be acceptable. Maybe you are selling real estate, and have a closing pending hat will fund the settlement. A key to getting the IRS to move quick is demonstrating how your time constraints will impact payment to the IRS. These examples are not exclusive, but they do demonstrate that, to the IRS, emergency processing of an offer in compromise is all about time and money.
A tax attorney can help you with your offer in compromise. An attorney will have the training and experience to know the types of situations for which the IRS generally accepts offers in compromise, as well as the support you will need to include with your offer for it to be seriously considered. The IRS generally receives a large number of offers in compromise in a given tax year, and the IRS has a limited number of caseworkers who work on these offers. Therefore, it may take some time before the specific details of your case are assigned to a caseworker for the review process to begin.
If the IRS has not approved or rejected your offer in compromise within two years from the date when the IRS receives the offer, then the IRS is required to accept the offer. You may surprised that it generally takes up to a year to complete the offer in compromise process. The IRS generally receives a large number of offers in compromise in a given tax year, and the IRS has a limited number of caseworkers who work on these offers. Therefore, it may take some time before the specific details of your case are assigned to a caseworker for the review process to begin.
But there is a flip side to the often frustrating amount of time it can take the IRS to investigate an offer in compromise. The IRS does not have forever, and there are ramifications if the IRS takes too long to act on an offer. 
An offer in compromise is a settlement option offered by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that may allow a taxpayer to address their federal income tax liability for an amount less than the full amount owed. The IRS generally receives a large number of offers in compromise in a given tax year, and the IRS has a limited number of caseworkers who work on these offers. Therefore, it may take some time before the specific details of your case are assigned to a caseworker for the review process to begin.