Vinnie /vin-nie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys (also used as girls' name Vinnie). Vinnie's name origins are French and Latin, and the meaning of the name Vinnie is little bald one; prevailing. Vinnie is an alternate form of Calvin (French): form of calve. Vinnie is also a variant of Melvin. Vinnie is also used as a variant of Vincent (Latin). Kreatif forms: Vilnie, Vinney, Virnie. Vinnie is an uncommon last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Cal, Calvin (#182 a year ago) , Kalvin, Mel, Melvin (#672) , Melvyn, Vicente (#744) , Vince, Vincent (#104) and Vincenzo (#812) are the popular variation forms of Vinnie (outside Top 1000) rated in the Top 1000.
(2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the popularity of Vinny and associated names. Prominent varying forms of Vinny (not ranked) listed in the Top 1000 are Vicente (#744 a year ago) , Vince, Vincent (#104) and Vincenzo (#812) . Vinny has 1 variant: Vinnie. Vinny has 17 more related forms via Vincent: Vicente ▼ , Vicenzio, Vicenzo, Vin, Vince ▼ , Vincens, Vincente, Vincentius, Vincents, Vincenty, Vincenz, Vincenzio, Vincenzo ▼ , Vincien, Vinicent, Vinzenz and Wincenty.
Vinny /vin-ny/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Latin origin, and the name Vinny means prevailing. Vinny is a version of Vincent (Latin): from Vincentius. Compare surname Viena. Kreatif forms: Vanny, Vany, Viny. Vinny has 1 variant: Vinnie. Vinny has 17 more related forms via Vincent: Vicente ▼ , Vicenzio, Vicenzo, Vin, Vince ▼ , Vincens, Vincente, Vincentius, Vincents, Vincenty, Vincenz, Vincenzio, Vincenzo ▼ , Vincien, Vinicent, Vinzenz and Wincenty.
Vinnie is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Vi-nnie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 7462 in baby name popularity for boys with 11 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Vinnie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Vinnie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Vinnie to other names. Vinnie is a diminutive (nickname) of Vincent
Latin Meaning: The name Vinny is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Vinny is: Conquering. SoulUrge Number: 9. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire to serve humanity and to give to others by sharing money, knowledge and experience, or creative and artistic ability.
Origin of the name Vincent: French form of the Late Latin Vincentius (conquering), which is derived from vincere (to conquer). Var: Vince. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Vinnie: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Vinnie: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Vinnie : | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Vinnie: | Edit. British actor Vinnie Jones. American rapper Vinnie Paz.
Latin Meaning: The name Vinnie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Vinnie is: Conqueror. English Meaning: The name Vinnie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Vinnie is: Form of Vincent 'conquering.