Spanish Lesson: Fall Words. Description: Ah, Autumn-the season of apples, pumpkins, and colorful leaves! Here are the Spanish terms for some fun words associated with Fall. Created by: JWhatmough.
Copyright © 2006 Harrap Publishers Limited. autumn [ˈɔːtəm]. especially (Britain) otono (otoño) m in autumn en; Otono otoño i like to go (walking) in the autumn me gusta salir a pasear; en otono otoño in the autumn of 1998 en el; otono otoño/de 1998 in early/late autumn a principios; a finales del otono otoño an autumn. day un dia día de
in autumn en otono; Otoño i like to go walking (in) the autumn me gusta salir a pasear en; otono otoño in the autumn of 1998 en el otono; otoño de/1998 in early late/autumn a principios a; finales del otono otoño an autumn day. un dia día de
in autumn en otono; Otoño i like to go walking (in) the autumn me gusta salir a pasear en; otono otoño in the autumn of 1998 en el otono; otoño de/1998 in early late/autumn a principios a; finales del otono otoño an autumn day. Un Dia Día De Otono © HarperCollins Collins complete. spanish electronic dictionary harpercollins publishers 2011
1 otono otoño ⇒ m in autumn en ⇒ Otono otoño i like to go (walking) in the autumn me gusta salir a pasear ⇒ en otono otoño in the autumn of 1998 en el ⇒ otono otoño/de 1998 in early/late autumn a principios ⇒ a finales del otono otoño an autumn.  day un dia día de
1 Also called (esp US): fall the season of the year between summer and winter, astronomically from the September equinox to the December solstice in the N hemisphere and from the March equinox to the June solstice in the S hemisphere. ( 2 as modifier) : autumn leaves.
By Gerald Erichsen. In Spanish, the four seasons of the year are: 1  el invierno — winter. 2  la primavera — spring. 3  el verano — summer. 4  el otono — otoño autumn or.  fall
1 the season between summer and winter; fall. 2  In the Northern Hemisphere it is from the September equinox to the December solstice; in the Southern Hemisphere it is from the March equinox to the June solstice.