30% of your score is credit utilization: how much of your credit limit is used up by your balance? On each revolving account, you need to keep your balance below 30% of your credit limit, or you will hurt your FICO score. For example, if you have a $200 credit limit, you must not have a balance higher than $60, which is 30% of $200. Every time you apply for credit, the lender makes a hard inquiry into your credit history, and this type of inquiry hurts your FICO score a few points. You get all these hard inquiry points back over the course of a year after the hard inquiry, and the inquiry falls off your reports at the 2-year mark.
Increase your credit limits. The first simple and fast tip to raising your credit score is by increasing your credit card limits. If your balance is $4900 on your $5000 limit card, your balance to credit ratio is nearly 100%. By raising your limit to say $8000, your score will jump because you now don’t look as stretched on your report. First off, make sure you get your current credit score. Check my page for a current promotional code from MyFico. They have a free trial and they are the only company I trust to get real, legit FICO scores. Also if you need any other legal documents use a Legal Zoom Promo Code and save on your legal documents.
1 Keep balances low on credit cards and other revolving credit. 2  High outstanding debt can affect a credit score. 3  Pay off debt rather than moving it around. 4  The most effective way to improve your credit scores in this area is by paying down your revolving (credit cards) debt. Amounts Owed Tips. This category contributes 30% to a FICO Score's calculation and can be easier to clean up than payment history, but that requires financial discipline and understanding the tips below. 1 
The Second Step. Next, find the items on your credit report that are pulling your credit scores down and put them into a list, organize the list with the oldest accounts at the top of the list. You are going to be using this list to dispute these negative accounts with the credit bureaus through dispute letters. The first step in making your credit score go up is to determine the reason why it is bad in the first place. Generally it will be from late payments, maxed out credit cards ,excessive credit inquiries and other irresponsible behavior. The best way to accomplish this is to buy and examine a copy of your credit report.
1 High outstanding debt can affect a credit score. 2  Pay off debt rather than moving it around. 3  The most effective way to improve your credit scores in this area is by paying down your revolving (credit cards) debt. 4  In fact, owing the same amount but having fewer open accounts may lower your scores. Amounts Owed Tips. This category contributes 30% to a FICO Score's calculation and can be easier to clean up than payment history, but that requires financial discipline and understanding the tips below. 1  Keep balances low on credit cards and other revolving credit. 2 
But if you’re trying to boost your credit score quickly, you should start by paying off the credit card with the lowest available credit limit. For example, say you have two credit cards. One credit card has a $1,600 limit with a $400 balance, which means 25 percent of your available credit is being used. 
The fastest way to raise your credit score is by reducing your balance to credit ratio. For example, if you have a $5000 limit credit card, but owe $4900, that will kill your score. Reducing that balance down to 0 or even $1000, would likely cause a jump of 40+ points or more in your score. First off, make sure you get your current credit score. Check my page for a current promotional code from MyFico. They have a free trial and they are the only company I trust to get real, legit FICO scores. Also if you need any other legal documents use a Legal Zoom Promo Code and save on your legal documents.
Get a responsible loan. If you know you'll be able to pay it off, a small personal loan can increase your credit score. About 10% of your FICO credit score is what's called account mix, or basically how many different loans and credit accounts you have. 1 Ideal credit utilization rates are under 10%. 2  If you can get your total debt to under 10% of your available credit, you've done very well. 3  This should be your target debt level, even if it might take you a while to get there. 4  In general, keeping your utilization under 30% is healthy.
The number one recommended way to quickly boost a score is to check your credit report and make corrections when applicable. Both MyFICO and Forbes recommend this as a first step to a quick fix. Credit reports are known to have errors, and many errors can cost you tens or even hundreds of points on your score. Make Substantial Debt Payments. If you have some free cash, making sizable payments on debt accounts can boost your score significantly. In fact, behind disputing errors, paying down credit card balances is the fastest track to a score spike.
1 Check Your Credit Report  Credit score repair begins with your credit report. 2  If you haven't already, request a free copy of your credit report and check it for errors. 3  Your credit report contains the data used to calculate your score and it may contain errors. Amounts Owed Tips. This category contributes 30% to a FICO Score's calculation and can be easier to clean up than payment history, but that requires financial discipline and understanding the tips below. 1  Keep balances low on credit cards and other revolving credit. 2  High outstanding debt can affect a credit score.