Geography. Honduras, in the north-central part of Central America, has a Caribbean as well as a Pacific coastline. Guatemala is to the west, El Salvador to the south, and Nicaragua to the east. The second-largest country in Central America, Honduras is slightly larger than Tennessee. Generally mountainous, the country is marked by fertile plateaus, river valleys, and narrow coastal plains.
1 BY NATURALIZATION: Honduran nationality may be acquired by: 2  Central American by birth who has resided one year in Honduras. 3  Spaniards and Spanish-Americans by birth who have resided two years in Honduras. 4  Any person who has resided in Honduras for at least three years. Honduras Citizenship. HONDURAN CITIZENSHIP: Citizenship laws are based upon the Honduran Constitution. 1  BY BIRTH: 2  Child born within the territory of Honduras, regardless of the nationality of the parents. 3  Children of diplomats are excluded
The following may possess dual citizenship: 1  Child of Honduran citizens born abroad. 2  Honduran who acquires foreign citizenship by marriage. 3  Person granted citizenship by act of the National Congress. 4  Citizens of countries with which Honduras has dual nationality treaties. Honduras Citizenship. HONDURAN CITIZENSHIP: Citizenship laws are based upon the Honduran Constitution. 1  BY BIRTH: 2  Child born within the territory of Honduras, regardless of the nationality of the parents. 3  Children of diplomats are excluded
A person from country Honduras, in Central America, is referred to as a Honduran; Central Americans may refer to Hondurans as Catrachos (refer to the Wikipedia link, below … , for an explanation). + 11 others found this useful. Jacob Hollier. Honduras is a country in Central America (a strip of land that connects North America and South America, usually considered to be part of the North American continent). It's bordered by Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean sea (part of the Atlantic Ocean).
Answer by Aurora windsong. Confidence votes 21. A person from country Honduras, in Central America, is referred to as a Honduran ; Central Americans may refer to Hondurans as Catrachos (refer to the Wikipedia link, below, for an explanation). The country of El Salvador is west of Honduras. It is also  southeast of Guatemala. All of these countries are in Central  America.
The following may possess dual citizenship: Child of Honduran citizens born abroad. Honduran who acquires foreign citizenship by marriage. Person granted citizenship by act of the National Congress. Citizens of countries with which Honduras has dual nationality treaties. CITIZENSHIP: Citizenship laws are based upon the Honduran Constitution. BY BIRTH: Child born within the territory of Honduras, regardless of the nationality of the parents. Children of diplomats are excluded.
1 BY DESCENT: Child born abroad, at least one of whose parents is a citizen of Honduras. 2  BY NATURALIZATION: Honduran nationality may be acquired by: 3  Central American by birth who has resided one year in Honduras. 4  Spaniards and Spanish-Americans by birth who have resided two years in Honduras. Honduras Citizenship. HONDURAN CITIZENSHIP: Citizenship laws are based upon the Honduran Constitution. 1  BY BIRTH: 2  Child born within the territory of Honduras, regardless of the nationality of the parents. 3  Children of diplomats are excluded
Honduras (/hɒnˈdʊərəs/ ; [onˈduɾas]), officially the Republic of Honduras (Spanish: Republica república De), honduras is a republic In Central. America it was at times referred to As Spanish honduras to differentiate it From British, honduras which became the-modern day state Of. belize Honduras is bordered to the west by Guatemala, to the southwest by El Salvador, to the southeast by Nicaragua, to the south by the Pacific Ocean at the Gulf of Fonseca, and to the north by the Gulf of Honduras, a large inlet of the Caribbean Sea.
BY NATURALIZATION: Honduran nationality may be acquired by: 1  Central American by birth who has resided one year in Honduras. 2  Spaniards and Spanish-Americans by birth who have resided two years in Honduras. 3  Any person who has resided in Honduras for at least three years. CITIZENSHIP: Citizenship laws are based upon the Honduran Constitution. BY BIRTH: Child born within the territory of Honduras, regardless of the nationality of the parents. Children of diplomats are excluded.