Strategic sourcing is an institutional procurement process that continuously improves and re-evaluates the purchasing activities of a company. Cooperative sourcing is a collaboration or negotiation of different companies, which have similar business processes. To save costs, the competitor with the best production function can insource the business process of the other competitors.
Sourcing. Reactive and strategic sourcing approaches are not mutually exclusive, however, strategic approaches are preferable because of their inherent ability to maximise value (Bullen et al., 2010). Sourcing is a critical activity used at both tactical and strategic levels. It is concerned with what needs to be purchased, why, when and where. The concept is created to help supply chain managers and practitioners to improve, develop and implement strategic sourcing strategies. Sourcing References (4 of up to 20) *. 1  Aberdeen Group (2010) Strategic Sourcing: The 2010 Guide to Driving Savings and Procurement Performance. [ 2 online] Available at: www.aberdeen.com/aberdeen-library/6305/RA-strategic-sourcing-savings-procurement.aspx [Accessed 07 November 2011].
In the services industry, strategic sourcing refers to a service solution, sometimes called a Strategic Partnership, that is specifically customized to meet the client's individual needs. In a production environment, it is often considered one component of supply chain management. Cooperative sourcing is a collaboration or negotiation of different companies, which have similar business processes. To save costs, the competitor with the best production function can insource the business process of the other competitors.
Reactive and strategic sourcing approaches are not mutually exclusive, however, strategic approaches are preferable because of their inherent ability to maximise value (Bullen et al., 2010). Sourcing References (4 of up to 20) *. 1  Aberdeen Group (2010) Strategic Sourcing: The 2010 Guide to Driving Savings and Procurement Performance. [ 2 online] Available at: www.aberdeen.com/aberdeen-library/6305/RA-strategic-sourcing-savings-procurement.aspx [Accessed 07 November 2011].
Definition: A systematic and fact‐based approach for optimizing an organization's supply base and improving the overall value proposition. 
Sourcing is the location, acquisition and management of all the vital inputs required for an organisation to operate. This includes raw materials, component parts, products, labour in all its forms, location and services (Hinkelman, 2008:578). Sourcing References (4 of up to 20) *. 1  Aberdeen Group (2010) Strategic Sourcing: The 2010 Guide to Driving Savings and Procurement Performance. [ 2 online] Available at: www.aberdeen.com/aberdeen-library/6305/RA-strategic-sourcing-savings-procurement.aspx [Accessed 07 November 2011].
The steps in a strategic sourcing process were defined, in 1994, as: 1  Assessment of a company's current spending (what is bought, where, at what prices?). 2  Assessment of the supply market (who offers what?). 3  Total cost analyses (how much does it cost to provide those goods or services?). 4  Identification of suitable suppliers. 5  Development of a 6  ... Nego Cooperative sourcing is a collaboration or negotiation of different companies, which have similar business processes. To save costs, the competitor with the best production function can insource the business process of the other competitors.
Fiscal Challenge for current year and beyond requires cost reductions. Strategic Sourcing –Sustaining New Synergies Task Force Initiative. Purdue engaged Huron Consulting Group to conduct an overall assessment of procurement to pay operations and to help Purdue develop a Strategic Sourcing Master Plan. 
About. Strategic sourcing is the collaborative and structured process of critically analyzing an organization’s spending and using this information to make business decisions about acquiring commodities and services more effectively and efficiently. Strategic Sourcing, while managed under the Services Acquisition directorate, can be used on both goods and services that are historically managed at a local level.