Photodisc/ Getty Images. The average hospital stay after a C-section is longer than for a vaginal birth -- four days after a C-section and only two days after a vaginal delivery. 
Yes | No Thank you! Depending on your labor and delivery if everything is all good you could be released at 24 hours and if you had a c section 3 days and the stay at the hospital is usually 2 days depending on your insurance. Yes | No Thank you! I had a vaginal delivery and stayed in the hospital for two days. After that, I took an 8 week maternity leave. The family medical leave act guarantes you 12 weeks of unpaid leave so depending on how much income you can afford to miss, you could take 12 weeks.
After the procedure. After a C-section, most mothers and babies stay in the hospital for two to three days. To control pain as the anesthesia wears off, you might use a pump that allows you to adjust the dose of intravenous (IV) pain medication. Soon after your C-section, you'll be encouraged to get up and walk. 
For a cesarean section delivery, you will stay in the hospital at least three days. A cesarean section is major abdominal surgery, and the recovery process is much more lengthy and much more difficult. 
48 hours after my first two c-sections - 72 hours with my third as I had a chest infection. My two pieces of C-section advice are-actively find out about your pain medicine and take it as often as it is prescribed for the first four days. Get dressed the day after your C-section. Hi, I had a C-section with my boys, please don't worry as long as there are no complications with you or baby, you should be out in a couple of days. I had my twins on the Wednesday morning, by Friday morning after doc's rounds etc, I was told I could go home.
Report Abuse. I had my son by c section almost 5 years ago in scotland. I was told I'd be in for 4-5 days but I went home the day after. I think it depends on how you feel and if you have someone to take care of you at home. Providing there are no complications you shouldn't be in for very long. hi im in scotland and 8 years ago i had a c-section and had to stay in 4-5 days, my friend had one recently and only stayed in 48 hrs which i was shocked at but thats supposedly how long they keep you in for now x. Mum of 3 girls · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Report Abuse. When I has my c-section I had to stay for 3 days. you should find out from your DR why the hospital stay is only 48 hrs and if you are uncomfortable with that then you need to discuss it with the DR. As for me I was glad I had the 3 days. 
But unlike me, if you are planning a C-Section and wondering about how long you’ll be in the hospital, your baby’s care, eating, walking and pain, here’s a sneak peak at what you can expect your hospital stay to be like. You can expect to be in the hospital about 3 days overall. The First Day in Hospital. A lot happens in those first 24 hours of having your C-Section. In fact, At about the 12 hour mark, the nurse will come in and get you up to walk. This is important because walking soon after your procedure reduces the risk of blood clots.
· just now. Report Abuse. i was in hospital for three days after my section i had my son at 38 weeks because it was the only time available to do the planned c section. you could be out of hospital within three days if you are up and about & healing well after having you baby. willow · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 1.
A lot depends on your insurance and your doctor. Most women stay for at least 5 days in the hospital that I work in. We allow the mother to have the baby in the room with her as much as she wants. You will be gotten out of bed as soon as you are able to move after the spinal anesthetic from the c-section. The Hospital needs written consent to give your baby formula. If you have had a C-section you will be in hospital for about 5 days but you will be up and moving around the next day after the c-section. Good luck with it all. Source(s): 19mth old son and 25 weeks preg.