1 Bring to the boil for 2 minutes. 2  Remove from the heat, cover with the lid and let stand for 2 hours before cooking. 3  Slow soak: Add the beans to a saucepan and water, at a ratio of 2-3 cups water per 1 cup dried beans. 4  Place the lid on the saucepan and put into the refrigerator to soak overnight (minimum 8 hours). 1 Cooking time may vary depending on the size and age of the beans, the humidity and other unknowns. 2  Generally, pinto beans require at least 1 1/2 hours and can even take up to 4 hours to fully cook.
Soak most beans in three times their volume of cold water for six hours before cooking. Dried beans are often soaked too long. Most recipes say overnight. The best way is to put them in cold water; bring them gently to a boil and then with saucepan off the heat, allow them to remain in the water for 1 to 2 hours only. Dried Bean Guide Use this guide to gauge how much dried beans to cook. 1/3 cup dry beans = 1 cup cooked beans 1/2 cup dry beans = 1 1/2 cups cooked beans 2/3 cup dry beans = 2 cup cooked beans 1 cup dry beans = 3 cups cooked beans 2 cups (1 pound) dry beans = 6 cups cooked beans.
1 Remove a bean and press it with a fork to see if it mashes well. 2  If it does, the beans are ready. 3  Cooking time may vary depending on the size and age of the beans, the humidity and other unknowns. 4  Generally, pinto beans require at least 1 1/2 hours and can even take up to 4 hours to fully cook. 1 Cooking time may vary depending on the size and age of the beans, the humidity and other unknowns. 2  Generally, pinto beans require at least 1 1/2 hours and can even take up to 4 hours to fully cook.
Soaking your pinto beans overnight is the traditional pre-soak method. 1  Place dry pinto beans in a large pot. 2  Pour enough cold water into the pot to cover beans. 3  Soak overnight or eight hours. 4  Drain beans and rinse with cold water. A quick soak cuts your pre-soak time down significantly, but also requires a little more work on your part. 1  Place dry pinto beans in large pot on stove top. 2  Cover beans with cold water, 6 cups of water to every 2 cups of beans. 3  Bring beans to a boil and cook for 2 minutes to 3 minutes.
Here is my wonderful way of cooking pinto beans. First here are the recipe ingredients that you will need to make a wonderful and tasty pot of o beans:2 cups rinsed pinto beans10 cups water4 cut slices of baconminced garlic to taste (about 4 tbsp)Cooking Instructions:Bring ingredients to rolling boil. I've been cooking pinto beans for over 55 years, long before crock pots were invented. There are two methods I use depending on how big of a hurry you are to dig in. The slow (and best) method is to soak them overnight in enough water to cover plus about two inches.
Transfer the beans to a slow cooker. Add aromatics: Place the aromatics on top of the beans. Cover with water: Pour enough water over the beans to cover them by about 2 inches. Add 1 teaspoon of salt and stir to dissolve. Cook on low for 6 to 8 hours: Cover the pot and cook on low for 6 to 8 hours. If you this is your first time cooking beans or you're cooking an unfamiliar kind of bean, begin checking the beans after 5 hours and then every 30 minutes until they are cooked to your liking. Beans generally finish cooking in 6 to 8 hours
1 Place dry pinto beans in large pot on stove top. 2  Cover beans with cold water, 6 cups of water to every 2 cups of beans. 3  Bring beans to a boil and cook for 2 minutes to 3 minutes. 4  Take beans off heat and let stand covered for one hour. A quick soak cuts your pre-soak time down significantly, but also requires a little more work on your part. 1 
1 Remove from the heat, cover with the lid and let stand for 2 hours before cooking. 2  Slow soak: Add the beans to a saucepan and water, at a ratio of 2-3 cups water per 1 cup dried beans. 3  Place the lid on the saucepan and put into the refrigerator to soak overnight (minimum 8 hours). 1 Cooking time may vary depending on the size and age of the beans, the humidity and other unknowns. 2  Generally, pinto beans require at least 1 1/2 hours and can even take up to 4 hours to fully cook.
1 Quick soak: Place the pinto beans into a saucepan. 2  Fill with 2-3 cups of water per 1 cup dried beans. 3  Bring to the boil for 2 minutes. 4  Remove from the heat, cover with the lid and let stand for 2 hours before cooking. 5  Slow soak: Add the beans to a saucepan and water, at a ratio of 2-3 cups water per 1 cup dried beans. 1 Cooking time may vary depending on the size and age of the beans, the humidity and other unknowns. 2  Generally, pinto beans require at least 1 1/2 hours and can even take up to 4 hours to fully cook.