The United States Brig Niagara in Erie, Pennsylvania is a reconstruction of an early 19th century warship of the United States Navy. On September 10, 1813, nine small ships defeated a British squadron of six vessels in the Battle of Lake Erie. 
Intro. In September of 1813, during the War of 1812, Oliver Hazard Perry of the U.S. Navy and his crew of 557 brave patriots prevailed over the British fleet in the Battle of Lake Erie near Put-in-Bay, Ohio. Birth of the Modern U.S. Navy:  1  Great Britain possessed the greatest navy in the world at the time of the war.  2  During the Battle of Lake Erie, the U.S. Navy battled for and gained supremacy on Lake Erie.  3  Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry’s victory on Lake Erie was key to an American invasion into Upper Canada.
The Battle of Lake Erie. When the War of 1812 began, Oliver Hazard Perry became commander of American forces on Lake Erie, stationed in Presque Isle, now Erie, Pennsylvania. He commissioned the building of nine ships, recruiting shipbuilders, blacksmiths, and other workers from throughout the region
The Battle of Lake Erie, sometimes called the Battle of Put-in-Bay, was fought on 10 September 1813, in Lake Erie off the coast of Ohio during the War of 1812. Nine vessels of the United States Navy defeated and captured six vessels of British Royal Navy. When the war broke out, the British immediately seized control of Lake Erie. They already had a small force of warships there: the sloop-of-war Queen Charlotte and the brig General Hunter. The schooner Lady Prevost was under construction and was put into service a few weeks after the outbreak of war.
Initially, America did not possess the naval power needed to match the British on the Great Lakes. Perry quickly made the necessary arrangements for the construction of a small fleet on Lake Erie. Then on September 10, 1813, the British navy attacked in what became known as the Battle of Lake Erie at Put-In-Bay. Commodore Isaac Chauncey was given command of the naval forces on Lake Erie and Ontario early on in the War of 1812. Chauncey sought a commander for the Lake Erie squadron and Perry was assigned this role in January of 1813. However, he intended to have Perry be his second in command.
Battle of Lake Erie — Battle of the Thames. Throughout 1812 and into 1813, a British squadron led by Commander Robert H. Barclay held control of Lake Erie. Control of the Great Lakes was of paramount importance in the War of 1812.
Publisher. A+E Networks. In the first unqualified defeat of a British naval squadron in history, U.S. Captain Oliver Hazard Perry leads a fleet of nine American ships to victory over a squadron of six British warships at the Battle of Lake Erie during the War of 1812.
Prior to the Battle of Lake Erie. Many years of rugged times characterized the competition between America and British Canada over the old Northwest Territory around the Great Lakes. As a direct result, on June 18, 1812, an unprepared America declared war against the world's most powerful naval power. 
The Battle of Lake Erie between the British Navy and the American fleet had a major impact on the War of 1812. The Americans were able to use the momentum of victory to push remaining British ships out of the Great Lakes, while the Army secured significant victories on land to end the war. 