Begin the process of keeping the top row visible in Excel 2010 by double-clicking the Excel file that you want to open. Additionally, you could launch Excel 2010, click the File tab at the top-left corner of the window, click Open, then browse to the file you want to modify. Click the View tab at the top of the window, then click the Freeze Panes drop-down menu in the Window section of the ribbon at the top of the window. Click the Freeze Top Row option to ensure that the top row remains static at the top of the spreadsheet window. The Freeze First Column option, for example, would keep the leftmost column visible while you scrolled through columns further to the right of your spreadsheet. The Unfreeze panes option will remove any of the locked row or column settings that you have previously defined.
If you no longer want to display the row or column headings on your spreadsheet (these are the letters and numbers at the top and left of the spreadsheet, respectively) then you can remove the check mark in the Headings box in the Show section of the ribbon at the top of the View menu. The Freeze First Column option, for example, would keep the leftmost column visible while you scrolled through columns further to the right of your spreadsheet. The Unfreeze panes option will remove any of the locked row or column settings that you have previously defined.
1 On the View tab, in the Window group, click Freeze Panes, Freeze Panes. 2  Now all rows above Row 2 are frozen and all columns to the left of Column B are frozen. 3  As you Enter the Sales figures, both the Month and the Location remain visible. 1 Press Ctrl + Home to move to cell A1 (the top left corner of your worksheet). 2  Your headings must be visible prior to moving to the next step. 3  On the View tab, in the Window group, click Freeze Panes, Freeze First Column.
1. On the View tab, click Freeze Panes, Freeze Top Row. 2. Scroll down to the rest of the worksheet. Result. Excel automatically adds a black horizontal line to indicate that the top row is frozen. Note: to keep the first column visible while scrolling through the right of the worksheet, click Freeze First Column. To freeze panes, execute the following steps. 1. Select row 3. 2. On the View tab, click Freeze Panes, Freeze Panes. 3. Scroll down to the rest of the worksheet. Result. All rows above row 3 are frozen. Note: to keep columns visible while scrolling to the right of the worksheet, select a column and click Freeze panes.
Thanks. The rule for freezing rows and columns is........... Rows and columns above and left of the selected cell will be frozen. Row 1 and Column A will be frozen. If you select A1 then the freeze line will be at mid-window. 
In our example, you may wish to lock the Months (in Row 2) and the Locations (in Column A). Therefore, as you Enter or Analyze the data, the Month and Location remain visible if you scrolled down or to the right. In order to freeze these rows and column, the Anchor Cell must be Cell B3. 1  Go to the Anchor Cell. 1 Press Ctrl + Home to move to cell A1 (the top left corner of your worksheet). 2  Your headings must be visible prior to moving to the next step. 3  On the View tab, in the Window group, click Freeze Panes, Freeze First Column.
1 Scroll to the top and make sure you see the row with the labels. 2  Otherwise you'll quickly notice one peculiarity-this option does exactly what it promises, it freezes the top visible row. 3  Open the View tab in Excel and find the Freeze Panes option in the Window group. Here is how you do it: 1  This moment is the key-select the cell just below the rows you want to freeze, and to the right of such columns if needed. 2  Open the View tab in Excel and find the Freeze Panes option in the Window group. 3  Click on the little arrow next to it to see all the options, and choose to Freeze Panes.
When you scroll to the right, the headings (Locations, Jan, Feb, Mar, Total) remain visible. 1  Press Ctrl + Home to move to cell A1 (the top left corner of your worksheet). 2  Your headings must be visible prior to moving to the next step. 3  On the View tab, in the Window group, click Freeze Panes, Freeze First Column. 1
1 Click the entire row directly below your row of headings. 2  Select Window, Freeze Panes. 3  Select the entire column immediately to the right of your labels. 4  Select Windows, Freeze Panes. 5  Select the cell immediately below and to the right of your labels (in this example cell B2). 6  Select Windows, Freeze Panes. Now, let's assume you have column headings in Row 1 and row headings in Column 1 and you want to keep both the row and column labels visible as you scroll down and to the right. Select the cell immediately below and to the right of your labels (in this example cell B2).
When you scroll down, the headings (Locations, Jan, Feb, Mar, Total) remain visible. 1  Press Ctrl + Home to move to cell A1 (the top of your worksheet). 2  Your headings must be visible prior to moving to the next step. 3  On the View tab, in the Window group, click Freeze Panes, Freeze Top Row. 1 Press Ctrl + Home to move to cell A1 (the top left corner of your worksheet). 2  Your headings must be visible prior to moving to the next step. 3  On the View tab, in the Window group, click Freeze Panes, Freeze First Column.