When you become a bankrupt some of your assets can be retained because they are protected property and some may be recovered by your trustee and sold. An asset is defined as anything of value you own when you become a bankrupt and anything you buy or receive before the end of your bankruptcy. If you become bankrupt you will be responsible for any debts incurred by you after bankruptcy. More-Page 2 on Bankruptcy. Bankruptcy is a last resort and has serious consequences. Fox Symes is the largest provider of debt solutions to individuals and businesses in Australia.
Insolvency is the state of being unable to pay the money owed, by a person or company, on time; those in a state of insolvency are said to be insolvent. There are two forms: cash-flow insolvency and balance-sheet insolvency. 
Insolvency vs. Bankruptcy. Insolvency is not the same as bankruptcy. Insolvency is a state of economic distress, whereas bankruptcy is a court order that defines how an insolvent debtor will meet his or her obligations and/or have assets liquidated (sold) to pay the creditors. So an individual or company can be insolvent without being bankrupt — especially if the insolvency is temporary and correctable — but not the opposite. However, insolvency can lead to bankruptcy if the insolvent party is unable to successfully address its financial condition.
1 Arrangements under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act avoiding bankruptcy. 2  A person who is insolvent may avoid bankruptcy by reaching an understanding with creditors for the satisfaction of their claims. 3  This can be done by way of a personal insolvency agreement under Part X of the Bankruptcy Act. People who are declared bankrupt are also unable to apply for certain jobs especially when they are un-discharged bankrupts. It's very difficult, for example, to work as a company director and obtain a position in the financial services sector if you are declared bankrupt.
While Bankruptcy can be a necessity it should only ever be considered as a last resort. Bankruptcy carries with it many serious consequences and results, including a possible loss of assets such as your car and home, a negative effect on your credit report and a severe limiting of your access to credit facilities. 
The chance to pay down your debt keeps you in control of your finances and away from having to file for bankruptcy. 2. Sell your property. In a Chapter 7 case--total bankruptcy--your property is put up for review by a trustee, who makes the decision on what to sell or liquidate so your claim can be settled. You can avoid this altogether by being proactive and selling some of your belongings before bankruptcy becomes an option. And if you're in financial trouble, filing for Chapter 7 doesn't have to be your first, or your last choice. There are a few preventive measures and last-ditch moves you can take to avoid bankruptcy and get back in the black ... hopefully, for good. 1. Settle/negotiate your debts. Commonly, Chapter 7 bankruptcy is a liquidation--a wiping clean or erasing of your debt
Bankruptcy offers some people a clean slate, it is by no means an easy solution. Bankruptcy will destroy your credit and may possibly force you to sell your assets. If you want to preserve your credit, you will be much better off if you do whatever you can to avoid bankruptcy. Although bankruptcy offers some people a clean slate, it is by no means an easy solution. 4. Include your mortgage as a debt and the value of your home as an asset. 5. Now break down those debts into good and bad categories. 1  Good debts are home loans and student loans. 2  Bad debts are credit card debts, personal loans, high-rate car loans, and medical bills.
Courts will also monitor their income, restricting a bankrupt's standard of living. Bankruptcy-General Alternatives to Bankruptcy. Avoiding bankruptcy can be achieved in the following ways: 1  Seek the assistance of a Professional Organisation to assist you with a Debt Agreement. 2  The Debt Agreement was designed to be a compromise between creditors and debtors (your creditors and you). People who are declared bankrupt are also unable to apply for certain jobs especially when they are un-discharged bankrupts. It's very difficult, for example, to work as a company director and obtain a position in the financial services sector if you are declared bankrupt.