Oman Facts and Country Information... Oman officially is known as the Sultanate of Oman. It is a country in an Arab world located in Southwest Asia. The nation is surrounded by Saudi Arabia to the west, United Arab Emirates to the northwest and andYemen to the southwest. It shares water boundaries with Pakistan and Iran. 
Map of the United Arab Emirates. The United Arab Emirates is situated in Middle East / southwest Asia, bordering the Gulf of Oman and the Persian Gulf, between Oman and Saudi Arabia; it is on a strategic location along northern approaches to the Strait of Hormuz, a vital transit point for world crude oil. 
Geography. Oman is a 1,000-mile-long (1,700 km) coastal plain at the southeast tip of the Arabian Peninsula lying on the Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman. It is bordered by the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen. The country is the size of Kansas
Oman – Physical geography data. [Translate]. Oman is in south-west Asia, on the south-east coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It borders with United Arab Emirates to the north-west, Saudi Arabia to the west and viagra order uk Yemen to the south west. It has coasts on the Arabian Sea to the south and east, and the Gulf of Oman to the north-east.
It is bordered by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to the northwest, the Republic of Yemen to the southwest and the United Arab Emirates to the north. Oman has 2,092 km (1,300 miles) of coastline on the Gulf, Arabian Sea and the Gulf of Oman. 
Oman is located in the southeastern quarter of the Arabian Peninsula and covers a total land area of 309,500 square kilometers. The land area is composed of varying topographic features: valleys and desert account for 82 percent of the land mass; mountain ranges, 15 percent; and the coastal plain, 3 percent. The sultanate is flanked by the Gulf of Oman, the Arabian Sea, and the Rub' al Khali (Empty Quarter) of Saudi Arabia, all of which contributed to Oman's isolation.
Geography. Oman is located in the southeastern quarter of the Arabian Peninsula and, according to official estimates, covers a total land area of approximately 300,000 square kilometers; foreign observer estimates, however, are about 212,000 square kilometers, roughly the size of the state of Kansas. The northernmost area, Ruus al Jibal, extends from the Musandam Peninsula to the boundary with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) at Hisn al Diba. It borders the Strait of Hormuz, which links the Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman, and is separated from the rest of the sultanate by a strip of territory belonging to the UAE.
Oman Geography. First note that much of Oman's borders with Yemen, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (U.A.E.) are not clearly defined by all parties concerned. The northernmost part of Oman, the Musandam Peninsula, is separated from the rest of the country by a strip of land belonging to the United Arab Emirates .The peninsula is comprised mostly of low hills and mountains.
The northernmost area, Ruus al Jibal, extends from the Musandam Peninsula to the boundary with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) at Hisn al Diba. It borders the Strait of Hormuz, which links the Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman, and is separated from the rest of the sultanate by a strip of territory belonging to the UAE. The sultanate is flanked by the Gulf of Oman, the Arabian Sea, and the Rub' al Khali (Empty Quarter) of Saudi Arabia, all of which contributed to Oman's isolation.