(stē′lē, stēl). stele. n. 1. also ste·la (stē′lə) pl. steles also ste·lae (-lē) An upright stone or slab with an inscribed or sculptured surface, used as a monument or as a commemorative tablet in the face of a building. stele-the usually cylindrical central vascular portion of the axis of a vascular plant. vascular tissue-tissue that conducts water and nutrients through the plant body in higher plants. axis-the main stem or central part about which plant organs or plant parts such as branches are arranged
Noun. 1. stele-the usually cylindrical central vascular portion of the axis of a vascular plant. vascular tissue-tissue that conducts water and nutrients through the plant body in higher plants. axis-the main stem or central part about which plant organs or plant parts such as branches are arranged
A stele (plural steles or stelai, from Greek: στήλη, stēlē) or stela (plural stelas or stelae, stelæ From) latin is a stone or wooden, slab generally taller than it is, wide erected as a, monument very often for funerary or commemorative. purposes The city is now Xi'an and the museum houses the Nestorian stele and nearly 3,000 others. A rubbing of the Stele of Sulaiman, Prince of Xining (1348), bearing the Mani in six languages: Nepali, Tibetan, Uyghur, 'Phags-pa, Tangut, and Chinese.
Definition of STELE. : the usually cylindrical central vascular portion of the axis of a vascular plant. ADVERTISEMENT
A stele is an upright stone monument with inscriptions. The plural of stele is stelae. Stelae were used as grave markers, for dedication, commemoration, and demarcation. They were usually retangles carved in relief. One of the most famous stelae is the diorite stele of the Code of Hammurabi. At the top of this stele, Hammurabi faces the sun god Shamash. Another important stele is the Novilara Stele, which holds a 12-line inscription in the North Picene language.
• STELE (noun). The noun STELE has 2 senses: 1. the usually cylindrical central vascular portion of the axis of a vascular plant. 2. an ancient upright stone slab bearing markings. Familiarity information: STELE used as a noun is rare. 