Grass seed germination always seems to take a long time, especially when you watch it closely. That makes it very disheartening when the results are less than expected. Sometimes people wait two, three, four weeks, but never see any grass. The seed may have failed to germinate. 
Submit. The amount of time needed for grass seed to germinate depends on the type of grass planted. Bluegrass is visible after 20 to 30 days. Bermuda grass sprouts after 10 to 30 days. Rye grass can grow in as little as five days
The germination time for grass seed ranges from 5 to 30 days depending on the variety. It can be even longer than this in cooler temperatures. This is how long it will take to actually see the grass growing. Until this point, the seed, or the soil and mulch in contact with the seed, must stay moist. 
Cool-season grasses tend to germinate quickly, usually between three and 14 days. Perennial rye grass (Lolium perenne), which thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 3 through 8, can germinate in as few as five days, although it can take up to 10 days, for example. Grass seed often begins to germinate in less than a month, which means you should start to see tiny green shoots in the areas you seeded. Establishment of those shoots into a lush, full lawn can take well into the growing season, but it should begin to resemble the lawn you want after you mow it the first time.
The seed of the grass germinates faster with the availability of proper light, water and nutrition of soil. Excess of heat, over irrigation and over-use of pesticides and insecticides may kill the germination. A temperate and warm condition is most favorable for no matter how long does grass seed take to grow. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days.
Bermuda grass seed germinates in 10 to 30 days, depending on soil and weather conditions. Soil temperatures between 65 and 70 degrees F speed germination. 
Cool season grasses tend to take two trends. Some species have evolved to germinate very quickly (5-15 days) during warm spells and establish themselves, like rye grass and fescue. Other species, like bluegrass, germinate slowly (20-30 days) because of the cool temperatures. Warm season grasses tend to take longer to germinate as a whole, between 10 and 30 days. Differing temperatures during spring are responsible for the greater variation in germination time for warm season grasses.
Concerning how long does grass seed take to grow, if the conditions are good and the variety of grass used is of the type that grows fast, within a week’s time the result may be a lush green patch in the lawn. While it may not be properly grown yet the visible result may take about two to three weeks. The normal duration at which the seed of the grass germinates is between 6 to 10 days after the seed has been planted. However it can also take from minimum 4 days to maximum forty days. The climate condition during which the seed is sown is also very essential for the seeds to germinate faster and to grow
How long does it take for grass seed to germinate? (See also How long does it take for seed to grow). Depending on the conditions, you can expect to see some grass seed mixtures germinate quite quickly. If conditions at the time of sowing are perfect, you may see germination is as little as 2-4 days. On average though, germination will take between 7-14 days.