Annual ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) and perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) seeds germinate in five to 10 days. Rough bluegrass (Poa trivialis) seeds take seven to 10 days. Tall fescue (Lolium arundinaceum) seeds germinate in seven to 12 days. Hard fescue (Festuca longifolia) and red fescue (Festuca rubra) seeds take seven to 14 days. Plant 7 to 9 pounds of annual ryegrass seed or 6 to 9 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet in the fall. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
Buffalograss (Stenotaphrum secundatum) seeds take 14 to 30 days to germinate. Plant 1 pound of Bermudagrass seeds per 1,000 square feet in late spring or early summer. For the same area, plant 1 1/2 to 2 pounds of buffalo grass in spring or fall. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
When seeding your lawn you need to be aware of which type of rye you are going to use. The cheapest rye grass seed are the single variety annual types. This type of seed is sold in your nursery or big box for around $20 per 50 lb bag. The annual type works fine but it does not germinate as well as the perennial types. Because of this you will need to seed at a higher rate. 
When you plant grass seeds, it is important to match the grass species to your local climate and plant the seeds at the correct time and rate. To get a rough idea how long for your lawn to get established, add 30 to 45 days to the germination time. Cool Season Long Germination. Colonial bentgrass (Agrostis tenuis) and creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) seeds take 10 to 14 days to germinate. Kentucky bluegrass (Poa pratensis) seeds take 14 to 30 days.
Perennial ryegrass seeds have a very quick germination rate, so if the temperatures are right and the water and seed-soil contact are there, the seeds should germinate within 5 to 10 days. After the seeds have germinated, you can begin watering as deeply and infrequently as possible. 
Water the area three days in a row prior to seeding. Pour ryegrass seed in a seeder. Broadcast annual ryeseed at a rate of 5 to 10 lbs. every 1,000 feet. Perennial ryegrass should be spread at 3 1/2 to 5 lbs. every 1,000 feet. Push the seeds back and forth across the lawn to get an even spread. Cover the ryegrass with 1/8 inch of compost
Establishment. Apply 10 pounds of annual ryegrass seed per 1,000 square feet, and 5 to 15 pounds of perennial ryegrass per 1,000 square feet. Use the higher rate if thicker stands of green grass are desired. Sow half the seed in one direction and the other half in a direction perpendicular to the first. 
Italian ryegrass (Lolium multiflorum) is said to germinate rapidly, usually from 5 to 14 days in good weather and soil conditions, after the time of dormancy: For more details see chapter REGENERATION PROCESSES http://www.fs.fed.us/database/feis/plant... Lolium rigidum, annual ryegrass germination time also depends on temperature, light quality and hydration status, time is from 5 to 14 days on average too. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perennial_r... http://www.ryegrasses.com/seeding/index.... mejxu · 7 years ago.