Class practical. A solution of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) can be made into a slime by adding borax solution, which creates crosslinks between polymer chains. In this activity, some interesting properties of the slime are investigated. Students are guaranteed to enjoy the activities involved.
I'm going to show you how to make your own polymer slime. Slime is fun material that you can make yourself using common household ingredients. The ingredients start out as liquids, but when you mix them together chemical bonds form between the molecules in the slime, forming a substance known as a polymer. 
Toy slime is typically composed of tangled, long-chain polymer molecules. These polymer molecules can be thought of as spaghetti strands. When put together on a plate, the strands are mixed together making a tangled mess. If the strands are rubbed together, they line up and become smoother. While the intermixing of the polymer strands will give some built-in viscosity, a cross-linking agent is also present in slime to give it the non-Newtonian fluid behavior. Cross-linking agents are ions that help temporarily connect polymer strands with relatively weak ionic bonds.
Elmers glue and other comparable school glues are polyvinyl adhesive (PVA). Slime is made by mixing PVA glue with a solution of borax. Slime is a polymer, which is a chemical consisting of large molecules made of a linked series of repeating units called monomers. The polymer slime produced is not as runny as the PVA glue and borax solution used to made the slime. Actually, scientist prefer to use the term viscous instead of “runny.” So, a more scientific description would be:
Background. Slime is a unique play material composed of a cross-linked polymer. It is classified as a liquid and is typically made by combining polyvinyl alcohol solutions with borate ions in a large mixing container. It often has an unpleasant odor, a green color, and is cold and slimy to the touch. While the intermixing of the polymer strands will give some built-in viscosity, a cross-linking agent is also present in slime to give it the non-Newtonian fluid behavior. Cross-linking agents are ions that help temporarily connect polymer strands with relatively weak ionic bonds.
Description. A solution of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) can be made into a slime by adding borax solution, which creates cross-links between polymer chains. In this activity, some interesting properties of the slime are investigated. Students are guaranteed to enjoy the activities involved. A solution of polyvinyl alcohol (PVA) can be made into a slime by adding borax solution, which creates cross
For a different kind of slime, mix white glue (like Elmer's) with cornstarch and water. (White glue contains polyvinyl alcohol, a polymer.) Use four parts glue to one part cornstarch mixed with one part water: combine the water and cornstarch, and then add the glue gradually, stirring well. Polymer Slime. 1. You can make a slimy substance using milk, vinegar, and baking soda. Form solids like you did in the glue project, using seven tablespoons of milk and one tablespoon of white vinegar.
A polymer is a molecule with a lot of neat properties. They often make stretchy materials because the molecules themselves act like stretchy little springs that wind together. You can make a cool polymer slime from simple household materials. Try it! Materials: White glue, such as Elmer’s glue or woodworking glue. Liquid Laundry Starch, such as Sta-Flo brand (laundry aisle of fewer and fewer grocery stores Click here for store locator Click here to purchase online) . Colored Slime: Color your slime with water based colored markers and knead the color throughout them. Polymers are very important molecules and are all around us, even inside us! The basic polymer molecule is a large molecule with repeating chains of chemical units.
Just mix equal parts of glue and water and then add an equal part of liquid starch. Just like that you have gooey slime. The more you play with it the more fun it becomes. This acclivity causes the polymer chains in the glue to cross link with chemicals in the starch. The result is an awesome stretchy slime.
Polyvinyl Alcohol Slime. In this experiment, a polymer (polyvinyl alcohol) chemically reacts with borax to form a crosslinked polymer network. Individual polymer chains are formed by covalent bonds, which are strong bonds. In making slime, the individual polymer chains are bound together by weak hydrogen bonds. 