Commodity played a key role throughout Marx 's work, he considered it a cell-form of capitalism and a key starting point for an analysis of this politico-economic system. The earliest use of the word commodification in English attested in the Oxford English Dictionary dates from 1975.
(third-person singular simple present commodifies, present participle commodifying, simple past and past participle commodified). 1  To make something into a commodity, sometimes at the expense of its intrinsic value.
[+ object] disapproving. : to treat (something that cannot be owned or that everyone has a right to) like a product that can be bought and sold.
Commodification (1975, origins Marxist political theory) is used to describe the process by which something which does not have an economic value is assigned a value and hence how market values can replace other social values.
: to treat (something that cannot be owned or that everyone has a right to) like a product that can be bought and sold.
In contrast, one of the characteristics of a commodity good is that its price is determined as a function of its market as a whole. Well-established physical commodities have actively traded spot and derivative markets. Generally, these are basic resources and agricultural products such as iron ore, sugar, rice.
Turn into or treat as a mere commodity: (as adjective commodified) art has become commodified. More example sentences. 1  He believes that the they are conspiring and commodifying art. 2  Any effort to aestheticize or commodify art is an attempt at censorship.
Commodification is the transformation of goods and services, as well as ideas or other entities that normally may not be considered goods, into a commodity (in the Marxist sense of the word). The Marxist understanding of commodity is distinct from the meaning of commodity in mainstream business theory.
Full Definition of COMMODIFY. transitive verb. : to turn (as an intrinsic value or a work of art) into a commodity. — com·mod·i·fi·ca·tion \-ˌmae-ˌmä-də-fə-ˈkā\ shən. Noun see commodify defined For-english language. learners