Whooping cough (pertussis) is a disease that causes very severe coughing that may last for months. During bursts of violent coughing, you may make a noise that sounds like a whoop when you try to take a breath. You can cough so hard that you hurt a rib. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pertussis, also known as whooping cough or 100-day cough, is a highly contagious bacterial disease. Initially, symptoms are usually similar to those of the common cold with a runny nose, fever, and mild cough. This is then followed by weeks of severe coughing fits
What is whooping cough? Whooping cough, also known as pertussis, is a serious infection that spreads easily from person to person. The infection causes coughing spells so severe that it can be hard to breathe, eat, or sleep. Pertussis can lead to pneumonia or hospitalization.
Pertussis, more commonly known as whooping cough, is caused by a bacterium (germ), Bordetella pertussis, that lives in the mouth, nose and throat. The germ is highly contagious and is easily spread from person-to-person. 
As mentioned before, whooping cough is a bacterial infection caused by Bordetella pertussis. Infection occurs in the lining of the airways, principally in the trachea (the windpipe) as well as the bronchi (airways that branch off from the trachea to the lungs. Symptoms include: In adults and teenagers, whooping cough paroxysmal symptoms are less severe than in babies and young kids-they are usually similar to the symptoms found in bronchitis. In very rare cases, whooping cough can cause sudden unexpected death in babies.
Whooping cough, known medically as Pertussis, is an extremely contagious disease caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. Symptoms include: In adults and teenagers, whooping cough paroxysmal symptoms are less severe than in babies and young kids-they are usually similar to the symptoms found in bronchitis. In very rare cases, whooping cough can cause sudden unexpected death in babies.
Pertussis, or whooping cough, is a disease that affects the lungs. Pertussis bacteria are spread from person to person through the air. A person with pertussis develops a severe cough that usually lasts four to six weeks or longer. Pertussis can be very serious, especially in infants. 
Whooping cough is a highly contagious disease caused by a bacterial infection of the respiratory tract. Whooping cough, also known as pertussis, is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. The hallmark symptoms of whooping cough are violent coughing fits followed by a whooping sound made as a person gasps for air. Whooping cough is highly preventable through vaccination. 