Technically, a sinus infection (sinusitis) is not an infection, but it refers to the inflammation or swelling of the tissues that line the sinuses. Such swelling or inflammation occurs when the sinuses get blocked and filled with fluid (mucus).
Before you ask if sinusitis is contagious, determine what type of sinus infection you have. This will help you in a more important aspect: getting medication. The two types of sinus infection are acute and chronic. Acute sinusitis usually lasts no longer than two months, and does not recur more than three times a year.
Bacterial sinusitis most often occurs as a complication of a viral common cold. Bacteria that are normally present in the nose and throat take advantage of the viral infection to invade the inflamed sinus passages.
Sinus infection can occur after we have suffered a bout of the common cold, viral influenza and hay fever. This is because nasal congestion is the main reason why sinus infection happens. Nasal congestion results when the mucous membranes lining the nose become swollen from blood vessels inflammation.
No one can catch a sinus infection from another person, but the viruses and bacteria that cause colds and other respiratory tract * infections that can trigger sinusitis may spread from person to person in drops of fluid from the nose or mouth.
This way, the question is not whether sinusitis is contagious. The better question to ask is if you are suffering from it. Signs of a Sinus Infection The inflammation of nasal passages that are signs of a sinus infection can also result in headaches, and other facial aches.
Sinus infections usually begin with the symptoms of a cold (for example, a runny nose, occasional cough and/or mild fever), and then develop into pain and pressure in the sinus cavities. About 7 to 10 days after initial cold-like symptoms other symptoms develop that suggest you may have a sinus infection.
A. Viral infections that lead to sinusitis may be contagious; bacterial sinusitis is generally not. It’s important to remember that most viral upper respiratory infections (common colds) cause nasal congestion, which may involve the sinuses.