Yes. In addition to complying with New Jersey laws on security deposit limits and how (and when) the deposit must be returned to tenants, landlords in New Jersey must pay tenants interest earned on security deposits, either in annual interest payments or as credit toward payment of rent due.
When the lender sends you a bill at the end of the year, it's to make up for any potential shortfall in your escrow account based on the tax and insurance bills.
Escrow and Financial Plan Review. 1  DEP Escrow Accounts established pursuant to N.J.S.A. 13:1E-109 as part of the Sanitary Landfill Facility Closure and Contingency Fund Act N.J.S.A 13:1E-100 et. seq. 2  P.L.181, Ch. 306, are to insure the proper closure/post-closure care of landfills.
Does RESPA require borrowers to maintain an escrow account? No. It is the lender's decision whether the borrower must maintain an escrow account for the purpose of paying taxes and other items. The HUD regulations only limit the maximum amount that a lender can require a borrower to maintain in an account.
Section 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) limits the amount of money a lender may require the borrower to hold in an escrow account for payment of taxes, insurance, etc. RESPA also requires the lender to provide initial and annual escrow account statements.
The rules for escrow accounts – which hold money that some mortgage lenders collect every month along with your mortgage payment and saves up to pay your big bills like property taxes and homeowner’s insurance premiums– are changing. Escrows can be an important consumer protection.
Section 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) limits the amount of money a lender may require the borrower to hold in an escrow account for payment of taxes, insurance, etc.
1 DEP Escrow Accounts established pursuant to N.J.S.A. 13:1E-109 as part of the Sanitary Landfill Facility Closure and Contingency Fund Act N.J.S.A 13:1E-100 et. seq. 2  P.L.181, Ch. 306, are to insure the proper closure/post-closure care of landfills.
Meckler said the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) sets limits on the amounts that a lender may require a borrower to put into an escrow account for purposes of paying taxes, hazard insurance and other charges related to the property.