Camels are native to the dry and desert areas of Asia and northern Africa, but are found in other regions as well. They can be found in more than five countries.   In Asia, … they are found in northwestern China, southern Mongolia, Afghanistan, Kazakhstan and even Pakistan. They are found in countries of the Arabian Peninsula, such as Saudi Arabia, Oman, Jordan, Yemen, United Arab Emirates and Qatar, to name a few.
The Bactrian camel (Camelus bactrianus) is a large, even-toed ungulate native to the steppes of Central Asia. Of the two species of camel, it is by far the rarer. The Bactrian camel has two humps on its back, in contrast to the single-humped dromedary camel. Its population of two million exists mainly in the domesticated form. 
Camel are now are found only in arid (desert) regions of Africa, Asia, and Australia. Camels once lived on all continents except Australia and Antarctica. They originated i … n North America but became extinct there about 11,000 years ago. Bactrian or two-humped camels are found in northern India, particularly in the the Nubra Valley and the district (former state) of Bikaner, where they were long used to carry … mounted soldiers as well as supplies.
1 The one-humped camel, or dromedary camel, is found in the Arabian deserts of the Middle East and North Africa, while the two-humped camel, or Bactrian camel, is native to the Gobi Desert in China and the Bactrian steppes of Mongolia. 2  Another camel lives in Australia. 1 Another camel lives in Australia. 2  They are feral, or wild, camels and they were dromedary camels that were imported to provide transportation. 3  They have become a pest because they are eating the natural vegetation.
1 Camels are even-toed ungulates that have one or two humps. 2  The one-humped camel, or dromedary camel, is found in the Arabian deserts of the Middle East and North Africa, while the two-humped camel, or Bactrian camel, is native to the Gobi Desert in China and the Bactrian steppes of Mongolia. 1 Another camel lives in Australia. 2  They are feral, or wild, camels and they were dromedary camels that were imported to provide transportation. 3  They have become a pest because they are eating the natural vegetation.
There are millions of camels living in Africa, most of them can be found in the ten countries that border the Sahara desert, (Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya, Morocco, Mali, Sudan, Niger, Chad, Mauritania, and Western Sahara), as well as Somalia, Somaliland, Ethiopia, Djibouti and Eritrea (in the horn of Africa). 
Camels are mammals with long legs, a big-lipped snout and a humped back. There are two types of camels: dromedary camels, which have one hump, and Bactrian camels, which have two humps. Camels' humps consist of stored fat, which they can metabolize when food and water is scarce. The dromedary camel, also called an Arabian camel, can be found in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bactrian camel lives in Central Asia. No matter the type, camels are usually found in the desert, prairie or steppe.
Passionate about all things Australian. Camels are native to the dry and desert areas of Asia and northern Africa, but are found in other regions as well. They can be found in more than five countries. In Asia, they are found in northwestern China, southern Mongolia, Afghanistan, Kazakhstan and even Pakistan. They are found in countries of the Arabian Peninsula, such as Saudi Arabia, Oman, Jordan, Yemen, United Arab Emirates and Qatar, to name a few. Bactrian or two-humped camels are found in northern India, particularly in the the Nubra Valley and the district (former state) of Bikaner, where they were long used to carry … mounted soldiers as well as supplies.
The two types of camel are found in different parts of the world. The dromedary camel, also called an Arabian camel, can be found in North Africa and the Middle East. The Bactrian camel lives in Central Asia. No matter the type, camels are usually found in the desert, prairie or steppe.
Camel are now are found only in arid (desert) regions of Africa, Asia, and Australia. Camels once lived on all continents except Australia and Antarctica. They originated i … n North America but became extinct there about 11,000 years ago. They can be found in more than five countries.   In Asia, … they are found in northwestern China, southern Mongolia, Afghanistan, Kazakhstan and even Pakistan. They are found in countries of the Arabian Peninsula, such as Saudi Arabia, Oman, Jordan, Yemen, United Arab Emirates and Qatar, to name a few.