X-linked inheritance means that the gene causing the trait or the disorder is located on the X chromosome. Females have two X chromosomes; males have one X and one Y. Genes on the X chromosome can be recessive or dominant. Their expression in females and males is not the same. X-linked Recessive: Red-Green Color Blindness, Hemophilia A. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called X-linked recessive inheritance.
Examples of X-linked recessive conditions include red-green color blindness and hemophilia A: Red-green color blindness. Red-green color blindness simply means that a person cannot distinguish shades of red and green (usually blue-green). Their visual acuity (ability to see) is normal. X-linked Recessive: Red-Green Color Blindness, Hemophilia A. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called X-linked recessive inheritance.
Most color blindness is due to a genetic problem. (See: X-linked recessive) About 1 in 10 men have some form of color blindness. Very few women are color blind. The drug hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil) can also cause color blindness. It is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, among other conditions. 
The most common X-linked recessive disorders are: 1  Red-green color blindness, a very common trait in humans and frequently used to explain X-linked disorders. 2  Between seven and ten percent of men and 0.49% to 1% of women are affected. 3  Its commonness may be explained by its relatively benign nature. 1
One example of an X-linked trait is red-green colorblindness. Let (X c) represent the recessive allele that causes colorblindness and (X +) represent the normal dominant allele. Females that are X + X + or X + X c have normal color vision, while X c X c females are colorblind. Males that are X + Y have normal color vision, while X c Y males are colorblind
Red-green color blindness is an X-linked, recessive trait. In this problem set we will establish the pedigree of Audrei's family and see how the color perception defect is passed on from one generation to the next, but first let's look at a brief introduction to sex-linked inheritance. Barbara, the mother of the seven children, has normal color vision, but Sidney, the father, has the red-green color perception defect. Audrei also has a half brother Stephan. Audrei and Stephan have the same mother, but a different father. Stephan is also red green color blind.
Red-green color blindness. Red-green color blindness simply means that a person cannot distinguish shades of red and green (usually blue-green). Their visual acuity (ability to see) is normal. X-linked recessive: red-green color blindness, Hemophilia A. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called X-linked inheritance.
The most common type of red-green color perception defect is due to a mutation on the X-chromosome (i.e. a red-green color blind allele). X-linked red-color blindness is a recessive trait. Females heterozygous for this trait have normal vision. The color perception defect manifests itself in females only when it is inherited from both parents. Both X-chromosomes must carry the mutant allele for the females to be color blind. Red-green color blind females are homozygous for the recessive allele. Females with one mutant allele and one normal allele are heterozygous carriers. They are not color blind, but they can pass the color blindness to their children