It is always the same little word. That word is the, the most frequently used word in the English language. Obviously, a word used this often must be very important to the speakers of the language. Yet no speaker of English has to study how to use this word in school. The word the is very important to native speakers of English because it is used to divide the world we process through language into two categories: old information and new information. It helps us to divide the world into things which we agree are known, or important, and things which we feel aren't.
When used to introduce a sentence or a clause, the word 'there' is a pronoun. The words 'there is' function as a subject and verb (or auxiliary verb) that introduces a senten … ce or a clause. The pronoun 'who' is a relative pronoun when used to  introduce a relative clause, (a … group of words that includes a verb  but is not a complete sentence).
The pronoun 'who' is an interrogative pronoun when used to  introduce a question.   The pronoun 'who' is a relative pronoun when used to  introduce a relative clause, (a … group of words that includes a verb  but is not a complete sentence). A relative clause gives  information about its antecedent.
However, this approach also has some serious limitations. The definition of a noun as a word denoting a person, place, or thing, is wholly inadequate, since it excludes abstract nouns such as time, imagination, repetition, wisdom, and chance. Similarly, to say that verbs are action words excludes a verb like be, as in I want to be happy. This refers to the fact that the boundaries between the word classes are not absolutely fixed. Many word classes share characteristics with others, and there is considerable overlap between some of the classes. In other words, the boundaries are fuzzy, so different grammars draw them in different places.
Some words can be assigned to a word class on the basis of their form or `shape'. For example, many nouns have a characteristic-tionending: Similarly, many adjectives end in-ableor-ible: Many words also take what are called INFLECTIONS, that is, regular changes in their form under certain conditions. This refers to the fact that the boundaries between the word classes are not absolutely fixed. Many word classes share characteristics with others, and there is considerable overlap between some of the classes. In other words, the boundaries are fuzzy, so different grammars draw them in different places.
noun. the part of a noun group, adjective group, or verb group that comes after the most important word (the head) and adds information about it. For example in the noun group ‘the rules of the game ’, the prepositional phrase ‘of the game ’ is a postmodifier. premodifier. noun. the part of a noun group, adjective group, or verb group that comes before the most important word (the head), and adds information about it. For example in the noun group ‘the best people ’, ‘the’ and ‘ best ’ are premodifiers.
5 This some is not the counting word some, but a word used in place of a/an with the meaning of an indefinite one. eg: Some man came to the house. 6 The possessive 's only functions as a determiner when it is attached to a proper noun. The word the is very important to native speakers of English because it is used to divide the world we process through language into two categories: old information and new information. It helps us to divide the world into things which we agree are known, or important, and things which we feel aren't.
Adverb. An adverb is a word that’s used to give information about a verb, adjective, or other adverb. They can make the meaning of a verb, adjective, or other adverb stronger or weaker, and often appear between the subject and its verb (She nearly lost everything. ). Read more about adverbs. 
Best Answer: Is is a verb because it's from the form to be. For example: Alex IS mean. (In other words, it's saying that Alex is BEING a mean person.) And being something is an action. This Site Might Help You. RE: What type of word is &quot;is&quot;? I mean words such as &quot;table&quot; are nouns, and &quot;fat&quot; - adjectives, what category does &quot;is&quot; fall under?
The noun 'life' is a singular,  common, abstract  noun; a word for the period between the birth and  death of a person or thing.    The word 'life' is also an adject … ive, a word that describes a noun  (life saver). The pronoun 'who' is a relative pronoun when used to  introduce a relative clause, (a … group of words that includes a verb  but is not a complete sentence).