the transmission of impulses along motor nerves to skeletal muscle. motor unit. includes the motor neuron, neuromuscular junction, and the myofibrils innervated by the neuron. motor unit action potential. the electrical activity of voluntary muscle contractions recorded by needle electromyography. The number of muscle fibres in a single motor unit ranges from about 10 to 2000: fewest in small muscles where the control is finest (e.g. for eye and finger movements) and most in large muscles (e.g. quads) designed for force rather than precision. See also muscle, neuromuscular junction.
Noun. 1. motor neuron-a neuron conducting impulses outwards from the brain or spinal cord. efferent neuron, motoneuron, motor nerve fiber. nerve cell, neuron-a cell that is specialized to conduct nerve impulses. efferent, efferent nerve, motor nerve-a nerve that conveys impulses toward or to muscles or glands. motor neuron. (or motoneuron) A nerve cell that carries messages from the central nervous system to a muscle or gland. See efferent.
mo·tor. 1. In anatomy and physiology, denoting neural structures, that because of the impulses generated and transmitted by them, cause muscle fibers or pigment cells to contract or glands to secrete. See also: motor cortex, motor endplate, motor neuron. 2. n the entity consisting of the lower motor neuron, motor end-plate, and muscle fibers supplied by the end-plate. The final motor activity resulting from a sequence of stimulations to the lower motor neuron is considered a function of the motor unit.
A motor neuron (or motoneuron) is a nerve cell (neuron) whose cell body is located in the spinal cord and whose fiber (axon) projects outside the spinal cord to directly or indirectly control effector organs, mainly muscles and glands. Types of motor neurons are alpha motor neurons, beta motor neurons, and gamma motor neurons. There are upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons, with the cell type described above being a lower motor neuron.
mo·tor u·nit. A single somatic motor neuron and the group of muscle fibers innervated by it. a single motor neuron and the skeletal muscle fibres that it innervates and so controls, all of which must respond, virtually simultaneously, to an action potential in the nerve axon. The number of muscle fibres in a single motor unit ranges from about 10 to 2000: fewest in small muscles where the control is finest (e.g. for eye and finger movements) and most in large muscles (e.g. quads) designed for force rather than precision. See also muscle, neuromuscular junction.
motor unit, n the entity consisting of the lower motor neuron, motor end-plate, and muscle fibers supplied by the end-plate. The final motor activity resulting from a sequence of stimulations to the lower motor neuron is considered a function of the motor unit.
Motor neurons' axons are efferent nerve fibers that carry signals from the spinal cord to the effectors to produce effects. Types of motor neurons are alpha motor neurons, beta motor neurons, and gamma motor neurons. There are upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons, with the cell type described above being a lower motor neuron. Upper motor neurons are cortico-spinal interneurons that arise from the motor cortex and descend to the spinal cord where they activate the lower motor neurons through synapse
motor, n pertaining to a muscle, nerve, or center that produces or affects movement. motor neuron, n one of the various efferent nerve cells that transmit nerve impulses from the brain or from the spinal cord to muscular or glandular tissue. n the entity consisting of the lower motor neuron, motor end-plate, and muscle fibers supplied by the end-plate. The final motor activity resulting from a sequence of stimulations to the lower motor neuron is considered a function of the motor unit.
A motor unit is made up of a motor neuron and the skeletal muscle fibers innervated by that motor neuron's axonal terminals. Groups of motor units often work together to coordinate the contractions of a single muscle; all of the motor units within a muscle are considered a motor pool. All muscle fibers in a motor unit are of the same fiber type. When a motor unit is activated, all of its fibers contract.