A New Way to Accurately Measure Color. TRICOR's Model 600 Imaging Spectrophotometer is an exciting new product for measuring color. Unlike other imaging colorimeters, the Model 600 can be used to measure radiated sources, reflectance as well as transmittance from 380nm to 780nm. 
In chemistry, spectrophotometry is the quantitative measurement of the reflection or transmission properties of a material as a function of wavelength. A double beam spectrophotometer compares the light intensity between two light paths, one path containing a reference sample and the other the test sample. A single-beam spectrophotometer measures the relative light intensity of the beam before and after a test sample is inserted.
A spectrophotometer measures the intensity of a light beam before and after it passes through a sample and compares these two intensities. The Spec 20 reports two types of measurements: percent transmittance and absorbance. Percent transmittance is the ratio of the intensity of the light passing through the sample to the intensity of the light shining on the sample multiplied by 100%. Absorbance is the log of the transmittance. The Spec 20 can measure absorbance and transmittance over a range of wavelenghts. You must select a wavlength and calibrate the instrument at that wavelength before making any measurements.
The instrument used in ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy is called a UV/V is spectrophotometer. It measures the intensity of light passing through a sample (I), and compares it to the intensity of light before it passes through the sample (I o). 
An example of an experiment in which spectrophotometry is used is the determination of the equilibrium constant of a solution. A certain chemical reaction within a solution may occur in a forward and reverse direction where reactants form products and products break down into reactants. A double beam spectrophotometer compares the light intensity between two light paths, one path containing a reference sample and the other the test sample. A single-beam spectrophotometer measures the relative light intensity of the beam before and after a test sample is inserted.
A spectrophotometer is an instrument which is used to measure the intensity of electromagnetic radiation at different wavelengths. Important features of spectrophotometers are spectral band with and the range of absorption or reflectance measurement. Spectrophotometry is a quantitative measurement of the reflection or transmission properties of a material as a function of wavelength. It is more specific than the common term electromagnetic spectroscopy which deals with visible light near ultraviolet and near infra-red.
A spectrophotometer is an instrument that can pass light of a single wavelength through a solution and measure the amount that passes through. First, the spectrophotometer must be zeroed by passing light of the chosen wavelength (500 nm for example) through a blank containing only the solvent. A spectrophotometer can be set to measure either the percent transmittance or the absorbance of a solution. In lab, you will be using a spectrophotometer called the Spectronic 20 or Spec 20 to measure absorbance.
A spectrophotometer is one of the scientific instruments commonly found in many research and industrial laboratories. Spectrophotometers are used for research in physics, molecular biology, chemistry, and biochemistry labs. They measure the absorbance, which is known as the optical density (OD), on a spectrophotometer. One can tell from the OD whether the bacteria are actively dividing or whether they are starting to die. Spectrophotometers use a light source to shine an array of wavelengths through a monochromator. This device then transmits a narrow band of light, and the spectrophotometer compares the light intensity passing through the sample to that passing through a reference compound