NORMAL BLOOD VESSELS. There are many different types of blood vessels in the body. ● Arteries are part of the large system of blood vessels that delivers blood throughout the body. This includes large-and medium-sized arteries and smaller arterial branches (arterioles).
When such inflammation occurs, it causes changes in the walls of blood vessels, such as weakening and narrowing that can progress to the point of blood vessel blockage. A result of vasculitis is that the tissues and organs supplied by affected blood vessels do not get enough blood.
Although it is unknown what causes most types of vasculitis, immune system abnormality, inflammation of blood vessels, and genetic factors appear to be somewhat important in the cause of the disease. Vasculitis can also be caused by an immune or allergic reaction in the vessel walls.
“ Angiitis ” and “ Arteritis ” are both synonyms for vasculitis, literally meaning “inflammation within blood vessels” or “inflammation in arteries.” Because there are so many types of vasculitis, the group is sometimes referred to in the plural: vasculitides (pronounced “vas que lit’ i deez”).
Vasculitis (vas-kyu-LI-tis) is a condition that involves inflammation in the blood vessels. The condition occurs if your immune system attacks your blood vessels by mistake. This may happen as the result of an infection, a medicine, or another disease or condition.
Inflammation may involve pain, redness, warmth, swelling, and loss of function in the affected tissues. In vasculitis, inflammation can lead to serious problems. Complications depend on which blood vessels, organs, or other body systems are affected.
Vasculitis means inflammation of the blood vessels, arteries, veins or capillaries. When such inflammation occurs, it causes changes in the walls of blood vessels, such as weakening and narrowing that can progress to the point of blood vessel blockage.
Vasculitis is an inflammation of the blood vessels. Blood vessels are the veins and arteries that carry blood around the body including the brain. So CNS vasculitis is an inflammation of blood vessels in the brain. Inflammation (irritation and swelling) is a normal process.