It was a word made up by the creator of the Smurfs (Pierre Culliford) to refer to something that he had temporarily forgotten the name for (in that particular case, salt) but the idea was that the name Schtroumpf or Smurf could be used in place of any word which had been forgotten. For example, jokey smurf tells jokes handy smurf is handy Hansom smurf is of course hansom. So on and so on.there are 101 smurfs that live in smurf village. In smurf land the word smurf can be a adjective and a verb.
The Smurfs was first created and introduced as a series of comic characters by the Belgian comics artist Peyo (pen name of Pierre Culliford) in 1958, where they were known as Les Schtroumpfs. Schtroumpf is pronounced like the German word Strumpf meaning sock. However, according to Peyo, original author of the original Smurfs comic strip, the original term and the accompanying language of the Smurfs came during a meal he was having with his colleague and friend Andre André franquin at The Belgian. coast
The Smurfs are little blue cartoon caracters with white hats. They live in forest. Their leader is Papa Smurf and enemy Gargamel. Every Smurf has name and typical role. Smurfs … are little blue people who live in a hidden village in the forest. Each one has a role.   For example, jokey smurf tells jokes handy smurf is handy Hansom smurf is of course hansom. So on and so on.there are 101 smurfs that live in smurf village. In smurf land the word smurf can be a adjective and a verb.
Papa Smurf: Papa Smurf is the leader of the Smurfs, and the only Smurf who wears red. Papa Smurf brings the Smurfs to safety in times of danger and crisis. Everyone in Smurf Village turns to Papa Smurf when things go awry. Papa is always busy making magical spells and potions in his laboratory. Grandpa Smurf: The oldest of all the Smurfs, Grandpa returned to the Smurf Village after a five hundred-year absence. Grandpa is energetic and rambunctious, wears a yellow hat and pants, reading glasses, and carries a cane. Nanny Smurf: Nanny is a nanny to the Smurfs (as her name implies). She has a pet named Smoogle.
Plot Summary | Plot Synopsis. When the evil wizard Gargamel chases the tiny blue Smurfs out of their village, they tumble from their magical world and into ours -- in fact, smack dab in the middle of Central Park. 
About The Smurfs 2. Evil wizard Gargamel creates a couple of mischievous Smurf-like creatures called the Naughties hoping they will let him harness the magical Smurf-essence. However, he soon discovers that he needs the help of Smurfette, who knows the secret to turning the Naughties into real Smurfs. 
The Smurfs (French: Les Schtroumpfs) (Dutch: De Smurfen) is a Belgian comic and television franchise centered on a fictional colony of small blue creatures who live in mushroom-shaped houses in the forest. Schtroumpf is pronounced like the German word Strumpf meaning sock. However, according to Peyo, original author of the original Smurfs comic strip, the original term and the accompanying language of the Smurfs came during a meal he was having with his colleague and friend Andre André franquin at The Belgian. coast
In the comic, he is an anonymous smurf. When Papa Smurf leaves the village on a long journey, the Smurfs hold an election to selecte his temporary replacement. King Smurf beats Brainy 96 to 2. However, his rule turns into a tyrannical one and conflict results which only ends with Papa Smurf's return. Architect Smurf is the Smurfs' residential architect. He designs all the mushroom houses of the Smurf village. In the cartoon, Architect burned out on designing only mushroom houses and built a skyscraper to replace the village. After a fire burns the skyscraper down, the Smurfs move back into
Note that Smurfette isn't the only female Smurf. In fact, there are three of them! The other two are Sassette Smurfling and Nanny Smurf. Oh, they may be Smurfs to you and me, but they're called schluempfe schlümpfe In, germany toerpoek Törpök, in hungary Sumaafu, in japan Smerfy in poland and Pitufos. in spain The Smurfs celebrated their 50th birthday (or rather, smurfday) a couple of days ago-and that inspired Neatorama to smurf up some fascinating facts about the little blue creatures. Here are ten of the smurfiest facts about The Smurfs: