The track currently hosts the NASCAR series such as the Sprint Cup Series, Xfinity Series, and the Camping World Truck Series. Talladega is the longest NASCAR oval with a length of 2.66-mile-long (4 km) tri-oval like the Daytona International Speedway, which also is a 2.5-mile-long (4 km) tri-oval. The track would be named Alabama International Motor Speedway (AIMS) . The name would remain for twenty years until 1989 when the facility's name was changed to Talladega Superspeedway. The track opened on September 13, 1969 costing $4 million.
Dale Earnhardt Jr. wins at Talladega: #88-Dale Earnhardt Jr. won the GEICO 500 Sprint Cup Series race at Talladega Superspeedway for his 1st win of the season, 6th win at Talladega and his 24th career win. Prior to the start of the GEICO 500 at Talladega Superspeedway, NASCAR's mammoth palace of speed, Freeze will lead the 43-driver starting grid around the track's 33-degree banked turns in the track's Official Ford Mustang Pace Car.
GEICO's Gecko Talladega Superspeedway, new title sponsor: Officials from GEICO and Talladega Superspeedway announced that the fall NASCAR Sprint Cup Series race on Sunday, Oct. 19, at NASCAR's Most Competitive track will be known as the GEICO 500. Prior to the start of the GEICO 500 at Talladega Superspeedway, NASCAR's mammoth palace of speed, Freeze will lead the 43-driver starting grid around the track's 33-degree banked turns in the track's Official Ford Mustang Pace Car.
Talladega Superspeedway. This website is an online resource for Nascar enthusiasts, so if you have a great picture of Talladega Superspeedway, send it to us for inclusion here. Talladega Superspeedway is located in Talladega, Alabama. At 2.66 miles (4.28 km) long, Talladega is the largest oval track in the Sprint Cup Series Series and can seat over 175,000 fans. 1 Talladega Superspeedway’s infield is 212 acres and has reserved zones for all types of vehicles to spend the weekend. 2  Seating in the infield is not available, so guests are encouraged to bring chairs and blankets.
Big, fast and-sometimes-mean. If stock-car racing is an extreme sport, Talladega Superspeedway is undoubtedly its most extreme venue. Nowhere else is the competition closer. Nowhere are NASCAR’s best drivers pushed closer to the edge. His most memorable Talladega Superspeedway win came in 2000, when he came from 18th with less than five laps left to score what would be his final Cup victory. More than 145,000 reserved seat tickets are available for fans coming to Talladega Superspeedway.
TALLADEGA, Ala. – A quick recap of all the action and a look at the results from Sunday's GEICO 500 at Talladega Superspeedway: WINNER: Dale Earnhardt Jr. won his sixth Sprint Cup race at Talladega Superspeedway. He ran the last several laps with trash on his grille, which caused his water temperature to go up and light his gauge red. It's his sixth win at the restrictor-plate track and probably earns him a Chase berth. Fans at Talladega Superspeedway greet Dale Earnhardt Jr. during driver introductions.
Cary Estes, Birmingham, Alabama. Talladega Superspeedway, located in east central Alabama, is the largest race track in the National Association for Stock Car Racing (NASCAR) and typically produces the fastest race speeds in the NASCAR circuit. The facility opened the following year as the Alabama International Motor Speedway and adopted the name Talladega Superspeedway in 1989. The track's first race, the Bama 400, was held on September 13, 1969, in NASCAR's second-tier Grand Touring circuit, with Ken Rush winning the event.
Talladega Superspeedway, originally known as Alabama International Motor Superspeedway (AIMS) , is a motorsports complex located north of Talladega, Alabama. It is located on the former Anniston Air Force Base in the small city of Lincoln. The track would be named Alabama International Motor Speedway (AIMS) . The name would remain for twenty years until 1989 when the facility's name was changed to Talladega Superspeedway. The track opened on September 13, 1969 costing $4 million.
Earnhardt, Jr., who went to Gatorade Victory Lane in the GEICO 500 at NASCAR's Most Competitive track-Talladega Superspeedway-in May, claimed his second dramatic victory of the year last night at Daytona International Speedway in the Coke Zero 400 Powered by Coca-Cola. Prior to the start of the GEICO 500 at Talladega Superspeedway, NASCAR's mammoth palace of speed, Freeze will lead the 43-driver starting grid around the track's 33-degree banked turns in the track's Official Ford Mustang Pace Car.
He would end up breaking ground on an old airfield on May 23, 1968. The track would be named Alabama International Motor Speedway (AIMS) . The name would remain for twenty years until 1989 when the facility's name was changed to Talladega Superspeedway. The track opened on September 13, 1969 costing $4 million.