Thank you... Transcription is the process through which a DNA sequence is enzymatically copied by an RNA polymerase to produce a complementary RNA. Or, in other words, the transfer of genetic information from DNA into RNA. Prokaryotic transcription occurs in the cytoplasm alongside translation. 
In transcription, the codons of a gene are copied into messenger RNA by RNA polymerase.This RNA copy is then decoded by a ribosome that reads the RNA sequence by base-pairing the messenger RNA to transfer RNA, which carries amino acids. Enzymes Required. DNA Helicase, DNA Polymerase. Replication is the duplication of two-strands of DNA. Transcription is the formation of single, identical RNA from the two-stranded DNA. Enzymes. The two strands are separated and then each strand's complementary DNA sequence is recreated by an enzyme called D
DNA replication is the process of DNA being copied to make more DNA. Transcription is the process of DNA being read and RNA being made based on that particular DNA strand. Translation is taking the RNA just made and using it to make a protein. One DNA strand can make as many copies of RNA as it needs, and one RNA strand can make as many proteins as it needs
DNA replication is the process by wich one double helix of DNA is dublicated into two identical double helices which are also identical to the mother DNA. The process is carri … ed by specific enzymes. RNA transcription is the process by which a messanger RNA copy of the active strand of a DNA helix is made. 
Transcription is the process by which DNA is copied (transcribed) to mRNA, which carries the information needed for protein synthesis. Transcription takes place in two broad steps. First, pre-messenger RNA is formed, with the involvement of RNA polymerase enzymes. The mechanism of transcription has parallels in that of DNA replication. As with DNA replication, partial unwinding of the double helix must occur before transcription can take place, and it is the RNA polymerase enzymes that catalyze this process.
In transcription, or RNA synthesis, the codons of a gene are copied into messenger RNA by RNA polymerase. As opposed to DNA replication, transcription results in an RNA complement that includes uracil (U) in all instances where thymine (T) would have occurred in a DNA complement. Replication is the duplication of two-strands of DNA. Transcription is the formation of single, identical RNA from the two-stranded DNA. Enzymes. The two strands are separated and then each strand's complementary DNA sequence is recreated by an enzyme called D
DNA Replication. DNA replication is the process of copying the DNA in a cell so that there are two copies. This is done in preparation for cell division, or mitosis. Before a cell divides, the DNA must be copied so that there is a copy for each of the resulting daughter cells. Similarities. Both DNA replication and transcription involve binding complementary nucleic acids to DNA, yielding a new strand of either DNA or RNA. Both processes can lead to errors if an incorrect nucleotide is incorporated.
Transcription. Transcription involves copying DNA into RNA. The portion of the DNA that codes for genes is transcribed, or copied, into messenger RNA, known as mRNA. The first step in the process is the unwinding and separation of the two strands of the DNA helix. Similarities. Both DNA replication and transcription involve binding complementary nucleic acids to DNA, yielding a new strand of either DNA or RNA. Both processes can lead to errors if an incorrect nucleotide is incorporated.
DNA replication is the process by wich one double helix of DNA is dublicated into two identical double helices which are also identical to the mother DNA. The process is carri … ed by specific enzymes. RNA transcription is the process by which a messanger RNA copy of the active strand of a DNA helix is made. 
Transcription and DNA replication both involve making copies of the DNA in a cell. Transcription copies the DNA into RNA, while replication makes another copy of DNA. Similarities. Both DNA replication and transcription involve binding complementary nucleic acids to DNA, yielding a new strand of either DNA or RNA. Both processes can lead to errors if an incorrect nucleotide is incorporated.