Glogster encourages interactive, collaborative education and digital literacy. Today, the platform is mainly used by educators and students. It has grown into a worldwide community of over 19 million users, who have created over 25 million educational glogs, out of 45 million total glogs on the service. Glogster was launched in 2009 and is based in Prague and Boston.
Glog may refer to: 1  group logiStiCs (www.glog.com.au) which is a group of companies based in South Australia (including grape logiStiCs (www.grapelogistics.com.au)) which are viticultural, agricultural and logistical service providers. 2  a graphics blog or graphical blog; online rich media poster. 1 group logiStiCs (www.glog.com.au) which is a group of companies based in South Australia (including grape logiStiCs (www.grapelogistics.com.au)) which are viticultural, agricultural and logistical service providers. 2  a graphics blog or graphical blog; online rich media poster. 3  Mulled wine, also called Gloegg.  glögg
The Glog interface incorporates a built-in browser known as the Web picker, allowing users to search for media directly from the app, and drag it onto their glog canvas. The app is also synced with the iPad’s built-in camera and mic, allowing users to record video, audio and photos directly onto their glogs. It has grown into a worldwide community of over 19 million users, who have created over 25 million educational glogs, out of 45 million total glogs on the service. Glogster was launched in 2009 and is based in Prague and Boston.
Glogster is a revolutionary way of expressing your moods, feelings, and ideas. Creating a Glog lets you express all those things you can’tput in words. Choose a background, throw in some graphics from our galleries, add text, your own videos, photos, and music, and there you go! A Glogmasterpiece. 1 The easiest way to share a Glog is by using the “Share Glog” function. 2  The Share button above your Glog allows you to post your Glog on Facebook, Twitter, or Google+. 3  The button also allows you to send the Glog to your friends via email. 4  Click the Like button to Like your Glog on Glogster, Facebook, or +1 on Google+.
Jan McGee. Follow. A glog is like a poster, only better. A glog is an online poster that allows students to add images, video files, sound files, text, and hyperlinks. Glogs address multiple learning styles and easily incorporate student research and educational content into a web publication. They are free, use no ink, and are fun! 
A glog is a digital poster that allows you to import pictures, video, sound, and much more........ 1. Set up a teacher account for yourself. 2. Check the student's account area to create student Glog accounts.....up to 200. Make sure you have extras. 3. Login to comment on this Glog. There are no comments for this Glog. Glogpedia contains a selection of glogs which are qualified to be used for K-12 education. Therefore, only glogs which represent valuable content, a great use of media, and are clearly structured, will be accepted.
Comments. Login to comment on this Glog. There are no comments for this Glog. Glogpedia contains a selection of glogs which are qualified to be used for K-12 education. Therefore, only glogs which represent valuable content, a great use of media, and are clearly structured, will be accepted. Tags: Glogster, story, glogster is yours, glog, glogging, passion, emotion, teens, students, teachers, librarian, phenomenon, fun, creative, expression, art, multimedia, online, digital, poster.