A mountain range is a group or chain of mountains that are close together. Mountain ranges are usually separated from other mountain ranges by passes and rivers. 
The highest point is called the peak or summit. Most geologists classify a mountain as a landform that rises at least 1,000 feet (300 meters) or more above its surrounding area. A mountain range is a series or chain of mountains that are close together. The world's tallest mountain ranges form when pieces of Earth's crust—called plates—smash against each other, in a process called plate tectonics, and buckle up like the hood of a car in a head-on collision. 
Description. A mountain range is a linear arrangement of mountain peaks and ridges surrounded by adjacent lower land or clearly separated from adjacent ranges by intervening valleys. The mountains of a range are commonly related to a single geological structure or rock formation. Mountain Range. Mountain ranges generally belong to the same geological structure, and consist of a series of peaks and ridges surrounded by lowlands and valleys. There are many mountain ranges in Canada, including the Rocky Mountains, the St. Elias Mountains and the Laurentian Mountains.
A mountain range (mountain chain, mountain belt) is a geographic area with many mountains. A 'mountain system' or 'system of mountain ranges' includes geological features that are in the same region as a mountain range. Mountain ranges usually include highlands or mountain passes and valleys. Individual mountains in the same range do not always have the same geology or petrology. Mountain ranges outside of these two systems include the Arctic Cordillera, the world's northernmost mountain system. If the definition of a mountain range includes underwater mountains, then the ocean ridges form the longest continuous mountain system on Earth, with a length of 65,000 kilometres (40,400 mi).
The Teton Range is a mountain range of the Rocky Mountains in North America. A north-south range, it is mostly on the Wyoming side of the state’s border with Idaho, just south of Yellowstone National Park. 
Confidence votes 11. A mountain range is a single mass of mountains or narrowly space mountain ridges with or without peaks. The mountains within the range are generally closely related in position, direction, formation, and age; a component part of a mountain system or of a mountain chain. A mountain range is a single mass of mountains or narrowly space mountain ridges with or without peaks. The mountains within the range are generally closely related in positio … n, direction, formation, and age; a component part of a mountain system or of a mountain chain. 3 people found this useful. Answered.
A mountain is a large landform that stretches above the surrounding land in a limited area, usually in the form of a peak. A mountain is generally steeper than a hill. Mountains are formed through tectonic forces or volcanism. The highest mountain on Earth is Mount Everest in the Himalayas of Asia, whose summit is 8,850 m (29,035 ft) above mean sea level.
A mountain range is a series of mountains that are connected together generally to form a long line of mountains. Large mountain ranges may be made up of smaller mountain ranges called subranges. For example, the Smokey Mountain Range is part of the Appalachian Mountain Range. It is a subrange of the Appalachians. The tallest mountain range in the world is the Himalayas and the longest is the Andes. Himalayas. The Himalayas stretch 1,491 miles through much of central Asia. They travel from Afghanistan and Pakistan through India, Nepal, and China all the way to Bhutan.