The earliest settlers who made their homes in the wilderness were known as pioneers. Many pioneers of Upper Canada came from France, England, Scotland, Italy, Germany and other countries in Europe. Some settlers went to other parts of North America and later moved into Upper Canada. They came to Upper Canada for many reasons. Some came so they could freely practice their religion
The first large wagon train of pioneers bound for Oregon was in 1843. The last wagon trains came in the 1880's, when other methods of transportation (such as railroads) were developed in the West. Oxen were used because they could pull heavy loads. Oxen could survive on eating the grass along the way. 
Life was hard but farmers lived on hope.. When the pioneers sat down for dinner, the adults ate before the children. Pioneers came to the new lands because they could get free land from the government and make a life of their own. IMPROVED ANSWER:   The stories of the pioneers is an exciting and thrilling tale of men and women who pushed America's frontier from the … Appalachian Mountains to the Pacific Ocean.
But the real heroes of the frontier were thousands of pioneers who never became famous. Their courage and hard work tamed a wilderness, and made way for the new nation.   From about 1760 to 1850, the settlers moved westward in two big migrations. IMPROVED ANSWER:   The stories of the pioneers is an exciting and thrilling tale of men and women who pushed America's frontier from the … Appalachian Mountains to the Pacific Ocean.
Despite unknowns, pioneers came Hang up the fiddle and the bow; Get down the shovel and the hoe!. Ouachita Mountain Neighbor, Mena, Ark., Aug. 24, 1993, article by Cleo Tucker. There was a time in the beginning of pioneer days when the settlers began their migration from Georgia, Virginia, Tennessee, Missouri and Kentucky to the Ouachitas.
In the years to come, pioneers came to call the route the Oregon Trail. In 1842, a slightly larger group of 100 pioneers made the 2,000-mile journey to Oregon. The next year, however, the number of emigrants skyrocketed to 1,000. A massive wagon train, made up of 1,000 settlers and 1,000 head of cattle, sets off down the Oregon Trail from Independence, Missouri. Known as the “Great Emigration,” the expedition came two years after the first modest party of settlers made the long, overland
IMPROVED ANSWER: The stories of the pioneers is an exciting and thrilling tale of men and women who pushed America's frontier from the Appalachian Mountains to the Pacific Ocean. There were many famous frontiersmen, among them Daniel Boone, Kit Carson, and Davy Crockett. Pioneers came to the new lands because they could get free land from the government and make a life of their own. 3 people found this useful. Don Dfoofnik. 1,118,186 Contributions. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong.
The first forty-eight pioneers included the following men. This group of pioneers arrived on April 7, 1788, except for Col. Meigs, who arrived several days later on April 12, 1788, and Anselm Tupper, who arrived on April 25, according to Rufus Putnam's journal. During 1788 these pioneers to the Ohio Country established Marietta, Ohio as the first permanent American settlement of the new United States in the Northwest Territory, and opened the westward expansion of the new country.
Search billions of records on Ancestry.com. Back How Early Pioneers Lived More than 140 years ago in 1817 the first tracts of land to be cleared of the forests were near Middle Grove in Monroe County, which was still a part of Pike, Randolph and Rails counties. 