If you meet the above eligibility requirements you may take or mail the following documents and a $15.00 administrative fee to the nearest TxDMV Regional Service Center: 1  A Statement of Fact for Bonded Title (Form VTR-130-SOF). 2  A Statement of Physical Inspection (Form VTR-270). If you receive incomplete or incorrect evidence of ownership or have lost the evidence of ownership and cannot contact the seller for the necessary documentation, you may have the option of using the bonded title procedure to transfer of ownership. Here are the steps to do so
3- Apply for a Bonded Title. Within 30 days of purchasing the surety bond, take the original letter given to you by the Regional Service Center and the documents listed in Step 1, to your county tax office, in addition to: 1  Completed Application for Texas Certificate of Title Form 130-U. If you receive incomplete or incorrect evidence of ownership or have lost the evidence of ownership and cannot contact the seller for the necessary documentation, you may have the option of using the bonded title procedure to transfer of ownership. Here are the steps to do so
Step 3: Apply for a bonded title. Within 30 days from purchasing the surety bond, take the original letter given to you by the Regional Office and the documents listed above, to your county tax office, in addition to: 1  a completed Form VTR 130-U. 2  proof of insurance. To determine your eligibility for the bonded title procedure and the value of the bond, take or mail the following documents to your Vehicle Titles and Registration (VTR) Division Regional Office 1  : A Statement of Fact for Bonded Title (VTR-130-SOF),
A bonded title is a notation on a title document, as well as on the motor vehicle records, which indicates that a Certificate of Title Surety Bond has been surrendered in support of the application for title. The bond is issued in the title applicant's name, for a three-year period. The bond is required by statute in cases where proper ownership documents are unavailable. Purpose of a bonded title is to protect previous and future owners of the vehicle, as well as lien holders, from potential claims. The purchaser must then go to any Montgomery County Tax Office location and file the title application. Proof of current insurance will be required. The fee is $33, plus motor-vehicle sales tax (6.25 percent). There is also a $2.50 transfer fee.
To remove the lien information, fill out a Title Application Form (130-U). Submit the application, title and a release of lien to the Montgomery County Tax Office. The fee for this service is $33.00. The State of Texas will mail a title to you that does not show a lien. The purchaser must then go to any Montgomery County Tax Office location and file the title application. Proof of current insurance will be required. The fee is $33, plus motor-vehicle sales tax (6.25 percent). There is also a $2.50 transfer fee.
The term Bonded Title is commonly used when an individual or firm has obtained a Certificate of Title Surety Bond in order to register a motor vehicle. It is also referred to commonly as a Texas Bonded Vehicle Title. What Is a Bonded Title-Basic Facts: The Transportation Code ยง501.053 allows for a bond in the amount of one and one-half times the value of the vehicle. To determine your eligibility for the bonded title procedure and the value of the bond, take or mail the following documents to your Vehicle Titles and Registration (VTR) Division Regional Office 1  : A Statement of Fact for Bonded Title (VTR-130-SOF),
To obtain a duplicate title, you must: 1  Complete an Application for Duplicate Title form (Reg 227) (PDF) including the vehicle license plate number, your true full name, current address and your driver license number. 2  Sign the statement of facts explaining what happened to the title. 1 Complete an Application for Duplicate Title form (Reg 227) (PDF) including the vehicle license plate number, your true full name, current address and your driver license number. 2  Sign the statement of facts explaining what happened to the title. 3  Attach the damaged title, if mutilated.
1 To a vehicle purchased from a dealer. 2  Remove the plates and request that the dealer transfer the plates to the new vehicle. 3  To a vehicle purchased from a private party. 4  Register the plates with your local county tax assessor-collector office when you title the vehicle in your name. Be sure to remove the registration sticker on your old vehicle when you take off the plates. Note: 1  Plates seven years old and older cannot be transferred to another vehicle. 2  New plates must be obtained due to safety concerns related to the loss of reflectivity.
A bonded title is another name for a document known as a Certificate of Title Surety. Utilized in lieu of a standard car title, obtaining the bond makes it possible to move forward with registering the motor vehicle with the local Department of Motor Vehicles or DMV. In many locations, it is possible to obtain a bonded title for a number of different types of motor vehicles. Along with cars, trucks, buses, and travel trailers are also eligible. It is not unusual for a jurisdiction to also approve a title bond for motorcycles and campers.