Applies To: You can create a Recovery Drive this way in any edition of Windows 8 or Windows 8.1. Here's How: 1  Open the Windows 8 Control Panel. 2  Windows 8 includes a tool to create a Recovery Drive and it's most easily accessible from the Control Panel. 3  Tap or click on the System and Security link. Once you have a Recovery Drive created on a flash drive, you'll be able to boot from it in the event that Windows 8 no longer starts properly for some reason, in which case these diagnostic tools will come in handy. Considering its value, one of the first things a new Windows 8 user should do is create a Recovery Drive.
Remember, this will become a dedicated Recovery Drive. Once you select your USB flash drive, click Next. In the next screen, as shown in Figure E, you are once again warned that the contents of the drive will be deleted. To continue, click the Create button. You can then close the Recovery Drive wizard by clicking the Finish button. If you included a recovery partition on the USB flash drive, when the process is complete, you'll be prompted to delete the recovery partition from the hard disk to free up space, as shown in Figure H.
1 On the Select the USB flash drive screen, choose the drive letter that corresponds to the flash drive you want to use as a Windows 8 Recovery Drive. 2  Note: If no flash drive is found, but you do have an optical drive, you'll see a Create a system repair disc with a CD or DVD instead link at the bottom of the window. Once you have a Recovery Drive created on a flash drive, you'll be able to boot from it in the event that Windows 8 no longer starts properly for some reason, in which case these diagnostic tools will come in handy. Considering its value, one of the first things a new Windows 8 user should do is create a
Note: A Recovery Drive is the Windows 8 equivalent of a System Repair Disc from Windows 7. If you're using Windows 7, see How To Create a Windows 7 System Repair Disc for that process. See Step 10 below if you're interested in creating a System Repair Disc for Windows 8. Once you have a Recovery Drive created on a flash drive, you'll be able to boot from it in the event that Windows 8 no longer starts properly for some reason, in which case these diagnostic tools will come in handy. Considering its value, one of the first things a new Windows 8 user should do is create a Recovery Drive.
To launch the USB flash drive version of the Recovery tool, use the [Windows] + W keystroke to access the Search Settings page, type Recovery Drive in the text box, and click Create a recovery drive, as illustrated in Figure A. You'll then encounter a UAC, as shown in Figure B and will need to click Yes to continue. You can then close the Recovery Drive wizard by clicking the Finish button. If you included a recovery partition on the USB flash drive, when the process is complete, you'll be prompted to delete the recovery partition from the hard disk to free up space, as shown in Figure H.
The recovery image is stored on a dedicated recovery partition on your PC, and is typically 3-6 GB in size. To save space on your PC, you can delete the recovery image from your PC and use a recovery drive instead. Windows 8.1 includes a built-in tool to create a USB recovery drive. Windows will let you know how big the recovery partition is, and you'll need a USB flash drive at least that big. Was my master boot record possibly messed up and does the recovery drive attempt to fix MBR issues prior to presenting recovery options? What does it do? Like I said, I did not choose any of the recovery options. I inserted the recovery drive, booted to it, and then only selected the boot to Windows 8.1 option.
In a moment, you'll see the first screen in the Recovery Drive wizard, as shown in Figure C. If your computer came with an OEM recovery partition, the Copy the recovery partition check box will be enabled allowing you to include the contents of the recovery partition on the recovery USB flash drive. (If you select this option, you'll need a sufficiently large capacity USB flash drive.) To continue, click Next. You can then close the Recovery Drive wizard by clicking the Finish button. If you included a recovery partition on the USB flash drive, when the process is complete, you'll be prompted to delete the recovery partition from the hard disk to free up space, as shown in Figure H.
This computer is just about 1 month old but the Recovery drive D is almost full but the OS drive C is hardy used. What should I do. I dont want anything to be deleted on my computer that could cause harm to it. I dont have a external hard disk drive. Windows 7 has assigned a drive letter to the recovery partition, but nothing in the system will access it, and it doesn't matter that it's almost full. I recommend that you remove the drive letter from the recovery partition: 1. Click the Start button. 2. Type diskmgmt.msc in the Search box and press Enter. 3.
1 Open the Windows 8 Control Panel. 2  Windows 8 includes a tool to create a Recovery Drive and it's most easily accessible from the Control Panel. 3  Tap or click on the System and Security link. 4  Note: You won't see System and Security if your Control Panel view is set to Large icons or Small icons. Once you have a Recovery Drive created on a flash drive, you'll be able to boot from it in the event that Windows 8 no longer starts properly for some reason, in which case these diagnostic tools will come in handy. Considering its value, one of the first things a new Windows 8 user should do is create a Recovery Drive.
Recovery (D): is a special partition on the hard drive used to restore the system in the event of problem. Recovery (D:) drive can be seen in Windows Explorer as a usable drive, you should not attempt to store files in it. Storing files can on the Recovery (D:) drive can cause the system recovery process to fail. Click Advanced Options. Select Remove the recovery partition on your hard drive to increase available hard drive space. Figure: Recovery Manager: Advanced options. Click Next. Read and respond to the screens to remove Recovery (D:) drive.