Only 39.6 percent of operations vaccinated any cows for any of the listed diseases. For cows, the most commonly used vaccine was for Leptospira (31.7 percent of operations) followed by BVD (28.1 percent of operations) and IBR (24.6 percent of operations). Less than one-third of operations (31.5 percent) vaccinated bulls for any of the listed diseases. Vaccination for BVD and leptospirosis occurred on approximately one of five operations (24.3 and 21.2 percent, respectively).
Preventing diseases through the use of a herd health management plan saves time and money. For best results, work with a veterinarian who is familiar with your beef cattle operation. Justifying the cost of preventive management is sometimes difficult. Vaccination programs should always be customized for your operation. Items to consider while establishing a vaccination program include geo graphic region, type of cattle operation, frequency of introducing new stock, post-vaccination problems and export or interstate shipping requirements.
Western Beef follows this regimen for its own 300-cow herd. The cost of providing these minimum vaccination requirements is $15.60 per cow-calf pair. The veterinary and medicine expense calculated from WBDC’s Cost of Production benchmark study has typically been about $20.00 per cow. If you were going to treat each cow-calf pair with all the vaccines indicated below, the cost would work out to approximately $33.00 per pair. The cost of providing minimum vaccination requirements – blackleg, BVD, and bacterial pneumonia –
Some producers, however, do not The investment in disease prevention is less than the cost of disease treat­ment. Don’t wait until a disease out­break occurs before implementing a sound herd health program. For cattle to reach their performance potential, they must be healthy. Many animal health problems can be controlled with good management, proper nutrition and vaccination against infectious diseases. Beef cattle vaccination programs vary, depending upon the type of operation and area of Arkansas. The purpose of this fact sheet is to provide the cattle producer with a basic herd health vaccination program. It is important to contact your veterinarian to determine if additional vaccinations are required for your area. Table 1. Cattle Vital Statistics Rectal Temperature 101.5 degrees F (38.5 degrees C) Heart Rate 60 to 70 Beats/Minute Respiratory Rate 30 breaths/minute Estrous Cycle 18 to 23 days Estrus 12 to 18 hours.
Beef cattle vaccination programs vary, depending upon the type of operation and area of Arkansas. The purpose of this fact sheet is to provide the cattle producer with a basic herd health vaccination program. It is important to contact your veterinarian to determine if additional vaccinations are required for your area. Vaccination programs should always be customized for your operation. Items to consider while establishing a vaccination program include geo graphic region, type of cattle operation, frequency of introducing new stock, post-vaccination problems and export or interstate shipping requirements.
The investment in disease prevention is less than the cost of disease treatment. Don’t wait until a disease outbreak occurs before implementing a sound herd health program. For cattle to reach their performance potential, they must be healthy. Vaccination programs should always be customized for your operation. Items to consider while establishing a vaccination program include geo graphic region, type of cattle operation, frequency of introducing new stock, post-vaccination problems and export or interstate shipping requirements.
Free Cowboy Syringe View qualifications. Inforce 3 is an intranasal vaccine used for the vaccination of healthy cattle for the prevention of respiratory disease caused by BRSV, and as an aid in preventing respiratory disease caused by IBR and PI3. 
Table 1 below, contains per-dose costs of recommended vaccines for your herd. All prices have been sourced from a local vet clinic with whom WBDC conducts business. If you were going to treat each cow-calf pair with all the vaccines indicated below, the cost would work out to approximately $33.00 per pair. The cost of providing minimum vaccination requirements – blackleg, BVD, and bacterial pneumonia – is $15.60 per cow-calf pair. Table 1. Typical herd diseases to vaccinate against & per dose cost Covexin-8 Spring Spring Bacterial Pneumonia a Pour-on rate 1 mL per 22 lb; based on 5 L pour-on for 1200 lb cow
Cows and Bulls 4-6 weeks Prior to Breeding. 1. Viral respiratory vaccine (IBR, BVD, PI3, BRSV) with Campylobacter fetus (Vibriosis) and 5-way Leptospirosis-Fetal Protection (FP) product preferred. If the cow is pregnant at the time of vaccination, use a killed vaccine product to reduce the risk of accidental abortion. Certain modified live vaccines can be used in pregnant animals but only if used strictly according to label directions. 2. 7 way Clostridial (Blackleg)-necessary if under 2 years of age. Optional after that depending on the exposure risk of the herd. 3. Deworm-perform at least twice per year (spring and summer).