blood circulation. The movement of blood through the left atrium and ventricle of the heart, aorta, arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, veins, vena cava, and back to the right side of the heart, into the pulmonary artery, lungs, and left side of the heart again. systemic circulation the general circulation, carrying oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues, and returning venous blood to the right atrium. umbilical circulation fetal circulation through the umbilical vessels.
pulmonary circulation the flow of blood from the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery to the lungs, where carbon dioxide is exchanged for oxygen, and back through the pulmonary vein to the left atrium. systemic circulation the general circulation, carrying oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues, and returning venous blood to the right atrium. umbilical circulation fetal circulation through the umbilical vessels.
Full Definition of CIRCULATION. 1. : orderly movement through a circuit; especially: the movement of blood through the vessels of the body induced by the pumping action of the heart. 2. : flow. 3. : the movement of blood through the vessels of the body that is induced by the pumping action of the heart and serves to distribute nutrients and oxygen to and remove waste products from all parts of the body—see pulmonary circulation, systemic circulation.
Jul 8, '11 by Always_Learning. Circulation, sensation, and movement is correct when you are talking about assessment. How in the world they are getting positives on all of those for that patient I don't know. To check circulation, I look at color and capillary refill (less than 3 seconds or so). Top. 0 Can someone please tell me what CSM is and how you assess for it. I work for a homecare company. And all the other nurses fill out thier assessments and just put CSM+ The patient is wheelchair bound, has spinal muscular atrophy and has no movement. I thought CSM was for circulation, sensory and movement
1 Retrieved October 19 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Circulation%2c-Sensation%2c-Movement-(injury-evaluation)-(CSM).html. 2  APA style: CSM. (n.d.) Acronym Finder. ( 3 2015). 4  Retrieved October 19 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Circulation%2c-Sensation%2c-Movement-(injury-evaluation)-(CSM).html. 1 AcronymFinder.com 19 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Circulation%2c-Sensation%2c-Movement-(injury-evaluation)-(CSM).html. 2  Chicago style: Acronym Finder
Medical Definition of CIRCULATION. : the movement of blood through the vessels of the body that is induced by the pumping action of the heart and serves to distribute nutrients and oxygen to and remove waste products from all parts of the body—see pulmonary circulation, systemic circulation.
portal circulation a general term denoting the circulation of blood through larger vessels from the capillaries of one organ to those of another; applied to the passage of blood from the gastrointestinal tract and spleen through the portal vein to the liver. systemic circulation the general circulation, carrying oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues, and returning venous blood to the right atrium. umbilical circulation fetal circulation through the umbilical vessels.
1 Acronym Finder. 2015. 2  AcronymFinder.com 19 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Circulation%2c-Sensation%2c-Movement-(injury-evaluation)-(CSM).html. 3  Chicago style: Acronym Finder. 4  S.v. 1 AcronymFinder.com 19 Oct. 2015 http://www.acronymfinder.com/Circulation%2c-Sensation%2c-Movement-(injury-evaluation)-(CSM).html. 2  Chicago style: Acronym Finder