To view the description of crimes that are considered aggravated felonies under immigration law, go to the Immigration and Nationality Act at I.N.A. § 101(a)(45). This list includes, in brief summary: 1  murder. 1 failure to appear in court on a felony charge for which a sentence of two years in prison may be imposed. 2  alien smuggling, and. 3  obstruction of justice, perjury, or bribery of a witness, if the term of imprisonment was at least one year.
If an alien has been convicted of a certain type of offense, it may constitute or be considered an aggravated felony under the immigration laws. It is important to note that although an offense may not have been considered aggravated under. 
When the category of aggravated felonies  was first added to the Immigration and Nationality Act in 1988, as a response to heightened concerns about drug abuse, it encompassed only murder and trafficking in drugs or firearms. The particular question before us is whether petit larceny, a class A misdemeanor under New York law that carries a maximum sentence of one year, can subject a federal defendant to the extreme sanctions imposed by the aggravated felon classification.
THE SOLUTION: Congress must narrow the “aggravated felony” definition under immigration law so that it reflects common sense, proportionality, and the American system of justice and not mandate lifetime exile for an overly broad range of offenses, including minor and old convictions. 
USICE can deport a non-citizen from the U.S. for committing what it calls an “aggravated felony.” According to the Immigration and Nationality Act (hereinafter “the Act” or “Immigration and Nationality Act”) which authorizes the USICE to deport non-citizens, the definition of this charge can be quite complicated. It is important to determine whether the commission of a crime is an aggravated felony under the Act before conceding the charges in Immigration Court. This is especially important if you are eligible to apply for a waiver.
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. If the term “aggravated felony” sounds it refers like a serious crime, it should. Any noncitizen convicted of an aggravated felony will lose the right to many types of immigration benefits. 1 failure to appear in court on a felony charge for which a sentence of two years in prison may be imposed. 2  alien smuggling, and. 3  obstruction of justice, perjury, or bribery of a witness, if the term of imprisonment was at least one year.
An aggravated felony (violent felony or a federal felony) is used in the United States immigration law to refer to a broad category of criminal offenses that carry certain severe consequences for aliens seeking asylum, legal permanent resident status, citizenship, or avoidance of deportation proceedings. The particular question before us is whether petit larceny, a class A misdemeanor under New York law that carries a maximum sentence of one year, can subject a federal defendant to the extreme sanctions imposed by the aggravated felon classification.
Prior to the enactment of IIRIRA, the law defined an aggravated felony as including; inter alia, an offense that involves fraud or deceit in which the loss to the victim or victims exceeds $ 200,000. 8 USCS § 1101(a)(43)(M)(i). The Immigration Act provided that the amended definition of aggravated felony applied to offenses committed on or after the date of the enactment of this Act [November 29, 1990].. United States v. Lazo-Ortiz, 136 F.3d 1282 (11th Cir. Fla. 1998
Anyone convicted of an aggravated felony and removed from the United States must remain outside of the United States for twenty consecutive years from the deportation date before he or she is eligible to re-enter the United States.. The particular question before us is whether petit larceny, a class A misdemeanor under New York law that carries a maximum sentence of one year, can subject a federal defendant to the extreme sanctions imposed by the aggravated felon classification.