Erica /er-i-ca/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced AIR-a-ka. It is of Old Norse origin, and the meaning of Erica is complete ruler . Latinate feminine form of Eric, and also a flower name, as the Latin word erica means  heather . Scandinavian name revived in the 19th century. Erica is a very popular first name for females (#169 out of 4276, Top 4%) but a rare last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census).
The name Erica is of English origin, and it means Always Ruler . It's a name commonly given to girls. Erica Durance is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 2 to present. 
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Erica in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Erica in Nautical Flags page.
The given name Erika, or Erica, is a feminine form of Eric, deriving from the Old Norse name Eirikr (eiríkr Or erikr Eríkr In eastern scandinavia due). to monophthongization It is a common name in many Western societies. It is also a popular given name in Japan. Erica is also the name of a genus of approximately 860 species of flowering plants in the family Ericaceae, commonly known as heaths or heathers in English.
The name Erica is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Erica is: noble. American Meaning: The name Erica is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Erica is: noble. Latin Meaning: The name Erica is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Erica is: The plant 'erica'. Norse Meaning: The name Erica is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Erica is: Forever strong. 
Comments and insights on the name Erica: | Edit. Erica is also the Latin and Italian word for Heather as in the Heather flower. The winter Heather as its called is actually an Erica. The reason I am adding this is because my name is Heather and my sisters name is Erica. Just like any other Erica my name often gets misspelled w/either Erika or Ericka. Of course I think my spelling is the best. I've also been called Jessica, Sarah/Sara, & Erin on the phone several times. But it is what it is. I don't let that stuff bother me.
Erica is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced E-ri-ca. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 657 in baby name popularity for girls with 431 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Erica Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Erica has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Erica to other names. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Erica in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Erica in Nautical Flags page.