Definition of PERSIAN. 1. : one of the people of Persia: as a: one of the ancient Iranians who under Cyrus and his successors founded an empire in southwest Asia b: a member of one of the peoples forming the modern Iranian nationality. 2.
Persian is an Iranian language belonging to the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European family of languages. In general, Iranian languages are known from three periods, usually referred to as Old, Middle, and New (Modern) periods. It is an Iranian language and as such, like its modern-day variant, a branch of the Indo-European language family. The oldest known text written in Old Persian is from the Behistun Inscriptions. Examples of Old Persian have been found in what is now present-day Iran, Turkey, Bahrain, Iraq, and Egypt.
Persian (/ˈpɜrʒən/ or /ˈpɜrʃən/), also known by its endonym Farsi or Parsi (English: /ˈfɑrsiː/ ; Persian: فارسی fārsi [fɒːɾˈsiː]. ), is the predominant modern descendant of Old Persian, a southwestern Iranian language within the Indo-Iranian branch of the Indo-European languages. It is an Iranian language and as such, like its modern-day variant, a branch of the Indo-European language family. The oldest known text written in Old Persian is from the Behistun Inscriptions. Examples of Old Persian have been found in what is now present-day Iran, Turkey, Bahrain, Iraq, and Egypt.
Persian is a pluricentric language and its grammar is similar to that of many contemporary European languages. Persian is so-called due to its origin from the capital of the Achaemenid empire, Persis (Fars or Pars) hence the name Persian (Farsi or Parsi) . It is an Iranian language and as such, like its modern-day variant, a branch of the Indo-European language family. The oldest known text written in Old Persian is from the Behistun Inscriptions. Examples of Old Persian have been found in what is now present-day Iran, Turkey, Bahrain, Iraq, and Egypt.
Persian belongs to the Western branch of the Iranian family of Indo-European languages, which also includes Kurdish, Gilaki, Mazandarani, Talyshi, and Baluchi. The language is in the Southwestern Iranian group, along with the Larestani, Kumzari, and Luri languages. It is an Iranian language and as such, like its modern-day variant, a branch of the Indo-European language family. The oldest known text written in Old Persian is from the Behistun Inscriptions. Examples of Old Persian have been found in what is now present-day Iran, Turkey, Bahrain, Iraq, and Egypt.
Persian is the official language of the nations of Iran, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan, and is spoken in parts of Iraq, Armenia, and Russia. While various dialects of Persian are in use throughout the world, they are all mutually intelligible, unlike some widespread languages such as Arabic and Mandarin. Top 10 facts about the world. Persian is a language spoken in parts of the Middle East and Central Asia. It is also known by many people as Farsi, and less commonly as Dari or Tajik. Persian has over 60 million native speakers, with an additional 50 million speaking it in addition to their first language.
The Persian people (Persian: پارسیان) are an Iranian people who speak the modern Persian language and closely related Iranian dialects and languages. The term Persian translates to from Persis  which is a region north of the Persian Gulf located in Pars, Iran. Persian has historically referred to some Iranian languages, however what today is referred to as the Persian language is part of the Western group of the Iranian languages branch of the Indo-European language family. Today, speakers of the western dialect of Persian form the majority in
Iran is the homeland of ethnic-Persians. Persians (including Persian sub-groups) and Persian-speakers (other ethnic groups that have adopted Persian language) can also be found in Tajikistan, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Kuwait, UAE, Iraq, Georgia, Turkey, Armenia, Oman, the Caucasus, Azerbaijan and Uzbekistan. Persian has historically referred to some Iranian languages, however what today is referred to as the Persian language is part of the Western group of the Iranian languages branch of the Indo-European language family. Today, speakers of the western dialect of Persian form the majority in Ir