Education Requirements. If you want to become a legal secretary, then you should obtain a paralegal certification from the local community college or university. You only need to go to school for two years in order to become a legal secretary. Some people choose to obtain an undergraduate degree in legal studies before they decide to attend law school. It can be helpful for you to obtain this type of degree and work for a few years as a legal secretary. Your law office may decide to pay your way through law school so that you can become a lawyer for the firm. Working as a legal secretary can get your foot in the door and provide other incredible opportunities to you in the future. Salary & How to Get a Job. The typical salary of a legal secretary is $30,000 to $50,000.
Now that you know how to become a legal secretary, it is worth considering whether this plan of study will get you the career options you are looking for. A legal secretary is ultimately a specialized secretary who contributes to the administration of law courts, law rooms and law firms. How to Become A Legal Secretary. As mentioned, above you don’t need a particular degree to become a legal secretary. So you can become a legal secretary by completing any undergraduate degree that focuses on reading, writing and research skills.
An associate's degree program for legal secretaries gives you the training necessary for entry-level employment at a law firm. Some programs also prepare you to become a paralegal or legal assistant. You learn about preparing legal documents and managing a legal office. Aside from the electives commonly required in an associate's degree program, as a legal secretary student, you take courses that discuss office management, law terminology, keyboarding, business math and communication. Your coursework helps you develop your writing and critical thinking skills.
Research what it takes to become a school secretary. Learn about job duties, education requirements and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Administrative Assistant degrees can also be found in these popular choices. If you do not have a degree, you must have at least four years of related work experience to qualify for the certification. You must also pass an exam that includes such topics as record management, document preparation, communication and organization methods.
by Ryan. When you are a medical secretary, you have the satisfaction of knowing that your work contributes to the care of patients. Without your ability to greet patients in a friendly manner and transcribe documents, a medical office would not be able to function. Salary & How to Get a Job. The average salary of a medical secretary is about $32,000 a year. Medical secretaries are frequently able to work on a part-time or full-time basis. Being a medical secretary while one is pursuing a degree can provide a person with a stable income.
Field-Specific Courses. If you already have some ideas of the type of office you wish to work in, it's smart to focus your courses in those areas. For example, if you want to be a legal secretary, you'd take courses in law, and if you want to be a medical secretary, you might take courses in anatomy. Community colleges may have specific courses about working as a secretary in these field
Not really. I started working as a secretary when I was sixteen through a program my high school offered. I went to high school for a half-day, and, then, I went to my secretarial job for the other half of the day. I graduated high school at eighteen and kept that job until I was in my mid-twenties. 
83 months ago. A college degree is not necessary to be a secretary but since there are so many women with college degrees, the market allows for employers to demand it.. Then again, it can scare away some employers who fear you will leave for something better. But I believe that experience, skills, professional appearance, and communication trump a four-year degree ANY DAY! We didn't all have the same opportunities in life, believe it or not! And back when I started working, you didn't NEED a degree to be a Professional Secretary or Admin. Assistant.