And should you include benefits? A recent internship survey from the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE) offers some insight into what employers are paying interns for their work. The average hourly wage rate for a bachelor's degree intern is $16.26. Generally, the closer to the terminal degree, the higher the internship wage. A college senior, for example, averages 20.2 percent more than a student who just completed the freshman year: $17.47 versus $14.53 per hour. Similarly, the higher the level of the degree, the higher the wage. In fact, according to NACE’s latest intern compensation report, the average hourly wage for a master’s degree candidate is 35 percent more than the average wage rate for an intern earning a bachelor’s degree: $21.90 compared to $16.26.
Generally, the closer to the terminal degree, the higher the internship wage. A college senior, for example, averages 26 percent more than a student who just completed the freshman year: $17.57 versus $13.91 per hour. Similarly, the higher the level of the degree, the higher the wage. In fact, according to NACE’s latest intern compensation report, the average hourly wage for a master’s degree candidate is 35 percent more than the average wage rate for an intern earning a bachelor’s degree: $21.93 compared to $16.21. Salaries also vary by major and industry. (Sample NACE’s compensation report)
For the intern, the benefits should be extensive. An internship gives valuable real-life work experience that a course cannot necessarily provide. It helps the intern to develop soft skills for working with people. The good thing about a small business is that you can offer an intern experience in all aspects of running the business.”. “We hired Natasha last summer for a few weeks and she was such an asset that we kept her on all year on a part-time basis while she finished her degree.
With one in five young people out of work, the demand for internships is rising. For small business owners in need of an extra pair of hands, the prospect of cheap, or even free, labour, can be very enticing. The good thing about a small business is that you can offer an intern experience in all aspects of running the business.”. “We hired Natasha last summer for a few weeks and she was such an asset that we kept her on all year on a part-time basis while she finished her degree.
Rights to the National Minimum Wage. An intern is entitled to the National Minimum Wage if they count as a worker. Employers can’t avoid paying the National Minimum Wage if it’s due by: 1  saying or stating that it doesn’t apply.
Employment rights and pay for interns. An intern’s rights depend on their employment status. If an intern is classed as a worker, then they’re normally due the National Minimum Wage. Internships are sometimes called work placements or work experience. These terms have no legal status on their own. An intern is entitled to the National Minimum Wage if they count as a worker. Employers can’t avoid paying the National Minimum Wage if it’s due by: 1  saying or stating that it doesn’t apply.
What you want in an intern is someone who's interested in learning your business (and the world of business) and who will, in turn, help your company. And even though you can surely find high-quality interns who are willing to work for free, that's becoming increasingly rare. With high-profile disputes in the news, the legal climate has changed, and there's nothing to prevent your unpaid interns of today from returning six months later and suing for back pay. The ones that struggle are companies with 300 to 400 unpaid interns in the course of a year, so changing to paid would mean a total revamp to their intern program. Even though it's more challenging, companies like Viacom have seen the strategic benefit and shifted entirely to paid, so it's still possible.
We also want them to benefit from the internship and if they’re good and bright, there’s probably a job in it for them at the end of it. The good thing about a small business is that you can offer an intern experience in all aspects of running the business.”. “We hired Natasha last summer for a few weeks and she was such an asset that we kept her on all year on a part-time basis while she finished her degree.
A key factor in determining proper internship length is that an internship should be long enough so that an intern can get into the rhythm of the position and complete deliverables that are valuable to you and them. If your position is only for 5-10 hours a week consider a 6-8 month long internship. During the school year a position should be no longer than 15-20 hours a week. The time commitment should reflect how substantial the position/internship project is -- you should be able to easily fill up the interns’ hours with projects related to the position description.