White clover is in the legume family (Fabaceae) and is capable of fixing its own nitrogen, which enables it to thrive in unfertilized areas. Because of this, it can be used to indicate inadequate fertility. It has a shallow root system that does not do well in dry soils. 
--The root system of a plant 2.5 months old, grown in a field near Lincoln, Nebr., in rich, moist, silt loam soil is shown in Fig. 103. The top, at this time, was scarcely 12 inches tall. The strong taproot, the widely spreading and muchbranched laterals, and the abundance of tubercles are all characteristic. White clover has a root habit quite similar to that of red clover, at least, during its first season of growth. White sweet clover rapidly develops a deep fleshy taproot. This was found to reach a depth of 2.5 feet at the end of 7 weeks and about 6 feet after 4 months
White and ladino clover. White clover is a stoloniferous plant with a shallow root system. The primary stems of white clover usually die before the second year, and the life of the plant depends upon the stolons and their haphazard roots. 
Best Answer: Yes the 2nd one fibrous root. Nodulated Roots are the type of fibrous root. Peas, beans, groundnut, moong, urad & Gram are few examples of plant that possess nodulated roots. These plants are called leguminous plant. Fibrous roots are generally much more diffuse and closer to the surface Nitrogen fixing roots-members of the Leguminosae family (alfalfa, peas and clover) have a bacterium that infects their roots and forms nodules
White clover has runners or stolons that provide a secondary root system and energy storage for regrowth and grazing tolerance. White clover (Trifolium repens L.) is a cool season perennial legume of Mediterranean origin. White clover has been used as a forage in North American since Colonial times. Benjamin Franklin noted its prevalence in cleared and disturbed land as early as 1746. In addition, white clover is a cool season forage so it can improve (at least as an annual) the forage distribution and production of warm season pastures like bermudagrass and bahiagrass on wetter soils.
A clover is a type of plant found in locations throughout the  world. There are 300 different types of clovers and they are green  in color. 
White clover (Trifolium repens L.) is a short-lived perennial that can reseed itself under favorable conditions. It grows rapidly and spreads via stolons. White clover has a shallow root system, which makes it intolerant of droughty soils. It grows best during cool, moist weather on well-drained, fertile soils with a pH between 6 and 7 (Table 1). Pure stands of white clover are not usually planted because of their low growth habit and associated low yield. White clover can be frost seeded (in early spring when the soil is still honeycombed with frost) into existing grass pastures to improve pasture production and quality. This technique requires that seeding be done while the soil contains frost.
The clover root curculio is a common insect in Pennsylvania alfalfa and clover fields. It is believed to be of European origin, and was originally reported from North America in New Jersey in 1875. It is distributed from coast to coast in the U.S. and also exists in Canada and eastern Mexico. It is difficult to separate the stresses imposed by clover root curculio and root pathogens since they commonly occur together on infested plants. Thus, damage associated with the clover root curculio is most likely a combination of insect and pathogen injury.
Plant Roots. The root system of a plant constantly provides the stems and leaves with water and dissolved minerals. In order to accomplish this the roots must grow into new regions of the soil. The growth and metabolism of the plant root system is supported by the process of photosynthesis occurring in the leaves. 
The clover root curculio also physically transports pathogens to uninfected sites on the roots of host plants. Clover root curculio injury can cause losses in forage yield, forage quality (primarily crue protein), and reduce nitrogen fixation. It is difficult to separate the stresses imposed by clover root curculio and root pathogens since they commonly occur together on infested plants. Thus, damage associated with the clover root curculio is most likely a combination of insect and pathogen injury.