Archway is a London Underground station in Archway, of the London Borough of Islington, north London. It is located underneath the Archway Tower, at the intersection of Holloway Road, Highgate Hill, Junction Road and Archway Road. It is on the High Barnet branch of the Northern line, between Highgate and Tufnell Park stations, in Zones 2 and 3. At the time of the station's construction the first cable car in Europe operated non-stop up Highgate Hill to the village from outside the Archway Tavern, and this name was also considered for the station.
For example, if you have a zone 1-2 weekly Travelcard and you want to visit Richmond in zone 4, you need to add extra money to your Oyster to cover the fare for zones 3 and 4. The simplest way to do this is at an underground station ticket office. You can see the zone on the tube map. The zones are marked in either white or lilac. Scroll around or type in a station name in the search box to see the zone. View a large version of
Every London Underground line—except for the Waterloo & City line —has stations in zone 2. It was created on 22 May 1983 and extends from approximately 2 to 5 miles (3 to 8 km) from Piccadilly Circus. 1 January 2008: Hampstead Heath from Zone 3 to Zone 2, Willesden Junction from Zone 3 to Zone 2/3 boundary and Acton Central from Zone 2 to Zone 3.
London Transport Zones. London is divided into 1-6 zones*. Central London is zone 1, zone 2 is the ring around zone 1, zone 3 is the ring around 2 and so on. If you look at the zone map below it will make sense. It’s important to be aware of London’s transport zones and to find out what zone a station is in. You can see the zone on the tube map. The zones are marked in either white or lilac. Scroll around or type in a station name in the search box to see the zone. View a large version of
The last review of Zone Z was undertaken in 2007, however with the ongoing regeneration of the Archway Gyratory and surrounding areas, additional controls are needed to help protect residents. 
Fare zone 2 is an inner zone of Transport for London 's zonal fare system used for calculating the price of tickets for travel on the London Underground, London Overground, Docklands Light Railway and, since 2007, on National Rail services. Contents. 1 January 2008: Hampstead Heath from Zone 3 to Zone 2, Willesden Junction from Zone 3 to Zone 2/3 boundary and Acton Central from Zone 2 to Zone 3.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Archway tube station is a London Underground station in north London, underneath the Archway Tower, at the intersection of Holloway Road, Highgate Hill and Junction Road in the area known as Archway. It is on the High Barnet branch of the Northern line, between Highgate and Tufnell Park. 