Definitions (2). 1. A bond issued by an entity on behalf of a second party, guaranteeing that the second party will fulfill an obligation or series of obligations to a third party. In the event that the obligations are not met, the third party will recover its losses via the bond. 2. 
surety. 1. Person or firm (such as a bank, bonding company, insurance company) that agrees to be primarily liable for the conduct, obligation, or performance of another. She co-signed my loan application as a surety, thereby becoming a guarantor for the full amount of the loan in the unlikely event that I would default on my payments. 2 people found this helpful. If you don't have a good enough credit score for the loan look for a surety to get on your side so the bank will loan you.
Full Definition of SURETY. 1. : the state of being sure: as a: sure knowledge: certainty b: confidence in manner or behavior: assurance. 2. a: a formal engagement (as a pledge) given for the fulfillment of an undertaking: guarantee b: a basis of confidence or security. 
When the bail bond has served its purpose, the surety will be exonerated (i.e., released from the obligation). Exoneration normally occurs when the proceeding is terminated in some way or on the return of the defendant to custody. After conviction, the defendant appears for sentence. 
Signing a continuing surety means you are guaranteeing that the accused will turn up for every court appearance until the case is finished. This means you do not have to attend court and re-sign a surety undertaking on every occasion the accused attends court. 
Surety is a noun the definition of the word surety is: a guarantor who binds themselves to another’s obligations and pledges that their obligations will be met in case the principal is in default. With Surety, it is reverse for one there is no deductible. In addition, if someone is acting as a Surety for you and a claim occurs, you must restore the surety to the financial position it once was at before the time of the loss or claim. Because you are indemnifying the surety company not the surety indemnifying you.
A surety, surety bond or guaranty, in finance, is a promise by one party to assume responsibility for the debt obligation of a borrower if that borrower defaults. A promise to pay a sum of money in the event that another person fails to fulfill an obligation. surety (Noun). One who undertakes to pay money or perform other acts in the event that his principal fails therein.
Surety. A surety, surety bond or guaranty, in finance, is a promise by one party to assume responsibility for the debt obligation of a borrower if that borrower defaults. The person or company that provides this promise, is also known as a surety or guarantor. A promise to pay a sum of money in the event that another person fails to fulfill an obligation. surety (Noun). One who undertakes to pay money or perform other acts in the event that his principal fails therein.
surety. n. a guarantor of payment or performance if another fails to pay or perform, such as a bonding company which posts a bond for a guardian, an administrator, or a building contractor. 
(November 2010). In finance, a surety, surety bond or guaranty involves a promise by one party to assume responsibility for the debt obligation of a borrower if that borrower defaults. The person or company providing this promise is also known as a surety or as a guarantor. The surety transaction will typically involve a producer; in the United States the National Association of Surety Bond Producers (NASBP) is a trade association which represents this group.