Working Tax Credit is only paid if one of you is working for more than 16 hours a week. If your husband does not work for 16 hours then you will lose this credit completely. There is also an extra payment on this credit if you are working at least 30 hours a week between you. It probably won't affect your tax credits as the first £30,000 of redundancy payment is tax free. Have a look here: - http://www.redundancyhelp.co.uk/PayQuick... Source(s): Ex Civil Servant-made redundant! Fellside13 · 7 years ago.
A If you earn more than £60,000, based on your adjusted net income, then the tax charge is equivalent to the benefit. Someone with one child will face a tax charge of £1,056 at the end of the year. Two children will incur a £1,752 tax bill and so on. You will never pay more tax than the benefit received. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You getting a redundancy payment will not directly affect your tax credits, because any assets, such as savings, are not taken into account when calculating the credits. However, there will be an indirect effect. As a family you will be working less hours and getting less income. It probably won't affect your tax credits as the first £30,000 of redundancy payment is tax free. Have a look here: - http://www.redundancyhelp.co.uk/PayQuick... Source(s): Ex Civil Servant-made redundant! Fellside13 · 7 years ago.
If you’re already getting tax credits to help with childcare costs, you’re probably better off not opting for salary sacrifice. That’s because you can only claim tax credits for the childcare you pay with your own money, rather than with vouchers. 
If you are paid more than your entitlement you will have a debt at the end of the year. If your yearly family income decreases you may be entitled to increased working for families tax credits payments. Call the working for families line 0800 227 773 to discuss what is right for you. Write a letter describing your personal circumstances and send with the form to: Student Loan Team Box 2020 Tauranga Child support Redundancy payments will not affect any child support you get. If you pay child support and are made redundant contact us to find out how this impacts your assessment.
Redundancy tax credit Employees who received redundancy payments from 1 December 2006 may be able to claim a 6% tax credit on the redundancy payment, up to a maximum of $3,600 per redundancy. To apply for a redundancy tax credit 1, complete the Redundancy Tax Credit Claim (IR524) form. Write a letter describing your personal circumstances and send with the form to: Student Loan Team Box 2020 Tauranga Child support Redundancy payments will not affect any child support you get. If you pay child support and are made redundant contact us to find out how this impacts your assessment.
When to claim. You can claim tax credits at any time of the year. Usually, tax credits are backdated by up to one month from the start of your claim. Apply as soon as you know you’re eligible so you get all the money you’re entitled to. 
There's good news and bad news. The good news is that the amount of Child Tax Credit and Working Tax Credit should go up as your income has reduced BUT the bad news is that as you are a couple and only you are working then your child care element will stop. 
Hi Hannah, Sorry about your DH, I know from experience redundancy is awful. My redundancy pay was only 700 but it was income so I told Tax Credits as soon as I was made redundant. I just gave them the figure from my last pay cheque as the redundancy money was on it. When my P45 came through the figures matched and Tax Credits were happy with this. HTH. Hi Hannah Phone tax credits to check. My guess is that you don't need to declare redundancy pay per se as long as it isn't taxable. I took the para below from Calculating your redundancy pay: Directgov-Employment Redundancy pay under 30,000 is not taxable.
If you get redundancy pay when you are made redundant, this might affect your right to claim benefits. For more information about benefits, go to our Benefits section. If you are getting Working Tax Credit (WTC) and your job ends because of redundancy, you will no longer be entitled to WTC. Some people can carry on getting WTC for four more weeks after their job ends. If you lose your job, you might be entitled to more Child Tax Credit. You must inform HM Revenue and Customs about the change in your circumstances. For more information about Working Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit, see Benefits and tax credits for people in work. Your State Retirement Pension and occupational pension won't be affected by your redundancy. You'll still get your pension when you reach retirement age or when your employment contract says you will.