Dimethylglycine is a derivative of the amino acid glycine with the structural formula (CH 3) 2 NCH 2 COOH. It can be found in beans and liver. It can be formed from trimethylglycine upon the loss of one of its methyl groups. 
1 DMG (N,N-Dimethylglycine) is a metabolic enhancer that can provide increased benefits when supplemented even if there isn’t a deficiency. 2  DMG helps the process of metabolism (breaking down or building up of compounds in the body) work better and more efficient. 3  DMG is a completely safe hypoallergenic nutrient. 
FoodScience of Vermont Aangamik DMG is used by athletes to quicken recovery time after strenuous exercise. DMG is also used by young and old alike to support circulation and glucose metabolism. Each tablet contains 250 mg of N, N-Dimethylglycine (DMG). 
Vitamin B-15 Supplements-Aangamik DMG. Aangamik DMG (dimethylglycine), or vitamin B-15, is a natural compound known for supporting circulatory health, cardiovascular function and the immune system. DMG also promotes muscle health, endurance and recovery through its effect on lactic acid. 23 items. Aangamik DMG (dimethylglycine), or vitamin B-15, is a natural compound known for supporting circulatory health, cardiovascular function and the immune system.
Dimethylglycine (DMG) is a nutrient which is found in the cells of both plants and animals. The human body produces DMG in very small amounts. Supplementing the diet with higher levels of DMG greatly improves the nutritional environment of the cell. SKU: 0300380.030. A dietary supplement to support immune system, circulatory, cardiovascular, and neurological functions; muscle recovery and endurance.*.
Dimethylglycine (DMG) is a nutrient which is found in the cells of both plants and animals. The human body produces DMG in very small amounts. Supplementing the diet with higher levels of DMG greatly improves the nutritional environment of the cell. 
Aangamik dmg is an adaptogen that can be used to maintain good health and benefit performance and productivity. As a metabolic enhancer, DMG supports the body in times of stress, throughout the aging process, and during immune system challenges. The statements and products referred to throughout this site have not been evaluated by the FDA. They are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease.
A dietary supplement to support immune system, circulatory, cardiovascular, and neurological functions; muscle recovery and endurance.* Dimethylglycine (DMG) is a nutrient that is found in the cells of both plants and animals. The human body produces DMG in very small amounts. 