The tire is the only point of contact between your machine and the road. It’s essential to maintain the quality and performance of your tires. With this in mind, we advise you to observe the safety rules and recommendations on use. When the depth of rubber remaining gets to the level of this mark, the tire has reached the legal wear limit of 1 mm. Note: The federal regulation is 1⁄32 inch. However, some states, New York and Texas for example, have a 2⁄32-inch requirement for motorcycle tires.
If rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth. Since water can't be compressed, you need enough tread depth to allow it to escape through the tire's grooves. If there isn't enough tread depth, the bites of snow your tires can take on each revolution will be so small that your traction will be reduced. Because tread depth is an important element for snow traction, winter tires start with deeper tread depths than standard all-season or summer tires.
1 On 4-wheel-drive or all-wheel-drive cars you should replace all four tires if it is recommended in your service manual. 2  Differences in tire diameter, even due to different states of tread wear, can permanently damage differentials. 3  Treadwear grades are an indication of a tire's relative wear rate. As the tires wear, these bars will become flush (level or even) with the tire's tread. At this point, it's time to replace the tires. 3. Check the tread by using the penny test.  Take a penny, and place it upside down with Lincoln facing you in the center of the tread (at the thickest part of the tire). 1  If you can see the very top of Lincoln's head or the copper above it, replace the tires immediately
The Tire Rack's advice is that if rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth. Since water can't be compressed, you need enough tread depth to allow the rain to escape through the tire's grooves. While it is simple to place a Lincoln penny in the tread groove of a worn tire and use Abe's likeness as a guide, we don't think Honest Abe knows what's best for today's drivers. The Lincoln penny tread depth test has been touted for years to be a suitable method of determining when it's time to get new tir
If rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth. Since water can't be compressed, you need enough tread depth to allow it to escape through the tire's grooves. If two of your tires have a lot of remaining tread depth, but you need to replace the other two because they were damaged or have worn out, you should replace them with a pair of tires that come as close as possible to matching your existing tires.
If your tires have a lot of remaining tread depth, but you need to replace just one that has been damaged by an accident, road hazard or a vandal, you should replace it with a tire that exactly matches the others. Select a replacement tire of the same brand, line, size and speed rating. If two of your tires have a lot of remaining tread depth, but you need to replace the other two because they were damaged or have worn out, you should replace them with a pair of tires that come as close as possible to matching your existing tires.
Tire Rack's advice is that if rain and wet roads are a concern, you should consider replacing your tires when they reach approximately 4/32 of remaining tread depth.. A typical passenger car tire has about twenty square inches of total footprint surface and begins with about 1/3 of tread depth. While it is simple to place a Lincoln penny in the tread groove of a worn tire and use Abe's likeness as a guide, we don't think Honest Abe knows what's best for today's drivers. The Lincoln penny tread depth test has been touted for years to be a suitable method of determining when it's time to get new tires
Replace the tires at least every 6 years. If you're not sure, the minimum replacement time that is recommended by the NHTSA is six years regardless of use, with 10 years being the maximum service life for tires. Check your owner's manual for specific recommendations related to your car. As the tires wear, these bars will become flush (level or even) with the tire's tread. At this point, it's time to replace the tires. 3. Check the tread by using the penny test.  Take a penny, and place it upside down with Lincoln facing you in the center of the tread (at the thickest part of the tire). 1  If you can see the very top of Lincoln's head or the copper above it, replace the tires immediately