Jejunum is the middle portion of the small intestine and lies between the duodenum and ileum. It starts at the duodenojejunal flexure on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra. In an adult human, it is approximately 2.5 m in length and 2.5 cm in diameter. The small intestine is made up of three parts including duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. Duodenum is the first part followed by jejunum and ileum. Jejunum and ileum lie in the middle of the abdominal cavity framed by the large intestine. There is no such natural line of separation to distinguish jejunum and ileum.
Jejunum: The portion of intestine between the duodenum and the ileum (small intestine). Jejunum: the part of the small intestine between the duodenum and the ileum. Source: WordNet 2.1. Jejunum: portion of the small intestine between the duodenum and the ileum. Source: CRISP. Jejunum: The middle portion of the SMALL INTESTINE, between DUODENUM and ILEUM. It represents about 2/5 of the remaining portion of the small intestine below duodenum. 
Medical Definition of JEJUNUM. : the section of the small intestine that comprises the first two fifths beyond the duodenum and that is larger, thicker-walled, and more vascular and has more circular folds and fewer Peyer's patches than the ileum.
In humans, the duodenum runs from the stomach to the jejunum, with the ileum making up the last section of the small intestine. The jejunum makes up the longest part of the small intestine. Removal of the jejunum will be performed by a surgical team with the patient under general anesthesia. The jejunum is the portion of the small intestine that absorbs nutrients into the body. Tiny projections known as villi increase the surface area of the jejunum. The jejunum is the second part of the small intestine, connecting the duodenum with the ilium. 
Jejunum: Part of the small intestine. It is half-way down the small intestine between its duodenum and ileum sections. The term jejunum derives from the Latin jejunus, which means empty of food, meager, or hungry.. The ancient Greeks noticed at death that this part of the intestine was always empty of food. Hence, the name the jejunum
Definition of JEJUNUM. : the section of the small intestine that comprises the first two fifths beyond the duodenum and that is larger, thicker-walled, and more vascular and has more circular folds than the ileum. See jejunum defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : the section of the small intestine that comprises the first two fifths beyond the duodenum and that is larger, thicker-walled, and more vascular and has more circular folds and fewer Peyer's patche
The jejunum (/dʒɨˈdʒuːnəm/) is the second part of the small intestine in humans and most higher vertebrates, including mammals, reptiles, and birds. The jejunum lies between the duodenum and the ileum. The jejunum is considered to begin at the attachment of the suspensory muscle of the duodenum to the duodenum, a location called the duodenojejunal flexure. The division between the jejunum and ileum is not anatomically distinct
Noun. 1. jejunum-the part of the small intestine between the duodenum and the ileum. small intestine-the longest part of the alimentary canal; where digestion is completed. Translations
The jejunum is the middle segment of the small intestine found between the duodenum and the ileum. Most of the nutrients present in food are absorbed by the jejunum before being passed on to the ileum for further absorption. Anatomy The jejunum is a continuation of the small intestine following the duodenum. 