The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) is a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution that would guarantee equality under the law for women. It was introduced in 1923. In 1923, Alice Paul wrote the  Lucretia Mott Amendment, which said, Men and women shall have equal rights throughout the United States and every place subject to its jurisdiction.. It was introduced annually in Congress for many years. In the 1940s, she rewrote the amendment.
Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. Section 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of ratification.
This simple sentence comprised Section 1 of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), which was first proposed in Congress by the National Women's Party in 1923. Phyllis Schlafly was perhaps the most visible opponent of the Equal Rights Amendment. Her Stop ERA campaign hinged on the belief that the ERA would eliminate laws designed to protect women and led to the eventual defeat of the amendment.
Constitutional Rights: Equal Protection  women, it can also be used to invalidate federal laws meant to promote women’s equality. Several Supreme Court cases have held that under the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution, states cannot be sued under vari-ous federal antidiscrimination laws. 
As founder of the National Women's Party, Alice Paul first introduced the Equal Rights Amendment to Congress in 1923. Paul would work for the passage of the ERA until her death in 1977. Phyllis Schlafly was perhaps the most visible opponent of the Equal Rights Amendment. Her Stop ERA campaign hinged on the belief that the ERA would eliminate laws designed to protect women and led to the eventual defeat of the amendment.
Three years after women won the right to vote, the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) is introduced in Congress by Senator Curtis and Representative Anthony, both Republicans. It is authored by Alice Paul, head of the National Women’s Party, who led the suffrage campaign. Anthony is the nephew of suffragist Susan B. Anthony. 
The Equal Rights Amendment is not yet in the U.S. Constitution. The ERA, affirming the equal application of the Constitution to all persons regardless of their sex, was written in 1923 by Alice Paul, suffragist leader and founder of the National Woman's Party. Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. Section 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of ratification.
There are currently several bills pending in Congress that would make the ERA a reality. Senator Menendez (D-NJ) and Representative Maloney (D-NY) (HJ Res 56/SJ Res 10) have introduced legislation that would propose an amendment to the constitution guaranteeing equal rights for women. HJ Res 56 has bi-partisan support. While these laws are still critical in advancing the legal rights and equality of women, we need a new and different instrument to ensure that women receive fair, just, swift treatment under the law. The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA), a constitutional amendment, would lay a sturdy framework to guarantee women’s equality. In particular, the ERA would go a long way in ensuring that survivors of domestic violence, stalking, and rape are adequately protected under the law
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution designed to guarantee equal rights for women. The ERA was originally written by Alice Paul and Crystal Eastman. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. 