About this species. Echinacea purpurea is a member of the daisy family (Compositae) or Asteraceae (APG III, 2009). The generic name comes from the Greek word for hedgehog (echinos) inspired by the spiky projections in the centre of its flower head in the seed stage. The specific epithet purpurea refers to the purple colour of the flowers.
(no common name), are members of the sunflower family or Compositae. The Compositae have two kinds of flowers combined in one flower head-strap-like ray flowers around the outside of the head and disk flowers in the center of the head. It has no common name and may be distinguished from the others by not having roughly hairy leaves, as the other three do. The Kansas Wildflower Society, the Kansas Associated Garden Clubs and Botanica, the Wichita Gardens chose Echinacea sp. as the 1998 Kansas Wildflower of the Year.
Both plants are also referred to by their genus names. Common names for echinacea include “purple coneflower,” “hedge coneflower” or “purple Echinacea.” The word echinacea comes from “echinos,” the Greek word for hedgehog. Echinacea was nicknamed after this animal due to its spikey, hair-like foliage at the base of the plant. Native to the United States, echinacea (Echinacea spp.) and rudbeckia (Rudbeckia spp.) are two genera of herbaceous flowers also known as coneflowers. Both of these plants come from the aster plant family and produce long-stemmed flowers with daisy-like petals that surround a center shaped like a cone.
Scientific name: Echinacea purpurea (L.) Moench. Common name: eastern purple coneflower, purple coneflower, echinacea, snakeroot. Conservation status: Not assessed according to IUCN Red List criteria. Habitat: Rocky open woodlands; occasionally in prairies. Key Uses: Medicine, ornamental. Echinacea purpurea is a member of the daisy family (Compositae) or Asteraceae (APG III, 2009). The generic name comes from the Greek word for hedgehog (echinos) inspired by the spiky projections in the centre of its flower head in the seed stage. The specific epithet purpurea refers to the purple colour of the flowers.
Echinacea /ˌɛkɨˈneɪʃⁱə/ is a genus, or group of herbaceous flowering plants in the daisy family. The Echinacea genus has nine species, which are commonly called purple coneflowers. They are found only in eastern and central North America, where they are found growing in moist to dry prairies and open wooded areas. They have large, showy heads of composite flowers, blooming from early to late summer. Echinacea species are herbaceous, drought-tolerant perennial plants growing up to 140 cm or 4 feet, in height. They grow from taproots, except E. purpurea, which grows from a short caudex with fibrous roots.
Echinacea is an herb. Several species of the echinacea plant are used to make medicine from its leaves, flower, and root. Echinacea is widely used to fight infections, especially the common cold and other upper respiratory infections. 1 Echinacea purpurea herb juice: a daily dose of 6-9 mL for up to a maximum of 8 weeks. 2  Echinacea purpurea herb juice has also been used in a dose of 20 drops every 2 hours for the first day followed by 20 drops three times daily until cold or flu symptoms improve.
Echinacea purpurea (eastern purple coneflower or purple coneflower) is a North American species of flowering plant in the sunflower family. 
Introduction. This fact sheet provides basic information about echinacea—common names, what the science says, potential side effects and cautions, and resources for more information. There are nine known species of echinacea, all of which are native to the United States and southern Canada. What the Science Says. 1  Study results are mixed on whether echinacea can prevent or effectively treat upper respiratory tract infections such as the common cold. 2  in adults. 3  NCCIH is continuing to support the study of echinacea for the treatment of upper respiratory infections.