South African contract law is ‘essentially a modernised version of the Roman-Dutch law of contract ’, which is itself rooted in canon and Roman laws. In the broadest definition, a contract is an agreement two or more parties enter into with the serious intention of creating a legal obligation. The terms of a contract set out the nature and details of the performance due by the parties under the contract: that is, the nature and description of the commodities or services to be rendered, and the manner, time and place of performance.
A contract for which a statute prescribes certain terms is known as a statutory contract. Statutes usually, govern the contracts made by public entities. However, some contracts by private persons are also governed by statutes. 
A mistake is an incorrect understanding by one or more parties to a contract and may be used as grounds to invalidate the agreement. Common law has identified three different types of mistake in contract: common mistake, mutual mistake, and unilateral mistake. The remedy for breach of contract can be damages in the form of compensation of money or specific performance enforced through an injunction. Both of these remedies award the party at loss the benefit of the bargain or expectation damages, which are greater than mere reliance damages, as in promissory estoppel.
Contracts are promises that the law will enforce. The law provides remedies if a promise is breached or recognizes the performance of a promise as a duty. Contracts arise when a duty does or may come into existence, because of a promise made by one of the parties. An agreement creating obligations enforceable by law. The basic elements of a contract are mutual assent, consideration, capacity, and legality.
The statute of frauds originated in 17th century England. Generally speaking, a statute of frauds requires that certain contracts be in writing and signed by the parties. For the most part, a binding contract can be oral or written. So, if all parties agree that they made a contract and are bound by the contract, the contract will remain enforceable. A minority of states automatically voids those contracts that don't meet statute of frauds requirements.
The courts may not create a contract for the parties. When the parties have no express or implied agreement on the essential terms of a contract, there is no contract. Courts are only empowered to enforce contracts, not to write them, for the parties. A contract, in order to be enforceable, must be a valid. Agreements to agree An agreement to agree is not a contract. This type of agreement is frequently employed in industries that require long-term contracts in order to ensure a constant source of supplies and outlet of production.
Statute. An act of a legislature that declares, proscribes, or commands something; a specific law, expressed in writing. A statute is a written law passed by a legislature on the state or federal level. Statutes set forth general propositions of law that courts apply to specific situations. A statute may forbid a certain act, direct a certain act, make a declaration, or set forth governmental mechanisms to aid society. When a bill becomes law, the various provisions in the bill are called statutes. The term statute signifies the elevation of a bill from legislative proposal to law. State and federal statutes are compiled in statutory codes that group the statutes by subject.
Elements of a Contract. The requisites for formation of a legal contract are an offer, an acceptance, competent parties who have the legal capacity to contract, lawful subject matter, mutuality of agreement, consideration, mutuality of obligation, and, if required under the Statute of Frauds, a writing. Agreements to agree An agreement to agree is not a contract. This type of agreement is frequently employed in industries that require long-term contracts in order to ensure a constant source of supplies and outlet of production.
Definition. An agreement creating obligations enforceable by law. The basic elements of a contract are mutual assent, consideration, capacity, and legality. In some states, the element of consideration can be satisfied by a valid substitute
A statute of frauds is a state law that applies to certain oral contracts. Generally speaking, a statute of frauds requires that certain contracts be in writing and signed by the parties. This lesson explains what these statutes are, what these statutes require and why we have these statutes. So, if all parties agree that they made a contract and are bound by the contract, the contract will remain enforceable. A minority of states automatically voids those contracts that don't meet statute of frauds requirements.