1 For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking. 4  Stir within the first 2 minutes of cooking pasta. EIGHT STEPS TO PERFECT PASTA. 1  For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking.
1 Fill a pot with one quart (1 liter) of water per serving of pasta (1/4 pound, 100 g) you plan to make, and set it to boil. 2  When the water comes to a boil, add 1 tablespoon of coarse salt (a little less if it's fine-grained) per quart of water. 3  In terms of saltiness, it should resemble sea water. Time Required: 35 minutes. Here's How: 1 
Don't rely on the package to give you the correct cooking time (this is only a guideline). Start timing when the water returns to a boil. Most pastas cook in 8 to 12 minutes. Test dry pasta for doneness after about 4 minutes of cooking by tasting it. It is difficult to give exact cooking times since different shapes and thickness of pasta will take less or more time to cook.
You can cook it as fast as the spaghetti if you wish! Brown mince, drain off fat, put onions and carrots into the pan with a little water-fast boil for about 5 minutes, add sauce and mince and stand stirring it. Will be done in about 30 minutes. Cook until onion is fragrant, about 1 minute. Stir in the beef, breaking it up with a spoon over medium-low heat, until browned, about 10 minutes. Add the salt, garlic powder and pepper to taste. Cook, stirring occasionally, about 2
Spaghetti takes about 10 minutes to cook as long as you bring the water to the boil before you add it :) hope this helps. When it's cooked, it will be more transparent and fl … oppy. Boil it for 8-10 minutes, take a strand out and try. If it's still too chewy, give it another 2 minutes, then try another strand etc... There is no real answer for how long it takes. It also varies with how hot your hob will go.
Show me a picture Cut in half, remove the seeds. Then place it cut side down in a pan and put about a half inch of water in the pan. Bake about 350 degrees for 20 to 30 minute … s. Then scrape the insides with a fork into a bowl. The bowl of squash will look like a bowl of yellow spaghetti. When it's cooked, it will be more transparent and fl … oppy. Boil it for 8-10 minutes, take a strand out and try. If it's still too chewy, give it another 2 minutes, then try another strand etc... There is no real answer for how long it takes. It also varies with how hot your hob will go.
Best Answer: Keep testing them. Pull out a few strands with a fork and if they are stiff, they need more time. When they no longer look stiff, then take one and take a bite. If there's crunch to it it's not done, if it's just a little hard in the center, then it's done. The length of time it needs to cook will depend if it's regular spaghetti noodles, thin spaghetti, vermacelli, or angel hair. Read the box, it will give you an idea as to how long to cook that particular type of noodle. Source(s): MarLo · 8 years ago