How to Grill Chicken Thighs. Place chicken on grill rack directly over medium coals. Grill, uncovered, for 12 to 15 minutes or until chicken is no longer pink (internal temperature of 180 degrees F), turning once halfway through grilling.
Grilling times: 10 to 12 min for breasts, 6 to 8 min for cutlets. Skinless, boneless chicken breast is the number-one bestseller at meat counters; it's ideal for beginning grillers because its cooking time is the easiest to predict.
Prepare your grill for high, direct heat. If you are using charcoal or wood, make sure there is a cool side to the grill where there are fewer coals. 2 Lay the chicken pieces skin side down on the hottest side of the grill in order to sear the skin side well. Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill.
How to Grill Chicken Breasts. Place chicken on the grill rack directly over medium coals. Grill, uncovered, for 12 to 15 minutes or until chicken is no longer pink (internal temperature of 170 degrees F), turning once halfway through grilling.
Step 3: Grill the chicken. Cover and grill for 25 minutes. Turn chicken over. Cover and grill for 25 to 30 minutes more or until juices run clear and an instant-read thermometer inserted in thickest part of thigh registers 180 degrees F. Remove chicken from grill and let rest for 10 minutes.
Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with!
Start by preparing your chicken pieces for the grill. You will need to look for large clumps of fat and loose, unnecessary pieces of skin. Trim these off. This will help reduce the risk of flare-ups on the grill and result in a presentable piece of chicken.
Close the top: If your grill has a cover, always cook your chicken with the cover down. It will make your grill more oven-like, and your food will cook more evenly. Also, because the cover cuts off some of the oxygen, you'll have fewer flare-ups.
This will allow the chicken to cook more evenly. Rub the chicken breasts with a little olive oil. Season you chicken with whatever seasoning you like. This could be as easy a little kosher salt and some fresh ground pepper. Place the breast on the hottest part of the grill and don't touch them for about 2 - 3 minutes.