Aerodrom taxi Podgorica is airport taxi transfer service in Montenegro. Effective professional taxi transfer company Podgorica with international experience and private chauffeured service in Montenegro.
The airport is locally known as Golubovci Airport, as it is located within the administrative boundaries of the town of Golubovci. The IATA code of the airport is still TGD because Podgorica was named T ito g ra d (after Josip Broz Tito) from 1946 to 1992, during which time the airport opened. It is the main hub for Montenegro Airlines and Di Air. [aerǒdrom pǒdɡorit͡sa]) (IATA: TGD, ICAO: LYPG) is an international airport serving the Montenegrin capital of Podgorica and the surrounding region. It is one of two international airports in Montenegro, the other being Tivat Airport
Discover Montenegro and drive with Sixt. Mirsad Cindrak (Branch Manager). Podgorica is the capital of Montenegro, located at the confluence of the Ribnica and Moraca rivers and the meeting point of the fertile Zeta Plain and Bjelopavlici Valley. Podgorica is the largest city in Montenegro and not only the administrative center of Montenegro but also its main economic engine. Most of Montenegro's industrial, financial and commercial base is in Podgorica. The city is close to winter ski centers in the north and seaside resorts on the Adriatic Sea
Podgorica Airport. We work with all the leading car hire companies at Podgorica Airport (TGD), including Avis, Europcar, Firefly, Hertz, InterRent, Sixt, Surprice. Whatever you're looking for, we can get you the very best price. 
Podgorica Airport. Podgorica-Airport is one of the major airports in Montenegro. It is an international airport with more than 0.7m passengers per year (incoming, outgoing and transit). The runways are located 14 hours away from London and from here the shortest possible connection is a 1 Stop Over flight. From the city center of Podgorica to the terminals you will need approx. 19 minutes by car, as the distance is about 7 miles. To have a look at the Podgorica-Airport Flight Information please check the Arrivals & Departures section.
The airport is situated 11 km (6.8 mi) south of central Podgorica, in the Zeta Plain, one of the few flat areas of Montenegro suitable for a large airport. [aerǒdrom pǒdɡorit͡sa]) (IATA: TGD, ICAO: LYPG) is an international airport serving the Montenegrin capital of Podgorica and the surrounding region. It is one of two international airports in Montenegro, the other being Tivat A
Taxi Podgorica Airport Montenegro. Association of professional drivers Taxi Podgorica Airport is providing transportation from Podgorica airport to all hotels and other accommodations, regional airports, and to any resort in Montenegro or abroad. VAT, toll and passenger insurance are included in all prices. Taxi Podgorica airport to Pristina, Tivat, Sarajevo, Hani Hotit-We are providing rides only with new, and comfortable vehicles, higher class, by low rates. All drivers are professional, and each of them is at least 10 years taxi driver.
Taxi from Podgorica airport to Kotor, Herceg Novi, Tirana, Ulcinj, Bar-service where you can be sure that there is no hidden costs, or any additional taxes. Prices listed in the price list are fixed amount, which you pay when you arrive at your destination. VAT, toll and passenger insurance are included in all prices. Taxi Podgorica airport to Pristina, Tivat, Sarajevo, Hani Hotit-We are providing rides only with new, and comfortable vehicles, higher class, by low rates. All drivers are professional, and each of them is at least 10 years taxi driver.