Cancers are classified in two ways: by the type of tissue in which the cancer originates (histological type) and by primary site, or the location in the body where the cancer first developed. This section introduces you to the first method: cancer classification based on histological type. 
Sarcoma is a term used to describe a whole family of cancers that arise in the body's connective tissues, which include fat, muscle, blood vessels, deep skin tissues, nerves, bones, and cartilage. Sarcoma is broken down into two types: soft tissue tumors and bone tumors. Soft tissue sarcomas come in many forms: 1  angiosarcoma (blood vessels. 2  fibrosarcoma (connective tissue). 3  gastrointestinal stromal tumor (digestive system). 4  Kaposi's sarcoma (skin). 5  liposarcoma (fat). 6  leiomyosarcoma (smooth muscle). Bone sarcomas are rare types of cancer that mainly affect children and young adults. There are several types of bone sarcomas that typically affect different parts of bones and joints. The cancerous tumors can grow in any bone in the body; however, most occur in the arms or legs. The most common bone sarcomas include:
Angiosarcoma of the breast. Angiosarcoma is a type of breast sarcoma. A sarcoma is a cancer that develops from the structural, supporting tissues of the body, such as connective tissue, bone, blood vessel or nerve tissue. Fewer than 1 in 100 breast cancers (1%) are sarcomas. 
Cancer is a group of diseases in which cells in the body grow, change, and multiply out of control. Usually, cancer is named after the body part in which it originated; thus, breast cancer refers to the erratic growth and proliferation of cells that originate in the breast tissue. Cells that spread from one region of the body into another are called metastases. The term breast cancer refers to a malignant tumor that has developed from cells in the breast. The breast is composed of two main types of tissues: glandular tissues and stromal (supporting) tissues.
Lung, breast, and colon are the most frequent cancers of this type in the United States. Sarcomas are cancers arising from cells found in the supporting tissues of the body such as bone, cartilage, fat, connective tissue, and muscle. Lymphomas are cancers that arise in the lymph nodes and tissues of the body’s immune system. 
Carcinoma is a type of cancer that develops from epithelial cells. Specifically, a carcinoma is a cancer that begins in a tissue that lines the inner or outer surfaces of the body, and that generally arises from cells originating in the endodermal or ectodermal germ layer during embryogenesis.
Soft tissue is the name for all the supporting tissues in the body, apart from the bones. They include fat, muscle, nerves, deep skin tissue, blood vessels and the tissue that surrounds joints (synovial tissue). These tissues support and connect all the organs and structures of the body. They're known as connective tissue. A soft tissue sarcoma is a rare type of cancer that forms as a painless lump (tumour) in any one of these soft tissues. They most commonly develop in the thigh, shoulder and pelvis. 
The term sarcoma comes from a Greek word meaning fleshy growth. Sarcoma arises in the connective tissue of the body. Normal connective tissue include, fat, blood vessels, nerves, bones, muscles, deep skin tissues, and cartilage. Sarcomas are divided into two main groups, bone sarcomas and soft tissue sarcomas.
Sarcoma is a very rare disease. Due to its rarity, it is crucial for patients to seek a cancer specialist in the treatment of their disease. Sarcoma arises in the connective tissue of the body. The connective tissue includes muscle, bone, fat, nerve, cartilage, blood vessel, and deep skin tissue. Connective tissue is present throughout the body, so sarcoma can occur in any location. Sarcomas are divided into two main groups: 1  bone sarcomas
Soft tissue sarcoma is a rare cancer that starts in the soft tissues of the body, such as the fat, muscles, nerves, tendons, and blood and lymph vessels. Sarcomas can happen anywhere in the body, although close to half (about 40 percent) occur in the arms and legs. 