Neuromuscular disease is a very broad term that encompasses many diseases and ailments that impair the functioning of the muscles, either directly, being pathologies of the muscle, or indirectly, being pathologies of nerves or neuromuscular junctions. Neuromuscular diseases are those that affect the muscles and/or their direct nervous system control.
Symptoms include general muscle weakness and possible joint deformities; disease progresses slowly; shortened life span. Duchenne. 2 to 6 years. Symptoms include general muscle weakness and wasting; affects pelvis, upper arms, and upper legs; eventually involves all voluntary muscles; survival beyond 20s is rare. 
A Muscle Disease is defined by some typical set of symptoms that are found across most types of muscular diseases. These include progressive weakness of the muscles, pain in the limbs, undue lethargy or exhaustion, cramping or stiffness of certain muscle groups, stiff joints and uncoordinated body movements. 1 Typical symptoms of DM include muscular weakness among the thighs, hips, upper arms, back and shoulders. 2  Polymyositis (PM). 3  Polymyositis is a muscle disease that causes widespread inflammation of muscles and usually occurs after the age of 20 years.
Symptoms of muscle disease may include muscular weakness, rigidity, loss of muscular control, myoclonus (twitching, spasming), and myalgia (muscle pain). Neuromuscular diseases are those that affect the muscles and/or their direct nervous system control.
Other types of muscular dystrophy. Some types of muscular dystrophy are defined by a specific feature or by where in the body symptoms first begin. Examples include: 1  Myotonic. 2  Also known as Steinert's disease, this form is characterized by an inability to relax muscles at will following contractions. Signs and symptoms typically appear between the ages of 2 and 3, and may include: 1  Frequent falls. 2  Difficulty getting up from a lying or sitting position. 3  Trouble running and jumping. 4  Waddling gait. 5  Walking on the toes. 6  Large calf muscles.
The severity of mitochondrial disease symptoms is different from person to person. The most common symptoms are: 1  Poor growth. 2  Loss of muscle coordination, muscle weakness. 3  Neurological problems, seizures. 4  Autism, autistic spectrum, autistic-like features. 5  Visual and/or hearing problems. 6  Developmental delays, learning disabilities. 7  Heart, liver or kidney disease. 8  Gastrointestinal disorders, severe constipation. 
Muscle symptoms can also accompany serious conditions that can even be life threatening, such as severe dehydration, spinal cord injury, or stroke. Muscle symptoms can be a sign of a serious disease, disorder or condition, such as muscular dystrophy, an infection of the muscles, or a pinched nerve. Seek prompt medical attention if your muscle symptoms are persistent or causing you concern. I was in excruciating pain…and you rescued me. Any type of muscle can produce symptoms when affected by various diseases, disorders and conditions. These include infection, trauma, autoimmune diseases, neurological and muscular disorders, malignancy (cancer), and even some medications. Muscle symptoms can also involve the ligaments, tendons and fascia, which is the soft tissue that connects the muscles, bones and organs
About one-third of boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy don't have a family history of the disease, possibly because the gene involved may be subject to sudden abnormal change (spontaneous mutation). Signs and symptoms typically appear between the ages of 2 and 3, and may include: 1  Frequent falls. 2  Difficulty getting up from a lying or sitting position. 3  Trouble running and jumping. 4  Waddling gait. 5  Walking on the toes. 6  Large calf muscles.