Perceptual mapping is a marketing research technique used to compare different product brands across the two or more dimensions. A typical technique is to map the similarities between the products perceived by the research subjects. Definition. Perceptual mapping is a marketing research technique where you attempt to determine how different product brands are perceived by consumers when mapped-or compared-against two or more product dimensions. Two common approaches used in perceptual mapping are the collection of similarity data and preference data
1 Perceptual mapping is a graphics technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. 2  Typically the position of a product, product line, brand, or company is displayed relative to their competition. 1 YOGESH. 2  RAJKUMAR. 3  SHEKHAR. 4  Perceptual mapping is a graphics technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. 5
For a perceptual map to be most useful, each axis needs to measure attributes that consumers actually use in making a purchasing decision. Typically, the way businesses find out how customers and potential customers view their products/brands and competitors' product/brands is to survey the customers. The purpose of a perceptual map is to identify the images that consumers have of and the reactions they have to brands, products, services and other market offerings.
Market researchers use perceptual mapping to compare products (and potential products) based on the perceptions of customers. The purpose of a perceptual map is to identify the images that consumers have of and the reactions they have to brands, products, services and other market offerings.
Perceptual mapping is a diagrammatic technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. Displaying consumers’ perceptions of related products is only half the story. Many perceptual maps also display consumers’ ideal points. These points reflect ideal combinations of the two dimensions as seen by a consumer. The next diagram shows a study of consumers’ ideal points in the alcohol/spirits product space.
A perceptual map is of the visual technique designed to show how the average target market consumer understands the positioning of the competing products in the marketplace. In other words, it is a tool that attempts to map the consumer’s perceptions and understandings in a diagram. The word ‘perceptual’ comes from the word ‘perception’, which basically refers to the consumers’ understanding of the competing products and their associated attributes. You will note that both definitions highlight that the information is visually presented on some form of graph or display. And that a perceptual map is designed to examine consumer perceptions and understanding, primarily of products and their associated positioning.
1 Perceptual mapping is also called positioning map which helps you to develop a marketing positioning strategy for you product or services. 2  perceptual maps or positioning maps as they are sometimes referred to, are often used to help the organization identify a positioning strategy. 1 YOGESH. 2  RAJKUMAR. 3  SHEKHAR. 4  Perceptual mapping is a graphics technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. 5  Typically the position of a product, product line, brand, or company is displayed relative to their competition.
Perceptual maps are an important element in determining marketing strategy for your firm. First, what are perceptual maps. According to Wikipedia, Perceptual mapping is a graphics technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. Typically the position of a product, product line, brand, or company is displayed relative to their competition. How to Build Perceptual Maps. by Angela Hausman. Perceptual mapping is a graphics technique used by asset marketers that attempts to visually display the perceptions of customers or potential customers. Typically the position of a product, product line, brand, or company is displayed relative to their competition.