Basically, I no longer let it thaw out overnight in the fridge. Instead I will quick thaw it by placing the salmon in a pan and running cold water over it, which allows it to thaw in 10 minutes or so. Then I will dry it off with a paper towel, and proceed to place it in a glass oven pan, after I pour a fair amount of Organic Coconut Oil on the bottom of the pan. I also learned that if you cook it in a frying pan on the top of a stove with liberal coconut oil after thawing, as opposed to baking, and have the heat under the frying pan very low, for my stove the it is all the way down low, to the point where it is almost turned off.
Tips & Warnings. 1  You can refreeze salmon after defrosting it in the refrigerator if you do so within three days of thawing. 2  Do not thaw salmon at room temperature as this can cause food-borne illness. For the best results, plan ahead and thaw it in the refrigerator the day before you plan to cook it. The microwave leaves partially cooked patches that can become tough and dry, so it's not a recommended method, but you can thaw frozen salmon in cold water on short notice without any appreciable loss of quality.
1. Remove your salmon from the freezer approximately 12 hours before you plan to cook it. For quantities over 1 lb. (454 g), remove the salmon 24 hours before you plan to cook it. 4. Put the bowl on a flat surface in the refrigerator, away from foods that will soak up the smell of the salmon. The refrigerator should be kept between 35 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 4.4 degrees Celsius), in order to inhibit the growth of micro organisms.
6. Remove the fish after it is fully thawed and cook immediately. 1  If you are thawing salmon that was frozen in a block of ice, run cold water over the fish until all the ice chunks are removed. 2  Then cover the fish in plastic wrap, place it in a pan and leave it in the refrigerator for 6 to 12 hours. 4. Put the bowl on a flat surface in the refrigerator, away from foods that will soak up the smell of the salmon. The refrigerator should be kept between 35 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 4.4 degrees Celsius), in order to inhibit the growth of micro organisms.
ANSWER: It depends on the total weight of the fish and the thickness. Either way, take the fish and put inside a zip-lock bag and immerse in warm, not hot water and it will thaw faster. About 10-30 minutes depending on quantity. If in the refrigerator, as long as 2-3 hours. in the refrigerator it will take at least 24 hrs all the way to 2 days... you can also thaw in cold water but water must be changed every 30 mins.... DONT NOT USE HOT WA … TER WILL CREATE BACTERIA GROWTH!!!
1 If you are thawing salmon that was frozen in a block of ice, run cold water over the fish until all the ice chunks are removed. 2  Then cover the fish in plastic wrap, place it in a pan and leave it in the refrigerator for 6 to 12 hours. 4. Put the bowl on a flat surface in the refrigerator, away from foods that will soak up the smell of the salmon. The refrigerator should be kept between 35 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 to 4.4 degrees Celsius), in order to inhibit the growth of micro organisms.
Overnight Thawing. Place the salmon in a 40 degrees Fahrenheit or cooler refrigerator. Thaw the fish overnight before cooking it. You can store the thawed salmon in the refrigerator for up to three days. For the best results, plan ahead and thaw it in the refrigerator the day before you plan to cook it. The microwave leaves partially cooked patches that can become tough and dry, so it's not a recommended method, but you can thaw frozen salmon in cold water on short notice without any appreciable loss of quality.