SPS Commerce. SPS Commerce is a U.S. company that provides cloud-based supply chain management software to retailers, suppliers, third-party logistics providers and partners. The company was founded in 1987. The company’s headquarters are located in Minneapolis, Minnesota. see more on Definitions.net ». 
In 2015, the Minneapolis Star Tribune reported that SPS Commerce was ranked by WorkplaceDynamics as the best large workplace in Minnesota. SPS was also ranked among the top 10 fastest growing publicly traded companies in Minnesota in 2014. After the sale, the company primarily offered Internet-based business-to-business exchanges for retailers and manufacturers. St. Paul Software was renamed SPS Commerce in May 2001. SPS Commerce went public in April 2010 when it debuted on the NASDAQ global market.
SPS Commerce is not a VAN. Sterling Commerce is our VAN, and SPS Commerce is our testing and certificationpartner. You will be required to test your maps with SPS Commerce, but you can continue to use any VAN youchose. Production orders using the current maps will continue during the testing. SPS Commerce will provide specifictesting partnership qualifiers and id for this testing initiative. Once testing is completed, you will coordinate withBCF to turn on the new transactions in production.
SPS Commerce sharpens omnichannel retail supply chains allowing business to advance at the pace of the consumer through a collaborative network community and the latest in cloud-based solutions. We’re the retail industry’s largest trading community with more than 60,000 customers in over 60 countries. Tens of thousands of partners across the globe trust us to perfect their trading partner relationships.
Please read this email string below, in it's entirety, BEFORE making SPS Commerce your companies outsourced EDI (Electronic Document Interchange) solution. This should serve as a review of SPS Commerce, exposing their limitations and how effective their testing will be. It is impossible for me to explain just how bad SPS Commerce is at what they try to do with automated document testing solutions so I will let the email below speak for itself. 
In 2000, the company sold its software business to Netherlands-based TIE Commerce. After the sale, the company primarily offered Internet-based business-to-business exchanges for retailers and manufacturers. St. Paul Software was renamed SPS Commerce in May 2001. SPS Commerce went public in April 2010 when it debuted on the NASDAQ global market. Soon after, the company acquired San Diego-based EDI services company Direct EDI for $10.9m, adding 40 employees in a San Diego office and a development group in Ukrain
SPS Commerce perfects the power of your trading partner relationships with the industry’s most broadly adopted, enterprise retail cloud services platform. 
SPS Commerce. SPS Commerce is a U.S. company that provides cloud-based supply chain management software to retailers, suppliers, third-party logistics providers and partners. The company was founded in 1987. The company’s headquarters are located in Minneapolis, Minnesota
Hello and thank you for your interest in becoming EDI compliant for SPS Commerce. You are on the right path to become EDI compliant to trade documents with SPS Commerce. B2BGateway offers fully-integrated EDI for SPS Commerce and can connect to many of the popular accounting packages and ERPs used today such as NetSuite, QuickBooks, Sage, Intacct and others. Please check our Accounting / ERP tab to learn more.