Yes, as long as you are a qualified applicant (see above) and the death certificate has been registered. Your order will be held until the certificate is registered. If you have not received the certificate within 10 days of placing your order, call (702) 759-1010 to check on the status. Once payment is received the death certificate will be printed and sent to you via standard mail. If you have not received the certificate within 10 days of paying for
Many of 11,000 cases investigated by medical examiners each year languish for months. Matt McCall, register of deeds for Iredell County, grew so upset over how long it took to get death certificates that he sent the governor’s office a letter in 2013 on behalf of one family. Francine Braun Wolberg of Winston-Salem had to wait more than 15 months for autopsy results after her husband died unexpectedly on June 11, 2014.
The easiest way to get copies of a death certificate is to ask the person or organization that files the certificate to order them for you at the time of the death. If you are the executor of the estate, you should ask for at least ten certified copies. You may need to obtain copies of a death certificate for a number of reasons. You might simply want a copy for your personal records or, if you are in charge of wrapping up the deceased person’s affairs, you may require multiple, official copies to carry out your job.
If the time of death has passed and you need to order death certificates yourself, contact the county or state vital records office. For deaths that occurred within the past few months, you should start with the county office, because it is more likely to have the certificate on file. After a few months have passed, the state office will probably have it, too. You will have to pay for each copy of the death certificate. The cost depends on your state, but you might expect to pay $10 or $15 for the first copy. If you order additional copies at the same time, they will probably be less expensive.
Grieving families face long wait for death certificates. Back to Gallery. It's been more than three months since David Madfes' wife was killed when a car hit the couple as they walked to their home in San Francisco's West Portal neighborhood after an evening out. The reason: It took the medical examiner's office 16 weeks to declare a cause of death. It's really a nightmare for people who go through this kind of thing, said Madfes, 70. The certificate must includ
Here is how it is done in Pennsylvania: As far as I can see, the only option for obtaining birth or death records from 1906 or later is to submit a mail request to the Division of Vital Records. The website above states that you should receive the record (if present) within 12-14 weeks after they process your payment. 
If you are amending a birth, death, or marriage record and have paid for a certified copy of the amended record, refer to the processing timeframes below for amendments. 1  Birth, Death, Fetal Death Records - 11 Business Days (updated 9/28/15). 
In the two months since my mother's death I have needed a death certificate for: 1) social security administration 2) retirement system that was paying benefits 3) two of dece … dent's creditors 4) one of decedent's utilities. This probably varies from state to state. How long does it take to get a death certificate in the state of ne? If you go to the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services in person, you can get a death certificate in about 30 minutes. If you order it by regular mail, it will take … 10 to 15 working days. If you order it using an expedited service, it will be processed in 1 or 2 working days