Annealing. Some metals exhibit annealing colors when heated. The color depends strongly on the temperature to which it is heated. Annealed markings can be generated by using the laser beam to heat the workpiece to a certain temperature where the marking should appear. This creates oxide layers on the surface whose composition determines the colored appearance
Annealing marking is when an oxide layer is created on ferrous metals (iron, steel, high-grade steel) and titanium through localized heating. Generally, the oxide layer is black, but it can also have other annealing colors (such as yellow, red and green). The color depends on the temperature of the heated layers. The material surface remains even during annealing because nothing is removed from it; the color change is achieved through localized material heating only. The heat usually penetrates 20 to 30 µm deep in the metal surface.
Laser Annealing. Laser Annealing is a surface heat-tempering mark. The heat effect of the laser beam causes an oxidation process underneath the material surface, resulting in a color change on the metal surface. 
Annealing marking is a special type of laser etching for metals. The heat effect of the laser beam causes an oxidation process underneath the material surface, resulting in a color change on the metal surface. At the same time, marking with the laser ensures constant high-quality results. Durable marking Laser etching is permanent and at the same time resistant to abrasion, heat and acids. Depending on the laser parameter settings, certain materials can also be marked without damaging the surface.
What is the difference between laser fiber annealing vs marking? Watch this video and find-out! CNCROi.com is a professional custom CNC shop based in Canada that can engrave, etch, mark, anneal and cut any material for any application in addition to custom design / build solutons. 
Just looking at the cards, you can see right away what was laser marked vs annealed. Annealing gives a rich black finish on 304 stainless steel (light reflection is making it look non-black in the photos) while marking doesn’t – it can vary from dark brown to an almost light grey polished look. At the shop, we do a lot of steel tag laser marking and annealing so I thought it would be fun to cover the differences between these two distinctive processes but first, let’s take a look as a physical sample of each.
Sub Text 8. High-precision marking at constant quality Thanks to the high precision of laser marking, even very delicate graphics, 1-point fonts and very small geometries will turn out clearly legible. At the same time, marking with the laser ensures constant high-quality results. Durable marking Laser etching is permanent and at the same time resistant to abrasion, heat and acids. Depending on the laser parameter settings, certain materials can also be marked without damaging the surface.
Annealing marking. When metal is heated, its color is altered due to an annealing effect. This effect is created because of structural changes in the outer metal layer. The laser allows the creation of areas and structures / textures on the workpiece surface in different colors without the use of additives. The table on the right shows examples of different annealing colors of unalloyed tool steel.
As you can see, laser marking produces a non-black result, the tolerances for marking vs annealing are significantly higher meaning I have a lot more play marking metals with my fiber lens even if the surface is uneven, something that’s incredibly challenging annealing. At the shop, we do a lot of steel tag laser marking and annealing so I thought it would be fun to cover the differences between these two distinctive processes but first, let’s take a look as a physical sample of each.