acromegaly. abnormal enlargement of the extremities of the skeleton due to overgrowth of connective tissue and increased appositional growth of bone caused by hypersecretion of growth hormone (GH) from the pituitary gland in adults. n (Marie's disease), a condition caused by hyperfunction of the pituitary gland in adults. Characterized by enlargement of the skeletal extremities, including the feet, hands, mandible, and nose. Acromegaly.
pituitary dwarfism. caused by hyposecretion of growth hormone by pituitary gland at an early age, it slows growth and causes short and proportional stature; it is a congenital condition that can be treated during childhood with growth hormone therapy.
excessive enlargement of the limbs due to thickening of bones and soft tissues, caused by hypersecretion of growth hormone, usually from a tumor of the pituitary gland. In adults whose bone growth has stopped, the bones most affected are those of the face, jaw, hands, and feet (see accompanying illustration). n (Marie's disease), a condition caused by hyperfunction of the pituitary gland in adults. Characterized by enlargement of the skeletal extremities, including the feet, hands, mandible, and nose. Acromegaly.
excessive enlargement of the limbs due to thickening of bones and soft tissues, caused by hypersecretion of growth hormone, usually from a tumor of the pituitary gland. In adults whose bone growth has stopped, the bones most affected are those of the face, jaw, hands, and feet (see accompanying illustration). n (Marie's disease), a condition caused by hyperfunction of the pituitary gland in adults. Characterized by enlargement of the skeletal extremities, including the feet, hands, mandible, and nose.
Hypersecretion of growth hormone: increased production of growth hormone from the pituitary gland. See detailed information below for a list of 2 causes of Hypersecretion of growth hormone, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 1 Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Endocrine symptoms (2 causes). 2  Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Female genital symptoms (2 causes). 3  Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Female reproductive symptoms (2 causes). 4  Hypersecretion of growth hormone and Female sexu
a chronic metabolic condition in adults caused by oversecretion of growth hormones by the pituitary gland. It is characterized by gradual, marked soft tissue enlargement and widening and thickening of skeletal bones in the face, jaw, hands, and feet. Hypertrophy of the vocal cords leads to deepening of the voice. n (Marie's disease), a condition caused by hyperfunction of the pituitary gland in adults. Characterized by enlargement of the skeletal extremities, including the feet, hands, mandible, and nose. Acromegaly.
abnormal enlargement of the extremities of the skeleton due to overgrowth of connective tissue and increased appositional growth of bone caused by hypersecretion of growth hormone (GH) from the pituitary gland in adults. n (Marie's disease), a condition caused by hyperfunction of the pituitary gland in adults. Characterized by enlargement of the skeletal extremities, including the feet, hands, mandible, and nose.
a chronic metabolic condition in adults caused by oversecretion of growth hormones by the pituitary gland. It is characterized by gradual, marked soft tissue enlargement and widening and thickening of skeletal bones in the face, jaw, hands, and feet. Hypertrophy of the vocal cords leads to deepening of the voice. n (Marie's disease), a condition caused by hyperfunction of the pituitary gland in adults. Characterized by enlargement of the skeletal extremities, including the feet, hands, mandible, and nose.