However, the OSU-Noble Foundation research demonstrated otherwise. The scientists vaccinated calves at 67 days of age and re-vaccinated them at weaning – 190 days – and then compared those animals with others vaccinated at 167 days of age and given a second vaccine at 190 days, at the time of weaning. 
Cows being calved through a corral-shed system or if you have had scour problems should be vaccinated with ScourGuard 4kc, ScourBos 4 or 9 or Guardian 6-8 weeks pre-calving. Heifers will need one dose 6-8 weeks pre-calving and a second dose one month prior to calving. 3-6 weeks prior to weaning or shipping all calves should be given Pyramid 5 with Presponse SQ and Ultrabac 7 with Somubac. Calves being retained at weaning: Calves at weaning should be given a second dose of Pyramid 5.
A shot of vitamin A, D, K, and Selenium (only if the area is Se-deficient), and other vitamins and minerals that may be needed. Later on, when the calf is around 8 to 16 weeks of age (or earlier if needed), a Blackleg or 8- or 9-way Clostridial vaccine should be administered. When the calves are around 6 months of age, a vaccination of IBR, BVD, PI3 and BRSV is also recommended. Killed vaccines should be given at pre-weaning. At or after weaning time, you can give them MLV (modified live virus) vaccines, though there are a few products of MLV vaccines that are approved for pre-weaned calves. Heifers should be given a Brucellosis (or Bang's Disease) vaccine when they are around 2 to 10 months old. Lepto (5-way) should only be given if your herd has a history of calves getting sick or lost from Lepto.
1 A booster vaccination 12 months later should provide lifelong immunity to blackleg. 2  It is desirable to give the initial two doses of vaccine before young cattle reach their most susceptible age of six months. Although blackleg has been found in cattle as young as 2 months old, most losses occur in cattle between 6 months and 2 years of age.
Heifers should be vaccinated with PregGuard FP10 30-60 days prior to breeding. Vaccinating with PregGuard FP10 less than 30 days prior to breeding will cause enough inflammation in the ovaries to prevent conception in the first cycle for some of the heifers. 3-6 weeks prior to weaning or shipping all calves should be given Pyramid 5 with Presponse SQ and Ultrabac 7 with Somubac. Calves being retained at weaning: Calves at weaning should be given a second dose of Pyramid 5.
The foundation for each vaccination approach discussed below is the administration a 7- or 8-way clostridial vaccine at 2 to 3 months of age (branding), plus a modified-live virus (MLV) vaccine given at the same time for viruses commonly associated with bovine respiratory disease (BRD) complex. Option B is designed for calves processed 3 to 4 weeks before weaning, then shipped the day of weaning. This option is preferable to Option C because it allows time for the calves to maximize immunity in response to the booster vaccinations they received 3 to 4 weeks before weaning.
Among the various classes of cattle and calves, calves aged from 22 days through weaning were the animals vaccinated most commonly; 62.3 percent of operations vaccinated some calves in this age group for some disease agent. 
Strain RB51 vaccine must be administered by an accredited veterinarian or by a State or Federal animal health official. Calves must be vaccinated with the calf dose (10 to 34 billion organisms) between 4 and 12 months of age. Only animals in high risk areas should be vaccinated over 12 months of age. Vaccinates must be identified with the standard metal vaccination eartag and a vaccination tattoo. 
Many producers don't give clostridial vaccines to calves until they are at least 3 to 4 months of age, and then we try to make sure they get a booster after that. If a herd has a history of problems in young calves, we recommend clostridial vaccines be given soon after birth, Alley says. Vaccinating with these antigens should be discussed with your veterinarian before using them in young calves. As long as the passive transfer is still strong, the calf may not build its own immunity. Some vaccines have been shown to provide some immunity at an early age, even in the presence of maternal antibodies.
1 Two vaccinations 1 month apart are essential to provide the best protection. 2  A booster vaccination 12 months later should provide lifelong immunity to blackleg. 3  It is desirable to give the initial two doses of vaccine before young cattle reach their most susceptible age of six months. Although blackleg has been found in cattle as young as 2 months old, most losses occur in cattle between 6 months and 2 years of age.