1 Maximum of 3 people per room in our Lodge Double, 2 people in all other room types. 2  Rates based on double occupancy. 3  Additional charge of $50.00 for the third person. 4  Rates do not include 5% Goods & Services Tax, 4% Tourism Levy and 2% Banff & Lake Louise Tourism Improvement Fee. All cancellations are subject to a $50.00 administrative fee. Cancellations received within 14 days of arrival will be held toward a one year credit at Moraine Lake Lodge. Balance of stay is due upon arrival and early check-out room(s) will not be reimbursed.
From the top of the pass, it is 11 km to Moraine Lake Road, and another 10 km by road or trail back to Moraine Lake or another 4 km on to Lake Louise by trail. Eiffel Lake. The first part of this trail is the same as the Larch Valley Trail. The left hand fork at the Larch Valley trail junction (km 2.4) leads to Eiffel Lake, 3.2 km away, by following the top of a lateral moraine well above the trees.
The convenience of learning about the distance between Lake Louise to Moraine Lake is very helpful while traveling, which is, 14 kms (9.00 miles) . Along with this, we become aware of the Travel Time from Lake Louise to Moraine Lake is 0 hour(s) 17 min(s); without much hassle. The journey can be customized by adding the stop over for having food or may be staying overnight in case of long journeys. The step by step navigation available helps to reach the place without any disturbance. The driving directions are elucidated well which supports in the journey. The detailed Road Map from Lake Louise to Moraine Lake is very compliant in the far-reaching expedition.
For the type of lake, see moraine-dammed lake. Moraine Lake is a glacially-fed lake in Banff National Park, 14 kilometres (8.7 mi) outside the Village of Lake Louise, Alberta, Canada. It is situated in the Valley of the Ten Peaks, at an elevation of approximately 6,183 feet (1,885 m). The lake has a surface area of .5 square kilometres (0.19 sq mi). The lake, being glacially fed, does not reach its crest until mid to late June.
The sister lake to Lake Louise, in its setting encircled by mountains, is a scene familiar to many from the back of the Canadian $20 bill. From the turnoff on Lake Louise Drive, a 12.5 km drive, closed in winter, takes you to the lake with a number of viewpoints along the way. The Great Divide runs across the tops of the jagged peaks behind the lake. Stoney Indian names were originally given to the 10 peaks by 19th century mountaineers. The first part of this trail is the same as the Larch Valley Trail. The left hand fork at the Larch Valley trail junction (km 2.4) leads to Eiffel Lake, 3.2 km away, by following the top of a lateral moraine well above the trees.
On this sightseeing tour you will visit the Jewel of the Canadian Rockies, Lake Louise, and the world renowned Moraine Lake, both of which are part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site. You will have time to take photos and explore their shorelines. 1 Castle Mountain: Learn how this local landmark got its name. 2  Lake Louise: Take a stroll on the lake shore and visit the famous Chateau. 3  Moraine Lake: Walk up the rock pile and stroll the shoreline.
Tell us! Situated on a lake, this romantic lodge is 0 mi (0 km) from Moraine Lake and within 12 mi (20 km) of Lake Louise Mountain Resort and Plain of Six Glaciers Teahouse. Lake Louise Gondola is 10.7 mi (17.3 km) away. Get an overview of this hotel Romantic lodge with 2 restaurants and free breakfast. Situated on a lake, this romantic lodge is 0 mi (0 km) from Moraine Lake and within 12 mi (20 km) of Lake Louise Mountain Resort and Plain of Six Glaciers Teahouse.
Lake Louise is known as the Jewel of the Canadian Rockies. Tour Lake Louise and the world renowned Moraine Lake, both of which are part of our UNESCO World Heritage Site. 1 Castle Mountain: Learn how this local landmark got its name. 2  Lake Louise: Take a stroll on the lake shore and visit the famous Chateau. 3  Moraine Lake: Walk up the rock pile and stroll the shoreline.
1 Rates do not include 5% Goods & Services Tax, 4% Tourism Levy and 2% Banff & Lake Louise Tourism Improvement Fee. 2  A deposit equal to the room rates plus taxes is due upon booking and will be applied to the last night of the visit. 3  Cancellations received 14 days from date of arrival subject to a $50 Administration fee. All cancellations are subject to a $50.00 administrative fee. Cancellations received within 14 days of arrival will be held toward a one year credit at Moraine Lake Lodge. Balance of stay is due upon arrival and early check-out room(s) will not be reimbursed.