Designated fund balance accounts are reported as part of the unreserved fund balance. There are basically three groups of funds in governmental accounting; governmental funds, proprietary funds, and fiduciary funds. 2. The equity accounts in governmental accounting are referred to as fund balance. The fund balance accounts are more of a balancing item as contrasted to rights of owners in a business enterprise. The fund balance accounts can be divided into unreserved fund balance accounts and reserved fund balance account
Fund accounting is an accounting system emphasizing accountability rather than profitability, used by non-profit organizations and governments. In this system, a fund is a self-balancing set of accounts, segregated for specific purposes in accordance with laws and regulations or special restrictions and limitations. Fiduciary funds are used to account for assets held in trust by the government for the benefit of individuals or other entities. The employee pension fund, created by the State of Maryland to provide retirement benefits for its employees, is an example of a fiduciary fund.
Non-commercial accounting in which budgets and encumbrances form parts of the accounts, and assets are restricted for specified purposes. Called public finance accounting in the UK. 
1. In governmental accounting the resources of the government are accounted for in funds. Funds are defined as an independent accounting entity with a self-balancing set of accounts. In other words, within each fund, the basic accounting equation (Assets = Liabilities + Equity) still applies. 2. The equity accounts in governmental accounting are referred to as fund balance. The fund balance accounts are more of a balancing item as contrasted to rights of owners in a business enterprise. The fund balance accounts can be divided into unreserved fund balance accounts and reserved fund balance account
Governmental accounting is an umbrella term which refers to the various accounting systems used by various public sector entities. In the United States, for instance, there are two levels of government which follow different accounting standards set forth by independent, private sector boards. At the federal level, the Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) sets forth the accounting standards to follow. Similarly, there is the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) for state and local level government. The governmental accounting system has a different focus for measuring accounting than private sector accounting. Rather than measuring the flow of economic resources, governmental accounting measures the flow of financial resources.
DEFINITION of 'Government Accounting Standards Board-GASB'. An organization whose main purpose is to improve and create accounting reporting standards or generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These standards make it easier for users to understand and use the financial records of both state and local governments. BREAKING DOWN 'Government Accounting Standards Board-GASB'. While the state and local governments follow the standards created by the GASB, the federal government reports according to the standards set by the Federal Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
The Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) is funded and monitored by the Financial Accounting Foundation (FAF). BREAKING DOWN 'Government Accounting Standards Board-GASB'. While the state and local governments follow the standards created by the GASB, the federal government reports according to the standards set by the Federal Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
DEFINITION of 'Appropriation Account'. A governmental accounting term. The appropriation account is the account of any governmental agency that receives a credit. An appropriation account is reduced by the costs incurred by the agency to perform the task or complete the project for which the credit was given. Next Up
State and local governments have two other groups of self-balancing accounts which are not considered funds: general fixed assets and general long-term debts. These assets and liabilities belong to the government entity as a whole, rather than any specific fund. Fiduciary funds are used to account for assets held in trust by the government for the benefit of individuals or other entities. The employee pension fund, created by the State of Maryland to provide retirement benefits for its employees, is an example of a fiduciary fund.