Pretibial myxedema (PTM) or, more appropriately, thyroid dermopathy is a term used to describe localized lesions of the skin resulting from the deposition of hyaluronic acid, usually as a component of thyroid disease. 
Myxedema or myxoedema is a term used synonymously with severe hypothyroidism. It is also used to describe a dermatological change that can occur in hypothyroidism, and some forms of hyperthyroidism. This article discusses the dermatological changes. In this context, myxedema refers to deposition of mucopolysaccharides in the dermis, which results in swelling of the affected area. One manifestation of myxedema occurring in the lower limb is pretibial myxedema, a hallmark of Graves disease, an autoimmune form of hyperthyroidism. Myxedema can occur in Hashimoto's thyroiditis and other long-standing forms of hypothyroidism, as well as Graves disease. Myxedema is known to occur in various forms of hypothyroidism, and also in Graves' disease. One of the hallmarks of Grave's disease is pretibial myxedema, myxoedema of the lower limb. Myxedema is more common in women than in men.
The term myxedema has been applied to several clinical entities and is often used interchangeably with severe hypothyroidism, the common clinical condition in which the thyroid gland produces abnormally low levels of hormones. Myxedema coma is a rare consequence of untreated hypothyroidism. International. In areas in which the population ingests sufficient iodine, the most common cause of hypothyroidism is autoimmune thyroid disease and thyroid ablation therapy, with a prevalence of approximately 8% of women aged 50 years or older.
Background. The term myxedema has been applied to several clinical entities and is often used interchangeably with severe hypothyroidism, the common clinical condition in which the thyroid gland produces abnormally low levels of hormones. Myxedema also refers to 2 different dermatologic conditions. Myxedema coma is a rare consequence of untreated hypothyroidism. International. In areas in which the population ingests sufficient iodine, the most common cause of hypothyroidism is autoimmune thyroid disease and thyroid ablation therapy, with a prevalence of approximately 8% of women aged 50 years or older.
myxedema coma an often fatal complication of long-term hypothyroidism in which the patient is comatose with hypothermia, depression of respiration, bradycardia, and hypotension; usually seen in elderly patients during cold weather. coma vigil locked-in syndrome. Myxedema. Myxedema coma A complication of severe hypothyroidism, characterized by a loss of consciousness, which may be iatrogenic–sedatives in hypothyroidism are very slowly metabolized, may be due to infections or cold exposure; or rarely, occurring spontaneously Mortality 20-50%.
myxedema. [mik′sədē′mə]. Etymology: Gk, myxa, mucus, oidema, swelling. the most severe form of hypothyroidism. It is characterized by swelling of the hands, face, feet, and periorbital tissues and may lead to coma and death. If the patient has heart disease, it may worsen. Upset of the functions of the adrenal glands may become critical. In time, if myxedema is not brought under control, progressive mental deterioration may result in a psychosis marked by paranoid delusions.
Myxedema Coma or Crisis ». The term myxedema has been applied to several clinical entities and is often used interchangeably with severe hypothyroidism, the common clinical condition in which the thyroid gland produces abnormally low levels of hormones. The thyroid gland, located at the front part of the neck, is responsible for making substances called thyroid hormones that are important for all body cells to work properly. In certain conditions, the thyroid becomes underactive and produces fewer amounts of its hormones, a situation called hypothyroidism.
Myxedema coma, the extreme manifestation of hypothyroidism, is an uncommon but potentially lethal condition. Patients with hypothyroidism may exhibit a number of physiologic alterations to compensate for the lack of thyroid hormone. When only comatose patients are considered, myxedema coma is exceedingly rare: one study reports 200 cases between 1953 and 1996. 3 Applying a broader definition results in a significantly higher number of cases.
Medical Definition of MYXEDEMA. : severe hypothyroidism characterized by firm inelastic edema, dry skin and hair, and loss of mental and physical vigor. — myx·ede·ma·tous \-ˈde-mə-təs, -ˈdē-\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT
Myxedema may be caused by lack of iodine in the diet; by atrophy, surgical removal, or a disorder of the thyroid gland; by destruction of the gland by radioactive iodine; or by deficient excretion of thyrotropin by the pituitary gland. If the patient has heart disease, it may worsen. Upset of the functions of the adrenal glands may become critical. In time, if myxedema is not brought under control, progressive mental deterioration may result in a psychosis marked by paranoid delusions.