Oregano (US /ɔːˈrɛɡənoʊ/ or /əˈrɛɡənoʊ/ ; UK /ˌɒrɪˈɡɑːnoʊ/ ; scientific name Origanum vulgare) is a common species of Origanum, a genus of the mint family (Lamiaceae). It is native to warm-temperate western and southwestern Eurasia and the Mediterranean region. 
Types of Oregano. To most Americans, oregano is simply the seasoning on pizza or spaghetti. But to botanists, the word oregano can be a real headache. More than 40 plants in four botanical families go by the name oregano. Many have similar taste but have different medicinal qualities and different potencies. Thus oregano more properly refers to a flavor rather than one particular plant.
Although it is called marjoram, pot marjoram (Origanum onites) is a species of oregano. It has a sharp flavor that is stronger than other types when its leaves are used fresh. Pot marjoram is a shrubby perennial, growing to 2 feet tall with small gray-green leaves. 
When cooks and gardeners refer to the herb known as oregano, they may have several different plants in mind. Less hardy than true oregano plants, this woody shrub grows as an evergreen perennial in USDA zones 9b through 11 and will grow back in the spring after winter die-back in zones 9a to 8b Its flowers provide an ornamental addition to warm climate herb gardens.
True oregano, as used for medicinal purposes, is confined to several species of wild oregano plants. The oregano spice which most people use is more correctly called marjoram (Origanum majorana) . It is also called sweet marjoram as it has a sweeter and more mild taste and is somewhat more piquant than oregano. But to botanists, the word oregano can be a real headache. More than 40 plants in four botanical families go by the name oregano. Many have similar taste but have different medicinal qualities and different potencies. Thus oregano more properly refers to a flavor rather than one particular plant.
Ornamental Varieties. Gardeners use some oregano varieties as ornamental plants. Hopflower oregano (Origanum libanoticum) is a primarily ornamental variety that is hardy to USDA zone 4b. Its lavender bracts resemble hop flowers, and its trailing growth habit makes it an attractive landscape plant. Less hardy than true oregano plants, this woody shrub grows as an evergreen perennial in USDA zones 9b through 11 and will grow back in the spring after winter die-back in zones 9a to 8b Its flowers provide an ornamental addition to warm climate herb gardens.
It is a hardy perennial in zone 5. Marjoram on the other hand, is a more tender plant, grown as an annual in zone 5. It has smaller leaves and a milder taste. It is often used in rice dishes, butter sauces, and poultry recipes. Marjoram grows wild in the Mediterranean where is has been adored for centuries. Check out our recipe section for ideas for using Oregano and Marjoram in the kitchen. Find great Oregano recipes here! Compare the different Oregano and Marjoram varieties we offer by clicking here. Find out more about each variety we carry by clicking on one of the blue links below, or simply type the plant name in our search box above
This cold and flu season, there’s an old natural remedy that’s getting some new attention: oil of oregano. With more than 40 different types of oregano plants, oil of oregano is not to be confused with the cooking spice (Origanum Marjoram). Oil of oregano is steam distilled from the leaves of the Origanum Vulgare oregano plant, which has the reputation of being one of nature’s most powerful antibiotics.
Although common oregano leaves have little flavor, other less aggressive varieties produce aromatic, pungent leaves that are edible dried or fresh. If you cook spaghetti sauce or other Mediterranean dishes, Greek oregano (Origanum vulgare hirtum) is probably already in your kitchen. Less hardy than true oregano plants, this woody shrub grows as an evergreen perennial in USDA zones 9b through 11 and will grow back in the spring after winter die-back in zones 9a to 8b Its flowers provide an ornamental addition to warm climate herb gardens.