Amarula has captured the heart of the marulas uniquely exotic aromas and flavours by first fermenting the hand-harvested fruit to create a wine that is double-distilled into a clear spirit, aged in oak for 24 months. Wood spice characters of vanilla and toast are naturally imparted.
This liqueur is made from fresh cream and the fruit from the marula tree. The marula tree grows in Africa. Amarula has hints of chocolate, caramel and vanilla. Served on ice or mixed in cocktail drinks and flavored coffees.
Amarula is a cream liqueur from South Africa. It is made with sugar, cream and the fruit of the African marula tree (Sclerocarya birrea) which is also locally called the Elephant tree or the Marriage Tree. It has an alcohol content of 17% by volume.
Amarula Cream is a cream Liqueur from South Africa and has an alcohol percentage of 16% The palate of this liqueur is characterized by Chocolate, Cream, and Vanilla notes. This bottle will cost you approximately $20 which is $5 more expensive than the average liqueur.
Since Amarula Cream’s inception as a cream liqueur in 1989, this exotic, creamy spirit has become South Africa’s most widely distributed alcoholic beverage. Sold in over 100 countries, Amarula can be enjoyed on its own, poured over ice, shaken into myriad cocktails, or be the secret ingredient in desserts and cuisine.
Amarula Cream is a pure blend of nature's fresh cream and the mysterious taste of the wild marula fruit. Africa's majestic elephants walk for miles to feast on the sun-ripened marula fruit which is indigenous to the region's vast subequatorial plains.
Amarula Cream is a South African success story. Sweet, creamy, and vibrantly fruity on the palate, with notes of caramel, peppery spice, and a hint of citrus, it has an irresistible taste all its own. The fruit that provides Amarula liqueur with its unique flavour comes from the marula tree (Scelerocarya birrea).
Amarula Cream is a South African product, made from the fruit of the Marula, or Elephant tree. The fruits are gathered by local harvesters, separated from the hard inner core, and transported to the Distell cellar in Stellenbosch.