1. Pasta must always be cooked in abundantly salted water. The proportion should be 1 1/2 quart (approximately 1 1/2 liters) of water for 3 – 4 oz (100 g) of dry pasta. Use a large, tall stockpot. Bring enough water to a boil as necessary to cook the desired amount of pasta. 
2 tablespoons minced garlic. 1 or 2 small dried red chiles, or to taste, or hot red pepper flakes to taste (optional). 1 pound long, thin pasta, like linguine or spaghetti, or any other pasta. 1/2 cup chopped fresh parsley leaves (optional). 1. Bring a large pot of water to a boil and salt it. Put the oil, garlic, the chiles if you're using them, and a pinch of salt in a small skillet or saucepan over medium-low heat. 
Doing up Dried. Dried linguine cooks in about nine minutes for al dente pasta, and in about 10 for more tender linguine. Begin timing it after you've added the dried pasta to a large stockpot of boiling water, stirred it well to incorporate it into the water, and let the water come back to a boil. Finessing the Fresh. Fresh pasta cooks in as little as two minutes after the water comes back to a boil. When you're ready to cook fresh linguine, remove the package from the refrigerator and boil a large stockpot of water. After uncoiling the bundles, drop the linguine into the pot
Don't rely on the package to give you the correct cooking time (this is only a guideline). Start timing when the water returns to a boil. Most pastas cook in 8 to 12 minutes. Test dry pasta for doneness after about 4 minutes of cooking by tasting it. It is difficult to give exact cooking times since different shapes and thickness of pasta will take less or more time to cook. Use a Large Pot: To cook pasta properly, pasta needs a lot of water. A too-small pot and too little water encourages the pasta to clump and stick together, thus cooking unevenly. For a pound (16 ounces) of pasta, you will want a pot that holds at least 5 or 6 quarts of water.
For a closer look, check out:VIDEO: How to Cook Pasta with Giuliana. EIGHT STEPS TO PERFECT PASTA. 1  For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking. 4  Stir within the first 2 minutes of cooking pasta. 1 For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking.
Allow 4 to 6 quarts of water per pound. Fresh pasta cooks quickly. Bring water and 1 tablespoon salt to a boil. Shake pasta loose (do not cook more than 2 lbs. at a time). Add pasta to boiling water, stir, and begin timing. Once pasta is cooked, drain well and toss immediately with the sauce, coating evenly. 
The pasta of choice for tossing with seafood, linguine is a flat, thin noodle. How much time it takes to cook linguine depends greatly on whether it is fresh or dried, and to a lesser extent on the manufacturer. Finessing the Fresh. Fresh pasta cooks in as little as two minutes after the water comes back to a boil. When you're ready to cook fresh linguine, remove the package from the refrigerator and boil a large stockpot of water. After uncoiling the bundles, drop the linguine into the pot