This is another example of man's authority to forgive sins on earth. Then in verse 16, James says “Therefore, confess our sins to one another,” in reference to the men referred to in verse 15, the priests of the Church.
There is nothing here (or anywhere else in the New Testament) about apostolic succession that says priests have the authority to forgive sins and that it is passed down. The Bible does mention appointing elders (Acts 14:23, Titus 1:5) and that the disciples of Jesus had special authority (Matt.
All that being said, I think saying a priest has power to forgive sins is not the correct terminology. It is more accurate to say that a properly ordained Catholic priest has the authority to absolve sins in the name of Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ granted the Apostles His Authority to forgive sins: John 20:21 - Since Christ was sent to forgive sins, and he sent the Apostles out to forgive Sins. John 20:22 - When the Lord Breathes on someone, a significant transformation takes place. See the reference in Genesis.
John 20:23 - Jesus says, If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven. If you retain the sins of any, they are retained.. In order for the apostles to exercise this gift of forgiving sins, the penitents must orally confess their sins to them because the apostles are not mind readers.
The Roman Catholic Church is notorious for its claim that its priests can forgive sins as if they were God. Catholics have to confess their sins to the priest. We read in The Faith of Our Fathers page 398 that this is a power. Priests have the power to forgive sins.
No, it does not. If you forgive the sins of any, their sins have been forgiven them; if you retain the sins of any, they have been retained, (John 20:23). Context is king when interpreting Scripture, and this is no exception. Let's take a look.
So, John 20:23 is not saying that Catholic priests have the authority to forgive sins. It is saying that Christian disciples have the authority to pronounce what sins have been forgiven..