Conjunctivitis is often called pink eye or red eye because it can cause the white of the eye to take on a pink or red color. The most common causes of conjunctivitis are viruses, bacteria, and allergens. But there are other causes, including chemicals, fungi, certain diseases, and contact lens wear (especially wearing lenses overnight). Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat.
Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye. Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat.
Bacterial conjunctivitis is a common type of pink eye, caused by bacteria that infect the eye through various sources of contamination. The bacteria can be spread through contact with an infected individual, exposure to contaminated surfaces or through other means such as sinus or ear infections. Non-infectious causes include allergies, foreign bodies and chemicals. The phrase pink eye is commonly used to refer to conjunctivitis, because pinkness or redness of the conjunctiva is one of the most noticeable symptoms.
Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye, is an inflammation of the conjunctiva of the eye. The conjunctiva is the membrane that lines the inside of the eye and also a thin membrane that covers the actual eye. There are many different causes of conjunctivitis. The following are the most common causes: 
The treatment for pinkeye depends on the cause. 1  Bacteria. 2  Pinkeye caused by bacteria, including those related to STDs, is treated with antibiotics, in the form of eye drops, ointments, or pills. 3  Eye drops or ointments may need to be applied to the inside of the eyelid three to four times a day for five to seven days. The symptoms of pinkeye differ based on the cause of the inflammation, but may include: 1  Redness in the white of the eye or inner eyelid. 2  Increased amount of tears. 3  Thick yellow discharge that crusts over the eyelashes, especially after sleep. 4  Green or white discharge from the eye. 5  Itchy eyes. 6  Burning eyes. 7  Blurred vision.
240,015 Helpful Votes. 190 Followers. A. Staphylococci and Streptococci, among others, are types of bacteria that commonly cause pink eye. Symptoms of bacterial pink eye include: Viral pink eye. The leading cause of a red, inflamed eye is virus infection. Adenoviruses are the type of virus that are most commonly responsible for the infection
Bacterial Conjunctivitis. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye. 2  Is a leading cause of children being absent from day care or school (Patel, 2007). Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat.
The most common types of bacteria that cause bacterial conjunctivitis include Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus influenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacterial conjunctivitis usually produces a thick eye discharge or pus and can affect one or both eyes. Non-infectious causes include allergies, foreign bodies and chemicals. The phrase pink eye is commonly used to refer to conjunctivitis, because pinkness or redness of the conjunctiva is one of the most noticeable symptoms.
All forms of conjunctivitis  including bacterial, viral, allergic and other types  involve inflammation of the transparent, mucous membrane (conjunctiva) covering the white part of the eye or sclera. Infectious causes of an inflamed eye and conjunctivitis include bacteria, viruses and fungi. Non-infectious causes include allergies, foreign bodies and chemicals. The phrase pink eye is commonly used to refer to conjunctivitis, because pinkness or redness of the conjunctiva is one of the most noticeable symptoms.