Examples of Chemical Erosion: 1. Carbonation-When carbon dioxide is present and carried by water, carbonation weathering can occur. The carbon dioxide reacts with the water, which forms a weak acid and eats away at the affected rock. 2. Chemical erosion, also called chemical weathering, causes the breakdown and decay or rocks or other geological features through a chemical process. This process can be the result of manmade activity, or the chemical composition of soil or water as it moves across the rock's surface.
Hydration-This type of weathering occurs when rocks absorb water, and the resulting hydrogen and hydrate ions form new bonds with minerals present within the rock. This type of chemical erosion can actually result in a change to a new form of rock, such as the process by which gypsum is formed. Chemical erosion, also called chemical weathering, causes the breakdown and decay or rocks or other geological features through a chemical process. This process can be the result of manmade activity, or the chemical composition of soil or water as it moves across the rock's surface.
Chemical weathering involves the alteration of the chemical and mineralogical composition of the weathered material. A number of different processes can result in chemical weathering. The most common chemical weathering processes are hydrolysis, oxidation, reduction, hydration, carbonation, and solution. Hydrolysis is the weathering reaction that occurs when the two surfaces of water and compound meet. 
Weathering Process The weathering process occurs when rocks are exposed to the hydrosphere (water) and atmosphere (air). These weathering agents can change the physical and chemical characteristics of rocks. Weathering is the chemical and physical processes that change the characteristics of rocks on the Earth s surface. It is also known as the preparation for erosion. In order for weathering to occur, the environment of a rock sample must change and the rock needs to be exposed to some form of water and the air.
Chemical Weathering. Chemical weathering is caused by rain water reacting with the mineral grains in rocks to form new minerals (clays) and soluble salts. These reactions occur particularly when the water is slightly acidic. These chemical processes need water, and occur more rapidly at higher temperature, so warm, damp climates are best. Chemical weathering (especially hydrolysis and oxidation) is the first stage in the production of soils. There are different types of chemical weathering, the most important are: Solution-removal of rock in solution by acidic rainwater. In particular, limestone is weathered by rainwater containing dissolved CO2, (this process is sometimes called carbonation).
Chemical weathering is the weakening and subsequent disintegration of rock by chemical reactions. These reactions include oxidation, hydrolysis, and carbonation. These processes either form or destroy minerals, thus altering the nature of the rock’s mineral composition. Hydrolysis is a chemical reaction caused by water. Water changes the chemical composition and size of minerals in rock, making them less resistant to weathering. Click on the video clip below to see hydrolysis of a relatively weathering resistant mineral, feldspar.
This process can be further subdivided into two categories: physical/mechanical weathering and chemical weathering. Chemical weathering refers to the processes by which rocks react with the atmosphere to form new substances. These reactions can alter a rock and transform the rock into sand, clays, and other minerals. CHEMICAL WEATHERING. Like mechanical weathering, there are several different types of
Carbonation is another type of chemical weathering. Carbonation is the mixing of water with carbon dioxide to make carbonic acid. This type of weathering is important in the formation of caves. Dissolved carbon dioxide in rainwater or in moist air forms carbonic acid, and this acid reacts with minerals in rocks. Let's review. Chemical weathering is the process by which rocks are broken down by chemical reactions. There are different types of chemical weathering. Hydrolysis is the chemical breakdown of a substance when combined with water.
Chemical weathering can also result from exposure to water. Hydrolysis occurs when silicate minerals react with water so that the mineral recombines with the water molecule to form a new mineral. For example, consider the mineral potassium feldspar. Chemical weathering refers to the processes by which rocks react with the atmosphere to form new substances. These reactions can alter a rock and transform the rock into sand, clays, and other minerals.