But high end, rare or exotic granite can run upward of $150 per square foot, though it should be noted that the average cost of installed granite is around $60 per square foot, making it slightly less expensive than quartz. Granite: Granite comes in a much wider variety of pricing. Your cheapest, lowest quality granite can be installed for $30 per square foot (although these low-end quotes have a tendency of incurring unseen costs).
Granite countertops are priced similarly to quartz counters. They usually cost about $50 to $100 per square foot, including installation. Standard granite is often slightly less expensive than quartz while premium granite tends to be a bit more expensive. If you have 30 square feet of counter space-which is fairly standard-the total cost would be $1,500 to $3,000. 1  Uniform look-As with all engineered products, quartz countertops have a clean, uniform look. 2  There are no variations or irregularities in the pattern.
Quartz has historically been more expensive than granite, but times have changed, technology has improved and now the discussion is not so cut-and-dry. Quartz generally runs from about $65-$100 per square foot installed. So your average quartz countertop of, say, 40 square feet will run from $2,600-$4,000. Granite: Granite comes in a much wider variety of pricing. Your cheapest, lowest quality granite can be installed for $30 per square foot (although these low-end quotes have a tendency of incurring unseen costs).
Installed granite countertops can range from $40 to $150 per square foot. This wide price range is because the final cost of granite countertops will depend on several factors including the variation, quality and availability of the granite as well as the individual costs of the fabricator and installer. 
The cost of quartz ranges from $80-$140 per square foot installed and granite starts at about $80 and can go to $175 or slightly higher for high-end material. 
On average, expect to pay $89/square foot of installed quartz counters. Prices will vary from $59 to $139 depending on the brand, pattern, and installer. If you decided to choose quartz for your kitchen countertop, you are probably worried about quartz countertops cost, but also about the installation and maintenance they require. 
20 years ago, I was installing granite for about $100 per square foot (PSF)…and today the average price is less than $75! Trends have an impact on many things, and the more stone is used, the more changes in shipping, mining and fabrication lower the cost. 
1 Cost of a typical quartz counter installation, comprised of 28 square feet of Zodiaq Abyss Black with 5 square feet of similar-material bevel edged backsplash, and a cut-out made for a double-bowl sink, will be about $2,219 to $3,081. 
Granite countertops are expensive. They usually cost about $50 to $100 per square foot, including installation. If you have 30 square feet of counter space-which is fairly standard-the total cost would be $1,500 to $3,000. Optional features like fancy edges or backsplashes cost extra.
Quartz countertops usually cost $50 to $100 per square foot, including installation. If you have 30 square feet of counter space-which is fairly standard-the total cost would be $1,500 to $3,000. 1  Uniform look-As with all engineered products, quartz countertops have a clean, uniform look. 2  There are no variations or irregularities in the pattern.