A compact kitchen can include a surprising amount of cabinet and counter space. The cost of a basement in-law apartment or in-law suite depends on many factors. If the basement has moisture issues, these will need to be addressed using proven waterproofing and dehumidification procedures. In a walkout basement, egress can be provided by a door. Otherwise, a standard basement window opening can be enlarged to install a larger egress-compliant window. An accessible bathroom can be a good idea for an in-law apartment. Photo courtesy of Kohler.
On average, fully converting a basement into a rental unit cost between $20,000 and $50,000 on the low end for only the basic necessities in 2011, according to BasementRefinshCost.com. A fireplace will naturally cost extra to install in the basement. Using engineered hardwood will be more expensive than simply using carpet. Dividing the basement into multiple rooms will add significantly to the cost. Even the grade and materials for the fixtures play a vital role in final expenses.
Basement in-law apartment ideas. Transforming an unfinished basement into an apartment or suite definitely qualifies as a major home makeover. If you’re working with a Total Basement Finishing contractor, you can be confident that all code and safety requirements will be met in this new space. In a walkout basement, egress can be provided by a door. Otherwise, a standard basement window opening can be enlarged to install a larger egress-compliant window. An accessible bathroom can be a good idea for an in-law apartment. Photo courtesy of Kohler.
1 A lot depends on how much is included and the quality of the final project. 2  Finishing a basement in a relatively new home can start around $20 -$35 a square foot, or $30,000 -$70,000 for 1,500-2,000 square feet -- but it can cost $100,000 or more to create a fully-finished space. 1 For $500-$5,000, Do-It-Yourselfers can waterproof the walls with a brush-on compound, then add carpeting, paneling, a dropped ceiling or other touches to make a basement into a more usable living area.
A more average remodel project of a basement area with 1,500 to 2,000 square feet with trim, an entertainment area, a full bath and other amenities is more likely to cost between $50,000 and $75,000 to complete. A fireplace will naturally cost extra to install in the basement. Using engineered hardwood will be more expensive than simply using carpet. Dividing the basement into multiple rooms will add significantly to the cost. Even the grade and materials for the fixtures play a vital role in final expenses.
The price will, of course, also be affected by how much renovating is being done. If your renovation is extensive, requiring plumbing or electrical work (such as building a bathroom or installing HVAC), we recommend hiring a contractor. Expect this type of basement to cost more at least $65,000. A basement finishing system is another option, running $45,000 to $55,000. These out-of-the-box systems include everything from moisture-proof, insulated wall panels to ceilings to lighting. There are some options when it comes to finishing a basement, and they all come with a cost. If you choose a basic do-it-yourself makeover, including adding moisture control, framing in walls and adding decor and furnishings, your cost will run between $10,000 and $27,000.
Plan a bathroom and kitchen for the basement apartment. If your basement does not already have a bathroom and kitchen, you'll want to plan on adding them. A bathroom is a necessary requirement, and building codes should be kept in mind regarding aspects like head space over the toilet and GFCI electrical outlets. Chances are you'll find that your basement is being used primarily for storage. Consider instead putting your basement to work by converting it into an apartment; basement apartments allow you to supplement your income or host a family member that can't afford to live on their own.
Converting your basement into an apartment can increase your home value, since it will probably involve adding a bathroom and enhancing the living space. Additionally, a basement apartment can be a good source of additional income if you decide to rent it out to tenants. 1. Evaluate your budget thoroughly to determine how much you can afford to pay for your basement conversion. Meet with a remodeling consultant to discuss your projected budget and determine any additional costs you might need to consider.
The cost to remodel your garage will be based on how you will use your new space. Transforming a garage into a new master suite with a bathroom, an office workspace, or a small apartment–all are common garage remodeling projects that involve a lot of cost variables. So if you want to turn your garage into a living space with a bathroom or intend to use it as an office space, you will need to have plumbing installed and likely add more wiring and outlets to the room for additional electrical devices.
Rates Per Square Foot. To finish a basement in a basic method, equipping it with electricity, plumbing, walls and insulation, costs tended to run between $25 and $35 per square foot in 2011. A fireplace will naturally cost extra to install in the basement. Using engineered hardwood will be more expensive than simply using carpet. Dividing the basement into multiple rooms will add significantly to the cost. Even the grade and materials for the fixtures play a vital role in final expenses.