1 On average, a Bath Fitter product, along with professional installation, is going to cost about $2,000 to $7,000+ for typical bathroom jobs. 2  It will depend on the features you want and what type of setup you have. 1 It will depend on the features you want and what type of setup you have. 2  According to some members on MommySavers.com, they paid anywhere from $2,000 to more than $7,000 to have a Bath Fitter installed.
Sample Pricing. While you may be able to get a tub liner for $1,000 or so, keep in mind that this covers the tub only. If you want matching wall panels, a shower surround or special features like shelves, grab bars or built-in soap dishes, your price will typically increase. Always contact a company directly to determine how much your particular project will cost. Many companies, including Bath Fitter, offer free in-home consultation s to help you understand cost and scope.
Answers. Best Answer: I work For Bath Fitter in TN. and seeing the product from the production line going to your home, you can't find a better deal. Depending on your wishes and what style of tub your looking for....about $2,000 to $3,000 but worth it
Report Abuse. Average Cost To do basic Remodel Of Bathroom Is About $8000.00 To $10,000.00 Bath Fitter Or Re bath Cost About $3500.00 For Tub Liner And Walls With all Accessories & Faucet. bob r · 9 years ago. Report Abuse. The cost varies greatly pending on the grade and accessories you want. Overall, it is a tad cheaper than tiling, but in the long term is just a cheap cosmetic fix. Costs run between $1400 - $5,000 for plastic.
A wide variety of local and national companies provide bath and shower remodel services similar to Bath Fitter, including lower cost alternatives. Products offered include liners placed over the existing tub and walls or special sprayed-on coatings to create attractive bath surfaces. Bath Fitter is a company that provides bath tub and shower remodelling by installing new acrylic liners and hardware. Bath Fitters has become a common name used by consumers referring to liners for showers and tub surrounds.
1 The cost of a Bath Fitter will depend on the materials one wants used as well as the size of your shower or tub. 2  For higher end materials and large spaces, you can expect to pay more. 1 It will depend on the features you want and what type of setup you have. 2  According to some members on MommySavers.com, they paid anywhere from $2,000 to more than $7,000 to have a Bath Fitter installed.
My parents needed to replace their tub in the 2nd bathroom of their manufactured home. They got a quote from Bath Fitter for $4800.00 less a senior citizen's discount of $500.00. So the bid was for $4300.00. My parents are retired and don't have a whole lot of money so they couldn't use Bath Fitter.
Bath liners, including those sold under the Bath Fitter brand name, consist of sheets of acrylic molded to fit over the tub, giving it a fresh new look. These liners cost much less than a new bathtub, generally ringing in between $800 and $1,000, though wall panels and other extras can increase the price. Always contact a company directly to determine how much your particular project will cost. Many companies, including Bath Fitter, offer free in-home consultation s to help you understand cost and scope.