Following the tax code, benefits received are excluded from the computation of gross income as long as it remains below P82,000. “Gross benefits” include: the 13th month pay, Christmas bonuses, productivity and incentive bonuses, and other benefits of the same nature in cash or in kind. In addition to that, compensations of small value, called De Minimis Benefits, are also excluded from the computation of gross income. – On a regular holiday which is also an employee’s rest day, an employee is entitled to an additional 30% of the regular holiday rate of 200%, or a total of 260%. Note that it is only applicable to employees covered by the holiday-pay rule.
When filing your tax return, you must report to the IRS the amount of your total wages and not your net wages for a given year. Your eligibility for tax rebates and benefits is calculated on your gross income. The gross income for tax purposes refers to all of your income during a given year, including any other income you earned from a part-time job or personal business, and even interest you have accumulated on your savings.
Gross salary includes both taxable and nontaxable income. One source throws more light on the Gross pay as follows: “Your gross salary is the TOTAL amount of compensation that you receive from your employer. Depending on the type of job that you have, this can include any bonuses, commissions, profit sharing plans, retirement plans and overtime pay. It is not uncommon for employees to make the majority of their compensation from non-base pay” (http://www.ehow.com/info_8165672_base-gross-salary-same.html). 
The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not. Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00
For a monthly compensation of PHP 1,500 and less the employee contributes 1% and above PHP 1500 monthly compensation it is 2%. The employer’s contribution always remains at 2%. Contributions are deducted from gross income before computation of the income tax. – On a regular holiday which is also an employee’s rest day, an employee is entitled to an additional 30% of the regular holiday rate of 200%, or a total of 260%. Note that it is only applicable to employees covered by the holiday-pay rule.
If the employer has a sick pay policy, but the employee is not eligible for benefits under the policy for the first 90 days of employment, the employer may deduct for full days of absence due to illness during that first 90-day period. Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00
Monthly and daily salary: definitions and calculation. You may receive a monthly or daily salary. Daily wages are calculated using either the gross rate (for paid public holidays, paid leave, salary in lieu and salary deductions) or the basic rate (for work on rest days or public holidays). For calculating salary, a ‘month' or ‘complete month' refers to any one of the months in the calendar year.
The dependent must not have had gross income in excess of the exemption amount for the year involved (does not apply if person is taxpayer’s child who is under 19 or is a student under 24) [IRC §152(c)(1)(A)]. All income in the form of money, property, and services that is not exempt from tax is gross income. 1  Total net sales minus the cost of goods sold, plus any miscellaneous income from the business. 2  Gross receipts from rental property. 3  A partner’s share of the gross, not a share of the net, partnership income.
Salary is a regularly paid amount of money, constituting all or part of an employee's wages, paid on a weekly or less frequent basis, that is not subject to reduction due to the quality or quantity of work performed. This is the general definition in federal law (29 CFR 541.118). Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00