Serge is a type of twill fabric which has been classically used in uniforms and suiting for centuries. Wool serge is excellent for uniforms and suits, and it is possible to produce it in both light and heavy weights, for a variety of climates. Because it is a very flexible, resilient fabric, it tends to cope very well with crumpling and pressing, making it convenient for extended wear.
1. serge-a twilled woolen fabric. cloth, fabric, textile, material-artifact made by weaving or felting or knitting or crocheting natural or synthetic fibers; the fabric in the curtains was light and semitransparent; woven cloth originated in Mesopotamia around 5000 BC; she measured off enough material for a dress. serge 1. n. A twilled cloth of worsted or worsted and wool, often used for suits. [Middle English. , from Old French, from Vulgar Latin. , from Latin
10 most extreme places on Earth. Serge is a type of twill fabric which has been classically used in uniforms and suiting for centuries. Like other twills, this material has a distinctive weave which creates a pattern of diagonal ridges in the fabric, and it is known for being extremely sturdy and resilient. Wool serge is excellent for uniforms and suits, and it is possible to produce it in both light and heavy weights, for a variety of climates. Because it is a very flexible, resilient fabric, it tends to cope very well with crumpling and pressing, making it convenient for extended wear.
Full Definition of SERGE. : a durable twilled fabric having a smooth clear face and a pronounced diagonal rib on the front and the back. See serge defined for English-language learners. See serge defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Serge /ser-ge/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Serge's name origin is Latin, and the meaning of the name Serge is servant, attendant. Serge is a variant transcription of Sergio (Latin). Sorge is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Seage, Serjay, Serne. Serge is a rare given name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#43629 out of 150436, Top 29%). (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent related form of Serge (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 is Sergio (#307 a year ago) . Variants like Serguei are seldom used.
Serge /ˈsɜrdʒ/ is a male given name, particularly common in French; alternatively Sergio sérgio In, Portuguese sergiu In, Romanian sergio In italian And, Spanish / Sergey sergei In. Russian the less common female version Is. sergine Serge /ˈsɜrdʒ/ is a male given name, particularly common in French; alternatively Sergio sérgio In, Portuguese sergiu In, Romanian sergio In italian And, Spanish / Sergey sergei In. russian
Serge Jonas Ibaka Ngobila (born September 18, 1989) is a Congolese-Spanish professional basketball player who currently plays for the Oklahoma City Thunder of the National Basketball Association (NBA). 