To create an event: 1  Click Events in the left menu of your News Feed. 2  Click Create in the top right. 3  Click Create Private Event in the top-left to choose a privacy setting. 4  Fill in the event name, details, location and time. 5  Click Create. If your event is happening at a place, like a restaurant or a park, you can add it to your event along with a map, directions and weather info. To add a place to an event you're creating: 1  Start creating an event and then enter the place where the event is happening next to Where. 2  Choose your place from the suggestions in the dropdown. 3  Keep in mind that a place won't appear if you just type in a physical address (ex: 123 Main Street)
Take action on comments. When someone comments on your video, you'll get a notification. Click the arrow in the upper right of the comment to manage comments: 1  Remove: Take down the comment and replies from YouTube. 2  If the comment was also shared on Google+, it will still be visible there. 3  Report spam or abuse: Report comments that you believe are spam or abuse to the YouTube team
To add a main photo for an event as the host: 1  Click Add Event Photo at the top right of the event page. 2  Once you choose a photo, you can reposition it by clicking on the image and dragging it up or down. 3  Click Save Changes. If your event is happening at a place, like a restaurant or a park, you can add it to your event along with a map, directions and weather info. To add a place to an event you're creating: 1  Start creating an event and then enter the place where the event is happening next to Where. 2  Choose your place from the suggestions in the dropdown. 3  Keep in mind that a place won't appear if you just type in a physical address (ex: 123 Main Street)
Follow these simple steps to ensure that you review tags/posts before they are published on your Timeline: 1. Login to Facebook and click on the “down arrow” button located at the top right of the page. 2. Select “Privacy Settings”. 3. Click on “Edit Settings” next to Timeine and Tagging. 4. A pop-up window will appear. Make sure “Review posts friends tag you in before they appear in your timeline” AND “Review tags friends add to your own posts on Facebook” are both turned ON. If it’s OFF, simply click on it and select “Enable.”. 5. 
How to Make a Facebook Account: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-make-a-f... How to customize your profile on Facebook: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-upload-a... How to Edit Your Facebook Profile: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-edit-you... How to create a photo album on Facebook: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-create-a... How to create a Facebook event page: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-create-a... How to make a Facebook fan page: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-make-a-f... How to use Facebook Chat: http://www.mahalo.com/how-to-use-face... Check out these Mahalo How-To Playlists: How To Start a Blog: http://www.youtube.com/view_play_list... 
2. Paste the URL to the Code Configurator and adjust settings like the width of your comments plugin or how many posts you want to show by default (num_posts). Click the Get Code button to generate your comments plugin code. 1 App-based Moderation View: Visit the URL developers.facebook.com/tools/comments. 2  You will get a list of all your Facebook apps, which enables you to moderate all comments tied to the corresponding app. 3  If you do not use a Facebook app for your Comments plugin, you will not be able to use this view.
you have the option to approve messages before they are on your page... I can't find this setting on facebook..... I hate it when people tag me in photo's,notes and comments..... I am scared of what my family and friends might say..... Add your answer. Source. I like on myspace... you have the option to approve messages before they are on your page... I can't find this setting on facebook..... I hate it when people tag me in photo's,notes and comments..... I am scared of what my family and friends might say..... Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
Click the arrow in the upper right of the comment to manage comments: 1  Remove: Take down the comment and replies from YouTube. 2  Report spam or abuse: Report comments that you believe are spam or abuse to the YouTube team. 3  Hide from channel: Block the user from posting comments on videos on your channel. When someone comments on your video, you'll get a notification. Click the arrow in the upper right of the comment to manage comments: 1  Remove: Take down the comment and replies from YouTube. 2  If the comment was also shared on Google+, it will still be visible there.