The references used may be made clearer with a different or consistent style of citation, footnoting, or external linking. (May 2015). A sneeze, or sternutation, is a semi-autonomous, convulsive expulsion of air from the lungs through the nose and mouth, usually caused by foreign particles irritating the nasal mucosa. During a sneeze, the soft palate and palatine uvula depress while the back of the tongue elevates to partially close the passage to the mouth so that air ejected from the lungs may be expelled through the nose.
I think two for a kiss is a line in it. What is that rhyme or proverb for sneezing? I think two for a kiss is a line in it. 
NurseryRhymes.com is a free site offering lyrics and music to hundreds of popular nursery rhymes that have been passed down through the ages. Use our site to keep kids entertained, find lyrics to a nursery rhyme that you can't remember, or bring you back to a happy time when you were child. 
Sneezing If you sneeze on Monday, you sneeze for danger; Sneeze on a Tuesday, kiss a stranger; Sneeze on a Wednesday, sneeze for a letter; Sneeze on a Thursday, something better. Sneeze on a Friday, sneeze for sorrow; Sneeze on a Saturday, joy to-morrow. Report Abuse. The below rhyme is the only one I know of. Hope it helps. One for a wish Two for a kiss Three for a poem Four for a letter Five for gold Six for lumber Seven for an illness Eight for a dance Nine for a cold Ten for a grave. JillPinky · 8 years ago
Heres one for days - If you sneeze on Monday you sneeze for danger, Sneeze on Tuesday, kiss a stranger, Sneeze on Wednesday, sneeze for a letter, Sneeze on Thursday, something better, Sneeze on Friday, sneeze for sorrow, Sneeze on Saturday, see your sweetheart tomorrow. Report Abuse. The below rhyme is the only one I know of. Hope it helps. One for a wish Two for a kiss Three for a poem Four for a letter Five for gold Six for lumber Seven for an illness Eight for a dance Nine for a cold Ten for a grave. JillPinky · 8 years ago
Here's a large list of voted rhymes for sneeze. Sneeze starts with s and sn, ends in e and ze. Rhymes with and sounds like 52 words. It's English, is 6 letters long with the letters eeensz, 3 consonants, 3 vowels and 1 syllables. I've filtered all results to show only verified rhymes by votes and evaluation. ~ You Go Rhymes! ~. Rhyming isn't always perfect or end rhyming. It's finding words, their meanings, and portraying an intended message. There are many rhyme types and schemes found throughout You Go Rhymes with example rhymes and poems. Use syllable, consonant and vowel filters to help find the perfect word.
Sneezing (sternutation) is a part of every day life and sometime in your life you may want to know how exactly you do it. Simply, sneezing is triggered by particles that enter … the nasal passage and irritate it. We also can sneeze due … to irritation and drainage from the mucous membranes, like happens with a cold or the flu. It is an important reflex action to remove an irritant and to keep our air passages open and free of obstructions.    We sneeze as a response to the irritation of the lining of the nose.
Words that rhyme with sneer. Words that rhyme with sneer at. Words that rhyme with sneerer. Words that rhyme with sneering. Words that rhyme with sneeringly. Words that rhyme with sneeze at. Words that rhyme with sneezer. Words that rhyme with sneezeweed. Words that rhyme with sneezewort. Words that rhyme with snell. Words that rhyme with snick. Names. List of names starting with S. 
A sneeze is a semi-autonomous, convulsive expulsion of air from the lungs through the nose and mouth due to irritation of the upper respiratory system and tissues. It is most … commonly caused by foreign particles (dust, pepper, pollen) irritating the nasal mucosa. We also can sneeze due … to irritation and drainage from the mucous membranes, like happens with a cold or the flu. It is an important reflex action to remove an irritant and to keep our air passages open and free of obstructions.    We sneeze as a response to the irritation of the lining of the nose.