Both the fascia and soffit are part of the exterior of the home and should be painted every 5-7 years, just like the exterior of a home. It is very common for the fascia to rot in older homes if it isn’t painted often enough. The paint protects the fascia and soffit from the natural elements of weather. Rain gutters are attached to the fascia, but an easier way to describe where the fascia is located is to say that it is what the Christmas lights are attached to. The fascia can be made up of any type of wood and size (2×4, 2×6 or 2×8).
Soffit is designed to be installed from the exterior wall to the fascia board. It is hidden under the eave and behind the fascia. Sometimes the roof is flush with the edge of the exterior walls. In these cases, the fascia itself might include soffits for venting. Fascia is important to a properly constructed roof and is typically installed beneath the roof line and behind the gutters. Fascia is installed around the entire structure and is attached to the uncovered ends of rafters or to the top of exterior walls.
SOFFIT & FASCIA. The most difficult part of maintaining your home is sanding, scraping & painting the eaves or, sometimes called, overhangs. What makes us different from most siding companies is that we “specialize” in custom covering all your wood trim soffits, fascia and porch ceilings. SOFFIT, PORCH & PATIO CEILING. 
An exterior soffit is located on the span beneath the rafter tails, while the fascia is the exposed horizontal band you see at the end of the rafters. These architectural elements found along the eave area do more than just add visual interest and give a finished look to your home. 
The soffit board is tucked away under the fascia board. It is usually the board that you see most of from street level. The soffit can be ventilated to allow the flow of air into the roof area. Alternatively, ventilation can be provided over the top of the fascia board. Many people prefer the latter solution these days. The fascia board is the long, straight board that runs along the lower edge of the roof. The fascia is fixed directly to the roof trusses and usually does all the work of supporting the bottom row of tiles and carrying all the guttering. This is no mean feat, especially when it is raining hard.
Soffit is typically made of vinyl or aluminum, but wood is also used in some construction. Vinyl and aluminum soffit is usually available in a variety of colors to match the home’s siding. Fascia boards are commonly made of wood but also might be purchased in plastic and aluminum. Fascia is important to a properly constructed roof and is typically installed beneath the roof line and behind the gutters. Fascia is installed around the entire structure and is attached to the uncovered ends of rafters or to the top of exterior walls.
Typically a soffit is used in the area beneath the eaves on the exterior of a house to close the space beneath the eave. The soffit extends from the side of the structure to the edge of the eave. Fascia is used to create a barrier between the edge of the roof and the outside. Fascia is important to a properly constructed roof and is typically installed beneath the roof line and behind the gutters. Fascia is installed around the entire structure and is attached to the uncovered ends of rafters or to the top of exterior walls.
Top 10 facts about the world. Technically, a soffit is the underside of any element of a building. The word originates with the Latin suffigere, meaning to fix underneath.. So there are soffits on ceilings, stairs, and even cornices. The most common type, however, is found in the area under the eaves on the exterior of the house. 
Steel Soffit and Fascia from ABC Seamless for the Perfect Finishing Touch. Steel soffit and fascia from ABC Seamless enhances the curb appeal of your home. Freshening up existing overhangs and roof edges can give your residence a sleek, finished look. Unlike ready-made vinyl or aluminum home exterior components, our steel fascia is tough and designed to withstand the most extreme weather. 