Source(s): terraforming tools spore: https://trimurl.im/j87/how-do-i-get-terr... 
Answers. Best Answer: 1. go to home planet and select the trade button when you're in the screen that allows you to ask about missions and repair/recharge your ship. 2. Depending on your planet's needs select either an atmosphere generator or atmosphere reducer (not sure if it's called that). Buy one of these tools (depending on your needs [check you're terraform panel in the lower left screen on the planet you wish to terraform]). 3. Also you may buy a colony incredi-pack or whatever they are called which instantly creates a colony when you use it on a planet. 4. Anyways head to the planet you wish to terraform and use you're generator/reducer. After that consult your foodweb (terraform panel as well) and see what you need to add. 5. Collect all the plant samples you need and introduce them to the planet. 
The terraforming of Venus is the theoretical process of engineering the global environment of the planet Venus in such a way as to make it suitable for human habitation. (Loss of hydrogen due to the solar wind is unlikely to be significant on the timescale of terraforming.) Due to the relatively flat surface, this water would cover about 80% of the surface, compared to 70% for Earth, even though it would amount to only roughly 10% of the water found on Earth.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Just a quick video on how to terraform a planet from T0 to T3 for those who are still a bit unsure. Its a bit choppy because the in game video capture decided not to work right and the one that worked (FRAPS didn't want to work with it) sucks. 
Single Use: 1  Atmosphere Generator: Place on a planet to raise its atmosphere level. 2  Ice Storm: Place on the planet to lower its temperature. 3  Meteor Shower: Use to hurl meteors at a planet to raise its temperature. 4  Drought Generator: Place on a planet to lower the atmosphere level. Most planets put out a certain color of spice. Place efficient cities to get the most spice from a world. Note that one can purchase single-use tools that can be placed on a planet to reduce the occurrence of biological disasters, as well as to protect abducted species.
It's possible to de-terraform a planet to T0 and then re-terraform it, but this takes significantly more money and/or energy than just destroying cities.If you de-terraform a planet with cities in civilization stage,the cities survive without a shield. Most planets put out a certain color of spice. Place efficient cities to get the most spice from a world. Note that one can purchase single-use tools that can be placed on a planet to reduce the occurrence of biological disasters, as well as to protect abducted species.
This is a walkthrough/guide on how to terraform planets WITHOUT using the Staff of Life. Gameplay by MCManimation. Disclaimer: The video has been made purely for entertainment and educational purposes only and any media in this video belongs to its respective owners and not to this channel. 1  Gaming. 
It is also important to introduce plants and animals stabilize the T-Score. To de-terraform a planet, use your tools to bring the red dot away from the center of the bullseye. Terraforming (Terra being the Latin word for Earth, therefore meaning Earth-forming) is a process in Spore, in the Space Stage. Most planets put out a certain color of spice. Place efficient cities to get the most spice from a world. Note that one can purchase single-use tools that can be placed on a planet to reduce the occurrence of biological disasters, as well as to protect abducted species.
1 Atmosphere Generator: Place on a planet to raise its atmosphere level. 2  Ice Storm: Place on the planet to lower its temperature. 3  Meteor Shower: Use to hurl meteors at a planet to raise its temperature. 4  Drought Generator: Place on a planet to lower the atmosphere level. Most planets put out a certain color of spice. Place efficient cities to get the most spice from a world. Note that one can purchase single-use tools that can be placed on a planet to reduce the occurrence of biological disasters, as well as to protect abducted species.