Display Options. Ruby in Fuchsite is a lovely combination of natural red Ruby crystals embedded in pale to medium green Fuchsite. Great for any collection, Ruby in Fuchsite merges the qualities of Ruby and Fuchsite for the perfect Heart Stone.
Ruby is a stone that is considered in crystal healing to be very protective of home, worldly possession, children, as well as psychic protection. It is also said to protect against unhappiness and lightning. Dream recall and dream work are psychic uses of Ruby. It is especially used to attain lucid dreams.
Ruby-zoisite is the natural combination of both ruby and zoisite crystals in a single specimen. It is also known as ' anyolite ', a name derived from the Masai word for 'green' (anyoli). Other name variations include ruby-in-zoisite and Tanganyika artstone.
Ruby is a type of corundum, and other members of the family are generally known as Sapphires, and the red stone is commonly found intergrown with a variety of different colors of Sapphire. The names of other colors of corundum, use the word Sapphire combined with the color of the stone, such as Blue Sapphire.
Ruby is a high energy stone which is a type of sapphire. It is used to amplify energy and increase chi or prana. In this way it is considered a boost to Earth healing. It is also a stone that may bring a sense of adventurer to the wearer. It is considered to be a leadership stone as well.
Ruby is a type of sapphire. All types of sapphire have the basic properties noted on the sapphire page. Ruby is a stone that is often created in the lab, possibly more often than it is found in nature. Opinions differ widely as to whether man-made rubies have the same metaphysical energies as natural rubies.
The Ruby stone is well known as a deep red gemstone and crystal. It is an excellent stone for recharging your energy levels, and it may stimulate your mind to be more positive and self-assured. Its striking color is analogous of its energy, which is very effective for encouraging vitality, sensuality and sexual energy.
Ruby is red Corundum, an aluminum oxide mineral with chromium responsible for its rich, red color. The name comes from the Latin word rubeus, meaning “red,” and until 1800 when Ruby was recognized as a variety of Corundum, red Spinels, Tourmalines, and Garnets were also believed to be Ruby.