Gender selection now rakes in revenues of at least $100 million every year. The average cost of a gender selection procedure at high-profile clinics is about $18,000, and an estimated 4,000 to 6,000 procedures are performed every year. 
Gender selection, or sex selection, is a fertility procedure used to choose the gender of a baby prior to conception. While the desire to choose a baby boy or a baby girl has probably been present throughout human history, it is only recently that the technology to do so has become clinically possible and available. With improvements in gender selection technology, demand for gender selection has also been growing steadily.
When gender selection is used to prevent a genetic disease, the process is called medical gender selection.. In the so-called sex-linked diseases, genetic diseases are inherited via the mother, and only male offspring are affected. While the desire to choose a baby boy or a baby girl has probably been present throughout human history, it is only recently that the technology to do so has become clinically possible and available. With improvements in gender selection technology, demand for gender selection has also been growing steadily.
If you want to be certain your next child will be the gender you are hoping for then no other method comes close to PGD (Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis). While traditional sperm-screening techniques have a success rates of 60-70%, only PGD offers virtually 100% accuracy. Courtesy ABC News | Full Article. 
The cost of gender selection is basically the cost of an assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedure, such as in vitro fertilization (IVF) or intrauterine insemination (IUI), plus the cost of the gender selection method — Ericsson Method or preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) . The least expensive high-tech method of gender selection, Ericsson Method plus IUI, can range in price from $600 to $1,200 per attempt.
We offer a laboratory procedure that can increase the odds of producing a male or female child at an affordable cost. Our website contains information on our process, other gender selection methods, costs, forms to get started, and contact information to submit any questions you may have about our services. Gender Selection services are effective, but not guaranteed to be 100%. This service should be viewed as an option to help you increase the odds of having a baby of a certain gender. While this can be achieved in many of cases, it cannot be achieved in every case.
The PGD procedure alone runs an average of $3,550. In addition, the cost of embryo cryopreservation averages between $700 and $900, while the storage of the embryos costs $600 to $1,000 annually. IVF with PGD for gender selection is not covered by insurance. But various financing options may be available. For instance, unsecured loans can cover the costs of fertility treatment and fertility drugs. Low-cost treatment plans and guaranteed refunds are available for some IVF cycles. While there are many types of methods that claim to allow for gender selection, Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) is considered the most effective. The following is a breakdown of average costs if you are considering gender selection through PGD.
Gender Selection Costs. Whether it’s the concern of passing on a genetic disorder or a case of family balancing, gender selection gives parents the freedom to choose the preferred sex of their child. While there are many types of methods that claim to allow for gender selection, Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis (PGD) is considered the most effective. The following is a breakdown of average costs if you are considering gender selection through PGD.
PGS for gender selection must be used in conjunction with IVF. According to the American Society of Reproductive Medicine (ASRM), the average price of an (IVF) cycle in the United States is $12,400, and this may or may not include the fertility drugs that accompany the cycle. The least expensive high-tech method of gender selection, Ericsson Method plus IUI, can range in price from $600 to $1,200 per attempt.
Gender Select. While there is an overwhelming amount of information on the Internet about gender selection options, please be careful as much of this information is filled with scams, old wives tales and unproven techniques. There are only 2 proven techniques that may affect the gender of your children. 