Other names for the tri-tip are bottom sirloin roast and triangle roast. If you don't see it in the meat case, you may need to request it from your butcher. A boneless tri-tip roast weighs around 1-1/2 to 2 pounds and is around 2 inches thick. Cooking Tri-Tip Steaks. You can ask the butcher to cut a tri-tip roast into 3/4- to 1-inch-thick steaks. These are best suited for broiling in the oven. 1. Seasoning Tri-Tip Steaks. 1  Marinating for 2 to 3 hours in your favorite marinade is not essential but will help keep the steaks tender and moist while cooking.
3) Light the grill and bring to medium heat (between 350 – 375 degrees). Preheat for 7-8 minutes. This is the ideal heat to cook the tri tip fully in 35-40 minutes, depending on the size of the roast. 4) Place the meat fat side up in between the burners. 
1 Brown the tri-tip at medium heat for about 10 minutes, turning once or twice. 2  Cover the grill if you can. 3  Lower the heat after 10 minutes or so, and continue cooking for an additional 10 to 30 minutes. 4  Cooking times will depend on the size and shape of the meat and your individual grill. 1 If while carving you discover that the inside of the tri-tip is raw or too rare for your taste, return it to the grill at low heat. 2  If you're not able to marinate the tri-tip, season it well with salt and pepper about 30 minutes before cooking. 3  You can use just about any marinade for this recipe
3. Oven-roasting the tri-tip roast Place roast in the oven and roast, uncovered, for 30 to 35 minutes or until the thermometer registers 135 degrees F. Remove from the oven and cover with foil. Let the meat stand for 15 minutes, which will bring the temperature up to 145 degrees F (medium rare) after standing. Cooking Tri-Tip Steaks. You can ask the butcher to cut a tri-tip roast into 3/4- to 1-inch-thick steaks. These are best suited for broiling in the oven. 1. Seasoning Tri-Tip Steaks. 1  Marinating for 2 to 3 hours in your favorite marinade is not essential but will help keep the steaks tender and moist while cooking.
Grill your tri-tip, turning it occasionally with grilling tongs, until it is medium-rare---about 35 to 40 minutes. The tri-tip's internal temperature should be 135 degrees F when you cook it, which is just below medium-rare. Remove the tri-tip from the grill onto a platter. Let it rest for 15 to 20 minutes. During this time, the tri-tip's internal temperature will continue to rise 5 to 10 degrees F, cooking it to medium-rare. Thinly slice the meat against the grain and serve it while it's still hot. 1 If you'd rather grill the tri-tip as steaks, cut the marinated tri-tip into steaks, 1-inch thick. 2  Grill the steaks over indirect heat until they are medium-rare, about 8 minutes. 3  Flip the steaks halfway through the cook time.
6. Test the meat after 30 minutes with a meat thermometer. Remove it from the grill when it is 135 degrees (medium rare) or 150 degrees Fahrenheit (medium). The tri-tip cut will start to get tough if you cook to a higher temperature than this. Choose a tri-tip roast. Aim for a roast that is approximately 2.5 to 3 lbs. (1.1 to 1.4 kg) to keep it moist in the center while it cooks in the dry oven. Pick 1 that is marbled throughout. 1  Tri-tip roast may be labeled as “sirloin roast,” “triangle roast” or even Santa Maria steak.”
4 Cover the grill and cook until the temperature of the interior of the tri-tip reaches 120°F for a rare roast, 130°F for medium-rare and 140°F for medium. At this point the meat will take anywhere from 20 to 40 minutes to cook, depending on how hot your grill is, how well done you want it, and the size of the cut. Tri-tip roasts range from 2 1/2 pounds to 4 pounds. Figure on 1/2 pound of meat (before cooking) per person. A Santa Maria rub has salt, pepper, and either garlic salt or garlic powder. That's the base of the rub, anything beyond that is optional.
3. Slow-grill the steak. Place the tri-tip on the cool side of the grill, with the thickest part of the steak facing the hot side of the grill, and cook with the lid closed. Turn the steak occasionally, about every 20 minutes, until it reaches 110° (43°C) in the center of the thickest part. 