For a very long time, the only cannabinoid that people talked about was THC. THC was first discovered in 1964 at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, by Dr. Raphael Mechoulam and his colleagues, Dr. Yehiel Gaoni and Dr. Haviv Edery. THC is the cannabinoid in marijuana that creates a euphoric effect. But there are many other cannabinoids that are found in marijuana. The most talked about cannabinoid right now is CBD. CBD has been proven to possess a lot of medical benefits, especially for those suffering from epilepsy. 
10. Cannabinoids are even found in the white blood cells (CB2 receptors). The CB2 receptors are found predominantly on immunological cells and regulate the shift in the immune system to the anti-inflammatory mode. Cannabinoids: The active compounds in marijuana. While the use of cannabis (marijuana) goes back many thousands of years, the brain chemistry that makes this herb so intriguing to humanity is just beginning to be understood. The special active compounds in cannabis are referred to collectively as cannabinoids..
The discovery of the first cannabinoid receptors in the 1980s helped to resolve this debate. These receptors are common in animals, and have been found in mammals, birds, fish, and reptiles. At present, there are two known types of cannabinoid receptors, termed CB1 and CB2, with mounting evidence of more. CBD shares a precursor with THC and is the main cannabinoid in low-THC Cannabis strains. CBD has been shown to play a role in preventing the short-term memory loss associated with THC.
When cannabinoid receptors are stimulated, a variety of physiologic processes ensue. Researchers have identified two cannabinoid receptors: CB1, predominantly present in the nervous system, connective tissues, gonads, glands, and organs; and CB2, predominantly found in the immune system and its associated structures.
Abstract. Cannabinoids have been found to have antioxidant properties, unrelated to NMDA receptor antagonism. This new found property makes cannabinoids useful in the treatment and prophylaxis of wide variety of oxidation associated diseases, such as ischemic, age-related, inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.... The cannabinoids are found to have particular application as neuroprotectants, for example in limiting neurological damage following ischemic insults, such as stroke and trauma, or in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and HIV dementia.
THC is one of many compounds found in the resin secreted by glands of the marijuana plant. More of these glands are found around the reproductive organs of the plant than on any other area of the plant. Other compounds unique to marijuana, called cannabinoids, are present in this resin. 
Cannabinoids are a class of diverse chemical compounds that act on cannabinoid receptors in cells that repress neurotransmitter release in the brain. CBD shares a precursor with THC and is the main cannabinoid in low-THC Cannabis strains. CBD has been shown to play a role in preventing the short-term memory loss associated with THC.
Cannabinoids are a group of terpenophenolic compounds found in Cannabis species (e.g., Cannabis sativa L.). This summary will review the role of Cannabis and the cannabinoids in the treatment of people with cancer and disease-related or treatment-related side effects. 
Cannabinoids. The cannabis plant contains dozens of active compounds called cannabinoids, which are found within the flower, leaf, and stem. Researchers have identified over 70 unique cannabinoids within the cannabis plant. Cannabichromene (CBC). CBC is most frequently found in tropical cannabis varieties. CBC is known to relieve pain, reduce inflammation, inhibit cell growth in tumor/cancer cells, and promote bone growth. The effects of CBC appear to be mediated through non-cannabinoid receptor interactions.