Malolactic fermentation (also known as malolactic conversion or MLF) is a process in winemaking in which tart-tasting malic acid, naturally present in grape must, is converted to softer-tasting lactic acid. The onset of malolactic fermentation in the bottle is usually considered a wine fault, as the wine will appear to the consumer to still be fermenting (as a result of CO 2 being produced).
Malolactic Fermentation is the conversion of Malic acid to Lactic acid in wines, but that is not all that is happening. Fred Scherrer of the Scherrer Winery gave us a detailed description of this process. 
'Malolactic Fermentation' (ML) describes a fermentation by malolactic bacterial culture (leuconostoc oenos) that are able to convert malic acid from grapes into lactic acid. It occurs alongside, and in addition to regular fermentation, and can be desirable for two reasons: Reducing excess acidity. Partial ML, or ongoing malolactic fermentation in a wine that is to be bottled can cause the wine to carbonate (become fizzy), break the bottle with CO2 pressure, push out the cork, and spoil the flavor. You must be certain that ML is complete and/or arrested before bottling (see below).
Malolactic fermentation tends to create a rounder, fuller mouthfeel. Malic acid is typically associated with the taste of green apples, while lactic acid is richer and more buttery tasting. Grapes produced in cool regions tend to be high in acidity, much of which comes from the contribution of malic acid. The onset of malolactic fermentation in the bottle is usually considered a wine fault, as the wine will appear to the consumer to still be fermenting (as a result of CO 2 being produced).
Malolactic fermentation is a part of the vinification process for the vast majority of red wines and a handful of white wines. Malolactic fermentation is largely associated with Chardonnay and is the main reason that Chardonnay can exhibit a buttery component on the nose and palate. While malolactic fermentation often happens naturally during the fermentation process, winemakers can determine to allow it to happen or prevent it from happening based on the stylistic results they are shooting for in the bottle.
As the name implies it is a form of fermentation. Unlike a yeast fermentation, however, during malolactic fermentation no alcohol is produced. Instead malic acid is converted into lactic acid by lactic acid bacteria. Clever name I know. Lactic acid is also present in milk and other dairy products. In fact lactic acid is often referred to as “milk acid”. If you’ve ever heard a Chardonnay described as buttery, it has likely undergone malolactic fermentation. Like a yeast fermentation a malolactic fermentation can get stuck.
Chemically, malolactic fermentation is a decarboxylation, which means carbon dioxide is liberated in the process. The primary function of all these bacteria is to convert one of the two major grape acids found in wine called L-malic acid, to another type of acid, L+ lactic acid. The onset of malolactic fermentation in the bottle is usually considered a wine fault, as the wine will appear to the consumer to still be fermenting (as a result of CO 2 being produced).