Late latent syphilis is latent syphilis where infection occurred more than 12 months ago. Latent syphilis can last for years. The late stages of syphilis can develop in about 15% of people who have not been treated for syphilis, and can appear 10–20 years after infection was first acquired. It appears at the location where syphilis entered the body. These painless chancres can occur in locations that make them difficult to find (e.g., the vagina or anus). The chancre lasts 3 to 6 weeks and heals regardless of whether a person is treated or not.
Syphilis is an STD that can cause long-term complications if not treated correctly. Symptoms in adults are divided into stages. These stages are primary, secondary, latent, and late syphilis. A syphilis infection is called an ‘early’ case if a patient has been infected for a year or less, such as during the primary or secondary stages of syphilis. People who have ‘early’ syphilis infections can more easily spread the infection to their sex partners.
First with 2 weeks of doxycycline, and a week after the doxycycline I got a 2.4 million shot of penicillin. Another 2 weeks went by and I keep getting head aches, muscle pulsing, slight stomach pains, and now some sores have started to appear. I don't know what to do, and I wonder if I am actually cured of syphilis. Round, shallow about the size of a dime 4 weeks after massage, syphilis blood test was negative. Started a course of Doxycycline 100 mg twice a day for two weeks. Sore started healing in a 2-3 days after antibiotics were started, but 1 month after the start of the sore, the scar is still present.
The stages may be separated by latent stages, or times when no symptoms are present. Symptoms vary with each stage. But the syphilis symptoms do not always occur in the same order. 1  Primary Stage — A painless sore or open, wet ulcer, which is called a chancre, appears. 2  You may have just one chancre or a few. 3  Chancres usually appear about three weeks after infection, but may take up to 90 days. 4  Without treatment, they last 3 – 6 weeks. 
Syphilis is transmitted from person to person by direct contact with a syphilitic sore, known as a chancre. Chancres occur mainly on the external genitals, vagina, anus, or in the rectum. Chancres also can occur on the lips and in the mouth. Transmission of syphilis occurs during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. It appears at the location where syphilis entered the body. These painless chancres can occur in locations that make them difficult to find (e.g., the vagina or anus). The chancre lasts 3 to 6 weeks and heals regardless of whether a person is treated or not.
Penicillin is the antibiotic most commonly used to treat syphilis. Penicillin is usually given as a shot (injection). If you are allergic to penicillin, your doctor may prescribe another antibiotic in early stages of syphilis, such as doxycycline, tetracycline, ceftriaxone, or azithromycin. Or he or she may desensitize you so that you can safely take penicillin. Later stages of syphilis may require treatment with penicillin. Exposed sex partners of a person with syphilis and babies born to women who have syphilis also need treatment. The amount of antibiotics used and how often the medicine is taken are based on the stage of the illness. For example, if neurosyphilis is present, you will need to receive antibiotics for 10 days to 2 weeks.
Symptoms can appear from 10 to 90 days after a person becomes infected, but usually within three to four weeks. Symptoms are often not noticed or are thought to be minor abrasions or heat rash and medical care is not sought. The most common symptom during this stage is a rash which may appear on any part of the body: trunk, arms, legs, palms, soles, etc. Other, more generalized symptoms may also occur. These include tiredness, fever, sore throat, headaches, hoarseness, loss of appetite and swollen glands.
Primary Stage. The primary stage of syphilis is usually marked by the appearance of a single sore (called a chancre), but there may be multiple sores. The time between infection with syphilis and the start of the first symptom can range from 10 to 90 days (average 21 days). Syphilis is passed from person to person through direct contact with a syphilis sore. Sores occur mainly on the external genitals, vagina, anus, or in the rectum. Sores also can occur on the lips and in the mouth.
This stage typically starts with the development of a rash on one or more areas of the body. Rashes associated with secondary syphilis can appear when the primary chancre is healing or several weeks after the chancre has healed. The rash usually does not cause itching. It appears at the location where syphilis entered the body. These painless chancres can occur in locations that make them difficult to find (e.g., the vagina or anus). The chancre lasts 3 to 6 weeks and heals regardless of whether a person is treated or not.
The latent stage of syphilis begins when all of the symptoms you had earlier disappear. If you do not receive treatment, you can continue to have syphilis in your body for years without any signs or symptoms. Most people with untreated syphilis do not develop late stage syphilis. However, when it does happen it is very serious and would occur 10–30 years after your infection began. A syphilis infection is called an ‘early’ case if a patient has been infected for a year or less, such as during the primary or secondary stages of syphilis. People who have ‘early’ syphilis infections can more easily spread the infection to their sex partners.