There are many different cell types in the kidney. Like in other organs, cells of the kidney can be divided into cells that make up the functional part of the kidney (called the parenchyma) and cells that make up the connective tissue and supporting structure of the kidney (the stroma).
Renal Proximal Convoluted Tubule Epithelial Cells. ZenBio offers a normal human Renal Proximal Convoluted Tubule Epithelial cell system. Renal proximal convoluted tubule epithelial cells (RPCTs) are an essential research tool for understanding a variety of biological processes in the kidneys. Renal Proximal Convoluted Tubule Epithelial Cells. For more details or to place your order, call us directly at 1-866-234-7673.
There are several types of kidney cancer: Renal cell carcinoma. Renal cell carcinoma is the most common type of adult kidney cancer, making up about 85% of diagnoses. This type of cancer develops in the proximal renal tubules that make up the kidney’s filtration system. There are thousands of these tiny filtration units in each kidney. Sarcomatoid. This is the fastest-growing and most aggressive type of kidney cancer cell. It may develop from any cell type, including clear cell, papillary, and chromophobe. It is called sarcomatoid because it looks like sarcoma under a microscope.
The major cell of the distal tubule is a cell that contains the so-called thiazide-sensitive sodium chloride cotransporter (TSC). This cell is responsible for reabsorbing about 5% of the sodium filtered by the kidney each day. It is targeted by another type of drug (called thiazides) that treats high blood pressure. Like in other organs, cells of the kidney can be divided into cells that make up the functional part of the kidney (called the parenchyma) and cells that make up the connective tissue and supporting structure of the kidney (the stroma).
Although the proximal and distal convoluted tubules are both made from columnar epithelial cells, they look different under the microscope. Cells in the distal tubule appear shorter, whereas cells in the proximal convoluted tubule have what is called a brush border appearance. These cells can be damaged due to diabetes or advanced stages of the diseases described above.
Clonetics™ Human Renal Cells include cells isolated from various normal human kidney tissue specific to each cell type. Human Renal Proximal Tubule Cells (RPTEC) are isolated from the proximal tubule. Renal Epithelial Cells (HRE) are a mixture of epithelial cells from the cortex and glomerular. Renal Cortical Cells (HRCE) are a mixture of proximal tubule and distal tubule. Mesangial Cells (NHMC) are isolated from the renal glomerulus and modified SMC between capillaries.
The proximal tubules make up a significant portion of the kidneys; proximal tubule epithelial cells are the most populous cell type in the kidney, and carry out diverse regulatory and endocrine functions where numerous transporters are located. 
Renal cell cancer is the most common type of kidney cancer in adults. More than 8 in every 10 (80%) kidney cancers diagnosed in the UK are this type. The kidney cancer information in this section is mainly about renal cell cancers. Renal cell cancer is also called renal adenocarcinoma or hypernephroma. Renal cell cancer. Renal cell cancer is the most common type of kidney cancer in adults. More than 8 in every 10 (80%) kidney cancers diagnosed in the UK are this type. This kidney cancer section is mainly about renal cell cancers. Renal cell cancer is also called renal adenocarcinoma or hypernephroma.
The collecting duct contains two cell types, called principal cells and intercalated cells. Principal cells are predominantly responsible for sodium reabsorption and potassium secretion in the kidney. This process is stimulated in the principal cells by the action of the hormone aldosterone. Like in other organs, cells of the kidney can be divided into cells that make up the functional part of the kidney (called the parenchyma) and cells that make up the connective tissue and supporting structure of the kidney (the stroma).