While the genre of storytelling has been relegated as lesser form of art because of the heavily borrowed nature of the conventions, admiration has grown. Proponents argue that the genius of an effective genre piece is in the variation, recombination, and evolution of the codes. A literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. Genre should not be confused with age category, by which literature may be classified as either adult, young-adult, or children's.
Genre (/ˈʒɒ̃rə/ , /ˈʒɒnrə/ or /ˈdʒɒnrə/ ; from French genre [ʒɑ̃ʁ(ə)] , kind or sort, from Latin genus (stem gener-), Greek γένος, genos) génos is any category of, literature music or other forms of art or, entertainment whether written or, spoken audio or, visual based on some set of stylistic. criteria A literary genre is a category of literary composition. Genres may be determined by literary technique, tone, content, or even (as in the case of fiction) length. Genre should not be confused with age category, by which literature may be classified as either adult, young-adult, or children's.
‡a Genre/form. For basic headings, subfield ‡a consists of all form, genre, and physical characteristics data when the 1st indicator value is blank (). For faceted headings, subfield ‡a consists of the focus term when the 1st indicator value is 0. A focus term is the concrete thing forming the basis of expression. Source not specified. The formulation of the genre or form term conforms to a controlled list, but the source cannot be specified by one of the thesaurus or subject heading systems covered by the other 2nd indicator values or by a code for a specific subject heading list in subfield ‡2.
A term indicating the form, genre, and/or physical characteristics of the materials being described. Genre terms for textual materials designate specific kinds of materials distinguished by the style or technique of their intellectual content (e.g., biographies, catechisms, essays, hymns, or reviews). Source not specified. The formulation of the genre or form term conforms to a controlled list, but the source cannot be specified by one of the thesaurus or subject heading systems covered by the other 2nd indicator values or by a code for a specific subject heading list in subfield ‡2.
(USMARC Format for Bibliographic Data, Genre/Form field) Genre may be defined as a recognized category of works (not their physical manifestations) characterized by a particular form, purpose or content. Definitions of physical characteristics in the library literature have to do with defining the concept for the 755 field: Physical characteristics name media, production processes, techniques, materials, and features identified by examining the physical object.
Form/genre access to radio materials is very important for a number of reasons. Since subject access to radio programs is usually lacking, form/genre terms provide one of the few ways, other than titles and added entries, of finding and grouping programs. A form/genre term(s) is not always assigned to material as it may be difficult to ascertain whether a radio program falls into a particular category. In addition, it may be more appropriate to specify the topic of the program rather than the form or genre.
Genre Definition. Genre means the type of art, literature or music characterized by a specific form, content and style. For example, literature has four main genres; poetry, drama, fiction and non-fiction. All of these genres have particular features and functions that distinguish them from one another. Poetry is the first major literary genre. All types of poetry share specific characteristics. In fact, poetry is a form of text that follows a meter and rhythm with each lines and syllables. It is further subdivided into different genres such an epic poem, narrative, romantic, dramatic, and lyric.
Answer by Hans Henderson. Confidence votes 136. Genre is used much more commonly and is a more general categorization than form; examples are jazz, rock and classical - beyond the big obvious ones, these quickly become a matter of subjective opinion. 
Once you have recongized the broad genre and form, the sub-genre or category is the next choice. Most people use the term genre to describe the category of a work. From this point on, think of a genre as a section within the local bookstore, with our apologies to purists. Form and Genre. Every story has a natural shape based on its length and genre. Some stories require a thousand pages, while others require only a one page poem. Knowing your genre and carefully selecting a proper form help your story’s appeal.