2. republic-a form of government whose head of state is not a monarch; the head of state in a republic is usually a president. form of government, political system-the members of a social organization who are in power. Translations. [rɪˈpʌblɪk] N → republica república. f n. 1. a. A political order whose head of state is not a monarch and in modern times is usually a president. b. A nation that has such a political order. 2. a. A political order in which the supreme power lies in a body of citizens who are entitled to vote for officers and representatives responsible to them.
republic. (a country with) a form of government in which there is no king or queen, the power of government, law-making etc being given to one or more elected representatives (eg a president, members of a parliament etc). The United States is a republic – the United Kingdom is not. n. 1. a. A political order whose head of state is not a monarch and in modern times is usually a president. b. A nation that has such a political order. 2. a. A political order in which the supreme power lies in a body of citizens who are entitled to vote for officers and representatives responsible to them.
Definition of REPUBLIC for Kids. : a country with elected representatives and an elected chief of state who is not a monarch and who is usually a president. 
See: polity. REPUBLIC. A commonwealth; that form of government in which the administration of affairs is open to all the citizens. In another sense, it signifies the state, independently of its form of government. 1 Toull. n. 28, and n. 202, note. The word republic, derived from the Latin res publica, or public thing, refers to a form of government where the citizens conduct their affairs for their own benefit rather than for the benefit of a ruler. Historically republics have not always been democratic in character, however.
republic. 1  a state or nation in which the supreme power rests in all the citizens entitled to vote (the electorate) and is exercised by representatives elected, directly or indirectly, by them and responsible to them. 2  the form of government of such a state or nation. The Czech Republic on a map. The Czech Republic on a map. The definition of a republic is a form of government where citizens have the power and choose representatives to represent them. An example of republic is the Czech Republic
2. republic-a form of government whose head of state is not a monarch; the head of state in a republic is usually a president. form of government, political system-the members of a social organization who are in power. Translations. A nation that has such a political order. 3. often Republic A specific republican government of a nation: the Fourth Republic of France. 4. An autonomous or partially autonomous political and territorial unit belonging to a sovereign federation.
A republic (from Latin: res publica) is a form of government or country in which power resides in elected individuals representing the citizen body and government leaders exercise power according to the rule of law. Most often a republic is a single sovereign state, but there are also sub-sovereign state entities that are referred to as republics, or which have governments that are described as 'republican' in nature.
Not a rare system of government at all. Republic by definition does not imply a concern for human rights or an inclusive democratic system. It just means that a governing body (aristocracy, military, general population, etc) ellected a head of state. Republics are by no means rare and are not necsessarily short lived. 