How to call Singapore from United States: 011 - United States exit code to dial first when calling international. 65 - Singapore country code must be dialed next 011 + 65 + Local Number-Overall dialing code format. Follow @callingcodes. We hope Country Calling Codes has been of help to you in finding the Singapore calling code for your international call from United States to Singapore. Why not bookmark this page and tell a friend about this site for the next time they need to lookup an area code or international dialing code.
Calling Singapore from the United States explained: 1  011 - US exit code; dial first for international calls made from the USA or Canada. 2  Phone Number - 8 digits; first digit is either 3 or 6 for fixed lines. 3  US to Singapore international dialing format: 
1 000, 001 - Singtel, 008 - Starhub, 002 - Mobile One, 012 - Fax Plus, 013 - Budget Call, 018 - StarHub VoIP, 019 - SingTel VoIP-Exit code for Singapore, and is needed for making any international call from Singapore. 2  1 - ISD Code or Country Code of United States. 3  Area code-There are 291 area codes in United States. You need to know the United States Area Codes to make an international call to United States from Singapore. Area Code. XX - 1 - 657 - TEL #. * Ignore the number within bracket while calling United States from another country. 
Tips for calling a cell phone in Singapore: To call a Singapore cell phone from a land line, simply follow the mobile country code dialing instructions above to place your call. 1  To call a Singapore cell phone from a land line, simply follow the mobile country code dialing instructions above to place your call. To call a Singapore cell phone from your cell phone, you may need to first use the + (plus) sign prior to entering the Singapore mobile code and telephone number
1 011 - Exit code for United States, and is needed for making any international call from United States. 2  65 - ISD Code or Country Code of Singapore. 3  Area code-There are 9 area codes in Singapore. 4  If there is an area code dial area code of the city in Singapore you are calling after dialing ISD Code. You need to know the Singapore Area Codes to make an international call to Singapore from United States. Area Code. 011 - 65 - 635 - TEL #. * Ignore the number within bracket while calling Singapore from another country.
1 For the United States and Canada, dial 011. 2  For most of South America, Asia, Europe and Africa, dial 00. 3  For some countries such as Brazil and Colombia, there are several exit codes to choose from, depending on the international call carrier you intend to use. Tips. 1  If you would like to call a Singapore mobile number, dial the exit code of your country, 65 (country code for Singapore), and the eight-digit Singapore mobile number (normally starts with an 8 or 9).
The Singapore country code 65 will allow you to call Singapore from another country. Singapore telephone code 65 is dialed after the IDD. Singapore international dialing 65 is followed by an area code. The Singapore area code table below shows the various city codes for Singapore. Singapore country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Singapore dialing code, you can make your international call
Follow the above dialing format while making a call From United States to Singapore. 1  011 - Exit code for United States, and is needed for making any international call from United States. 2  65 - ISD Code or Country Code of Singapore. 3  Area code-There are 9 area codes in Singapore. You need to know the Singapore Area Codes to make an international call to Singapore from United States. Area Code. 011 - 65 - 635 - TEL #. * Ignore the number within bracket while calling Singapore from another country.
The dialing code is also described as phone code 1 or dialing code 1 and is sometimes described as a calling code or international dialing code. The dialing code for USA is 1. Exit codes and dialing codes are required to call from Singapore to USA. To call internationally from Singapore uses IDD code 001. IDD codes are known as exit codes and exit code 001 is Singapore. The exit code for Singapore is 001. Calling From Calling To Singapore Select Country USA Select Area Select Area ExitCode CountryCode AreaCode LocalNumber 001 1 ######. EXIT CODE This is the code you need to dial OUT from a country.