Lead is used in applications where its low melting point, ductility and high density are advantageous. The low melting point makes casting of lead easy, and therefore small arms ammunition and shotgun pellets can be cast with minimal technical equipment. Lead has only one common allotrope, which is face-centered cubic, with the length of an edge of a unit cell being 349 pm. At 327.5 °C (621.5 °F), lead melts; the melting point exceeds that of tin (232 °C, 449.5 °F), but is significantly below that of germanium (938 °C, 1721 °F).
Antimonial lead with 2%+ Arsenic for base and pure lead with 1% Tin for the point might do it well with the heat/no quench treatment But really the color between linotype/pure is easily visible with heat/quench treatment to bring up the flashy surface color of linotype. I'd still like to get an idea of the possibility of there being any kind of dye or other substance I can safely add to my molten lead that would give me the incidental effect of changing the color of my alloy when it becomes solidified.
Lead has a relatively low melting point, so it is ideal for casting into shapes of your choosing. There are varied applications for melting and reshaping lead; it is ideal for creating custom-sized fishing weights, and it is also perfect for creating oddly-shaped weights to adjust the weight of a hobby car or plane. Set up your vessel and heating source. Lead should be melted in a well ventilated, fire safe area, as it can create dangerous fumes and present a fire hazard if not handled properly. The best heating source is a hand held oxygen-acetaline torch for melting amounts of lead.
Lead is a bright and silvery metal with a very slight shade of blue in a dry atmosphere. On contact with air, it begins to tarnish by forming a complex mixture of compounds depending on the conditions. The color of the compounds can vary. Lead has only one common allotrope, which is face-centered cubic, with the length of an edge of a unit cell being 349 pm. At 327.5 °C (621.5 °F), lead melts; the melting point exceeds that of tin (232 °C, 449.5 °F), but is significantly below that of germanium (938 °C, 1721 °F).
Zinc, incidentally, does not dissolve in molten lead, and can be added to extract impurities by differential solubility. Lead is sold as soft lead, 99.90% pure, common lead (lead that has been desilvered), 99.85% pure, and corroding lead (for paint), 99.94% pure. In this oxidation state, lead is generally basic. The oxidation state +4 also occurs, and in it lead is more acidic. Lead is generally amphoteric, like aluminium, especially in the +4 state, like tin. Lead forms a series of oxides, which are important compounds.
Lead (/lɛd/) is a chemical element in the carbon group with symbol Pb (from Latin: plumbum) and atomic number 82. Lead is a soft, malleable and heavy post-transition metal. Metallic lead has a bluish-white color after being freshly cut, but it soon tarnishes to a dull grayish color when exposed to air. Lead has a shiny chrome-silver luster when it is melted into a liquid. It is also the heaviest non-radioactive element (some radioactive elements, like technetium, are lighter). Lead has only one common allotrope, which is face-centered cubic, with the length of an edge of a unit cell being 349 pm. At 327.5 °C (621.5 °F), lead melts; the melting point exceeds that of tin (232 °C, 449.5 °F), but is significantly below that of germanium (938 °C, 1721 °F).
The melting point of lead is 327.35°C, and the boiling point is 1515°C. The only common metals with lower melting points are tin and bismuth, while the boiling point is high enough to allow processes in liquid lead over a wide temperature range. The coefficient of linear expansion is 29.5 x 10 -4 per °C. In this oxidation state, lead is generally basic. The oxidation state +4 also occurs, and in it lead is more acidic. Lead is generally amphoteric, like aluminium, especially in the +4 state, like tin. Lead forms a series of oxides, which are important compounds.
Molten lead color. Hi all-I was doing some casting this weekend and noticed that I couldn't quite keep the color of the molten lead a shiney silver color (like quicksilver / mercury). Instead, it was more of a gold color, with a thin skin on the top. gold is a good indicator of tin. pure lead will usually show a blue/purple color. put a heat barrier on top of your mix it will also help keep the oxides down and the temp more consistant. it's all an educated guess,,,, till the trigger is pulled. this opinion brought to you by mister low-tech solution.