The nucleus is an organelle that is surrounded by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope separates the contents of the nucleus from the rest of the cell. Eukaryotic cells also have a cell membrane (plasma membrane), cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and various cellular organelles.
Each of your cells has a boss, too: the nucleus. This control center runs the show, instructing the cell to carry out basic functions, such as growth, development and division. Most of your body’s genetic material -- its deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA -- is located inside
Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA.
Organelle Type. (not necessarily all functions): 1. Nucleus. Control Center of the cell.  Contains the cell's DNA (genetic information) in the form of genes. Re. Nucleic Acids. * 1 Sequestration and *replication of DNA. * 2 Transcription and *modification of RNA.
1 Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. 3  Mitochondria-as the cell's power producers, mitochondria convert energy into forms that are usable by the cell.
Eukaryotic Organelles. 1  Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell.
The nucleus, which is basically the brain of the cell, controls the cell's activities. Under it's control are the mitochondria, chloroplasts, ribosomes, and other cell parts.
Nucleus-The nucleus is the control center of the cell. It is the largest organelle in the cell and it contains the DNA of the cell. DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid) contains all the information for cells to live, perform their functions and reproduce.