A marking on a horse's muzzle showing pink skin under most of the white hairs, dark skin at the edges of the marking. Markings on horses usually are distinctive white areas on an otherwise dark base coat color. Most horses have some markings, and they help to identify the horse as a unique individual. 1 Roan: A horse coat color that features white and dark hairs intermingled together, but the horse has head and legs of the base color with very little white. 2  Roans sometimes have dark areas on their coats similar to Bend-Or spots, called corn marks.
Once they have hatched, the mother caiman takes her young to a shallow pool of water where they can learn how to hunt and swim. Caimans are found in a variety of habitats throughout Central and South America from marshes and swamps to mangrove rivers and lakes. As with other reptiles, caimans have scaly skin and live a fairly nocturnal existence. Caimans range in size from the dwarf caiman which measures just over a meter in length, to the black caiman which can to grow to be nearly 5 meters long. The black caiman is the largest caiman species in the world and is found in the slow-moving rivers and lakes that surround the Amazon basin. There are six different species of caiman found throughout the watery, jungle habitats of Central and Southern America.
Humans are the main predators of the caiman as they have been hunted for their meat and skin. Jaguars are the only other predator of the caiman. Female caimans build a large nest in which to lay their eggs, which can be more than 1.5 meters wide. The black caiman is the largest caiman species in the world and is found in the slow-moving rivers and lakes that surround the Amazon basin. There are six different species of caiman found throughout the watery, jungle habitats of Central and Southern America.
Trademark distinctiveness is an important concept in the law governing trademarks and service marks. A trademark may be eligible for registration, or registrable, if it performs the essential trademark function, and has distinctive character. Registrability can be understood as a continuum, with inherently distinctive marks at one end, generic and descriptive marks with no distinctive character at the other end, and suggestive and arbitrary marks lying between these two points.
Click To Enlarge. Juvenile Caimans are yellow in color with black spots and bands on the body and tail. As they mature, they lose this yellow color and the markings become less distinct. Adults are dull olive-green. Spectacled caimans are the most common species of the crocodilian family. The Spectacled Caiman is one of the smallest crocodilians, but is the largest of the caiman family.
This marking signifies a female southern black widow. A male black widow has a distinctive pattern on the dorsal side (or upper side) of the spider's abdomen that consists of a row of reddish dots and white or yellow lines. 1  Occasionally, the color of the hourglass can be yellow or orange, and every once in a while, you can find a female with only one triangle. 3. Examine the shape of the abdomen. Black Widows have plump, rounded abdomens that are directly attached to the spider’s thorax, behind the spider's back pair of legs.The abdomen is the same color as the head and is where you will find any distinctive markings on the spider.
In appearance, they are similar to Caiman crocodilus (of which they were thought to be a subspecies until a few years ago) although with a heavier head and more colourful markings with bold black slashes on the lower jaw. Adult males can grow to at least 2.5 metres (8 feet) and sometimes approach 3.0 metres (10 feet). 
Juvenile spectacled caimans are yellowish in colour, with black spots and bands on the body and tail. As an individual matures, it becomes more olive-green, and the markings become less distinct. Interestingly, this species may have some ability to change colour. 