Indigestion (also known as dyspepsia) happens to almost everyone from time to time. Eating habits or a chronic digestive problem can trigger indigestion. Indigestion can cause stomach pain or bloating. You may also have heartburn, nausea, and vomiting. Other common symptoms of indigestion include: 1  feeling full during a meal and not being able to finish eating. 2  feeling extremely full after eating a normal-sized meal. Common digestive diseases that can cause indigestion include: 1  acid reflux disease (also called GERD). 2  gastric cancer. 3  pancreatic or bile duct abnormalities. 4  peptic ulcers (sores in the lining of the stomach and esophagus caused by the H. pylori bacteria).
You might have burning or pain in the upper part of your stomach, too. It’s indigestion, also called dyspepsia. Indigestion is often a sign of an underlying problem, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), ulcers, or gallbladder disease, rather than a condition of its own. Any treatment you get will depend on what the cause is. If you swallow too much air when you eat, that can make belching and bloating worse. People often have indigestion along with heartburn (a burning feeling deep in the chest), which happens when stomach acids rise into the esophagus.
Conditions that may cause belching include: 1  gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD): disorder that causes acid from the stomach to flow upward into the esophagus, or food pipe. 2  gastroparesis (also called delayed gastric emptying): disorder in which the muscles in your stomach wall are weakened. Foods. Some foods and drinks can also cause more frequent belching. These include carbonated drinks, alcohol, and foods high in starch, sugar, or fiber that cause gas. Common culprits include beans, lentils, broccoli, peas, onions, cabbage, cauliflower, bananas, raisins, and whole-wheat bread.
Gas (flatus), burping, and bloating are all normal conditions. Gas is made in the stomach and intestines as your body breaks down food into energy. Gas and burping may sometimes be embarrassing. Bloating, which is a feeling of fullness in the abdomen, can make you uncomfortable. Common causes of gas and bloating include: 1  Swallowed air. 2  If swallowed air is not burped up, it passes through the digestive tract and is released through the anus as flatus. 3  Excessive air swallowing may cause hiccups. 4  Foods and beverages. 5  The amount of gas that different foods cause varies from person to person
1 Indigestion is an uncomfortable feeling of fullness, pain, or burning in your upper abdomen. 2  Symptoms of indigestion include. 3  abdominal pain, 4  heartburn or acid indigestion (acid reflux), 5  bloating, 6  gas, 7  nausea, 8  acidic taste in the mouth, 9  stomach discomfort, 10  constipation or diarrhea, and. 1 heartburn or acid indigestion (acid reflux), 2  bloating, 3  gas, 4  nausea, 5  acidic taste in the mouth, 6  stomach discomfort, 7  constipation or diarrhea, and. 8  decreased appetite. 9  Indigestion has many causes including medical conditions, medications, diet, and lifestyle.
1 Symptoms of indigestion include. 2  abdominal pain, 3  heartburn or acid indigestion (acid reflux), 4  bloating, 5  gas, 6  nausea, 7  acidic taste in the mouth, 8  stomach discomfort, 9  constipation or diarrhea, and. 10  decreased appetite. 1 heartburn or acid indigestion (acid reflux), 2  bloating, 3  gas, 4  nausea, 5  acidic taste in the mouth, 6  stomach discomfort, 7  constipation or diarrhea, and. 8  decreased appetite. 9  Indigestion has many causes including medical conditions, medications, diet, and lifestyle.
While the symptoms of indigestion and burping can be mild, some of the underlying causes can be very serious. The most common causes are gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), gastritis, and stomach ulcers. GERD occurs when food travels back up the esophagus instead of remaining in the stomach. Gastritis and stomach ulcers are similar in that they both are disorders pertaining to the stomach. Certain foods like onions cause both burping and indigestion. Drinking a mixture of baking soda and water can help with indigestion. An antacid. GERD is one cause of indigestion and burping. Gastritis is a common
Burping can occur voluntarily, and frequent burping may be a habit practiced to relieve indigestion. Heartburn and acid indigestion are common complaints of folks suffering from gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD. GERD is caused by laxity of the valve at the junction of the stomach and esophagus. 
Belching and Heartburn. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms belching and heartburn including Heartburn/GERD, Hiatal hernia, and Indigestion. There are 11 conditions associated with belching and h