Iron Sources. Eat foods high in iron from the given list including those for vegetarians, vegans and meat and fish lovers. Iron in animal foods such as beef, chicken, clams, mussels, oysters, pork, sardines, shrimp and turkey are also listed. Know what foods are low in fat but high in iron. 1 Vegetables: Beetroot greens, mint, parsley, turnip greens. 2  Vegetables like broccoli and bok choy are rich in iron and also high in vitamin C. 3  The presence of vitamin C in these vegetables help absorb iron. 4  Sea vegetables.
Fortunately, many vegetables, such as broccoli and bok choy, which are high in iron, are also high in vitamin C so that the iron in these foods is very well absorbed. Commonly eaten combinations, such as beans and tomato sauce or stir-fried tofu and broccoli, also result in generous levels of iron absorption. Non-heme iron, 60 percent of the iron in animal tissue and all the iron in plants (fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts) is less well absorbed. Because vegan diets only contain non-heme iron, vegans should be especially aware of foods that are high in iron and techniques that can promote
List of Iron-Rich Foods for Vegetarians. Spinach is a good vegetarian source of iron. Iron, an essential mineral, is necessary for normal human growth and development. Many women in childbearing years can be iron-deficient. 
Your body absorbs iron best from meat, fish and poultry. But if you’re vegetarian, be sure to pair your iron-rich beans, lentils, and dark leafy greens with tomatoes, citrus, squash, broccoli and other foods high in vitamin C to unlock the full potential of the iron available in plants. Andrea’s Pasta Fagioli.
Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1. 
If you are a vegetarian, you need to include plenty of iron-rich foods in your diet. You should also take care to combine iron-rich foods with foods that enhance iron absorption, and avoid foods and drinks that inhibit absorption. For vegetarians, sources of iron include: 1  tofu; 2  legumes (lentils, dried peas and beans); 3  wholegrain cereals (in particular, iron-fortified breakfast cereals); 4  green vegetables such as broccoli or Asian greens; 5  nuts, especially cashews; 6  dried fruits such as apricots; 7  eggs; and
Dried beans and dark green leafy vegetables are especially good sources of iron, even better on a per calorie basis than meat. Iron absorption is increased markedly by eating foods containing vitamin C along with foods containing iron. Vegetarians do not have a higher incidence of iron deficiency than do meat eaters. Non-heme iron, 60 percent of the iron in animal tissue and all the iron in plants (fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts) is less well absorbed. Because vegan diets only contain non-heme iron, vegans should be especially aware of foods that are high in iron and techniques that can promote iron absorption.
Sources of iron. Pulses including chickpeas, lentils, kidney beans and tofu. Sprouted beans and seeds such as aduki beans, alfafa and sunflower seeds. Cereals and products such as breakfast cereals and bread. Green leafy vegetables including spinach, kale and cabbage and also broccoli. 
In fact, vegetarians have tons of iron-rich options in the form of fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and more. Most of these colorful foods also contain several other essential vitamins, nutrients, and minerals, so adding these healthy, iron-rich foods to your diet can improve your health in many great ways. Many vegetarians and vegans worry about getting enough iron in their diet. Since meat is traditionally thought of as the main source of iron, vegetarians need to find different sources to help them reach their recommended amount of iron each day.
Most of the iron found in eggs is heme iron that will be easily absorbed, and will also help your body better absorb non-heme iron from vegetable sources. To get the most out of your eggs, combine them with iron-rich vegetables such as spinach, broccoli, beans, bean sprouts or potatoes. Photo Credit Westend61/Westend61/Getty Images. Most vegetarian sources of iron also contain vitamin C, or are easily paired with foods rich in this vitamin. This may be why vegetarians do not suffer from iron deficiency at a greater rate than omnivores, according to the Vegetarian Resource Group.