twig. A small stick. By extension of this, someone who is bone-thin, usually unattractively so, whether they are naturally that thin or not. Usually accompanied by chicken legs and a lack of booty in both sexes, a lack of muscle tone in males, and a lack of breasts and hips and curves in females. Also see Twiggy, legendary 1960s supermodel who idealized this androgynous, starving waif look.
1 British English: twig A twig is a very small thin branch that grows out from a main branch of a tree or bush. 2  NOUNThere is the bird, sitting on a twig halfway up the tree. Translations for 'twig'. 1  British English: twig A twig is a very small thin branch that grows out from a main branch of a tree or bush. 2  Brazilian Portuguese: graveto. 3  Chinese: 细枝 细細枝. 4  European Spanish: ramita. 5  French: brindille. 6  German: Zweig. 7  Italian: ramoscello. 8  Japanese: 小枝. 9  Korean: 잔가지. 10  Portuguese: graveto. 11 
• TWIG (noun). The noun TWIG has 1 sense: 1. a small branch or division of a branch (especially a terminal division); usually applied to branches of the current or preceding year. Familiarity information: TWIG used as a noun is very rare. 
Translations for 'twig'. 1  British English: twig A twig is a very small thin branch that grows out from a main branch of a tree or bush. 2  NOUNThere is the bird, sitting on a twig halfway up the tree. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: graveto. Translations for 'twig'. 1  British English: twig A twig is a very small thin branch that grows out from a main branch of a tree or bush. 2  Brazilian Portuguese: graveto. 3  Chinese: 细枝 细細枝. 4  European Spanish: ramita. 5  French: brindille. 6  German: Zweig. 7  Italian: ramoscello. 8  Japanese: 小枝. 9  Korean: 잔가지. 10  Portuguese: graveto. 11 
Definition of TWIG. 1. : a small shoot or branch usually without its leaves. 2. : a minute branch of a nerve or artery. — twigged \ˈtwigd\ adjective. — twig·gy \ˈtwi-gē\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A twig is a small thin terminal branch of a woody plant. The buds on the twig are an important diagnostic characteristic, as are the abscission scars where the leaves have fallen away. There are two types of twig, vegetative twigs and fruiting spurs. Fruiting spurs are specialized twigs that generally branch off the sides of branches and leading twigs, and are stubby and slow-growing, with many annular ring markings from seasons past.
A twig is a small thin terminal branch of a woody plant. The buds on the twig are an important diagnostic characteristic, as are the abscission scars where the leaves have fallen away. The color, texture, and patterning of the twig bark are also important, in addition to the thickness and nature of any pith of the twig.
twig. n. 1. (Botany) any small branch or shoot of a tree or other woody plant. 2. (Anatomy) something resembling this, esp a minute branch of a blood vessel. twig 1. a small, thin offshoot of a wooden branch or stem. [before 950; Middle English; Old English twig, twigge; akin to Middle Low German twīch, Old High German zwīg (akin to twi -)]. twig′gy, adj. -gi•er, -gi•est.
twig 1. n. 1. A young shoot representing the current season's growth of a woody plant. 2. Any small, leafless branch of a woody plant. [Middle English, from Old English. ; see dwo-in Indo-European roots .]. twig 1. a small, thin offshoot of a wooden branch or stem. [before 950; Middle English; Old English twig, twigge; akin to Middle Low German twīch, Old High German zwīg (akin to twi -)]. twig′gy, adj. -gi•er, -gi•est.