Laundry Detergent vs. Laundry Soap. It is important to note that laundry soap and laundry detergent are not the same thing. A soap, is by definition a mixture of fats and oils with an alkalai or base, like this recipe for crock pot soap that uses a mixture of olive and coconut oils with a lye and water base. 
In Canada, cold tap water is around 8 to 10 degrees Celsius or 46 to 50 degrees Fahrenheit. The differences are significant when you are trying to remove stains from clothing. That's why Sunlight laundry detergent now comes in a COLD water formula! Sunlight Deep Clean Cold Water Powder. One of the newest Sunlight laundry detergent line is Deep Clean which was voted by Canadian Living as the one of the 2011 Best New Products. Sunlight Deep Clean is available in liquid and powder formulas and is formulated to remove heavy duty dirt and body soil. If you like to use cold water for laundry, I would recommend Sunlight as an effective, heavy-duty detergent. Disclosure: Review samples were provided by the manufacturer. For more information, please see our Ethics Policy.
Their message: Heating water to do laundry is one of the largest users of energy in a typical home. So, switch to washing in cold water – it gets clothes just as clean as hot water, while using less energy and money. Switching from hot or warm water to cold water washing saves that energy. In fact, each household that makes the switch to cold-water washing eliminates about 1,600 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions a year, according to the Sierra Club.
However, you can make a paste with the powder and a bit of water to pretreat stains. If you like to use cold water for laundry, I would recommend Sunlight as an effective, heavy-duty detergent. Disclosure: Review samples were provided by the manufacturer. For more information, please see our Ethics Policy.
There are good reasons to use cold water and good reasons to wash on hot so let’s explore why temperature is important in certain situations and clear some myths and misconceptions about washing on cold and hot water. The cost/energy savings of washing in cold is obvious. I won’t argue with that for a second. If you are washing in cold water and using more detergent to make up for the cold, you’re creating a possible buildup situation in the machine. On a heavily soiled garment, you can get away with warm water instead of hot 99% of the time.
A. Yes. The consensus is that cold water is more than up to the challenge of washing everyday laundry. “Technological advances, in both machines and detergents (not just the cold-specific kind), have made cold-water washing a highly effective option,” says Colorado-based clothing-care expert Steve Boorstein. 
Energy-Saving Tips. Washing clothes in cold water with cold-water detergents not only will save energy and money – it also will preserve fabric color. To save even more energy while washing and drying your laundry, the Alliance recommends that you: 1  Do full loads of laundry. Switching from hot or warm water to cold water washing saves that energy. In fact, each household that makes the switch to cold-water washing eliminates about 1,600 pounds of carbon dioxide emissions a year, according to the Sierra Club.
Sunlight Deep Clean promises to tackle those hidden odors and soils. Sunlight Deep Clean Laundry Detergent. Sunlight Deep Clean is formulated to penetrate the fibers of your clothing and lift away embedded body soil and allergens like pet dander and dust mites. As one of the newest products in the Sunlight laundry family, Deep Clean was voted by Canadian Living as the one of the 2011 Best New Products. Deep Clean is available in both liquid and powdered formulas. Liquid offerings include Sunlight Deep Clean Cold Water and Deep Clean Fresh Rain. All formulas are suitable to use in high-efficiency and regular washer
The liquid detergent cleans very well (even in cold water) and can brighten clothes more with FBA (fluorescent brightening agents). It is available in a variety of clean scents, as well as a free & pure option. With options for HE and standard washers, you can use this with any washing machine. Tide Plus Coldwater is a favorite brand amongst households and national review sites alike. As a Good Housekeeping choice for one of the best laundry detergents, this Tide for cold water proved to remove more tough stains in cold water than other detergents were able to accomplish in hot water.