Collins has been described by AllMusic as one of the most successful pop and adult contemporary singers of the '80s and beyond. Collins joined Genesis in 1970 as the group's drummer and became their lead vocalist in 1975 following the departure of the original lead singer Peter Gabriel. Collins left Genesis in 1996 to focus on his solo career. He formed The Phil Collins Big Band with himself on drums, the band performed jazz renditions of songs from Genesis and his solo career. His sixth solo album, Dance into the Light, was released in October 1996.
Born in London in 1951, Phil Collins became one of the most successful musicians in the world during the 1980s after having replaced Peter Gabriel as the face of Genesis in 1975.Between 1984 and 1990 he released 13 U.S. Top Ten hits, including In the Air Tonight, You Can't Hurry Love and I Don't Care Anymore. In 1975, Collins became the face of Genesis when Gabriel left the band to embark on a solo career. The group had auditioned some 400 singers to replace their front man, before turning inward and handing the baton to Collins.
Thomas Niedermueller, Getty Images. Phil Collins admitted last fall that he’d been considering the possibility of a return to active duty. Now, according to Collins’ longtime bassist Lee Sklar, it looks like a comeback might really be in the cards. 
Wikipedia. Philip David Charles Phil Collins, LVO (born 30 January 1951), is an English singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, music producer and actor. He gained fame as both the drummer and lead singer for the rock band Genesis, and he also gained worldwide fame as a solo artist. Collins has been described by AllMusic as one of the most successful pop and adult contemporary singers of the '80s and beyond. Collins joined Genesis in 1970 as the group's drummer and became their lead vocalist in 1975 following the departure of the original lead singer Peter Gabriel.
A young Phil Collen can also be seen on the back cover of Deep Purple 's live album Made in Japan as the live photo was actually taken at the Brixton Academy in London, a concert Collen attended, and not in Japan. Philip Kenneth Phil Collen (born 8 December 1957) is the co-lead guitarist and one of the backing vocalists for the English rock band Def Leppard.
Mini Bio (1). Phil Collins was born in Chiswick, London, England, to Winifred (Strange), a theatrical agent, Greville Philip Austin Collins, an insurance agent. He spent most of his early entertainment life as a young actor and model. In 1988, at the height of his success as a solo artist and in Genesis, Collins was estimated to be one of the 100 richest men in Britain. In 2009 the Sunday Times List estimated his net worth at $177 million.
Collins is one of the most successful songwriters and performers of all time, singing the lead vocals on dozens of hit albums and singles in the UK and the US between 1976 and 2010, either as a solo artist or with Genesis. Collins left Genesis in 1996 to focus on his solo career. He formed The Phil Collins Big Band with himself on drums, the band performed jazz renditions of songs from Genesis and his solo career. His sixth solo album, Dance into the Light, was released in October 1996.
In the Air Tonight  is a song by English drummer, singer and songwriter Phil Collins. It first appeared on Collins' 1981 inaugural solo album, Face Value. In the Air Tonight remains a popular selection on many classic rock radio stations. It is the song most often associated with Collins' solo career, and he has performed versions of it at many events, most notably at Live Aid, where he played the song on a piano on the same calendar day in both Philadelphia and London.
Philip David Charles Phil Collins, LVO (born 30 January 1951), is an English singer, songwriter, musician, music producer and actor. Collins left Genesis in 1996 to focus on his solo career. He formed The Phil Collins Big Band with himself on drums, the band performed jazz renditions of songs from Genesis and his solo career. His sixth solo album, Dance into the Light, was released in October 1996.