Low-carb diets. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease. Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates
Carbohydrates from food and drinks provide energy for your daily activities. In general, about 47-50% of your daily daily calories intake should be in the form of carbohydrates. The amount of carbohydrates that your body needs in a day depends on your size, age, activities level and many other factors. 
Carbs in Natural Foods. Sugar-carbs are found in a range of natural food, including milk (containing lactose, or milk sugar), fruits (containing fructose, or fruit sugar) and sugar beet (containing sucrose). Starch-carbs are found in all cereal grains, as well as roots and tubers. Starchy foods include: bread, pasta, rice, noodles, couscous, tapioca, potatoes, sweet potatoes and yams. Dietary fiber carbohydrates (soluble and insoluble fiber) are found in most plant foods, like fruits and vegetables, legumes and whole grain cereals. 
Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan. Featured book: The Complete Guide to Carb Counting, 3rd Edition.
The Good Carb Bad Carb Bottom Line Unhealthy bad carbs are filled with empty calories that have no nutritional value. And eating a diet high in bad carbohydrate foods, as most everyone does, increases your risk of heart disease, stroke, arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity. Bad carbs are carbohydrate foods that have been highly refined and processed, removing most of the nutritional value and fiber. They're generally loaded with high-calorie fats, sweeteners, preservatives and other unhealthy additives.
by Anne Harding. Carbohydrates are sugar-based molecules found in many foods, from cookies to cantaloupes. If you have diabetes, planning your carb intakeand sticking to the planis critical to keep blood sugar on an even keel and to cut your risk of diabetes-related problems like heart disease and stroke. Whether or not you have diabetes, you should aim to get about half your calories from complex carbohydrates (which are high in fiber), 20-25% from protein, and no more than 30% from fat, says Lalita Kaul, PhD, RD, a spokesperson for the American Dietetic Association. Next: How to read a food label.
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. 
Starch is the main form of carbohydrate in our food. It is present in a variety of cereals, vegetables and fruit, with major contributions from flour, potatoes and legumes (beans, peas). Starchy foods are usually cooked to improve digestibility and give a more desirable texture and flavour. 
Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are call