The interlobar arteries are vessels of the renal circulation which supply the renal lobes. This article incorporates text in the public domain from the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918). 
Remember that the afferent arteriole brings blood to the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole takes blood away from the glomerulus. The efferent arterioles either 1) carry blood to capillaries in the medulla (Vasa recta) or 2) form anastomotic capillaries in the cortex (peritubular plexus). The ARCUATE arteries (which arise from the interlobar arteries) run along the cortico-medullary junction and can be seen on cross section in histologic renal sections. Since this vessel courses through the cortico-medullary junction in the shape of an ARC, it is called the ARCUATE ARTERY.
CT Pulmonary Angiography PA Anatomy. Pulmonary Artery Anatomy. The main pulmonary artery (MPA) is intrapericardial and courses posteriorly and superiorly from the pulmonic valve. It divides into the left pulmonary artery (LPA) and right pulmonary artery (RPA) at the level of the fifth thoracic vertebra. 
Heart Descending aorta Renal artery Interlobar artery Arcuate artery Interlobular artery Afferent artery Glomerular capillaries *(majority of waste goes this route) Glomerular capsule PCT Nephron loop DCT Collecting tubule Minor calyx Major calyx Renal pelvis Ureter Urinary bladder Urethra Excreted. If blood pressure is too low, waste products will not enter the nephron and instead enter the efferent artery and stay in the body. If blood pressure is too high, excess pressure may damage the glomerular capillaries.
There needs to be specific amount of blood pressure at glomerular capillaries to force the waste from capillaries into the glomerular capsule. If blood pressure is too low, waste products will not enter the nephron and instead enter the efferent artery and stay in the body. If blood pressure is too high, excess pressure may damage the glomerular capillaries.
Heart Descending aorta Renal artery Interlobar artery Arcuate artery Interlobular artery Afferent artery Glomerular capillaries * Efferent artery Vasa recta Interlobular vein Arcuate vein Interlobar vein Renal vein Inferior vena cava Heart. If blood pressure is too low, waste products will not enter the nephron and instead enter the efferent artery and stay in the body. If blood pressure is too high, excess pressure may damage the glomerular capillaries.
Efferent arterioles of glomeruli in the outer cortex form the peritubular plexus which surrounds proximal and distal tubules. Efferent arterioles of glomeruli in the deeper cortex contribute to the adjacent peritubular plexus and also form the vasa recta which accompany the loop of Henle into the medulla. The ARCUATE arteries (which arise from the interlobar arteries) run along the cortico-medullary junction and can be seen on cross section in histologic renal sections. Since this vessel courses through the cortico-medullary junction in the shape of an ARC, it is called the ARCUATE ARTERY.
The glomerulus, glomerular capsule, and convoluted tubule are located in the renal cortex. Fluid passes from the proximal convoluted tubule to the loop of Henle. This fluid is carried into the medulla in the descending limb of the loop and returns to the cortex in the ascending limb of the loop. 2. Trace the course of blood flow through the kidney from the renal artery to the renal vein. 3. Trace the course of tubular fluid from the glomerular capsules to the ureter. 4. Draw a diagram of the tubular component of a nephron.
The interlobular septae are located between secondary pulmonary lobules and are continuous with both the subpleural interstitium (peripheral connective tissue) and the peribronchovascular interstitium (axial connective tissue) as well as the more delicate intralobular septa. The interlobular septa are incomplete allowing for communication between adjacent secondary pulmonary lobules (canals of Lambert and pores of Kohn).
Glomeruli-Interstitium-Tubules-Vessels Vessels. The main renal artery arises from the aorta and it is divided, usually, into the anterior and posterior branches and sometimes also into an inferior division. This artery is divided to form the segmental arteries, usually four or five, although there are many variants. The cortical radial or interlobular arteries (asterisk) are branches of the arcuate and originate the afferent arterioles. Usually they have, depending of the thickness of their wall, several layers of muscular cells. The structures marked with the green arrows are arterioles. (H&E, X300).