The activation synthesis model of dreaming was first proposed in 1977 by Hobson and McCarley. It answers all the questions about the meaning of dreams by the simple expedient of declaring them meaningless. There's nothing there to interpret. According to the activation-synthesis theory, dreams are merely the brain's reaction to random biological processes that occur during sleep. Various parts of the brain-in particular the pons, part of the brain stem-continue to function and produce stimuli during sleep and REM sleep in particular. The activation-synthesis hypothesis has the advantage that it renders dreams meaningless and removes any need to understand or interpret them. Some would argue that this is also its biggest disadvantage.
activation-synthesis theory. Edit 0 22 …. Book Definition: Theory developed by Harvard University psychiatrists John Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley that dreams begin with random electrical activation coming from the brain stem. It answers all the questions about the meaning of dreams by the simple expedient of declaring them meaningless
Activation-Synthesis Model In 1977, two boundary-breaking researchers proposed a revolutionary theory of dreaming. In essence, they claimed that dreams do not bear deeper meanings, as many of us think they do, and that they are simply responses to the bodys active physiology that occurs while we sleep. In 1977, two boundary-breaking researchers proposed a revolutionary theory of dreaming. The activation portion of the model In detail, the theory suggested that while we sleep a location in the brain stem occasionally is activated and creates electrical impulses.
Combining Hobson's activation synthesis hypothesis with Solms' findings, the continual-activation theory of dreaming presented by Jie Zhang proposes that dreaming is a result of brain activation and synthesis; at the same time, dreaming and REM sleep are controlled by different brain mechanisms. Tarnow's theory is a reworking of Freud's theory of dreams in which Freud's unconscious is replaced with the long-term memory system and Freud's Dream Work describes the structure of long-term memory.
ABSTRACT. A definition of the term activation-synthesis hypothesis is presented. It refers to a theory of dreaming based on the evidence indicating that the brain is active during sleep and postulates that dreams are a conscious interpretation of all this activity. 
The activation-synthesis theory of dreams offers a neurobiological explanation of dream development. According to the activation-synthesis theory, dreams are the result of the cerebral cortex's attempt to make sense of the neural activity occurring in other parts of the brain during sleep. The activation-synthesis theory of dreaming cannot explain all dream activity but does provide important insights into the neurobiology of dream activity. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
The activation-synthesis hypothesis, proposed by Harvard University psychiatrists John Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley, is a neurobiological theory of dreams first published in the American Journal of Psychiatry in December 1977. 
Activation-Synthesis Theory. Another theory, called the activation-synthesis theory, proposes that neurons in the brain randomly activate during REM sleep. Dreams arise when the cortex of the brain tries to make meaning out of these random neural impulses. According to activation-synthesis theory, dreams are basically brain sparks
Activation-synthesis theory is a neurobiological explanation for the genesis of dreams first proposed in the late 1970s by J. Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley. The activation-synthesis theory of dreaming cannot explain all dream activity but does provide important insights into the neurobiology of dream activity. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Activation Synthesis Theory is a neurobiological theory of dreams, put forward by Allan Hobson and Robert McCarley in 1977, which states that dreams are a random event caused by firing of neurons in the brain. 