The Sperm's Long Journey. A man may ejaculate 40 million to150 million sperm, which start swimming upstream toward the fallopian tubes on their mission to fertilize an egg. Fast-swimming sperm can reach the egg in a half an hour, while others may take days. The sperm can live up to 48-72 hours. Only a few hundred will even come close to the egg, because of the many natural barriers that exist in a woman's body. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl
Fertilization: Sperm Penetrates Egg. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl. The sperm can live up to 48-72 hours. Only a few hundred will even come close to the egg, because of the many natural barriers that exist in a woman's body
Usually, it's because the sperm  gets into the fallopian tube before the egg is released. Once  there, the sperm wait for an egg to arrive. After fertilization, it  can take 5-10 days for the fertilized egg to begin to attach itself  to the lining of the uterus. Pregnancy begins when this  happens.  It is true that conception is the same moment as  fertilization. 36 hours for the ovaries to release the mature eggs. However the egg can only survive up to 24 hours without fertilization via sperm. Sperm can survive up to 5 days in body to search for the unfertilized egg.
After 3-10 days of the bird sitting on the egg, take the egg to a strong light and if it has redish vines in it, then it is fertile. A turkey egg isn't fertilized when the tom mates the female. The hen can hold the sperm up to 2 weeks. The egg is fertilized right before the shell becomes hard. The egg is la … in and is incubated for 28 days after the clutch is made. The chick hatches..
Turkeys have wingspans of 1.5–1.8 meters (almost 6 feet) and male turkeys have a distinctive fleshy appendage that hangs from the beak, called a snood. The usual lifespan for a turkey is 10 years, and pure breed turkeys take approximately 4-5 months to grow to full size. The hen turkeys take 16 weeks to mature completely, and average 3.6 kg (8 lb) to 7.2 kg (16 lbs) in weight. The tom turkey takes approximately 19 weeks to mature and weighs between 7.2 kg (16 lbs) and 10.8 kg (24 lbs). Larger tom turkeys may weigh up to 18.1 kg (40 lbs), but take a few more weeks to mature. A breeder tom turkey can generate up to 1,500 poults in a hen’s six-month laying cycle.
A female and a male well you know get together and then the egg cell inside the female was fertilized by the sperm cell inside the male.That's how a turkey egg gets fertilized. It doesn't always require both a male and a female to fertilize an egg. Sometimes a female can fertalize it on their own, this I can't explain. A turkey egg isn't fertilized when the tom mates the female. The hen can hold the sperm up to 2 weeks. The egg is fertilized right before the shell becomes hard. The egg is la … in and is incubated for 28 days after the clutch is made. The chick hatches..
Sperm can remain alive in these glands and fertilize eggs for up to 3 weeks. A hen will have maximum fertility for only about 3 to 4 days after one mating. For this reason, the male-to-female ratio in a flock must be enough to ensure mating of every hen every 3 days or so. Sperm do not break through the eggshell. Instead they travel up the oviduct to the infundibulum to join with the egg yolk.
And of course, breeding turkeys isn't complete without a nest where the hens can safely lay their eggs. Usually, community nests that should at least measure .5 meters deep and .5 meters in width would be enough to accommodate five hens. You don't want your turkeys to be laying unfertilized eggs so as your turkeys reach sexual maturity, start with the mating process as soon as possible. Success in breeding turkeys depends a lot on the mating of the turkeys and on the quality of the eggs produced.
It will then take approx. 36 hours for the ovaries to release the mature eggs. However the egg can only survive up to 24 hours without fertilization via sperm. Sperm can survive up to 5 days in body to search for the unfertilized egg.