Irish name. In Irish, the name Kristen means-christ-bearer. Other origins for the name Kristen include-Irish, English.The name Kristen is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-christ-bearer. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-English. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special! 
Kristen /kris-ten/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KRISS-ten. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Kristen is  follower of Christ . Variant of Christine; combined form of Kirsten and Kristina. See also Christen and Kirsten. Kristen is a very popular first name for women (#194 out of 4276, Top 5%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#80502 out of 150436, Top 54%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Kristen for girls.
Biblical context. The Biblical baby name Christian is Greek in origin and it's meaning is followers of the Christ, the anointed one. Christian is pronounced khris-tee-an. Christian was the name given by the Greeks or Romans to the followers of Jesus Christ. The term Christian was first used at Antioch.
What does Kristen mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kristen is of Danish, English and German origin. The meaning of Kristen is follower of Christ. Kristen is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kris-ten. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 814 in baby name popularity for girls with 338 occurrences. It ranked 7822 in popular baby names for boys with 10 occurrences.
Kristin /kri-stin/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin and French derivation, and the meaning of the name Kristin is follower of Christ. Kristin is an alternate spelling of Christina (Latin). Kristin is also a variation of Christine (French, Latin). 
Incoming search terms: biblical meaning of name kristen, acrostic poem of kristen, biblical meaning of the name kristen, hebrew meaning for kristen, hebrew meaning of kristen. Meaning of KRISTEN name, name definition, origin of KRISTEN name, Popularity of name, analysis, gender of KRISTEN, Acrostic Poem, other details;
The name Kristen is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Kristen is: Follower of Christ. American Meaning: The name Kristen is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kristen is: Follower of Christ. English Meaning: The name Kristen is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kristen is: Christina, and Christiana. Follower of Christ.
In English the meaning of the name Kristin is: Christina, and Christiana. Follower of Christ. American Meaning: The name Kristin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kristin is: Christina, and Christiana. Follower of Christ. Greek Meaning: The name Kristin is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kristin is: The anointed. SoulUrge Number: 9. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to serve humanity and to give to others by sharing money, knowledge and experience, or creative and artistic ability.
It is a name in regular usage in French, English, German, Scandinavian, Dutch and Slavic cultures, and it is often associated with the meaning follower of Christ.. Other ways to say Christine are Christina, Kristina, Kristine, Kristen, Kirsten, Hristina, Cristina (most used in Spain and Latin American countries), etc. 