Etymology. The word orchid is derived from the Greek word orchis, meaning testicle.. Ancient Greeks thought they could control the sex of an unborn child by eating different types of orchid roots. Orchids are the new It Flower, at least according to Affluent Magazine.. A quick Internet search will also list many florists offering orchids. You may want to consider the varied meanings this exotic flower conveys before purchasing it.
So, what all things do orchids represent? If you are an orchid lover, you'll be glad to learn that these exotic flowers are a symbol of love, beauty, and innocence in most cultures around the world. Here's more on the symbolism of the orchid flower ... The word 'orchid' is derived from the Greek word orchis which means testicles, and the name originates from the shape of the root tubers of the plant. It is due to this reason that orchids have been associated with sexuality in many cultures. Because of their symmetry, and the straight lines on their petals, orchids represent beauty in symmetry, and are considered epitomes of rare beauty. In Victorian England, these lovely flowers were likened to a beautiful woman.
Orchid Symbolism in the West. The flower symbolism associated with the orchid is love, beauty, refinement, many children, thoughtfulness and mature charm. Orchids have become a major market throughout the world. Buyers now bid hundreds of dollars on new hybrids or improved ones.
Today, the meanings of orchids are generally regarded as symbolic of rare and delicate beauty. The shape of orchids has been mentioned as geometric in comparison to the curvier forms of other flowers. The straight lines that run through these flowers have led them to be a symbol of perfection and beauty. Orchids are a long-lasting and particularly elegant type of flower, making them the perfect gift for many occasions. Their graceful appearance draws immediate attention, and their reputation as an exotic and unusual flower evokes a sense of refinement and innocence.
Saturday, February 1st 2014. | Flower Meanings, Orchid. Here is some information about black Orchid flower meaning and symbolism with some pictures. If you wish to create an environment of mystery, it is best to buy black orchid flowers. 
Best Answer: Orchid Love, Beauty, Chinese symbol for many children Orchid: A symbol of perfection. The spots on an orchid sometimes represent the blood of Christ. Pink orchids signifies pure affection, the well-liked Cattalya orchids stand for mature charm and often used for the occasion Mother’s day. In China Orchids signify sophistication and the purity of the childre
Here are some interesting facts about the symbolism of the orchid flower. In ancient Japan, it was believed that a warrior finding an orchid was a symbol of his bravery. The Aztecs made a potion using chocolate and extracts from the vanilla orchid, and used to drink this to enhance their power and physical strength. Because of their symmetry, and the straight lines on their petals, orchids represent beauty in symmetry, and are considered epitomes of rare beauty. In Victorian England, these lovely flowers were likened to a beautiful woman.
It was associated with a long history of lust, greed and wealth. Orchids are the most delicate and exotic flowers in the world and available in many varieties. The orchid flower meaning varies from country to country and different meanings are associated with thetypes of orchids. There are various meanings of orchids. Let us discuss some of them in the following paragraphs. The meaning of orchids, in other words, orchids stand for the symbol of love and affection. 
In ancient Greece it was believed that orchids were a symbol of fertility and virility. It was even believed that consuming the flower could determine the sex of an unborn child. If the father of an unborn child ate large, new orchid tubers then the woman would have a boy. Orchids are a long-lasting and particularly elegant type of flower, making them the perfect gift for many occasions. Their graceful appearance draws immediate attention, and their reputation as an exotic and unusual flower evokes a sense of refinement and innocence.