A West Penwith name for pixie is spriggan – this being the area of late survival of the Cornish language – where spriggan s are distinguished from pixies by their malevolent nature. Closely associated with tin mining in Cornwall are the subterranean ancestral knockers. Before the mid-19th century, pixies and fairies were taken seriously in much of Cornwall and Devon. Books devoted to the homely beliefs of the peasantry are filled with incidents of pixie manifestations. Some locales are named for the pixies associated with them
Cornish Pixie. Cornish Pixies are small, electric-blue creatures with a love of troublemaking. In the first Defence Against the Dark Arts class of Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, Professor Lockhart lets loose a cage of the creatures and leaves the class to deal with them. Electric blue with pointed faces and shrill voices, Cornish Pixies may only be eight inches high but they can cause a great deal of damage. They are mischievous creatures that delight in cruel jokes and causing trouble..
The appearance of the Devon Rex is far from ordinary, given their long skinny necks, oddly shaped heads, ridiculously big ears, and coat that can range from wildly curly to a soft suedelike down. They really are 100% feline, even if they seem to be 99% personality and 1% cat. Colors include a wide array of solid, shaded, smoke, tabby, bi-color, and pointed patterns. When selecting your Devon Rex kitten or cat, it is important you take the time to properly interview and get to know a breeder, as this will be to your advantage when looking for a Devon Rex to join your family.
In 1992, Gilderoy Lockhart brought a group of freshly caught Cornish pixies to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry during his tenure as Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor. Claiming that they were devilishly tricky creatures, he thought they would be perfect for a practical lecture on Defence. A Pixie is a small, bright blue mischief-maker, and loves tricks and practical jokes.
Pixies (Also Known As: Cornish Pixies) are a type of creature in the Wizarding World. They are light Turquoise colour and are very annoying. Pixies have 2 large pointy ears fixed to the sides of their heads and 2 antennas on top of their heads. Pixies locked up in a cage. 
Related: pixie ornaments look and learn magazines vintage pixie cornish piskie pixie piskie lucky pixie lucky cornish pixie joan the wad dartmoor pixie cornish piskey. Great. You're now following cornish pixie in your eBay feed.
The queen of the Cornish pixies is said to be Joan the Wad (torch), and she is considered to be good luck or bring good luck. In Devon, pixies are said to be invisibly small, and harmless or friendly to man.. In some of the legends and historical accounts they are presented as having near-human stature. Before the mid-19th century, pixies and fairies were taken seriously in much of Cornwall and Devon. Books devoted to the homely beliefs of the peasantry are filled with incidents of pixie manifestations. Some locales are named for the pixies associated with them
The pixies were electric blue and about eight inches high, with pointed faces and voices so shrill it was like listening to a lot of budgies arguing. —Description of Cornish Pixies. A Pixie is a small, bright blue mischief-maker, and loves tricks and practical jokes. It is able to fly, and enjoys lifting people up by their ears and depositing them on the tops of trees and buildings, showing incredible strength for creatures of their size