the difference between the renaissance and the middle ages is that the middle ages was a time of survival and religious belives. During the middle ages people still believed i … n god. Also, there were many raids, and travel was not safe. People focused on getting enough food and survivng in the harsh way of life. No, the Renaissance began during the Late Middle Ages, and the times overlapped to a degree. Various historians date the end of the Middle Ages in the 15th or even early 16th … century. They usually date the beginning of the Renaissance in the 14th century.
It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy. It is generally known that Renaissance matured in Northen Europe later, in 16th century. How is the Renaissance a bridge? I have to do an essay and the prompt is How is the Renaissance considered a bridge from the middle ages to the modern world?.
The renaissance – wikipedia, the free encyclopedia, The renaissance is a period from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the middle ages and modern history. it started as a cultural movement in. 
The Renaissance was a cultural movement involving a renewal of learning, development of infrastructure, and a gradual reform in education. The Renaissance may be considered as a sort of a bridge between the Middle Ages and the Modern Age. The Renaissance is best known for its art as this was the age of geniuses as Leonardo da Vinci, Petrarch, Dante, and Michelangelo. The Renaissance was the period between the 14th and the 16th centuries. 2.The printing press was used in the Renaissance Age whereas parchment was used in the Middle Ages. 3.The Renaissance Age portrayed humanism in art while Gothic art was prevalent
The Renaissance (UK /rɨˈneɪsəns/ , US /ˈrɛnɨsɑːns/) is a period in Europe, from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. For Michelet, the Renaissance was more a development in science than in art and culture. He asserted that it spanned the period from Columbus to Copernicus to Galileo; that is, from the end of the 15th century to the middle of the 17th century.
Renaissance Social Hierarchy. The Renaissance was a period between the 14 th and 15 th century and was considered as a bridge between the middle ages and the modern history. This time was started as a cultural movement in Italy, especially in Florence in the late medieval period and then spread later in other parts of Europe as well. 
the difference between the renaissance and the middle ages is that the middle ages was a time of survival and religious belives. During the middle ages people still believed i … n god. Also, there were many raids, and travel was not safe. People focused on getting enough food and survivng in the harsh way of life. The period of time after the Middle Ages is known as The European Renaissance and is called a time of rebirth and action because new developments began to take place in most … areas of culture and society.
Renaissance vs Middle Ages. “Renaissance” literally means “awakening” or “rebirth.” It was a European cultural movement between the 14th and the 16th centuries. The Middle Ages was a period from the 5th to 16th centuries. The Renaissance was the period between the 14th and the 16th centuries. 2.The printing press was used in the Renaissance Age whereas parchment was used in the Middle Ages. 3.The Renaissance Age portrayed humanism in art while Gothic art was prevalent
Renaissance Facts. The Renaissance is a period from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and Modern history. It started as a cultural movement in Italy in the Late Medieval period and later spread to the rest of Europe. See the fact file below for more information about the Renaissance period. Remove these ads. 1  The Renaissance occurred from the early 14th century to the late 16th century.
Summary: 1.The Middle Ages was a period from the 5th to 16th centuries. The Renaissance was the period between the 14th and the 16th centuries. 2.The printing press was used in the Renaissance Age whereas parchment was used in the Middle Ages. 3.The Renaissance Age portrayed humanism in art while Gothic art was prevalent in the Middle Ages.