Brain tumors can be grouped by the type of cell involved (such as meningioma, astrocytoma, lymphoma, etc.) or by the location in the brain. Metastasized cells may grow in one or several areas of the brain. Brain tumors account for one in every 100 cancers diagnosed annually in the United States. Most malignant brain tumors and brain cancers have spread from other tumors in the body to the skull, including cancers of the breast and lung, malignant melanoma and blood cell cancers (such as leukemia and lymphoma).
Brain cancers can arise from primary brain cells, the cells that form other brain components (for example, membranes, blood vessels), or from the growth of cancer cells that develop in other organs and that have spread to the brain by the bloodstream (metastatic or secondary brain cancer). 
Brain tumors that begin in the brain may spread to other parts of the brain and spinal cord, but they rarely spread to other parts of the body. Treatment of primary brain and spinal cord tumors is based on the following: 1  The type of cell in which the tumor began. 2  Where the tumor formed in the brain or spinal cord. 
The brain is made up of many different types of cells. 1  Some brain cancers occur when one type of cell transforms from its normal characteristics. 2  Once transformed, the cells grow and multiply in abnormal ways. 3  As these abnormal cells grow, they become a mass, or tumor. Metastatic brain tumors are made of cancerous cells from a tumor elsewhere in the body. The cells spread to the brain from another tumor in a process called metastasis. This is the most common type of brain tumor.
1 Some brain cancers occur when one type of cell transforms from its normal characteristics. 2  Once transformed, the cells grow and multiply in abnormal ways. 3  As these abnormal cells grow, they become a mass, or tumor. 4  The brain tumors that result are called primary brain tumors because they originate in the brain. Metastatic brain tumors are made of cancerous cells from a tumor elsewhere in the body. The cells spread to the brain from another tumor in a process called metastasis. This is the most common type of brain tumor.
The cells have irregular shapes with fingers that can spread into the brain. Glioma is a type of tumor that occurs in the brain and spinal cord. Gliomas begin in the gluey supportive cells (glial cells) that surround nerve cells and help them function. Three types of glial cells can produce tumors. 
Types of brain cancer. Primary brain tumors are tumors that form from cells within the brain. The tumors are categorized by the type of cell in which it first develops. There are over 120 different types of brain tumors (National Brain Tumor Society). The most common primary brain tumors are called gliomas, which originate in the glial (supportive) tissue. About one third of all primary brain tumors and other nervous system tumors form from glial cells
Primary brain tumors are classified by the type of tissue in which they arise. The most common brain tumors are gliomas, which begin in the glial (supportive) tissue. There are several types of gliomas, including the following: 1  Astrocytomas arise from small, star-shaped cells called astrocytes. 
Brain tumors are abnormal growths of cells in the brain. 1  Although such growths are popularly called brain tumors, not all brain tumors are cancer. 2  Cancer is a term reserved for malignant tumors. 3  Malignant tumors can grow and spread aggressively, overpowering healthy cells by taking their space, blood, and nutrients. Metastatic brain tumors are made of cancerous cells from a tumor elsewhere in the body. The cells spread to the brain from another tumor in a process called metastasis. This is the most common type of brain tumor.