Made from cholesterol, pregnenolone is a natural steroid hormone produced primarily in the adrenal glands, but in smaller amounts by many other organs and tissues of the human body, including liver, brain, skin, gonads, and even the retina of the eye. Your adrenal glands are responsible for manufacturing DHEA. Because of the hormone's role as a precursor, pregnenolone has the unique ability to bring all of the other hormones into balance. It stimulates production of those other hormones, but only when they are needed. Taking pregnenolone therefore normalizes and rejuvenates the entire adrenal system.
Pregnenolone has been called the grandmother of all steroid hormones.. The body manufactures it from cholesterol, and then uses it to make testosterone, cortisone, progesterone, estrogen, DHEA, androstenedione, aldosterone, and all other hormones in the steroid family. One reason given for using pregnenolone is that the level of many of these hormones declines with age.
Pregnenolone. Pregnenolone is a chemical found in the brain that helps make many other chemicals in the body. It is used for sleeping problems, tension and stress, depression, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), to enhance the memory and help stop memory loss in conditions like Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's. 
Pregnenolone—The Basics. Pregnenolone, like DHEA, is a steroidal hormone manufactured in the body. Pregnenolone is a precursor hormone synthesized from cholesterol, principally in the adrenal glands, but also in the liver, skin, brain, testicles, ovaries, and retina of the eyes. By BioHealth Diagnostics Pregnenolone—The Basics Pregnenolone, like DHEA, is a steroidal hormone manufactured in the body. Pregnenolone is a precursor hormone synthesized from cholesterol, principally in the adrenal glands, but also in the liver, skin, brain, testicles, ovaries, and retina of the eyes.
Pregnenolone is a chemical that is found in our bodies. It can also be made in a laboratory. People use it for medicine. Pregnenolone is used for fatigue and increasing energy; Alzheimer ’s disease and enhancing memory; trauma and injuries; as well as stress and improving immunity. It is also is used for skin disorders including psoriasis and scleroderma
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Pregnenolone is a steroidal hormone manufactured primarily in your adrenal glands from its precursor, cholesterol, and has a number of beneficial effects, including enhancing your memory and reducing stress-induced fatigue. By BioHealth Diagnostics Pregnenolone—The Basics Pregnenolone, like DHEA, is a steroidal hormone manufactured in the body. Pregnenolone is a precursor hormone synthesized from cholesterol, principally in the adrenal glands, but also in the liver, skin, brain, testicles, ovaries, and retina of the eyes.
(Click Benefits of Pregnenolone for more information on what it is used for, including additional uses of the supplement.). Pregnenolone is a hormone that is used by the body to make all other steroid hormones in the body, including (but not limited to) progesterone, cortisol, aldosterone, testosterone, and estrogen. The body makes it using cholesterol. In addition to its use as a precursor for steroid hormones, pregnenolone can block the effects of GABA (gamma-aminobutyric acid), a brain chemical that can slow down or stop certain nerve signals in the brain.