Crab sticks-imitation crab meat made from surimi. Sugiyo Kaori-bako. Crab sticks (imitation crab meat, seafood sticks, krab) are a form of kamaboko, a processed seafood made of finely pulverized white fish flesh (surimi), shaped and cured to resemble leg meat of snow crab or Japanese spider crab. Contents. Sugiyo Co., Ltd. (スギヨ, Sugiyo) of Japan first produced and patented imitation crab meat in 1973, as Kanikama. This was a flake type. In 1974, Osaki Suisan Co., Ltd., of Japan first produced and patented imitation crab sticks.
Imitation crab is a seafood product made from surimi, or Asian fish paste, and is often known as Krab in the United States. Krab is sold in chunks or sticks and is usually found in the fresh seafood section of most grocery stores. It can be used in a variety of dishes, from salads and stir-fries to dips and appetizers. Pollock is most often the main fish ingredient used in preparing imitation crab meat. The fish is first skinned and boned and then minced, or cut into very small pieces. The minced pollock and/or other fish are rinsed before being formed into the fish paste known as surimi
Fake crab meat is not as nutritious as real fish and seafood. Fake crab meat, also called imitation crab, does not contain any crab meat at all. Its Japanese name, surimi, actually means ground meat. Fake crab meat is made of various types of fish ground together into a paste. Imitation crab can be shaped to resemble crab legs or shrimps and is often used in Japanese fish salads and sushi because of its cheaper cost. 
Report Abuse. The imitation crab meat is called surimi and is made from firm white fish, sugar, seasonings, etc. A lot of people who are allergic to shellfish can still eat it because it does not contain any actual crab. It is a lot cheaper than the real thing. Surimi is commonly used in Japan to make a type of fish ball or cake called kamaboko. In 1975, a method for processing imitation crabmeat from surimi was invented in Japan, and in 1983, American companies started production.
The surimi used in the manufacture of imitation crab meat is most commonly processed from the Alaska pollock or walleye pollock. To a lesser extent, the New Zealand hoki is also used. These fish are particularly useful because they are abundant, have little flavor, and are inexpensive to process. Surimi is commonly used in Japan to make a type of fish ball or cake called kamaboko. In 1975, a method for processing imitation crabmeat from surimi was invented in Japan, and in 1983, American companies started production.
Imitation crab meat is a seafood product made by blending processed fish, known as surimi, with various texturizing ingredients, flavorants, and colorants. The coloring for imitation crab meat is typically made using water insoluble compounds like carmine, caramel, paprika, and annato extract. By combining these and other ingredients, various shades of red, orange, and pink can be obtained. Before using the colorants, they are mixed in a surimi paste.
Surimi is made of different kinds of fish, which are ground together into a paste. According to SF Gate, manufacturers add starch, artificial flavors, sodium and sometimes MSG. Because starch is often made from wheat, imitation crab meat is not gluten free. The red and white crab stick -- often referred to as imitation crab -- does indeed come from the sea. In Japanese, crab stick is called  surimi , which actually means ground meat.. It's kind of the ocean's version of the hot dog, if you need an analogy.
Imitation crab is formed to look like real crab legs. Imitation crab is made with a type of fish called surimi. Manufacturers add fillers, flavoring and color to surimi to mimic the taste, texture and color of real crab legs. Imitation crab meat is a versatile ingredient that costs far less than the real thing. The meat can be used in many dishes and contains certain nutrients that are essential in a healthy diet.
The base ingredient of imitation crab is mild-flavored white fish. Most U.S.-made products use pollock or hake, caught off the coast of Alaska. The fish is first pressed to remove excess moisture; then it's minced, cooked, flavored and extruded into its final shape. 