(2). So, if you are concerned with carrying extra weight, you should know how to get your body to have frequent healthy bowel movements (BMs). Three years ago I talked about the importance of regular bowel movements and how having them (or not) can effect our health for better or for worse. Poop twice a day! People who don’t have healthy bowel movements may very likely be feeling toxic, malnourished, sick and exhausted. But what some people don’t realize is that eating clean should not only give you high energy, but it should also give you 2-3 bowel movements per day.
Here’s what you can do to promote regular bowel movements: 1  Eat more fiber. “ 2 Constipation is almost always due to inadequate fiber and liquid,” Magun says. 3  Fiber can be found in beans, fresh fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. 4  Strive for 20 to 35 grams of fiber a day. Prepping for a Colonoscopy. Bowel health is an important topic, as changes in bowel movements can be a sign of a health problem. But before you begin to worry about how “normal” you are, you have to know what a regular bowel movement is for you.
Re: weight loss and bowel movement. No, not stool softener: the problem is SMALL fecal volume not it's hardness. WHat is needed is soluble fiber with low caloric impact that absorbs lots of water and swells to a volume that stimulates intestinal peristalsis. Winnie, Look into a daily pea or bean soup. Re: weight loss and bowel movement. Interesting, I had the complete opposite reaction when I started eating healthier to lose weight. Since I began eating a lot more fruit, vegetables and whole grains, I became much more regular. __________________. Empower Yourself.
If you’re constipated for a year, you’ll probably be carrying around 72,000 calories of stored toxins in your body (that should have been made into poop). This may make you 20 lbs. heavier in just one year, based on 1 pound of weight gain being equivalent to 3500 calories of excess. This is one of the reasons why it’s so important to get your bowel movements on track if you are trying to lose weight, and for total body health reasons. Poop twice a day! People who don’t have healthy bowel movements may very likely be feeling toxic, malnourished, sick and exhausted. But what some people don’t realize is that eating clean should not only give you high energy, but it should also give you 2-3 bowel movements per day.
A decrease in body weight after having a bowel movement does not come from a loss of body fat in stools. Body fat loss comes from creating a calorie deficit, which forces your body to burn stored fat for energy. A small amount of certain forms of fat, such as cholesterol, is normal in your feces. The fat in stools does not come from a loss of body fat, but rather from dietary fat intake that is not properly absorbed. Malabsorption of dietary fats may be caused by digestive conditions, such as celiac disease and Crohn's disease, pancreatitis, liver disease or cystic fibrosis.
This is why you can lose weight rapidly if you have diarrhea: you're losing water. It's the same as losing weight by sweating a lot. You're not losing fat, just necessary water and the necessary vitamins and minerals that are stored in the water (as well as the necessary bacteria that helps digest your food). 
If you have more water or more fecal matter in your body, the scale will reflect a higher number. According to Encyclopedia Britannica, humans normally excrete about 3 to 8 ounces of fecal matter per day. If you have an abnormally large bowel movement and weigh yourself after, you'll be lighter. But, this weight change did not come from a loss of body fat in your bowel movement. The fat in stools does not come from a loss of body fat, but rather from dietary fat intake that is not properly absorbed. Malabsorption of dietary fats may be caused by digestive conditions, such as celiac disease and Crohn's disease, pancreatitis, liver disease or cystic fibrosis.
Weight Loss and Calories. Your caloric intake and expenditure, rather than your bowel movements, are tied to healthy weight loss. Throughout the day, you consume calories in the form of food and drinks, which your body uses for energy. At the same time, your body burns calories at various rates, depending on the activities you perform. Photo Credit AVAVA/iStock/Getty Images. Hopping on the bathroom scale to weigh yourself before and after you have a bowel movement might be tempting, but unless your scale is highly accurate, you won't likely notice a difference in your body weight.
When stools are too loose, you can have diarrhea. When they are too hard and dry, you can be constipated. Symptoms of constipation include not having a bowel movement for more than three days and having hard, dry stools that are painful or difficult to pass. Prepping for a Colonoscopy. Bowel health is an important topic, as changes in bowel movements can be a sign of a health problem. But before you begin to worry about how “normal” you are, you have to know what a regular bowel movement is for you.