Analogy phonics is a particular type of analytic phonics in which the teacher has students analyze phonic elements according to the phonograms in the word. A phonogram, known in linguistics as a rime, is composed of the vowel and all the sounds that follow it in the syllable. The goal of either a blended phonics or synthetic phonics instructional program is that students identify the sound-symbol correspondences and blend their phonemes automatically. Since 2005, synthetic phonics has become the accepted method of teaching reading (by phonics instruction) in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Full Definition of PHONICS. 1. : the science of sound: acoustics. 2. : a method of teaching beginners to read and pronounce words by learning the phonetic value of letters, letter groups, and especially syllables. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of PHONICS for Kids. : a method of teaching beginners to read and pronounce words by learning the usual sound of letters, letter groups, and
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Phonetics (pronounced /fəˈnɛtɪks/ , from the Greek: φωνή, phōnē, 'sound, voice') is a branch of linguistics that comprises the study of the sounds of human speech, or—in the case of sign languages —the equivalent aspects of sign. In contrast to phonetics, phonology is the study of how sounds and gestures pattern in and across languages, relating such concerns with other levels and aspects of language.
Medical Definition of PHONIC. 1. : of, relating to, or producing sound. 2. a: of or relating to the sounds of speech b: of or relating to phonics. Full Definition of PHONIC. 1. : of, relating to, or producing sound: acoustic. 2. a: of or relating to the sounds of speech b: of or relating to phonics. — pho·ni·cal·ly \-ni-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See phonic defined for English-language learners. See phonic defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
The goal of phonics is to enable beginning readers to decode new written words by sounding them out, or in phonics terms, blending the sound-spelling patterns. The goal of either a blended phonics or synthetic phonics instructional program is that students identify the sound-symbol correspondences and blend their phonemes automatically. Since 2005, synthetic phonics has become the accepted method of teaching reading (by phonics instruction) in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Definition: The branch of linguistics that deals with the sounds of speech and their production, combination, description, and representation by written symbols. Adjective: phonetic. A linguist who specializes in phonetics is known as a phonetician. 
1 Acoustic phonetics: the study of the physical transmission of speech sounds from the speaker to the listener. In contrast to phonetics, phonology is the study of how sounds and gestures pattern in and across languages, relating such concerns with other levels and aspects of language.
This chart contains all the sounds (phonemes) used in the English language. For each sound, it gives: The symbol from the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), as used in phonetic transcriptions in modern dictionaries for English learners — that is, in A. C. Gimson’s phonemic system with a few additional symbols. The chart represents British and American phonemes with one symbol.
Phonics is a method for teaching reading and writing of the English language by developing learners' phonemic awareness —the ability to hear, identify, and manipulate phonemes —in order to teach the correspondence between these sounds and the spelling patterns (graphemes) that represent them. The goal of either a blended phonics or synthetic phonics instructional program is that students identify the sound-symbol correspondences and blend their phonemes automatically. Since 2005, synthetic phonics has become the accepted method of teaching reading (by phonics instruction) in the United Kingdom and Australia.