We can also think of drag as aerodynamic resistance to the motion of the object through the fluid. This source of drag depends on the shape of the aircraft and is called form drag. As air flows around a body, the local velocity and pressure are changed. Drag is the aerodynamic force that opposes an aircraft's motion through the air. Drag is generated by every part of the airplane (even the engines!
The two primary forces in aerodynamics are lift and drag. Lift refers to forces perpendicular to the surface of an object (such as an airplane wing) that is traveling through the air. Noun. 1. aerodynamics-the branch of mechanics that deals with the motion of gases (especially air) and their effects on bodies in the flow. aeromechanics. mechanics-the branch of physics concerned with the motion of bodies in a frame of reference. Translations. [ˈɛərəʊdaɪˈnaemɪks] ˈɛərəʊdaɪˈnæmɪks → n aerodinamica. aerodinámica fsing
Medical Definition of AERODYNAMICS. : a branch of dynamics that deals with the motion of air and other gaseous fluids and with the forces acting on bodies in motion relative to such fluids. — aero·dy·nam·ic \-ik\ also aero·dy·nam·i·cal \-i-kəl\ adjective. — aero·dy·nam·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. — aero·dy·nam·i·cist \-ˈnam-ə-səst\ noun.
Aerodynamics is a sub-field of fluid dynamics and gas dynamics, and many aspects of aerodynamics theory are common to these fields. The term aerodynamics is often used synonymously with gas dynamics, with the difference being that gas dynamics applies to the study of the motion of all gases, not limited to air. In aerodynamics, hypersonic speeds are speeds that are highly supersonic. In the 1970s, the term generally came to refer to speeds of Mach 5 (5 times the speed of sound) and above. The hypersonic regime is a subset of the supersonic regime.
Welcome to the Beginner's Guide to Aerodynamics What is aerodynamics? The word comes from two Greek words: aerios, concerning the air, and dynamis, which means force. Aerodynamics is the study of forces and the resulting motion of objects through the air. Judging from the story of Daedalus and Icarus, humans have been interested in aerodynamics and flying for thousands of years, although flying in a heavier-than-air machine has been possible only in the last hundred years. Because aerodynamics involves both the motion of the object and the reaction of the air, there are several pages devoted to basic gas properties and how those properties change through the atmosphere. This site was created at NASA Glenn as part of the Learning Technologies Project (LTP).
Full Definition of AERODYNAMICS. : a branch of dynamics that deals with the motion of air and other gaseous fluids and with the forces acting on bodies in motion relative to such fluids. — aero·dy·nam·ic \-ik\ also aero·dy·nam·i·cal \-i-kəl\ adjective. — aero·dy·nam·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. — aero·dy·nam·i·cist \-ˈnam-ə-səst\ noun.
Aerodynamics comes into play in the study of flight and the science of building and operating an aircraft, which is called aeronautics. Aeronautical engineers use the fundamentals of aerodynamics to design aircraft that fly through the Earth's atmosphere. When the airplane is in level flight at a constant speed, the force of the thrust is just enough to counteract the aerodynamic drag. Moving air can also generate forces in a different direction from the flow. The force that keeps an airplane from falling is called lift. Lift is generated by an aircraft wing.
Aerodynamics, from Greek ἀήρ aer (air) + δυναμική (dynamics), is a branch of Fluid dynamics concerned with studying the motion of air, particularly when it interacts with a solid object, such as an airplane wing. In aerodynamics, hypersonic speeds are speeds that are highly supersonic. In the 1970s, the term generally came to refer to speeds of Mach 5 (5 times the speed of sound) and above. The hypersonic regime is a subset of the supersonic regime.
Aerodynamics is the study of how gases interact with moving bodies. Because the gas that we encounter most is air, aerodynamics is primarily concerned with the forces of drag and lift, which are caused by air passing over and around solid bodies. When the airplane is in level flight at a constant speed, the force of the thrust is just enough to counteract the aerodynamic drag. Moving air can also generate forces in a different direction from the flow. The force that keeps an airplane from falling is called lift. Lift is generated by an aircraft wing.
aerodynamics. noun plural but singular or plural in construction aero·dy·nam·ics \-ˈna-miks\. Tweet. : a science that studies the movement of air and the way that objects (such as airplanes or cars) move through air. : the qualities of an object that affect how easily it is able to move through the air. : a branch of dynamics that deals with the motion of air and other gaseous fluids and with the forces acting on bodies in motion relative to such fluids. — aero·dy·nam·ic \-ik\ also aero·dy·nam·i·cal \-i-kəl\ adjective. — aero·dy·nam·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. — aero·dy·nam·i·cist \-ˈnam-ə-səst\ noun.