The executive director is a leadership role for an organization and often fulfills a motivational role in addition to office-based work. Executive directors motivate and mentor members, volunteers, and staff, and may chair meetings. The executive director leads the organization and develops its organizational culture. Confusion can arise because the words executive and director occur both in this title and in titles of various members of some organizations' boards of directors. The precise meanings of these terms are discussed in the board of directors article.
The Executive Director performs some or all of the following: Leadership. 1  Participate with the Board of Directors in developing a vision and strategic plan to guide the organization. 2  Identify, assess, and inform the Board of Directors of internal and external issues that affect the organization. 
The Principle Responsibilities of an NGO Executive Director By Joanna Moshman In an NGO, the executive director is crucial in terms of leadership and management and holds many responsibilities that are essential in maintaining the sustainability of the organization. 
The board of directors, including the general manager or CEO (chief executive officer), has very defined roles and responsibilities within the business organization. 4) Govern the organization and the relationship with the CEO. Another responsibility of the board is to develop a governance system. The governance system involves how the board interacts with the general manager or CEO. Periodically the board interacts with the CEO during meetings of the board of directors.
The Job Description of a Hospice Executive Director. ... Duties and Responsibilities of an Executive Director; Nurse Executive Job Description; ehow.com. About... Depending on the size of the organization, the executive director may also be responsible for day-to-day operations management. In larger organizations, that task is passed on to a chief operating officer, who is supervised by the executive director.
An executive director is a chief executive officer (CEO) or managing director of an organization, company, or corporation. The title is widely used in North American non-profit organizations, though many United States nonprofits have adopted the title president or CEO. Confusion can arise because the words executive and director occur both in this title and in titles of various members of some organizations' boards of directors. The precise meanings of these terms are discussed in the board of directors article.
No matter how big or small, all organizations need a leader. The executive director role encompasses a variety of activities, but the basic requirement is to achieve the strategic goals of the organization. Duties and responsibilities may differ from one organization to another. 1  Job Description for an Executive Director. Depending on the size of the organization, the executive director may also be responsible for day-to-day operations management. In larger organizations, that task is passed on to a chief operating officer, who is supervised by the executive director.
The smaller a nonprofit organization is, the more directly involved the director is likely to be in each departmental function. In the smallest nonprofits, for example, an executive director may handle all accounting duties and half of the fundraising duties, in addition to executive-level duties. Related Reading: The Role of an Executive Chairman. Management Role. Executive directors oversee the heads of each department in a nonprofit, including marketing, fundraising, program development, HR management and accounting.
The truth lies in the middle. The executive director has an important role in coordinating the program’s fundraising plan and also playing an important role in some fundraising efforts. Ultimately though, the board of directors is fully responsible for the organization’s finances. 
The Executive Director is the Chief Executive Officer of ____________. The Executive Director reports to the Board of Directors, and is responsible for the organization's consistent achievement of its mission and financial objectives.In program development and administration, the Executive Director will: In communications, the Executive Director will: 1  See that the board is kept fully informed on the condition of the organization and all important factors influencing it. 2  Publicize the activities of the organization, its programs and goals.