As the wax hardens, the paraffin's natural emollient softens skin and the heat opens pores. When the cooled wax is pulled away from the skin, it also removes dead skin cells, leaving skin smoother [source: Barajas ]. Paraffin wax treatments are also beneficial to dry, cracked hands and feet.
Your hands/feet are dipped in a pot of melted paraffin wax, which is a liquid and then forms like a glove. Usually your hands or feet are massaged with oil or lotion before, and the wax glove combined with the heat allows the lotion to penetrate. It's very relaxing, and your skin will be baby smooth afterward.
It is a warm paraffin wax is applied to the skin of your feet and hands. Usually the process starts with a massage of the hands or feet. then a heavy lotion is applied.
The Side Effects of Paraffin Wax. There are no major side effects to a standard paraffin treatment. Paraffin wax is applied to the face, hands, feet and body during spa treatments that are intended to moisturize and soften the skin. Paraffin wax is a soft wax made from petroleum byproducts and has been laboratory tested to be hygienically safe to use.
A paraffin wax dip or bath is a soothing treatment in which the feet are submerged in a warm mixture of paraffin, a petroleum-based wax, and mineral oil. This warming treatment soothes aching joints and improves circulation, and the combination of oil and wax softens rough skin.
Paraffin Wax for Hands and Feet. When paraffin wax baths are offered as a service at a spa or nail salon, the hands or feet are typically dipped into a tub of warm paraffin wax -- often two or three times -- to create a thick coating that will retain heat for several minutes.
The quick-heat paraffin bath is ideal for softening even rough skin on your hands, elbows and feet. The paraffin wax treatment will help moisturize the skin, leaving it soft, smooth and supple.
Paraffin wax not only forms a base for medical ointments, it can be used ‘as is’ for skin and joint treatments. Melted to a comfortable temperature, your foot or hand (or other parts of your body) are immersed in the warm wax and gently pulled out. You may be asked to dip your hand or foot in a few times.