Juneteenth, also known as Juneteenth Independence Day or Freedom Day, is a holiday that commemorates the announcement of the abolition of slavery in Texas in June 1865, and more generally the emancipation of African-American slaves throughout the Confederate South. 
The Slavery Abolition Act 1833 ended slavery in the British Empire on August 28, 1834. Emancipation Day is widely observed in the British West Indies during the first week of August. In many Caribbean countries the Emancipation Day celebration is a part of Carnival, as the Caribbean Carnival takes place at this time. 1 Jamaica: Emancipation day is part of a week long cultural celebration in Jamaica. 2  During this time Jamaicans also commemorate both their Independence day (August 6th, 1962) with festivals, parades, galas, et al.
Select another year-range: Emancipation Day is a holiday in Washington DC to mark the anniversary of the signing of the Compensated Emancipation Act, which president Abraham Lincoln signed on April 16, 1862. It is annually held on April 16. In some years, Emancipation Day may be the reason to extend the deadline for filing an income tax return (Tax Day). In 2007, the observance Emancipation Day in Washington DC had the effect of nationally extending the 2006 income tax filing deadline from April 16 to April 17.
August 1 or the nearest Saturday. Emancipation Day commemorates August 1, 1834, the date that England's Abolition of Slavery Bill took effect, ending slavery throughout the British Empire. As a result of the law, more than one million slaves were freed in the British colonies, including Canada. Since 1862, the town has held a picnic to commemorate both Emancipation Day and the U.S. abolition of slavery, which took effect on January 1, 1863. The picnic, attended by local groups and many visitors, has come to incorporate music, crafts, and black-history exhibits as well as food and games.
Juneteenth, celebrated on June 19, is the name given to emancipation day by African-Americans in Texas. On that day in 1865 Union Major-General Gordon Granger read General Orders, No.3 to the people of Galveston. It stated. For example, in Austin the Juneteenth celebration returned in 1976 after a 25 year hiatus. House Bill no.1016 passed in the 66th Legislature, Regular Session, declared June 19, Emancipation Day in Texas, a legal state holiday effective January 1, 1980.
Emancipation Day in Washington DC marks the anniversary of the signing of the Compensated Emancipation Act. On January 4, 2005, legislation was signed to make Emancipation Day an official public holiday in the District of Columbia. In some years, Emancipation Day may be the reason to extend the deadline for filing an income tax return (Tax Day). In 2007, the observance Emancipation Day in Washington DC had the effect of nationally extending the 2006 income tax filing deadline from April 16 to April 17.
Emancipation Day is celebrated in many former British colonies in the Caribbean and areas of the United States on various dates in observance of the emancipation of slaves of African descent. It is also observed in other areas in regard to the abolition of serfdom or other forms of servitude. 1 Jamaica: Emancipation day is part of a week long cultural celebration in Jamaica. 2  During this time Jamaicans also commemorate both their Independence day (August 6th, 1962) with festivals, parades, galas, et al.
1 Antigua celebrates carnival on and around 1st Monday of August. 2  Since 1834 Antigua and Barbuda have observed the end of slavery. 3  The first Monday and Tuesday in August was observed as a bank holiday so the populace can celebrate Emancipation Day. 1 Jamaica: Emancipation day is part of a week long cultural celebration in Jamaica. 2  During this time Jamaicans also commemorate both their Independence day (August 6th, 1962) with festivals, parades, galas, et al.
In the 1970's Juneteenth revived in some communities. For example, in Austin the Juneteenth celebration returned in 1976 after a 25 year hiatus. House Bill no.1016 passed in the 66th Legislature, Regular Session, declared June 19, Emancipation Day in Texas, a legal state holiday effective January 1, 1980. Since that time, the celebration of Juneteenth continues across the state of Texas with parades, picnics and dancing