Any kind of injury to the wrist joint can alter how the joint works. After a wrist injury, ligament damage may result in an unstable joint. Any time an injury changes the way the joint moves, even if the change is very subtle, the forces on the articular cartilage increase. It's just like a machine; if the mechanism is out of balance, it wears out faster.
1 Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 4  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5
Depends on the severity of the tear. It can be a month to 6 months to a year if it's completely severed. it will take 6 weeks with proper therapy Depends on the ligament a … nd whether or not blood supply to the damaged ligament was lost. If the blood supply was lost, the ligament will not repair itself and your only option is surgery. If blood supply remains, it may take up to 8 weeks to fully heal. It depends how the injury is because some people might have torn it worse and I think about 6 months it will recover by I have ligament damage in my lower spine, and they said it would heal in 2-3 months, and that was Christmas day...and it is stillbad. They now think it could be a yearbefore it heals properly.
Part of the recovery time may include physical therapy, stretching or exercise programs. A torn ligament can take anywhere from two weeks to several months to heal, depending on other factors of the injury like the person's age and where the injury occurred. Knee ligament injuries take the most time to heal. Woman wearing a splint for a torn ligament in her finger. 
- A grade 2 tear, which is moderate tearing of many collagen fibers in the ligament that results in lots of pain and probably will also cause bruising and/or inflammation, will heal in 2-6 weeks. - A grade 3 tear, which is the complete tearing of a ligament, will not ever heal without surgery. It depends how the injury is because some people might have torn it worse and I think about 6 months it will recover by I have ligament damage in my lower spine, and they said it would heal in 2-3 months, and that was Christmas day...and it is stillbad. They now think it could be a yearbefore it heals properly.
Treating a torn wrist ligament isn't something that can be done at home. Only sprains can be treated without the help of a doctor. Torn ligaments may require surgery to the bones or wrist ligament in order to decrease pain and restore function. A torn wrist ligament, unlike a sprain, can cause progressive joint problems if it isn't treated properly. Ad. The treatment used for a ligament tear in the wrist depends on the age of the injury. If your injury was diagnosed immediately and isn't too severe, you may simply be put in a cast for a few weeks to hold the limb immobile until it heals.
It will depend on how badly torn the ligament is. - A grade 1 tear, which is only slight tearing of a few collagen fibers in the ligament that results in a little pain and p … robably no bruising or inflammation, will heal in 1-3 weeks. It depends how the injury is because some people might have torn it worse and I think about 6 months it will recover by I have ligament damage in my lower spine, and they said it would heal in 2-3 months, and that was Christmas day...and it is stillbad. They now think it could be a yearbefore it heals properly.
If a torn wrist ligament isn't diagnosed for a much longer period, such as six months after the initial injury, a tendon graft may be needed to replace the damaged tissue. A piece of tendon will often be taken from the same wrist in order to perform this surgery. Ad. The treatment used for a ligament tear in the wrist depends on the age of the injury. If your injury was diagnosed immediately and isn't too severe, you may simply be put in a cast for a few weeks to hold the limb immobile until it heals.
Wrist injuries are common. If a wrist injury causes significant damage to the ligaments, it can result in serious problems in the wrist. Such an injury typically continues to cause problems unless corrected. This guide will help you understand. 1  how ligament injuries of the wrist occur. After a wrist injury, ligament damage may result in an unstable joint. Any time an injury changes the way the joint moves, even if the change is very subtle, the forces on the articular cartilage increase. It's just like a machine; if the mechanism is out of balance, it wears out faster.