It about 14 to 19 days from the first day of your period to your ovulation and then from 10 to 15 days to your next period. Not everyone is the same, as you know and not every women ovulates fourteen days from her period or has her period fourteen days from ovulation. If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle.
Ovulation takes place, on average, about two weeks before your period, though it can vary from 10-16 days before the onset of menstruation depending on the length of your luteal phase. During an “average” 28 day cycle, ovulation is usually expected to take place between cycle days 13-15. 
The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period. The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.
The Association estimates that ovulation occurs anywhere between 11-21 days after the first day of your last menstrual period (LMP), or 12-16 days from when you expect the next menstrual period to start. Order a Fertility Kit or Monitor. The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.
Every women is different and when you ovulate depends on how long your cycle is and if you are regular. But in general, if you have a 28 day cycle you would ovulate on or around day 14. To be safe, most trying to conceive guidelines will use day 10-20 as your fertile window. (Day 1 being the first day of your period). 
During my ovulation time, how many days am I really fertile? During your window of ovulation, an egg is only available to be fertilized for about 12-24 hours. But since sperm can live in the body for 3-5 days after sex, and the egg is available for one day, your most fertile time is considered to be about 5-7 days. The day of ovulation differs from woman to woman and can even be different from month to month for an individual woman. For a woman with a 28 day cycle, the window of ovulation is day 11 through day 21 of your cycle. Ovulation could occur on any one day during this window.
Best Answer: Typically you ovulate miway through your cycle. During a 28 day cycle you should ovulate on day 14. This can vary and be a little early or later. The key concept according to my OB/GYN is that the luteal phase is 14 days long (see below for further information). If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of
The time after you Ovulation is called the Luetal phase or LP and that is generally 10-16days. The time before ovulation can be 10days, 30 days, but the average is 14 days. I'm not 'average' as I O on day 20, but always start my period 14 days after that. If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle.
Your menstrual period begins about 14 days after you ovulate. If ovulation occurs on approximately day 14 of a woman’s cycle then your next period starts about 14 days later and the cycle length is 28 days. Ovulation happens when a mature egg is released from the ovary. It is then picked up by the fallopian tube and is available to be fertilized
A. By convention, the first day of your period is the first day of your menstrual cycle. Around day 7 several eggs start to develop in your ovaries. However, only one egg will predominate and be release when you ovulate. For the average menstrual cycle, which is 28-32 days ovulation occurs on day 14. 