Download article as a PDF. Civil rights are the rights of individuals to receive equal treatment (and to be free from unfair treatment or discrimination) in a number of settings -- including education, employment, housing, and more -- and based on certain legally-protected characteristics. 
The civil rights movement deeply affected American society. Among its most important achievements were two major civil rights laws passed by Congress. These laws ensured constitutional rights for African Americans and other minorities. It was only after years of highly publicized civil rights demonstrations, marches, and violence that American political leaders acted to enforce these rights. President Lyndon Johnson signs the historic Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Education and Civil Rights. Education played a very important part in post-1945 civil rights history. Much time and effort was spent on education – the belief being that in a democracy it was only right and fair that all people regardless of skin colour should have the right to a decent education. This issue of civil rights and education made international headlines with the affair that took place at Little Rock High School in 1957. But education was to remain at the forefront of civil rights even after this event.
Johnson's efforts did more for civil rights than any president since Abraham Lincoln. This is no where more evident than in Mississippi, where voter registration of the eligible black population increased from under 7 percent in 1965 to more than 70 percent in 1967. President Lyndon B. Johnson cajoled and collaborated with Congress 50 years ago until the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was passed and signed into law.
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The civil rights movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality. The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination; equal opportunity in employment, education, and housing; the right to vote; and equal access to public facilities. The Civil Rights Movement would become more than just a protest against segregation in the schools. In December of 1955 Rosa Parks, the secretary of the Alabama NAACP, was arrested in Montgomery, Alabama; she had refused to give up her seat on a city bus to a white man as required by city law.
Introduction. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, which ended segregation in public places and banned employment discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin, is considered one of the crowning legislative achievements of the civil rights movement. President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 with at least 75 pens, which he handed out to congressional supporters of the bill such as Hubert Humphrey and Everett Dirksen and to civil rights leaders such as Martin Luther King Jr. and Roy Wilkins.
The Civil rights act movement from 1945 to 1975 started early demands for equality. The Plessy vs. Ferguson case made it legal to segregate based on the separate but equal … clause.. It was only able to stay legal if while the blacks and whites were separate they were also equal. Successes and failures of the Civil war and Reconstruction in extending civil rights to African Americans included the right to vote being given to African Americans, but fail … ures included Jim Crow laws that attempted to remove such rights. + 3 others found this useful. Yandri Macias.