5 Av To Central Park W, 59 St To 110 St. Manhattan. Directions via Google Maps. Arguably one of the most famous parks in the world, Central Park is a manmade wonder. Not only is it the first public park built in America, but it is also one of the most frequently visited, with over 25 million guests per year.
Specialties. Central Park is the 843-acre masterpiece of landscape architecture designed in the 19th century by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux and designated New York City's first scenic landmark in 1974. Central Park is the 843-acre masterpiece of landscape architecture designed in the 19th century by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux and designated New York City's first scenic landmark ….
Central Park is the most visited urban park in the United States as well as one of the most filmed locations in the world. It is 2.5 miles (4 km) long between 59th Street (Central Park South) and 110th Street (Central Park North), and is 0.5 miles (0.8 km) wide between Fifth Avenue and Central Park West. Central Park also constitutes its own United States census tract, number 143.
Central Park. Located in Manhattan, Central Park is the nation's first major urban public space, attracting 25 million visitors every year. Covering 843 acres of land, this magnificent park was designated as a National Historic Landmark in 1963. 1 Visit the Central Park Zoo: providing amazing exhibits such as an indoor rain forest, a polar bear pool, and a snow leopard exhibit, the Central Park Zoo is the perfect spot to view the most beautiful animals from all over the world. 2  Open 365 days a year, the park is open from 10am to 4:30pm for Winter (Nov. 1-Apr.
History. When the terrain for Central Park was bought by the City of New York in 1853, it was faraway from civilization, somewhere between the City of New York and the village Harlem. The area contained sheds from colonists, quarries, pig farms and swamps. Central Park is one of those places that make New York such a great place to live. The huge park, 341 hectare large (843 acres), is located in the center of Manhattan. Its design has served as an example for city parks around the world.
About Central Park, New York City. Some links on this page may open in new browser window. 1  Central Park is 843 acres (11.2 km2); its 6-mile (9.6 km) perimeter extends from Central Park West to Fifth Avenue, and 59th to 110th Streets. 2  Central Park is the first major landscaped public park in the USA, North America. 1 Central Park is 843 acres (11.2 km2); its 6-mile (9.6 km) perimeter extends from Central Park West to Fifth Avenue, and 59th to 110th Streets.
Conception. When the terrain for Central Park was bought by the City of New York in 1853, it was faraway from civilization, somewhere between the City of New York and the village Harlem. The area contained sheds from colonists, quarries, pig farms and swamps. Central Park is one of those places that make New York such a great place to live. The huge park, 341 hectare large (843 acres), is located in the center of Manhattan. Its design has served as an example for city parks around the world.
Read the article. THE CENTRAL PARK FIVE, a new film from award-winning filmmaker Ken Burns, tells the story of the five black and Latino teenagers from Harlem who were wrongly convicted of raping a white woman in New York City’s Central Park in 1989. 
With 40 million visits each year to its 843 acres, Central Park is the most frequently visited urban park in the United States. Central Park Conservancy is responsible for the management, restoration and enhancement of Central Park and raises 75% of Central Park's annual Parkwide expense budget from private donations. Central Park is the 843-acre masterpiece of landscape architecture designed in the 19th century by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux and designated New York City's first scenic landmark ….