Matera [1] is the capital of the Matera province in the Basilicata region of Italy. It boasts the sassi, well-preserved rock-cut settlements that are a World Heritage site and one of Southern Italy's many important attractions. Matera is a fairly big city. One of its quarters is the old city. Just outside the old city are the Sassi-cave houses dug into the limestone rocks.
On our way back we drove into Basilicata, the region located at the instep of Italy's boot. There we made a stopover in Matera, which is a UNESCO world heritage site because of the extraordinary cave dwellings, called the Sassi. The landscape of Puglia is fantastic, very green at that time of the year.
There are reasonable hotel accommodations. There are three major districts, Civita as a hill district, Sassi district and Sasso Barisano district. Including the old town, Matera is a very safe town and Sassi area is a great place to stay for some days.
Famous for its sassi and stunning landscapes, Matera, located on the border of Basilicata and Puglia, is one of our favorite cities in Italy. It’s not only breathtaking, but fascinating: Its history goes back more than 30,000 years. Many people think that Matera’s cave dwellings are called “ sassi.” They’re not. The sassi (literally meaning “stones”) actually refer to the two neighborhoods of stone dwellings in the ancient town. Matera’s Neolithic caves. These dwellings, by the way, don’t always look like caves from the outside.
Matera, Italy. If there is one place in Italy that made the greatest impression on us I would have to say it was The Sassi of Matera. Matera is at the crook of the heel of the boot when you look at a map of Italy. After we left the Amalfi Coast we decided to go south, off the beaten path, and explore a little. A year ago. If there is one place in Italy that made the greatest impression on us I would have to say it was The Sassi of Matera. Matera is at the crook of the heel of the boot when you look at a map of Italy. After we left the Amalfi Coast we decided to go south, off the beaten path, and explore a little.
About Matera. Matera is one of the most interesting, unusual and memorable tourist destinations in Italy. In the remote southern region of Basilicata (also called Lucania), still little-visited by foreign travellers, it is a town famous for its extensive cave-dwelling districts, the sassi. Things to see in Matera. The way to start your visit to Matera is to wander around the sassi districts, looking at the cramped town above its ravine, and the tumbling grey stone facades, which appear to be houses but turn out to be caves.
But there is much more to Matera than the sassi. My intrepid companion and wife, Julie, and I recently spent several very enjoyable weeks in Matera visiting museums and craft studios, attending concerts at the local musical conservatory and, of course, visiting centuries-old palazzi, churches and cathedrals. It is an incredibly friendly, engaging and, yes, safe city. The time we spent in Matera was one of our most relaxing and enjoyable Italian adventures in years. Since Matera has approximately 58,000 inhabitants, it is not exactly a small town by Italian standards. 
Once you've arrived in Matera, read a guidebook and got a feel for the town, you will probably be able to decide for yourself if you'd rather discover the sassi independently-which is perfectly possible and safe-or if you prefer to take a guided tour. Things to see in Matera. The way to start your visit to Matera is to wander around the sassi districts, looking at the cramped town above its ravine, and the tumbling grey stone facades, which appear to be houses but turn out to be caves.
) is a city and a province in the region of Basilicata, in southern Italy. It is the capital of the province of Matera and the capital of Basilicata from 1663 to 1806. The town lies in a small canyon carved out by the Gravina. Matera is the terminal station of the Bari-Matera, a narrow gauge railroad managed by Ferrovie Appulo Lucane. The trip from Bari takes about one hour and thirty minutes The nearest airport is Bari airport and can be reached directly by train with a connection in Bari.