Whereis NSW Dubbo. Appropriately known as the 'Hub of the West', the thriving rural city of Dubbo is a busy rail, road and air junction on the Macquarie River, halfway between Melbourne and Brisbane and just over 400 kilometres from Sydney. In the heart of the city, the Old Dubbo Goal was thought to have been built in 1871 and operated until 1966, while the new Western Plains Cultural Centre, located on Wingewarra Street, is home to both the Museum and Regional Art Gallery. Popular.
Dubbo /ˈdʌboʊ/ is a city in the Orana Region of New South Wales, Australia. It is the largest population centre in the Orana region, with a population of 42,108, and serves an estimated catchment of 130,000. Dubbo railway station lies on the Main Western railway line between Sydney and Bourke and opened in 1881. Dubbo station is the terminus for a daily NSW TrainLink XPT service from Sydney. Dubbo also has its own recently upgraded airport, Dubbo Airport, with daily flights to Sydney (Qantas, Regional Express, Airlink), Broken Hill (Regional Express and Airlink), and other small out-back New South Wales towns (Airlink)
Dubbo NSW one of 18 regions in the HIGHWAY WEST, family of NSW Town Websites. Dubbo is one of 18 regions in the Highway West family linking the Blue Mountains, Central Tablelands and Central West towns of NSW together, providing a guided circuit tour of the areas. We look forward to you checking back soon to discover more about Dubbo and to continue your tour. Dubbo was first settled in the 1840's when a store was opened on the banks of the Macquarie River by Jean Emile de Bouillon Serisier. It soon became a stopping point for settlers heading out in search of better pastures and for drovers herding cattle mobs south to the Victorian markets of the day.
Dubbo is a thriving regional city servicing a geographical area one-third the size of NSW. Dubbo is ideally located at the intersection of major routes for road, rail and air transport. Continual growth has seen the City’s population exceed 41,000 with a catchment population of more than 120,000. 
It is located at the intersection of the Mitchell, Newell and Golden highways. Dubbo is located approximately 275 m (902 ft) above sea level, 303 km (188 mi) north-west of Sydney (400 km (249 mi) by road) and is a major road and rail freight hub to other parts of New South Wales. Dubbo railway station lies on the Main Western railway line between Sydney and Bourke and opened in 1881. Dubbo station is the terminus for a daily NSW TrainLink XPT service from Sydney. Dubbo also has its own recently upgraded airport, Dubbo Airport, with daily flights to Sydney (Qantas, Regional Express, Airlink), Broken Hill (Regional Express and Airlink), and other small out-back New South Wales towns (Airlink)
Map of Dubbo, NSW 2830. Appropriately known as the 'Hub of the West', the thriving rural city of Dubbo is a busy rail, road and air junction on the Macquarie River, halfway between Melbourne and Brisbane and just over 400 kilometres from Sydney. In the heart of the city, the Old Dubbo Goal was thought to have been built in 1871 and operated until 1966, while the new Western Plains Cultural Centre, located on Wingewarra Street, is home to both the Museum and Regional Art Gallery. Popular.
The Dubbo area is the perfect spot in Country NSW for a family holiday. Taronga Western Plains Zoo in Dubbo is a major attraction for visitors to the area. This 300-hectare open-range sanctuary houses more than 700 animals, including many rare and endangered species. A range of accommodation and kid-friendly attractions make Dubbo a great family holiday destination and an excellent base for exploring the Central West region of NSW. A highlight for kids and adults is the open-range Taronga Western Plains Zoo.
Dubbo is a vibrant centre in the Orana region in the heart of New South Wales situated at the junction of the Golden, Mitchell and Newell highways, straddling the Macquarie River. Dubbo was first settled in the 1840's when a store was opened on the banks of the Macquarie River by Jean Emile de Bouillon Serisier. It soon became a stopping point for settlers heading out in search of better pastures and for drovers herding cattle mobs south to the Victorian markets of the day.
Dubbo is home to many attractions for the whole family, with the Western Plains Zoo probably the best-known. Specialising in large grazing animals, the zoo presents more than 1000 exotic and native animals in open exhibits. In the heart of the city, the Old Dubbo Goal was thought to have been built in 1871 and operated until 1966, while the new Western Plains Cultural Centre, located on Wingewarra Street, is home to both the Museum and Regional Art Gallery. Popular.