0. 24. Thyroid function tests are blood tests which help to check the function of the thyroid gland. They are mainly used to detect hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid) and hyperthyroidism (overactive thyroid). Note: the information below is a general guide only. 
A thyroid level test is a blood test that allows the veterinarian to evaluate the function of the thyroid gland. Thyroid tests measure the amount of thyroid hormones in the blood. Thyroid hormones are responsible for the regulation of cell metabolism in the body. 1 A thyroid level test is a blood test that allows the veterinarian to evaluate the function of the thyroid gland. 2  Blood is drawn from the pet and sent to a laboratory for the measurement of thyroid hormone levels. 3  In dogs, thyroid testing is most commonly used to diagnose and monitor the treatment of hypothyroidism
A blood test can measure how much free T4 is available. Hypothyroidism Tests: A Measure of Treatment Success. Hypothyroidism is treated with daily medication. Taking synthetic thyroid hormone medication can bring your T4 and TSH levels back to their normal ranges. 
A blood test is needed to confirm the diagnosis. When hypothyroidism is present, the blood levels of thyroid hormones can be measured directly and are usually decreased. However, in early hypothyroidism, the level of thyroid hormones (T3 and T4) may be normal. 
Blood Tests. Hypothyroidism can be detected by different blood tests. TSH Test. A thyroid-stimulating hormone or TSH is a blood test that measures the amount of T4 (thyroxine) that the thyroid is being signaled to make. If you have an abnormally high level of TSH, it could mean you have hypothyroidism. T4 (thyroxine) Test. The thyroid gland produces T4 (thyroxine)
1 Types of Tests. 2  Benefits of Testing. 3  A thyroid level test is a blood test that allows the veterinarian to evaluate the function of the thyroid gland. 4  Blood is drawn from the pet and sent to a laboratory for the measurement of thyroid hormone levels. 1 A thyroid level test is a blood test that allows the veterinarian to evaluate the function of the thyroid gland. 2  Blood is drawn from the pet and sent to a laboratory for the measurement of thyroid hormone levels. 3  In dogs, thyroid testing is most commonly used to diagnose and monitor the treatment of hypothyroidism
TSH Testing. In diagnosing hypothyroidism, your doctor will take into account both your symptoms and the results of a thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) test. In essence, hypothyroidism is the result of diminished levels of thyroid hormones—known as T3 and T4. Your doctor will measure your TSH levels with a blood test. TSH levels are determined by ranges (all figures in mU/L—milliunits per liter). Below are the ranges, according to the American Thyroid Association. However, these numbers are not set in stone.
Diagnosis of Hashimoto's disease is based on your signs and symptoms and the results of blood tests that measure levels of thyroid hormone and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) produced in the pituitary gland. These may include: 1  A hormone test. 
TESTS. Blood tests to measure TSH, T4, T3 and Free T4 are readily available and widely used. Tests to evaluate thyroid function include the following: TSH TESTS The best way to initially test thyroid function is to measure the TSH level in a blood sample. A high TSH level indicates that the thyroid gland is failing because of a problem that is directly affecting the thyroid (primary hypothyroidism).