The C-reactive protein (CRP) test is used to find swelling and infection in your body. It does this by measuring the amount of CRP in your blood. CRP is a protein made by the liver and sent into the bloodstream. Blood levels may be higher when you have swelling (inflammation) or an infection. 
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a substance produced by the liver that increases in the presence of inflammation in the body. An elevated C-reactive protein level is identified with blood tests and is considered a non-specific marker for disease. CRP levels can be measured via a blood test. In evaluating cardiac risk, physicians look at a very narrow range of CRP levels, from zero to 3.0 and above. This requires a special test called high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), which may be able to reveal inflammation at the micro-vascular level.
Guide. A C-reactive protein (CRP) test is a blood test that measures the amount of a protein called C-reactive protein in your blood. C-reactive protein measures general levels of inflammation in your body. High levels of CRP are caused by infections and many long-term diseases. But a CRP test cannot show where the inflammation is located or what is causing it. Other tests are needed to find the cause and location of the inflammation.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is an annular (ring-shaped), pentameric protein found in blood plasma, whose levels rise in response to inflammation. It is an acute-phase protein of hepatic origin that increases following interleukin-6 secretion by macrophages and T cells. CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells (adipocytes). It is a member of the pentraxin family of proteins. It is not related to C-peptide (insulin) or protein C (blood coagulation). C-reactive protein was the first pattern recognition receptor (PRR) to be identified.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a substance produced by the liver in response to inflammation. Other names for CRP are high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (HS-CRP), or ultra-sensitive C-reactive protein (US-CRP). A high level of CRP in the blood is a sign that there may be an inflammatory process occurring in the body.
Definition. The level of C-reactive protein (CRP), which can be measured in your blood, increases when there's inflammation in your body. Your doctor may check your C-reactive protein level treatment for infections or for other medical conditions. 
CRP tests for heart disease. It's thought that high hs-CRP levels in your blood are associated with narrowed coronary arteries. A CRP test can't tell your doctor where the inflammation is, though, so it's possible that a high hs-CRP level could mean there's inflammation somewhere other than your heart.
Instead, inflammation is evaluated with a test that measures levels in excess of 10 mg/L. With most active infections and inflammatory processes, C-reactive protein levels are above 100 mg/L. Under these circumstances, the CRP test is used to follow the trend. CRP levels can be measured via a blood test. In evaluating cardiac risk, physicians look at a very narrow range of CRP levels, from zero to 3.0 and above. This requires a special test called high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), which may be able to reveal inflammation at the micro-vascular level.
There are two tests for elevated C-reactive protein. One can show a non-specific elevation of CRP that occurs with general inflammatory changes in the body; the other test is hs-CRP-highly sensitive CRP-which is a measure of inflammation in blood vessels. CRP levels can be measured via a blood test. In evaluating cardiac risk, physicians look at a very narrow range of CRP levels, from zero to 3.0 and above. This requires a special test called high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), which may be able to reveal inflammation at the micro-vascular level.