It's not like I alternate and stretch more than before, I have just become aware that I actually do. Alternating between work & stretch. I have felt quite alone in this practice, apart from apparently a Dutch dressage training couple, who describe how they alternate the bearing of their horses in quick succession. A third reason is that a stretch sets everything up to success. If the horse is stretching, before and after you collect him and ask for hard work, odds are higher that he will do the collection part better, using the right muscles, because he is set up for doing the right thing, stretching over his back.
Metabolic Abnormalities. Glucose is normally stored as an energy source in the form of polysaccharide (“polysaccharide” means “many molecules of glucose”) called glycogen in the liver and muscles. Horses with PSSM actually have an excessive accumulation of glycogen molecules in muscle cell cytoplasm. Symptoms of “shivers” where there is an abnormal hindleg action and muscle quivering have been described in draft breeds. If left unmanaged, over time the muscles can atrophy and the horse can show severe muscle wasting. The horse may eventually be unable to rise from a lying down position.
The front of the back is where the saddle and rider are placed. Strengthening these muscles and letting them work in the young horse that is learning to handle the rider's weight, helps the horse from hollowing under the saddle and sustaining injury there, or experiencing cramps and pain while ridden. A third reason is that a stretch sets everything up to success. If the horse is stretching, before and after you collect him and ask for hard work, odds are higher that he will do the collection part better, using the right muscles, because he is set up for doing the right thing, stretching over his back.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. In dressage, polo wraps are used on a horse's legs for protection, and these wraps need to be applied correctly and with even pressure so they don't injure the horse's tendons. Learn about using bell boots and dressage boots to protect a horse's feet with helpful advice in this video on horse training and dressage. 
By Craig Sernotti. Exercise is an important aspect of horse care. It helps build and maintain muscles, allows you to bond with your animal, keeps him calm and happy, and done properly, keeps him in optimal health. Horses who aren’t exercised regularly can become uncontrollable and sick. 
That is why in riding we are talking about a supple jaw. The jaw gives, not the neck or the head, because if the neck or head gives in, the horse is off balance due to it. When the jaw gives the horse flexes at the poll. 
The neck is very agile and most horses can bite their own chest, flank or rump if they make an effort. The vertebrae in the neck do not have the spinous processes that do those of the chest and back. and they work a bit like a chain, being very mobile in most directions. The muscles attach directly onto the vertebral bodies. The spinal column of the neck does not follow the contour of the neck as seen from the outside.
The horse's weight is distributed over its haunches and forehand. Because of the heavy head and neck, the horse carries a greater amount of weight on its forehand. When in motion, the horse uses its head and neck to influence its balance. One of the key elements of dressage is improving the horse s balance. By teaching the horse to carry more of the cumbersome weight of the forehand with its haunches the forehand lightens and makes the horse more agile and balanced. When the horse s nose is behin d the vertical, the thrusting energy of the hind legs does not travel through to the poll. It only makes it to the spot in the neck where the vertebra are broken, at which point the energy is stifled by the heavy head and remaining neck that are hanging downward off the front.
While symptoms may vary depending on the breed, there is so much similarity that the two terms probably represent two ends of a spectrum of a single metabolic muscle disorder. A recent article from Spain documented PSSM in 9 show jumpers and dressage horses showing back pain. Symptoms of “shivers” where there is an abnormal hindleg action and muscle quivering have been described in draft breeds. If left unmanaged, over time the muscles can atrophy and the horse can show severe muscle wasting. The horse may eventually be unable to rise from a lying down position.