Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depending on the alcoholic content of the wine, it will freeze at a lower temperature than water. Most wine will start to freeze at -6'C or 22'F. 
The Chemistry of Freezing Alcohol. Ethanol, the alcohol found in beer, wine, and liquors, has a melting point of -114ºC (-173ºF). That melting point represents the temperature at which ethanol passes from the solid “frozen” phase to the liquid state. Water has a melting point of 0ºC (32ºF). In your home freezer, beer and wine freeze because they are mostly, but not completely, water. Beer and wine don’t freeze quite as solid as just water in your home freezer.
The water, however, will freeze at 32 F. You may calculate the actual freezing point depression of wine using Kfp X msolute where Kfp is the Freezing Point constant of water (-1.86 C/m), and m is the molality of the solute (ethanol).
What temperature does bottled wine freeze at? —John, Gaithersburg, Md. Dear John, It depends on the alcohol content, but most wine will freeze at about 15 to 20 degrees F, and it would need to stay at that temperature for a while before it freezes solidly.
Alcohol's freezing point is lower than water, but as the water content of the wine begins to freeze, it will begin to expand, and this will put a lot of pressure on the cork, which might begin to be pushed out, and on the bottle, which might crack. Don't freeze your wine bottles! —Dr. —John, Gaithersburg, Md. Dear John, It depends on the alcohol content, but most wine will freeze at about 15 to 20 degrees F, and it would need to stay at that temperature for a while before it freezes solidly.
The water in the wine will expand into ice crystals (water is fairly unique in that it expands as it freezes) and since the volume of the bottle is nearly constant, the pressure will increase; possibly dislodging the cork. Pure ethanol has a freezing point of approximately -173.2 degrees Fahrenheit. You may calculate the actual freezing point depression of wine using Kfp X msolute where Kfp is the Freezing Point constant of water (-1.86 C/m), and m is the molality of the solute (ethanol).
Since wine has water in it, the water will freeze at 32 degrees F and you will be left with a slushy liquid until it gets cold enough to freeze the alcohol. Freezing a bottle is a bad idea because it could burst. Water expands when it freezes forcing the bottle to expand and break. To freeze alcohol you will have drop the temperature well below the freezing point of water (32 F) typically around 20ish degrees F. You really shouldn’t put any bottle of liquid in the freezer because you run the risk of it exploding, so freezing may be the least of your concerns!
Wine is 85 to 90 percent water, so it freezes at about 20 F (-6.7 C) -- the water freezes first at 32 F (zero C) and then the alcohol after that [source: Wine Spectator ]. It'll be slushy for a while before it becomes solid. A word to the wise: Don't freeze wine in the bottle. 
About 23 degrees Fahrenheit Wine is a water based solution containing ethanol (and various other solutes), it has to get colder than the freezing point of water (32 F or 0 C) .Generally wine will freeze around 20 F (-7 C) depending on the type of wine. You may calculate the actual freezing point depression of wine using Kfp X msolute where Kfp is the Freezing Point constant of water (-1.86 C/m), and m is the molality of the solute (ethanol).
The answer is…Yes. Wine does freeze. Wine is a water based solution and even contains various solutes like ethanol. To freeze alcohol you will have drop the temperature well below the freezing point of water (32 F) typically around 20ish degrees F. You really shouldn’t put any bottle of liquid in the freezer because you run the risk of it exploding, so freezing may be the least of your concerns!