NATTOKINASE Overview Information. Nattokinase is an enzyme (a protein that speeds up biochemical reactions) that is extracted from a popular Japanese food called natto. Natto is boiled soybeans that have been fermented with a bacterium called Bacillus natto. Natto has been used as a folk remedy for diseases of the heart and circulatory system (cardiovascular disease) for hundreds of years. Nattokinase, the chemical in natto that is probably responsible for its effects, was discovered by a University of Chicago researcher, Dr. Hiroyuki Sumi.
Nattokinase supplement products are sourced from the soybean-based Japanese food natto or a variation of its production process. Supplements of the nutrient are offered as capsules and tablets, often in vegetarian and gluten-free form. Nattokinase is a unique enzyme derived from natto, a Japanese food made with fermented soybeans. The dish, which is often eaten for breakfast, has a pungent cheese-like flavor and smell, due to its fermentation process
Nattokinase is a highly purified enzyme which is produced by the fermentation process of soybeans. It is a fibrinolytic enzyme that has been scientifically proven to have many health benefits, primarily for the cardiovascular and circulatory system. The nattokinase enzymes break down the fibers of blood clots (called fibrins), working in the same way as thrombolytic drugs like urokinase and streptokinase. The only difference is that nattokinase is taken orally, whereas the ‘drugs’ are administered intravenously, usually in hospital.
Nattokinase is a potent fibrinolytic enzyme extracted and highly purified from a traditional Japanese food called Natto. Natto is a fermented cheese-like food that has been used in Japan for over 1000 years for its popular taste and as a folk remedy for heart and vascular diseases. 
Nattokinase may be potentially useful as a clot-buster and blood thinner, and is considered by some in the alternative medicine community as a possible adjunctive therapy in cardiovascular disease. There is some evidence for its effectiveness. Possible side effects have been reported. Nattokinase can now be produced by recombinant means and in batch culture, rather than relying on extraction from Nattō. Nattokinase was first isolated and marketed under the name of NSK-SD in 1998 by Japan Bio Science Laboratory, which had removed vitamin K2.
The biological structure of nattokinase is actually not a kinase enzyme (as you would think from it’s name), but is a serine protease. In the human body, serine proteases take control of things like coagulation of blood, the immune system and lead the way for your digestive system. The nattokinase enzymes break down the fibers of blood clots (called fibrins), working in the same way as thrombolytic drugs like urokinase and streptokinase. The only difference is that nattokinase is taken orally, whereas the ‘drugs’ are administered intravenously, usually in hospital.
Nattokinase was discovered in 1980, by Dr Hiroyuki Sumi, who was working at the Chicago University Medical School. He was testing 172 different foods for their ability to promote healthy circulation, and Nattokinase did the job better than any other substance he was testing. First, Nattokinase is identical to Plasmin, so it can break down Fibrin! Second, Nattokinase enhances your body’s natural production of Plasmin, further helping to break down the Fibrin. In a nutshell, Nattokinase: 1  Supports normal circulation, blood flow and blood thickness.
Nattokinase (pronounced nat-oh-KY-nase) is an enzyme (EC 3.4.21.62) extracted and purified from a Japanese food called nattō. Nattō is made from fermented soybeans and has been eaten in Japan for about a thousand years. Nattō is produced by fermentation by adding the bacterium Bacillus natto to boiled soybeans. Nattokinase can now be produced by recombinant means and in batch culture, rather than relying on extraction from Nattō. Nattokinase was first isolated and marketed under the name of NSK-SD in 1998 by Japan Bio Science Laboratory, which had removed vitamin K2.
Nattokinase is used for cardiovascular diseases including heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, chest pain (angina), deep vein thrombosis (DVT), “hardening of the arteries ” (atherosclerosis), hemorrhoids, varicose veins, poor circulation, and peripheral artery disease (PAD). Natto has been used as a folk remedy for diseases of the heart and circulatory system (cardiovascular disease) for hundreds of years. Nattokinase, the chemical in natto that is probably responsible for its effects, was discovered by a University of Chicago researcher, Dr. Hiroyuki Sumi.