Best Answer: 1. Dilator pupillae-dilator (radial) muscle-innervated by sympathetic nervous system (Alpha-1 receptors)- increases the size of pupil (mydriasis) 2. Constrictor (circular muscle) pupillae-constricts the pupil (miosis) ex during accommodation reflex. · just now. Report Abuse. Radial muscles and circular muscles. When the radial muscles contract the size of the pupil is increased. When the circular muscles contract the size of the pupil is decreased. Changing the size of the pupil controls the amount of light entering the eye.
Pupils become smaller when the light is bright, and larger in the dark. Eye doctors dilate eyes to check for signs of disease. Eyes can also dilate as a result of an illness, or another condition or emotion. The circular and radial muscle of the iris control eye dilation. The radial muscle responds to dim light and will cause your pupil to become larger. The circular muscle reacts to bright light and causes the pupil to grow smaller
Has a hole in it called the PUPIL. Made up of radial and circular muscle. Radial muscle contracts-pupil enlarged. Circular muscle contracts-pupil size reduced. Regulation of amount of light entering the eye. eg., Bright sunshine-pin point pupil. 
The iris dilator muscle (pupil dilator muscle, pupillary dilator, radial muscle of iris, radiating fibers), is a smooth muscle of the eye, running radially in the iris and therefore fit as a dilator. The pupillary dilator consists of a spokelike arrangement of modified contractile cells called myoepithelial cells. These cells are stimulated by the sympathetic nervous system. When stimulated, the cells contract, widening the pupil and allowing for more light to pass through the eye. It is innervated by the sympathetic system, which acts by releasing noradrenaline, which acts on α1-receptors. Thus, when presented with a threatening stimuli that activates the fight-or-flight response, this innervation contracts the muscle and dilates the iris, thus temporarily letting more light reach the retina.
Eye exercises have always been considered to be beneficial in some way for vision and eye health. After all, there are many muscles around and within the eyeball, all of which have important functions. The main muscle groups for the eye are the ciliary muscles, iris sphincter muscles and extraocular muscles. 
detrusor muscle of bladder, detrusor urinae muscle the bundles of smooth muscle fibers forming the muscular coat of the urinary bladder, which are arranged in a longitudinal and a circular layer and, on contraction, serve to expel urine. 
Iris. Is a pigmented muscular structure consisting of an inner ring of circular muscle and an outer layer of radial muscle. Its function is to help control the amount of light entering the eye so that: - too much light does not enter the eye which would damage the retina-enough light enters to allow a person to see. Is an opaque, fibrous, protective outer structure. It is soft connective tissue, and the spherical shape of the eye is maintained by the pressure of the liquid inside. It provides attachment surfaces for eye muscles. Choroid. Has a network of blood vessels to supply nutrients to the cells and remove waste products.
In other words, contraction of radial smooth muscle causes dilation of the pupil. This explains the autonomic actions: 1  Increased release of acetylcholine by the parasympathetic nervous system causes contraction of circular smooth muscle. 2  This makes the pupil (the dark hole) smaller. The pupil is contricted or dilated by the contraction of smooth muscle in the iris. There are two types. One type is arranged in the circle near the pupil. When a circle of muscle contracts, the circle becomes smaller. Thus contraction of the circular muscle causes constric
In order to regulate the light levels entering the eye, the size of the pupil is adjusted by the iris. The tiny muscles that make up the iris, known as the circular and radial muscles, relax and contract to maintain a fairly constant level of light entering the eye. In bright light, the circular muscles contract whilst the radial muscles relax. This causes the pupil to constrict and less light enters the eye. In dim conditions the opposite occurs. The circular muscles relax and the radial muscles contract, causing the pupil to dilate and allowing more light to pass into the eye. 