The solar system is made of the eight planets that orbit our sun it is also made of asteroids, moons, comets and lots, lots more. The sun has such powerful gravity it tries to pull the planets towards it. While the planets try to fly away in the end they are kind of in the middle floating around the sun. Introduction. We have nine planets in our Solar System. These planets circle around the sun (as I’m sure you know already) this is called orbits. A lot of astronomy people like to think of the Solar System been made up in two parts We have the Inner Solar System which has Mercury, Venus, Earth and not forgetting Mars.
The outer planets (Jupiter, Saturn are known as gas giants. Obviously because they are made of gas with a cloudy surface. If you were to step on one of the gas giants, you would sink right through the surface and die. Uranus, and Neptune are now known as the Ice Giants because they are comprised of mainly ice. 
The inner planets (Mars, Earth, Venus, and Mercury) are known as rocky planets specifically because they are solid. The basic anatomy of any rocky planet is a crust (surface), mantle, and a core. The outer planets (Jupiter, Saturn are known as gas giants. Obviously because they are made of gas with a cloudy surface. If you were to step on one of the gas giants, you would sink right through the surface and die. Uranus, and Neptune are now known as the Ice Giants because they are comprised of mainly ice.
Earth and the other three inner planets of our solar system (Mercury, Venus and Mars) are made of rock, containing common minerals like feldspars and metals like magnesium and aluminum. So is Pluto. The other planets are not solid. Jupiter, for instance, is made up mostly of trapped helium, hydrogen, and water. In our solar system, the four gas giants are Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune, and Uranus. Planets with their relative sizes to scale. The tiny bluish dot at the lower left is Earth.
Under IAU definitions, there are eight planets in the Solar System. In order of increasing distance from the Sun, they are the four terrestrials, Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars, then the four giant planets, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Six of the planets are orbited by one or more natural satellites. 
Planets and How They Formed. The planets in our Solar System are believed to have formed from the same spinning disc of dust that formed the Sun. This disc, called the solar nebula, was composed mainly of hydrogen and helium, but also had other elements in smaller proportions. 
ROCKY PLANETS (Mercury-Venus-Earth-Mars-Pluto). The rocky planets are mostly made up of rock and metal. These planets are very heavy and move slowly. They also do not have rings and very few moons. GAS PLANETS (Jupiter-Saturn-Uranus-Neptune). The gas planets are mostly made up of gases (hydrogen and helium). These planets are light for their sizes (just like a big air balloon) and move quickly. They have rings and lots of moons.
The four planets closest to the Sun are largely made up of rock, like the Earth, and are called the terrestrial (Earth-like) planets. The next four planets are much larger and made mainly from hydrogen and helium. They are often called gas giants. Pluto is different still, a deep-frozen world of rock and ice. PLANETS. A planet is a world that orbits a star. There are nine planets circling around the Sun—Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. They take different amounts of time to orbit the Sun, from only 88 days for Mercury to nearly 250 years for Pluto.