Utrecht In Your Pocket. In our humble opinion, Utrecht is the Netherlands’ most charming city. Anyone who disagrees has probably never been to this vibrant student town. With no less than a millennium of history, Utrecht is proud of its age-old traditions. Holland’s fourth largest city is the kind of town you can visit at any time of the year. If you’re a fan of UNESCO-protected architecture, then Utrecht’s churches and ancient sunken wharf cellars will be a real treat. The best of Utrecht and many other Dutch cities can be found online, in a free downloadable PDF, on your iPhone or in good old fashioned print. Emails with suggestions, comments and pictures are always welcome at utrecht@inyourpocket.com.
[ˈytrɛxt]. ) is the capital and most populous city in the Dutch province of Utrecht. It is located in the eastern corner of the Randstad conurbation and is the fourth largest city in the Netherlands with a population of 330,772 in 2014. Utrecht is well-connected to the Dutch road network. Two of the most important major roads serve the city of Utrecht: the A12 and A2 motorways connect Amsterdam, Arnhem, The Hague and Maastricht, as well as Belgium and Germany.
1 The Post Office is an outstanding and surprising building. 2  The Utrecht main Post Office (in use as such from 1924 until 2011) is a great example of Dutch Art Deco architecture. 3  The Post Office, located on the Neude Square, was designed by the architect J. Crouwel and completed in 1924. In Utrecht there is a tram line from central station to southern suburbs Nieuwegein and IJsselstein. For tourists, only the the first stops will be interesting, Westplein and Graadt van Roggeweg. These are located next to the Turkish neighbourhood and the main convention centre respectively.
Let us tell you all about a typical day at International School Utrecht. ‘Join’ our early years, primary and secondary students as they go through the day, are out on an excursion, or celebrate together. The ... 
Charming Canals and Stunning Architecture. Located on the banks of the Rhine River, charming Utrecht is the fourth biggest city in the Netherlands. Home to the largest university in Holland, this beautiful destination features picturesque streets, gorgeous canals and a stunning historic center. Location is fantastic-very central to most sights of Utrecht, within yards of the central tower, but on a relatively quiet street. Food and service in the cafe, excellent quality. One of the nicest hotels I've stayed in to date-thank you! ”.
Utrecht has a young population, with many inhabitants in the age category from 20 and 30 years, due to the presence of a large university. About 52% of the population is female, 48% is male. The majority of households (52.5%) in Utrecht are single person households. Utrecht is well-connected to the Dutch road network. Two of the most important major roads serve the city of Utrecht: the A12 and A2 motorways connect Amsterdam, Arnhem, The Hague and Maastricht, as well as Belgium and Germany.
Utrecht was the most important city in the Netherlands until the Dutch Golden Age, when it was succeeded by Amsterdam as the country's cultural centre and most populous city. Utrecht is host to Utrecht University, the largest university in the Netherlands, as well as several other institutes for higher education. Utrecht is well-connected to the Dutch road network. Two of the most important major roads serve the city of Utrecht: the A12 and A2 motorways connect Amsterdam, Arnhem, The Hague and Maastricht, as well as Belgium and Germany.
) is a province of the Netherlands. It is located in the centre of the country, bordering the Eemmeer in the north, the province of Gelderland in the east, the river Rhine in the south, the province of South Holland in the west and the province of North Holland in the north-west. The Bishopric of Utrecht was established in 695 when Saint Willibrord was consecrated bishop of the Frisians at Rome by Pope Sergius I. With the consent of the Frankish ruler, Pippin of Herstal, he settled in an old Roman fort in Utrech
Contrary to popular belief, the most beautiful canal city in all of Europe is not Venice, Amsterdam, Saint Petersburg, Annecy, Hamburg or Bruges. Rather, according to Berlin-based travel search engine GoEuro, the honor is bestowed upon our very own city of Utrecht. Utrecht is awesome because it has Hoog Catharijne. One of the largest indoor malls in The Netherlands, Hoog Catharijne houses over 150 stores. It is connected to Utrecht Central Station, making the city easily accessible to the rest of the country, Europe and the rest of the world via Schiphol.