Generally you can get tax refund information 72 hours after the IRS has acknowledged the receipt of your efiled tax return, or three to four weeks after mailing a paper tax return. 4. IRS Check by Mail: Once your tax return has been received and processed, the IRS will issue you a paper check and send it through the post office. It generally takes about twice as long as direct deposit to receive your refund in the mail. Check in this order: 1. Tax Refund Dates 2. Tax Refund Status 3.
Q2: What is the best and fastest way to get information about my refund? Use the IRS2Go mobile app or the Where’s My Refund? tool. You can start checking on the status of your tax return within 24 hours after we have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return. Q19: What information is available on Where's My Refund? Information on Where's My Refund? is for the most recent tax year we have on file for you. You can check on the status of your refund 24 hours after you e-file. If you filed a paper return, please allow 4 weeks before checking on the status.
We know how important your tax refund is to you. Good news, the IRS started processing tax returns on January 30th. Returns will be processed in the order they were submitted and as soon as your tax return is accepted, we will notify you by email. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year. 
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
1 You will not be able to start checking the status of your tax refund for 4 weeks if you mail a paper tax return. 2  Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives
You might learn that the IRS has accepted your income tax return within days of filing or after a few weeks, depending on how you file. The Internal Revenue Service can accept your tax return within 72 hours of e-filing or within three weeks for a paper return. You will receive an email notification that your return has been received within 24 hours of your electronic submission. The Where's My Refund tool on the IRS website allows you to check the status of your tax refund, including the date that it was accepted. Step 1. Wait for at least 72 hours after filing electronically or three weeks after mailing your return and then use the Where's My Refund tool on the IRS website or call the Refund Hotline at 1-800–829–1954 for automated information about your tax return.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund
If you paper file, it will take three to four weeks for the IRS to process the return and acknowledge your refund. If you e-file, you will get a notice of arrival within 24 hours and confirmation of refund within 72 hours. 4. Request Direct Deposit. Once your tax return is accepted and the refund approved, you can choose to have your money directly deposited in your bank account within a week. If you choose to have a paper check sent through the mail from the IRS, this option will add at least another two weeks to the process.