Some charge the monthly management fee when a unit is vacant, while others do not. In the D.C. metro region, our company charges 75 percent of one month's rent for full-service leasing and 7.5 percent of the monthly rent received from tenants for property management services. We don't add fees, charge markups, or charge a fee when a unit is vacant.
The costs of using a letting agent. Letting agents traditionally charge in one of two ways; both of which relate to the amount of rent payable. Either the letting agent charges a fee relating to a multiple of the weekly rent-two weeks plus VAT is typical.
Management fee. There is a significant difference between commercial vs residential property management fees but the average management fee ranges between 4-12% of monthly rent. For a single family home you might expect to pay 10% in rental property management fees. 
Recurring Management Fees To cover the cost of property management services we collect a percentage of the monthly rent. Rentals under $600 per month usually have a minimum charge of $50. Lease Signing Fees When a tenant is placed in the property, we charge an initial leasing fee of up to one full month's rent. There is a flat set up fee charged for properties that are already tenant occupied upon management.
It is common for companies to charge both a leasing fee, which is typically a percentage of the first month's rent (75 to 100 percent is typical), and a monthly management fee (often 7 to 10 percent a month). In the D.C. metro region, our company charges 75 percent of one month's rent for full-service leasing and 7.5 percent of the monthly rent received from tenants for property management services. We don't add fees, charge markups, or charge a fee when a unit is vacant.
Once this is done, you can then take on the day-to-day management. However, it's not as easy as just collecting the rent. Managing the property yourself can save you the cost of the agent's fees and help build a more direct relationship with your tenant. 
Lettings agents will typically offer a “let-only” service, where they will find, interview and vet tenants, do the paperwork and take the deposit and first month’s rent for a fee of around 10 per cent of the rent. Then there is a “full management”service, which can cost 15 per cent or more. Here, the agent will continue to collect rent and deal with the day-to-day running of the property. An agent’s services can be essential for landlords who have properties far away or a large portfolio to manage.
You can afford the cost. Hiring a property management company is an attractive option if you can afford the fees. When interviewing companies, expect to hear quotes ranging between 5% and 10% of what you collect in rent revenue.
This entry was posted in Rental Agent FAQ on October 21, 2011 by rent1168. Rental Agent Fees. Fees can vary from area to area, but it’s typical for rental managers to charge you a small percentage of your monthly rent—commonly between 8 and 15 percent—for their services. If you choose to use a rental agent for “leasing only” purposes, they’ll likely charge you roughly one month’s rent in exchange for marketing and showing your property, screening tenants, drawing up a lease agreement, and ultimately placing a well-qualified tenant in your rental.