Apatite is a group of phosphate minerals which includes hydroxyl-apatite, fluor-apatite and chlor-apatite. Apatite is the most common type of phosphate in the world and it is the main source for phosphorus, a chemical essential to bioenergetics and photosynthesis. Apatite is composed of calcium phosphate, which is the same material that makes up teeth and bones. Although apatite is a very common mineral, transparent gemstone-quality apatite is extremely rare. Despite apatite being the defining mineral for 5 on the Mohs scale of mineral hardness, it remains virtually unknown to most consumers and is seldom found in jewelry stores.
Apatite is the most common phosphate mineral, and is the main source of the phosphorus required by plants. The bones and teeth of most animals, including humans, are composed of calcium phosphate, which is the same material as Apatite. (These biological Apatites are almost exclusively the Hydroxylapatite type.). Apatite is named for the Greek word apate, which means deceit, since Apatite is similar in appearance to many other minerals. Apatite describes a group of similar isomorphous hexagonal phosphate minerals. The primary Apatite group includes Fluorapatite, Chlorapatite, and Hydroxylapatite
Apatite is a mineral that is often mistaken for other minerals. This tendency is reflected in the mineral's name, which is derived from the Greek word απατείν (apatein), which means to deceive or to be misleading. Apatite is one of a few minerals produced and used by biological micro-environmental systems. Apatite is the defining mineral for 5 on the Mohs scale. Hydroxyapatite, also known as hydroxylapatite, is the major component of tooth enamel and bone mineral
Apatite is the name of a group of phosphate minerals with similar chemical compositions and physical properties. They are an important constituent of phosphorite, a rock mined for its phosphorus content and used to make fertilizers, acids, and chemical. As a gemstone, apatite is more popular with gem collectors than it is with jewelry buyers. The mineral has a Mohs hardness of 5, breaks with parting, and is very brittle. These characteristics make it too fragile for use in most types of jewelry.
Apatite is the name of a common type of mineral. Apatite minerals have the ability to capture and hold radioactive and metal contaminants. Large amounts of apatite are in bones and smaller amounts are in rocks. Apatite and apatite-like minerals make up most of our teeth and bones. Apatite has many uses. 
(~2.4, 5.6). Comments: Fluorapatite is the commonest apatite variety. Apatite is abundant throughout the world, and is, in fact, the main constituent of bones and teeth. It is also the most abundant phosphorus-bearing mineral, especially cellophane, the massive type that makes up large beds in some localities. Apatite is brittle and heat sensitive, and must be cut and worn with care.
Not to be confused with appetite. Apatite is a group of phosphate minerals, usually referring to hydroxylapatite, fluorapatite and chlorapatite, with high concentrations of OH − , F − and Cl − ions, respectively, in the crystal. Apatite is one of a few minerals produced and used by biological micro-environmental systems. Apatite is the defining mineral for 5 on the Mohs scale.
Definition of APATITE. : any of a group of calcium phosphate minerals occurring in various colors as hexagonal crystals, as granular masses, or in fine-grained masses as the chief constituent of phosphate rock and of bones and teeth; especially: calcium phosphate fluoride. See apatite defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 