1 Tahiti and Her Islands-A Guide to Tahiti and the Islands of French Polynesia. 2  Tahiti Activities and Sightseeing. 3  Tahiti Activities and Sightseeing. 4  Tahiti's Sea Life-What You'll See While Snorkeling or Diving in Tahiti. You'll have to don scuba gear to catch glimpses of some of the larger and more impressive specimens, but just snorkeling from your overwater bungalow on Tahiti, Moorea or Bora Bora, you are apt to spy some pretty amazing species-from delicate reef fish to adorable sea turtles to small black-tipped reef sharks.
Abstract. The new species Tongorchestia borabora sp. nov. is described from Vaitape in Bora Bora, Leeward Islands, Society Islands. This is the first talitrid amphipod reported from Bora Bora and the third species of Tongorchestia from the Western Pacific oceanic islands. Currently Tongorchestia is endemic to oceanic islands in the Western Pacific.
Bora Bora was first occupied by Polynesian traders and colonists in the fourth century. In 1722, Dutch explorer Jakob Roggeveen made the first European sighting, but a European would not land on the island until James Cook in 1770. Bora Bora remained an independent kingdom until annexed by the French in 1888. The island of Bora Bora with its spectacular lagoon and beautiful coral reefs is just 11.3 square miles (29,266,865 sq. km) in size. Volcanic in origin, the island is mountainous and jagged, with bare black rock on the higher points.
Bora Bora. Bora Bora is situated approximately 140 miles (225km) northwest of Tahiti, in the western Leeward group of the Society islands of French Polynesia. It is a rugged, volcanic, mountainous island featuring a large lagoon surrounded by beautiful coral reefs and islets. The island of Bora Bora with its spectacular lagoon and beautiful coral reefs is just 11.3 square miles (29,266,865 sq. km) in size. Volcanic in origin, the island is mountainous and jagged, with bare black rock on the higher points.
Undoubtedly the most celebrated island in the South Pacific, Bora Bora is French Polynesia's leading lady. Her beauty is unrivaled and her fame, unwavering. Bora Bora is one of the few places on earth that everyone hopes to witness in their lifetime—and once you see it, you are forever enamored. The InterContinental Bora Bora Le Moana Resort is one of only three hotels located on the main island of Bora Bora, affording easy access to Vaitape and Matira Point, often considered to be one of the most beautiful beaches in the world.
There is a large number of exotic bird species, which the government of Polynesia has put protection on to ensure their healthy future. Bora Bora has an incredible variety of marine life. Crabs roam the shores of the island while sea turtles, dolphins, and humpback whales tour the seas. It is claimed that there are nearly 500 different species of fish swimming around the Tahitian islands. Bora Bora is exceptional in that it hosts the perfect conditions for a variety of manta rays to flourish. Snorkelers and scuba divers can easily spot the Gray ray and can even pet the species during the \ray feeding.\ Your Bora Bora cruise will also provide you with the opportunity to watch professional divers feed reef sharks that grow up to five feet long. Deep-sea fishing is a popular attraction on Bora Bora.
#1 Bora Bora is part of France. Bora Bora is a tropical island in French Polynesia (more commonly known as Tahiti) which is made up of 118 islands that are divided into five groups. The volcanic Society Islands in the middle South Pacific Ocean is where you’ll find Bora Bora, halfway between Australia and the USA. Snorkeling and scuba diving is a huge attraction in Bora Bora. There are hundreds of underwater species that can be seen while out exploring the calm, blue waters around
Geography: Bora Bora is known for having the most beautiful lagoon in the world. The turquoise lagoon surrounds a lush, volcanic island, with three main peaks, Mt. Hue (619m), Mt. Pahia (661m), and Mt. Otemanu (727m). Around the perimeter of the lagoon, are a series of motus (small islands). On the outside of the lagoon, a barrier reef lines the motus protecting the lagoon from the harsh weather of the open sea. Bora Bora is the second most popular tourist destination in the Society Islands after Tahiti, and it shows.
During your Bora Bora travel you will encounter a burgeoning wildlife population that is unlike any other. Bora Bora is a dormant volcano, which means that it rose out of the middle of the ocean millenniums ago and all of its wildlife has migrated to the island over the past few centuries. Snorkelers and scuba divers can easily spot the Gray ray and can even pet the species during the \ray feeding.\ Your Bora Bora cruise will also provide you with the opportunity to watch professional divers feed reef sharks that grow up to five feet long. Deep-sea fishing is a popular attraction on Bora Bora.