Twelve men have been jailed for a total of 31 years following the match day violence. On the run: A gang of thugs is captured on CCTV racing down the street as they try to escape the police. Marcus Greatorex, 22, and Jake Sinclair, 26, were each jailed for 32 months. Callum Busby, 19, received 32 months youth custody.
“It is time that football fans and clubs are given some credit for the huge reduction in football disorder in recent years.”. The 2,363 arrests during the 2011-12 season was the lowest on record and a huge drop from 3,391 in 2009-10. Last season, with arrests rising, there were 589 new football banning orders – taking the total number nationally to 2,451.
In 1885, one of the first ever reported instances of football violence came when Preston North End’s “Invincibles” team defeated Aston Villa in a friendly match. After the game, both sides were pelted with stones, sticks and fists as they left the pitch.
Racism is a problem for football across Europe and is an important factor in the problem of football hooliganism itself. The actual extent of racism is virtually impossible to measure as detailed statistics in this context are almost non-existent.
A notorious gang of football hooligans who attacked rival fans at a busy family pub, sending customers fleeing for safety, were today jailed for a total of years 31 years. The assault by Lincoln City thugs on a group of Luton Town supporters was described as some of the worst football violence seen in recent years.
Ed Hawkins speaks to three ringleaders from the heyday of football hooliganism and asks whether they regret the violence that shamed a nation. Cardiff City fan Annis Abraham Jnr Photo: Rex.
And 1985 was undoubtedly the lowest year of all. In March of that year, BBC viewers were left open-mouthed as an FA Cup Quarter Final between Luton Town & Millwall at Kenilworth Road descended into what most writers described as “the worst example of football violence seen at an English ground”.
Clash: There has been a steep rise in arrests for pyrotechnics, like these in Greece. Football hooliganism is back on the rise, with 2,456 matchday arrests last season, it emerged yesterday. Arrests for violence more than doubled from 273 to 554, while 42 thugs were collared for racist chanting – up from 23 the previous season, figures revealed.