The Meninges. The meninges are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater that surround the neuraxis. The meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Dura Mater The dura mater is the most superior of the meningeal layers. The meninges are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater that surround the neuraxis. The meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Dura Mater.
meninges. plural of meninx; the three membranes covering the brain and spinal cord: the dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. adj., adj menin´geal. Meninges of the central nervous system. meninx. Etymology: Gk, meninx, membrane. the three membranes enclosing the brain and the spinal cord, comprising the dura mater, the pia mater, and the arachnoid membrane. The pia mater and the arachnoid can become inflamed by bacterial meningitis, causing serious complications that may be life-threatening.
meninges. 1. Three protective membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. From the inner to the outer membrane they are: the pia mater, arachnoid, and dura mater. 2. Three layers of membrane—the pia mater, arachnoid mater, and dura mater—that surround the brain and spinal cord. 
meninges. plural of meninx; the three membranes covering the brain and spinal cord: the dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. adj., adj menin´geal. Meninges of the central nervous system. Etymology: Gk, meninx, membrane. the three membranes enclosing the brain and the spinal cord, comprising the dura mater, the pia mater, and the arachnoid membrane. The pia mater and the arachnoid can become inflamed by bacterial meningitis, causing serious complications that may be life-threatening. meningeal, adj.
meninx. Etymology: Gk, meninx, membrane. the three membranes enclosing the brain and the spinal cord, comprising the dura mater, the pia mater, and the arachnoid membrane. The pia mater and the arachnoid can become inflamed by bacterial meningitis, causing serious complications that may be life-threatening. meningeal, adj.
Definition. Meninges (singular is meninx) is the collective term for the three membranes covering the brain and spinal cord. The meninges are composed of the dura mater (outer), the arachnoid (middle), and the pia mater (inner). In common usage, the membranes are often referred to as simply the dura, pia, and arachnoid. 
Meninges: The three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord (singular: meninx). The outside meninx is called the dura mater, and is the most resilient of the three. The center layer is the arachnoid membrane and the thin innermost layer is the pia mater. Inflammation of the meninges (meningitis) can occur due to bacterial infection. See also meningitis article. 
Meninges. The meninges (they are serous membranes) are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater — meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Below is a simplified illustration of the meninges around the brain. Dura Mater.
The meninges (/məˈnɪndʒiːz/ , singular: meninx (/ˈmiːnɪŋks/ or /ˈmɛnɪŋks/), from Ancient Greek: μῆνιγξ mēninx membrane, adjectival: meningeal /məˈnɪndʒəl/) are the membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system. The arachnoid is attached to the dura mater, while the pia mater is attached to the central nervous system tissue. When the dura mater and the arachnoid separate through injury or illness, the space between them is the subdural space.