Overview. Johannes Gutenberg's invention of the printing press is widely thought of as the origin of mass communication-- it marked Western culture's first viable method of disseminating ideas and information from a single source to a large and far-ranging audience. 
Johann Gutenberg’s invention of the printing press around 1448 had a significant impact on the spread of ideas in Europe and beyond. Printing technology traveled quickly across Europe and, at a time of great religious change, played a key role in the success of the Protestant Reformation. The invention of the printing press removed control of written material from the Catholic Church and made it difficult for the church to inhibit the spread of what it regarded as heretical ideas.
Economic Impact. The printing press had great effects on the economy. The printing press was an invention that led to the flourishment of trade throughout all of Europe due to increased demands.This was was a cause for a stronger economy. 
More people were able to read. The printing press had a direct impact on the loosening of the catholic church's power (since people could read the bible for themselves in their own language) and on the rise of modern science (since data could now more easily be recorded and transmitted. With the invention of the printing press, artists began to be informed by waves of new ideas-and new techniques-that deeply influenced their works. It also opened them up to communication with one another on far deeper levels.
The printing press was introduced to the West in the Holy Roman Empire by Johannes Gutenberg, around 1440. Gutenberg, a goldsmith by profession, devised a hand mould to create metal movable type, and adapted screw presses and other existing technologies, to create a printing system. The invention of the printing press led to a huge increase of printing activities across Europe within only a few decades. From a single print shop in Mainz, Germany, printing had spread to no less than around 270 cities in Central, Western and Eastern Europe by the end of the 15th century.
Read more about how thinking changed in the Renaissance. When Gutenberg invented the printing press in 1445, he forever changed the lives of people in Europe and, eventually, all over the world. Previously, bookmaking entailed copying all the words and illustrations by hand. 
As for the Renaissance, it began well before the invention of the printing press. Historians credit Petrarch with its origins in the mid-fourteenth century in Northern Italy. The renaissance, or rebirth, refers to a return to the humanism of the classical Greeks. 
The printing press drastically cut the cost of producing books and other printed materials. Prior to Gutenberg’s invention, the only way of making multiple copies of a book was to copy the text by hand, an laborious and intensely time-consuming occupation usually performed by monks. The invention of the printing press removed control of written material from the Catholic Church and made it difficult for the church to inhibit the spread of what it regarded as heretical ideas.
It is difficult to establish the impact of the printing press in its first century especially on a very conservative and religious society. The scribal culture revered the ancients because they were closer to uncorrupted knowledge, which was not yet corrupted through the process of scribal transmission (Dewar, 2000). 3 Responses to The effect of the printing press in the Renaissance in the 15th century, Italy. says: November 14, 2010 at 9:25 am. It is an interesting idea that the printing press, and mechanized production of books, was more of a symptom of the change in thought and scholarship than the ‘agent of change’ itself.
A century later, all that had changed. Like any other invention, the printing press came along and had an impact when the right conditions existed at the right time and place. In this case, that was Europe in the mid 1400's. 