Once hardened a thermoset resin cannot be reheated and melted to be shaped differently. Thermosetting resin may be contrasted with thermoplastic polymers which are commonly produced in pellets and shaped into their final product form by melting and pressing or injection molding. Thermoset materials are generally stronger than thermoplastic materials due to this three-dimensional network of bonds (cross-linking), and are also better suited to high-temperature applications up to the decomposition temperature.
thermosetting. adj. 1. (Chemistry) (of a material, esp a synthetic plastic or resin) hardening permanently after one application of heat and pressure. Thermosetting plastics, such as phenol-formaldehyde, cannot be remoulded. Compare thermoplastic. (ˈθɜr moʊˌsɛt ɪŋ). adj.
Thermosetting resins are normally used in the liquid state and solidify and harden on curing. With some resins it is possible to part-cure and then hold the resin in what is called the B-stage for the cure to be completed at a later time. The most frequently used thermosetting resins are: 
More about Thermoset Plastics. Click here to find Thermoset Plastics Manufacturers. Thermoset, or thermosetting, plastics are synthetic materials that strengthen during being heated, but cannot be successfully remolded or reheated after their initial heat-forming. This is in contrast to thermoplastics, which soften when heated and harden and strengthen after cooling. 
Though thermoset plastics and thermoplastics sound similar, they have very different properties and applications. Understanding the performance differences can help you make better sourcing decisions and improve your product designs. The primary physical difference is that thermoplastics can be remelted back into a liquid, whereas thermoset plastics always remain in a permanent solid state. Think of thermoplastics as butter – butter can be melted and cooled multiple times to form various shapes.
A thermosetting polymer (or plastic), also known as a thermoset, is a prepolymer material that cures irreversibly. The cure may be induced by heat, generally above 200 °C (392 °F), through a chemical reaction, or suitable irradiation. Thermoset materials are generally stronger than thermoplastic materials due to this three-dimensional network of bonds (cross-linking), and are also better suited to high-temperature applications up to the decomposition temperature.
Thermosetting polymers. Polymer with cross-links. Thermosetting polymers have different properties to thermosoftening polymers. Once moulded, they do not soften when heated and they cannot be reshaped. Vulcanised rubber is a thermoset thermoset: Material that becomes permanently hard after heating. used to make tyres. Polymers. Polymers polymer: A polymer is a large molecule formed from many identical smaller molecules (monomers). have properties which depend on the chemicals they are made from, and the conditions in which they are made.
A thermosetting plastic, also known as a thermoset, is polymer material that irreversibly cures. The cure may be done through heat (generally above 200 °C (392 °F)), through a chemical reaction (two-part epoxy, for example), or ir radiation such as electron beam processing. 