One response was the Fourteenth Amendment to the US Constitution, proposed on June 13, 1866, and ratified July 28, 1868. During the Civil War, the developing women's rights movement had largely put their agenda on hold, with most of the women's rights advocates supporting the Union efforts. Section 2, which dealt explicitly with voting rights, used the term male.. And women's rights advocates, especially those who were promoting woman suffrage or the granting of the vote to women, were outraged.
After the American Civil War, Stanton's commitment to female suffrage caused a schism in the women's rights movement when she, together with Susan B. Anthony, declined to support passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. Many leaders in the women's rights movement, including Lucy Stone, Elizabeth Blackwell, and Julia Ward Howe, strongly argued against Stanton's all or nothing position. By 1869, disagreement over ratification of the Fifteenth Amendment had given birth to two separate women's suffrage organizations.
On Election Day in 1920, millions of American women exercised their right to vote for the first time. It took activists and reformers nearly 100 years to win that right, and the campaign was not easy: Disagreements over strategy threatened to cripple the movement more than once. Lucy Burns Photograph. Suffrage leader Lucy Burns (1879-1966) was imprisoned at the Occoquan Workhouse in Virginia, probably in November 1917, after she and others were arrested for picketing the White House in support of a federal amendment granting women the right to vote.
The Fifteenth Amendment does not confer the right of suffrage upon any one. It prevents the States, or the United States, however, from giving preference, in this particular, to one citizen of the United States over another on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
The beginning of the fight for women’s suffrage in the United States, which predates Jeannette Rankin ’s entry into Congress by nearly 70 years, grew out of a larger women’s rights movement. 
The Fifteenth Amendment (Amendment XV) to the United States Constitution prohibits the federal and state governments from denying a citizen the right to vote based on that citizen's  race, color, or previous condition of servitude.. The right of citizens of the United States to vote shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of race, color, or previous condition of servitude. Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce this article by appropriate legislation.
In 1869, Cady Stanton and Anthony founded their own women’s rights party, the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA). The NWSA, considered a radical organization, did not support the 15th Amendment on the grounds that it enfranchised black men but not white or black women. The NWSA also initially discouraged the participation of men in leadership positions, and was a multi-issue organization, arguing for a variety of women’s rights.
Until the 1910s, most states disenfranchised women. The amendment was the culmination of the women's suffrage movement in the United States, which fought at both state and national levels to achieve the vote. It effectively overruled Minor v. Happersett, in which a unanimous Supreme Court ruled that the Fourteenth Amendment did not give women the right to vote. The women's suffrage movement took hold after the Civil War, during the Reconstruction Era (1865–1877). During this period, women's rights leaders advocated for inclusion of universal suffrage as a civil right in the Reconstruction amendments (the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments).
The Women's Rights Movement granted women more political rights like property rights. Whereas the Women's Suffrage Movement achieved the Nineteenth Amendment which gave women the right to vote. Analysis. By comparing the effects of the Women's Suffrage Movement to the effects of the Women's Rights Movement we can infer that the economic and social effects were similar however the political effects were different. Economically and socially both movements gained women more rights/privileges.
But on August 26, 1920, the 19th Amendment to the Constitution was finally ratified, enfranchising all American women and declaring for the first time that they, like men, deserve all the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Advertisement. Lucy Burns Photograph. Suffrage leader Lucy Burns (1879-1966) was imprisoned at the Occoquan Workhouse in Virginia, probably in November 1917, after she and others were arrested for picketing the White House in support of a federal amendment granting women the right to vote.