Propagation of an Electromagnetic Wave. Electromagnetic waves are waves which can travel through the vacuum of outer space. Mechanical waves, unlike electromagnetic waves, require the presence of a material medium in order to transport their energy from one location to another.
An electromagnetic wave (such as a radio wave) propagates outwards from the source (an antenna, perhaps) at the speed of light. What this means in practice is that the source has created oscillating electric and magnetic fields, perpendicular to each other, that travel away from the source.
Electromagnetic waves are formed by the vibrations of electric and magnetic fields. These fields are perpendicular to one another in the direction the wave is traveling. Once formed, this energy travels at the speed of light until further interaction with matter.
Electromagnetic Wave Equation. The wave equation for a plane electric wave traveling in the x direction in space is. with the same form applying to the magnetic field wave in a plane perpendicular the electric field. Both the electric field and the magnetic field are perpendicular to the direction of travel x. The symbol c represents the speed of light or other electromagnetic waves. The wave equation for electromagnetic waves arises from Maxwell's equations.
For electromagnetic waves E and B are always perpendicular to each other and perpendicular to the direction of propagation. The direction of propagation is the direction of E x B. If, for a wave traveling in the x-direction E = Ej, then B = Bk and j x k = i. Electromagnetic waves are transverse waves.
Transverse waves. In transverse waves, the oscillations (vibrations) are at right angles to the direction of travel and energy transfer. Light and other types of electromagnetic radiation are transverse waves. All types of electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed through a vacuum, such as through space.
For electromagnetic waves E and B are always perpendicular to each other and perpendicular to the direction of propagation. The direction of propagation is the direction of E x B. If, for a wave traveling in the x-direction E = E j, then B = B k and j x k = i. Electromagnetic waves are transverse waves.