A chemical reaction called hydration takes place between the water and cement, and concrete normally changes from a plastic to a solid state in about 2 hours. Concrete continues to gain strength as it cures. Heat of hydration-is the heat given off during the chemical reaction as the cement hydrates. Stages of hydration: Properties of Concrete  Range in proportions of materials used in concrete, by absolute volume.  Bars 1 and 3 represent rich mixes with small size aggregates.
Tests can be made to ensure the properties of concrete correspond to specifications for the application. The density of concrete varies, but is around 2,400 kilograms per cubic metre (150 lb/cu ft). The elasticity of concrete is relatively constant at low stress levels but starts decreasing at higher stress levels as matrix cracking develops. Concrete has a very low coefficient of thermal expansion, and as it matures concrete shrinks.
Concrete is an artificial conglomerate stone made essentially of Portland cement, water, and aggregates. When first mixed the water and cement constitute a paste which surrounds all the individual pieces of aggregate to make a plastic mixture. A chemical reaction called hydration takes place between the water and cement, and concrete normally changes from a plastic to a solid state in about 2 hours. Thereafter the concrete continues to gain strength as it cures.
Properties of Concrete  Concrete is an artificial conglomerate stone made essentially of Portland cement, water, and aggregates. Properties of Concrete While cement in one form or another has been around for centuries, the type we use was invented in 1824 in Britain. It was named Portland cement because it looked like the stone quarried on the Isle of Portland. Stages of hydration: Properties of Concrete  Range in proportions of materials used in concrete, by absolute volume.  Bars 1 and 3 represent rich mixes with small size
Therefore, the properties of a good cement must be investigated. Although desirable cement properties may vary depending on the type of construction, generally a good cement possesses following properties (which depend upon its chemical composition, thoroughness of burning and fineness of grinding). 1  Provides strength to masonry. 2  Stiffens or hardens early. 3  Possesses good plasticity. 4  An excellent building 5  ... Easi
A cement is a binder, a substance that sets and hardens and can bind other materials together. The word cement can be traced back to the Roman term opus caementicium, used to describe masonry resembling modern concrete that was made from crushed rock with burnt lime as binder. The most important uses of cement are as a component in the production of mortar in masonry, and of concrete, a combination of cement and an aggregate to form a strong building material.
All things being equal, concrete with a lower water-cement (cementitious) ratio makes a stronger concrete than that with a higher ratio. The total quantity of cementitious materials (portland cement, slag cement, pozzolans) can affect strength, water demand, shrinkage, abrasion resistance and density. The elasticity of concrete is relatively constant at low stress levels but starts decreasing at higher stress levels as matrix cracking develops. Concrete has a very low coefficient of thermal expansion, and as it matures concrete shrinks.
Properties of Cement Concrete. The cement concrete possesses the following important properties: 1  It possesses a high compressive strength. 2  It is a corrosion resistance material and atmospheric agent has no appreciable effect on it. 3  It hardens with age the process of hardening continues for a long time after the concrete has attained sufficient strength. 4  It is more economical ...
It's important to note that cement is only one component of three concrete properties and the term concrete is a mixture of the three. Concrete properties consist of three basic components: water, aggregate (rocks and sand), and portland cement. Cement, usually in powder form, acts as a binding agent when mixed with water and aggregates. 2. Water-Water is needed to form a chemical reaction with the cement (hydration) to form heat. This starts the drying and hardening process. Water is also used to provide workability with the concrete. The amount of water in the mix in pounds compared with the amount of cement is called the water/cement ratio.
The properties of such a concrete would be less than that of a wet concrete. The reaction of water with the cement in concrete is extremely important to its properties and reactions may continue for many years. This very important reaction will be discussed in detail in this section. Aggregates are chemically inert, solid bodies held together by the cement. Aggregates come in various shapes, sizes, and materials ranging from fine particles of sand to large, coarse rocks. Because cement is the most expensive ingredient in making concrete, it is desirable to minimize the amount of cement used.