Toggle: English / Spanish. The nail blanch test, also called the capillary nail refill test, is performed on the nail beds as an indicator of tissue perfusion (the amount of blood flow to tissue) and dehydration. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The capillary nail refill test is a quick test performed on the nail beds to monitor dehydration and the amount of blood flow to tissue. Pressure is applied to the nail bed until it turns white, indicating that the blood has been forced from the tissue. This is called blanching
Capillary nail refill test. The nail blanch test, also called the capillary nail refill test, is performed on the nail beds as an indicator of tissue perfusion (the amount of blood flow to tissue) and dehydration. Why the test is performed. Tissues need oxygen to survive. Oxygen is carried to various parts of the body by the blood (vascular) system. This test measures how well the vascular system works in your hands and feet -- the parts of your body that are farthest from the heart.
Pressure is applied to the nail bed until it turns white. This indicates that the blood has been forced from the tissue. It is called blanching. Once the tissue has blanched, pressure is removed. While the patient holds their hand above their heart, the health care provider measures the time it takes for blood to return to the tissue. Return of blood is indicated by the nail turning back to a pink color.
Capillary refill time (CRT) is defined as the time taken for color to return to an external capillary bed after pressure is applied to cause blanching. In newborn infants, capillary refill time can be measured by pressing on the sternum for five seconds with a finger or thumb, and noting the time needed for the color to return once the pressure is released. The upper normal limit for capillary refill in newborns is 3 seconds.
Definition. The capillary nail refill test is a quick test done on the nail beds. It is used to monitor dehydration and the amount of blood flow to tissue. Nail blanch test; Capillary refill time. Pressure is applied to the nail bed until it turns white. This indicates that the blood has been forced from the tissue.
Definition. The capillary nail refill test is a quick test done on the nail beds. It is used to monitor dehydration and the amount of blood flow to tissue. Why the test is performed. Tissues need oxygen to survive. Oxygen is carried to various parts of the body by the blood (vascular) system. This test measures how well the vascular system works in your hands and feet -- the parts of your body that are farthest from the heart.
Nail blanch test; Capillary refill time. If there is good blood flow to the nail bed, a pink color should return in less than 2 seconds after pressure is removed. Blanch times that are greater than 2 seconds may indicate: 1  Dehydration. ( 2 PVD). 
The capillary nail refill test is a quick test done on the nail beds. It is used to monitor dehydration and the amount of blood flow to tissue. Reference from A.D.A.M. It is called blanching. Once the tissue has blanched, pressure is removed. While the patient holds their hand above their heart, the health care provider measures the time it takes for blood to return to the tissue. Return of blood is indicated by the nail turning back to a pink color.
Normal capillary refill time is usually less than 2 seconds. In newborn infants, capillary refill time can be measured by pressing on the sternum for five seconds with a finger or thumb, and noting the time needed for the color to return once the pressure is released. The upper normal limit for capillary refill in newborns is 3 seconds.