The Cenozoic Era is divided into three periods: 1  Paleogene Period (65-23 million years ago), which consists of the Paleocene, Eocene and Oligocene epochs); 2  Neogene Period (23-2.6 million years ago), which includes the Miocene and Pliocene epochs); The Cenozoic Era, which began about 65 million years ago and continues into the present, is the third documented era in the history of Earth. The current locations of the continents and their modern-day inhabitants, including humans, can be traced to this period.
Cen·o·zo·ic. The most recent era of geologic time, from about 65 million years ago to the present. The Cenozoic Era is characterized by the formation of modern continents and the diversification of mammals and plants. See Chart at geologic time. Ce•no•zo•ic. 1. noting or pertaining to the present era, beginning 65 million years ago, characterized by the ascendancy of mammals. See geologic time. 2. the Cenozoic Era or group of systems.
Definition of CENOZOIC for Kids. : an era of geological history lasting from 70 million years ago to the present time in which there has been a rapid evolution of mammals and birds and of flowering plants. 
Of, relating to, or being the most recent era of geologic time, from about 66 million years ago to the present. The Cenozoic Era includes the Tertiary Period and the Quaternary Period and is characterized by the formation of modern continents, glaciation, and the diversification of mammals, birds, and plants. See Table at geologic time. Ce•no•zo•ic. 1. noting or pertaining to the present era, beginning 65 million years ago, characterized by the ascendancy of mammals. See geologic time. 2. the Cenozoic Era or group of systems.
Flowering plants or angiosperms were widespread in the Cenozoic Era. This was beneficial to insects, many of which evolved symbiotic relationships with flowering plants. The Cenozoic includes the period that began roughly 65 million years ago to the present. Historically, the Era has been divided into two periods: the Tertiary and the Quaternary.
The Age Of Mammals Begins. The Tertiary Period marks the beginning of the Cenozoic Era. It began 65 million years ago and lasted more than 63 million years, until 1.8 million years ago. The Tertiary is made up of 5 epochs 1  : The Paleocene Epoch - 65 to 54 million years ago. 2  The Eocene Epoch - 54 to 38 million years ago. The Tertiary Period marks the beginning of the Cenozoic Era. It began 65 million years ago and lasted more than 63 million years, until 1.8 million years ago. The Tertiary is made up of 5 epochs :
The Cenozoic Era. The Cenozoic Era is the most recent of the three major subdivisions of animal history. The other two are the Mesozoic and Paleozoic Eras. The Cenozoic spans only about 65 million years, from the end of the Cretaceous Period and the extinction of non-avian dinosaurs to the present. The Cenozoic (65.5 million years ago to present) is divided into three periods: the Paleogene (65.5 to 23.03 million years ago), Neogene (23.03 to 2.6 million years ago) and the Quaternary (2.6 million years ago to present).
The Cenozoic period began about 65 million years ago with the extinction of the dinosaurs and continues through the present. The Cenozoic is divided into just two time periods: the Tertiary, and the Quaternary. We can only summarize the many events of these periods. 
Cenozoic Era. The Cenozoic Era began 65 million years ago with an asteroid impact that killed off a majority of the dinosaurs and ends at the present day. The Cenozoic is commonly divided into three periods: 1  Paleogene (65.5 to 23.03 million years ago). 2  Neogene (23.03 to 2.6 million years ago). 