Recombinant DNA and genetic techniques. Recombinant DNA (or rDNA) is made by combining DNA from two or more sources. In practice, the process often involves combining the DNA of different organisms. The process depends on the ability to cut and re-join DNA molecules at points which are identified by specific sequences of nucleotide bases called restriction sites.
True, recombinant DNA. T/F Scientists can change DNA sequences. Short sequences of DNA made in the laboratory can be joined to the DNA molecule of an organism. DNA from one organism can be attached to the DNA of another organism. These DNA molecules are called _________________ because combining recombine DNA from different sources makes them. 
A transgenic, or genetically modified, organism is one that has been altered through recombinant DNA technology, which involves either the combining of DNA from different genomes or the insertion of foreign DNA into a genome. 
Recombinant DNA is DNA that has been created artificially. DNA from two or more sources is incorporated into a single recombinant molecule. Plasmids are molecules of DNA that are found in bacteria separate from the bacterial chromosome. 1  are small (a few thousand base pairs). 2  usually carry only one or a few genes. 3  are circular. 4  have a single origin of replication.
Construction of recombinant DNA, in which a foreign DNA fragment is inserted into a plasmid vector. In this example, the gene indicated by the white color is inactivated upon insertion of the foreign DNA fragment. Recombinant DNA is the general name for a piece of DNA that has been created by the combination of at least two strands. Recombinant DNA molecules are sometimes called chimeric DNA, because they can be made of material from two different species, like the mythical chimera
formed changes. This leads to either a different protein, or an inactive protein. Now that we know what DNA is, this is where the recombinant comes in. Recombinant DNA is the general name for taking a piece of one DNA, and and combining it with another strand of DNA. Thus, the name recombinant! Recombinant DNA is also sometimes referred to as chimera.. By combining two or more different strands of DNA, scientists are able to create a new strand of DNA. The most common recombinant process involves combining the DNA of two different organisms. DNA is deoxyribose. The four nitrogen bases are the same for all organisms. The. sequence and number of bases is what creates diversity. DNA does not. actually make the organism, it only makes proteins. The DNA is transcribed. into mRNA and mRNA is translated into protein, and the protein then forms the. organism.
The capability to join data sets is a useful and easy way to combine data from two data sources. For example, you can combine data from two XML files, or combine data from a text file with data from a database table. Before joining data sets, you must create the individual data sets. For example, an application system generates monthly transaction data and the data for each month is saved in a separate CSV file, or a system saves data in different formats, such as XML and CSV. In BIRT Report Designer, you can combine data from multiple data sources by creating a joint data set.
It is also possible to manipulate DNA artiﬁ-cially to combine genes from two different sources, even from vertebrates to bacteria. Artiﬁcial genemanipulation is known as genetic engineering, and the term biotechnology usually means the indus-trial use of genetically engineered microorganisms. 
To make recombinant DNA, scientists first extract the DNA they want to mix. The DNA can come from completely different organisms, including bacteria, plants, animals, algae or fungi. Using specialized lab techniques, scientists cut the pieces of DNA they want and paste them together to make an entirely new mix of DNA, called recombinant DNA, or rDNA (See References 1). DNA from different sources can be mixed to make disease-resistant crops, new vaccines, cures for genetic diseases, and proteins to use in the treatment of conditions such as sickle cell anemia, diabetes, certain cancers and other diseases (See References 2).