Possessive nouns are nouns that show ownership or possession. Normally these words would be a singular or plural noun, but in the possessive form they are used as adjectives to modify another a noun or pronoun. The cat’s fur is a matted mess. Here the word “cat’s” is a possessive noun. It is letting you know that the noun “fur” belongs to the cat. 
A plural possessive noun represents more than one thing or person, place, or thing and shows ownership. Let’s look at how you make a noun plural and possessive and the rules that apply to their uses. 1 To make a singular noun possessive, add an apostrophe and an “s.” This applies to plural nouns that do not end with an “s”, like children-children’s and men-men’s. 2  When making plural possessive nouns, add only an apostrophe if the noun ends with an “s”, like buses’ and countries’
A singular noun is a word for one person, place, or thing.   A singular possessive noun is a noun that shows  something in the sentence belongs to that noun.    A … plural noun is a word for two or more people, places, or things.   A plural possessive noun is a noun that show  something in the sentence belongs to that noun. A singular noun is a word for one person, place, or thing. A plural noun is a word for two or more people, places, or things. A possessive noun is a noun indicating ownership or possession.
An exception to this rule is the possessive of plural nouns that do not end in s.. These are formed by adding an apostrophe and an s to the noun: The women's dressing room was very small. When the singular and plural of a noun both end in an s, the possessive for both is formed by adding an apostrophe only: The English word “noun” comes from the Latin nomen, meaning “name.” We use nouns to name something, that is, a person, animal, object, place, action, or abstract idea, such as an event or quality (boy, koala, block, farm, invasion, or kindness).
Most singular nouns are made possessive by adding an apostrophe and an s at the end of them: Alice had one kitten. When it was playing in the kitchen, the kitten's toy went under the refrigerator. Plural possessives indicate when there is more than one of a noun and show ownership of something. The English word “noun” comes from the Latin nomen, meaning “name.” We use nouns to name something, that is, a person, animal, object, place, action, or abstract idea, such as an event or quality (boy, koala, block, farm, invasion, or kindness).
Perhaps you are simply wondering what a plural possessive is; let's start there. When there is more than one of a noun, it is plural. The majority of nouns are made plural by adding an s to the end, though as with so many things in the English language, there are exceptions (e.g., tooth and teeth). A noun is possessive when it shows ownership or possession of something. The English word “noun” comes from the Latin nomen, meaning “name.” We use nouns to name something, that is, a person, animal, object, place, action, or abstract idea, such as an event or quality (boy, koala, block, farm, invasion, or kindness).
Yes, nouns may be singular, plural, or possessive.    A singular noun is a word for one person, place, or thing.  Examples:    an apple  a boy  a chair  a dre … am   A plural noun is a word for two or more people, places, or things.    A possessive noun is a noun indicat … ing ownership,  possession, origin, or purpose.     Singular possessive nouns are formed by adding an apostrophe s  ('s) to the end of the word. A singular noun is a word for one person, place, or thing. A plural noun is a word for two or more people, places, or things. A possessive noun is a noun indicating ownership or possession.