What age do I get my free bus pass. Well I know that I now have to wait until I am 65 plus to get my state pension, free bus pass and heating allowance. That is bad enough but I just found out that some people do get a free bus pass at age 60, ie some areas like Merseyside. Now I am very angry. This is so unfair. Hi Joyce – aren’t you lucky living in Wales, you only have to wait until you reach age 60 to get a bus pass. If you move to England you’d have to wait about 6 years on top of that. Born in wales the yr 1957,can you tell me what age I will get my bus pass.
You reached State Pension age on 1 January 2004. You qualify for a bus pass on the same date as you qualify for State Pension. I’ve put a date of birth of 1 Jan 1944 in and get the following response: Your State Pension age was 60 years. Hi Joyce – aren’t you lucky living in Wales, you only have to wait until you reach age 60 to get a bus pass. If you move to England you’d have to wait about 6 years on top of that. Born in wales the yr 1957,can you tell me what age I will get my bus pass.
When will I get my bus pass? From 6th April 2010, the age of eligibility for concessionary travel for women became pension age and for men, the pensionable age of a woman born on the same day. The state pension age for women is rising by five years over a period of ten years. English National Concessionary Travel Scheme Change in the age of eligibility There is a ready reckoner tool which enables people affected by the pension age changes to see at what age they become eligible for their state pension and associated benefits.
(We appreciate that for many the long wait for a bus pass is no joke-especially those who having reached 60 discover they still have 6 years to wait in England.). In London and Merseyside there are passes available from age 60 – more details from our ‘Where to Apply for a Bus Pass’ page. Hi Joyce – aren’t you lucky living in Wales, you only have to wait until you reach age 60 to get a bus pass. If you move to England you’d have to wait about 6 years on top of that. Born in wales the yr 1957,can you tell me what age I will get my bus pass.
National travel pass for residents of Greater Manchester. The Concessionary Bus Travel Act states that everyone of state pensionable age and over in England can get free off-peak travel on all local buses anywhere in England. * From 6 April 2010 the eligibility age for the National Concessionary Travel Pass (NCTP) changed to mirror the state pension age. This means the earliest date on which you can get your Pass will depend on when you were born and, if you were born on or after 6 April 1950, this date will be later than your 60th birthday. For men the eligible age is the pensionable age of a woman born on the same day. 
In the UK you qualify for a free bus pass at retirement age, which is around 65 but varies depending on your current age and gender. 1 Buying a Bus Pass in Paris Before you travel to Europe, you will have to decide what mode of transportation you will use to get around when at your travel destination.
The age at which you become eligible for a English National Concession bus pass is changing. From 6th April 2010, the age of eligibility for concessionary travel for women will be pension age and for men it will be the pensionable age of a woman born on the same day.
The earliest age for men and women to get bus passes will therefore rise gradually, from 60 on 5 April 2010 to 65 on 6 April 2020. The Government decided that this would be the fairest method, rather than introduce a one-off rise which would leave those currently close to retirement age facing a full five-year delay. English National Concessionary Travel Scheme Change in the age of eligibility There is a ready reckoner tool which enables people affected by the pension age changes to see at what age they become eligible for their state pension and associated benefits.
Concessionary fares. If you live in England and are of retirement age or an eligible disabled person, you are entitled to an English National Concessionary Bus Pass. Essex residents who are applying for an older persons or disabled persons bus pass for the first time may apply to Essex County Council.
The earliest age for men and women to get bus passes will therefore rise gradually, from 60 on 5 April 2010 to 65 on 5 April 2020.The Government decided that this would be the fairest method, rather than introduce a one-off rise which would leave those currently close to retirement age facing a full five-year delay. From 6th April 2010, the age of eligibility for concessionary travel for women will be pension age and for men it will be the pensionable age of a woman born on the same day.