The NIGP Code is structured as follows: 3-Digit Class Code The 3-Digit class Code has a brief general description. This level contains 219 Commodity (Product) Classes and 55 Service Classes totaling 274 Classes. 5-Digit Class-Item Code The 5-Digit class-item Code is an expanded version of the 3-Digit class Code.
The NIGP Commodity/Services Code is an acronym for the National Institute of Governmental Purchasings' Commodity/Services Code. The NIGP Code is a coding taxonomy used primarily to classify products and services procured by state and local governments in North America. 5-Digit Class-Item Code The 5-Digit class-item Code is an expanded version of the 3-Digit class Code.
Online Access to the National Institute of Government Purchasing (NIGP) Commodity Codes. There are thousands of goods and services that carry NIGP Codes. Therefore, you should scroll through the listing, NIGP Commodity Codes, to identify all goods and services offered by your company. 
Announcement. The NIGP Commodity/Services Code (Code) consistently grows and continues to provide real value to the procurement community. Periscope is pleased to announce our latest addition to the Code. A new Class has been created for Higher Education–Travel. Standardize product/service descriptions and catalog content, make searches easier and more effective, and simplify product/service comparisons.
A National Institute of Governmental Purchasing (NIGP) code is a code that defines the products/services that a vendor provides. Vendors automatically receive solicitations based on the NIGP codes that they register for in SAePS. 
Get the Code details. The NIGP Commodity/Services Code is the solution that, when coupled with your procurement software package, will bring the highest levels of order and efficiency to your overall procurement program. The Code offers you an unparalleled coding structure for standardizing purchasing. The NIGP Code provides: 1  A mechanism to group similar requisitions together for buyer action. 2  A product/service grouping function for ordering from blankets and contracts. 3  A process for facilitating workflow based on commodity. 4  A standardization tool for product/service descriptions on the requisition.
Exempt NIGP Codes. The State Purchasing Division has established a list of goods and services that are either exempt from the State Purchasing Act or for which the competitive bid requirements have been waived. Click below for the current list of exempt NIGP codes. NIGP Key Word Search. Use the key word search tool below to search for the right NIGP code by key word. Simply enter one or more key words or phrases and click NIGP SEARCH. The search will display a list of three-digit categories and five-digit codes from which to select. NIGP ListThe NIGP list is a complete list of codes found in the Georgia Procurement Registry. It looks like your browser does not have JavaScript enabl
NIGP Commodity Codes. The NIGP Code, a product of the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing, is copyrighted material and cannot be downloaded or used in any way other than for the State of New Jersey Vendor Registration Program without a license from Periscope Holdings, Inc, in Austin, Texas.
The Office of Contracting and Procurement (OCP) is pleased to provide online access to the National Institute of Government Purchasing (NIGP) 18th Edition Commodity/Services Code. The NIGP commodity codes have been expanded from a 5-digit to a 7-digit class-item-group format. 
NIGP responded by developing the NIGP Commodity/Services Code to bring efficiency to automated purchasing, and the Code has since been adopted by more than 1,400 government users. The Code continues to expand, due largely to ongoing user input. The NIGP Code provides: 1  A mechanism to group similar requisitions together for buyer action. 2  A product/service grouping function for ordering from blankets and contracts. 3  A process for facilitating workflow based on commodity. 4  A standardization tool for product/service descriptions on the requisition.