1. A tissue composed of fibers capable of contracting to effect bodily movement. 2. A contractile organ consisting of a special bundle of muscle tissue, which moves a particular bone, part, or substance of the body: the heart muscle; the muscles of the arm. 3. Muscular strength: enough muscle to be a high jumper. antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. eye muscle, ocular muscle-one of the small muscles of the eye that serve to rotate the eyeball.
The fibers in a pinnate muscle are typically shorter than those of a fusiform muscle. The arrangement of pinnate muscle fibers can be single or double, as in muscles of the forearm, or multipinnate, as in the gluteus maximus or deltoid (figure 2.1). 
muscle. n. 1. (Anatomy) a tissue composed of bundles of elongated cells capable of contraction and relaxation to produce movement in an organ or part. 2. (Anatomy) an organ composed of muscle tissue. 3. strength or force. antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. eye muscle, ocular muscle-one of the small muscles of the eye that serve to rotate the eyeball.
Muscles may also be described by the direction that the muscle fibres run in. 1  Fusiform muscles have fibres that run parallel to the length of the muscle, and are spindle-shaped. 2  For example, the pronator teres muscle of the forearm. The origin of a muscle is the bone, typically proximal, which has greater mass and is more stable during a contraction than a muscle's insertion. For example, with the latissimus dorsi muscle, the origin site is the torso, and the insertion is the arm.
Fusiform muscle. Definition. noun. A muscle that has a shape of spindle, which is being wider in the middle and narrowing towards both ends. Supplement. Example of fusiform muscle is the biceps brachii. Fusiform muscles are arranged in a strap-like fashion to provide the greatest degree of shortening, thus, enabling the muscle to produce quick and wide range of motion. However, compared with penniform muscle, they are not a very powerful type of muscle
1. a tissue composed of elongated cells, the contraction of which produces movement in the body. 2. a specific bundle of such tissue. 3. muscular strength; brawn. 4. power or force, esp. of a coercive nature: They put muscle into their policy and sent the marines. antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. eye muscle, ocular muscle-one of the small muscles of the eye that serve to rotate the eyeball.
Fusiform. Definition. adjective. Spindle-shaped, that is being wide in the middle while narrowing or tapering at both ends. Supplement. Word origin: Latin fūsus, spindle + –form. Related terms: 1  Fusiform layer. 2  Fusiform muscle. 3  Fusiform aneurysm. 4  Fusiform cataract
fusiform muscle. Definitions: 1. a muscle that has a fleshy belly, tapering at either extremity. Synonyms: musculus fusiformis, spindle-shaped muscle. The definition information for fusiform muscle is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Muscle architecture is the physical arrangement of muscle fibers at the macroscopic level that determines a muscle’s mechanical function. There are several different muscle architecture types including: parallel, pennate and hydrostats. Unipennate muscles are those where the muscle fibers are oriented at one fiber angle to the force-generating axis and are all on the same side of a tendon. The pennation angle in unipennate muscles has been measured at a variety of resting length and typically varies from 0° to 30°.