If you have experience with SQL Server, you may have heard the terms MDF, NDF and LDF already. Those are the commonly used file name extensions in SQL Server for specify the Primary Data files, Secondary data files and Log files respectively.
An NDF file is a user defined secondary database file of Microsoft SQL Server with an extension .ndf, which store user data. Moreover, when the size of the database file growing automatically from its specified size, you can use .ndf file for extra storage and the .ndf file could be stored on a separate disk drive.
NDF files are Database Files primarily associated with NimbleScan NimbleGen Design File (NimbleGen Systems Inc.). NDF files are also associated with ProWORX Nxt Short Comment (Schneider Electric), NeoPlanet Browser File, Channel Data File, SQL Server Secondary Data File (Microsoft Corporation) and FileViewPro. Additional types of files may also be using the NDF file extension.
Various data file type. The ndf file extension is associated with Microsoft SQL Server, a relational database server for Microsoft Windows. The * .ndf files are used for secondary data files that make up all the data files, other than the primary data file.
Also from file extension NDF-Microsoft SQL Server secondary data file. See Understanding Files and Filegroups. Secondary data files are optional, are user-defined, and store user data. Secondary files can be used to spread data across multiple disks by putting each file on a different disk drive.
NDF® is a heavy metal & chemical detoxifier that safely removes toxic heavy metals, chemicals, and pesticides while balancing beneficial nutrient and mineral levels. It is a gentle detoxifying formula for individuals with a normal constitution.
Microsoft SQL Server secondary data file. The ndf file extension is used for Microsoft SQL Server secondary data files. The secondary data file is created by Microsoft SQL Server, when the primary data file (mdf file) is full of data and other data cannot be stored in it.