Even if she wasn't in heat, she can still get pregnant. I highly recommend you spay and neuter your dogs because it is NOT healthy to breed the daughter with the father. Member 930032 answered on 9/25/11. Actually, father/daughter or mother/son matings often turn out fine. It really depends on the dogs involved, if they are carriers for any genetic diseases or not. What is more worrying is that she is only 7 months old... she might not be mature enough to carry and then care for her pups.
/ 0. There are many breeders out there that have done, and will do this. It sounds creepy, but from a reputable breeder, it is not. A breeder would do this only to better the breed, and if the daughter was the epitome of the breed, then the breeder might consider. Of course, all of the health tests would need to be done to ensure health and quality. In the dachshund, for example, it is called dapple.. If you breed together two dogs each with a merle coat pattern you stand a good chance of getting puppies that deaf, blind or both. (3) Thinking there are only dominant and recessive genes.
Yes she can breed with her father, but that doesn't mean it's something you should let happen. When a female dog comes into heat, she doesn't care who breeds her and is the sa … me with the male when a bitch is in heat. A lot of folks think a brother and sister or Father & daughter, etc. will never breed. This is completely false. As long as one bitch is in heat and the male smells this, they will breed. Confidence votes 9.7K. It all depends on both dog's genes. You may end up with perfectly normal pups, but because the parents will be so closely related, there is an increased chance of ending up with congenital defects in the pups as a result of inbreeding.
Inbreeding is the mating together of closely related dogs, for example mother/son, father/daughter and sibling/sibling matings. For breeders, it is a useful way of fixing traits in a breed—the pedigrees of some exhibition dogs show that many of their forebears are closely related. 
Potential Health Problems. The thought of a male dog mating with his offspring might be cringe-inducing and weird to you, but the problems go deeper than that. Inbreeding in dogs can often lead to puppies with medical problems such as birth defects.
Outcross Breeding. Outcross breeding is much easier to explain so we will start here. Outcross breeding is when you take a male and female dog of the same breed but have no relatives that are the same. It is similar to putting two dogs of different breeds together as they do not have any relatives. When you mix breeds or outcross in the same breed of dogs, the puppies could have three different looks. 
· just now. Report Abuse. I breed shepherds, and when a female is in heat it is a full time job making sure she doesn't get pregnant. I never breed father to daughter, mother to son, or siblings, and I never breed a male or female that isn't over 2 years of age.
If males get an X with a version of a gene that causes a disease from their mom, they don’t have a chance to get a working gene from their dad. It takes just one bad gene on their single X chromosome to cause problems for male dogs (and people). They will get whatever disease mom passes to them. 
Canines don't acknowledge family ties in ways that are typical to many people. They often view their family members as they do any other dogs, and they readily breed with their kin as a result. Male dogs, for example, have no hesitation in mating with their daughters. This doesn't apply only to father and daughter dogs. When boy dogs reach sexual maturity, they frequently mate with their siblings. The thought of a male dog mating with his offspring might be cringe-inducing and weird to you, but the problems go deeper than that. Inbreeding in dogs can often lead to puppies with medical problems such as birth defects.