DEFINITION of 'Marginal Revenue-MR'. The increase in revenue that results from the sale of one additional unit of output. Marginal revenue is calculated by dividing the change in total revenue by the change in output quantity.
For example, a company producing brooms has a total revenue of $0, when it doesn't produce any output. The revenue it sees from producing its first broom is $15, bringing marginal revenue to $15 ($15 in total revenue/1 unit of product). If the revenue from the second broom is $10, the marginal revenue gained by producing the second broom is $10 (change in total revenue: $25-$15/1 additional unit).
Marginal revenue is the slope of the total revenue curve and is one of two revenue concepts derived from total revenue. The other is average revenue. To maximize profit, a firm equates marginal revenue and marginal cost. Marginal revenue is the extra revenue generated when a firm sells one more unit of output.
The change in total cost that comes from making or producing one additional item. The purpose of analyzing marginal cost is to determine at what point an organization can achieve economies of scale. The calculation is most often used among manufacturers as a means of isolating an optimum production level.
Marginal revenue is calculated by dividing the change in total revenue by the change in production output quantity or the change in quantity sold. Take, for example, a hockey stick manufacturer. The manufacturer will have no revenue when it doesn't produce any output or hockey sticks for a total revenue of $0.
The marginal cost of the second unit is the difference between the total cost of the second unit and total cost of the first unit. The marginal cost of the 5th unit is $5. It is the difference between the total cost of the 6th unit and the total cost of the, 5th unit and so forth.
You should not increase production when the marginal cost exceeds marginal revenue. Marginal cost is the additional costs of producing one more unit. Costs are not always constant; in fact, there are usually not. For example, the more precious metal you and others use in production, the less of a supply there is of it.
Marginal revenue is the change in total revenue resulting from producing one more unit of output-one more unit of a good or service. Marginal revenue is calculated by figuring out the difference between total revenues produced before the additional unit of output and after you increase production by one unit.