The rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) which is continuous with the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope plays an important role in the sorting of proteins destined for various other locations in the cell, like the Golgi apparatus, the lysosomes and the plasma membrane. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) - smooth and rough. The rough kind is covered with ribosomes on its outer surface and is involved in protein processing and sorting. The smooth ER is not associated with ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism. See Figure 10.1.
Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. About 50% of the total membrane surface in an animal cell is provided by endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membrane-enclosed tubules and sacs, called cisternae. This network extends from the nuclear envelope throughout the cytoplasm (remember that the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope is continuous with the rough endoplasmic reticulum). There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) - smooth and rough. The rough kind is covered with ribosomes on its outer surface and is involved in protein processing and sorting. The smooth ER is not associated with ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism. See Figure 10.1.
The surface of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (often abbreviated RER or Rough ER) (also called ergastoplasm) is studded with protein-manufacturing ribosomes giving it a rough appearance (hence its name). The binding site of the ribosome on the rough endoplasmic reticulum is the translocon. Although there is no continuous membrane between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus, membrane-bound vesicles shuttle proteins between these two compartments. Vesicles are surrounded by coating proteins called COPI and COPII.
The general structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membranes called cisternae. These sac-like structures are held together by the cytoskeleton. The phospholipid membrane encloses a space, the cisternal space (or lumen), which is continuous with the perinuclear space but separate from the cytosol. Although there is no continuous membrane between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus, membrane-bound vesicles shuttle proteins between these two compartments. Vesicles are surrounded by coating proteins called COPI and COPII.
There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum, rough and smooth. The outer (cytosolic) face of the rough endoplasmic reticulum is studded with ribosomes that are the sites of protein synthesis. The rough endoplasmic reticulum is especially prominent in cells such as hepatocytes. Although there is no continuous membrane between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus, membrane-bound vesicles shuttle proteins between these two compartments. Vesicles are surrounded by coating proteins called COPI and COPII.
Rough ER (RER) is involved in some protein production, protein folding, quality control and despatch. It is called ‘rough’ because it is studded with ribosomes. Smooth E R (SER) is associated with the production and metabolism of fats and steroid hormones. CELLS NEED THE ROUGH AND THE SMOOTH. Think of a cell as a “multitude of membranes” we said in an earlier section. This statement certainly applies to the endoplasmic reticulum an organelle found in eukaryotic cells. About 50% of the total membrane surface in an animal cell is provided by endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
Photo by: Lemonade. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a series of interconnected membranes or flattened sacs adjacent and connected to the nuclear membrane. The ER comes in two different morphological forms: smooth endoplasmic reticulum (sER) and rough endoplasmic reticulum (rER). 
The process of translation. Translation takes place on the ribosomes in the cytoplasm, or found on the rough Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER): 1  the ribosomes are the sites of protein synthesis. 2  the mRNA strand attaches to a ribosome. 3  tRNA molecules [molecules: a collection of two or more atoms held together by chemical bonds. 4  each mRNA codon codes for a specific amino acid. 5  the .... After translation, the protein passes into the channels of the rough endoplasmic reticulum (ER) for transportation. The protein is then passed from the rough ER to the Golgi apparatus inside tiny fluid-filled sacs, called vesicles.