Definition. The human leukocyte antigen test, also known as HLA, is a test that detects antigens (genetic markers) on white blood cells. There are four types of human leukocyte antigens: HLA-A, HLA-B, HLA-C, and HLA-D. Description. Human leukocyte antigen (leukocyte is the name for white blood cell, while antigen refers to a genetic marker) is a substance that is located on the surface of white blood cells. This substance plays an important role in the body's immune response.
Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing is used to match you with a donor for your bone marrow or cord blood transplant. This is not the same as ABO blood typing. HLA is a protein – or marker – found on most cells in your body. Your immune system uses HLA markers to know which cells belong in your body and which do not. Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) is a protein – or marker – found on most cells in your body and is used to match you with a donor for your bone marrow or cord blood transplant. The best transplant outcome happens when a patient’s HLA and the donor’s HLA closely match.
HLA Testing. HLA Testing. LabCorp is a leading provider of histocompatibility (human leukocyte antigen, or HLA) testing for bone marrow, other transplant-related services, and disease association testing. LabCorp performs testing for either HLA class I or HLA class II using highly robust molecular methods. 
Definition. The human leukocyte antigen (HLA) test, also known as HLA typing or tissue typing, identifies antigens on the white blood cells (WBCs) that determine tissue compatibility for organ transplantation (that is, histocompatibility testing). Human leukocyte antigen testing is performed to reduce the probability of both rejection and GVHD. Typing is also used along with blood typing and DNA tests to determine the parentage (that is, for patern
HLA Typing/Matching. One of the tests you will have before you go on the waiting list is HLA typing, also called tissue typing. This test identifies certain proteins in your blood called antigens. Antigens are markers on the cells in your body, which help your body, tell the difference between self and non-self. 
HLA testing is performed and test results are kept on file to compare with results from those people who are seeking a match. 1  HLA antibody screening of recipients-HLA antibody testing is performed on the recipient to determine if there are any antibodies present that would target the donated organ or tissue. It identifies the major HLA genes a person has inherited and the corresponding antigens (proteins) that are present on the surface of their cells. These antigens help the body's immune system distinguish which cells are self and which are foreign or non-self..
The HLA test is used to provide evidence of tissue compatibility typing of tissue recipients and donors. It is also an aid in genetic counseling and in paternity testing. Description. Human leukocyte antigen (leukocyte is the name for white blood cell, while antigen refers to a genetic marker) is a substance that is located on the surface of white blood cells. This substance plays an important role in the body's immune response.
Human leukocyte antigen B27 (HLA-B27) is a blood test that identifies a specific protein located on the surface of your white blood cells called human leukocyte antigen B27. Although most HLAs protect the body from harm, HLA-B27 is a specific type of protein that contributes to immune system dysfunction. The presence of HLA-B27 on your white blood cells can cause your immune system to attack the healthy cells that contain it.
Sometimes HLA gene testing is used to aid in the diagnosis of an autoimmune disease. The HLA system is one of the mechanisms involved in the body's recognition of self and non-self antigens and the immune response to foreign substances. It identifies the major HLA genes a person has inherited and the corresponding antigens (proteins) that are present on the surface of their cells. These antigens help the body's immune system distinguish which cells are self and which are foreign or non-self..