2. Employment Ban. An employment ban, labour ban, work permit ban are all different terms for the same thing i.e. you are not allowed to work in the UAE for a certain period of time. 1  An employment ban is usually for 6 months, 1 year, or permanent (see additional explanations further down). UAE Labour Law new labour ban rules in Dubai and UAE-January 2011. 1  From Saturday 01 January 2011, the minimum period of employment for which a labour ban is not imposed is 2 years (previously was 3 years apparently).
How I Check My Status Ban In Uae. uae immigration ban query United Arab Emirates expat forum: Immigration ban is imposed if you have breached the law i.e. if you your query, I am afraid there is no way you can check your status online. Now I got a better offer from another. VISA Cancelleation From Outside UAE Dubai Visa: Please let me know how can I cancel my UAE residence visa as I am outside UAE. your residency visa and more than likely placed a ban on you which. enter your work permit number to check the status, same for visa.
If yes, your visa is cancelled and you are blacklisted, means you can't enter the UAE. In case your company didn't take any action yet, you have to send your passport via courier along with a visa cancellation request. 
Best Answer: There are multiple options to check the ban. 1) Convince your cooleague or anybody to go to nearest Immigration Office (DNRD) in Dubai alongwith your passport copy and request to get PERSON DETAILS or بيانات الشخصي. In that report, you can check your ban status whether there is Immigration ban or not. It will cost Dhs.130.
Dear sir, My passport number is F5773943, how can i check its ban or not. bcaz 2007 i worked in sharjah, out pass get and return to india. 
1 A six month ban is automatically imposed in most other cases if an employee has not completed two years of service (and sometimes even if they have). 2  A six month ban can be lifted if the employee: 3  moves to another job or company but with the same sponsor. UAE Labour Law new labour ban rules in Dubai and UAE-January 2011. 1  From Saturday 01 January 2011, the minimum period of employment for which a labour ban is not imposed is 2 years (previously was 3 years apparently).
A 6 month labour ban does not affect permission to visit the UAE-you can still enter on a visit visa or tourist visa. If you have a 1 year labor ban you might also be restricted from visiting the UAE-check with the immigration department first. 
How do you check uae ban: The UAE does not have a 6 month Emigration ban it does however have a mandatory 6 month Labour ban. How can you check your employment visa status for. How do I find out if I’ve been banned from re: I resigned from my job in Abu Dhabi last December,¦ I’m interested in learning if I have been banned from reentering the UAE on a tourist visa. I’ve got Solution: Contact your former employer and ask what your status is. Now I got a better offer from another. VISA Cancelleation From Outside UAE Dubai Visa: Please let me know how can I cancel my UAE residence visa as I am outside UAE. your residency visa and more than likely placed a ban on you which. enter your work permit number to check the status, same for visa.
Hi Dear All, If you want to find out what type of Immigration Ban you have in UAE, you can visit this link...... http://www.dubaifaqs.com/visa-ban-uae.ph Hope this link help you more with your Questions on UAE Ban system. There is no way that you can check the cases online. I was working in the uae from the year 2006 to 2009 and I exited from dubai on emergency leave from my company then I never entered the uae till date. I am applying for new positions .I want to now if there is a ban on me for entering/working in the uae.
admin answers: You did NOT receive any travel ban for resigning your job. You received a 6 months work ban which means you still can obtain a visit visa and during a work ban you also can take employment at any Free Zone. Your future employer can apply for your new work permit already and 6 months after your visa cancellation date you can start working in the UAE again. The work ban isn't stamped in the passport, it's just something you are suppose to know. Carol asks….