Enforcement and Collection of Back Child Support. Download article as a PDF. If a non-custodial parent fails to pay court-ordered child support, the custodial parent can rest assured that federal and state laws mandate tough enforcement procedures.
Thank you for your question about delinquent child support payments you are entitled to receive but have not received and the implications of the delinquent payments appearing on your ex-spouse’s credit report.
If support payments are not deducted from the non-custodial parent's paycheck, they should be paid as directed in the court order. It is very important to keep records of the payments that are made. The Fatherhood Program can help non-custodial parents who have a case with DCSS and are unable to pay child support.
In legal terms, those who are delinquent in child support payments are said to be  in arrears .. A number of states and counties shame deadbeat parents by posting their pictures, names, and delinquent amount online.
The court can order that: 1  Your child live with you under court supervision. 2  Your child be put on probation. 3  Your child be put on probation and sent to a probation camp or ranch. 4  Your child can be sent to the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, Division of Juvenile Justice (also called “DJJ”).
The court will consider how old your child is, how serious the crime is, and the child’s criminal record if any. The court can order that: 1  Your child live with you under court supervision. 2  Your child be put on probation. 3  He or she may have to live with a relative, in a foster home or group home, or in an institution.
If your child is arrested, the police can: 1  Make a record of the arrest and let your child go home. 2  Send your child to an agency that will shelter, care for, or counsel your child. 3  Make your child come back to the police station. 4  This is called being “cited back.”. 5  Give you and your child a Notice to Appear.
There is no minimum age to be sent to juvenile court if you are charged with a crime. Children as young as 6 years old have been sent to juvenile court and accused of being a delinquent. Delinquent is what the courts call a child who has been accused or convicted of a crime in juvenile court.