Tom Jones was born Thomas Jones Woodward in Pontypridd, South Wales, to a traditional coal-mining family, the son of Freda (Jones) and Thomas Woodward. His father was of English descent and his mother was of Welsh and English ancestry. Mini Bio (1). Tom Jones was born Thomas Jones Woodward in Pontypridd, South Wales, to a traditional coal-mining family, the son of Freda (Jones) and Thomas Woodward. His father was of English descent and his mother was of Welsh and English ancestry. He began singing at an early age in church and in the school choir.
Synopsis. Tom Jones is a Welsh singer born on June 7, 1940, in Pontypridd, Wales. Influenced as a child by American blues, R&B and rock 'n' roll, over the past five decades the singing legend has produced hits in both the United States. and the United Kingdom. Tom Jones-Full Biography (TV-14; 45:39) One of the most popular vocalists to emerge from the British Invasion, Tom Jones' rags to riches story began in the slums of Wales, took him to London and then all the way to Vegas.
Sir Thomas John Woodward, OBE, known by his stage name Sir Tom Jones, is a Welsh singer. He became one of the most popular vocalists to emerge from the British Invasion. Mills became Jones' manager and took the young singer to London, and also renamed him Tom Jones, to exploit the popularity of the Academy Award winning 1963 film. 1964 - 1965 2 More Events. 1964 24 Years Old Eventually, Mills got Jones a recording contract with Decca.
Like father, like son: Mark heads to the car as Tom stops and signs autographs. Mark is Tom's son with wife Linda and was born a month after the couple got married in March 1957 when Tom-who was born Tom Jones Woodward but dropped his surname for his stage name, was just 17. Mark became his manager in 1986 after Tom's long-term manager Gordon Mills died of cancer. But these days Sir Tom Jones and his son Mark look more like brothers thanks to their greying beards and flecked hair. The 70-year-old singer clung on to his jet black locks until 18 months ago when Mark, 53, who is his manager, persuaded him that it was time to ditch the hair dye. Spot the difference: Tom Jones and his son Mark Woodward look almost identical as they leave the Radio One studios
Tom Jones (I). Soundtrack | Actor. Tom Jones was born Thomas Jones Woodward in Pontypridd, South Wales, to a traditional coal-mining family, the son of Freda (Jones) and Thomas Woodward. His father was of English descent and his mother was of Welsh and English ancestry. He began singing at an early age in church and in the school choir. 
read more. Sir Thomas Jones Woodward, KBE (born 7 June 1940), best known by his stage name, Tom Jones, is a Welsh pop singer particularly noted for his powerful voice. He was born in Treforest, near Pontypridd in South Wales. 
Tom Jones. Tweet. Welsh singer Tom Jones became a heartthrob in the ‘60s, going on to sell over a million records, releasing songs including She’s A Lady, Delilah and Sex Bomb and is still performing today. Tom has been married to wife Melinda since 1957. In 2012, Tom became a coach on new BBC talent show, The Voice