In 2006 there were 120 dental hygienist graduates from dental hygienist courses in New Jersey and in 2010 there were 150 graduates. This represents a 25% increase in the number of dental hygienist degree or certificate school graduates in New Jersey state. State trends for all professions mirror this growth. There is a 41% pay differential between the highest paid dental hygienists and those in the bottom 10% of the pay bracket. Thus, there is huge variation in pay, within the field of dental hygienist in New Jersey.
New Search New Jersey dental hygienist SalariesNew SearchWithin New Jersey there is a lot of variation in dental hygienist Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in New Jersey and surrounding states, click on any one to find dental hygienist Salaries for that area. May require an Associate's degree or its equivalent and 2-4 years of experience and is licensed as a dental hygienist. Familiar with standard concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on limited experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
Dental Hygienist Pay in New Jersey-NJ. Tweet. The mean dental hygienist salary in New Jersey is $73,480 per year. The national average yearly salary is $66,950, so working as a dental hygienist on the east coast will pay significantly better than the national average. Average hourly pay for a dental hygienist is $35.33. Since many dental hygienists work part-time they are often paid hourly or on a commission based scale. The highest salary currently advertised for a dental hygienist in the state of New Jersey is $90,000! Below you will find above average dental hygienist salaries for the four largest cities in the state, all with a population of over 100,000. Elizabeth - $86,000
In New Jersey, the field of dental hygienist is shrinking. 350 less dental hygienists were working in New Jersey in 2010, than there were in 2006. Thus, in New Jersey, this field has shrunk by 7% in four years. This is slower than the trend for dental hygienists around the US. Nationally, the number of dental hygienists has grown by 7% between 2006 and 2010. State trends for all professions mirror this growth. There is a 41% pay differential between the highest paid dental hygienists and those in the bottom 10% of the pay bracket. Thus, there is huge variation in pay, within the field of dental hygienist in New Jersey.
Dental Assistant jobs – there are currently nearly 9,000 people employed in this area in New Jersey – are expected to grow by 17.1% this decade, while dental hygienist jobs are predicted to grow by as much as 25.1% during the same period. Requirements. The dental practice act in New Jersey defines the duties that dental assistants may or may not perform, and the qualifications they are required to hold in order to perform expanded functions. In general, a dental assistant will always work under the supervision of a licensed dentist.
Dental Hygienists will also find cushy salaries in Austin (+16 percent), Denver (+16 percent), New York (+14 percent), and Portland (+14 percent). Jacksonville is home to the smallest salaries in the field, lagging the national average by 8 percent. Dental Hygienists see a median salary of $69K after reaching one to two decades on the job. As Dental Hygienists reach more than two decades on the job, compensation remains commensurate with experience; the average pay in this group is $72K.
New Jersey has plenty of opportunities for new dental assistants and dental hygienists, and those opportunities are only set to grow. Employment in health care is rising steadily across the US and New Jersey is no exception. [ Seguir leyendo en espanol ]. español Requirements. The dental practice act in New Jersey defines the duties that dental assistants may or may not perform, and the qualifications they are required to hold in order to perform expanded functions. In general, a dental assistant will always work under the supervision of a licensed dentist.
$55,000. Average Dental Hygienist salaries for job postings in New Jersey are 8% higher than average Dental Hygienist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Dental Hygienist Salary Survey 2014. Difficulty in finding a job as a dental hygienist in New Jersey. Observation: If you go back to the main article and view the national averages, you’ll see that New Jersey almost matches the percentages precisely. 