The word  Metamorphism  comes from the Greek: Meta = change, Morph = form, so metamorphism means to change form. In geology this refers to the changes in mineral assemblage and texture that result from subjecting a rock to pressures and temperatures different from those under which the rock originally formed. The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks.
Metamorphic grade refers to the temperature and pressure under which a rock was metamorphosed, considered low grade or high grade. Since metamorphic minerals in a rock form under specific conditions, they are used to identify the temperature and pressure of the metamorphic conditions. Protolith or parent rock is the rock type that a metamorphic rock was before it was subjected to
Metamorphic grade is a general term for describing the relative temperature and pressure conditions under which metamorphic rocks form. As the temperature and/or pressure increases on a body of rock we say that the rock undergoes prograde metamorphism or that the grade of metamorphism increases. The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks.
11. A regional metamorphic rock with coarse inter-locking grains generally formed under conditions of relatively high pressures and temperatures. 12. A metamorphic rock formed under conditions of high pressure and relatively low temperatures, often contains the minerals glaucophane and kyanite. A metamorphic schist containing chlorite and epidote and are formed by low-temperature, low-pressure metamorphism. 14. metamorphism occurs at high-temperatures and pressures, by the crushing and shearing of rock during tectonic movements and resulting in the formation of powdered rock.
Photomicrograph of thin section of phyllite (in cross polarised light). Phyllite is a type of foliated metamorphic rock created from slate that is further metamorphosed so that very fine grained white mica achieves a preferred orientation. It is primarily composed of quartz, sericite mica, and chlorite. Among foliated metamorphic rocks, it represents a gradation in the degree of metamorphism between slate and schist. The minute crystals of graphite, sericite, or chlorite, or the translucent fine-grained white mica, impart a silky, sometimes golden sheen to the surfaces of cleavage, called phyllitic luster.
A metamorphic facies is a set of metamorphic mineral assemblages that were formed under similar pressures and temperatures. The assemblage is typical of what is formed in conditions corresponding to an area on the two dimensional graph of temperature vs. pressure (See diagram at right). 
Phyllite is formed by relatively low-grade metamorphic conditions in the lower part of the greenschist facies. Parent rocks may be only partially metamorphosed so that the original mineralogy and sedimentary bedding are partially preserved. PHYLLITE. Phyllite is a fine-grained metamorphic rock formed by the low grade metamorphism of fine-grained, sedimentary rocks, such as mudstones or shales.
Metamorphism occurs because rocks undergo changes in temperature and pressure and may be subjected to differential stress and hydrothermal fluids. Metamorphism occurs because some minerals are stable only under certain conditions of pressure and temperature. When pressure and temperature change, chemical reactions occur to cause the minerals in the rock to change to an assemblage that is stable at the new pressure and temperature conditions. The original rock that has undergone metamorphism is called the protolith. Protolith can be any type of rock and sometimes the changes in texture and mineralogy are so dramatic that is difficult to distinguish what the protolith was. 1  Note that diagenesis and weathering are also a changes in form that occur in rocks.