There are several different varieties of homeowners insurance, but the most common policy nationwide is the HO-3 policy. For HO-3 home insurance, Oklahoma residents pay an average of $1,018; when compared to the national average cost of this policy ($804), The Sooner State's rates certainly seem a bit inflated. Fortunately, for Oklahoma homeowners, insurance is not as static as it sometimes appears. There are several ways to lower insurance rates, and understanding how providers come up with quotes is a big part of finding the most affordable coverage for the lowest price available.
Oklahoma Auto Insurance Quotes. Unlike homeowners insurance, Oklahoma car insurance is much more in keeping with the national averages. In fact, Sooners pay an average of $646 a year for auto insurance, which is well below the national average of $795. 
According to the Insurance Information Institute, in 2010, the average annual premium for homeowners insurance in Oklahoma was $1,246. Due to tornadoes and wildfires, Oklahoma is one of the most expensive states to buy home insurance. 
Understanding Oklahoma Home Insurance Quotes. When you compare the average cost of buying a home in Oklahoma to that of buying a home in many other areas of the country, OK prices are relatively modest. Fortunately, for Oklahoma homeowners, insurance is not as static as it sometimes appears. There are several ways to lower insurance rates, and understanding how providers come up with quotes is a big part of finding the most affordable coverage for the lowest price available.
Factors of Home Insurance Rates in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The cost of insurance Tulsa varies depending on the home’s age, condition, and its history of damage claims. The frequency of severe weather — tornadoes, in particular — also affect insurance premiums.
4. Deductibles for earthquake damage claims are usually higher than standard homeowners’ insurance claims — usually 5 to 10 percent of a home’s value, Monies reports: At 10 percent, out-of-pocket costs to repair earthquake damage would be $12,000 for a $120,000 house, the median home value in Oklahoma County. Shelton says the measure was opposed by the insurance industry and died in a House committee.
Oklahoma ranks atop list of highest homeowners' insurance premiums By ROD WALTON World Business Editor TulsaWorld.com | 5 comments. Tornado Alley is top of the heap when it comes to homeowners’ insurance costs. A new report by industry aggregator HomeownersInsurance.com ranked Oklahoma as having the most expensive annual premiums. Neighboring Kansas was No. 2, while Texas, Arkansas and Missouri all ranked in the top 10. HomeownersInsurance.com estimated that Oklahoma homeowners pay about $1,564 annually on premiums. The number is based on the average policy premium sold by the companies represented on the website in the first quarter.
The second highest premiums were in Kansas, like Oklahoma a state prone to tornado activity. Homeowners in Kansas paid an average of $1,144 per year to insure their homes. The lowest premiums were in Oregon at $419 per year. The U.S. average was $810, up less than 1 percent from the fourth quarter of 2013. HomeownersInsurance.com estimated that Oklahoma homeowners pay about $1,564 annually on premiums. The number is based on the average policy premium sold by the companies represented on the website in the first quarter.
The average cost of Nursing Homes in Oklahoma is $146. Nursing Homes costs range from $110 to $175 depending on location and other factors. The cost of nursing home care is always a concern for interested seniors and their families. 
In Oklahoma, the average premium costs $1,123, which is higher than the nation’s average, according to the Insurance Information Institute. The cost of insurance Tulsa varies depending on the home’s age, condition, and its history of damage claims. The frequency of severe weather — tornadoes, in particular — also affect insurance premiums.