Terminalia ferdinandiana, also called the gubinge, billygoat plum, Kakadu plum or murunga, is a flowering plant in the family Combretaceae, native to Australia, widespread throughout the tropical woodlands from northwestern Australia to eastern Arnhem Land. It has a high concentration of vitamin C in its fruit: recorded concentrations of 2300-3150 mg/100 g wet weight and occasionally as high as 5300 mg/100 g, compared with 50 mg/100 g for oranges, ranks among the highest known of any natural source.
Kakadu Plum: Health Benefits Beyond Vitamin C Supply. Kakadu plum is an edible, vitamin C rich fruit produced by the Terminalia ferdinandiana tree, a small deciduous tree native to the tropical woodlands of Australia. Did you know that Kakadu plums are supercharged with vitamin C, with a 100-gram serving of Kakadu plums providing around 1,240 milligrams of vitamin C (that's more than 20 times the amount of vitamin C found in oranges).
About the Kakadu Plum. The Kakadu Plum, also called the Gubinge, Billygoat Plum or Murunga; grows natively across the Top End of Northern Australia. The fruit has been a traditional source of bush tucker, antiseptic and a healing remedy for the Indigenous people across Arnhem Land for thousands of years. The Kakadu Plum contains phytochemicals such as gallic and ellagic acids. Gallic acid has antibacterial, antiviral and antifungal activities and also shows anti-inﬂammatory, anti-tumour, anti-mutagenic and anti-bronchodilatory activities.
A native of Arnhem Land in northern Australia, the kakadu plum is also called Gurumal, Gubinge, Billygoat Plum or Murunga by indigenous Australians, who have been using it for thousands of years as a traditional antiseptic and healing remedy, as well as a gourmet bush food. Science has identified the Aboriginal bushfood known as the kakadu plum as the world’s richest natural source of vitamin C, which makes it an excellent ingredient in skincare products.
The kakadu plum, also called the gubinge, the billygoat plum, or the murunga, is a flowering plant native to Arnhem Land in northern Australia. 
Kakadu plum is also known as Gubinge, Billygoat Plum, Gurumal or Murunga. Kakadu plum is the richest source of Vitamin C. This contains Vitamin C even more than orange, kiwi fruit and chili pepper. It is grown in the Top End of Northern Australia. It is widely used in many skincare and pharmaceuticals products. The inner bark of the kakadu plum tree can cure many skin disorders and infections. This is also used to heal wounds, sores and boils. It is also effective to prevent or control fungal and bacterial infections. This is proven to be an excellent wound healer and to help treat psoriasis.
Kakadu Plum. Kakadu Plum (also known as Gubinge, Billygoat Plum or Murunga) is a native tree from Australia, found exclusively in the Northern Territory & Arnhem Land. 
The Kakadu Plum has been identified world wide as the single natural food source with the highest vitamin C content on the planet. It contains 3000mg of vitamin C per 100g of fruit-over 50 times the concentration found in oranges. The Kakadu Plum contains phytochemicals such as gallic and ellagic acids. Gallic acid has antibacterial, antiviral and antifungal activities and also shows anti-inﬂammatory, anti-tumour, anti-mutagenic and anti-bronchodilatory activities.
Kakadu plum is a fruit from a type of flowering deciduous tree. Kakadu plum belongs to the family Combretaceae and known by the botanical name Terminalia ferdinandiana. It is otherwise known by the name billygoat plum, murunga, gubinge. The tree in native to the northern Australian territory and grow in abundance in the month of May.
10 most extreme places on Earth. The kakadu plum is a fruit native to the Northern Territories and Western Australia. This small fruit has a sweet taste if eaten raw, particularly if it is ripe, but also can be used in jams, sauces, and other recipes. Typically, a kakadu plum is about 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) in width and about 1 inch (2.54 cm) in length. Some people say they resemble an olive, even having a large seed within the fruit, similar to that of the olive.