Report Abuse. Suite is a general term referring to a group of related instrumental pieces. In the Baroque dance suites all the movements were usually in the same key and followed a certain sequence with the dance pieces you described. See: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Baroque_mus... The Baroque Suite was a collection of stylized dances, which means they were not composed to be danced to, but to be listened to. The basic form of the Baroque Suite consists of: 1. Prelude 2. Allemande 3. Courante 4. Sarabande 5. Gigue Additional dances included the Bouree, Minuet, Passapied, and the Double. The dances all tend to be in binary form and often change keys within each dance, each time returning to the original key
The baroque suite is a type of instrumental dance music which consists of several movements or short pieces in the same key and functions as a dance music. A suite is usually a set of something, like a suite of furniture. In computing terms, a suite refers to a group of applications that come together as one set.
By Espie Estrella. The suite is a type of instrumental dance music that emerged during the Renaissance and was further developed during the Baroque Period. It consists of several movements or short pieces in the same key and functions as dance music or dinner music during social gatherings. Each of the four main movements is based on a dance form from another country. Thus, each movement has a characteristic sound and varies in rhythm and meter. Instruments used to play suites include the cello, harpsichord, lute and violin. Suites were performed either on a solo instrument or by a group of instruments.
In the Baroque era the suite was an important musical form, also known as Suite de danses, Ordre (the term favored by Francois François), Couperin partita Or (ouverture after the  theatrical  overture which often included a series of) dances as with the orchestral suites Of.J. S. bach A suite, in music, is an ordered set of instrumental or orchestral / concert band pieces. It originated in the late 14th century as a pairing of dance tunes and grew in scope to comprise up to five dances, sometimes with a prelude, by the early 17th century.
1 Entree (entrée) - Ballet sometimes an entree entrée is composed as part of; a suite but there it is purely instrumental music and no dance. 2  Is performed it is, an introduction-a march like piece played during the entrance of a, dancing group or played before. 3  A ballet usually/in 4.  4 time A suite, in music, is an ordered set of instrumental or orchestral / concert band pieces. It originated in the late 14th century as a pairing of dance tunes and grew in scope to comprise up to five dances, sometimes with a prelude, by the early 17th century.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The suite is a type of instrumental dance music that emerged during the Renaissance and was further developed during the Baroque Period. By the time of JS Bach, suites were composed of four main movements: allemande, courante, sarabande and gigue. Optional movements include: air, bourree (lively dance), gavotte (moderately fast dance), minuet, polonaise, and prelude. Each of the four main movements is based on a dance form from another country.
The baroque suite is a type of instrumental dance music which consists of several movements or short pieces in the same key and functions as a dance music. By the time of JS Bach, suites were composed of four main movements: allemande, courante, sarabande and gigue. Optional movements include: air, bourree (lively dance), gavotte (moderately fast dance), minuet, polonaise, and prelude. Each of the four main movements is based on a dance form from another country.