Watson and Crick described the structure of a DNA molecule as a double helix, in which two strands of nucleotide sequences were wound around each other. 
Each base is also attached to a sugar molecule and a phosphate molecule. Together, a base, sugar, and phosphate are called a nucleotide. Nucleotides are arranged in two long strands that form a spiral called a double helix. The structure of the double helix is somewhat like a ladder, with the base pairs forming the ladder’s rungs and the sugar and phosphate molecules forming the vertical sidepieces of the ladder. An important property of DNA is that it can replicate, or make copies of itself.
Best Answer: The building blocks are nucleotides. The nucleotides are joined in such a way that they form a double helix that is like a twisted rope ladder. The steps of the ladder are made by the paired nitrogen bases of opposing nucleotides. A-T and C-G The sides of the ladder are alternating sugars and phosphat
The twisted ladder metaphorA DNA molecule is often likened to a spiral (or twisted) ladder. In this analogy, the rungs of the ladder are the base pairs (A-T and G-C). The sides of the ladder are the sugar-phosphate backbones of the two strands. This refers to B form DNA. A molecule of DNA is double-stranded. The molecule has the shape of a double helix, typically right handed (B form DNA). The DNA molecule consists of two complementary strands oriented in an antiparallel fashion. Each strand is composed of nucleotides
Report Abuse. DNA structure DNA structure was first described by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions for the development and function of living organisms. All living things contain DNA, with the exception of some viruses with RNA genomes. The nucleotides are joined in such a way that they form a double helix that is like a twisted rope ladder. The steps of the ladder are made by the paired nitrogen bases of opposing nucleotides. A-T and C-G The sides of the ladder are alternating sugars and phosphat
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: DNA is a double helix molecule, with a sugar phosphate backbone with phosphodiester bonds joining Phosphate groups to sugars. The two strands are in an antiparallel configuration with nitrogenous bases joined by hydrogen bonds