A liver (hepatic) function panel is a blood test to check how well the liver is working. This test measures the blood levels of total protein, albumin, bilirubin, and liver enzymes. High or low levels may mean that liver damage or disease is present. The liver serves several important functions in the body, including changing nutrients into energy for the body and breaking down toxic substances.
Liver function tests check the levels of certain enzymes and proteins in your blood. Levels that are higher or lower than normal can indicate liver problems. 1 Higher-than-normal levels of ALP may indicate liver damage or disease, such as a blocked bile duct, or certain bone diseases. 2  Albumin and total protein. 3  Albumin is one of several proteins made in the liver. 4  Your body needs these proteins to fight infections and to perform other functions.
Liver function tests are blood tests used to help diagnose and monitor liver disease or damage. The tests measure the levels of certain enzymes and proteins in your blood. Other liver function tests measure enzymes that liver cells release in response to damage or disease. Abnormal liver function test results don't always indicate liver disease. Your doctor will explain your results and what they mean. 1  Why it's done.
Liver enzyme tests, formerly called liver function tests (LFTs), are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They can also check how well the liver is working. Most often, a liver test panel is ordered as a routine lab test. Many doctors check the liver in new patients or during annual physicals. Your doctor may conduct liver enzyme and liver function tests if: 1  You are taking a medication that can harm
Liver blood tests are some of the most commonly performed blood tests. These tests can be used to assess liver functions or liver injury. An initial step in detecting liver damage is a simple blood test to determine the level of certain liver enzymes (proteins) in the blood. 
A liver function blood test checks for a variety of substances in your blood that may indicate symptoms of liver disease or liver dysfunction problems. These substances include: 1  Liver enzymes: In a healthy body, liver enzymes are found only in the liver tissue itself. 1 Liver enzymes: In a healthy body, liver enzymes are found only in the liver tissue itself. 2  However, if your liver cells are damaged or dying, these enzymes leak into your bloodstream. 3  It is a good indication that something might be wrong if you have high levels of liver enzymes in your liver blood test.
Comment on this page ». A liver blood test, also known as a liver function test or a liver function blood test, is a routine test that your doctor may perform to determine whether or not your liver is functioning properly. 1 Liver enzymes: In a healthy body, liver enzymes are found only in the liver tissue itself. 2  However, if your liver cells are damaged or dying, these enzymes leak into your bloodstream. 3  It is a good indication that something might be wrong if you have high levels of liver enzymes in your liver blood test.
Some of these tests measure how well the liver is performing its normal functions of producing protein and clearing bilirubin, a blood waste product. Other liver function tests measure enzymes that liver cells release in response to damage or disease. Abnormal liver function test results don't always indicate liver disease. Your doctor will explain your results and what they mean. 1  Why it's done.
For example, if in the results of the blood test, liver cells are shown to be damaged, your doctor may ask for more liver blood tests to look for specific disorders that may have caused the damage, such as cirrhosis or hepatitis. 1 Liver enzymes: In a healthy body, liver enzymes are found only in the liver tissue itself. 2  However, if your liver cells are damaged or dying, these enzymes leak into your bloodstream. 3  It is a good indication that something might be wrong if you have high levels of liver enzymes in your liver blood test.
1 A blood test is taken. 2  If the blood test results show an elevated liver enzymes, a second blood test is requested. 3  A second blood test is taken to rule out other liver diseases, and focusing specifically on liver functionality. 4  No signs of Hepatitis B or Hepatitis C found in the blood test. 