Bamboo: Food of the Pandas. Bamboo is the main food source of the giant panda and is extremely important for both captive and wild pandas. A new bamboo planting site in the Wolong Nature Reserve has been selected and the farmers are ready to plant. Five types of bamboo have been selected for planting: 1  Chimonobambusa Quadrangularis (Square Bamboo). After the bamboo flowers, it can take 4-10 years before the bamboo begins to grown again. In order to more accurately replicate the Giant Pandas' natural habitat, multiple species of bamboo need to be grown. In addition, it is thought that different bamboo species provide various nutritional benefits.
Habitat loss is the greatest cause of the decline of the giant panda. Large areas of China’s natural forest have been cleared for agriculture, timber and firewood, to meet the needs of the large and growing human population. 
The giant panda is enormously charismatic, and is usually the 'main attraction' in zoos and other institutions where captive individuals are held. Sadly, this striking species has suffered greatly in the wild due to human encroachment onto its disappearing habitat. The SSP for the giant panda is a conservation and management plan in which member organisations of AZA work together to ensure the survival of this species. WWF. The giant panda has been the WWF’s logo since the organisation was formed in 1961. WWF has been active in giant panda conservation since 1980.
But the panda’s natural habitat continues to decline. The giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca, or literally “black-and-white cat-footed animal”) is a mammal classified in the bear family (Ursidae) and native to central-western and southwestern China. Habitat destruction is the greatest threat to the survival of the species. In the eleven years from 1973 to 1984, suitable panda habitat shrunk by 50 percent in the isolated areas where pandas live. The Wanglang Reserve also lists interruption of migration routes as a major threat to the giant panda.
Male weight: 85 - 125 kg Female weight: 70 - 100 kg. . Habitat loss is the greatest cause of the decline of the giant panda. Large areas of China’s natural forest have been cleared for agriculture, timber and firewood, to meet the needs of the large and growing human population. . Gestation: 5 months, though it can vary from 83 days to 324 days. 
However, a dip in bee population numbers in bad years would be cancelled out in the good years. One of th … e causes of the decline in bee populations is the spraying of crops with of pesticides, and also by the spreading of mites and other parasites.   There is also another possible cause: GM crops.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. There are some hunters killing them but bamboo is the main reason for the population decrease in Giant Pandas. The pandas eat the bamboo so fast that there isn't enough to eat. Yes i know bamboo grows very fast but the pandas eat it faster up to 19 kilograms a day in bamboo leaves. One of th … e causes of the decline in bee populations is the spraying of crops with of pesticides, and also by the spreading of mites and other parasites.   There is also another possible cause: GM crops.
The Giant Panda (black-and-white cat-foot) (Ailuropoda melanoleuca), is a mammal classified in the bear family, Ursidae, native to central-western and southwestern China. Giant Pandas are one of the rarest mammals in the world. The giant panda has a body typical of bears. Pandas have black fur on their ears, eye patches, muzzles, legs and shoulders. The rest of the pandas coat is white. The pandas thick, wooly coat keeps it warm in the cool forests of its habitat.
Today, the giant panda's natural habitat is confined to a sliver of mountain ranges extending through northern Sichuan province and into the neighboring provinces of Gansu and Shaanxi. Massive forest loss across China up until the late 1990s, has been the main cause for the disappearance of the species' habitat. 