Unfortunately, there is no universally accepted standard definition for the height of a mountain or a hill although a mountain usually has an identifiable summit. In the United Kingdom, a mountain must be over 600 meters (1969 feet) or over 300 meters (984 feet) if it's an abrupt difference in the local topography. However, some hills can be called mountains and some mountains can be called hills-it's just a matter of the original name given to the relief. 
The dictionary defines a mountain as that which is ‘ higher and steeper than a hill ’. A mountain is a landform that rises high above the surrounding terrain in a limited area. They are made from rocks and earth. Generally, mountains are higher than 600 metres. Those less than 600 metres are called hills. 
· just now. Report Abuse. I'm not sure but according to what I found on the internet 69 feet is enough to get called a mountain cliff and 534 feet by some counts and 509 feet by others is enough to be called a mountain. Pools Bluff is a mountain cliff in Washington County in the state of Louisiana (LA). 
Defining what a mountain is can be tricky, but a good definition is, any land mass higher and steeper than a hill.. Many geographers agree that mountains are a minimum of two thousand feet high, and have a slope that's greater than two degrees. 
The dictionary defines a mountain as that which is ‘ higher and steeper than a hill ’. A mountain is a landform that rises high above the surrounding terrain in a limited area. They are made from rocks and earth. Generally, mountains are higher than 600 metres. Those less than 600 metres are called hills. Some common features of mountains include the following: 1  the summit, or the top of a mountain; 2  the slope, or side of the mountain; and. 3  a very steep valley between young mountains, known as a gorge.
A mountain's height above sea level is called its elevation, with its highest point called a summit or peak. Geologists, it turns out, don't readily agree what height makes a mountain a mountain, but an elevation of 300 meters (1,000 feet) is generally high enough to earn the classification. Mt. Everest, located in the country of Nepal, rises 8,850 meters (29,035 feet) above sea level, which makes it the world's highest point.
A mountain range (also mountain barrier/belt/chain/system) is a geographic area containing numerous geologically related mountains. A mountain system or system of mountain ranges, sometimes is used to combine several geological features that are geographically (regionally) related. If the definition of a mountain range is stretched to include underwater mountains, then the Ocean Ridges form the longest continuous mountain system on Earth, with a length of 65,000 kilometres (40,400 mi).
A mountain is a large landform that stretches above the surrounding land in a limited area, usually in the form of a peak. A mountain is generally steeper than a hill. Mountains are formed through tectonic forces or volcanism. For a while, the US defined a mountain as being 1,000 feet (300 m) or taller. Any similar landform lower than this height was considered a hill. However, today, the United States Geological Survey (USGS) concludes that these terms do not have technical definitions in the US.
The Answer: According to our dictionary, a mountain is a natural elevation of the earth's surface rising more or less abruptly to a summit, and attaining an altitude greater than that of a hill, usually greater than 2000 ft. (610 m)..
Whether a landform is called a mountain may depend on local usage. The highest point in San Francisco, California, is called Mount Davidson, notwithstanding its height of 300 m (980 ft), which makes it twenty feet short of the minimum for a mountain by American designations. Similarly, Mount Scott outside Lawton, Oklahoma is only 251 m (823 ft) from its base to its highest point. For a while, the US defined a mountain as being 1,000 feet (300 m) or taller. Any similar landform lower than this height was considered a hill. However, today, the United States Geological Survey (USGS) concludes that these terms do not have technical definitions in the US.