1 Get the right cable. 2  When you connect an external monitor to a laptop computer, you have to run a cable between the two devices. 3  Make sure that you get a monitor cable that matches the sockets on your laptop and monitor. 4  Tell your operating system you’re using a second screen.
1 You will use this port and the corresponding video cable to connect your laptop to an external monitor. 2  Desktop Computers: Look at the back of the computer (Figure 1) to check for any installed add-in video cards. 3  Usually, integrated video cards are automatically disabled when an add-in video card is installed.
You can share your Internet access by connecting your laptop with a non-wireless computer. First, you need to connect your laptop with the other computer by using a standard Ethernet cable. You can then share your Internet connection. This is different for each version of Windows, as described in the following steps.
are you trying to output the video from both laptops to a tv or a monitor. if you are you use video switch...if your trying to move data from one to the other you can use a usb or ethernet cable. Share. Related resources. 1  My laptop screen is cracked and I cant connect to another monitor via a vga cable.
Connect the monitor, flat panel, or projector to the laptop's external video connection on the back of the computer. An example of a VGA connector for a computer monitor and VGA port on a laptop is shown to the right.
Step 1: Check to see if the external monitor uses a VGA cable, a DVI cable, or an S-Video cable. Look on the side of your laptop's case to see if it has a corresponding cable port. Purchase a conversion unit, such as a VGA to DVI converter, if your laptop does not have already have the correct
1 Compare the back of your computer to the back of your monitor. 2  Use the table below to ensure that you connect the correct video cable to the correct video port on the back of your computer and monitor. 3  Laptop Computers: Most laptop computers have a port on the side or back of the computer to connect an external monitor.
To hook up a monitor to a laptop, find the external video port on your laptop. Connect your monitor to your laptop using a 15-pin cable with help from an IT specialist in this free video on laptop computers.