It is significant that so much carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere because CO 2 is the most important gas for controlling Earth’s temperature. Carbon dioxide, methane, and halocarbons are greenhouse gases that absorb a wide range of energy—including infrared energy (heat) emitted by the Earth—and then re-emit it. Carbon dioxide causes about 20 percent of Earth’s greenhouse effect; water vapor accounts for about 50 percent; and clouds account for 25 percent. The rest is caused by small particles (aerosols) and minor greenhouse gases like methane.
Plants pull carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, releasing the  oxygen and retaining the carbon, in a process known as  photosynthesis. Most photosynthesis is performed by ma … rine (ocean)  cyanobacteria.    Plants, trees and forests act as big carbon sinks, provided they do  not burn. Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere: 1  allows sunlight and heat into the atmosphere, but doesn't let it get out, causing the Earth to heat up. 2  along with water vapor, methane, and a few other gases keep the Earth from becoming a deep freeze on the side away from the Sun.
Carbon dioxide is an integral part of the carbon cycle, a biogeochemical cycle in which carbon is exchanged between the Earth's oceans, soil, rocks and biosphere. 
Carbon monoxide is a trace gas in the atmosphere, and it does not have a direct effect on the global temperature, like methane and carbon dioxide do. However, carbon monoxide plays a major role in atmospheric chemistry, and it affects the ability of the atmosphere to cleanse itself of many other polluting gases. Colorless, odorless, and poisonous, carbon monoxide is one of the six major air pollutants regulated in the United States and in many other nations around the world. When carbon-based fuels, such as coal, wood, and oil, burn incompletely or inefficiently, they produce carbon monoxide.
Carbon is extracted from the atmosphere by plants through the process known as photosynthesis. This carbon is combined with other elements in complex ways to form organic molecules important to life. This carbon is later transferred to animals who consume, or eat plants. 
Plants pull carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, releasing the  oxygen and retaining the carbon, in a process known as  photosynthesis. Most photosynthesis is performed by ma … rine (ocean)  cyanobacteria.    Plants, trees and forests act as big carbon sinks, provided they do  not burn. 
1 Carbon moves from the atmosphere to plants. 2  In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  With the help of the Sun, through the process of photosynthesis, carbon dioxide is pulled from the air to make plant food from carbon. 4  Carbon moves from plants to animals. It is always on the move! 1  Carbon moves from the atmosphere to plants. 2  In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide (CO 2). 3  With the help of the Sun, through the process of photosynthesis, carbon dioxide is pulled from the air to make plant food from carbon.
Carbon is also a part of the ocean, air, and even rocks. Because the Earth is a dynamic place, carbon does not stay still. It is on the move! In the atmosphere, carbon is attached to some oxygen in a gas called carbon dioxide. Plants use carbon dioxide and sunlight to make their own food and grow. The carbon becomes part of the plant. Plants that die and are buried may turn into fossil fuels made of carbon like coal and oil over millions of years.