The Andes extend from north to south through seven South American countries: Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile, and Argentina. Along its length, the Andes is split into several ranges, which are separated by intermediate depressions. The Andes is the world's highest mountain range outside of Asia. The highest mountain outside Asia, Mount Aconcagua, rises to an elevation of about 6,961 m (22,838 ft) above sea level.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The type of boundary that the Andes mountains are, in South America, is a convergent plate boundary. This was formed from the collision of the South American plate boundary and the Nazca plate. This is when plates move toward each other. more specifically the type of plate collision that caused the Cascad … es is an oceanic-continental convergence. This is when a plate with continental leading edge slowly collides with a plate that has an oceanic leading edge.
The continental spine of western South America is dense with this type of volcanic mountain building from the subduction of the Nazca Plate. In North America the Cascade mountain range, extending north from California's Sierra Nevada, is also of this tectonic type. 1 Subduction of the Nazca Plate beneath the South American Plate to form the Andes. 2  Subduction of the Pacific Plate beneath the Australian Plate and Tonga Plate, forming the complex New Zealand to New Guinea subduction/transform boundaries.
The type of boundary that the Andes mountains are, in South America, is a convergent plate boundary. This was formed from the collision of the South American plate boundary an … d the Nazca plate. 1 person found this useful. Answered. In Andes. Confidence votes 16. The Nazca plate (a continental plate) and the South American plate (an oceanic plate) collided to form the Andes Mountains.
Map of the volcanic arcs in the Andes, and subducted structures affecting volcanism. The Andean Volcanic Belt is a major volcanic belt along the Andean cordillera in Colombia, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Chile and Argentina. It formed as a result of subduction of the Nazca Plate and Antarctic Plate underneath the South American Plate. The belt is subdivided into four main volcanic zones that are separated from each other by volcanic gaps. The volcanoes of the belt are diverse in terms of activity style, products and morphology. It is one of the four volcanic zones of the Andes. The Central Volcanic Zone extends from Peru to Chile and forms the western boundary of the Altiplano plateau. The volcanic arc has formed due to subduction of the Nazca Plate under western South America along the Peru–Chile Trench.
The Andes is a mountain chain which extends along the western edge of the South American plate. The most prominent features that define this orogen are the subducting Nazca plate and its associated trench, the present day active volcanic arc and the fold-and-thrust belt in the foreland. 
Two locations are marked to show this type of plate boundary-the Cascade volcanoes along the Washington-Oregon coast of North America and the Andes mountain range on the western margin of South America. Here the Nazca Plate is subducting beneath the South American plate. Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of convergent boundaries between oceanic and continental plates.
The Cascade Mountain Range is a line of volcanoes above the melting oceanic plate. The Andes Mountain Range of western South America is another example of a convergent boundary between an oceanic and continental plate. Here the Nazca Plate is subducting beneath the South American plate. Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of convergent boundaries between oceanic and continental plates.