TO STEAM: Rub the artichokes with the lemon halves to help keep the leaves from darkening, and place in a steamer basket with the leaves facing up. To impart more flavor, you can add a few slices of lemon or freshly squeezed lemon juice to the water in the steamer during cooking. 1 Cut or pull off the smaller bottom leaves around the base of the artichoke. 2  Cut the top 1/3 or so off of the artichoke to remove the sharp points from the tips of the leaves or, using kitchen shears, trim the tip off of each leaf to remove the sharp spike at the end of each leaf.
If you need to store artichokes for use later, freezing is a great way to accomplish that. Freezing the artichokes when they are most fresh will give you maximum flavor when you add them to a meal in the future. Freezing Artichokes. If you need to store artichokes for use later, freezing is a great way to accomplish that. Freezing the artichokes when they are most fresh will give you maximum flavor when you add them to a meal in the future. This is a guide about freezing artichokes. Ad.
Make sure all the dark green is trimmed off. As you trim each artichoke, place it in water with lemon juice to help prevent browning. Once you have trimmed all the artichokes, place them in boiling water for about 10 minutes. Drain well, cool and cut each in half. Place them on a cookie sheet and freeze. Once they are frozen, put in a plastic bag and keep frozen. This system enables you to remove as many as you want and keep the rest frozen. Remove and place in cool water to lower temperature. Drain and freeze. Place in plastic freezer bags to reduce freezer burn. Hopefully, this will be enough cooking to arrest the enzyme system but not enough to cause the artichokes to come apart.
Artichokes should only be frozen after cooking, and not frozen raw. Left uncooked, they will become discolored during freezing and have a poor flavor when cooked. To prepare whole artichokes for freezing, remove all of the outer leaves, including the choke (fuzzy part), until you reach the pale colored inner bracts. The portion that is left at the base is the heart. Trim the tops and stems, wash the hearts in cold water and drain well. Freezing Artichokes. If you need to store artichokes for use later, freezing is a great way to accomplish that. Freezing the artichokes when they are most fresh will give you maximum flavor when you add them to a meal in the future. This is a guide about freezing artichokes. Ad.
If you want to freeze your artichokes raw, that is also possible. However, they will not store as long as blanched artichokes. Maximum storage time of fresh artichokes should be between three to five days only. To prepare fresh artichokes for freezing, do not cut or wash the artichokes. 
Artichoke Storage. Fresh artichokes may be stored unwashed in a plastic bag in the refrigerator for up to one week. However, since you don't know how long they've already been on your grocer's shelves, it's best to use fresh artichokes on the day of purchase. Cooked leftovers can be refrigerated up to four days. Artichoke hearts are also available canned and frozen for time-challenged cooks. Artichokes must be cooked before freezing. If you freeze them raw, they will turn brown as well as suffer in taste and texture. To freeze whole cooked artichokes for later use, drain completely, wrap tightly in foil and pack in plastic freezer bags or other airtight container for 6 to 8 months at 0 degrees F
Bring your water to a boil and along with your artichokes add more lemon juice, which is essential to prevent any bad discoloration. Hold the water temperature to just under a boil for 20 minutes. Remove and place in cool water to lower temperature. Drain and freeze. Place in plastic freezer bags to reduce freezer burn. Hopefully, this will be enough cooking to arrest the enzyme system but not enough to cause the artichokes to come apart.
The option used most frequently for preserving artichokes is freezing artichokes, which is the most popular and most effective way of preserving artichokes. The delicate flavor is not lost when frozen, but, the artichokes should be used within 8 months or so to assure the best flavor. 1 Cut or pull off the smaller bottom leaves around the base of the artichoke. 2  Cut the top 1/3 or so off of the artichoke to remove the sharp points from the tips of the leaves or, using kitchen shears, trim the tip off of each leaf to remove the sharp spike at the end of each leaf.