Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. lē adverb Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. Lē adverb see plutocracy Defined-for english. Language learners see plutocracy defined. for kids
Noun. 1. plutocrat-someone who exercises power by virtue of wealth. have, rich person, wealthy person-a person who possesses great material wealth. noun rich man, millionaire, capitalist, tycoon, fat cat (slang, chiefly U.S.), Dives, magnate, moneybags (slang), Croesus He denounced plutocrats and the idle rich. plu·toc·ra·cy. n. pl. plu·toc·ra·cies. 1. Government by the wealthy. 2. A wealthy class that controls a government.
Plutocracy (from Greek πλοῦτος, ploutos, meaning wealth, and κράτος, kratos, meaning power, dominion, rule) or plutarchy, is a form of oligarchy and defines a society ruled or controlled by the small minority of the wealthiest citizens. The first known use of the term was in 1652. One modern, formal example of what some critics have described as a plutocracy is the City of London. The City (not the whole of modern London but the area of the ancient city, about 1 sq mile or 2.5 km2, which now mainly comprises the financial district) has a unique electoral system for its local administration.
Plutocracy. Plutocracy is the rule by the super-rich international capitalists and their retainers; the press, office holders, spies and thugs. In a plutocracy the middle class is controlled though taxation, low-cost imports (free trade) and corrupt politicians and in a communist system the middle class is exterminated. The perfect plutocracy consists of two classes only—the plutocrats and their overseers and the subsistence-level poor.
Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. Lē adverb see plutocracy Defined-for english. language learners Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. Lē adverb see plutocracy Defined-for english. Language learners see plutocracy defined. for kids
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A plutocracy is a government that is ruled by the wealthy or controlled by wealthy individuals. The term usually is used pejoratively, because it implies a lack of democratic freedom and social mobility. Wealth Leads to Political Power. An outright plutocracy governed by a handful of wealthy individuals is relatively rare in the modern era. The governments of many nations, however, are heavily influenced by wealth.
The United States as a Plutocracy. A plutocracy is a system of rule by people of wealth, which describes our situation far more accurately than the term democracy. We have been an Empire ruled as a plutocracy since our founding. Hear my video commentary on American Plutocracy and the transition to Deep Democracy. White Men of the Propertied Class.
Plutocracy is, therefore, defined as a state, society or government controlled and ruled by the wealthy or a wealthy class. This particular class of people govern a state or society because of their wealth, or rather, their power stems from their wealth. As mentioned above, an Oligarchy is a type of political system or government. It is defined as a form of government controlled or ruled by a small and elite group of people. Thus, this small group of people has control of the government and, of course, the entire state.
’’ …we had come to the stage where for our people what was needed was a real democracy; and of all forms of tyranny the least attractive and the most vulgar is the tyranny of mere wealth, the tyranny of a plutocracy.’’. You don't do this in a kind of chortling, smoking your cigar, conspiratorial thinking way. One modern, formal example of what some critics have described as a plutocracy is the City of London. The City (not the whole of modern London but the area of the ancient city, about 1 sq mile or 2.5 km2, which now mainly comprises the financial district) has a unique electoral system for its local administration.