A liquor licence states where and when you are allowed to serve alcohol. Different licence types are available to suit different businesses or community organisations. Fees and legal obligations for liquor licences vary, depending on the type of business and licence. If you are an existing liquor licensee, permits and licence variations are available if you want to change or extend the conditions of your licence. Permits are also available for non-proprietary organisations that want to serve alcohol temporarily or at a one-off event. In Queensland, the Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation (OLGR) regulates liquor licence and permit applications. Liquor licences may take 4-6 months to be approved
From 1 January 2009 all existing licences in Queensland will be converted to the new licence types. The transitional provisions of the Liquor and Other Acts Amendment Act 2008 list the new licence types for the conversion: Small bars in Queensland must have limited seating for no more than 60 patrons at any one time. In contrast to a commercial hotel licence (which has a base annual fee of $2,700), the annual licence fee for a bar licence will be $500, plus any additional fees for other risk factors (see below).
Liquor licences are outlined in the Liquor Act 1992. In Queensland, liquor licences are regulated by the Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation (OLGR). The type of liquor or wine licence you need depends on the type of business or organisation you want to operate. Each liquor licence has different requirements, and different application and renewal fees. Some community-based entities may be exempt from liquor licensing requirements.
From 1 January 2009 all liquor licences in Queensland will be re-categorised into the new streamlined licence types under the amended Liquor Act 1992 (Liquor Act). On 12 December 2008, the Government promulgated the amendments to the Liquor Regulation 2002, which sets out the new annual licence fee structure. Small bars in Queensland must have limited seating for no more than 60 patrons at any one time. In contrast to a commercial hotel licence (which has a base annual fee of $2,700), the annual licence fee for a bar licence will be $500, plus any additional fees for other risk factors (see below).
This service provides public information of premises with an approved liquor licence in Queensland including details of the licensee; licensed area description; approved trading hours; gaming licence information if applicable and any licence conditions. No confidential information will be disclosed via this search. For custom searches including liquor licence annual fee payments and/or adverse compliance history please contact the Office of Liquor and Gaming Regulation Customer Service Team on (07) 3224 7131 or liquorandgaminglicensing@justice.qld.gov.au. From August 2014, a new option to pay an annual flat rate fee of $3,500 will make it easier for high volume users of the service to conduct an unlimited number of online detailed licence searches as part of an annual subscription.
From 1 July 2013 a $35.45 fee is applied for searches of detailed liquor licence information. The fee will ensure we can continue to support and improve this service into the future. Please note that licensees may access a full copy of their own licence details at no cost through the client portal. From August 2014, a new option to pay an annual flat rate fee of $3,500 will make it easier for high volume users of the service to conduct an unlimited number of online detailed licence searches as part of an annual subscription.
Liquor Licensing Consultants. Liquor Licensing Consultants are Queensland’s oldest firm of licensing consultants to the liquor and gaming industry. They are an experienced and knowledgeable team that can provide you with guidance and assistance in all aspects of liquor and gaming licences. Since 1992, Liquor Licensing Consultants have worked with a variety of businesses in the hospitality industry and fully understand the pressures. Read more ..
There are many licence types available under the Liquor Act 1992. The right one for you will depend on the nature or the ‘primary purpose’ of your business. They include: 1  Commercial Hotel (hotel or tavern). 2  Commercial Special Facility (casinos, airport, community centres and other significant tourism facilities). 
1 Contact OLGR for more information about liquor licensing. 2  Check the fees and charges for Queensland liquor and wine licensing. 3  Learn more about compliance for liquor licensees. 4  Read the Liquor Act 1992 (PDF, 1.97MB) . The type of liquor or wine licence you need depends on the type of business or organisation you want to operate. Each liquor licence has different requirements, and different application and renewal fees. Some community-based entities may be exempt from liquor licensing requirements.