There are many combinations of MTHFR: 1  Homozygous: means you have both copies of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, one from from each parent. 2  Heterozygous: means you have one copy of either the 677 mutation, or the 1298 mutation, plus a normal one from the other parent.
Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely.utations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.
Mutation. Definition. noun, plural: mutations. (general). A change in or the process of changing, e.g. nature, form or quality. (genetics). (1) A permanent, heritable change in the nucleotide sequence in a gene or a chromosome; the process in which such a change occurs in a gene or in a chromosome.
Mutations. Mutation is a change in DNA, the hereditary material of life. An organism's DNA affects how it looks, how it behaves, and its physiology  all aspects of its life. So a change in an organism's DNA can cause changes in all aspects of its life. Mutations are random.
De novo mutations may explain genetic disorders in which an affected child has a mutation in every cell in the body but the parents do not, and there is no family history of the disorder.n some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.
The word mutation means a change in the genetic composition of a cell. Mutations can be divided into two main groups. The first group is gene mutations. These are chemical changes in the DNA [DNA: The material inside the nucleus of cells, carrying genetic information.DNA stands for Deoxyribonucleic Acid.] of the cell.
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements.utations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.
(biology) an organism that has characteristics resulting from chromosomal alteration. mutation, genetic mutation, chromosomal mutation (noun). (genetics) any event that changes genetic structure; any alteration in the inherited nucleic acid sequence of the genotype of an organism.
Definition. A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed. 
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.