What is Moxibustion. Moxibustion is a technique used in traditional Chinese medicine in which a stick or cone of burning mugwort, Artemesia vulgaris, is placed over an inflamed or affected area on the body. The cone is placed on an acupuncture point and burned. The cones is removed before burning the skin. Moxibustion is also used to treat inflammations. For example, if treating a patient with tendinitis, the moxa stick is burned over the elbow area. It is also highly regarded for menstrual cramps, where the stick is waved over the abdominal area. Often, the cramps disappear immediately.
Moxibustion Therapy. Tweet. Print Print. Moxibustion therapy is a Traditional Chinese Medicine treatment that assists in dispelling cold and damp from the body. It is useful in helping with a wide range of conditions, including aches and pains, colds and flu, and even poor digestion. Read on to learn more. Direct moxibustion is used to stimulate specific points or, in scarring moxibustion, a point is burnt so that it is continuously stimulated by the healing process. Indirect moxibustion is used when a larger area such as a meridian or muscle group is to be treated. It is also preferred in the treatment of children.
Moxibustion therapy literally means the burning of moxa. It is a therapy that can prevent and treat diseases with heat stimulation on acupoints or related parts of the body. Moxa, the leaf of Artemisia Argyi, from the compositae family, is a perennial, herbaceous plant. 
_ Moxibustion is a traditional Chinese medicine technique that involves the burning of mugwort, a small, spongy herb, to facilitate healing. Moxibustion has been used throughout Asia for thousands of years; in fact, the actual Chinese character for acupuncture, translated literally, means acupuncture-moxibustion.. _ Cupping is a healing therapy used in Traditional Chinese Medicine that works by stimulating the meridians, the subtle channels of energy that run through the body. Cupping is used to remove toxins and help energy move around the body.
Moxibustion therapy in conjunction with acupuncture can be very effective for many diseases and conditions including back pain, muscle stiffness, headaches, migraines, tendonitis, arthritis, digestive disorders, anxiety, and female health problems such as menstrual cramps, irregular periods, and infertility. 
Available scientific evidence does not support claims that moxibustion is effective in preventing or treating cancer or any other disease, but it plays an important role in the traditional medical systems of China (including Tibet), Japan, Korea, Vietnam, and Mongolia. Direct scarring moxibustion places a small cone of moxa on the skin at an acupuncture point and burns it until the skin blisters, which then scars after it heals. Direct non-scarring moxibustion removes the burning moxa before the skin burns enough to scar, unless the burning moxa is left on the skin too long.
Practitioners of Chinese medicine usually receive limited training in moxibustion therapy. The training is mainly comprised of presentation of a few basic moxa techniques and a listing of some indications for use of moxibustion (e.g., to treat cold syndromes) and contraindications (e.g., in heat syndromes). Moxibustion therapy is effective in simple and infantile diarrhea, chronic gastroenteritis, peptic ulcer, bronchial asthma, rheumatism of muscles and joints, neurasthenia, hypertension, menstrual disorders, chronic pelvic inflammation, and climacteric syndrome [menopause].
Moxibustion is a traditional Chinese medicine technique used in conjunction with acupuncture to enhance its effect. In this technique, a Chinese herb called mugwort or Artemisia Vulgaris is used to heat an acupuncture point, particularly in the treatment of certain debilitating conditions as well as arthritis and pain. 
Moxibustion is a form of heat therapy in which dried plant materials called moxa are burned on or very near the surface of the skin. Moxibustion is used for: 1  Pain due to injury or arthritis, especially in cold patterns where the pain naturally feels better with the application of heat. 2  Digestive problems and irregular elimination. 3  Gynecological and obstetrical conditions, including breech presentation in late term pregnancy.