Seven safety net hospitals have been designated to receive DSTI funds, including Boston Medical Center, Cambridge Health Alliance, Holyoke Medical Center, Lawrence General Hospital, Mercy Medical Center, Signature Healthcare Brockton Hospital, and Steward Carney Hospital. Health IT infrastructure improvements will be part of healthcare delivery changes supported by federal and state funding. Safety net hospitals in Massachusetts are set to receive $628 million in federal and state funds to transform how they deliver healthcare in accordance with healthcare reform principles.
It is used to reduce the flame travel length that reduces knocking in engines in bikes.... yokeshram Oct 18th, 2011 dtsi means digital twin spark technology.it is only used in bajaj company. there will be two spark plug,so that there will be less chance of unburned fuel. It improves the mileage and efficiency. DTSI stands for DOUBLE TWIN SPARK IGNITION. two/double spark plugs are used in DTSI engines for better combustion of fuel in cylinder head.. srmyst Profile Answers by srmyst Mar 25th, 2012 DTSI stands for Digital Twin Spark Ignition. It is used to get better cumbustion in cumbustion chamber.
Nigerian basketball team bounces back with rebrand by Dalby, Alexa / African Business. At the handover ceremony Dr Elijah Ngurare, Director, MultChoice Namibia Board, said that Onehoni Combined School received a flat screen television, mounting bracket, 
Our international ISO 9001:2008 management system demonstrates strictly applied standards with an innovative approach to continuous improvement. A variety of audits of our quality management system are undertaken, including internal audits and external audits by customers or third parties. DSTI recognizes that the disciplines of Quality, Health and Safety and Environmental management are an integral part of its management function. The Company views these as a primary responsibility and the key to good business in adopting appropriate Quality standards.
The Bajaj Pulsar is a motorcycle brand owned by Bajaj Auto in India. The two wheeler was developed by the product engineering division of Bajaj Auto in association with Tokyo R&D, and later with motorcycle designer Glynn Kerr. Bajaj Auto holds an Indian patent for the DTSi technology. The Alfa Romeo Twin-Spark engines, the BMW F650 Funduro which was sold in India from 1995 to 1997 also had a twin-spark plug technology, and the Rotax motorcycle engines, more recently Honda's iDSI Vehicle engines use a similar arrangement of two spark-plugs.
We conduct our operations to ensure that our people work together and take responsibility for the health and safety of ourselves and others, to minimize our impact on the environment and ensure the best quality in products and services. DSTI recognizes that the disciplines of Quality, Health and Safety and Environmental management are an integral part of its management function. The Company views these as a primary responsibility and the key to good business in adopting appropriate Quality standards.
DSTI's outstanding safety record is an outcome of wide-ranging and proactive safety procedures managed by a team of quality and safety professionals. DSTI recognizes that the disciplines of Quality, Health and Safety and Environmental management are an integral part of its management function. The Company views these as a primary responsibility and the key to good business in adopting appropriate Quality standards.
1. A usually soft and close-fitting head covering, either having no brim or with a visor. 2. a. A special head covering worn to indicate rank, occupation, or membership in a particular group: a cardinal's cap; a sailor's cap. b. An academic mortarboard. Used especially in the phrase cap and gown. To cover, protect, or seal with a cap. 2. To award a special cap to as a sign of rank or achievement: capped the new women nurses at graduation. 3. To lie over or on top of; cover: hills capped with snow. 4. To apply the finishing touch to; complete: cap a meal with dessert. 5.
As documented by Clement (2010), the term macroprudential was first used in the late 1970s in unpublished documents of the Cooke Committee (the precursor of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision) and the Bank of England. In the aftermath of the late-2000s financial crisis, there is a growing consensus among policymakers and economic researchers about the need to re-orient the regulatory framework towards a macroprudential perspective.