Learn more about Throttle Body Service. This is a national average for all makes and models, but you can make it more accurate by adding your car info and ZIP. This is a national average for all makes and models, but you can make it more accurate by adding your car info and ZIP. Throttle Body Cleaning Cost. Learn more RepairPrice Estimates are based on the estimated time for the repair, labor rates charged by trained automotive professionals, and prices for quality parts.
A complete throttle body service is recommended every 15,000, 40,000, and 75,000 miles to be sure that the automobile is functioning properly. It is most important to have the throttle body serviced regularly to avoid the high cost of replacement. The cost of throttle body service or replacing the throttle body varies with the year, make, and model of the car. But, no matter what that year, model, or make may be, replacement is not inexpensive
1 On average, the price of this service can range anywhere from $50 to as much as $200. 2  Many dealers will not do this job independently, but rather they will combine this with other preventative maintenance packages. 3  ACarPlace.com is an establishment that offers packaged services to their customers. 1 ACarPlace.com is an establishment that offers packaged services to their customers. 2  According to their site, the cost to have your car maintained, which includes throttle body service, can be anywhere from $460 to $700.
1 Throttle body service is performed by automotive mechanics, and the cost can differ depending on the rate the mechanic charges for the service. 2  The whole procedure usually only takes about twenty minutes. 1 ACarPlace.com is an establishment that offers packaged services to their customers. 2  According to their site, the cost to have your car maintained, which includes throttle body service, can be anywhere from $460 to $700.
1 The make and model of the car can also make a difference. 2  On average, the price of this service can range anywhere from $50 to as much as $200. 3  Many dealers will not do this job independently, but rather they will combine this with other preventative maintenance packages. 1 ACarPlace.com is an establishment that offers packaged services to their customers. 2  According to their site, the cost to have your car maintained, which includes throttle body service, can be anywhere from $460 to $700.
Parts: $5 - $12. The average cost for a throttle body service is between $195 to $253. Labor costs are estimated between $190 to $241 while parts are priced between $5 to $12. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. Throttle Body Cleaning Cost. Learn more RepairPrice Estimates are based on the estimated time for the repair, labor rates charged by trained automotive professionals, and prices for quality parts.
Throttle body service is the throttle body cleaning and wiping of the bore and throttle blade. The service is important in order to keep the automobile running smoothly, efficiently, and safely. It is most important to have the throttle body serviced regularly to avoid the high cost of replacement. The cost of throttle body service or replacing the throttle body varies with the year, make, and model of the car.
Throttle body cleaning is a type of automobile service that involves cleaning and wiping the bore and throttle blade. The service is usually done to fix idle problems. It can also be performed every year to ensure the efficiency and safety of a vehicle and to avoid costly replacements. The cost to clean a throttle body generally depends on labor rates and items used to perform the cleanup. 1  On average, the national average cost of throttle body cleaning is $180 to $275
The throttle position sensor reports the position of the gas pedal to the computer in your car (Engine Control Unit). The computer then determines the position of the throttle plate. It also calculates the amount of air flow to the engine and the amount of fuel to be injected for the required ratio of air-fuel mixture. 