Having a Data Dictionary that lists all Tables, Variables, and metadata is a key tool for Researchers, Analysts, or Users. However, if the database is in Oracle, creating one is not the easiest task; one is required to have extensive knowledge of the System Tables, and how to extract useable data from them. 
Creating the Data Dictionary. When you use the Database Configuration Assistant to create a database, Oracle automatically creates the data dictionary. Thereafter, whenever the database is in operation, Oracle updates the data dictionary in response to every DDL statement
We are using Oracle 8i and I am wondering how I can create a data dictionary from our database. The data dictionary is created when you initially create the database with the CREATE DATABASE command. The data dictionary tables are owned by SYS and are accessed through DBA_, ALL_ and USER_ views. If you want to know what is in your data dictionary, query the appropriate views. Never update the data dictionary manually! Let the database update it when you issue CREATE, ALTER or DROP commands.
The data dictionary base tables store information about all user-defined objects in the database. Table B-1 lists required scripts, which are run automatically when you create a database using the Database Configuration Assistant. When you use the Database Configuration Assistant to create a database, Oracle automatically creates the data dictionary. Thereafter, whenever the database is in operation, Oracle updates the data dictionary in response to every DDL stateme
All the data dictionary tables and views for a given database are stored in that database's SYSTEM tablespace (see The SYSTEM Tablespace). Not only is the data dictionary central to every Oracle database, it is an important tool for all users, from end users to application designers and database administrators. Data in the base tables of the data dictionary is necessary for Oracle to function. Therefore, only Oracle should write or change data dictionary information. During database operation, Oracle reads the data dictionary to ascertain that schema objects exist and that users have proper access to them.
Example of a Data Dictionary and Oracle SQL. Below is a Simple data dictionary. Creating a data dictionary first makes creating tables in SQL easier. There are many variations to the data dictionary, however create one that will include everything you plan on coding later. 
Data in the base tables of the data dictionary is necessary for Oracle Database to function. Therefore, only Oracle Database should write or change data dictionary information. Oracle Database provides scripts to modify the data dictionary tables when a database is upgraded or downgraded. During database operation, Oracle Database reads the data dictionary to ascertain that schema objects exist and that users have proper access to them. The views of the data dictionary serve as a reference for all database users. Access the data dictionary views with SQL statements. Some views are accessible to all Oracle Database users, and others are intended for database administrators only.
You can find the data dictionary tables documented in the Oracle Database 10g Reference Guide, which is part of the overall Oracle database documentation set. There are almost 600 DBA views in Oracle Database 10g alone, and a like number of USER and ALL views. The Purpose of the Data Dictionary. Metadata is data about data, or data that defines other data. The Oracle data dictionary is metadata about the database. For example, if you create a table in Oracle, metadata about that table is stored in the data dictionary. Such things as column names, length, and other attributes are stored. Thus, the data dictionary contains a great volume of useful information about your database