1 In the 2003 film X2: X-Men United, Nightcrawler is played by Alan Cumming. 2  In the film, Nightcrawler is brainwashed with a fluid from William Stryker 's mutant son Jason, in order to attempt an assassination on the President of the United States. 3  He helps the X-Men infiltrate Stryker's base on Alkali Lake. Nightcrawler is originally stated to be from a small village called Witzeldorf in the German state of Bavaria. In the X-Men animated series, it is said to be Neuherzl, and in the film X2, he makes repeated references to his time in the Munich circus, though it is never explicitly specified from where he originated.
Jake Gyllenhaal wears a Breitling Chronomat watch in the movie Nightcrawler. The watch has a steel band, steel case, white dial with date window at the 3 o'clock position and three subdials. Jake Gyllenhaal stars in this film with Rene Russo, Riz Ahmed, and Bill Paxton. The Breitling Chronomat watch worn by Jake Gyllenhaal in the movie Nightcrawler. Breitling Chronomat Evolution A13356, a very similar, or maybe the same watch as seen in Nightcrawler (it's hard to tell from the film screenshots).
Nightcrawler (Kurt Wagner) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics, commonly in association with the X-Men. Created by writer Len Wein and artist Dave Cockrum, he debuted in the comic book Giant-Size X-Men #1 (May 1975). Nightcrawler is originally stated to be from a small village called Witzeldorf in the German state of Bavaria. In the X-Men animated series, it is said to be Neuherzl, and in the film X2, he makes repeated references to his time in the Munich circus, though it is never explicitly specified from where he originated.
Since his inception, Nightcrawler has had a regular presence in Marvel-related comic books and video games. He has been featured in a small number of the 1990s X-Men animated series episodes and was a regular on its successors, X-Men: Evolution and Wolverine and the X-Men. Nightcrawler is originally stated to be from a small village called Witzeldorf in the German state of Bavaria. In the X-Men animated series, it is said to be Neuherzl, and in the film X2, he makes repeated references to his time in the Munich circus, though it is never explicitly specified from where he originated.
Nightcrawler, a film starring and produced by Jake Gyllenhaal, exposes the seedy underbelly of a lesser-known profession: the 'stringers' that take full advantage of the twilight hours. Together, they film and photograph horrifying crime scenes for the next morning's news. 
Nightcrawler is a 2014 American neo-noir crime thriller film written and directed by Dan Gilroy in his directorial debut. The film stars Jake Gyllenhaal as a former thief who starts shooting footage of accidents and crimes in Los Angeles, selling the content to local news channels as a stringer. It features Rene Russo, Riz Ahmed, and Bill Paxton. Nightcrawler opened on October 31, 2014 in 2,766 theaters and grossed $10.4 million, with an average of $3,775 per theater and ranking #2 at the box office. The film had earned $32.4 million in the United States and Canada and $9.4 million in other countries.
1 Another popular theory is that John Wraith, who appeared in X-Men Origins: Wolverine, is Nightcrawler's father due to his teleporting abilities. 2  This was even confirmed in the movie's tie-in game, though it's non-canon. “My name is Kurt Wagner, but in the Munich circus I was known as the Incredible Nightcrawler.”. ―Nightcrawler. Nightcrawler (Kurt Wagner) is a mutant who is part of the X-Men.
Nightcrawler is the kind of film that will catch audiences by surprise with its painstaking thoughtfulness, and features the kind of lead character that will be discussed in film circles who don't detest American cinema and actually give it the benefit of the doubt. You leave the movie theatre with a slightly sick feeling of guilt after watching Nightcrawler. Guilt that you actually enjoyed this rather original movie-making set in an ethical and moral vacuum. In that sense the movie is entirely ironic.
The film had its world premiere at the Special Presentations section of the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival. It was released theatrically by Open Road Films on October 31, 2014. It received critical acclaim and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay at 87th Academy Awards. Nightcrawler opened on October 31, 2014 in 2,766 theaters and grossed $10.4 million, with an average of $3,775 per theater and ranking #2 at the box office. The film had earned $32.4 million in the United States and Canada and $9.4 million in other countries.