DNA transcription is a process that involves transcribing genetic information from DNA to RNA. The transcribed DNA message, or RNA transcript, is used to produce proteins. DNA is housed within the nucleus of our cells. It controls cellular activity by coding for the production of proteins.
Initiation The enzyme that does the most work in transcription is RNA polymerase, which is similar to DNA polymerase in DNA replication. RNA polymerase first attaches to the promoter region of the DNA strand, a few nucleotides downstream from the starting point.
Transcription is the process by which the genetic information in DNA is written to the m-RNA. The m-RNA molecule then passes on the information to t-RNA which writes it to r-RNA.
transcription - (genetics) the organic process whereby the DNA sequence in a gene is copied into mRNA; the process whereby a base sequence of messenger RNA is synthesized on a template of complementary DNA. genetic science, genetics-the branch of biology that studies heredity and variation in organisms.
Transcription. Definition. noun. It is the process of transcribing or making a copy of genetic information stored in a DNA strand into a complementary strand of RNA (messenger RNA or mRNA) with the aid of RNA polymerases.
1 Elongation. 2  Certain proteins called transcription factors unwind the DNA strand and allow RNA polymerase to transcribe only a single strand of DNA into a single stranded RNA polymer called messenger RNA (mRNA). 3  The strand that serves as the template is called the antisense strand.
Transcription is the synthesis of an mRNA molecule using a DNA molecule for a template. That mRNA molecule then goes on to complete translation in the ribosome. Translation is … the process in which proteins are produced based on instructions carried by mRNA.
Transcription is the process in which the code on DNA is copied and creates a strand of messenger RNA (mRNA). This is necessary because the mRNA needs to take the genetic info … rmation to the ribosome so that the proteins can be made.