A tunnel called a Ramp typically connects the bottom of the shaft with the rest of the mine, this Ramp often contains the mine's water handling facility, called the Sump, as water will naturally flow to the lowest point in the mine. Shafts may be sunk by conventional drill and blast or mechanised means. If the shaft is used for mine ventilation, a plenum space or casing is incorporated into the collar to ensure the proper flow of air into and out of the mine. Beneath the Collar the part of the shaft which continues into the ground is called the Shaft Barrel.
Equipment is taken into the mine using this shaft, too. Short tunnels to the ore are dug from that man shaft. When the ore is dynamited and broken into chunks, it is taken to the top and loaded into trucks through a second shaft. There is usually an air shaft that gives the mine ventilation. Horizon or horizontal mining can be applied to extraction of materia … l from seams of any stratified mineral such as limestone or ironstone, but it is more usually associated with coal-particularly where there are several seams that are inclined or folded and/or faulted.
The mine shaft is used to admission to an underground mining capability. Horizontal workings off the shaft are known as drifts, galleries or levels. These expand from the central shaft towards the ore body. The point of contact among these levels and the shaft itself is called the inset, shaft station or plat. Underground mining is selected when the rock or mineral is so far to reach using surface mining. Shaft mining is the kind of mine that you normally see in movies where the miner travels straight down into a profound, dark tunnel until he reaches the base.
An adit.   In North America, the horizontal or sloped entrance to a mine is  called a Portal.   Portal more specifically refers to the portion of the shaft visible …  from the outside of the mine.   In some areas, the Portal portion of a horizontal shaft is called  the Drift Mouth or Drift Portal as this shaft leads into a  Drift Mine.   With a vertical shaft, that portion would be called a Collar.
When the top of the excavation is the ground surface, it is referred to as a shaft; when the top of the excavation is underground, it is called a winze or a sub-shaft. Small shafts may be excavated upwards from within an existing mine as long as there is access at the bottom, in which case they are called Raises. A shaft may be either vertical or inclined (between 45 and 90 degrees to the horizontal), although most modern mine shafts are vertical. If the shaft is used for mine ventilation, a plenum space or casing is incorporated into the collar to ensure the proper flow of air into and out of the mine. Beneath the Collar the part of the shaft which continues into the ground is called the Shaft Barrel.
An adit (from Latin aditus, entrance) is an entrance to an underground mine which is horizontal or nearly horizontal, by which the mine can be entered, drained of water, ventilated, and minerals extracted at the lowest convenient level. Adits are also used to explore for mineral veins. Mines that have adits can be at least partly drained of water by gravity alone or power-assisted gravity. The depth to which a mine can be drained by gravity alone is defined by the deepest open adit which is known as the drainage adit.
Shafts are equipped with skips, cages, rail or conveyor transportation, and—during the construction stage—buckets. The upper portion of the shaft has an opening from the earth’s surface called the mouth or collar; the lower portion, below the level of the pit bottom, is called the sump. The shafts usually have a round cross section, although rectangular and, less frequently, elliptic shafts are also found. 
Shafts are vertical or inclined passages which connect the underground workings of the mine with the surface. The top of a shaft is called the collar. Shafts are primarily used for haulage and personnel access. A secondary shaft which has been driven down from within the mine is called a winze. A secondary shaft which has been driven upwards from within the mine is called a raise. Winzes and raises are mainly used as air shafts, ore chutes, manways or for exploratory purposes. Within a drift, the roof is called the back and the side walls are called the rib. The floor may sometimes be referred to as the sill. Headframes are wood or steel structures constructed over a mine shaft or winze to support pulleys used with cables and hoists for haulage and access.