Expediting a passport. You can get your passport expedited in roughly two to three weeks (door-to-door) via the State Department when you pay an extra $60 plus $12.85 for overnight delivery in addition to the standard processing fees. 
Passport fees. A standard adult first passport or renewal costs £72.50, or £82.25 if you use the Post Office’s Passport Check and Send service. Child passports cost £46, or £55.75 using Check and Send. You can’t get a refund if you cancel your application or you’re not entitled to a passport
The cost of a passport can vary depending on the type of service you require, how quickly you need to get the application processed and any additional services you might need. There is an application fee for most services ranging from only $15 for a passport card for a minor to $110 for a new passport or renewal. An execution fee of $25 is mandatory when submitting Form DS-11. This is paid to the agent that adjudicates the application. The fees for some of the optional services are $60 for expedited service, $14.85 for overnight delivery of your new passport and $150 for a file search
RushMyPassport.com is registered, but not affiliated, with the US Government. We charge an additional fee to expedite your passport in 1-12 days. If you are not in a rush, you can obtain a passport directly from the U.S. Department of State in 4-7 weeks. 
The lowest possible price would be about $50 for the renewal of a passport card for an adult. This would include the application fee, passport photo and postage. The highest amount an applicant might spend to get a passport can reach $750 or more. There is an application fee for most services ranging from only $15 for a passport card for a minor to $110 for a new passport or renewal. An execution fee of $25 is mandatory when submitting Form DS-11. This is paid to the agent that adjudicates the application.
1 The total cost to get photos and apply for a passport can run $50-$175. 2  The Department of State Passport Fees website breaks down all the standard government fees. 3  Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $60 for children. 1 Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 2  Applicants must also submit two 2-inch by 2-inch color photos with the passport application. 3  Passport photos cost about $15, and can be taken at certain branches of the US Post Office, FedEx and UPS stores and photography studios.
1 The Department of State Passport Fees website breaks down all the standard government fees. 2  Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $60 for children. 3  Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 1 Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 2  Applicants must also submit two 2-inch by 2-inch color photos with the passport application. 3  Passport photos cost about $15, and can be taken at certain branches of the US Post Office, FedEx and UPS stores and photography studios.
1 Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $60 for children. 2  Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 3  Applicants must also submit two 2-inch by 2-inch color photos with the passport application. 1 Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 2  Applicants must also submit two 2-inch by 2-inch color photos with the passport application. 3  Passport photos cost about $15, and can be taken at certain branches of the US Post Office, FedEx and UPS stores and photography studios.
Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below. Overnight delivery service is not available for passport cards, which are delivered via First Class Mail only. To request Overnight Delivery, pay the $14.85 Overnight Delivery fee for each application, in addition to the required fees noted above.