This is called inducing labor, or induction. Instead of waiting for labor to start naturally, your doctor or midwife will use drugs or a procedure to start it sooner. Induction can be the right choice for some women, but it has risks. A test showed your baby might have a problem. If your baby is not growing normally or has an abnormal heart rate, your doctor or midwife might want to induce labor.
1. indue-give qualities or abilities to. endow, endue, gift, invest, empower. enable-render capable or able for some task; This skill will enable you to find a job on Wall Street; The rope enables you to secure yourself when you climb the mountain. 
1 Your water breaks and your labor doesn't start on its own. 2  In this case, you'll be induced to decrease the risk of infection to your uterus and your baby, which is more of a concern once your membranes have ruptured. ( 3 However, if your baby is still very premature, your practitioner may hold off on inducing labor.). Emergency home birth. Find out what to do if you have to deliver your baby before you get to the hospital. Labor complication: Big baby (macrosomia). Find out what causes macrosomia and what recovery will be like.
The only stupid question is the one that is not asked. (English proverb). It is easy to cut the tail of a dead wolf. (Albanian proverb). The earth is a beehive; we all enter by the same door but live in different cells. (African proverb). Stretch your legs as far as your quilt goes. (Egyptian proverb). 
Undue influence is the most common ground for will contests and are often accompanied by a capacity challenge. That is, someone in possession of full mental capacity is not likely to be swayed by undue influence, manipulation, or coercion. In probate law, undue influence is generally defined as a testator 's loss of free agency regarding property disposition through contemporaneous psychological domination by an advisor, resulting in an excessive benefit to the advisor.
You are 1 to 2 weeks past your due date. After 41 weeks, you and your baby are at greater risk for complications. Your water breaks but labor doesn’t start. Once your water breaks, you and your baby have a higher risk of infection. A test showed your baby might have a problem. If your baby is not growing normally or has an abnormal heart rate, your doctor or midwife might want to induce labor.
If your labor doesn't start on its own, your practitioner can use medication and other techniques to bring on (or induce) contractions. She can use some of the same methods to augment, or speed up, your labor if it stops progressing for some reason. Emergency home birth. Find out what to do if you have to deliver your baby before you get to the hospital. Labor complication: Big baby (macrosomia). Find out what causes macrosomia and what recovery will be like.
We integrate financial payment products and settlement services to deliver powerful results. Indue’s dual focus on services and software brings with it a unique combination of customer benefits. We offer the stability, reputation and reliability of a longstanding and respected business; coupled with the ingenuity, technical authority and creativity of a software developer. Added to that, our ADI status means that we are a safe, regulated entity with the capability to manage the most complicated transactions. In short, we have the credibility and human capital to be trusted with the complexities of our clients’ businesses. We also think creatively to tailor and customise solutions.
What we do. Indue’s dual focus on services and software brings with it a unique combination of customer benefits. We offer the stability, reputation and reliability of a longstanding and respected business; coupled with the ingenuity, technical authority and creativity of a software developer. Added to that, our ADI status means that we are a safe, regulated entity with the capability to manage the most complicated transactions. In short, we have the credibility and human capital to be trusted with the complexities of our clients’ businesses. We also think creatively to tailor and customise solutions.
The law permits loved ones and confidants to advise and comfort those in need of their support without fear of litigation. Courts are also aware that the doctrine of undue influence can be used as a sword by the vindictive and avaricious who seek to invalidate a perfectly legal transaction for personal gain. 