[ 1 syll. bran -(c)(h), br-an-ch ] The baby boy name Branch is pronounced as BR AH NCH- †. Branch is largely used in English and it is also derived from English origins. The name Branch means branch. The name Branche is a variant transcription of Branch. Branch is not popular as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 
Branch /branch/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Branch is paw; extension. A place name that probably refers to a branch in a river or a path. Kreatif forms: Branchbu, Branchry, Bubranch. Branch is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#967 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Branch for boys.
The noun BRANCH has 6 senses: 1. an administrative division of some larger or more complex organization. 2. a division of a stem, or secondary stem arising from the main stem of a plant. 3. a part of a forked or branching shape. 4. a natural consequence of development. The verb BRANCH has 2 senses: 1. grow and send out branches or branch-like structures. 2. divide into two or more branches so as to form a fork. Familiarity information: BRANCH used as a verb is rare.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: branch (Noun). The woody part of a tree arising from the trunk and usually dividing. branch (Noun). Something that divides like the branch of a tree. branch (Noun). A location of an organization with several locations. A geographically separate unit of an activity, which performs all or part of the primary functions of the parent activity on a smaller scale. Unlike an annex, a branch is not merely an overflow addition. 3. An arm or service of the Army.
To produce branches. branch (Verb). To jump to a different location in a program, especially as the result of a conditional statement. Origin: From branche, from branca, possibly from Gaulish *vranca, akin to Old Norse vro, Vró lithuanian, Ranka Rankà Old church, Slavonic rǫka. albanian range rangë A geographically separate unit of an activity, which performs all or part of the primary functions of the parent activity on a smaller scale. Unlike an annex, a branch is not merely an overflow addition. 3. An arm or service of the Army.
Hypernyms (branch is a kind of...): stalk; stem (a slender or elongated structure that supports a plant or fungus or a plant part or plant organ). Meronyms (parts of branch): bark (tough protective covering of the woody stems and roots of trees and other woody plants). The verb BRANCH has 2 senses: 1. grow and send out branches or branch-like structures. 2. divide into two or more branches so as to form a fork. Familiarity information: BRANCH used as a verb is rare.
branch out. 1. Lit. [for a branch] to grow out of a branch or trunk. (Having to do with plants and trees.) A twig branched out of the main limb and grew straight up. The bush branched out from the base. To grow out of a tree trunk or branch: I like to sit on a large limb that branches out from the apple tree. 3. To expand the scope of one's interests or activities into a new area or areas: At first I studied only Latin, but later I branched out and began learning other languages, too. See also: branch, out.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of branch): branchlet; sprig; twig (a small branch or division of a branch (especially a terminal division); usually applied to branches of the current or preceding year). limb; tree branch (any of the main branches arising from the trunk or a bough of a tree). The verb BRANCH has 2 senses: 1. grow and send out branches or branch-like structures. 2. divide into two or more branches so as to form a fork. Familiarity information: BRANCH used as a verb is rare.