The Addicks Reservoir spillway is located at, , and releases the remainder of Bear Creek just north of Buffalo Bayou. Addicks Reservoir and Dam get their name from the former town of Addicks, TX. Addicks Reservoir is formed by a rolled earthen dam 61,666 feet long and above the streambed. A 12-foot wide gravel road extends along the top of the dam. The top of the dam has a maximum elevation of 122.7 feet above the N.G.V.D. Addicks Reservoir is situated on the north side of Interstate 10, it extends slightly north of Clay Rd., and between Barker-Cypress Rd. to the west and Sam Houston Tollway to the east.
Welcome to Addicks and Barker reservoirs, a place where visitors can find peace and quiet in the middle of a throbbing metropolitan area. Located about 17 miles from downtown Houston, both Addicks and Barker reservoirs lie entirely within the boundaries of this growing city. 
Addicks, a railroad stop for the Bear Creek community, was named after its original postmaster, Henry Addicks, in 1884. The original town site was located just south of the intersection of Patterson Road and Highway 6. The Addicks Bear Creek Cemetery contains the graves of many of the original German settlers. By 1947 the community was forced to move several miles south near the current intersection of I-10 and Highway 6 since the old location became the site for the Addicks Reservoir. Many of the old buildings can still be found.
WATERSHED OVERVIEW. The Addicks Reservoir watershed is located in western Harris County with a small portion crossing into eastern Waller County. Rainfall within the 138 square miles of the Addicks Reservoir watershed drains to the watershed’s primary waterway, Langham Creek (U100-00-00).
ADDICKS, TX. ADDICKS, TEXAS. Addicks, known at various times as Letitia, Bear Hill, and Bear Creek, is just north of Interstate Highway 10 on the outskirts of Houston in western Harris County.
GALVESTON, Texas-Q. Where are the dams located? A. The Addicks and Barker Dams and Reservoirs are located in southeast Texas in the San Jacinto River basin approximately 17 miles west of downtown Houston. The reservoirs are strategically located above the confluence of Buffalo Bayou and South Mayde Creek. Any dam safety issues at Addicks and Barker could have a far greater impact due to the magnitude of people and property downstream, as opposed to other dams around the country located in rural or low-population density areas.
The Addicks Bear Creek Methodist Church, founded in 1879, is a historical building and can be found on the east side of Highway 6 near Addicks Dam. The church is now known as Addicks United Methodist Church [1] . Other old buildings located near the southeast corner of I-10 and Highway 6, make up a trendy area of shops, antique stores, and restaurants. The City of Houston annexed the Addicks-Barker Reservoir area in 1972. By 1947 the community was forced to move several miles south near the current intersection of I-10 and Highway 6 since the old location became the site for the Addicks Reservoir. Many of the old buildings can still be found.
Any dam safety issues at Addicks and Barker could have a far greater impact due to the magnitude of people and property downstream as opposed to other dams around the country located in rural or low-population density areas.. North of Interstate 10, Barker's younger sibling, Addicks Dam, has also been wiped out by an unstoppable current that starts to overwhelm Buffalo Bayou.
Construction of the dam started in May, 1946 and completed in December 1948. Addicks Dam is a rolled earthen embankment of 61,666 feet long with a maximum height of 49 feet above the streambed. A 12-foot-wide gravel road extends along the top of the dam. The top of the dam has a maximum elevation of 122.7 feet above mean sea level. The spillway is located at, and releases the remainder of Bear Creek just north of Buffalo Bayou. The maximum storage capacity of the reservoir is 204,500 acre feet, encompassing a surface area of 16,780 acres at an elevation of 114