GHIN revises its Handicap Program software on an on-going basis with new and improved added features. The GHIN software poses no additional cost to the clubs or association. As new software features become available, they will be distributed to the clubs as a service from your Golf Association.
If you have resigned your club membership but want to continue to maintain your handicap and GSGA membership... 1  You may transfer your membership to your new club (contact the pro shop). 2  Click here and join one of our online membership clubs and transfer your GHIN number and handicap records there. Membership Renewal. GSGA membership runs on a calendar year basis so you will need to renew your membership each year. You can do that in a couple of different ways: 1  Visit the pro shop at your home club to renew. 2  Click here to renew online at a participating online membership club.
Usually there is an annual charge under $30, however some clubs don't charge a handicap fee for junior golfers. Over 675 clubs in Florida use the GHIN service, so you shouldn't have to look too hard to find one in your area. Your club's GHIN computer must transmit or go through a handicap revision before your GHIN number will be recognize by the FJT website.
GHIN/Non-GHIN Pricing Explanation. The Florida Junior Tour offers reduced membership pricing to juniors who keep their handicap at a member club of the Florida State Golf Association. To be eligible for the price break, the junior or one of his/her parents must have an active GHIN Handicap number at an FSGA full member club in Florida. Over 675 clubs in Florida use the GHIN service, so you shouldn't have to look too hard to find one in your area. Your club's GHIN computer must transmit or go through a handicap revision before your GHIN number will be recognize by the FJT website.
OCTOBER 14, 2014 | By Jonathan Wilhelm, USGA. The China Golf Association (CGA) and its provinces recently took an important step in this regard, adopting the USGA Handicap System and its uniform process for determining USGA Course Rating and Slope Rating, which are used to calculate a Handicap Index. In late September, leaders from the USGA’s Handicapping and Course Rating department traveled to China to celebrate a monumental occasion in global course-rating standards. For the first time, the USGA presented the CGA with a Chinese translation of its Course Rating Guide.
1 You may transfer your membership to your new club (contact the pro shop). 2  Click here and join one of our online membership clubs and transfer your GHIN number and handicap records there. 3  The cost to renew online is $40. Membership Renewal. GSGA membership runs on a calendar year basis so you will need to renew your membership each year. You can do that in a couple of different ways: 1  Visit the pro shop at your home club to renew. 2  Click here to renew online at a participating online membership club.
One of the most important features of the GHIN Handicap Program software is the tremendous flexibility of the program. GHIN services more than 7,700 computerized golf clubs around the country, all with many different needs. The GHIN software poses no additional cost to the clubs or association. As new software features become available, they will be distributed to the clubs as a service from your Golf A
The GHIN service is a handicap system developed by the USGA and serviced by the FSGA. Over 500 clubs in Florida use the GHIN system, these clubs contribute annual dues that fund the activities of the Florida State Golf Association including the Florida Junior Tour. Over 675 clubs in Florida use the GHIN service, so you shouldn't have to look too hard to find one in your area. Your club's GHIN computer must transmit or go through a handicap revision before your GHIN number will be recognize by the FJT website.
The USGA GHIN Handicap Service is available at Byrncliff. Establish (or renew) your official USGA handicap for $20.00 for the 2015 golf season. Golfers that play in any golf league at Byrncliff can pay a special rate $15.00 per person. Click here to go to the GHIN website
You may provide news releases (up to 20 lines of 78 characters per line) to your clubs using GHIN Handicap Program software by submitting the information to GHIN, or utilizing the GHIN VPN Package access to the Enterprise Server. The GHIN software poses no additional cost to the clubs or association. As new software features become available, they will be distributed to the clubs as a service from your Golf A