Croup is common in children and is thought to be triggered after a viral infection. Croup causes swelling in the throat and windpipe (trachea) and causes hoarseness, a barking cough and noisy breathing. Croup usually gets better by itself but sometimes drugs are used to try and improve this condition. Croup is an acute illness commonly seen in children up to six years of age but mostly by the age of two. It is triggered by viral infections causing upper airway obstruction with varying degrees of respiratory distress. Mostly, it is mild and transient and resolves with supportive care. Croup is characterised by a barking cough, hoarseness, varying degrees of inspiratory stridor (abnormal breathing sound) and chest wall retractions and is usually preceded by one to three days of upper respiratory tract infection symptoms
Croup is a condition that causes a swelling of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea). The swelling causes the airway below the vocal cords to become narrow and makes breathing noisy and difficult. It is most commonly caused by an infection. Croup with Stridor. 1  Stridor is common with mild croup, especially when a child is crying or active. 2  But if a child has stridor while resting, it can be a sign of more severe croup. 3  As your child's effort to breathe increases, she may stop eating and drinking.
Croup is a viral infection of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea) associated with signs of a respiratory infection, such as a runny nose or cough. It's also a very common ailment of childhood. Usually the first indication of croup is a cough that sounds like the bark of a dog or seal. Your child may have trouble breathing because the tissue around the larynx is inflamed, constricting the windpipe, and because the bronchial passages are blocked with mucus.
Croup is a term used to describe a variety of respiratory inflammatory conditions that affect the upper respiratory tract, cause swelling, increased mucus production and is usually more common in children. Viral croup is the most common type and is caused by viruses, such as adenoviruses (cold viruses) and influenza (flu) viruses. Viral croup (laryngotracheitis) and recurrent croup (spasmodic) are difficult to distinguish between clinically as both can be associated with viral infections and are similar in appearance.
Croup is an infection of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea). It is often mild and most children soon recover. A steroid medicine is usually prescribed to ease symptoms. In some cases severe breathing difficulties develop. Croup is an infection of the voice box (larynx) and windpipe (trachea). These are the upper and lower parts of the breathing tube that connects the mouth to the top of the lungs. The usual cause of croup is a viral infection. Several viruses can cause croup.
Croup is usually mild and lasts less than a week. More severe cases are due to difficulty breathing caused by swelling in the upper part of the windpipe. 11. 85% of children examined at the emergency room have mild croup. Viral croup is the most common type and is caused by viruses, such as adenoviruses (cold viruses) and influenza (flu) viruses. Viral croup (laryngotracheitis) and recurrent croup (spasmodic) are difficult to distinguish between clinically as both can be associated with viral infections and are similar in appearance.
Viral croup is the most common form of airway obstruction in children six months to six years of age. The frightening nature of croup often prompts parents and caregivers to seek physician consultation. For children with mild croup, symptomatic care and mist therapy may be all that is necessary. 
Urgent care or emergency department treatment of croup depends on the degree of respiratory distress. In mild croup, a child may present with only a croupy cough and may require nothing more than parental reassurance, given alertness, baseline minimal respiratory distress, proper oxygenation, and stable fluid status. 
Croup (or laryngotracheobronchitis) is a respiratory condition that is usually triggered by an acute viral infection of the upper airway. The infection leads to swelling inside the throat, which interferes with normal breathing and produces the classical symptoms of a barking cough, stridor, and hoarseness. Viral croup or acute laryngotracheitis is caused by parainfluenza virus, primarily types 1 and 2, in 75% of cases. Other viral causes include influenza A and B, measles, adenovirus and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV).