Tell your doctor about all other heart or blood pressure medications you are taking. Your chest pain may become worse when you first start taking amlodipine or when your dose is increased. Call your doctor if your chest pain is severe or ongoing. Side Effects Centers. Before taking amlodipine, tell your doctor if you have congestive heart failure or liver disease. Drinking alcohol can further lower your blood pressure and may increase certain side effects of amlodipine.
Q: I have hypertension and take Norvasc 5 mg (amlodipine). A: Hypertension or high blood pressure is a condition where the pressure inside the blood vessels is elevated. Hypertension that is left untreated can cause damage to the heart and other organs and could lead to heart failure or heart attack. A: Norvasc (amlodipine) is a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Studies show that some of the common side effects are dizziness, headache, and rarely fainting as a result of low blood pressure. Some studies suggest that taking at bedtime can alleviate fainting
A: Norvasc (amlodipine) belongs to a class of drugs called calcium channel blockers (CCBs) that relaxes (widens) blood vessels and improves blood flow. Norvasc is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure), angina (chest pain), and other conditions caused by coronary artery disease. A: Norvasc (amlodipine) is a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Studies show that some of the common side effects are dizziness, headache, and rarely fainting as a result of low blood pressure. Some studies suggest that taking at bedtime can alleviate fainting
Your doctor will tell you how many amlodipine tablets to take each day. This will depend on your condition and whether you are taking any other medicines. The usual dose of amlodipine is one 5 mg tablet each day. Your doctor may increase this to one 10 mg tablet each day. How it works. Amlodipine belongs to a group of medicines called calcium channel blockers or calcium ion antagonists. They work by widening your blood vessels, making it easier for your heart to pump blood around the body and help increase the supply of blood and oxygen to your heart.
Amlodipine is in a group of drugs called calcium channel blockers. Amlodipine relaxes (widens) blood vessels and improves blood flow. Amlodipine is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) or chest pain (angina) and other conditions caused by coronary artery disease. Before taking amlodipine, tell your doctor if you have congestive heart failure or liver disease. Drinking alcohol can further lower your blood pressure and may increase certain side effects of amlodipine.
Uses. Amlodipine is used with or without other medications to treat high blood pressure. Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Amlodipine belongs to a class of drugs known as calcium channel blockers. It works by relaxing blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. Amlodipine is also used to prevent certain types of chest pain (angina). A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
1 You may have to take high blood pressure medicine for the rest of your life. 2  If high blood pressure is not treated, it can cause serious problems such as heart failure, blood vessel disease, stroke, or kidney disease. For patients taking this medicine for high blood pressure: 1  In addition to the use of the medicine, treatment for your high blood pressure may include weight control and a change in the types of food you eat, especially foods high in sodium (salt). 2  Your doctor will tell you which of these are most important for you.
Taken regularly, Norvasc can control angina, but it doesn't stop chest pain after it has already begun. The drug can also lower a person's risk of cardiovascular events related to high blood pressure, such as strokes and heart attacks. A: Norvasc (amlodipine) is a medication used to treat high blood pressure. Studies show that some of the common side effects are dizziness, headache, and rarely fainting as a result of low blood pressure. Some studies suggest that taking at bedtime can alleviate fainting