Your dietary protein can help heal a muscle tear. Whether you experience a sports injury involving a muscle tear or the microscopic muscle fiber damage that occurs as a normal part of resistance exercise, the protein in your diet can help rebuild the tissue. The types of protein you consume play a role in how well your body manages the process. In addition, very tiny muscle tears are associated with the normal breakdown of muscle fibers during and following a rigorous strength-training workout. This microscopic damage is a natural consequence of exercise and allows you to rebuild your muscle fibers to be stronger.
How to Develop Muscle. Muscle building results when the body repairs tears that occur during strenuous exercise. Photo Credit Minerva Studio/iStock/Getty Images. Muscle building cannot occur without first tearing down muscle fibers, the main component of muscle tissue. Hypertrophy is the term used to describe an increase in muscle bulk, which occurs when the body repairs torn muscle fibers. Weight lifting, resistance training and long-distance running are among the stressors that initiate the teardown and muscle-building cycle. Cosmetic bodybuilding involves developing muscle in specific areas of the body. Powerlifting requires well-developed muscular size and strength. If your goal is participation in sports, you need to develop varying levels of muscular endurance as well as strength, depending on the sport of your choice.
By lifting weights, you are actually causing tiny tears (known as “micro-tears”) in the muscle fibers, which the body then repairs and adapts the muscles to better handle the stimulus that caused the damage. This is the process by which muscles grow (scientifically termed hypertrophy). If a workout causes too many micro-tears, then the body will fail to fully repair the muscles, and muscle growth will be stunted. If a workout causes optimal micro-tearing but the body isn’t supplied with sufficient nutrition or rest, no appreciable amount of muscle growth will occur.
The muscle repairs these tears when you're resting, and this helps muscles grow in size and strength.”. So when you lift weights, you’re actually slightly damaging your muscles by allowing them to lift more weight than they would in normal daily life. And that damage is why you wake up sore the next day. 
Muscle Strain Overview. Muscle strain, muscle pull, or even a muscle tear refers to damage to a muscle or its attaching tendons. You can put undue pressure on muscles during the course of normal daily activities, with sudden heavy lifting, during sports, or while performing work tasks. Muscle damage can be in the form of tearing (part or all) of the muscle fibers and the tendons attached to the muscle. The tearing of the muscle can also damage small blood vessels, causing local bleeding, or bruising, and pain caused by irritation of the nerve endings in the area.
Torn muscles are serious workout injuries, and if you find yourself with torn muscles, you ought to do everything possible to treat them as soon as possible. Treatment during First 72 Hours. If you find yourself with a torn muscle, you will experience one of three types. The first type of torn muscle is the first-degree strain that only involves less than 5 percent of your muscle. This torn muscle will only result in mild pain and barely a loss of strength or range of motion in your muscle. 
The same goes for the confused crowd of “muscle confusion” advocates that say you need to change your routine every week or two. This is pure nonsense. You can make incredible muscle gains by doing the same proven, mass-building exercises every week, steadily increasing weight and reps (overload). If a workout causes too many micro-tears, then the body will fail to fully repair the muscles, and muscle growth will be stunted. If a workout causes optimal micro-tearing but the body isn’t supplied with sufficient nutrition or rest, no appreciable amount of muscle growth will occur.
When you get the proper nutrition, your body repairs this muscle tissue damage and makes it stronger, for the next time you have to handle this weight. That's why, in order to build muscle, you have to first cause slight muscle damage, so that new muscle mass is built. Okay, we all know that the quickest way to build muscle is to use progressive weight training. Progressive means that as soon as you get used to lifting a certain amount of weight, you add a little more.
A muscle strain, also known as a torn muscle or a pulled muscle, can occur in varying degrees. A first-degree strain involves only very minor tearing of the muscle, while a second-degree injury comprises a moderately torn muscle that causes pain and limits your ability to move. In addition, very tiny muscle tears are associated with the normal breakdown of muscle fibers during and following a rigorous strength-training workout. This microscopic damage is a natural consequence of exercise and allows you to rebuild your muscle fibers to be stronger.