Overview. Melatonin is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. It helps regulate other hormones and maintains the body's circadian rhythm. The circadian rhythm is an internal 24-hour clock that plays a critical role in when we fall asleep and when we wake up. When it is dark, your body produces more melatonin. 
Endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products, hormones, directly into the blood rather than through a duct. The major glands of the endocrine system include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus and adrenal glands. The hypothalamus and pituitary gland are neuroendocrine organs
1 Of the endocrine organs, the function of the pineal gland was the last discovered. 2  Located deep in the center of the brain, the pineal gland was once known as the “third eye.”. 3  The pineal gland produces melatonin, which helps maintain circadian rhythm and regulate reproductive hormones. 1 Located deep in the center of the brain, the pineal gland was once known as the “third eye.”. 2
Pineal Gland Essentials. 1  Of the endocrine organs, the function of the pineal gland was the last discovered. 2  Located deep in the center of the brain, the pineal gland was once known as the “third eye.”. 3  The pineal gland produces melatonin, which helps maintain circadian rhythm and regulate reproductive hormones. 1 Located deep in the center of the brain, the pineal gland was once known as the “third eye.”. 2
The pineal gland, also known as the pineal body, is an important endocrine gland that produces the hormone melatonin. Melatonin plays a key role in the sleep/wake cycle and the body’s response to sunlight. 
The pineal gland is situated in the middle of the human brain and is the major site of the body’s melatonin production. Alternative names for the pineal gland Pineal body; epiphysis cerebri; epiphysis. Where is the pineal gland? The pineal gland is located deep in the brain in an area called the epithalamus,where the two halves of the brain join. In humans, this is situated in the middle of the brain; it sits in a groove just above the thalamus which is an area that co-ordinates a variety of functions related to our senses. The pineal gland is best known for the secretion of the hormone melatonin, which is released into the blood and possibly also into the brain fluid, known as cerebrospinal fluid.
Melatonin secreted by the pineal gland is an important part of the body’s circadian timing system and can synchronise daily rhythms (see the articles on jet lag and circadian rhythm sleep disorders). The pineal gland is best known for the secretion of the hormone melatonin, which is released into the blood and possibly also into the brain fluid, known as cerebrospinal fluid.
The pineal gland is a pine cone shaped gland of the endocrine system. A structure of the diencephalon of the brain, the pineal gland produces several important hormones including melatonin. Melatonin influences sexual development and sleep-wake cycles. The pineal gland is composed of cells called pinealocytes and cells of the nervous system called glial cells. The pineal gland connects the endocrine system with the nervous system in that it converts nerve signals from the sympathetic system of the peripheral nervous system into hormone signals. Function:
It produces the serotonin derivative melatonin; a hormone that affects the modulation of the wake/sleep patterns and seasonal functions secretes the hormone melatonin, which is involved in the body's sleep wake cycle. Pineal activity lessons in the bright light, so melatonin levels are lower during the day. 
The Pineal Gland and Melatonin. The pineal gland or epiphysis synthesizes and secretes melatonin, a structurally simple hormone that communicates information about environmental lighting to various parts of the body. Ultimately, melatonin has the ability to entrain biological rhythms and has important effects on reproductive function of many animals. 