Your AncestryDNA test results will normally take about 6-8 weeks to process from the time that the lab receives your DNA sample. Please note that you must also activate your DNA kit online in order to begin processing. 
Share this Post. If you’re wondering how long it takes to get the results back from a DNA paternity test, the answer can vary, depending on which lab you choose. While some DNA labs can provide results in 1-2 days, others can take 3-12 weeks or longer! If you get the results fast but aren’t 100% confident in the results, you’ve wasted your money. Before buying, make sure to do your homework on the lab and make sure it is the right choice for such an important test.
How long does a DNA test take will depend on the DNA test that you desire for yourself, also the cost will differ accordingly. Some tests are easy to perform and don’t cost much, such as paternity tests. In the end how long does a DNA test take is a question that can never be answered correctly, you have to try your best to find the best DNA lab in your neighborhood where the blood samples are properly collected.
Throughout one’s lifespan, the DNA remains constant. Thus to find out the genes of a person and the relationship, a DNA test is significant. How long does DNA testing take depends on the place where the test takes place. Some may even give the results in 3 working days while others may take duration of 10 days. Before a DNA testing is done, there are many clauses put forth; the most important one being the agreement of all to get the test done. In the case of a couple and a child, the test needs to be conducted on the three but if in case the mother is not available; the test can still be conducted. However, it requires additional laboratory testing. How long does DNA testing take is usually in a week and a few days time.
As of September 16, 2015, the following tests have delays in normal turnaround times: Y-DNA – 9 to 10 weeks. Toggle. Most of our tests typically take 6 to 8 weeks to complete from the time we receive your sample in our lab, except Family Finder, which is usually 4 to 5 weeks and Big Y, which is usually 8 to 10 weeks. 
The modern day world has become quite complicated. Questions like how long does DNA testing take needs to be answered. Well, around 5 to 10 days is what it takes to know the results of a DNA test. In the case of a couple and a child, the test needs to be conducted on the three but if in case the mother is not available; the test can still be conducted. However, it requires additional laboratory testing. How long does DNA testing take is usually in a week and a few days time.
Your AncestryDNA test results will normally take about 6-8 weeks to process from the time that the lab receives your DNA sample. Please note that you must also activate your DNA kit online in order to begin processing. If you have taken one of the Y-chromosome and mitochondrial DNA tests, you will still have access to your results until September 30, 2014. You can access them here or on the AncestryDNA homepage. Please click here for more information.
The process does not take more than 7 days but depending on your DNA structure and lab quality it may take up to 10 or more days. For every DNA test you need a sample of your blood from which the DNA is extracted and analyzed. The DNA test mostly relies on the experience of the lab scientist that observes the structure closely to figure out the genes within the DNA. In the end how long does a DNA test take is a question that can never be answered correctly, you have to try your best to find the best DNA lab in your neighborhood where the blood samples are properly collected.
Paternity testing usually takes 2 business days from the time that all samples arrive at the laboratory, as long as no recollection is needed. Other tests, like grandparent, sibling, or aunt/uncle tests, may take up to 2 weeks. 