Is Africa a Country or a Continent. It is amazing that some people would get confused about the second largest continent in the World. Africa is not a country but a continent and one of the major ones in that regard. It is not like Australia that is a country as well as a continent. The misconception in thinking that Africa is a country rather than a continent is fueled by the media and those who more often than not project Africa as a country damaged by war, famine and corruption
Africa is a continent comprising 63 political territories, representing the largest of the great southward projections from the main mass of Earth 's surface. 
Africa is a continent with 54 different countries that it supports. The largest black continent in the world and home to more than 1 billion people in the world hence 1 in 7 of any human on earth is an African. It is amazing that some people would get confused about the second largest continent in the World. Africa is not a country but a continent and one of the major ones in that regard. It is not like Australia that is a country as well as a continent.
Many people think of Africa as the continent of Africa together with Madagascar but that is a total misconception. As a consequence of the forces of history and migration there is Africa in Europe, Africa in the Americas, and Africa in Asia. 
Africa's population is the youngest amongst all the continents; 50% of Africans were born in 1991 or later Algeria is Africa's largest country by area, and Nigeria by population. Afri was a Latin name used to refer to the inhabitants of Africa, which in its widest sense referred to all lands south of the Mediterranean (Ancient Libya). This name seems to have originally referred to a native Libyan tribe; see Terence#Biography for discussion.
African History. As for Africa, scientists have formerly concluded that it is the birthplace of mankind, as large numbers of human-like fossils (discovered no where else) were found on the continent, some dating back 3.5 million years. About 1.75 million years ago, early man spread throughout parts of Africa. Africa Map. Africa, the planet's 2nd largest continent and the second most-populous continent (after Asia) includes (54) individual countries, and Western Sahara, a member state of the African Union whose statehood is disputed by Morocco.
Africa is one of the 7 continents of the world and the most populous black continent. Africa is also known for being one of the hottest places on Earth, home to the ancient Egyptian Pyramids and the Nile river. Africa is known for its huge cultural heritage and the origin of civilization and written language dating back to more than 4000 years. In Africa, Egypt is the most attractive country for tourism and part of what drives this are the Egyptian pyramids. It is worthy of note however that Sudan has over 200 pyramids which is much more than the number found in Egypt.