A genetic disorder is a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities in the genome, especially a condition that is present from birth (congenital). Most genetic disorders are quite rare and affect one person in every several thousands or millions. A single-gene disorder is the result of a single mutated gene. Over 4000 human diseases are caused by single-gene defects. Single-gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. Genomic imprinting and uniparental disomy, however, may affect inheritance patterns.
Abnormal genes cause polycystic kidney disease, and the genetic defects mean the disease runs in families. Rarely, a genetic mutation can be the cause of polycystic kidney disease. There are two types of polycystic kidney disease, caused by different genetic flaws: Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Signs and symptoms of ADPKD often develop between the ages of 30 and 40. In the past, this type was called adult polycystic kidney disease, but children can develop the disorder.
See autosomal dominant diseases and autosomal dominant for a full list. Dominance: A genetic trait is often said to be dominant or recessive. A dominant trait is more likely to cause disease, because only one of the two copies of each gene needs to be damaged. Inheritance patterns for autosomal dominance: This refers to diseases where the error is in one of the autosome chromosomes, and the bad gene dominates. Some features of autosomal dominant genetic diseases are: 1  No carriers: Everyone who has the genetic error gets the disease, because the bad gene is dominant.
Autosomal dominance is a pattern of inheritance characteristic of some genetic diseases. Autosomal means that the gene in question is located on one of the numbered, or non-sex, chromosomes. Dominant means that a single copy of the disease-associated mutation is enough to cause the disease. This is in contrast to a recessive disorder, where two copies of the mutation are needed to cause the disease. Huntington's disease is a common example of an autosomal dominant genetic disorder
Inheritance of a specific disease, condition, or trait depends on the type of chromosome affected (autosomal or sex chromosome) whether the trait is is dominant or recessive. A single, abnormal gene on one of the first 22 non-sex chromosomes from either parent can cause autosomal disorder. Dominant inheritance means an abnormal gene from one parent is capable of causing disease even though the matching gene from the other parent is normal. The abnormal gene dominates the pair of genes.
Autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) causes a lot of fluid-filled sacs, called cysts, to grow in your kidneys. The cysts keep your kidneys from working like they should. That can cause health problems like high blood pressure, infections, and kidney stones. 
Autosomal dominant inheritance pattern. Huntington's disease is caused by an inherited defect in a single gene. Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant disorder, which means that a person needs only one copy of the defective gene to develop the disorder.
Inheritance of Autosomoal Dominant Genetic Diseases. These genetic diseases are diseases caused by an error in a single DNA gene. Autosomal means the errors occurs on chromosome 1..22 rather than on the 23rd sex-linked X chromosome. There are also X-linked dominant genetic diseases affecting the 23rd X chromosome. Inheritance patterns for autosomal dominance: This refers to diseases where the error is in one of the autosome chromosomes, and the bad gene dominates. Some features of autosomal dominant genetic diseases are: 1  No carriers: Everyone who has the genetic error gets the disease, because the bad gene is dominant.
Dominant Genetic Diseases: Introduction. Dominant diseases are genetic diseases that only require a single copy of the gene to be damaged. This error need only be inherited from one parent in order to get the disease. The bad gene from one parent dominates the other parent's good gene. Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Dominant Genetic Diseases: 1  Marfan's syndrome. 2  Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. 3  Multiple exostoses. 4  Huntington's disease. 5  Neurofibromatosis. 6  more related diseases...».
The most common type of dominant disease affects the autosomes and is called autosomal dominant. A rarer type of dominant disease affected the X chromosome and is called x-linked dominant disease. See also articles Introduction to Genetics and Introduction to Genetic Diseases. ... Research the causes of these diseases that are similar to, or related to, Dominant Genetic Diseases: 1  Marfan's syndrome. 2  Hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer. 3  Multiple exostoses. 4  Huntington's disease. 5  Neurofibromatosis. 6  more related diseases...».