Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disorder that causes abnormally thick, sticky mucus. Chronic cough is a characteristic symptom of cystic fibrosis as the lungs work to clear the abnormally thick mucus from the airways. The sputum coughed up is typically gel-like in consistency and usually green or yellow in coloration.
Coughing Up Phlegm. When the body suffers from an infection or disorder, it causes an accumulation of phlegm in the throat. The mucus irritates the air passage and creates discomfort in the sufferer. It triggers cough which expels the mucus.
Coughing up green mucus or green phlegm is an indication that there is pus accumulation inside the respiratory passage. Phlegm, mucus, sputum or post-nasal drip are terms for slim secretions that is produced due to coughing from throat. The consistency of phlegm can vary from being watery to thick and jelly-like.
You may not notice that you produce much phlegm unless you cough due to a respiratory infection, such as pneumonia, or if you have certain other diseases or conditions in which the body produces abnormal amounts or types of phlegm, such as cystic fibrosis and asthma.
Coughing mucus and phlegm commonly occurs in the morning. If you are coughing up mucus and phlegm and it persists, consult your doctor. Constantly coughing mucus and phlegm can lead to nausea. Based on your cough symptoms, your doctor will perform a physical examination as well as certain diagnostic tests.
Coughing up phlegm or mucus can be caused by various things and include the common cold, allergies, irritants (smoking, dust, pet dander, chemical fumes), gastro-esophageal reflux or bacterial or viral infections in the lungs such as acute bronchitis, pneumonia, whooping cough, croup in children.
Coughing Up Phlegm. A cough accompanied by green, or yellow phlegm, in the actual, is a sign of lung infection. The infection may lead to coughing up phlegm every morning, or after eating, which may continue for months. The following article throws light on various causes and treatment for the same.
Coughing up blood is the spitting up of blood or bloody mucus from the lungs and throat (respiratory tract). Hemoptysis is the medical term for coughing up blood from the respiratory tract.
Phlegm is a thick, slippery and sticky substance produced by the throat, bronchial passages, and lungs. Phlegm, also called sputum, contains mucus and sometimes other substances, such as dead cells, pus, or foreign particles, including dust.