Because Applied Degree programs are generally created in response to industry demand for graduates, curriculum is often developed in consultation with employers, ensuring that it is current and relevant. Programs may include a semester of work experience as part of the program.
The Bachelor of Applied Studies (BAS) degree is designed for students with an applied associate degree from any Wisconsin Technical College System campus or other regionally accredited institution.
CSU-Global's accredited online bachelor's degree in applied social sciences is designed to provide you with a practical knowledge in a wide range of interconnected fields. The program consists of 10 three-credit core courses as part of a full 120-credit bachelor's degree.
Equipping students with critical thinking skills and hands-on technical skills, Applied Degree programs are designed with a clear career-focus in mind. If you’re interested in a practical but demanding program which will lead to a challenging and rewarding career, consider earning an Applied Degree in Canada.
An applied science (BAS) bachelor's degree is a 4-year degree program for those seeking entry or advancement into more technical careers. Keep reading to see characteristics of BAS programs, including common admission requirements, areas of study and distance learning options.
If you’re deciding between pursuing a Bachelor’s degree and a diploma or certificate, you might consider an Applied Degree. Applied Degree programs in Canada combine the academic focus of a university degree with the practical, job-ready skills students learn in college.
The applied science (BAS) bachelor's degree is a degree meant for someone who has already completed an associate's degree program in applied science and is looking to move into management or advance his or her career.
Similar to a Bachelor's degree, Applied Degree programs are usually four years in length and focus on a solid grounding in theory and analytical skills. What makes them different from a traditional degree is a stronger emphasis on practical applications of the concepts learned in the classroom.
The Bachelor of Science in Applied Social Sciences program is a degree completion program that investigates the human experience and examines how structures, relationships, and ideas of the social world relate to human behavior.
CalSouthern’s Bachelor of Science in Applied Technology (BSAT) degree is perfectly suited for students with an interest in business technology as well as those who have received college credit in a technical field from a community college or vocational school.