Caroline Chisholm (1808-1877), philanthropist, was born near Northampton, England, daughter of William Jones, a well-to-do farmer. Reared in the tradition of Evangelical philanthropy, at 22 she agreed to marry Captain Archibald Chisholm of the East India Co., but on condition that her philanthropic work should continue. The Chisholms decided to spend leave in Australia and arrived in Sydney in the Emerald Isle in September 1838; they settled at Windsor, where Caroline remained with her three sons when Chisholm was recalled to active service in 1840.
Caroline Chisholm (30 May 1808 – 25 March 1877) was a progressive 19th-century English humanitarian known mostly for her involvement with female immigrant welfare in Australia. Caroline Jones (Chisholm) came from a very large family. Her father, William Jones, had been married four times. She came from a 16 people family and he was the last and 16th child.
From a young age Caroline Chisholm was aware of a call to serve others. When Archibald Chisholm proposed marriage she initially refused him for fear that her call would make her an unsuitable wife for an officer and an inadequate mother. Caroline Chisholm’s work stemmed from her own perceptions of a vocational call and the manner in which she responded to it are reflected in the teachings of the Second Vatican Council and clearly articulated in the apostolic exhortation of John Paul II, Christifidelis Laici.
Caroline Chisholm helped young single immigrant women on arrival in Sydney during the mid to late 19th century. When her work was officially recognised through the Sydney press, she was given the use of a government building to establish The Female Emigrants Home. 
Caroline Chisholm was known as 'the emigrant's friend'. She earned this title for her work with poor migrants to Australia last century. Caroline was one of this country's most outstanding women. Her portrait was on the five dollar note for more than twenty years. Caroline Chisholm was born in England in 1808. Even as a young girl she was interested in helping people. Her parents' home was always open to everyone, no matter how rich or poor. When she was twenty-two years old she married Archibald Chisholm, an officer in the British Army.
Caroline was 22 in 1830 when she married Archibald Chisholm, a Roman Catholic ten years her senior, serving with East India Company Army. It is believed that Caroline converted to her husband’s faith at this time. They were married at the Anglican Church of the Holy Sepulchre in Northampton. Caroline Jones (Chisholm) came from a very large family. Her father, William Jones, had been married four times. She came from a 16 people family and he was the last and 16th child.
Caroline Chisholm helped young single immigrant women on arrival in Sydney during the mid to late 19th century. When her work was officially recognised through the Sydney pres … s, she was given the use of a government building to establish The Female Emigrants Home. Caroline Chisholm moved to Australia as a young married woman, around 1830. She was shocked by the conditions experienced by women and new immigrants to Sydney who had supposedly come to Australia for a better life. Many of them had nowhere to live, so lived on the streets of the town.
In considering the contribution of women to Australian society, Caroline Chisholm must figure prominently. Her work as a social reformer is widely acknowledged. What is less well known is that her work was motivated by a strong sense of vocation born out of a desire to do God’s will. Caroline Chisholm’s work stemmed from her own perceptions of a vocational call and the manner in which she responded to it are reflected in the teachings of the Second Vatican Council and clearly articulated in the apostolic exhortation of John Paul II, Christifidelis Laici.
Caroline Chisholm (1808-1877) was a British-born author and philanthropist, whose work with immigrant families, women and children ensured the successful colonization of Australia. The foremost concern of Caroline Chisholm was the plight of the young immigrant girls. When Captain Chisholm sailed for China in 1841, his wife decided to come to the aide of the abandoned and penniless women of Sydney.
Caroline Chisholm moved to Australia as a young married woman, in the 1830s. She was shocked by the conditions experienced by women and new immigrants to Sydney who had suppos … edly come to Australia for a better life. Caroline Chisholm moved to Australia as a young married woman, around 1830. She was shocked by the conditions experienced by women and new immigrants to Sydney who had supposedly come to Australia for a better life. Many of them had nowhere to live, so lived on the streets of the town.