Full: Full mattress thickness can vary between 5 inches to over 20 inches in thickness. Queen: Mattress thickness can go anywhere from 5 inches to over 20 inches thick. King: Mattress thickness is often between 5 inches to over 20 inches thick. As you can see, there is a wide variety of mattress heights. The reason that mattress thickness varies from brand to brand and mattress model to mattress model is primarily do to support levels, quality, and comfort. If you wanted to know exactly what the thickness is for a coil spring mattress, I am afraid your are going to get a unclear answer. We are going to give you some idea of thickness you can anticipate when buying a new mattress.
Mattress models ranging in thickness from 10 to 14 inches thick are the most acceptable to mattress buyers. As shown above traditional coil spring mattresses can range from about 5 inches to well over 20 inches in thickness. Yes, I said 20 inches. However do not fear, bedding manufacturers looking to make a buck are on the ball and are making special sheets, mattress pads, and bed spreads to fit these new thick mattresses. If you wanted to know exactly what the thickness is for a coil spring mattress, I am afraid your are going to get a unclear answer. We are going to give you some idea of thickness you can anticipate when buying a new mattress.
Of course, the more support you need can determine how thick a mattress you sleep on should be. Basically, as with weight the thicker the mattress, the softer it will be. I would like to clear up one little “niggle” here. Some memory foam mattresses can be as thin as 6 inches or as thick as 13 to 14 inches. However don’t think that just because you buy say, a 12 inch foam mattress, this is the amount of memory foam you have. Whilst some manufacturers are very good at outlining the actual amount of memory foam you have, others are not
Depending on the brand selected, the different layers include memory foam, gel, latex foam layers, quilting and covers. The optimum choice for the thickness of the memory foam layer ranges from 4 to 5 inches thick with a density of at least 5 pounds per cubic foot. The denser and thicker the mattress, the higher the price goes. 
Memory foam mattresses generally vary in thickness from less than 8 inches to more than 13 inches. Very few are completely made of memory foam; most have memory foam on the top and a base that is made of something different. If you enjoy sleeping on a plush surface or if you are a side sleeper, look for a memory foam mattress that is about 3 or 4 pounds. If a firm foundation is what you need for a good night's sleep or if you sleep on your back or stomach, look for one that is at least 5 pounds.
Queen mattresses sit between full and king on the mattress size chart. Manufacturers and vendors use a set of standard measurements to give the dimensions, and thereby size, of a queen mattress. Thickness is not one of these measurements, meaning that no standard queen mattress thickness exists. The thickness of a queen mattress, therefore, hinges on the manufacturer and the type. Some mattress manufacturers place so little emphasis on thickness as to not list it in product dimensions.
Food for Thought on Memory Foam Mattresses. I would like to clear up one little “niggle” here. Some memory foam mattresses can be as thin as 6 inches or as thick as 13 to 14 inches. However don’t think that just because you buy say, a 12 inch foam mattress, this is the amount of memory foam you have. Whilst some manufacturers are very good at outlining the actual amount of memory foam you have, others are not
Even more than thickness, the density of the mattress will determine how firm the surface will be. The density is measured in pounds, and the higher the number, the denser it is. If you enjoy sleeping on a plush surface or if you are a side sleeper, look for a memory foam mattress that is about 3 or 4 pounds. If a firm foundation is what you need for a good night's sleep or if you sleep on your back or stomach, look for one that is at least 5 pounds.
Best Answer: Having sold mattresses for several years, I can tell you that there really is no such thing as a standard queen mattress thickness. Even the perimeter dimensions vary slightly, depending on the amount of padding and upholstery. Typically, a queen mattress is 60 inches wide and 80 inches long. The depth or thickness can vary from a few inches to more than 15, common on today's popular pillow top styles. I suggest that you either ask the Murphy Bed dealer for their recommended dimensions. If that's not an option, ask a local bedding retailer. I need to buy a standard queen size mattress to fit a Murphy bed. I've been told that the extra-thick mattresses will not fit, but have no idea how thick a standard queen mattress is! I've seen just over 7 inches and up to 10 inches thick.