1 Blood in the urine, also known as Haematuria, can cause darker urine. 2  Haemolytic Anemia can cause dark yellow urine color. 3  Hepatitis can cause a darker urine color. 4  Hepatitis is an inflammation of your liver, and it’s usually caused by a viral infection or some medications or even alcohol consumption. If you haven’t had any foods that may cause the dark yellow urine color, then there are some illnesses that can show symptoms such as dark yellow urine color. 1  Blood in the urine, also known as Haematuria, can cause darker urine. 2  Haemolytic Anemia can cause dark yellow urine color.
Some foods may cause a dark urine color: 1  Asparagus makes dark yellow or even green urine. 2  Beets can give you red urine. 3  Blackberries can make red urine or smokey brown urine as well. 4  Food coloring in candy and other foods can also cause dark urine. Some foods may cause a dark urine color: 1  Asparagus makes dark yellow or even green urine. 2  It is usually accompanied by a stronger urine odor. 3  Beets can give you red urine. 4  The urine will be a reddish tint. 5  If your urine has more than a reddish tint, see a doctor immediately
Dark urine is most commonly due to dehydration and concentrated urine. However, it may be an indicator that excess, unusual, or potentially dangerous waste products are circulating in the body. For example, dark brown urine may indicate liver disease due to the presence of bile products. Overview. Urine is produced in the kidneys, which are important organs for the health of our body. When we take fluid in, it passes from our digestive system into our circulatory system, where it is filtered through the kidneys. The kidneys get rid of waste products through the urine.
Changes in urine colour. A change in your urine colour is normally due to something completely normal, but just occasionally it may be a sign that you should seek medical advice. Urine gets it colour from the pigment urochrome and the colour normally ranges between light yellow and dark amber. Taking certain medications can also make the colour of urine change. Vitamin supplements may change the urine to a particularly bright colour. These changes, which are harmless, are due to the pigments and compounds in the food, supplements or medication.
A. If you eat quite a view beets, your urine it will have a red, dark orange color, especially if you are drinking beet juice, your urine will get very red/dark orange, in some cases brownish in color. The intensity of color, of course, is due to your water intact, other foods/liquids like coffee, carrots etc.. 
Now, some foods may also cause your urine to have a dark yellow urine color. Asparagus makes your urine darker yellow and it creates a strong odor. The important thing is to think about your diet. If you haven’t had any foods that may cause the dark yellow urine color, then there are some illnesses that can show symptoms such as dark yellow urine color. 1  Blood in the urine, also known as Haematuria, can cause darker urine. 2  Haemolytic Anemia can cause dark yellow urine color.
Sometimes your urine can be a few shades darker than the usual light yellow urine. In fact, your urine can be very dark and even a different dark urine color such as red urine, brown urine, orange urine or rust urine color. The appearance of dark urine may be unsettling and cause you to question your health. Some foods may cause a dark urine color: 1  Asparagus makes dark yellow or even green urine. 2  It is usually accompanied by a stronger urine odor. 3  Beets can give you red urine. 4  The urine will be a reddish tint. 5  If your urine has more than a reddish tint, see a doctor immediately
Darkened urine is urine that is dark yellow, brown, dark red, or red, and it may range from slightly dark to considerably dark. A change in urine color may be temporary, or it may be persistent. The duration and course of darkened urine can vary widely, depending on the cause. 