Biotin deficiency is a rare nutritional disorder which can become serious, even fatal, if allowed to progress untreated. It can occur in people of any age, ancestry, or gender. Biotin is part of the B vitamin family. 
Biotin is used for preventing and treating biotin deficiency associated with pregnancy, long-term tube feeding, malnutrition, and rapid weight loss. It is also used orally for hair loss, brittle nails, skin rash in infants (seborrheic dermatitis), diabetes, and mild depression. Likely Effective for: 1  Treating and preventing biotin deficiency. 2  Symptoms of deficiency include thinning of the hair (often with loss of hair color), and red scaly rash around the eyes, nose, and mouth. 3  Other symptoms include depression, listlessness, hallucinations, and tingling in the arms and legs.
A: Biotin is a water-soluble B-complex vitamin (also called vitamin B7 or vitamin H). The primary role of biotin is in the metabolism of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates. Biotin is found naturally in food, such as yeast, cauliflower, salmon, bananas, carrots, egg yolks, sardines, legumes, and mushrooms. Biotin as a supplement has been reported to strengthen hair and improve thin, splitting, or brittle toenails and fingernails. Biotin is a popular supplement for hair, skin, and fingernails, though there is little evidence to suggest that taking biotin supplements can stop hair loss or stimulate hair or nail growth. Similarly, using biotin shampoo or other hair products is unlikely to produce any benefit.
Biotin is found in various foods, including liver, cauliflower, salmon, carrots, bananas, soy flour, cereals, and yeast. Biotin content of food is reduced by cooking and preserving. 
Although biotin deficiency is rare, it can develop during pregnancy or in people who have poor nutrition or experience rapid weight loss. Symptoms of biotin deficiency include hair loss, dry skin, a scaly rash around the eyes or mouth, dry eyes, fatigue, and depression. Biotin is a popular supplement for hair, skin, and fingernails, though there is little evidence to suggest that taking biotin supplements can stop hair loss or stimulate hair or nail growth. Similarly, using biotin shampoo or other hair products is unlikely to produce any benefit.
8 Foods Rich in Biotin. Biotin is a water soluble B vitamin that is essential for bodily health. It helps the body to process fat and sugars, and it helps form a critical process in fat production in the body. Biotin is particularly necessary for pregnant women. When an expecting mother has an inadequate supply of biotin in her diet, certain conditions might be manifested in both the adult and the infant, where skin discolorations can indicate a biotin deficiency, which can have some negative effects.
Food sources. Biotin is found in many foods, either as the free form that is directly taken up by enterocytes or as biotin bound to dietary proteins. Egg yolk, liver, and yeast are rich sources of biotin. 
Biotin, also known as vitamin H or coenzyme R, is a water-soluble B-vitamin (vitamin B7). It is composed of a ureido (tetrahydroimidizalone) ring fused with a tetrahydrothiophene ring. A valeric acid substituent is attached to one of the carbon atoms of the tetrahydrothiophene ring. Biotin is a coenzyme for carboxylase enzymes, involved in the synthesis of fatty acids, isoleucine, and valine, and in gluconeogenesis. The only human health condition for which there is strong evidence of biotin's potential benefit as a treatment is biotin deficiency. Biotin is necessary for cell growth, the production of fatty acids, and the metabolism of fats and amino acids. Biotin assists in various metabolic reactions involving the transfer of carbon dioxide. It may also be helpful in maintaining a steady blood sugar level
Sources of B7. Biotin is found in small amounts in food. Foods that contain biotin are liver, cauliflower, salmon, carrots, bananas, soy flour, yeast, wheat germ, whole-grain cereals, whole wheat bread, eggs, dairy products, nuts, Swiss chard and chicken, said Ross. 