Gender Influences Health. In almost all cultures and settings around the world and across social groups, women have less access to and control over resources than most men, and are denied equal access to facilities like education and training. However, what it means to be a man or a woman varies across cultures, races and classes.
Examples of SEX and GENDER influences Mental health Women are twice as likely as men to experience depression, with some women experiencing mood symptoms related to hormone changes during puberty, pregnancy, and perimenopause. The scientific studies that generate the most complete data consider sex and/or gender influences in study design, data collection and analysis, and reporting of findings. Sex is a biological classification, encoded in our DNA.
Dr. Joy Johnson, scientific director of Vancouver’s Institute of Gender and Health and a University of British Columbia nursing professor, spoke at the University of New Brunswick Fredericton campus last week on the implications of sex and gender for medical treatment. 
Research on sex and gender differences — research that spans basic studies on cells to large, clinical trials involving thousands of patients — aims to understand health differences between males and females at all levels. Women and men have different health care habit and needs, both of which affect health in significant ways. Women are more likely to be the primary family caregiver, meaning their decisions affect the health of children and men in the household as well.
Men and women have different nutrition needs. Men and women both require a nutritious diet for long-term health, but your gender plays a role in the amount of nutrients you need. Consuming the right proportions of nutrients helps you to manage your weight and supports your body’s functions. 
They also affect the responses of the health care sector and society as a whole, to mental health. It is important to recognize how culturally imposed gender roles affect the control that some men and women have over the socio-economic determinants of their mental health. Stress is considered a major risk factor for depression, and socially constructed gender roles may influence the different sources of stress experienced by men and women. The 2002 Mental Health and Well-being Survey asked respondents to identify the most important source of feelings of stress in their lives.
However, just as in women’s health, men’s health is much broader. While many sex-based influences affect diseases/organs related to reproduction, such as prostate and testicular cancer, many sex-based factors influence diseases and organs unrelated to reproduction. Here are a few examples. Women and men have different health care habit and needs, both of which affect health in significant ways. Women are more likely to be the primary family caregiver, meaning their decisions affect the health of children and men in the household as well.
Gender based differences in access to or control over resources, in power or decision making, and in roles and responsibilities, have implications for women’s and men’s health status. In almost all cultures and settings around the world and across social groups, women have less access to and control over resources than most men, and are denied equal access to facilities like education and training. However, what it means to be a man or a woman varies across cultures, races and classes.
Celebrating everyday humanitarians: #ThanksHealthHero. A humanitarian is someone who seeks to promote the welfare of others-and that's exactly what health workers do every day. Jim Campbell, Director, Health Workforce Department. We appreciate your visit to the Gender, Equity and Human Rights website. The WHO World Report on Ageing and Health, which highlights evidence on what health and social care systems can do to support healthy ageing, will be launched globally on September 30 in Washington, D.C. by the WHO Director-General and the Regional Director for the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO).