Introduction. The Second Battle of Bull Run (Manassas) proved to be the deciding battle in the Civil War campaign waged between Union and Confederate armies in northern Virginia in 1862. Union Major General John Pope lost about 15,000 men in the Second Battle of Bull Run (Manassas), along with his reputation. Relieved of command, he was sent to the Army's Department of the Northwest for the remainder of the Civil War
A+E Networks. The Second Battle of Bull Run (Manassas) proved to be the deciding battle in the Civil War campaign waged between Union and Confederate armies in northern Virginia in 1862. Union Major General John Pope lost about 15,000 men in the Second Battle of Bull Run (Manassas), along with his reputation. Relieved of command, he was sent to the Army's Department of the Northwest for the remainder of the Civil War
Aftermath of The Battle of Bull Run. The ferocity of the fighting and the number of casualties at First Bull Run were a wake-up call to both sides. Five days after the battle, McDowell, blamed for the defeat, was replaced by Major General George B. McClellan as Union army leader. Donnybrook: The Battle of Bull Run, 1861 (Book Review) Reviewed by John HennessyBy David Detzer New York: Harcourt, Inc., 2004 Whether you refer to it as Manassas or Bull Run, you’ll want this book on the war’s first major battle.
The Union general at the first battle of Bull Run, occurring in 1861, was Irvin Mcdowell. The Union general at the second battle of Bull Run, taking place in 1862, was John Po … pe. The Union army lost both the first and second battles of Bull Run. The South won the First Battle of Bull Run also called The First Battle of Manassas. It was a surprising victory as the Northern public expected to win this as an easy victory … and the Southerners realized they were in for a long fight that would entail many losses on their side as well.
Lincoln's hopes had been high the previous summer, but then a 35,000-man Union army under Gen. Irvin McDowell was routed at the Civil War's first major engagement, the First B … attle of Bull Run (Manassas), on July 21, 1861. A Union victory was expected at the first Battle of Bull Run. It was indeed a shock to have suffered a defeat.
The First Battle of Bull Run, also known as First Manassas (the name used by Confederate forces), was fought on July 21, 1861, in Prince William County, Virginia, near the city of Manassas, not far from the city of Washington, D.C. McDowell was also present to bear significant blame for the defeat of Maj. Gen. John Pope's Army of Virginia by Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia thirteen months later, at the Second Battle of Bull Run. Patterson was also removed from command.
It was the culmination of an offensive campaign waged by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee 's Army of Northern Virginia against Union Maj. Gen. John Pope 's Army of Virginia, and a battle of much larger scale and numbers than the First Battle of Bull Run (or First Manassas) fought on July 21, 1861 on the same ground. The Second Battle of Bull Run, like the First (July 21, 1861), was a significant tactical victory for the Confederates and was another blow to Union morale, despite proportional losses (16-17%).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Battle of Bull Run was part of the America Civil War and was fought on July 21, 1861 in William County, Virginia. The South won the First Battle of Bull Run also called The First Battle of Manassas. It was a surprising victory as the Northern public expected to win this as an easy victory … and the Southerners realized they were in for a long fight that would entail many losses on their side as well.
At the very least, the First Battle of Bull Run proved the war would be long and violent. President Lincoln was forced to sign a bill that allowed for the enlistment of up to 500,000 additional soldiers. The first major battle of the American Civil War occurred on July 21, 1861, in Manassas, Virginia. The Battle is known both as the First Battle of Bull Run, after the creek that ran through the battlefield, or, the First Battle of Manassas. 