Common law (also known as case law or precedent) is law developed by judges, courts, and similar tribunals, stated in decisions that nominally decide individual cases but that in addition have precedential effect on future cases. A common law system is a legal system that gives great precedential weight to common law, so that consistent principles applied to similar facts yield similar outcomes.
There are two sources of contract law: common law, which is based on case rulings, and statutory law, which is based on federal and state statutes. Contract law uses both common law and a set of statutory rules known as the Uniform Commercial Code. In common law, for a contract to be binding, one party offers, the other party accepts and something of value is exchanged. The terms of offer, acceptance and consideration-amongst other elements-are written or expressed orally in a very specific way.
DEFINITION of 'Common Law'. In the United States, a body of unwritten laws based on precedents established by the courts. Common law is used in deciding novel cases where the outcome cannot be determined based on existing statutes. The U.S. common-law system evolved from the precolonial system of English common law
All employers should prepare a written common law employment contract for all employees so that everyone is clear about the various entitlements and conditions of work. Find an employment contract for your state that you can use to draft a contract to take to your legal adviser. 
Definition. An agreement creating obligations enforceable by law. The basic elements of a contract are mutual assent, consideration, capacity, and legality. In some states, the element of consideration can be satisfied by a valid substitute
Contract law varies greatly from one jurisdiction to another, including differences in common law compared to civil law, the impact of received law, particularly from England in common law countries, and of law codified in regional legislation. A mistake is an incorrect understanding by one or more parties to a contract and may be used as grounds to invalidate the agreement. Common law has identified three different types of mistake in contract: common mistake, mutual mistake, and unilateral mistake.
Contract Law in Common Law: Within common law, the elements of a contract are consideration and mutual assent. In a common law jurisdiction, mutual assent is reached through the initial offer and acceptance of the contract, meaning the offer is met with an acceptance that does not vary in terms or stipulations. As is common with many legal principles, the basic characteristics of contract law will vary between jurisdictions. In the United States, contract law requires three foundational elements: a contract will require an offer, an acceptance and consideration in order to manifest itself into a legally valid contract.
Common Law Law & Legal Definition. Common law is the system of deciding cases that originated in England and which was latter adopted in the U.S.. Common law is based on precedent (legal principles developed in earlier case law) instead of statutory laws. It is the traditional law of an area or region created by judges when deciding individual disputes or cases. Common law changes over time. The U.S. is a common law country. In all states except Louisiana, which is based on Napoleonic code, the common law of England was adopted as the general law of the state, or varied by statute. Today almost all common law has been enacted into statutes with modern variations by all the states
Contracts law principles in general are uniformly understood and applied across the United States. Contract law is governed by the common law and the Uniform Commercial Code UCC.. Common law governs contractual transactions with real estate, services, insurance, intangible assets and employment. Modification of contracts with the common law requires consideration, unlike the UCC, where consideration is not a prerequisite. Promise to keep an offer open. A promise to keep a deal open is an option contract with the common law and requires consideration.