© QA International, 2010. All rights reserved. www.qa-international.com. Inside the cells of every living thing are microscopic, threadlike parts called chromosomes. They carry hereditary information from one generation to the next in the form of genes. A chromosome is made up of protein and deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA, which is the substance that determines an organism's inherited traitsfor example, eye color in animals and flower. chromosome... (75 of 440 words).
Definition of GENE for Kids. : a unit of DNA that is usually located on a chromosome and that controls the development of one or more traits and is the basic unit by which genetic information is passed from parent to offspring. 
cell division: meiosis. A homologous pair of chromosomes consists of one chromosome from each parent. During most of the cell cycle, homologous chromosome pairs are unreplicated. When the chromosomes replicate, each chromosome of the pair becomes doubled; each half of the doubled chromosomes is called a chromatid. 
chromosome-a threadlike strand of DNA in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order; humans have 22 chromosome pairs plus two sex chromosomes. chromosome. 1. A coiled thread of DNA found in the nucleus of a cell. 2. A rodlike body containing genes, and appearing in a cell nucleus as the cell divides.
Within each chromosome are specific sections of DNA called genes. Each gene contains the code or recipe to make a specific protein. These proteins determine how we grow and what traits we inherit from our parents. The gene is sometimes called a unit of heredity. 
Definition of CHROMOSOME for Kids. : one of the rod-shaped or threadlike structures of a cell nucleus that contain genes and divide when the cell divides. chromosome. noun chro·mo·some \ˈkrō-mə-ˌsōm, -ˌzōm\. Tweet. : the part of a cell that contains the genes which control how an animal or plant grows and what it becomes.
Noun. 1. chromatid-one of two identical strands into which a chromosome splits during mitosis. chromosome-a threadlike strand of DNA in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order; humans have 22 chromosome pairs plus two sex chromosomes. fibril, filament, strand-a very slender natural or synthetic fiber.
Noun. 1. chromosome-a threadlike strand of DNA in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order; humans have 22 chromosome pairs plus two sex chromosomes. cell nucleus, karyon, nucleus-a part of the cell containing DNA and RNA and responsible for growth and reproduction. chromosome. 1. A coiled thread of DNA found in the nucleus of a cell. 2. A rodlike body containing genes, and appearing in a cell nucleus as the cell divides.