A tempering valve is a device used with water heaters to cool hot water by mixing in some cold water, according to Inspectapedia. This lowers the temperature enough to make the water safe to use. A tempering valve is also called a mixing or anti-scald valve. Some of these valves are built into tub or sink fixtures, instead of being located outside the water heater.
(January 2009). A thermostatic mixing valve (TMV) is a valve that blends hot water with cold water to ensure constant, safe shower and bath outlet temperatures, preventing scalding. They also shut off rapidly in the event of a hot or cold supply failure to prevent scalding or thermal shock. It is increasingly common practice around the world to regulate the storage water temperature to above 60 °C (140 °F), and to circulate or distribute water at a temperature less than 50 °C (122 °F).
Kitchen and laundry applications are still permitted to bypass the tempering valve and use the hot water directly from a standard electric or gas hot water tank. Please see the tempering valve flow chart below. Thermostatic mixing valves are required for the previously mentioned facilities that require 45°C. The mechanism is a sliding valve that varies the ratio of hot and cold water that is allowed to pass. The valve is designed to maintain a constant outlet temperature, reducing the risk of accidental scalding. Your plumber adjusts the valve to the required temperature.
Additional Facts. A tempering valve is also called a mixing or anti-scald valve. Some of these valves are built into tub or sink fixtures, instead of being located outside the water heater. These allow the user to increase the temperature of the water up to a certain point
Taco Mixing Valves. Taco Mixing Valves are among the most popular mixing valves in the plumbing and heati ng industry. The 5000 Series Taco Mixing Valve is a dual-purpose mixing or diverting valve that delivers fail-safe security and superior performance. Mixing Valves are a key component to hydronic heating systems. The Taco Mixing Valves work well in standar d heating systems or Radiant Heat Systems. 
Using an anti-scald valve or mixing valve or tempering valve on a hot water supply system can increase both the actual and the apparent total quantity of hot water available. That is, building occupants get a longer time in the shower, provided the hot water is used with some sense, as we explain here. By manual hot water tempering valve we mean that the plumber has installed an ordinary plumbing valve and a cold water bypass pipe to mix some cold water into the water heater's outgoing hot water supply.
Tempering Valves Explained. A tempering valve mixes your hot and cold water to deliver hot tap water at a constant temperature. Tempering valves have a temperature sensitive element which adjusts the mix depending on the temperature of the incoming water flowing through the valve. The mechanism is a sliding valve that varies the ratio of hot and cold water that is allowed to pass. The valve is designed to maintain a constant outlet temperature, reducing the risk of accidental scalding. Your plumber adjusts the valve to the required temperature.
Anti-scald valves used with water heaters are also called tempering valves or mixing valves. An anti-scald valve mixes cold water in with the outgoing hot water to assure that hot water reaching a building fixture is at a temperature low enough to be safe. By manual hot water tempering valve we mean that the plumber has installed an ordinary plumbing valve and a cold water bypass pipe to mix some cold water into the water heater's outgoing hot water supply.
On a manual mixing valve or tempering valve if we  close  the manual valve by turning it clockwise we are are admitting less cold water into the mixing process, thus making the output water temperature hotter at plumbing fixtures in the building. Here is a manual mixing valve on a hydronic heating system. By manual hot water tempering valve we mean that the plumber has installed an ordinary plumbing valve and a cold water bypass pipe to mix some cold water into the water heater's outgoing hot water supply.
Most mixing valves can be categorized into those used for whole-house applications, where mixing valve is installed in proximity to the hot water heater and those used directly at the plumbing fixture (point-of-use applications). Thermostatic mixing valve is a general term used to describe a 3-way valve which mixes the hot and cold water and provides constant temperature water at the outlet. The valve normally has a lockable dial knob which allows user to select and “lock-in” the desired output temperature.