Since it is similar in shape to a huarache (but smaller), and is made of the same corn as the sope and is even thicker (so it has more resistance to humid foods), Mexican street vendors decided to sell it adding toppings on it, as an alternative to the sope. The sope's thickness is meant to support its toppings, and the frying of its exterior surface adds resistance to the moisture of the ingredients. The most common variation of the sope involves simply adding chicken and is widely known as a sope de pollo.
Sopes are very traditional in mexican households. The toppings range from just beans and cheese, to eggs, shredded chicken or beef, picadillo, or even just guacamole. To form the sopes you will need either a tortilla press orflat plate or the bottom of a skillet. 1 Fry each sope on both sides for 3 minutes. 2  Place them on paper towels to blot off some of the extra oil. 3  Serve topped with beans or meat of your choice, and then top with your choice of cheese, lettuce, tomatoes, salsa, crumbly cheese such as cotija or crema.
Sopes are made from a dough known as masa. This dough is made into little cakes and then pressed or hand-crafted into thick patties with raised edges. Once they have been molded into the right shape, they are lightly fried on each side in a pan with either vegetable oil or lard. They are made with the same ingredients as tortillas, but their size and thickness is much different. Sopes are smaller in diameter — only about 3 inches (7.6 cm) across — and they are significantly thicker than tortillas. Despite their difference in shape and scale, the two items are used in a manner.
Top 10 facts about the world. Sope is a term that refers to both a type of Mexican fried bread and a dish that uses the bread as a base for different toppings, constituting a snack or street food. Basic sope — made from corn flour, water and sometimes baking soda and formed into a small circle of dough — is fried in oil. The outer edge of the finished sope is then pinched to create a rim that is used to help hold ingredients on top.
The sope has been adopted and adapted to the local tastes of all Mexico's regions. This resulted in the creation of many traditional food specialties which may appear to resemble the sope, but are considered a different dish. The sope's thickness is meant to support its toppings, and the frying of its exterior surface adds resistance to the moisture of the ingredients. The most common variation of the sope involves simply adding chicken and is widely known as a sope de pollo.
The most common and widely know variation of the sope is the huarache, which is prepared in almost the same manner. However, the huarache normally is two or three times as large as a sope and has a characteristic oblong shape. Huaraches are usually topped with rib, chicken or beefsteak meat. The sope's thickness is meant to support its toppings, and the frying of its exterior surface adds resistance to the moisture of the ingredients. The most common variation of the sope involves simply adding chicken and is widely known as a sope de pollo.
Directions. 1  Pour masa and salt into a bowl, add in enough water to moisten masa. 2  Form masa into balls the size of a large egg. 3  Place a piece of plastic wrap on the tortilla press or your kitchen counter. 4  Heat a griddle or comal on medium high, cook each sope for 1 minute. 5  Once all sopes are cooked and formed cover them with a dry towel. 6  Serve 7  ... N 1 Fry each sope on both sides for 3 minutes. 2  Place them on paper towels to blot off some of the extra oil. 3  Serve topped with beans or meat of your choice, and then top with your choice of cheese, lettuce, tomatoes, salsa, crumbly cheese such as cotija or crema.
Ad. A heated pan is filled with a shallow layer of oil and the sope dough is placed inside. The dough browns on both sides, but is not cooked long enough to fully set the dough in the center. This gives the bread a heavy feeling and a resilient texture that can be folded without breaking. Basic sope — made from corn flour, water and sometimes baking soda and formed into a small circle of dough — is fried in oil. The outer edge of the finished sope is then pinched to create a rim that is used to help hold ingredients on top.
Today, I'm here to talk about sopes: another delicious Mexican snack that uses masa as its base. Sopes before being fried. A sope is a thin, shallow shell of masa that's fried until it's just crisp, the hot and tender interior piled high with any number of fillings (most often including meat). My very favorite is a traditional potato-chorizo filling. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. In the culinary world, the sope is a sort of cousin to the tortilla. They are made with the same ingredients as tortillas, but their size and thickness is much different. Sopes are smaller in diameter — only about 3 inches (7.6 cm) across — and they are significantly thicker than tortillas. Despite their difference in shape and scale, the two items are used in a manner.