The good guys are unsaturated fats: monounsaturateds (MUFAs), found in foods like olive oil and avocados, and polyunsaturateds (PUFAs), found in sunflower and corn oils, among others, and in the omega-3s in salmon and walnuts. 
Understanding Unsaturated Fats For Better Health. Unsaturated fats include the two heart healthy choices-polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats. Found primarily in fish, plant oils, seeds and nuts, these healthy fats have been shown to lower blood cholesterol levels and lessen your risk of cardiovascular disease. Many studies also show that unsaturated fats even help to lower LDL cholesterol slightly when included as part of a diet low in trans fats and saturated fats. Though fats get a bad name, they are necessary in your diet to maintain warmth in the body, keep skin and hair healthy and store energy.
A polyunsaturated fat has two or more double bonds in its carbon chain. There are two main types of polyunsaturated fats: omega-3 fatty acids and omega-6 fatty acids. The numbers refer to the distance between the beginning of the carbon chain and the first double bond. Both types offer health benefits. This structure keeps monounsaturated fats liquid at room temperature. Good sources of monounsaturated fats are olive oil, peanut oil, canola oil, avocados, and most nuts, as well as high-oleic safflower and sunflower oils. The discovery that monounsaturated fat could be healthful came from the Seven Countries Study during the 1960
But let's not ignore polyunsaturated fats. These are often a good source of omega-3 fatty acids, found mostly in cold-water fish, nuts, oils and seeds, and also in dark leafy greens, flaxseed oils and some vegetable oils. At the end of the day, a good fat is still a fat in terms of calories. Any labels on cooking oil that describe the oil as light, are referring to the taste or color, not the fat or calorie content. All oils are 100 percent fat and are worth around 120 calories per tablespoon
Thus, a saturated fat has no double bonds, has the maximum number of hydrogens bonded to the carbons, and therefore is saturated with hydrogen atoms. In cellular metabolism, unsaturated fat molecules contain somewhat less energy (i.e., fewer calories) than an equivalent amount of saturated fat. The greater the degree of unsaturation in a fatty acid (i.e., the more double bonds in the fatty acid) the more vulnerable it is to lipid peroxidation (rancidity).
It also lowers triglycerides. Good sources of omega-3 fatty acids include fatty fish such as salmon, mackerel, and sardines, flaxseeds, walnuts, canola oil, and unhydrogenated soybean oil. Omega-3 fatty acids may help prevent and even treat heart disease and stroke. This structure keeps monounsaturated fats liquid at room temperature. Good sources of monounsaturated fats are olive oil, peanut oil, canola oil, avocados, and most nuts, as well as high-oleic safflower and sunflower oils. The discovery that monounsaturated fat could be healthful came from the Seven Countries Study during the 1960s
1 Polyunsaturated fat. 2  This is a type of fat found mostly in plant-based foods and oils. 3  Evidence shows that eating foods rich in polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs) improves blood cholesterol levels, which can decrease your risk of heart disease. 4  PUFAs may also help decrease the risk of type 2 diabetes. 5  Omega-3 fatty acids. 1 One type of polyunsaturated fat is made up of mainly omega-3 fatty acids and may be especially beneficial to your heart. 2  Omega-3, found in some types of fatty fish, appears to decrease the risk of coronary artery disease.
An unsaturated fat is a fat or fatty acid in which there is at least one double bond within the fatty acid chain. A fatty acid chain is monounsaturated if it contains one double bond, and polyunsaturated if it contains more than one double bond. Where double bonds are formed, hydrogen atoms are eliminated. In cellular metabolism, unsaturated fat molecules contain somewhat less energy (i.e., fewer calories) than an equivalent amount of saturated fat. The greater the degree of unsaturation in a fatty acid (i.e., the more double bonds in the fatty acid) the more vulnerable it is to lipid peroxidation (rancidity).