DEFINITION of 'Appraisal Management Company-AMC'. A U.S. independent entity through which mortgage lenders order residential real estate valuation services for properties on which they are considering extending loans to homebuyers. BREAKING DOWN 'Appraisal Management Company-AMC'. Appraisal management companies have been around for decades, but they became more important after the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007 and 2008, when new federal regulations limited the amount of direct contact that lenders could have with appraisers.
Download this issue brief (PDF: 231 KB). An Appraisal Management Company (AMC) works with lenders and appraisers to facilitate the ordering, tracking, quality control and delivery of appraisal reports. AMCs have been in existence since the 1960s, but in limited numbers when compared to today. The AMC is providing a service as an agent for the lender. Lenders are mandated by federal legislation to maintain real estate appraisal programs that independently engage appraisers for federally related transactions. Many l enders use Appraisal Management Companies (AMCs) to fulfill that role.
Vanguard Appraisal Management is more than just an appraisal management company. We want to be your partner in success for both lenders and appraisers alike. We feel that knowing your client and their specific needs enables us to help them exceed their expectations and provide a quality product. 
Related Videos. 0. An appraisal management company (AMC) is a business entity that — for a management fee — administers a network of certified and licensed appraisers to fulfill real estate appraisal assignments on behalf of mortgage lending institutions. 1. rank. 1. Appraisal Management Company (AMC) is a fairly recent mortgage term. AMC is the intermediary between the interested parties (lender, borrower, realtor, mortgage broker…etc) and the appraiser. AMC's were created to uniform the appraisal process and help prevent mortgage fraud.
Lenders Choice, Inc. (LCI), is a Residential Real Estate Appraisal Management Company providing valuation services targeted towards the mortgage lending industry. 
Collateral Management is a nationwide residential and commercial real estate Appraisal Management Company (AMC) that provides valuation services by certified real estate appraisers. Appraisal Compliance › AMC State Certificates›. Collateral Management is comprised of the best appraisal management company professionals and former lending industry executives with over 15 years of originations and appraisal operations experience.
Appraisal/Evaluation management is when an individual or group employs Licensed, Certified and General appraisers to fulfill real estate appraisal assignments, and qualified real estate professionals to fulfill evaluation assignments, on behalf of the mortgage lender. Meeting Federal requirements is the primary reason community banks start considering an appraisal management company, but a second and ever more important reason, is that the community bank or credit union saves money on every transaction.
An appraisal management company (AMC) is a business entity that administers a network of certified and licensed appraisers to fulfill real estate appraisal assignments on behalf of mortgage lending institutions. 
An appraisal management company (AMC) is a business entity that administers a network of certified and licensed appraisers to fulfill real estate appraisal assignments on behalf of mortgage lending institutions, as well as other entities. 1. rank. 1. Appraisal Management Company (AMC) is a fairly recent mortgage term. AMC is the intermediary between the interested parties (lender, borrower, realtor, mortgage broker…etc) and the appraiser. AMC's were created to uniform the appraisal process and help prevent mortgage fraud.