Stinging nettle, the primary ingredient in nettle tea, has a long history of medicinal use in Europe. The leaves and stem of the plant have fine hairs all along the outside, which creates a “stinging” feeling when it comes into contact with your skin, thus giving the plant its name. Nettle tea is rich in antioxidants and can be used to treat a range of conditions with varying degrees of effectiveness. Nettle tea is most commonly made from the dried leaves and stems of the nettle plant. However, in some cases, nettle root may also be included. Making your own nettle tea, from dried or fresh nettle, can help you tailor it to your needs
Definition: Nettle tea is an herbal 'tea' made from the leaves and / or roots of the stinging nettle plant. Stinging Nettles. The stinging nettle plant (Urtica dioica) is the best known of the family of nettle plants, also known as the genus Urtica in the family Urticaceae. Generally, one teaspoon of fresh or dried nettle per cup of ‘tea’ is a good ratio, though some people use up to four teaspoons of dry leaf per 2/3 cup water. For a stronger infusion, you can crush the leaves with a mortar and pestle just before adding the water. A maximum dosage of four cups a day is recommended
Nettle tea is a natural diuretic that allows proper fluid flow in the kidneys and bladder, thus preventing the formation of kidney stones.The Journal of Herbal Pharmacotherapy states that nettle tea can flush out toxins from the urinary tract and also support the medicines used to treat urinary tract infections. A good tonic for women. Nettle tea is rich in iron and helps to fight anemia. Pregnant women should drink nettle tea to prevent bleeding and makes the fetus strong. Nettle also functions as a galactagogue, that is, a substance that stimulates milk production in nursing mothers.
About Nettle Tea. Nettle tea is most commonly made from the dried leaves and stems of the nettle plant. However, in some cases, nettle root may also be included. Making your own nettle tea, from dried or fresh nettle, can help you tailor it to your needs. Nettle tea is rich in antioxidants and can be used to treat a range of conditions with varying degrees of effectiveness. Nettle tea is most commonly made from the dried leaves and stems of the nettle plant.
Nettle Tea Benefits. Nettle tea affects the kidneys directly. Nettle is a diuretic. [It] increases urine output and removal of uric acid (under physician supervision). Thus it can be useful for edema, inflammatory arthritis or gout, says naturopath Dr. Robert Kachko, ND, LAc. 
Preparation and side effects. Nettle leaf can be use externally as an ointment and also consumed as nettle tea. To make nettle tea, just steep one to two teaspoons of dried nettle leaves in boiling water for 5–10 minutes and your wonderful cup of nettle tea is ready! You can add nettle root tinctures for added benefits. You can also flavor your cup of nettle tea with lime and honey. A good tonic for women. Nettle tea is rich in iron and helps to fight anemia. Pregnant women should drink nettle tea to prevent bleeding and makes the fetus strong. Nettle also functions as a galactagogue, that is, a substance that stimulates milk production in nursing mothers.
Nettle herbal tea is made from the leaves – fresh or dried -, roots and seeds of this herb. There are numerous varieties of this plant, but it is the stinging nettle (urtica dioica) that is best known for its health benefits. Nettle is a green perennial herb that reaches 1 to 2 meters in height in the summer. Benefits of Nettle Tea. 1  This tea is made from leaves that are rich in vitamins A, B 1, B 5, C, D, E and K, iron, potassium, copper, zinc, magnesium, calcium and others. 2  It also contains flavonoids, essential amino acids and proteins.