1 Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne. 2  Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms. 1 Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms. 2  These different diseases have many different symptoms, so there is no one syndrome that is foodborne illness.
Nature of Infectious Diseases. Microorganisms that are capable of causing disease are called pathogens. Although microorganisms that cause disease often receive the most attention, it is important to note that most microorganisms do not cause disease. An infectious disease is a disease that is caused by the invasion of a host by agents whose activities harm the host's tissues (that is, they cause disease) and can be transmitted to other individuals (that is, they are infectious).
A pathogen is an organism that causes disease (they are PATHOlogy GENerators). A pathogen that does not cause disease is an oxymoron. Diseases caused by pathogens are often contagious and include things such as Meningitis, Influenza and Tuberculosis. Diseases not caused by pathogens are generally things wh … ich go wrong in the body. For example, Cancer, Multiple Sclerosis and Motor Neurone Disease are all diseases not caused by pathogens
Confidence votes 40.5K. The symptoms are your body's way of reacting to a disease. It is often said that pathogens are the same as germs and cause only infectious disease, however, the word can mean the agent that causes any type of disease. Diseases caused by pathogens are often contagious and include things such as Meningitis, Influenza and Tuberculosis. Diseases not caused by pathogens are generally things wh … ich go wrong in the body. For example, Cancer, Multiple Sclerosis and Motor Neurone Disease are all diseases not caused by pathogens.
In biology, a pathogen (Greek: πάθος pathos “suffering, passion” and -γενής -genēs “producer of”) in the oldest and broadest sense is anything that can produce disease, a term which came into use in the 1880s. Fungi comprise a eukaryotic kingdom of microbes that are usually saprophytes (consume dead organisms) but can cause diseases in humans, animals and plants. Fungi are the most common cause of diseases in crops and other plants. The typical fungal spore size is 1-40 micrometers in length.
There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen. Diseases caused by organisms in humans are known as pathogenic diseases. Fungi comprise a eukaryotic kingdom of microbes that are usually saprophytes (consume dead organisms) but can cause diseases in humans, animals and plants. Fungi are the most common cause of diseases in crops and other plants. The typical fungal spore size is 1-40 micrometers in length.
Once you are infected bacteria grow and reproduce inside the cells of your body. As they grow and divide, many bacteria make toxins (poisons). These toxins can damage your cells. Some bacteria damage your cells directly as they grow. Disease symptoms such as a high temperature, headaches and rashes can be caused by the damage and toxins or by the way your body responds to the damage and toxins produced by the bacteria. In this way they direct your cells to make copies of the virus until eventually the cell bursts, releasing many more viruses to infect other cells. In this way viruses kill infected cells, spread and damage body tissues. The way your body responds to the bursting of the cells causes the symptoms of the disease.
Most of the damage done to host cells by Bacteria is inflicted by toxins. Toxins are poisonous substances that a … re sometimes produced by microorganisms. These poisons are transported by the blood and can cause serious and sometimes fatal effects. Diseases caused by pathogens are often contagious and include things such as Meningitis, Influenza and Tuberculosis. Diseases not caused by pathogens are generally things wh … ich go wrong in the body. For example, Cancer, Multiple Sclerosis and Motor Neurone Disease are all diseases not caused by pathogen
What type of pathogen causes Lyme disease? Lyme disease is an infection that is spread by the bite of ticks infected with the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi.   Symptoms include fatigue, headache, stiff neck, fever, … muscle or joint pain and swelling, and sometimes an expanding red rash. Diseases caused by pathogens are often contagious and include things such as Meningitis, Influenza and Tuberculosis. Diseases not caused by pathogens are generally things wh … ich go wrong in the body. For example, Cancer, Multiple Sclerosis and Motor Neurone Disease are all diseases not caused by pathogens