The Last Supper is one of several major events in the earthly life of Jesus Christ that are recorded in the Bible. The Last Supper is a description of the last meal Jesus Christ had with His disciples prior to His arrest and crucifixion on a roman cross about 2,000 years ago. The Last Supper contains many significant principles, and continues to be an important part of Christian lives throughout the world. The Last Supper is described in three of the four New Testament Gospels, Matthew, Mark and Luke.
The Last Supper-Story Summary: On the first day of the Festival of Unleavened Bread or Passover, Jesus sent two of his disciples ahead with very specific instructions on where to prepare the Passover meal. These verses surrounding the Last Supper form the biblical basis for the practice of Communion. There are 3 main Christian views regarding the blood and the wine during the practice of Communion: 1  The bread and the wine become the actual body and blood of Christ. 2  The Catholic term for this is Transubstantiation.
Depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art have been undertaken by artistic masters for centuries, Leonardo da Vinci's late 1490s mural painting in Milan, Italy, being the best-known example. In the Gospel of John, after the departure of Judas from the Last Supper, Jesus tells his remaining eleven disciples that he will be with them for only a short time, then gives them a New Commandment, stating: “A new command I give you: Love one another.
2 In Matthew, Mark and Luke (the synoptic gospels), the last supper is a Passover meal. Jesus was therefore crucified after this Passover meal, on Nisan 15. Hence John and the synoptic gospels apparently disagree not only on whether the last supper was a Passover meal or not, but also on the date of the crucifixion. 1 John places the last supper, the trials and the crucifixion of Jesus all before the official Jewish Passover meal. In John’s account, Jesus died at the time the first Passover lambs were slain, at about 3 p.m. on the fourteenth day of the Jewish month Nisan.
The Last Supper is the final meal that, in the Gospel accounts, Jesus shared with his Apostles in Jerusalem before his crucifixion. The Last Supper is commemorated by Christians especially on Maundy Thursday. In the Gospel of John, after the departure of Judas from the Last Supper, Jesus tells his remaining eleven disciples that he will be with them for only a short time, then gives them a New Commandment, stating: “A new command I give you: Love one another.
The Last Supper was very significant because Jesus showed his disciples he was about to become the Passover Lamb of God. His blood would open the door to freedom. His followers would exchange slavery to sin and death for eternal life in God's Kingdom. These verses surrounding the Last Supper form the biblical basis for the practice of Communion. There are 3 main Christian views regarding the blood and the wine during the practice of Communion: 1  The bread and the wine become the actual body and blood of Christ. 2  The Catholic term for this is Transubstantiation.
The Last Supper. Jesus shares bread and wine with His disciples at the Last Supper. As Jesus and His disciples were eating, Jesus again surprised and upset all the disciples. He said, Truly I tell you, one of you who is eating with Me will betray Me!. All the disciples looked around and said, Surely, it is not I, Lord.. 
Luke 22:19-22 - And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake [it], and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me. (Read More...). John 14:6 - Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. Bible verses related to The Last Supper from the King James Version (KJV) by Relevance. - Sort By Book Order. Mark 14:18-26 - And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me. (Read More...).
With his disciples gathered around him, Jesus partakes of his Last Supper. The meal in this late-15th-century painting by the Spanish artist known only as the Master of Perea consists of lamb, unleavened bread and wine—all elements of the Seder feast celebrated on the first night of the Jewish Passover festival. Against the “single” testimony of the synoptics that the Last Supper was a Passover meal stands the lone Gospel of John, which dates the crucifixion to the “day of Preparation for the Passover” (John 19:14).