Nike has been accused of using sweatshops since the early 1970s, when it produced goods in South Korea, People's Republic of China and Taiwan. As their economies developed, workers became more productive, wages rose, and many workers moved on to higher paying jobs. Labor unions also gained more influence. 
[Sweatshop critics] say that we shouldn't buy from countries like Vietnam because of its labor standards, they've got it all wrong. Social critics complain that sweatshop workers often do not earn enough money to buy the products that they make, even though such items are often commonplace goods such as T-shirts, shoes, and toys.
1 Clothing is very often made in sweatshops and with the use of child labor. 2  In the U.S. the majority of garment workers are immigrant women that work 60-80 hours a week, usually without minimum wage or overtime pay. For more information on what a sweatshop is, I encourage you to read the What to Know about Sweatshops by Green America and Frequently Asked Questions: Free Trade and Sweatshops by Global Exchange. These articles give a very good overview of what a sweatshop is and why sweatshops simply aren't acceptable.
As a result, sweatshops with their poverty wages, forced overtime, and dangerous working conditions are the norm for tens of millions of workers in the global apparel industry where contract shops compete relentlessly for customers by cutting costs and pressuring workers to work harder for less. A sweatfree campaign is an effective way to create public awareness of working conditions in the production of consumer goods, and transform outrage about sweatshops into engagement with local institutions. People working locally on global problems are a powerful force for change.
Because of the poor working conditions. Having to sweat all day at a job because the work is very hard and there are few if any comforts in the workplace. Conjures a picture of someone working hard with sweat pouring off. There are sweatshop's everywhere, and it is because they are generally very hot and unventilated. But, as of late when talking about sweatshops most think of kids working overseas.
The work may be difficult, dangerous or underpaid. Workers in sweatshops may work long hours for low pay, regardless of laws mandating overtime pay or a minimum wage; child labor laws may also be violated. Social critics complain that sweatshop workers often do not earn enough money to buy the products that they make, even though such items are often commonplace goods such as T-shirts, shoes, and toys.
1 Clothing. 2  Clothing is very often made in sweatshops and with the use of child labor. 3  In the U.S. the majority of garment workers are immigrant women that work 60-80 hours a week, usually without minimum wage or overtime pay. For more information on what a sweatshop is, I encourage you to read the What to Know about Sweatshops by Green America and Frequently Asked Questions: Free Trade and Sweatshops by Global Exchange. These articles give a very good overview of what a sweatshop is and why sweatshops simply aren't acceptable.
Sweatshops are an issue because there are many negative things about them. For a start, workers on average have to work 12-18 hours a day with incredibly low pay in incredibly … dangerous conditions and often can be abused in physical and even sexual ways. 
Before you start reading the articles, let's first introduce you to what sweatshops are: A sweatshop is a workplace where workers endure harsh conditions and long hours for very little pay. For example, some activists believe that it is more beneficial to work in a sweatshop than being out in the streets. Others, however, believe it is crucial to eliminate sweatshops altogether. In addition, sweatshops are more threatening in some areas more than others.
Sweatshop (or sweat factory) is a negatively connoted term for any working environment considered to be unacceptably difficult or dangerous-especially by those from developed countries with high standards of living. However, sweatshops may exist in any country. 