In Turkish legend, it refers to the she wolf who found and nursed an orphaned baby boy (who was to later found the Ashina dynasty of Turks).Ashina was a tribe and the ruling dynasty of the ancient Turks who rose to prominence in the mid-6th century when their leader, Bumin Khan, revolted against the Rouran.
List of American baby names, American baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & American names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of American baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Ashina in American origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
It is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Aisha is  alive and well. Also possibly means life in Swahili. Aisha was a wife of the prophet Muhammad. The name is also linked to the moon goddess. Use in the English-speaking world is recent and many variants have been created from this name due to its pleasing sounds.
List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Ashiana in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
This project has been founded in 2007 as The Royal Ashina of Khazaria DNA project. It was the very first DNA project with aim to properly attribute origin of haplogroup Q-M242 among Ashkenazi. This name was coin to describe hetereogenous judaised rulling class of the Khazarian Empire.
Tashina /tash-ina/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Tashina's name origins are American and Russian, and Tashina means birthday. Tashina is a version of Ta- (American). Tashina is also a variant of Tasha (Russian): short version of Natasha.