If you are covered with a health insurance, you are typically going to pay an average of $1,000 or slightly higher depending on how much the deductibles and the coinsurance amounts. For those not covered by medical insurance, the cost can range from $2,000-$3,000.
If you’re planning a colonoscopy, you might want to ask for the price in advance. Make sure that the price quoted to you includes everything: doctor’s fee, anesthesiology, lab tests and facility fee (sometimes but not always) are the main charges.
1 However, it can cost significantly more -- up to about $1,500 if performed in a hospital, which would charge a facility fee. 2  The disadvantage of flexible sigmoidoscopy is that the doctor only is able to view half of the colon, and it is recommended every five years instead of every 10.
The cost of a colonoscopy will vary depending on your geographical location, your health insurance, and the facility performing the procedure.
What should be included: Additional costs: 1  During the procedure, the patient is sedated, then the doctor uses a flexible tube with a camera and light on it -- a colonoscope -- to examine the rectum and inside the full length of the colon. 2  If anything suspicious is found, the doctor can take a sample for biopsy.
A colonoscopy is a screening test for colon cancer. It is recommended that people of average risk get a colonoscopy or other type of screening every 10 years starting at age 50. People at high risk should begin screening earlier, and sometimes more often, according to the American Cancer Society.
Discover the Preventive Benefits of a Colonoscopy. For those who are asking the average cost of colonoscopy, it typically changes depending on different factors. But before knowing what the cost is, let’s find out first what a colonoscopy is for. It’s a procedure done if you want to be screened for colon cancer.
Anesthesia: You might think that anesthesia would be included with the price of a colonoscopy. After all, it’s not surprising that many patients would want to be anesthetized when they are having a colonoscopy. But for quite awhile, patients were being billed for anesthesia, which by itself can run be $1,000 or more.