For best results, charge the battery fully the first time you use iPod shuffle. A depleted battery can be 80-percent charged in about two hours and fully charged in about four hours. If iPod shuffle isn’t used for a while, the battery might need to be recharged. Here's what the battery status light means when you turn on or disconnect an iPod shuffle (2nd generation): 1  Green = good charge (30% - 100%). Tip: When charging iPod shuffle, make sure the computer is not in sleep mode. If you want to check battery status while it is charging, eject iPod shuffle from iTunes before checking. Sleep mode on some computers can turn off USB signals and prevent battery status from working.
Best Answer: How long does it take to charge iPod shuffle? A new iPod shuffle battery is 80-percent charged in about two hours and fully charged in about four hours. Source(s): http://support.apple.com/kb/ht2018. Marinko K · 5 years ago.
1 When you perform a battery check of iPod shuffle, the status light has several different indications that indicate what percentage of charge is left. 2  The 3rd and 4th generation iPod shuffles also give you a voice over message telling you the charge in your battery. Charge the battery using the power outlet. If you have an iPod AC adapter, you can charge your Shuffle using the outlet. Plug the USB end of the power adapter cable into the AC power adapter.
I've finally got round to using this ipod shuffle I got for Christmas (has taken me all this time to put CDs onto itunes and turn it all into playlists!). The instructions say to charge it for 3 hours, and that when full, the light will stop flashing orange and to go green. My laptop has to be awake, apparently. So, I've had the ipod on charge for 11 hours now, and have kept prodding the laptop to make sure it wasn't having a nap...
If you connect to a low or non-powered port, iPod shuffle will not charge. Once the iPod shuffle is plugged in, it will take about 2 hours to charge the battery to 80% capacity and about 4 hours to charge it to 100%. Find out how to check the battery charge here. For information on status lights while connected, click here. 1 Connect the iPod shuffle USB cable connector into a high-power USB port on your computer. 2  Note: To charge an iPod shuffle battery, connect the device to a high-power USB port. 3  Please be aware that USB keyboards and non-powered USB hubs generally do not have high-power USB ports.
Charging. If your iPod shuffle won't turn on or respond, the battery is most likely dead. Connecting the iPod Shuffle to a high-powered USB port on your computer starts the charging process. If the battery was completely dead, it may take a few minutes for the battery to charge before the player can power on. The status light on the iPod Shuffle turns solid orange when the battery is charging.
Your Shuffle should play up to 15 hours of music on a full charge. It takes about 2 hours of charging time to reach an 80% charge and 3 hours of charging time to reach a 100% charge. 1 Wait 15 seconds, then flip the Shuffle switch back on. 2  Make sure the charging cord is plugged all the way into the iPod headphone jack and reconnect to the computer. 3  Depending on how long the battery has been dead, it can sometimes take up to 10 minutes for iTunes to recognize your iPod.
Once the iPod shuffle is plugged in, it will take about 2 hours to charge the battery to 80% capacity and about 3 hours to charge it to 100%. Find out how to check the battery charge here. For information on status lights while connected, click here. 1 Connect the iPod shuffle USB cable connector into a high-power USB port on your computer. 2  Note: To charge an iPod shuffle battery, connect the device to a high-power USB port. 3  Please be aware that USB keyboards and non-powered USB hubs generally do not have high-power USB ports.
2. Charge your battery using your computer. Plug the USB end of the iPod shuffle USB connector into your computer’s USB port. It must be a high-power USB port; keyboards with USB ports and non-powered USB hubs will not allow charging. Charge the battery using the power outlet. If you have an iPod AC adapter, you can charge your Shuffle using the outlet. Plug the USB end of the power adapter cable into the AC power adapter.