The Faces on the Totem Poles are used to scare of enemies, but as life went on they changed what they did with them, they added on dancing around them to give them luck and sing around them. They also used to learn their ancestary from them and used to tell spooky stories at night for entertainment. ------ While totem poles do tell stories, they also represent a clan's crest, social rank, and affiliation. Totem poles were also carved to memorialize a deceased person. Animals carved on totem poles may represent the carver's crest, clan, or figures in a clan's story. It is not only animals or mythical creatures carved on totem poles, sometimes people and other objects are carved on them also
Totem poles are monumental sculptures carved on poles, posts, or pillars with symbols or figures made from large trees, mostly western red cedar, by indigenous peoples of the Pacific Northwest coast of North America (northwestern United States and Canada's western province, British Columbia). Poles similar to totem poles are also found elsewhere in the world. Due to their similarities, they are often described as totem poles. Notable cultures with examples of totem pole-like objects are the indigenous people of Jilin, northeast China; the Koreans; and the Māori, an indigenous people of New Zealand.
• TOTEM POLE (noun). The noun TOTEM POLE has 1 sense: 1. a tribal emblem consisting of a pillar carved and painted with totemic figures; erected by Indian tribes of the northwest Pacific coast. Familiarity information: TOTEM POLE used as a noun is very rare.
Totem poles held messages by those that carved them. Carvings were symbols that may tell a story of the carver, such as his part not just in his own family but his standing within a tribe. Carvings such as an eagle could mean pride in his tribe. Often traditions and tribal life were carved into the pole. Many Native American Indians expressed themselves with their artwork carved into totem poles. Many believe that all Indian tribes carved totem poles but this is far from the truth. Those Indians living in the southwest, the plains and Inuit Indians did not have trees to carve.
The word totem derives from the Algonquian (most likely Ojibwe) word odoodem [ oˈtuːtɛm ], his kinship group. Totem poles are not religious objects, but they do communicate important aspects of native culture. Carvings of animals and other characters typically represent characters or events in a story. Poles similar to totem poles are also found elsewhere in the world. Due to their similarities, they are often described as totem poles. Notable cultures with examples of totem pole-like objects are the indigenous people of Jilin, northeast China; the Koreans; and the Māori, an indigenous people of New Zealand.
I have read elsewhere that the Raven and the Beaver are very common on totem poles and the majority of totem poles are topped by a bird: raven, eagle, or thunderbird. Thunderbird: Thunderbird is the most powerful supernatural creature. He lived in the mountains and fed on whales. 
Sometimes symbols on totem poles were related to a tribe's religion or their myths. Other times the symbols on them had to with real lilfe events. ANIMALS. The animals on a totem pole had to do with animals that lived in the region that the tribe lived in. Like Alaskan totem poles had images of whales, walrus', seals, and caribou (an animal in the moose family) on them. 
Native American Totems & Their Meanings. A totem is a spirit being, sacred object, or symbol of a tribe, clan, family or individual. Native American tradition provides that each individual is connected with nine different animals that will accompany each person through life, acting as guides. Animal Characteristics & Meaning. A totem is a spirit being, sacred object, or symbol of a tribe, clan, family or individual. Native American tradition provides that each individual is connected with nine different animals that will accompany each person through life, acting as guides.