In 2015, New Zealand citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 170 countries and territories, ranking the New Zealand passport 4th in the world (tied with Belgium, Canada, Portugal, Spain) according to the Visa Restrictions Index. The Czech Republic allows New Zealand citizens to apply for a work visa under a special scheme known as a 'Green Card' (rather than a 'Blue Card' or work permit which is required by most non-EU citizens).
Visa Free Countries for travel to New Zealand. If you are visiting New Zealand for three months or less and are from a country in the list below, you will not need a visa to enter or to transit, but you will need to hold an outward ticket to a destination that you have the right of entry: Australian citizens and people who hold a current Australian permanent residence visa or a current Australian resident return visa do not need a New Zealand visitor visa to enter
Unless you are an Australian or New Zealand citizen, you will need a visa to enter Australia. Unless you are an Australian or New Zealand citizen, you will need a visa to enter Australia. New Zealand passport holders can apply for a visa upon arrival in the country. All other passport holders must apply for a visa before leaving home
During the visa exemption period, New Zealand citizens are permitted to work in Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Iceland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Slovenia and Sweden. The Czech Republic allows New Zealand citizens to apply for a work visa under a special scheme known as a 'Green Card' (rather than a 'Blue Card' or work permit which is required by most non-EU citizens).
If you come from Visa-waiver countries, you don't need a visa to enter New Zealand, but are still required to provide: 1  Travel tickets or evidence of onward travel arrangements. 2  Evidence that you can support yourself in New Zealand (approximately NZ$1000 per month per person). When you arrive in New Zealand, you’ll need to be carrying a passport that is valid for at least three months beyond your intended departure date. Many people will qualify for visa-free entry, but depending on your country of origin, some will need to apply for a visa before they travel.
This visa is single-entry, valid for 90 days and the applicant is permitted to stay up to 90 days. Obtaining a work permit and opening a bank account is possible. This is often a multiple-entry visa which is valid for use for a period of 1 year stay in Thailand. This type of visa permits the holder a stay of 90 days per entry, which means you need to do a border-run every 90 days at a Thai Immigration Office or get an exit and entry stamp at the immigration checkpoint (visa run). Siam Legal International offers service on the following types of visa to citizens of New Zealand: This visa is issued to applicants who wish to enter the Kingdom for the purpose of study (ED), conducting business (B), family visit (O), and performing official duties (F), religious works (R) and other activities.
Visa Information. Unless you are an Australian or New Zealand citizen, you will need a visa to enter Australia. New Zealand passport holders can apply for a visa upon arrival in the country. All other passport holders must apply for a visa before leaving home
Austria allows New Zealand citizens to enter the country without a visa and to apply for a temporary residence permit or a 'Red-White-Red Card' (issued to permanent immigrants) after arrival, rather than in advance through an Austrian embassy/consulate. The Czech Republic allows New Zealand citizens to apply for a work visa under a special scheme known as a 'Green Card' (rather than a 'Blue Card' or work permit which is required by most non-EU citizens).
Citizens of New Zealand are permitted to stay in Thailand up to 30 days if entering via international airport and up to 15 days if entering through a land border checkpoint from a neighboring country (Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia) under the Visa Exemption Rule. Siam Legal International offers service on the following types of visa to citizens of New Zealand: This visa is issued to applicants who wish to enter the Kingdom for the purpose of study (ED), conducting business (B), family visit (O), and performing official duties (F), religious works (R) and other activities.