GABA (Gamma Aminobutyric Acid) is a natural occurring brain chemical or neurotransmitter that sends signals from your nerve cell to a specific target cell. The main role of GABA is to have a calming effect on you and your nervous system. 
GABA – it’s full scientific name is gamma-aminobutyric acid – occurs naturally in your brain, where it functions as a neurotransmitter and helps regulate brain activity. It is also needed in other parts of your body, where its most important function is regulating muscle tone. Too much, and you can’t get moving…. GABA is technically an amino acid, though it’s not part of any protein either in the food you eat, or in your body. You can get small amounts from food, but most of it in synthesised in your body from glutamate – something you most likely have plenty of.
GABA (gamma aminobutyric acid) is a non-essential amino acid found mainly in the human brain and eyes. It is considered an inhibitory neurotransmitter, which means it regulates brain and nerve cell activity by inhibiting the number of neurons firing in the brain. 
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an amino acid that is the second most prevalent neurotransmitter in the brain. Amino acids build proteins in the body, and neurotransmitters are chemicals needed for the synapses to transfer information in human gray matter. 
INTRODUCTION: Gamma-Amino Butyric acid (GABA) is an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. It inhibits nerve transmission in the brain, calming nervous activity. As a supplement it is sold and promoted for these neurotransmitter effects as a natural tranquilizer. GABA'S ROLE IN THE BRAIN. GABA is made in brain cells from glutamate, and functions as an inhibitory neurotransmitter meaning that it blocks nerve impulses. Glutamate acts as an excitatory neurotransmitter and when bound to adjacent cells encourages them to fire and send a nerve impulse.
Gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the second most common neurotransmitter chemical in the human brain. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter--it calms and reduces the activity of neurons. Because GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, it is involved in processes in which neural activity is reduced, such as anxiety reduction, calming, and release of tension.
GABA is short for gamma-aminobutyric acid. It functions as an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the brain that directly affects the personality and the capability to manage stress. If you struggle to fall asleep or stay asleep, GABA can help you sleep better because it aids in the relaxation of the brain. 
Loading ... GABA supplements are being promoted by many as a safe and natural way to reduce anxiety levels and help combat stress. This chemical occurs naturally in your brain and produces feelings of calm, lessens the neurological signs of nervousness and stress, increases focus and is a sleep aid. GABA and the Blood-Brain Barrier. Despite all of these benefits of GABA, you might be wondering why GABA supplements themselves are ineffective for anxiety. The reason has to do with something called the blood-brain barrier which is a system in your brain that separates circulating blood from reaching your brain tissue.
Gabaergic neurons which produce GABA. Exogenous GABA does not penetrate the blood–brain barrier; it is synthesized in the brain. It is synthesized from glutamate using the enzyme L-glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) and pyridoxal phosphate (which is the active form of vitamin B6) as a cofactor. Neurons that produce GABA as their output are called GABAergic neurons, and have chiefly inhibitory action at receptors in the adult vertebrate. Medium Spiny Cells are a typical example of inhibitory CNS GABAergic cells.
GABA, abbreviation for gamma-aminobutyric acid. γ-aminobutyric acid An amino acid that is the major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate gray matter; it is excitatory in the hippocampus; GABAergic neurons are classified according to the direction of the cell processes, and signal transmitted/received. 