The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impaired. The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease.
The normal range for serum creatinine (in the blood) is usually between 0.6 and 1.3 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) although it varies between labs, between men and women, and by age. ... A high serum creatinine level means your kidneys aren't working well. If they are healthy, the kidneys typically keep blood creatinine levels in a normal range. As such, creatinine levels are a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. If the kidneys become impaired for any reason, the creatinine level in the blood will rise.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
Normal range of serum creatinine level will differ with age, gender and physical constitute. In adult men, normal range of serum creatinine is 0.9-1.3mg/dl; while in adult women, normal range of creatinine is 0.6 to 1.1mg/dl. A muscular young man will have a higher normal creatinine result than the senior people with poorer health conditions. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females.
A patient with a greater muscle mass will have a higher creatinine level. While a baseline serum creatinine of 2.0 mg/dL (150 μmol/L) may indicate normal kidney function in a male body builder, a serum creatinine of 1.6 mg/dL (110 μmol/L) can indicate significant renal disease in an elderly female.
One mg/dL of creatinine is 88.4 μmol/L. The typical human reference ranges for serum creatinine are 0.5 to 1.0 mg/dL (about 45-90 μmol/L) for women and 0.7 to 1.2 mg/dL (60-110 μmol/L) for men. The significance of a single creatinine value must be interpreted in light of the patient's muscle mass. While a baseline serum creatinine of 2.0 mg/dL (150 μmol/L) may indicate normal kidney function in a male body builder, a serum creatinine of 1.6 mg/dL (110 μmol/L) can indicate significant renal disease in an elderly female.
The normal range for serum creatinine (in the blood) is usually between 0.6 and 1.3 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) although it varies between labs, between men and women, and by age. ... A high serum creatinine level means your kidneys aren't working well. If they are healthy, the kidneys typically keep blood creatinine levels in a normal range. As such, creatinine levels are a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. If the kidneys become impaired for any reason, the creatinine level in the blood will rise. ...
(1)Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, Kochi Medical School. To estimate normal ranges of blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and serum creatinine (Cr) levels in the aged, we measured BUN and Cr levels in 332 cases of apparent-healthy elderly subjects (male, 152; female, 180) aged 70 years or more. 
In children, the normal range of creatinine is 0.2 to 1.0mg/dl but will increase with age as there is better and better physical constitute and muscle buildup. Two units are often used to measure creatinine level, this is, mg/dl and umol/l. 1 mg/dl equals to 88.4umol/l. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females.
1. Women usually have lower results on the serum creatinine test because they have a lower muscle mass in their bodies. The average range for women is between 0.6 and 1.1 mg/dL and for men it increases to between 0.7 and 1.3 mg/dL. As with the urine creatinine test, the average results can vary depending on the lab and their specific tests and procedures. Because of this, creatinine tests measure the amount of creatinine in urine (for a creatinine urine test) or blood (in a serum creatinine test) and use this information to determine whether the kidneys are functioning normally. The 24 hour sample of urine creatinine will usually range between 500 and 2000 mg/day.