If your driving licence has been taken away because you've been disqualified you must apply for a new licence before you can start driving again. The way in which you apply will depend on whether you're a high risk offender. You're a high risk offender if you: 1  were convicted of 2 drink driving offences within 10 years. You must complete this form and return it to the DVLA. You may have to include a new passport type photograph with your application. If you don't receive your renewal form you can order one from the DVLA's online ordering service https://www.gov.uk/dvlaforms. Bus, coach or lorry licence.
If you are notified that your licence is approved, and your disqualification period has ended you can go to any Service Tasmania shop to have your licence reissued. You must pay a licence processing fee plus the standard driver licence fee and provide Evidence of Identity. If you do not receive your licence, the following business day after the suspension has ended you must visit a Service Tasmania shop or designated Police Station to apply for a duplicate licence. You must provide full Evidence of Identity and pay the duplicate licence fee.
Reapply for your driving licence if you've been disqualified. You need to apply for a new licence before you can start driving again if your licence has been taken away because you’ve been disqualified. Check your driving record online to see when your disqualification finishes. How you reapply depends on whether you’re in the high risk offender category. 
You must apply for a new licence, even if your old licence has not run out. Renewal Reminder. The Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) will send you a D27P ‘driving licence application for renewal after disqualification’ 56 days before your disqualification ends. Photocard Driving Licence Holder. You'll need to: 1  Complete your D27P form. 2  Enclose the payment as shown on the reminder.
Short Period Disqualification (SPD). A disqualification of less than 56 days is known as a Short Period Disqualification (SPD). If you are given an SPD, the court will stamp your paper driving licence or counterpart and give it back to you. You won't need to renew your licence. You must complete this form and return it to the DVLA. You may have to include a new passport type photograph with your application. If you don't receive your renewal form you can order one from the DVLA's online ordering service https://www.gov.uk/dvlaforms. Bus, coach or lorry licence.
You will only receive your licence back if you surrendered it and we have your current postal address. If you do not receive your licence, the following business day after the suspension has ended you must visit a Service Tasmania shop or designated Police Station to apply for a duplicate licence. You must provide full Evidence of Identity and pay the duplicate licence fee.
It is a serious offence to drive while your licence is under court ordered disqualification or cancellation. If you are convicted of this offence, the consequences are that: 1  you will be disqualified from driving for at least 9 months on top of any current disqualification; 
If you are disqualified from driving you may also have your licence or permit cancelled. Disqualification means you are disqualified from holding or obtaining a licence or permit for a period of time. 
Reapplying for a licence after a period of disqualification or ineligibility. When your licence is disqualified, you will be written to by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles 28 days before the end of your disqualification letting your know what you need to do to have your licence reissued. Your licence will not be reissued automatically. If you do not receive your licence, the following business day after the suspension has ended you must visit a Service Tasmania shop or designated Police Station to apply for a duplicate licence. You must provide full Evidence of Identity and pay the duplicate licence fee.
How long a driving ban will last. The court will decide how long the disqualification will last, based on how serious they think the offence is. If you have 12 or more penalty points, you could be banned from driving for: 1  6 months if you get 12 penalty points or more within 3 years. 2  12 months if you get a 2nd disqualification within 3 years. 