The Minoans-The First European Civilization. The Minoan civilization existed on Crete. It was the first European civilization. About 2,500 BC a sophisticated society grew up on the island of Crete. By about 1,950 BC the inhabitants had invented a form of writing using hieroglyphs. This writing is called linear A. The Minoans were a bronze age civilization. (They made tools and weapons from bronze). Their civilization was at its height from about 1700 BC to 1500 BC. However Minoan culture declined after 1450 BC. We are not sure why but they may have been conquered by Mycenaens from mainland Greece
From the Early Bronze Age (3500 BCE to 2600 BCE), the Minoan civilization on Crete showed a promise of greatness. At the end of the MMII period (1700 BCE), there was a large disturbance in Crete, probably an earthquake, or possibly an invasion from Anatolia. The greatest collection of Minoan art is in the museum at Heraklion, near Knossos on the north shore of Crete. Minoan art, with other remains of material culture, especially the sequence of ceramic styles, has been used by archaeologists to define the three phases of Minoan culture (EM, MM, LM) discussed above.
The reasons for the demise of the Minoan civilization continue to be debated. The rise of the Mycenaean civilization in the mid-2nd millennium BC on the Greek mainland and the evidence of their cultural influence on Minoan art and trade make them the most likely cause. The sophistication of the Minoan culture and its trading capacity is evidenced by the presence of writing-firstly hieroglyphic and then Linear A scripts (both, as yet, undeciphered), predominantly found on various types of administrative clay tablets.
The original meaning of the word remains unknown, but it seems that there is a strong connection with the mythic king of Crete, Minos, during the bronze-age Minoan civilization which flourished in Crete and in the Aegean islands (2000-1470 BC). 
The Minoans are what archaeologists have named the people who lived during the early part of the prehistoric Bronze Age of Greece. Bronze Age Greek civilizations are split by tradition into the Greek mainland (or Helladic culture), and the Greek islands (the Cycladic). 
The palace of Mallia, to the east of Knossos, is a little smaller but was an equally important administrative center. Palace of Knossos by Ancient Images. The Minoan Civilization is the culture that flourished on the island of Crete, in the Aegean Sea, during the III and II millennia BC. It is named after King Minos, who was recorded in Greek tradition as a prehistoric king of Crete. Minoan culture is divided into three periods: Early Minoan (2900–2000 B.C.), Middle Minoan (2000–1550 B.C.), and Late Minoan (1550–1200 B.C.).
Religion played an important role in Minoan Crete and many activities, and artistic products revolved around religious cult. As evidence in the art of the period, the Minoans deified the natural world and found in it a logical order that allowed man to live in harmony with the natural environment. Language. The first written scripts of the Minoans resemble egyptian hieroglyphs. The Phaistos Disk which is now exhibited in the Heraklion Archaeological Museum and dates back to 1700 BC, is an example of such script. Later the emergence of a syllable based script we call Linear A permeates the island.
The Minoans have an important place in world history, as building the first civilization to appear on European soil. Minoan civilization emerged around 2000 BC, and lasted until 1400 BC. It was located on the island of Crete, which is now a part of Greece. The Minoans were famous for the magnificent palaces they built, above all at Knossos.
The Minoans lived on the island of Crete. They were a very advanced people. They were ruled by a king, so they had a central government. They had a really strong navy, being an island culture. They had beautiful art and statues. They had running water for drinking and bathing. They even had toilets that flushed! 
The Minoans were a Bronze Age civilization that flourished on the Greek Aegean island of Crete from around 3000 to 1100 BCE. 