Full Definition of PRETEXT. : a purpose or motive alleged or an appearance assumed in order to cloak the real intention or state of affairs. See pretext defined for English-language learners. See pretext defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Definition of PRETEXTING. : the practice of presenting oneself as someone else in order to obtain private information. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pretext (Noun). A false, contrived or assumed purpose; a pretense. The reporter called the company on the pretext of trying to resolve a consumer complaint. 
pre•text. 1. something put forward to conceal a true purpose or object; ostensible reason; excuse. 2. the misleading appearance or behavior assumed with this intention; subterfuge. praetextum pretext, ornament, n. use of neuter past participle of praetexere to edge with, place in front, pretend. pretext. n. 1. a fictitious reason given in order to conceal the real one. 2. a specious excuse; pretence. [C16: from Latin praetextum disguise, from praetexere to weave in front, disguise; see texture]
PRETEXT. TheLaw.com Law Dictionary & Black's Law Dictionary 2nd Ed. The reasons assigned to justify an act, which have only the appearance of truth, and which are without foundation; or which if true are not the true reasons for such act. 1  Share on Facebook. 2  Share on Twitter. 
Pretext Law & Legal Definition. Pretext generally refers to a reason for an action which is false, and offered to cover up true motives or intentions. It is a concept sometimes brought up in the context of employment discrimination. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a pretext is an excuse or a cover up for the truth. An example of a pretext is a person saying that she is having a small family dinner at home while a group of people are waiting there to surprise her father for his birthday. 
a pretext to do sth → un pretexte prétexte pour faire. qch on the pretext of → sth pretextant. Prétextant qch he excused himself on the pretext of a → Stomach upset'il s, est excuse excusé pretextant'prétextant. un mal d estomac pretext. n. 1. a fictitious reason given in order to conceal the real one. 2. a specious excuse; pretence. [C16: from Latin praetextum disguise, from praetexere to weave in front, disguise; see texture].
Noun. 1. pretext-something serving to conceal plans; a fictitious reason that is concocted in order to conceal the real reason. stalking-horse. dissembling, feigning, pretense, pretence-pretending with intention to deceive. pretext. n. 1. a fictitious reason given in order to conceal the real one. 2. a specious excuse; pretence. [C16: from Latin praetextum disguise, from praetexere to weave in front, disguise; see texture]