You can take a whale watch cruise from several different towns along the Maine coast. In general it'll cost between $38 and $58 per adult, $28 to $38 for kids (each company defines kid a little differently but usually between 6-12 or 14), and little ones under 3 might be around $10 or free. Tips For Whale Watching In Maine. While no one can control whether or not the whales will will come out to play during your trip (many of the companies give vouchers for a free trip if no whales are sighted), there is much you can do to make your whale watching in Maine experience more enjoyable.
The best time for whale watching in Massachusetts is from April to October, although whales have been spotted in Bay State waters as early as mid-March and as late as early November. Whales migrate to Massachusetts to feed on mackerel, herring, krill and other schooling fish that breed in these nutrient-rich waters. Whales feed off the coasts of Boston, the North Shore area and Cape Cod and the Islands during certain times of the year. Whale watch charters throughout coastal Massachusetts give people the opportunity to see whales breaching and spouting.
From Bar Harbor all the way down the coast of Maine, whales can be seen cruising and frolicking throughout the summer. Mid-April brings the northern Humpbacks, Fin whales, the endangered North Atlantic Right Whale and Minke whales. Seals, dolphins, porpoises and puffins are also often seen around the whales. Whales migrate to the coast of Maine to feed in mid-spring, leaving in October for warmer waters. June, July and the beginning of August are the best times to spot them off the coast of Maine.
Monterey Bay. There are two seasons for whale watching in Monterey Bay, home of a world-famous aquarium. Visit from mid-December through mid-April to see gray whales, dolphins and killer whales migrating, or visit from mid-April through mid-December to see humpback whales, blue whales, dolphins and killer whales. Winter is the best time to view marine life in California, as impressive pods of gray whales take their own vacations down south for the chillier months.
Although an occasional whale can be spotted from shore, the best place to see whales in Maine is from a whale watching cruise boat. From southern Maine, to Downeast Maine, whale watching tours run regularly during Maine's best whale watching dates. Boat cruises from Kittery, Kennebunkport, Wells, Portland, Boothbay Harbor, Bar Harbor, Lubec, Eastport, Milbridge, and places in between... But regardless, you will likely find late spring and early fall to be a very relaxing time to see Maine whales, with less crowds and shorter lines! Although Maine best whale watching dates are when the weather in Maine is at its nicest, don't be fooled... ... April and May, as well as September and October, are very cool on the water (and inland also, for that matter). And although comparably warmer
In Maine the best whale watching dates are from mid-to-late April, to mid-to-late October. It is during these months... ...that the waters in the Gulf of Maine are at their warmest and provide an excellent feeding ground... But regardless, you will likely find late spring and early fall to be a very relaxing time to see Maine whales, with less crowds and shorter lines! Although Maine best whale watching dates are when the weather in Maine is at its nicest, don't be fooled... ... April and May, as well as September and October, are very cool on the water (and inland also, for that matter). And although comparably warmer
EXPERIENCE. Cap'n Fish's in the ORIGINAL Whale Watch in the Mid Coast Maine region, and have the most knowledge of whale feeding grounds, whale movement during different times of the season, and where to go for the BEST Whale Watch Experience In Maine. 
As soon as the cold weather settles in, however, whales travel to warmer waters to mate and give birth. The best time of day to view whales varies from day to day and year to year, which is why whale watching tours plan trips that last between three to four hours long. Whales feed off the coasts of Boston, the North Shore area and Cape Cod and the Islands during certain times of the year. Whale watch charters throughout coastal Massachusetts give people the opportunity to see whales breaching and spouting.
Serving as home to a population just north of 5,000, as well as the location of Acadia National Park, Bar Harbor is a popular tourist destination in Maine. Enjoy sightseeing tours, cruises, and other activities. Take a whale watching boat tour, ride on a trolley, visit historic landmarks, and much more. 