3. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites.
Several human diseases caused by protozoa are transmitted by a variety of arthropod vectors (Table). The vectors are not simply 'flying syringes', but represent a second host for the protozoan parasite. Parasites which reside within the blood or internal organs of the host have logistical problems in terms of infecting a new host. In contrast to fecal-oral transmission, where infective stages are excreted into the environment, potential new hosts would not normally come into contact with the parasite.
The leishmaniases are parasite diseases caused by Leishmania (unicellular parasites that infect the reticulohistiocytic system) transmitted by a species of sand fly (subfamily Phlebotominae). A distinction can be made, according to the type of parasite, between the cutaneous, mucocutaneous and visceral forms. Lyme disease. Lyme disease is an infection caused by a a species of bacteria of the Borrelia genus: Borrelia burgdorferi transmitted by the bite of a tick of the Ixodes genus. 10 to 15% of them carry the Borrelia bacteria. The risk of contamination by tick bite varies between 1 and 6% depending on the region.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC.
This disease is caused by a Protozoan parasite, a trypanosome, which is transmitted from one host to another by the tsetse-fly. In Southern Asia and in parts of Africa there is a very serious disease of horses known as surra which is caused by a similar parasite (Trypanosoma evansi). 
Another large group of vectors are flies. Sandfly species transmit the disease leishmaniasis, by acting as vectors for protozoan Leishmania species, and tsetse flies transmit protozoan trypansomes (Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and Trypansoma brucei rhodesiense) which cause African Trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness). Either via their bite, as in the case of malaria spread by mosquitoes, or via their faeces, as in the case of Chagas' Disease spread by Triatoma bugs or epidemic typhus spread by human body lice. Many invertebrates are responsible for transmitting diseases
Insects (mosquitoes, lice, fleas, bed bugs) and ticks are able to transmit a number of diseases caused by infectious agents: viruses (chikungunya virus, yellow fever, dengue fever, etc.), bacteria (Lyme disease, plague, etc.), parasites (malaria, sleeping sickness, leishmaniasis, filariasis, etc.). Lyme disease. Lyme disease is an infection caused by a a species of bacteria of the Borrelia genus: Borrelia burgdorferi transmitted by the bite of a tick of the Ixodes genus. 10 to 15% of them carry the Borrelia bacteria. The risk of contamination by tick bite varies between 1 and 6% depending on the region.