Read More. Median pay for Securitas Security Services Usa, Inc. workers sits around $11.10 per hour, and overtime compensation can push that up to $16.67. At $10.71, Louisville, Ky. is home to some of the lowest pay in the country. Across Securitas Security Services Usa, Inc.'s U.S. offices, employees in the state of Virginia earn the most, taking home about $12.15 per hour.
Securitas Salary. Securitas average salary is $59,355, median salary is $57,125 with a salary range from $50,000 to $80,000. Securitas salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Securitas salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Working at home can be a dream or a nightmare, depending on the job, your preferences, and the disposition of your colleagues. It's pretty easy to fin... Key Results of the 2015 Women In the Workplace Study. Women in the Workplace, a recent study conducted by LeanIn.org and McKinsey & Company – building off of similar work done by the latter in 2012 – exam... How to Influence Without Authority. 
Securitas Security Services USA salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors. Securitas Security Services USA salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Securitas Security Services USA salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
BSIS Guard Card Certifications have significantly higher pay than non-accredited workers at around $12.48 per hour. Securitas Security Services Usa, Inc. provides the highest financial reward to those with a GED or High School Diploma — these employees rake in $12.25 per hour. At $10.71, Louisville, Ky. is home to some of the lowest pay in the country. Across Securitas Security Services Usa, Inc.'s U.S. offices, employees in the state of Virginia earn the most, taking home about $12.1
Add to Watchlists. US Average Hourly Earnings is at a current level of 25.09, down from 25.10 last month. This represents a monthly annualized growth rate of -0.48%, compared to a long term average annualized growth rate of 2.36%. 1  Category: Hours and Wages. 2  Region: United States. 3  Report: Employment Situation. 4  Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
(around $11.86) are the next top-paying cities. At $10.71, Louisville, Ky. is home to some of the lowest pay in the country. Across Securitas Security Services Usa, Inc.'s U.S. offices, employees in the state of Virginia earn the most, taking home about $12.15 per hour.
Securitas Security Services USA Salary. Securitas Security Services USA average salary is $70,024, median salary is $74,598 with a salary range from $50,900 to $80,000. Securitas Security Services USA salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Securitas Security Services USA salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.