The geologic depression where the Salton Sea is located was caused over geologic time by mountain uplift and associated subsidence. As the mountains in the vicinity grew, subsidence of the Earth's mantle led to the depression, with its lowest point at -278 ft below mean sea level.
The Salton Sea is the largest lake in California. It is located in the southeastern corner of the state; it spans across Riverside and Imperial counties in one of California’s most scenic desert areas.
THE SALTON SEA: AN ASSESSMENT Victor M. Ponce June 2005 The Salton Sea is the largest lake in California, encompassing 378 square miles in Imperial and Riverside counties, in the Southeastern edge of the state. Strictly speaking, it is not a sea but a geological depression tucked between mountain ranges and lying below sea level.
Situated in the Sonoran Desert in southeastern California is the Salton Sea, the largest lake in the state. The Salton Basin has held various waters over the last three million years as the Colorado River changed its course and spilled over, filling up the basin with fresh water lakes that would eventually evaporate.
Victor M. Ponce June 2005. The Salton Sea is the largest lake in California, encompassing 378 square miles in Imperial and Riverside counties, in the Southeastern edge of the state. Strictly speaking, it is not a sea but a geological depression tucked between mountain ranges and lying below sea level.
The Salton Sea is a shallow, saline, endorheic rift lake located directly on the San Andreas Fault, predominantly in California's Imperial and Coachella valleys.
The Salton Sea is an inland saline lake in the Sonoran Desert of extreme southeastern California. It occupies the Salton Basin, a remnant of prehistoric Lake Cahuilla. It is borderded on the south by the rich agricultural areas of the Imperial Valley and on the west, by Anza-Borrego Desert State Park.
The Salton Sea is a shallow, saline lake located 226 feet below sea level, occupying the lowest elevations of the Salton Sink in the Colorado Desert of Imperial and Riverside counties in Southern California. With an average surface area of 1,360 square km, it is the largest lake i