PUBLISHED. Some female killer whales stop having calves by the time they hit their 40s, but they can live until they're 90 years old. Photograph by Hiroya Minakuchi, Minden Pictures/Corbis Like people, female killer whales undergo menopause, living long after their baby-bearing days are done. But why people, and whales, do so is very much up for debate. Now, a new study says the reason—at least in killer whales—may have to do with who holds information critical for the group's survival.
Male orca whales typically live to see 50 years of age, which is the same age females lose the ability to bear offspring. By a common theory in the animal kingdom, this would be a logical age for females to die as well. However, female orcas can live up to 40 years beyond menopause. One way post-reproductive females may boost the survival of their kin is through the transfer of ecological knowledge, Brent told Smithsonian.com.
Killer whales have been revealed to be one of only three species whose females are known to undergo menopause—living on long after their reproductive years in order to help their offspring, particularly their sons, survive the rigors of young adulthood and later to help raise their grandchildren. Looking at this we can see that female killer whales stop reproducing in their 30s or 40s, yet live into their 90s. This is a striking 50 to 60 years of their life in which they no longer give birth.
Long menopause allows killer whales to care for adult sons. Scientists have found the answer to why female killer whales have the longest menopause of any non-human species-to care for their adult sons. Led by the Universities of Exeter and York and published in the journal Science ..
Killer whale mothers live longer lives in order to protect their sons, a study has found. Females give birth in their thirties but can live for a further 50 years after having their offspring. 
Menopause is less famously found in some species of fish, bird, and primates as well as elephants, opossums, and lab mice. It is interesting to study menopause in killer whales and pilot whales because unlike primates they live a long time after they are no longer able to reproduce. So where apes generally do not live long after menopause, a killer whale can live 40 years after menopause and a pilot whale can live 30 years after menopause. Since their life spans are closer to humans, they are more interesting to study
Unlike many animals, female orca whales can live well beyond menopause and the new study shows they can serve an integral purpose after they can no longer reproduce. Like Us on Facebook. Menopause is one of nature's great mysteries, study lead author Lauren Brent, of the University of Exeter, said in a press release. However, female orcas can live up to 40 years beyond menopause. One way post-reproductive females may boost the survival of their kin is through the transfer of ecological knowledge, Brent told Smithsonian.com.
I think it's very safe to say that the jury is still out as to why some females-in populations of killer whales, humans, and other species—live long past [when] their reproductive life spans end, Ward adds. Follow Jane J. Lee on Twitter. Related Stories. 1  Seal Catches Ride on Whale. Like people, female killer whales undergo menopause, living long after their baby-bearing days are done. But why people, and whales, do so is very much up for debate.
Like human mothers, female killer whales can bear offspring well into their 30s, but then may live on for another 50 years or so to look after their families, pass on their knowledge and skills to the younger generation, and assume a leadership role in the community. Looking at this we can see that female killer whales stop reproducing in their 30s or 40s, yet live into their 90s. This is a striking 50 to 60 years of their life in which they no longer give birth.