1 Turpentine or mineral spirits are the primary agents to use when it comes to thinning oil-based paints. 2  Evaluate how much paint was placed in the container, and add the turpentine in a ratio of approximately 3 parts paint to 1 part thinner. Add the paint thinner to the paint. 1  Turpentine or mineral spirits are the primary agents to use when it comes to thinning oil-based paints. 2  Evaluate how much paint was placed in the container, and add the turpentine in a ratio of approximately 3 parts paint to 1 part thinner.
1 Like oil-based paints, you must first find a container where the water-based paint and thinner can be combined. 2  While water-based paints can be removed with slightly less difficulty than oil-based paints, this container should still be one that you will not miss in the event that it is ruined. Add the paint thinner to the paint. 1  Turpentine or mineral spirits are the primary agents to use when it comes to thinning oil-based paints. 2  Evaluate how much paint was placed in the container, and add the turpentine in a ratio of approximately 3 parts paint to 1 part thinner.
Lacquer Thinner is usually a mixture of solvents able to dissolve a number of different resins or plastics used in modern lacquer. Previously, lacquer thinners frequently contained alkyl esters like butyl or amyl acetate, ketones like acetone or methyl ethyl ketone, aromatic hydrocarbons like toluene, ethers such as glycol cellosolves, and/or alcohols.
Of all thinners, lacquer thinner is the most versatile and also the most complex. Other thinners, such as mineral spirits (paint thinner), naphtha, acetone, and methanol, are simply the single solvent, so their characteristics dont vary. Lacquer thinner is a combination of solvents chosen by manufacturers from different solvent families to give each thinner specific characteristics. No matter which type of lacquer thinner or blend of thinners you use, continue with the same ratio of thinner to lacquer. The amount of thinner required for optimum atomization is not affected by the speed the thinner evaporates from the applied film.
That s why it s a good idea to thin the stain with lacquer thinner or one of the ketones before mixing it with the lacquer-it makes it compatible by lowering the percentage of petroleum distillates. Good brands of lacquer thinner that are made for coatings are interchangeable. I buy a good quality, no-brand name lacquer thinner in 55 gallon drums and the price is very good compared to buying it in smaller quantities. 
But they both smell very different and the white spirit also feels oily but the enamel thinner has a spirit feel to it, (it feels cold to touch) so what is the extra ingredient in enamel thinners to give it such a different smell and feel, or is it white spirit that has the extra ingredients. Thats what I thought untill I had them side by sideThey smell differentThey also feel differentWhite spirit has an Oily feel to it but enamel thinners has a dry spirit feel to it.Mind you it may just be the The Enamel thinners is made to smell and feel different to white spirit just to justify the higher chargePaul.
A paint thinner is a solvent used to thin oil-based paints or clean up after their use. Commercially, solvents labeled Paint Thinner are usually mineral spirits having a flash point at about 40 °C (104 °F), the same as some popular brands of charcoal starter. TLV is defined as the maximum concentration in air which can be breathed by a normal person (i.e., excluding children, pregnant women, etc.) in the course of 40 hours work (in US work conditions) per week, day after day through their work life without long-term ill effects.
Font Size. A. A. A. Warfarin, which goes by the brand name Coumadin, is an anticoagulant medication. This means that it helps prevent clots from forming in the blood. Blood thinners are used to treat some types of heart disease. You have been prescribed warfarin because your body may be making blood clots or you may have a medical condition known to promote unwanted blood clots. 