Feedback loops are used extensively to regulate secretion of hormones in the hypothalamic-pituitary axis. An important example of a negative feedback loop is seen in control of thyroid hormone secretion. 1 Rate of production: Synthesis and secretion of hormones are the most highly regulated aspect of endocrine control. 2  Such control is mediated by positive and negative feedback circuits, as described below in more detail.
Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue. The Posterior Lobe of the Pituitary Gland (or neurophpophysis) stores and releases hormones secreted by the hypothalamus section of the brain including: 1  ADH (Antidiuretic hormone) stimulates the smooth muscles, blood vessels and the intestine.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Most hormone secretions are regulated by negative feedbacks. The 3 main feed backs are: 1)(Blood level of certain chemicals controls hormone secretion) Blood composition; Ex: blood glucose levels control the insulin secretion. 2)(Hormones controlled by nervous system) Neural control; Ex: Epinephrine is release from adrenal medulla as result of nervous system stimulation. 3)(Hormone secretion controlled by other hormones) Hormonal control; Ex: hormones from pituitary gland act on the ovaries and testes causing release of sex hormones. Source: Seeley's Essentials of Anatomy and Physiology (seventh edition)
A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour. The rate of hormone biosynthesis and secretion is often regulated by a homeostatic negative feedback control mechanism. Such a mechanism depends on factors that influence the metabolism and excretion of hormones. Thus, higher hormone concentration alone cannot trigger the negative feedback mechanism
Negative Feedback. One distinctive feature of hormones whose secretion is regulated through the hypothalamus and pituitary is that they regulate their own secretion through negative feedback inhibition. 
Hormonal Regulation of Hormone Release. Hormonal regulation of hormone release involves a hormone binding to its receptor on an endocrine cell to regulate hormonal secretion. A hormone that stimulates hormone secretion is called a tropic hormone. Tropic hormones may also stimulate proliferation of endocrine cells. Regulation of Polar Hormone Secretion. For polar hormones, tropic hormones stimulate endocrine secretion by stimulating cell secretion; that is, exocytosis. An example is the regulation of growth hormone (GH) secretion by the tropic hormone growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) . GHRH is a hypophysiotropic hormone
Functions of the Endocrine System. The Endocrine system (along with the nervous system) controls and regulates the complex activities of the body. The Endocrine system regulates the activities of the body by secreting complex chemical substances (hormones) into the blood stream. These secretions come from a variety of glands which control various organs of the body. The key functions are: 1  To regulate the metabolic functions of the body. The Posterior Lobe of the Pituitary Gland (or neurophpophysis) stores and releases hormones secreted by the hypothalamus section of the brain including: 1  ADH (Antidiuretic hormone) stimulates the smooth muscles, blood vessels and the intestine.