A dashed line is used to represent an intermolecular attraction between molecules because these forces are NOT as strong as chemical bonds. = I = Cl One arrangement of ICl molecules that gives rise to a dipole-dipole attraction. Another arrangement of ICl molecules that gives rise to a dipole-dipole attraction. They are much weaker than ionic or covalent bonds and have a significant effect only when the molecules involved are close together (touching or almost touching). The figures show two arrangements of polar iodine monochloride (ICl) molecules that give rise to dipole-dipole attractions. Note: 1  Polar molecules have a partial negative end and a partial positive end. 2  The partially positive end of a polar molecule is attracted to the partially negative end of another
The bonds in these molecules are said to be polar, because they have positive and negative ends, or poles, and the molecules are often said to have a dipole moment. HCl molecules, for example, have a dipole moment because the hydrogen atom has a slight positive charge and the chlorine atom has a slight negative charge. Because of the force of attraction between oppositely charged particles, there is a small dipole-dipole force of attraction between adjacent HCl molecules. 
Dipole-Dipole Forces. Dipole-dipole forces are attractive forces between the positive end of one polar molecule and the negative end of another polar molecule. They are much weaker than ionic or covalent bonds and have a significant effect only when the molecules involved are close together (touching or almost touching). The figures show two arrangements of polar iodine monochloride (ICl) molecules that give rise to dipole-dipole attractions. Note: 1  Polar molecules have a partial negative end and a partial positive end. 2  The partially positive end of a polar molecule is attracted to the partially negative end of another
Dispersion forces are the only type of intermolecular forces experienced by nonpolar molecules. Dipole-dipole forces exist between polar molecules. Polar molecules have a permanent dipole, so the charges (notated as + (partial positive) and below for an example. In polar compounds, the positive end of one molecule is attracted to the negative end of another molecule. Because polar molecules have a permanent dipole, rather than a temporary dipole, the dipole-dipole forces they experience are generally stronger than London forces. However, the H-Cl covalent bond within the molecule is still far stronger than the dipole-dipole intermolecular forces between
In the liquid phases, all molecules interact with one another. The stronger the interaction between a molecule and a pure liquid, the greater will be the solubility of the molecule in the liquid. All molecules interact with each other through London dispersion forces, or induced dipole interactions. In the figure below, a 2-atom molecule collides with a 3-atom molecule. When a molecule with a permanent dipole, such as HCN, collides with a molecule without a molecular dipole, the collision itself causes a dipole to appear by changes in electron density within the molecule. The nitrogen atom in HCN is electron rich and the molecular dipole points in the direction of this atom
Ion-dipole and ion-induced dipole forces are similar to dipole-dipole and induced-dipole interactions but involve ions, instead of only polar and non-polar molecules. Ion-dipole and ion-induced dipole forces are stronger than dipole-dipole interactions because the charge of any ion is much greater than the charge of a dipole moment. Ion-dipole bonding is stronger than hydrogen bonding. An ion-dipole force consists of an ion and a polar molecule interacting
Similar to ion-dipole forces these forces exist between ions and non-polar molecules. The ion induces a dipole in the non-polar molecule leading to a weak, short lived force which holds the compounds together. These forces are found in haemoglobin (the molecule that carries oxygen around your body). As the name suggests, this type of intermolecular force exists between an ion and a dipole (polar) molecule. You will remember that an ion is a charged atom, and this will be attracted to one of the charged ends of the polar molecule.