Common side effects of AndroGel include nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, hair loss, increased hair growth, trouble sleeping, changes in sexual desire, redness/swelling/itching/burning/hardening of the skin where the patch is worn, change in skin color, breast swelling or tenderness, depression, or acne. Women exposed to this medication may have side effects due to testosterone gel. Tell both of your doctors immediately if you notice symptoms in a woman such as changes in body hair or a large increase in acne. Avoid contact with this medication if you are pregnant or breast-feeding.
Testosterone creams can cause side effects in others who come into contact with it on your skin or clothing. Women may have unwanted hair growth or acne. It’s particularly dangerous for pregnant women, as testosterone can cause birth defects. Children may develop aggressive behavior, enlarged genitals, and pubic hair. The most common side effects of topical testosterone cream are related to the urinary tract. Some men develop the need to urinate a lot more than usual, including during the night. You may feel an urgent need to urinate, even when your bladder isn’t full
Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  swelling, rapid weight gain; 2  increased or ongoing erection of the penis; 3  bone pain, increased thirst, memory problems, restless feeling, confusion, nausea, loss of appetite, increased urination, weakness, muscle twitching; or. Less serious side effects may include: 1  breast swelling in men; 2  headache, anxiety, depressed mood; 3  numbness or tingly feeling; or. 4  pain or swelling where the medicine was injected
Testosterone supplements are products that increase the male sex hormone testosterone, which governs muscle mass, aggression and secondary sexual characteristics in men. Prohormones, testosterone boosters and estrogen blockers are all different types of testosterone supplements. Supplementing with prohormones, or the illegal form known as anabolic steroids, can cause many serious side effects. Prohormones are chemicals that convert to testosterone or testosterone-like analogues in the body.
Common side effects of Depo-Testosterone include nausea, vomiting, headache, anxiety, depression, skin color changes, increased/decreased sexual interest, oily skin, hair loss, breast swelling in men, numbness or tingly feeling, and acne. Pain, swelling, and redness at the injection site may also occur. Less serious side effects may include: 1  breast swelling in men; 2  headache, anxiety, depressed mood; 3  numbness or tingly feeling; or. 4  pain or swelling where the medicine was injected
Some of the other more common side effects of testosterone patches are headache, depression, rash, changes in libido, acne, male pattern baldness, and increased cholesterol levels. This is not a complete list of the side effects associated with testosterone patches. The most common side effects associated with testosterone buccal patches, which are applied under the gums, include: 1  Unpleasant or bitter taste in the mouth. 2  Difficulty tasting food. 3  Stinging or swelling of the lips. 4  Gum pain, tenderness, swelling, and irritation
Other Side Effects of Testosterone Replacement Therapy. Certain side effects of testosterone replacement therapy are preparation specific. Gels, creams, and other topical agents can cause skin irritation and secondary exposure to women and children who come into contact with the medication via direct transfer. Some side effects seen with TRT are the direct result of the use of exogenous testosterone (testosterone not made naturally in the body). Pharmaceutical grade testosterone is bio-identical, that is, it is constructed, recognized, and utilized in the same manner as the hormone produced by your body.