A shareholders' agreement (sometimes referred to in the U.S. as a stockholders' agreement), SHA in short is an agreement amongst the shareholders of a company. In most countries, registration of a shareholders' agreement is not required for it to be effective. Indeed, it is the perceived greater flexibility of contract law over corporate law that provides much of the raison d'etre être for' shareholders. agreements
A Shareholder Agreement, also known as a Stockholder Agreement, is a contract between the shareholders of a corporation. The contents in a Shareholder Agreement depends on the corporation and the shareholders, but it usually addresses: 1  Shareholder rights and responsibilities. 2  Share ownership and valuation. 3  Management of finances, business, assets, capital, and shares. 4  Rules for issuing new shares and restrictions on share transfers.
A shareholders’ agreement is exactly what the name suggests; an agreement between the shareholders of a company. The articles of association of a company also govern the relationship between the shareholders, but a properly drafted shareholders’ agreement can have many benefits over the articles of association. It is generally recommended that, unless you are the sole shareholder of a company, you always consider entering into an appropriate shareholders’ agreement and, potentially, a set of articles tailored to the provisions of the shareholders’ agreement.
1 as between the company and its shareholders, a breach of the shareholders' agreement which does not breach the constitutional documents will still be a valid corporate act, but it may sound in damages against the party who breaches the agreement. In most countries, registration of a shareholders' agreement is not required for it to be effective. Indeed, it is the perceived greater flexibility of contract law over corporate law that provides much of the raison d'etre être for' shareholders. agreements
Definition. Contract between the owners (shareholders) of a firm, defining their mutual obligations, privileges, protections, and rights, and usually comprising the firm's articles of association or bylaws. 
Its purpose is to protect the shareholders’ investment in the company, to establish a fair relationship between the shareholders and govern how the company is run. The agreement will: 1  set out the shareholders’ rights and obligations; 2  regulate the sale of shares in the company; 3  describe how the company is going to be run; 4  provide an element of protection for minority shareholders and the company; and. 5  define how important decisions are to be made. Written by Philip Newman. Published in Shares and shareholders on. 2 comments | Tags: shareholders, shareholders agreement, shares. When setting up a company with family or friends it is easy to assume that nothing can go wrong in the future.
1 a company's constitutional documents are normally available for public inspection, whereas the terms of a shareholders' agreement, as a private law contract, are normally confidential between the parties. 2  contractual arrangements are generally cheaper and less formal to form, administer, revise or terminate. In most countries, registration of a shareholders' agreement is not required for it to be effective. Indeed, it is the perceived greater flexibility of contract law over corporate law that provides much of the raison d'etre être for' shareholders. agreements
DEFINITION of 'Shareholders' Agreement'. An arrangement among a company's shareholders describing how the company should be operated and the shareholders' rights and obligations. It also includes information on the regulation of the shareholders' relationship, the management of the company, ownership of shares and privileges and protection of shareholders. BREAKING DOWN 'Shareholders' Agreement'. The shareholders' agreement is intended to make sure that shareholders are treated fairly and that their rights are protected. The agreement includes sections outlining the fair and legitimate pricing of shares (particularly when sold)
Bylaws and shareholder agreements are two very different things. A corporation's bylaws set out the day-to-day operations of the organization; they also include extensive rules pertaining to committees and the board of directors, among other things. Shareholder agreements are contracts between shareholders -- usually founding members of a business entity. These agreements explain the rights and responsibilities of the shareholders regarding equity share and transfer. For example, a shareholder agreement may include a right of first refusal provision.