When planning to cut an opening in a wall, whether masonry or wood, establish whether it is loadbearing or non-loadbearing. For advice on this, and on supporting the upper levels of a wall or structure while cutting openings, see the information below. If you need to cut into an exterior cavity wall for a new window or a doorway, use a cavity wall header. This will provide support while retaining the cavity wall's damp-proofing function.
In a brick veneer house like this one, there will be a space between the brick and the wood framing. To fill that gap, I’ll first caulk around the window flange, and then install a piece of 2 X 4, which I’ve cut to fit. (POUNDING NOISE) Then we fill the remaining gap with aerosol urethane foam insulation. RON HAZELTON: To get the exact measurement of the window’s rough opening, I’ll need to remove the window trim. A wide putty knife between the wall and the pry bar keeps the wall from being damaged.
With a brick house, the windows are installed into a wooden framework, or buck, that has been fastened to the window opening in the brick. Changing the windows in a brick home involves first removing the older window from the buck. Removing the Old Window. Cut away any caulking on the window trim using a utility knife. Then pry the trim from the window with a pry bar. Remove all the trim from around the window to reveal the nail fin and fasteners. Remove any caulk from around the edges of the window frame. Use your utility knife to cut this material away
Installing a window in a brick facade façade wall is a special consideration during original, construction when the wall framing is being built and before the brick facing is. Added it is an even bigger challenge during, remodeling when the exterior is faced with brick and the interior has drywall or other. covering Set bricks on both sides up to the horizontal lintel at the top. Set the window in the rough frame and secure it to the wood framing with long screws through the edges into the studs. Use a level and tapered wood shims to get it square and plumb. Remove temporary braces once the window is installed and secured.
Intro. When framing for a window in a new location, it is usually easiest to cut an opening in the interior drywall that is quite a bit larger than the window opening. This will require you to patch the walls afterward, but installing framing -- especially the header -- inside a wall is difficult. However if you will be replacing the siding anyway, you can cut a large opening in the exterior at the same time you cut the interior opening. If the window has brick molding or a flange, you will need to cut back the siding to accommodate it. If you have a brick wall, hire a professional mason to cut an opening.
This video shows a custom window cut out and install for a brick home. The entire project was done by Phoenix Home Services, a contractor in Fairfax County of Northern Virginia, including the brick cutting, drywall, painting, window install, and masonry install. To see more projects that Phoenix has done, visit http://virginiasidingandwindows.com/ .
Otherwise, if the buck appears to be in good condition you can go ahead and install the new window within it. Seal any gaps between the buck and the brick wall measuring larger than 1/16 of an inch with masonry sealant. Use a brush to apply liquid flashing around the edges of the buck and the brick window opening. Removing the Old Window. Cut away any caulking on the window trim using a utility knife. Then pry the trim from the window with a pry bar. Remove all the trim from around the window to reveal the nail fin and fasteners. Remove any caulk from around the edges of the window frame. Use your utility knife to cut this material away
Installing Window in a Brick Wall. I've got a 8' section of load bearing wall that separates the kitchen from a nice view -- so I'd like to install a 48 wide window. There isn't any plumbing or electricity in the 48 span of wall I'd like to use. The inside of the wall is sheetrock and studs' the outside of the wall is brick. 
Set this level and secure it with nails through the studs. Install 2-by-4-inch studs cut with a circular saw to fit between the bottom of the header and top of the sill. Nail these to the side studs and toenail them to the header and sill. Put identical markings on the outside of the brick wall. Chip out the mortar in the horizontal joint at the top of the opening with a cold chisel, the width of the rough frame plus 6 inches on either side. Slide a steel lintel into place where the mortar was removed to hold the upper bricks while the wall is opened. Set bricks on both sides up to the horizontal lintel at the top. Set the window in the rough frame and secure it to the wood framing with long screws through the edges into the studs. Use a level and tapered wood shims to get it square and plumb. Remove temporary braces once the window is installed and secured.