A ligament, located between the cannon bone and the splint bones, is quite elastic in young horses. As the horse ages, the ligament ossifies; that is, the ligament is replaced by bone and the three bones fuse... An injury to the interosseous ligament or the periosteum (The periosteum is the soft tissue covering bone) of the splint bones can cause splints. You hear the term splints in the horse's leg often.
A splint is an inflammatory condition. It usually develops on the splint bones or splints. Young horses between the ages of 2 to 3 years old are most prone to splints. However, they can occur in horses 4 years and up. An injury to the interosseous ligament or the periosteum (The periosteum is the soft tissue covering bone) of the splint bones can cause splints. You hear the term splints in the horse's leg often.
Splints in Horses Wayne LochDepartment of Animal Sciences Most people who own or breed horses are familiar with the cannon bone of the horse limb. On each side of the cannon bone is a small bone known as the splint bone. Splints usually occur in horses 2 to 5 years old. Most often it is the forelimbs that are affected. Splints rarely occur in the hind legs. In older horses, the splint bones are fused solidly to the cannon bone. The majority of splint problems occur on the medial side (inside) of the forelimbs.
On each side of the cannon bone is a small bone known as the splint bone. The small splint bones are thin and taper to become a small knob about two-thirds of the way down the cannon bone (Figure 1). A ligament, located between the cannon bone and the splint bones, is quite elastic in young horses. As the horse ages, the ligament ossifies; that is, the ligament is replaced by bone and the three bones fuse (Figure 2). Splints usually occur in horses 2 to 5 years old. Most often it is the forelimbs which are affected. Splints rarely occur in the hindlimbs. In older horses, the splint bones are fused solidly to the cannon bone. The majority of splint problems occur on the medial side (inside) of the forelimbs. The medial splint bone usually is the one affected because it has a flat surface next to the knee
For uses of the word splint, see Splint (disambiguation) . Splints is an ailment of the horse or pony, characterized by a hard, bony swelling, usually on the inside of a front leg, lying between the splint and cannon bone or on the splint bone itself. Overworking young or unfit horses at speed or in tight circles may cause splints. The uneven loading of the limb in tight circles places excessive force on the medial splint, which can cause it to move excessively relative to the cannon bone, causing tears in the interosseous ligament and periosteal reaction.
Splint bones are located on each side of the cannon bone. Between the splint bones and the cannon bone is the interosseous ligament, which is made of a dense connective tissue that ossifies into bone as the horse grows into adulthood. The ossified ligament fuses together with the cannon bone and splint bones; bony fusion is usually complete in most horses by 3-4 years of age. Splints are caused by injury to the interosseous ligament or to the periosteum of the splint bones or adjacent bones. 
Cause of Splints. The ligament (interosseous ligament), tying the splint bones to the cannon bone, is quite elastic in young horses; however, as the horse ages, the ligament ossifies and is replaced by bone and the three bones fuse (Figure 2). Figure 2. 
Figure 2. Splints usually occur in horses 2 to 5 years old. Most often it is the forelimbs which are affected. Splints rarely occur in the hindlimbs. In older horses, the splint bones are fused solidly to the cannon bone. The majority of splint problems occur on the medial side (inside) of the forelimbs. The medial splint bone usually is the one affected because it has a flat surface next to the knee
Splint bones are located on either side of the cannon bone. The interosseus ligament is located between the splint bones and the cannon bone. An injury to the interosseous ligament or the periosteum (The periosteum is the soft tissue covering bone) of the splint bones can cause splints. You hear the term splints in the horse's leg often. So, just what does that mean? The horse's splint bone is actually what is left of what was once one of his toes. The bone is still there, it just no longer reaches the ground