Origin of the name Ryder: Transferred use of the English surname derived from the Old English rīdere (rider, knight, mounted warrior). Var: Rider. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Ryder: | Edit. My sons name is Ryder, and we mostly just call him by his name (no nicknames). It's such a cute and unique name that we love to use it often.
[ 2 syll. ry-der, ryd-er ] The baby boy name Ryder is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. Its pronunciation is R IY D-er †. Ryder is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Old English origins. It is from the element 'ridere' meaning rider. The first name is derived from the surname, which is itself from the job title for someone who carries out his duties while riding a horse, such as a messenger. Ridder, Rider (English), Ry, Rydder, Rydell, and Ryden are variants of Ryder. Ryder is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.188% of baby boys were given the name Ryder. Its ranking then was #100
Etymology & Historical Origin-Ryder. The name Ryder is a transferred use of a surname with Anglo-Saxon origins and comes from an occupational name. The Olde English word “ridere” means ‘to ride’ and signified a horse-mounted warrior or messenger, a term used in pre-7th century England. Popularity of the Name Ryder. While Ryder has English origins as a surname, we consider the forename very American. Ryder was not adopted as a male given name until 1994 and really just languished on the charts for about 10 years. It’s not until 2002 through 2005 that the name starts to show real promise
Baby names meanings search results: The name Ryder is a baby boy name. The name Ryder comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Ryder is: Knight. 
Ryder /ry-der/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced RYE-der. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Ryder is  horseman, rider. Rydell is a contemporary variant. Kreatif forms: Ryderro, Ryderru, Ryger. Ryder is a rare first name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#2370 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Ryder for boys. Ryder entered the list in 1994 and reached its apex rank of #95 in the U.S. in the year 2014
Meaning of name Ryder. Etymology: From an English occupational surname derived from Old English ridere meaning mounted warrior or messenger. Saint : Origin: English (Modern). It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic...
(2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of the boy name Rider and related names. Ryder (#95 last year) is the only popular related form of Rider (not ranked) . Adoption of this boy name was at its most widespread in 2014 (usage of 0.905%). Ryder (#95) is the most fashionable birth name here. 
The name Ryder is a transferred use of a surname with Anglo-Saxon origins and comes from an occupational name. The Olde English word “ridere” means ‘to ride’ and signified a horse-mounted warrior or messenger, a term used in pre-7th century England. 