What is an average DAT score? The DAT, or Dental Admissions Test, is a 90 minute test with 100 questions that determines your aptitude and the likelihood that you will succeed in dental school. As with any academic test, the concept of an ‘average score’ is a misnomer. Rather than worrying about a national average, you should look into the schools you’re applying to and find out what their averages are and try to beat that.
Scores on the DAT range from 1 to 30, 30 being the highest. Nationwide, the average DAT score for incoming dental students is about 17. The average DAT score for students who are accepted in programs is just above 19. As with any academic test, the concept of an ‘average score’ is a misnomer. Rather than worrying about a national average, you should look into the schools you’re applying to and find out what their averages are and try to beat that.
Your main aim is to achieve the scores that will put you on a competitive footing among all the other applicants. The average DAT (AA) score for students accepted to dental school in 2012 was 19.9 and the average GPA was 3.55. The raw score is then converted to a scaled score ranging from 1 (lowest) to 30 (highest). A test section that is skipped will be scored 1. This is neither a percentage nor a percentile. The test is not based on a curve. Essentially, DAT performance is measured using an ability-referenced system.
The average DAT score for applying students is about 17. The average DAT score for accepted students is slightly above 19. However, average DAT scores for individual schools range 16 to 24. A break down showing the statistics of how people scored on each section of the DAT, including DAT scores by percent, can be viewed here. The stats for dental schools vary greatly with average GPAs ranging from about 3.1 up to nearly 3.8 while the DAT scores range from 16 to 24. The average GPA and DAT statistics change year by year and have been steadily increasing over the last decade.
average dat scores for the schools and gpas. It depends on your gpa, if you have a decent gpa, you won't need as good of a dat score as someone with a bad gpa. Average dat of people taking dat is 17. average acceptance dat is about a 19 I would say. Anything 20 or above is good
DAT Scoring. The DAT is scored on a 1 to 30 scale. For each section of the test, the actual number of multiple-choice questions you answer correctly per section is your raw score. All multiple-choice questions are worth the same amount—one raw point—and there’s no penalty for incorrect answers. In addition to scaled scores for individual sections, schools are also provided a composite score, which is a scaled score that factors in your performance on all the sections.
How the DAT is Scored. DAT scores are reported by the ADA (American Dental Association) as eight standard scores.The first six scores are from the individual tests themselves, i.e. biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, perceptual ability, reading comprehension, and quantitative reasoning. The raw score is then converted to a scaled score ranging from 1 (lowest) to 30 (highest). A test section that is skipped will be scored 1. This is neither a percentage nor a percentile. The test is not based on a curve. Essentially, DAT performance is measured using an ability-referenced system.
While seven years ago the average dental school had entrance statistics of about a 3.2 or 3.3 and a 17 DAT score, the average has now climbed to a 3.5 GPA with a DAT Academic Average (AA) of slightly above 19. The below chart shows the average statistics for dental students who entered dental school in 2006. The stats for dental schools vary greatly with average GPAs ranging from about 3.1 up to nearly 3.8 while the DAT scores range from 16 to 24. The average GPA and DAT statistics change year by year and have been steadily increasing over the last decade.
The scores from each section can range from 200 to 800, so the best possible total score is 2400. The average score for each section is roughly 500, so the average total score is about 1500. For the 1.66 million test-takers in 2013, the mean scores were 496 critical reading, 514 math, and 488 writing. 
Just ten years ago, the average dental school had entrance statistics of about a 3.2 or 3.3 with a 17 DAT score, the averages have now climbed to a 3.5 GPA with a DAT average of slightly above 19. The following are average GPA and DAT scores for some of the more popular dentistry programs. As with any academic test, the concept of an ‘average score’ is a misnomer. Rather than worrying about a national average, you should look into the schools you’re applying to and find out what their averages are and try to beat that.