The winds are in the reverse direction of flow from the non-monsoon season, and can generate copious precipitation as well as changes in the surface currents in the sea.    While farming depends upon monsoons for rainfall, disastrous flooding can often occur during monsoons. Monsoons are seasonal, lasting months, not days.  Monsoons bring heavy winds and rainfall.  India gets about 80 percent of its annual rainfall from monsoons. 39 people found this useful.
The monsoon is caused by a change in wind direction. As the land over the southwest heats up the warm, moist air from the Gulf of California and Gulf of Mexico blows in. The monsoon is associated with an subtropical high over the interior western and this helps draws in the monsoon moisture. I live in central Arizona and we get monsoon every summer. Monsoon doesn't so much affect climate as it does weather. There is a difference between weather and climate. Climate is the general atmospheric conditions of a region.
Monsoons are seasonal winds that bring moist air from oceans and seas over land. The winds are in the reverse direction of flow from the non-monsoon season, and can generate c … opious precipitation as well as changes in the surface currents in the sea. While farming depends upon monsoons for rainfall, disastrous flooding can often occur during monsoons. Monsoons are seasonal, lasting months, not days.  Monsoons bring heavy winds and rainfall.  India gets about 80 percent of its annual rainfall from monsoons. 39 people found this useful.
General monsoon circulation. Monsoons, like most other winds, occur in response to the Sun heating the atmosphere. In their simplest form, monsoons are caused by differences in temperatures between the oceans and continents. They are most likely to form where a large continental landmass meets a major ocean basin. Monsoons are often associated with rainy seasons in the tropics (the areas of Earth within 23.5 degrees latitude of the equator) and the subtropics (areas between 23.5 and about 35 degrees latitude, both north and south). In these areas, life is critically dependent on the monsoon rains.
The term was first used in English in British India (now India, Bangladesh and Pakistan) and neighbouring countries to refer to the big seasonal winds blowing from the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea in the southwest bringing heavy rainfall to the area. The south-west monsoon winds are called 'Nairutya Maarut' in India. The eastern areas of the Western Ghats do not receive much rain from this monsoon as the wind does not cross the Western Ghats. The Bay of Bengal Branch of Southwest Monsoon flows over the Bay of Bengal heading towards North-East India and Bengal, picking up more moisture from the Bay of Bengal.
Monsoons occur due to difference in temperatures in the sea and that of the land. The air on the land is heated by the sun light. The heat in the air present on the waters of seas and oceans will be absorbed by the water and hence the air on the sea will be cool comparatively. This monsoon will originate from the rotation of the earth with respect to the Sun. The winds of the monsoon are annual and the duration of the monsoons, the rain intensity and the time at which it attacks cannot be predicted.
Probably the most famous are the Asian monsoons, which affect India, China, Japan, and Southeast Asia. Monsoons also impact portions of central Africa, where their rain is critical to supporting life in the area south of the Sahara Desert. Monsoons are often associated with rainy seasons in the tropics (the areas of Earth within 23.5 degrees latitude of the equator) and the subtropics (areas between 23.5 and about 35 degrees latitude, both north and south). In these areas, life is critically dependent on the monsoon rains.
This wind shift typically brings about a marked change in local weather. Monsoons are often associated with rainy seasons in the tropics (the areas of Earth within 23.5 degrees latitude of the equator) and the subtropics (areas between 23.5 and about 35 degrees latitude, both north and south). In these areas, life is critically dependent on the monsoon rains.
Monsoon is a yearly phenomenon in the weather. This monsoon will originate from the rotation of the earth with respect to the Sun. The winds of the monsoon are annual and the duration of the monsoons, the rain intensity and the time at which it attacks cannot be predicted. Hence, the prediction of the storm is also not possible
Arizona and New Mexico receive up to half of their annual precipitation during the monsoon season. The monsoon’s wild winds and driving rains are most dramatic in Tucson and in western New Mexico, tapering off in Phoenix and Yuma (Figure 1). 