com·pound. Noun. Chemistry A substance made up of two or more elements joined by chemical bonds into a molecule. The elements are combined in a definite ratio. Water, for example, is a compound having two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom in each molecule. 
Compound Nouns. A compound noun is a noun that is made with two or more words. A compound noun is usually [noun + noun] or [adjective + noun], but there are other combinations (see below). It is important to understand and recognize compound nouns. Each compound noun acts as a single unit and can be modified by adjectives and other nouns.
1 1 a thing consisting of two or more separate things combined together. 2  2 (chemistry) a substance formed by a chemical reaction of two or more elements in fixed amounts relative to each other Common salt is a compound of sodium and chlorine. BrE BrE//ˈkɒmpaʊnd// ; NAmE NAmE//ˈkɑːmpaʊnd//. Add to my wordlist. 1  1 a thing consisting of two or more separate things combined together. 2  2 (chemistry) a substance formed by a chemical reaction of two or more elements in fixed amounts relative to each other Common salt is a compound of sodium and chlorine.
GRAMMAR (also compound noun/verb/adjective) › a noun, verb, or adjective that is made by two or more words used together. 
/ˈkɑːmˌpaund/. noun. plural compounds. Learner's definition of COMPOUND. [count]. 1. : something that is formed by combining two or more parts. especially technical: a substance created when the atoms of two or more chemical elements join together. chemical/organic compounds. a compound of sodium and chlorine. Learner's definition of COMPOUND. 1. : made up of two or more parts. a compound leaf. a compound microscope. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. 2. a: made by combining two or more words. “Steamboat” is a compound noun.
By Richard Nordquist. Definition. Two or more nouns combined to form a single noun. Compound nouns are written as separate words (grapefruit juice), as words linked by a hyphen (sister-in-law), or as one word (schoolteacher). A compounded noun whose form no longer clearly reveals its origin (such as bonfire or marshall) is sometimes called an amalgamated compound. 1 The Head of a Compound Noun.  2 An interesting property of most compounds is that they are headed. 3  This means that one of the words that make up the compound is syntactically dominant. 4  In English the head is normally the item on the right hand of the compound.
compound noun [C] (COMBINATION). › a ​mixture of two or more different ​parts or ​elements: His ​jokes have been ​described as a compound of ​fears, anxieties, and insecurities. › chemistry A compound is a ​chemical ​substance that ​combines two or more ​elements. The most common way is to put two nouns together (noun + noun); other common types are adjective + noun and verb + noun. …. Compound verbsCompound verbs are two words which combine to make one meaning. The first word is usually a noun, an adjective or a preposition, and the second word is a verb.
1 Made up or consisting of several parts or elements: a compound noun. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The new company about to be born will have a compound name. 2  When you have two different elements, there are usually only two words in the compound name. 1 A thing that is composed of two or more separate elements; a mixture: the air smelled like a compound of diesel and petrol fumes. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Now the sophistication of the device has authorities pretty rattled, especially as a unique mixture of explosive compounds was involved.