Noun. 1. peptone-any of various water-soluble compounds that form by hydrolysis in the digestion of proteins to amino acids. organic compound-any compound of carbon and another element or a radical. 
Definition of PEPTONE. : any of various water-soluble products of partial hydrolysis of proteins. See peptone defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Peptone Special is an ingredient of media where a wide range of fastidious organisms are to be cultured. It is an enzymatic digest of animal tissues, carefully processed to ensure consistent growth characteristics when used in differential media. 
Best Answer: Peptone is used in media as food for bacteria. It is obtained through partial hydrolysis of a protein by an acid or enzyme. Agar is an unbranched polysaccharide made from the cell walls of red algae or sea weed. It is used as a microbiological culture medium by dissolving it in hot water, and then cooling it to form a jelly. Agar and peptone are used together for bacterial cultures.
πεπτός, digested, derived from πέσσειν, to digest) are biologically occurring short chains of amino acid monomers linked by peptide (amide) bonds. The covalent chemical bonds are formed when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another. Amino acids that have been incorporated into peptides are termed residues due to the release of either a hydrogen ion from the amine end or a hydroxyl ion from the carboxyl end, or both, as a water molecule is released during formation of each amide bond.
Product Description Bacto ™ Peptone is an enzymatic digest of animal protein. Bacto Peptone was first introducedin 1914 and became the standard Peptone for the preparation of bacteriological culturemedia. The nutritive value of Bacto Peptone is largely dependent on the amino acid contentthat supplies essential nitrogen. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Peptones :Small polypeptides that are intermediate products in the hydrolysis of proteins. The term is often used for any partial hydrolysate of proteins as, e.g., bacteriological peptone, which is used as a medium for the growth of micro-organisms. Enzymatic digests of protein that provide nitrogen in a form that is readily available for bacterial growth. Peptone is the simplified source of protein and can be readily uptake by the microorganism. In nurtient agar it is the basic component/nutrient after which beef or yeast extra … ct is used which are supplementary nutrients.
Peptones. Peptones are the most widely used source of nitrogen in microbial media. Some are made by cooking milk or meat products in acid, but most are made by incubating milk or meat with trypsin, pepsin, or other proteolytic enzymes to digest the protein to a mixture of amino acids, peptides, and polypeptides. 
Peptones :Small polypeptides that are intermediate products in the hydrolysis of proteins. The term is often used for any partial hydrolysate of proteins as, e.g., bacteriolog … ical peptone, which is used as a medium for the growth of micro-organisms. Enzymatic digests of protein that provide nitrogen in a form that is readily available for bacterial growth. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Peptone broth is a material commonly used in a lab. Scientists and research scientists use it to culture the growth of Salmonella and Shigella.