squish. v. squished, squish·ing, squish·es. v. tr. To squeeze or crush together or into a flat mass; squash. v. intr. To emit the gurgling or sucking sound of soft mud being walked on
Squish is an effect in internal combustion engines which creates sudden turbulence of the fuel/air mixture as the piston approaches top dead centre (TDC). In an engine designed to use the squish effect, at top dead centre (TDC) the piston crown comes very close, (typically less than 1mm), to the cylinder head. 
So what is squish clearance? Also known as quench, squish refers to the area or areas where the piston comes very close to the cylinder head while passing through top dead center (TDC). Even though the fire has already been lit, these areas still contain unburned air/fuel mix as the piston arrives. The result is more chamber turbulence, better atomization of the fuel, and the squish band even has a cooling effect on the fuel. Those are all good things! They result in more complete combustion (read: more power and better fuel mileage) as well as better resistance to detonation.
Squish is a commercial cross-platform GUI and regression testing tool that can test applications based on a variety of GUI technologies (see list below). It is developed and maintained by Froglogic. Squish is developed and maintained by Froglogic. Version 1.0 was released on 18 November 2003. Squish uses property-based object identification (independent of screen position), and is able to record and replay test scripts written in JavaScript, Perl, Python, Ruby or Tcl.
squish. 1. In the asexual community, the equivalent of a crush, but explicitly lacking an interest in forming a romantic couple or having a sexual relationship with the person in question. It does not matter if they are in a relationship, as long as you two can have a deep connection. A squish is an intense feeling of attraction, liking, appreciation, admiration for a person you urgently want to get to know better and become close with. A crush on someone that is not associated with a desire for a romantic or sexual relationship. The desire to get to know them and be important to them is purely platonic in nature. Characterized by admiration, respect and affection for a person.
Introduction. Squish band thickness is the distance between the piston and the cylinder head where the piston meets the cylinder bore. If the squish clearance and width is set to an optimal amount, then the fuel is burned efficiently. If the squish distance is too great then the fuel in the squish band is not burned and the engine runs very “dirty”. It is inefficient and does not produce optimal power. The squish band is a very important part of head mods and this is where I spend alot of time.
1. the noise of soft mud being walked on. Familiarity information: SQUISH used as a noun is very rare. • SQUISH (verb). The verb SQUISH has 2 senses: 1. walk through mud or mire. 2. put (a liquid) into a container or another place by means of a squirting action. Familiarity information: SQUISH used as a verb is rare. 
The Squish Band is defined as that area between the FLAT of the piston and the FLAT of the cylinder head at top dead center (TDC). 
Shown above is an angled squish band, i.e. the squish band is at an angle from the horizontal. More common in stock HD motors is a flat or zero degree squish band, which is the same thing except that the fuel is squeezed out horizontally. Now simply measure with a caliper: Squish clearance is then modified to the desired value by adjusting the height of the cylinder, the thickness of the head and base gaskets, using a piston with a larger compression height, or some combination thereof.