For a ridge vent to work properly, it must have adequate intake of fresh, cool air. As the ridge vent expels hot, humid air, intake vents feed fresh, cool air into the attic. Equal flow of exhaust and intake should be provided. Example: 900-square-foot attic / 150 square feet = 6 square feet of net-free area.
1 The larger the vent or grill, the greater the distance between the vents or grills resulting in a massive localised air flow close to the vent and little or no air flow as you move away from the vents. 2  Placing large vents on one side of the roof directly in line with vents on the opposite side.
Metal Roof. Metal panel roof systems require a minimum 3/8 air gap between the underside of the metal panel and the covered or uncovered insulation board.
We have a question about what air gap you should leave between the insulation and the roofing membrane in a pitched roof almost every day.
A fairly common complaint is that of water leaks from the rooftop air conditioner. These do not have to be nearly as hard to find or fix as people often make them-they simply need to be dealt with in a systematic method.
1 Placing large vents on one side of the roof directly in line with vents on the opposite side. 2  This can create a wind tunnel across the roof between the large vents and no air movement as little as 600mm away. 3  Installing more high level ventilation than there is low level ventilation.
Vents should extend at least 6 inches above the roof and be at least 12 inches away from a wall. The vent pipe should extend at least six inches up through the roof of the house. Vents that are (improperly) terminated in the attic may allow odors to find their way into
There are special attic vent baffles designed to hold this air-space open. They are installed in the rafter bays, where ceiling joists meet the roof rafters (see Easy2DIY for an illustration). However, the lack of eave vents in your attic may be a problem. Vents at the eaves allow air to circulate in the attic.