Also, distributions taken before 59½ could be subject to a 10% penalty. However, with an inherited traditional IRA, RMD rules apply even if you are under age 70½. Generally, you have until Dec. 31 of the year following the owner's death to take your first RMD based on a life expectancy table. Contrary to popular opinion, non-spousal beneficiaries of a Roth IRA – or a Roth 401(k) – are subject to RMD rules, whereas the original owner was not. Rules are confusing. Distributions from a Roth IRA may be subject to taxation if the original account owner did not hold the IRA for a minimum of five years.
A traditional IRA is a way to save for retirement that gives you tax advantages. 1  Contributions you make to a traditional IRA may be fully or partially deductible, depending on your circumstances, and. 2  Generally, amounts in your traditional IRA (including earnings and gains) are not taxed until distributed. 
If you inherit a Roth IRA and roll over to an Inherited Roth IRA, you must take MRDs (unlike the original owner, who was exempt from MRDs during their lifetime). The assets must be moved to an inherited IRA and the same rules apply for separating the assets as when there are multiple beneficiaries. MRD rules dictate not only how much, at a minimum, you are required to withdraw from an IRA, but when you must begin taking those distributions, as well. Generally, you must begin taking MRDs for Inherited IRA assets by December 31 of the year after the year of the original owner’s death.
Purpose The purpose of this brochure is to provide a person who isa beneficiary of a traditional IRA (including SEPs andSIMPLEs) or Roth IRA with a basic understanding of the fed-eral tax rules which govern an inherited IRA. An IRA bene-ficiary has certain rights and duties. 
Label the account correctly. The money in an inherited IRA can be moved to a new financial institution without incurring taxes or penalties if you make a trustee-to-trustee transfer into another IRA that is set up and maintained in the name of the deceased IRA owner for the benefit of the beneficiary. You could lose 50 percent of it.” If you fail to take a required minimum distribution, you will have to pay a 50 percent excise tax on the amount that should have been withdrawn. [Read: 11 Ways to Avoid the IRA Early Withdrawal Penalty .]. Special rules for surviving spouses.
1 Generally, you must take distributions during your lifetime or within five years after the original account holder passed away. 2  With an Inherited Traditional IRA, you’ll pay taxes on any distributions you take. 3  Rollover, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs become Inherited Traditional IRAs. Inherited IRA Withdrawal Rules. With an Inherited IRA, you need to take annual distributions no matter what age you are when you open the account. This doesn’t apply if you've simply transferred another IRA to your own IRA.
Inheriting a Roth IRA. If you inherit a Roth IRA and transfer the assets to an Inherited Roth IRA, unlike the original owner, you must take MRDs. As long as the assets have been in the Roth IRA for five or more years, these MRDs can be withdrawn federally tax-free. MRD rules dictate not only how much, at a minimum, you are required to withdraw from an IRA, but when you must begin taking those distributions, as well. Generally, you must begin taking MRDs for Inherited IRA assets by December 31 of the year after the year of the original owner’s death.
- June 6, 2014. Individual Retirement Arrangements (IRAs) can be a great way to save for retirement because of the tax benefits they may provide. If you're eligible, you can choose a traditional IRA for an up-front tax deduction and defer paying taxes until you take withdrawals in the future. 
Inherited IRA distribution rules: 1  Generally, you must take distributions during your lifetime or within five years after the original account holder passed away. 2  With an Inherited Traditional IRA, you’ll pay taxes on any distributions you take. 3  Rollover, SEP, and SIMPLE IRAs become Inherited Traditional IRAs. Inherited IRA Withdrawal Rules. With an Inherited IRA, you need to take annual distributions no matter what age you are when you open the account. This doesn’t apply if you've simply transferred another IRA to your own IRA.