To apply for probate or letters of administration, you need to fill in a number of forms. You always need to fill in form PA1. This form asks for details about the person who has died, their surviving relatives, the personal representative and some details about the will, if there is one.
The time it takes to get probate or letters of administration varies according to the circumstances. It may only take three to five weeks if there are no complications, inheritance tax is not payable, the estate is straightforward and all forms are filled in properly.
On average it takes a week to ten days for applications to be processed by deal with the Probate Registry, as long as there are no queries raised or complicated matters involved. Probate in this scenario should take 4 to 6 weeks.
Published July 3, 2012 | By Tony Crocker. If a loved one has died intestate and you are legally entitled to administrate the will you may be wondering how long it all takes. From the initial application for letters of administration, it usually takes around 4-6 weeks before you receive the documents. This is just the start, after you receive the letters, which entitle you to access the deceased’s financial accounts you may have a lot of work ahead of you.
A letter of administration is a document issued by the probate court to the person who is to administer an estate where there is no will. It proves that that person is … officially the one to deal with concerning the estate.
Letters of Aministration is the formal name for the document that a probate court issues to a person who is appointed to handle the estate of a decedent who died without a will. Letters Testamentary are issued to executors when there is a will.
Applications lodged by Probate Sydney for Letters of Administration can be returned by the Court from anywhere between 1 to 4 months of filing. To get started with the application simply complete your details by clicking here, or contact us on 1300 4 PROBATE (1300 477 622). You may also be interested in reading: 1  Letters of Administration Fees and Costs.