Because water has good properties as a coolant, antifreeze is used in internal combustion engines and other heat transfer applications, such as HVAC chillers and solar water heaters. The purpose of antifreeze is to prevent a rigid enclosure from bursting due to expansion when water freezes. Commercially, both the additive (pure concentrate) and the mixture (diluted solution) are called antifreeze, depending on the context.
An antifreeze is an additive which lowers the freezing point of a water-based liquid. An antifreeze mixture is used to achieve freezing-point depression for cold environments and also achieves boiling-point elevation (anti-boil) to allow higher coolant temperature. Freezing and boiling points are colligative properties of a solution, which depend on the concentration of the dissolved substance. The purpose of antifreeze is to prevent a rigid enclosure from bursting due to expansion when water freezes. Commercially, both the additive (pure concentrate) and the mixture (diluted solution) are called antifreeze, depending on the context.
Ethylene glycol is used as a protecting group for carbonyl groups in organic synthesis. Treating a ketone or aldehyde with ethylene glycol in the presence of an acid catalyst (e.g., p-toluenesulfonic acid; BF3•Et2O) gives the corresponding a 1,3-dioxolane, which is resistant to bases and other nucleophiles. Minor uses of ethylene glycol include the manufacture of capacitors, as a chemical intermediate in the manufacture of 1,4-dioxane, and as an additive to prevent corrosion in liquid cooling systems for personal computers.
by Bob Gillis and Dino Labiste. Although this fire making technique is not primitive technology, it is worth mentioning in terms of survival skills. Fire can be produce by chemical reaction using potassium permanganate mixed with antifreeze from a car radiator or glycerin. Potassium permanganate used to be found in first aid kits and was utilized as a mild antiseptic. 
Ethylene glycol (IUPAC name: ethane-1,2-diol) is an organic compound primarily used as a raw material in the manufacture of polyester fibers and fabric industry, and polyethylene terephthalate resins (PET) used in bottling. Minor uses of ethylene glycol include the manufacture of capacitors, as a chemical intermediate in the manufacture of 1,4-dioxane, and as an additive to prevent corrosion in liquid cooling systems for personal computers.
We formulate our engine coolants primarily using ethylene glycol, though we use other glycols where applications or customer preference dictates. As a national antifreeze / coolant manufacturer and distributor, we are known for our personal touch coupled with efficiency and friendliness. SECURITY ® Extended Life antifreeze (strawberry red), Pah|Nol ® Gold (gold), and SECURITY ® Extended Life Nitrite Free antifreeze (yellow) are available for your Heavy Duty Extended Life needs. Houghton Chemical also has several propylene glycol based products for engine antifreeze.
Ethylene glycol is a High Production Volume Chemical; it breaks down in air in about ten days, and in water or soil in a few weeks. It enters the environment through the dispersal of ethylene glycol-containing products, especially at airports where it is used in deicing agents for runways and airplanes. Minor uses of ethylene glycol include the manufacture of capacitors, as a chemical intermediate in the manufacture of 1,4-dioxane, and as an additive to prevent corrosion in liquid cooling systems for personal computers.
Fireball was recalled in Sweden, Norway and Finland. | Fireball Whiskey. Fireball was recalled in Sweden, Norway and Finland. | Fireball Whiskey. Fireball Cinnamon Whisky is taking heat in Europe over a chemical ingredient that's used in some forms of antifreeze.
Ethylene glycol, the main ingredient in most antifreeze brands, has an inviting aroma and a sweet flavor. Its appealing smell and taste often tempt animals and children to drink the highly poisonous substance. 1. Switch to a brand of antifreeze that contains propylene glycol instead of ethylene glycol. Note that although it's safer than ethylene glycol antifreeze, propylene glycol antrifreeze is still toxic. 2.