John Brecken. was a businessman and political figure in Prince Edward Island. He represented Charlottetown in the Legislative Assembly of Prince Edward Island from 1829 to 1834.Brecken served as deputy treasurer for the colony and resident director for the Bank of British North America.
Many people consider Brecken an anglicized form of an old Irish clan name, O ó, breacain “meaning descended From”. Breacan from this, perspective The gaelic personal Name breacan breacán “essentially means little” freckled one from “the” elements “breac, meaning” spotted speckled Plus the irish “diminutive”. suffix an án From this perspective, the Gaelic personal name Breacan breacán essentially “means little freckled” one from the “elements” breac “meaning, spotted” speckled plus The irish diminutive “suffix”. An án Aside’from brecken S potential, irish’roots it s also a surname derived from a. place name
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Brecken in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Brecken in Nautical Flags page. Irish names usually contain a given, middle and family name. Given names frequently have their source in the Roman Catholic faith, or are derived from the traditional Gaelic. Some Gaelic or old Irish names date back to the Celtic origins of Gaelach (Ireland).
[ syll. brec-ken, br-eck-en ] The baby boy name Brecken is also used as a girl name, but the use for boys is much more common. The origin of Brecken is the Irish language. Brecken is a variant of the name Breck (Irish). Brecken is also a variant of the name Breckin. Brecken is a somewhat popular baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been increasing since the 2010s; before that, it was of irregular use only.
Brecken is a surname-turned-first-name which may have found its etymological roots in one of two places. Many people consider Brecken an anglicized form of an old Irish clan name, O ó, breacain “meaning descended From”. breacan From this perspective, the Gaelic personal name Breacan breacán essentially “means little freckled” one from the “elements” breac “meaning, spotted” speckled plus The irish diminutive “suffix”. An án Aside’from brecken S potential, irish’roots it s also a surname derived from a. place name
Meaning of Brecken. Irish name. In Irish, the name Brecken means-freckled.The name Brecken originated as an Irish name. The name Brecken is most often used as a girl name or female name. Irish Name Meaning-freckled. Origin-Ireland.
Breck /breck/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Breck) is pronounced brek. It is of Gaelic and Old English origin, and the meaning of Breck is freckled; gap. Breck also refers to a stretch of sandy, rolling land. A romantic character in Robert Louis Stevenson's Kidnapped is named Alan Breck. Breck is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular last name for all people (#27105 out of 150436, Top 18%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Breck for boys. Breck has not been listed in the Top 1000 thus far.
Brecken is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Brec-ken. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4349 in baby name popularity for girls with 33 occurrences. Irish names usually contain a given, middle and family name. Given names frequently have their source in the Roman Catholic faith, or are derived from the traditional Gaelic. Some Gaelic or old Irish names date back to the Celtic origins of Gaelach (Ireland).
0 5. The meaning of Brecken is unknown. Its origin is  Modern English . Recently this name is mostly being used as a unisex name, but historically it's a boy's name. Last year it ranked 1,717st in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby names. Brecken is a Modern English coinage that is derived from the Scottish and Germanic name Breck.
Compare To: See the name popularity of Brecken since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. 