Cells contain small, membrane-bound sacs that contain a cocktail of  digestive chemicals. These sacs, called lysozymes, are responsible  for the destruction and turnover of … cellular material. A lysosome is a sac of digestive enzymes, used to break down  monosaccharaides and disaccharides. Lysosomes are found in animal  cells and are also called suicide sacs. 1 person found this useful. Edit.
3. Cristae contain enzymes important to ATP production; cristae also increase the surface area for ATP production. e. Lysosomes are membrane-enclosed sacs that contain hydrolytic enzymes, which are important in intracellular digestion, the recycling of a cell’s organic materials and programmed cell death (apoptosis). Lysosomes carry out intracellular digestion in a variety of ways. 
1 These proteins are then transported in vesicles around the cell. 2  Lysosomes are membrane bound spherical sacs which contain digestive enzymes used to break down materials, such as non-self microorganisms engulfed by Phagocytes. 1 Chloroplasts contain two fluid separated membranes and the inner membrane is folded into a network of flattened sacs called Thylakoids that are stacked into Grana (one Granum, two Grana). 2  The Thylakoids contain Chlorophyll in which the process of Photosynthesis occurs.
The sac of digestive enzymes in a cell is called a lysosome.  Lysosomes are found in most animal cells but not in red blood  cells. A lysosome is a sac of digestive enzymes, used to break down  monosaccharaides and disaccharides. Lysosomes are found in animal  cells and are also called suicide sacs. 1 person found this useful. Edit.
In a chloroplast, the stacks of membranous sacs are called  thylakoid membranes. Grana is the term used to refer to the stacks  of thylakoids. It is in this internal part of … the chloroplast where  photosynthesis occurs. Answered. 
Lysosomes originate as membrane-bound vesicles (called Golgi vesicles) that bud from the Golgi apparatus. They are primarily involved with intracellular digestion. Lysosomes fuse with vesicles (small vacuoles) formed by endocytosis. The contents of these vesicles are digested by lysosomal enzymes. Pinocytotic Vesicle: A membrane-bound vacuole formed by a specific type of endocytosis called pinocytosis. The plasma membrane invaginates (pinches inwardly) to form a vesicle that detaches and moves into the cytoplasm.
1 The Thylakoids contain Chlorophyll in which the process of Photosynthesis occurs. 2  Vesicles are membrane bound sacs that are used to store or transport substances around the cell. 3  Lysosomes are actually Vesicles. 4  Vacuoles are essentially larger Vesicles, and they are formed by the joining together of many Vesicles. 1 Chloroplasts contain two fluid separated membranes and the inner membrane is folded into a network of flattened sacs called Thylakoids that are stacked into Grana (one Granum, two Grana). 2 
1 Lysosomes are membrane bound spherical sacs which contain digestive enzymes used to break down materials, such as non-self microorganisms engulfed by Phagocytes. 2  Mitochondria are round double membrane bound organelles responsible for Aerobic Respiration. 1 Chloroplasts contain two fluid separated membranes and the inner membrane is folded into a network of flattened sacs called Thylakoids that are stacked into Grana (one Granum, two Grana). 2  The Thylakoids contain Chlorophyll in which the process of Photosynthesis occurs.
The Golgi apparatus is abundant in secretory cells, such as cells of the pancreas. BACK TO CELL IMAGE Golgi Vesicle: A membrane-bound body that forms by budding from the Golgi apparatus. It contains proteins (glycoproteins), such as digestive enzymes, and migrates to the cell (plasma) membrane. Golgi vesicles fuse with the cell membrane and discharge their contents into the exterior of the cell through a process called exocytosis. Pinocytotic Vesicle: A membrane-bound vacuole formed by a specific type of endocytosis called pinocytosis. The plasma membrane invaginates (pinches inwardly) to form a vesicle that detaches and moves into the cytoplasm.