Bell began his research in 1874 and had financial backers who gave him the best business plan for bringing it to market. In 1877-78, the first telephone line was constructed, the first switchboard was created and the first telephone exchange was in operation. Three years later, almost 49,000 telephones were in use. In 1880, Bell (in the photo below) merged this company with others to form the American Bell Telephone Company and in 1885 American Telegraph and Telephone Company (AT&T) was formed; it dominated telephone communications for the next century. 
Alexander Graham Bell received the first patent for a telephone in 1876. He came up with the idea at his summer home in Brantford, Ontario, Canada, but built the first device … in Boston, Massachusetts, USA. Antonio Meucci invented an early voice communicating device around 1854, but was unable to patent his telettrofono due to lack of money. He installed a telephone-like device within his house in order to communicate with his wife who was ill at the time.
Alexander Graham Bell conceived of the telephone at his summer home  in Brantford, Ontario and physically created his first phone in  Boston, Massachusetts (where, he said, it was 'born'). This  was a result of his research into improving the telegraph system. On 10 March 1876, Scottish-born inventor, Alexander Graham Bell uttered the famous words into the telephone to his assistant in the next room: Mr. Watson, come here, I want t … o see you.
Alexander Graham Bell received the first patent for a telephone in 1876. He came up with the idea at his summer home in Brantford, Ontario, Canada, but built the first device … in Boston, Massachusetts, USA. On 10 March 1876, Scottish-born inventor, Alexander Graham Bell uttered the famous words into the telephone to his assistant in the next room: Mr. Watson, come here, I want t … o see you.
Alexander Graham Bell conceived of (invented) the telephone at his summer home in Brantford, Ontario in the summer of 1876, and then later physically created his first telepho … ne in Boston, Massachusetts (where, he said, it was 'born'). On 10 March 1876, Scottish-born inventor, Alexander Graham Bell uttered the famous words into the telephone to his assistant in the next room: Mr. Watson, come here, I want t … o see you.
In the 1880's Meucci was credited with the early invention of inductive loading of telephone wires to increase long-distance signals. Unfortunately, serious burns from an accident, a lack of English, and poor business abilities resulted in Meucci's failing to develop his inventions commercially in America. Charles Bourseul was a French telegraph engineer who proposed (but did not build) the first design of a make-and-break telephone in 1854. That is about the same time that Meucci later claimed to have created his first attempt at the telephone in Italy.
By the year 2000, more than a billion people all over the world had gone wireless—using cellular technology to talk and deliver text and photos on super-lightweight telephones smaller than a deck of cards. Alexander Graham Bell's invention of the telephone in 1876 rang in the era of talking at a distance. Innovators in the 20th century expanded the telephone's reach across continents and oceans, figuratively shrinking the world and connecting its citizens. Independently invented by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company's (AT&T) George Campbell and Michael Pupin of Columbia University, the loading coils are first used commercially in New York and Boston, nearly doubling the transmission distance of open lines.
The telephone was invented on the 10th March 1876. The telephone was invented by Alexander Graham Bell, a Scottish inventor, scientist and engineer. Alexander Graham Bell actually considered his invention of the telephone to be an intrusion of his scientific work and refused to have one installed in his study. Antonio Meucci invented an early voice communicating device around 1854, but was unable to patent his telettrofono due to lack of money. He installed a telephone-like device within his house in order to communicate with his wife who was ill at the time.
Antonio Meucci invented an early voice communicating device around 1854, but was unable to patent his telettrofono due to lack of money. He installed a telephone-like device within his house in order to communicate with his wife who was ill at the time. On 10 March 1876, Scottish-born inventor, Alexander Graham Bell uttered the famous words into the telephone to his assistant in the next room: Mr. Watson, come here, I want t … o see you.
The invention of the telephone is the culmination of work done by many individuals, the history of which involves a collection of claims and counterclaims. Charles Bourseul was a French telegraph engineer who proposed (but did not build) the first design of a make-and-break telephone in 1854. That is about the same time that Meucci later claimed to have created his first attempt at the telephone in Italy.