Gold plating is a method of depositing a thin layer of gold on the surface of glass or metal, most often copper or silver. Gold plating is often used in electronics, to provide a corrosion-resistant electrically conductive layer on copper, typically in electrical connectors and printed circuit boards. In one method, a solid surface is covered with a metal sheet, and then heat and pressure are applied to fuse them (a version of this is Sheffield plate). Other plating techniques include vapor deposition under vacuum and sputter deposition.
When it comes to electroplating and chemical plating, EPi is a leader in the industry. EPi’s electroplating chemicals are of extremely high quality. Zinc plating, nickel plating, and copper plating chemicals are just a few of the many metal plating solutions EPi has to offer. Electroplating Chemicals. EPi developed a single additive cyanide copper electroplating process in 1954 using the now famous E-Brite 23-11 brightener and a single additive nickel plating process in 1961.
A mandrelis a form used as a cathode in electroplating.The advantage of the process is that it faithfullyreproduces a form of mandrel exactly, to within onemicrometer, without shrinkage and distortion asso-ciated with other metal forming techniques, such ascasting, stamping, and drawing. metal on the surface of the substrate with a solution. [5] For example, chromate coatings are formed by the reac-tion of water solutions of chromic acid or chromiumsalts. The chromate coatings can be applied to alumi-num, zinc, cadmium, and magnesium.
VIII-Metals-G-Electroplating-1 ELECTROPLATING Electroplating is the application of a metal coating to a metallic or other conducting surface by an electrochemical process. The plating solution, of course, is contained in a tank, which must be of a material appropriate to the solution it contains: often plain mild steel for alkaline solutions, and of steel lined with resistant material for acid solutions. Such linings may be of rubber, various plastics, or even glass or lead.
The metal atoms that plate your object come from out of the electrolyte, so if you want to copper plate something you need an electrolyte made from a solution of a copper salt, while for gold plating you need a gold-based electrolyte—and so on. Otherwise, when metal atoms from the electrolyte are deposited onto it, they won't form a good bond and they may simply rub off again. Generally, cleaning is done by dipping the electrode into a strong acid or alkaline solution or by (briefly) connecting the electroplating circuit in reverse.
The process used in electroplating is called electrodeposition. It is analogous to a galvanic cell acting in reverse. The part to be plated is the cathode of the circuit. In one technique, the anode is made of the metal to be plated on the part. The cations associate with the anions in the solution. These cations are reduced at the cathode to deposit in the metallic, zero valence state. For example, in an acid solution, copper is oxidized at the anode to Cu 2+ by losing two electrons.
Electroplating is widely used in various industries for coating metal objects with a thin layer of a different metal. The layer of metal deposited has some desired property, which the metal of the object lacks. The cations associate with the anions in the solution. These cations are reduced at the cathode to deposit in the metallic, zero valence state. For example, in an acid solution, copper is oxidized at the anode to Cu 2+ by losing two electrons.
Stumble. Post. Share. A simple example of the electroplating process is the electroplating of copper in which the metal to be plated (copper) is used as the anode and the electrolyte solution contains the ion of the metal to be plated (Cu 2+ in this example). Copper goes into solution at the anode as it is plated at the cathode. 
Plating is a surface covering in which a metal is deposited on a conductive surface. Plating has been done for hundreds of years; it is also critical for modern technology. In one method, a solid surface is covered with a metal sheet, and then heat and pressure are applied to fuse them (a version of this is Sheffield plate). Other plating techniques include vapor deposition under vacuum and sputter deposition.
T here's no such thing as alchemy—magically changing common chemical elements into rare and valuable ones—but electroplating is possibly the next best thing. The idea is to use electricity to coat a relatively mundane metal, such as copper, with a thin layer of another, more precious metal, such as gold or silver. Otherwise, when metal atoms from the electrolyte are deposited onto it, they won't form a good bond and they may simply rub off again. Generally, cleaning is done by dipping the electrode into a strong acid or alkaline solution or by (briefly) connecting the electroplating circuit in reverse.