1 Their thin walls allow oxygen, nutrients, carbon dioxide, and other waste products to pass to and from our organ's cells. 2  Veins. 3  These are blood vessels that take blood back to the heart; this blood has lower oxygen content and is rich in waste products that are to be excreted or removed from the body. In addition to carrying fresh oxygen from the lungs and nutrients to the body's tissues, it also takes the body's waste products, including carbon dioxide, away from the tissues. This is necessary to sustain life and promote the health of all parts of the body. There are three main types of blood vessels: 1  Arteries.
1 Veins. 2  These are blood vessels that take blood back to the heart; this blood has lower oxygen content and is rich in waste products that are to be excreted or removed from the body. 3  Veins become larger and larger as they get closer to the heart. In addition to carrying fresh oxygen from the lungs and nutrients to the body's tissues, it also takes the body's waste products, including carbon dioxide, away from the tissues. This is necessary to sustain life and promote the health of all parts of the body. There are three main types of blood vessels: 1  Arteries.
The cardiovascular, or circulatory, system in humans is composed of the heart and the blood. vessels--arteries, veins, and capillaries. Its purpose is to provide nutrients and oxygen to the tissues and to remove wastes from them. Several organs interact with the circulatory system in very specific ways. Nutrients and fluids are absorbed from the digestive organs. The spleen then filters the blood, removing old blood cells and microorganisms. Phagocytes, a type of white blood cell, engulf these materials and destroy them.
The vascular system, also called the circulatory system, is made up of the vessels that carry blood and lymph through the body. The arteries and veins carry blood throughout the body, delivering oxygen and nutrients to the body tissues and taking away tissue waste matter. The lymph vessels carry lymphatic fluid (a clear, colorless fluid containing water and blood cells). The vessels of the blood circulatory system are: Arteries. Blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body. Veins. Blood vessels that carry blood from the body back into the heart. Capillaries. Tiny blood vessels between arteries and veins that distribute oxygen-rich blood to the body. Blood moves through the circulatory system as a result of being pumped out by the heart
capillaries. permeable, microscopic vessels between arteries and veins. serve as the sites of exchange between the blood and body tissues; it is from them that oxygen and nutrients exit the blood, and CO2 and cellular waste enter the blood. 
How does blood enter and exit the liver? Blood to be processed by the liver enters via two sources:   * the hepatic artery which delivers oxygenated blood from the general circulation  * the portal vein from th … e small intestine (deoxygenated blood)   Blood exits through the hepatic vein to the heart. 2 people found this useful. Nutrients from food and beverage is absorbed inside the walls of the small intestine. As we digest our food, all nutrients are taken in the small intestine and would most prob … ably then enter our bloodstream from there on
1 Capillaries. 2  These are small, thin blood vessels that connect the arteries and the veins. 3  Their thin walls allow oxygen, nutrients, carbon dioxide, and other waste products to pass to and from our organ's cells. In addition to carrying fresh oxygen from the lungs and nutrients to the body's tissues, it also takes the body's waste products, including carbon dioxide, away from the tissues. This is necessary to sustain life and promote the health of all parts of the body. There are three main types of blood vessels: 1  Arteries.
In contrast, oxygen and nutrients diffuse across the blood vessel layers and enter interstitial fluid, which carries oxygen and nutrients to the target cells, and carbon dioxide and wastes in the opposite direction. The other component of the circulatory system, the lymphatic system, is open. The essential components of the human cardiovascular system are the heart, blood and blood vessels. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood.