Codeine is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of codeine. Acetaminophen and codeine is a combination medicine used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and codeine may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medicine if you have recently used alcohol, sedatives, tranquilizers, or other narcotic medications.
Codeine is an opioid medicine (sometimes called an opiate) . It is used to treat mild-to-moderate types of pain. It can be particularly useful when painkillers such as paracetamol and ibuprofen have not been effective.
Codeine is an opioid pain reliever used to treat mild to moderately severe pain. It is also used, usually in combination with other medications, to reduce coughing. Codeine is available as a single-ingredient product, or in combination with acetaminophen or aspirin, and in some cough and cold medications.
Facts about codeine. 1  An opioid pain reliever used to treat mild to moderately severe pain. 2  Also used, usually in combination with other medications, to reduce coughing. 3  Available as a single-ingredient product, or in combination with acetaminophen or aspirin, and in some cough and cold medications.
Other side effects with the use of Codeine include headache, nausea, weakness, anxiety, euphoria, itching, vomiting, dry mouth, constipation, depression and lack of sex drive. Severe allergic reactions can occur and may include swelling, itching, rashes, hives, breathing trouble, tightening of the chest and tremor.
Home » Codeine General Information. Codeine is the most widely used narcotic in the world, naturally occuring, and used to treat mild to moderate pain and cough suppression. Commonly known as Tylenol 3, codeine falls into the category of opiates and is metabolized like morphine through glucuronic acid.
1 Codeine is the most widely used opiate drug in the world. 2  It is used commonly for medicinal reasons to treat mild to moderate pain and as a cough suppressant. 3  It can also be used to treat diarrhoea and irritable bowel syndrome.