Buprenorphine is the generic form of Subutex, a prescription drug used to treat dependence on opioid painkillers such as oxycodone (OxyContin). It's also prescribed in lower dosages to treat pain. If you are recovering from surgery, your doctor may start you on buprenorphine to treat your post-operative pain. 
Subutex Dosage for Treating Opioid Dependence. One typical way to dose Subutex is to start with 8 mg on the first day and 16 mg (the full dosage) on the second day. Often, by the third day you can be switched to Suboxone ® (buprenorphine and naloxone). Typically, the initial dose for treating opioid dependence is 8 mg on the first day and 16 mg
Buprenorphine Quantity Limits. Drugs containing buprenorphine and a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone are typically used for the treatment of opiate dependency. The manufacturer s recommended maintenance dose of buprenorphine is 16 mg per day and the maximum FDA approved dose is 32 mg per day. Buprenorphine Maximum Dose Limits Reduced. Nov. 19, 2014 MHCP Provider Update PRX-14-08. Effective Jan. 1, 2015, products containing buprenorphine will be limited to 24
A maximum daily dosage of up to 24 mg/day (based on buprenorphine) will be. allowed for ninety consecutive days. After the ninety days has elapsed, a maximum daily dosage. of up to 16 mg/day (based on buprenorphine) will be allowed. Beginning with the first Suboxone@ claim submitted with a date of service on or after. February I, 2013, a maximum daily dosage of up to 24 mg/day (based on buprenorphine). is allowed per recipient for an initial ninety consecutive day period. After the initial ninety day period, a maximum daily dosage limit of up to 16 mg/day. (based on buprenorphine) is allowed per recipient. Subutex. The maximum daily dosage limit for Subutex@ is 16 mg/day
Multiple clinical trials have compared buprenorphine with methadone for opioid maintenance. Most studies have shown that buprenorphine (less than 40 mg) is as effective as low-dose methadone (less than 40 mg). 17, 18 High-dose methadone (greater than 60 mg) may be more effective than buprenorphine, however. A meta-analysis 18 of five studies that compared the two therapies showed that 8 to 12 mg of buprenorphine is not as effective as 50 to 80 mg of methadone. 19 A 2004 Cochrane review 16 confirmed these findings. 
The maximum dose in the BNF is 32 mg but in the RCGP guidelines it is 24 and I think 16 int he clinical guidelines. anyway as Simon says the main effect of this will be a longer lasting effect rather than intoixication. 
Dosing Overview. The recommended buprenorphine daily dose is 12 to 16 mg/day* for patients with opioid use disorder. The minimum effective dose is typically around 8 mg/day, and the maximum recommended dose is 32 mg/day. Some patients do well on as little as 2 or 4 mg/day, however. Most patients should be started and maintained on the buprenorphine/naloxone combination formulation.
SUBOXONE is supplied as hexagonal orange tablets in 2 dosage strengths: 2 mg buprenorphine + 0.5 mg naloxone embossed with a sword logo at the midline and N2 on the reverse side. and 8 mg buprenorphine + 2 mg naloxone embossed with a sword logo. 