Generally, commercial kitchen cleaning services charge by the hour: 1  Rates usually range from $50 to $150 per hour, depending on the number of crew members. 2  A two-person cleaning crew costs an average of $50 per hour, but it will take several hours to get the job done. 1 A two-person cleaning crew costs an average of $50 per hour, but it will take several hours to get the job done. 2  A five-person crew could run $150 per hour, but the work will be done much faster.
For example, per square foot figures ranging from $0.08 – $0.14 per sq. ft. or $0.95 – $1.50 per sq. ft., are offered up with little or no explanation; assuming it’s common knowledge that the former generally refers to a monthly calculation; while the latter is meant for a yearly price estimate. Educated Guess. Others suggest you should rely on your own experience, simply guesstimate how long it should take to clean, and then charge so much per hour. But, that advice can be equally misleading. And the cleaning contractor with little or no experience is at a real disadvantage.
Cleaning services that cater to the restaurant industry understand the unique cleaning needs of your industry. They'll work with you to design a cleaning process that meets your needs, leaving both the front of the house and the back of the house sparkling and sanitized. Customers won't come back to a dirty restaurant. And if you're not maintaining a high standard of clean, you're putting your patrons at risk of food-borne illness, which can lead to health code violations or even the closure of your
Here are a few sample responses from our pricing survey to give you a better idea of how much steel buildings cost. $300 -- entire office cleaning and sanitizing, clean and sanitize mobile trailer floors, and clean and sanitize shop bathroom. (5,000 - 10,000 sq ft) - Business Services, Spring, Texas. Whether your cleaning needs include a small office, a retail store, or a large warehouse, knowing about how much you're likely to spend can really help you out as you compare bids from various companies. We surveyed thousands of BuyerZone users to find out what they paid for commercial cleaning services.
1 Standard cleaning services such as vacuuming, dusting and cleaning the bathroom usually runs $.05 to $.20 per square foot or $20 to $50 per hour. 2  You can opt for the service daily, weekly or monthly, depending on your needs. Customers won't come back to a dirty restaurant. And if you're not maintaining a high standard of clean, you're putting your patrons at risk of food-borne illness, which can lead to health code violations or even the closure of your
1 Most companies charge separately for labor-intensive special services such as stripping and waxing floors 25 cents - 50 cents a square foot), carpet cleaning ($20-$40 an hour), and cleaning microwaves or refrigerators ($10-$35 per appliance). 2  Generally the larger the office, the lower the cost per square foot. 1 Similar service for a typical 6-room, 2,000-square-foot office with a bathroom and a kitchenette in a less urban area might cost 10 cents - 55 cents per square foot or around $800-$2,000 a month.
1 Kitchen cleaning runs $50 to $150 per hour, depending on the size of the crew and the level of deep cleaning that is required. 2  This is usually only necessary a few times each year. 3  Professional carpet cleaning costs $.05 to $.25 per square foot. Restaurant Cleaning Service Average Costs. The cost of hiring a restaurant cleaning service can be just a few hundred dollars a month for light cleaning tasks such as dusting, vacuuming, and cleaning the bathrooms.
1 Rates usually range from $50 to $150 per hour, depending on the number of crew members. 2  A two-person cleaning crew costs an average of $50 per hour, but it will take several hours to get the job done. 3  A five-person crew could run $150 per hour, but the work will be done much faster. 1 A two-person cleaning crew costs an average of $50 per hour, but it will take several hours to get the job done. 2
Generally, commercial kitchen cleaning services charge by the hour: 1  Rates usually range from $50 to $150 per hour, depending on the number of crew members. 2  Looked at another way, standard kitchen cleaning rates are usually $20 to $35 per crew member, per hour. 1 A two-person cleaning crew costs an average of $50 per hour, but it will take several hours to get the job done. 2  A five-person crew could run $150 per hour, but the work will be done much faster.
1 Heavy-duty cleaning runs as much as $50 to $150 per hour, depending on the level of cleaning that is required, but you probably only need this type of cleaning a few times per year. Customers won't come back to a dirty restaurant. And if you're not maintaining a high standard of clean, you're putting your patrons at risk of food-borne illness, which can lead to health code violations or even the closure of your