Bible comes from the Greek word biblos which means book. It is the Jewish collection of the history books from the beginning of time, books addressing the people of Israel … , and the writings of the apostles of Jesus. As to what it means, the text speaks for itself. I think it mean word or holy word. The colour ruby is used on the fortieth because rubies are thought to possess an eternal inner flame which is a symbol that the passion in a marriage is still very alive and strong after 40 years together.
King James 2000 Bible. She is more precious than rubies: and all the things you can desire are not to be compared unto her. American King James Version. She is more precious than rubies: and all the things you can desire are not to be compared to her. Darby Bible Translation. She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou canst desire are not equal unto her. English Revised Version. She is more precious than rubies: and none of the things thou canst desire are to be compared unto her.
4:7). The ruby was one of the stones in the high priest's breastplate (Ex. 28:17). A comparison is made between the value of wisdom and rubies (Job 28:18; Prov. 3:15; 8:11). The price of a virtuous woman is said to be far above rubies (Prov. 31:10). The exact meaning of the Hebrew word is uncertain. Some render it red coral; others, pearl or mother-of-pearl.
Concerning the meaning of the Hebrew words translated rubies there is much difference of opinion. (Job 28:18) see also Prov 3:15; 8:11; 31:10 Some suppose coral to be in tended; others pearl, supposing that the original word signifies merely bright in color, or color of a reddish tinge.. (The real ruby is a red sapphire, next in value to the diamond. The finest rubies are brought chiefly from Ceylon and Burmah.) Bibliography Information Smith, William, Dr. Entry for 'Rubies'. Smith's Bible Dictionary. . 1901. 1  Rosin.
The Hebrew word for rubies (paniyn paniy) in Proverb 31:10 includes costly pearls as well. According to experts in London, pearls are now in some classes worth more value than diamonds. The Bible teaches in Proverb 31:10 that a virtuous woman is FAR MORE VALUABLE than rubies or pearls! She is worth more than diamonds! The word virtuous in Proverb 31:10 means much more than what most people think it means. The Hebrew word is chayil and means an army, wealth, virtue, valor, strength. The word attests to the spiritual, emotional, and physical strength of a woman.
Gemstones of the Bible: Throughout history, in every civilization, gemstones have been highly prized and sought after. The Bible makes numerous references to jewels and precious stones. Here are some of the gemstones mentioned in the bible with their history and meaning. The name Topaz may derive from Topazos, a word meaning to seek, which was also the name of an obscure difficult to locate island in the Red Sea. However, the gemstone found on that island is actually Peridot. Thus the term topaz in the Bible actually refers to the Peridot.
Natural Ruby is one of four “precious” gemstones (including Diamond, Emerald and Sapphire) known its rarity, monetary value, and hardness (second only to Diamond). Ruby is red Corundum, an aluminum oxide mineral with chromium responsible for its rich, red color. The name comes from the Latin word rubeus, meaning “red,” and until 1800 when Ruby was recognized as a variety of Corundum, red Spinels, Tourmalines, and Garnets were also believed to be Ruby. 