Heat treatment, or thermal enhancement, is one of the most common forms of treatment applied to many gemstones. Gemstone treaters have experimented with heating gems for well over one hundred years, but only within the last century have they achieved consistent results, especially within the past few decades. Heat with Additives. If solid materials are added in the heating process and become a part of the gem, it is labeled as a different treatment. This is the case with glass residues, diffusion, hybrid gems and lead glass-filled ruby, where the additional treatment must be clearly disclosed.
Some gemstones are bleached and then dyed, a form of “combination treatment.”. 1. The most commonly encountered bleached gems include: Jadeite jade – Jadeite is often bleached with acid to remove an unwanted brown component from the material. Aquamarine – Without treatment, much of the aquamarine is blue–green in coloration. Heating in a controlled environment can remove the greenish color component from the material to produce a more blue appearance. Citrine – Some forms of amethyst can be heated and turned into citrine.
Heat Treatment of Gemstones Rough tanzanite after (left), and before, heating to bring out blue color Consumer Information What is the story behind this treatment?: Heating of gemstones to enhance their color goes back centuries. It is considered a natural type of treatment since the process is basically a continuation of the processes that occur in the ground. 
Irradiation is a modern gemstone treatment, but it is also perhaps the oldest, naturally-occurring gem treatment. This is because there are natural sources of radiation in the earth. 
1. The most commonly encountered heat-treated gems include. Amber – When amber is submerged in hot oil—linseed oil for example—it's inherent body color can darken, and the material can take on a clearer appearance. The hot oil can also cause the material to develop a series of spangled, glittery inclusions. Aquamarine – Without treatment, much of the aquamarine is blue–green in coloration. Heating in a controlled environment can remove the greenish color component from the material to produce a more blue appearance. Citrine – Some forms of amethyst can be heated and turned into citrine.
It's a fact of life in the gemstone industry that many gems are treated. The most common form of treatment is heat treatment, which is applied routinely to ruby and sapphire, and to other gems such as tanzanite, blue zircon and blue apatite. While the popular blue zircon is heat treated, there are natural zircon gems that are not treated in any way. These include brown, rose, rose-orange and golden orange zircon gemstones. Note that yellow and white zircon is almost always heat treated. Zircon is valued especially for its brilliance and fire.
by Donald Clark, CSM IMG. Some gemstones are treated to improve their appearance. There are numerous treatments that can be applied to a gemstone to enhance its appearance and which treatments are used on a gem depends on the gemstone itself and the desired enhancement. Some of these treatment procedures are centuries old, while others are relatively new. Blue topaz is treated in a similar manner. In fact, it is a treatment that turns colorless topaz blue. This colorization is done in two steps. First, the rough is subjected to radiation to modify the sharing of electrons between certain atoms in the crystal structure. This turns the topaz brown.
Generally treatment of a gemstone is done by the cutter or lapidary. Since he makes the investment of buying the gems rough he wants the final product to be as salable as possible. Sometimes gemstones are treated as rough stones. 
The fact is, most gemstones used in jewelry have been treated to improve their appearance. That's not necessarily a negative, because treated gemstones can be a good choice -- they should be more affordable than untreated stones that achieve the same quality naturally. Are you familiar with common gemstone treatments? Do a little background reading before you buy -- some treatments are permanent, but others are not. A few methods commonly used to enhance gemstones: 1  Heat and radiation are often used to change or enhance gemstone colors. 2  Diffusion is used to deepen a gem's color, but it only intensifies a gemstone's outer layers.
Most items that you come in contact with every day have been treated in some way: Clothes have been dyed, houses have been painted, and most wood has been pressure treated. Gemstones are not any different. When a gemstone is forming deep within the earth, natural heating and pressure occur. 