Trypsin is produced in the pancreas as the inactive protease trypsinogen. Trypsin cleaves peptide chains mainly at the carboxyl side of the amino acids lysine or arginine, except when either is followed by proline. It is used for numerous biotechnological processes.
trypsin A proteinase (endopeptidase) enzyme that acts primarily on the interior bonds of proteins. It is produced in the pancreas as the inactive zymogen trypsinogen, which on secretion into the intestine is converted into the active form by the intestinal enzyme enterokinase. trypsin Digestive enzyme secreted by the pancreas. It is secreted in an inactive form that is converted into active trypsin by an enzyme in the small intestine. It breaks down peptide bonds on the amino acids lysine and arginine.
In the duodenum, trypsin catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptide bonds, breaking down proteins into smaller peptides. The peptide products are then further hydrolyzed into amino acids via other proteases, rendering them available for absorption into the blood stream. Trypsin cleaves peptide chains mainly at the carboxyl side of the amino acids lysine or arginine, except when either is followed by proline. It is used for numerous biotechnological processes.
Trypsin is part of the digestive system and degrades proteins, making it an enzyme known as a protease. It is initially formed as a larger, inactive molecule in the pancreas and is transported to the small intestine, where it is activated to digest food molecules. Trypsin degrades proteins in the digestive system. Cystic fibrosis is a painful, genetic disease that can lead to infections in the lungs. Trypsin is in a class known as serine proteases. The pancreas gland produces pancreatic elastase, a protein that aids in digestion.
trypsin An enzyme that digests proteins (see endopeptidase; protease). It is secreted in an inactive form (trypsinogen) by the pancreas into the duodenum. There, trypsinogen is acted on by an enzyme (enterokinase) produced in the brush border of the duodenum to yield trypsin. trypsin Digestive enzyme secreted by the pancreas. It is secreted in an inactive form that is converted into active trypsin by an enzyme in the small intestine. It breaks down peptide bonds on the amino acids lysine and arginine.
TRYPSIN Overview Information. Trypsin is an enzyme. An enzyme is a protein that speeds up a certain biochemical reaction. Trypsin is found in the small intestine. It can also be made from fungus, plants, and bacteria. But it is usually made for commercial purposes from the pancreas of livestock. 
trypsin, enzyme that acts to degrade protein; it is often referred to as a proteolytic enzyme, or proteinase. Trypsin is one of the three principal digestive proteinases, the other two being pepsin and chymotrypsin. In the digestive process, trypsin acts with the other proteinases to break down dietary protein molecules to their component peptides and amino acids. 
Definition of TRYPSIN. : a proteolytic enzyme that is secreted in the pancreatic juice in the form of trypsinogen, is activated in the duodenum, and is most active in a slightly alkaline medium. See trypsin defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
trypsin. a proteolytic enzyme formed in the intestine by the cleavage of trypsinogen by enterokinase. Trypsinogen enters the intestine as part of the intestinal juice. It is an endopeptidase that hydrolyzes peptides of arginine or lysine. trypsin fecal tests. see fecal trypsin. 
trypsin, enzyme that acts to degrade protein; it is often referred to as a proteolytic enzyme, or proteinase. Trypsin is one of the three principal digestive proteinases, the other two being pepsin and chymotrypsin. trypsin Digestive enzyme secreted by the pancreas. It is secreted in an inactive form that is converted into active trypsin by an enzyme in the small intestine. It breaks down peptide bonds on the amino acids lysine and arginine.