The noun PLACEHOLDER has 2 senses: 1. a person authorized to act for another. 2. a symbol in a logical or mathematical expression that can be replaced by the name of any member of specified set. Familiarity information: PLACEHOLDER used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. • PLACEHOLDER (noun).
placeholder (ˈpleɪsˌhəʊldə). ( 1 mathematics, logic) a symbol used in a logical or mathematical expression to represent another term or quantity that is not yet specified but may occupy that place later. 1 (mathematics, logic) a symbol used in a logical or mathematical expression to represent another term or quantity that is not yet specified but may occupy that place later. 2  a section of text that is placed in a document, etc temporarily until the final text is inserted there at a later stage
Placeholder may refer to: 1  Placeholder name, a term or terms referring to something or somebody whose name is not known or, in that particular context, is not significant or relevant. 1 Placeholder name, a term or terms referring to something or somebody whose name is not known or, in that particular context, is not significant or relevant. 2  Filler text, text generated to fill space or provide unremarkable and/or standardised tex
Factsheet: Zero as a placeholder. 1  N1/E3.1 count, read, write, order and compare numbers up to 1,000 in words and figures. 2  Shows the use of zero as a place holder. 
The zero is important in this number. The zero is called a placeholder. It’s not worth anything on its own, but it changes the value of other digits. In this case zero changes the number 52 to a much larger number 502. The zero placeholder is keeping the 5 and 2 in their correct places: The digit on the right of any whole number will always be in the units column. If there are no units there will be a zero in the units column. For example, in the number 20 there is a zero in the units column. Hundreds Tens Units 2 0
1 Trends. ( 2 mathematics, logic) a symbol used in a logical or mathematical expression to represent another term or quantity that is not yet specified but may occupy that place later. 1 (mathematics, logic) a symbol used in a logical or mathematical expression to represent another term or quantity that is not yet specified but may occupy that place later. 2  a section of text that is placed in a document, etc temporarily until the final text is inserted there at a later stage
noun. ( 1 mathematics, logic) a symbol used in a logical or mathematical expression to represent another term or quantity that is not yet specified but may occupy that place later. 1 (mathematics, logic) a symbol used in a logical or mathematical expression to represent another term or quantity that is not yet specified but may occupy that place later. 2  a section of text that is placed in a document, etc temporarily until the final text is inserted there at a later stage
Definition of PLACEHOLDER. : a symbol in a mathematical or logical expression that may be replaced by the name of any element of a set. See placeholder defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT