Definition of ORIENTALISM. 1. : something (as a style or manner) associated with or characteristic of Asia or Asians. 2. : scholarship or learning in Asian subjects or languages
In his introduction to the term “Orientalism,” Edward Said begins by paraphrasing the writing of a French journalist’s view of the present-day Orient in order to express the major common Western misconception about the East. 
Edward Said's signature contribution to academic life is the book Orientalism. It has been influential in about half a dozen established disciplines, especially literary studies (English, comparative literature), history, anthropology, sociology, area studies (especially middle east studies), and comparative religion. 
Orientalism. Orientalism is a term used by art historians and literary and cultural studies scholars for the imitation or depiction of aspects of Middle Eastern, and East Asian cultures by American and European writers, designers and artists.
Since the publication of Edward Said 's Orientalism in 1978, however, much academic discourse has used the term Orientalism in reference to a patronizing Western attitude towards Middle Eastern, Asian and North African societies. The term Occidentalism has sometimes been used to refer to negative or stereotypical views of the Western world found in Eastern societies. A particularly significant development is the manner in which Orientalism has taken shape in non-Western cinema, as for instance in Hindi cinema.
Orientalism refers to the Orient or East, in contrast to the Occident or West, and often, as seen by the West, often as “a form of radical realism”. Orient came into English from Middle French orient (the root word is oriēns, L). The term Occidentalism has sometimes been used to refer to negative or stereotypical views of the Western world found in Eastern societies. A particularly significant development is the manner in which Orientalism has taken shape in non-Western cinema, as for instance in Hindi cinema.
Noun. 1. Orientalism-the scholarly knowledge of Asian cultures and languages and people. Oriental Studies. arts, humanistic discipline, humanities, liberal arts-studies intended to provide general knowledge and intellectual skills (rather than occupational or professional skills); the college of arts and sciences. 2. orientalism-the quality or customs or mannerisms characteristic of Asian civilizations; orientalisms can be found in Mozart's operas. quality-an essential and distinguishing attribute of something or someone; the quality of mercy is not strained--Shakespeare.
The Orient is an integral part of European material civilization and culture. Orientalism expresses and represents that part culturally and even ideologically as a a mode of discourse with supporting institutions, vocabulary, scholarship, imagery, doctrines, even colonial bureaucracies and colonial styles. . . .
Orientalism is a term that is used by art historians, literary and cultural studies scholars for the imitation or depiction of aspects in Middle Eastern, South Asian, African and East Asian cultures (Eastern cultures). These depictions are usually done by writers, designers and artists from the West. The term Occidentalism has sometimes been used to refer to negative or stereotypical views of the Western world found in Eastern societies. A particularly significant development is the manner in which Orientalism has taken shape in non-Western cinema, as for instance in Hindi cinema.
The definition of the Orient and Orientalism. A. The definition of the Orient. 1. The Orient is the other for the West, which means the existence of the Orient is to be the contrasting image, idea, personality, experience (Introduction 2) for the West. 4. Depicting Foucault's theory of discourse: Orientalism as a discourse (Introduction 3), which means that European culture employs the systematic discipline to manage and even produce (Introduction 3) Orientalism. III. Orientalism is man-made and constructed by the West. A. .