1 Magma is molten rock that flows beneath the earth's surface. 2  Igneous rocks are formed by cooling magma. 3  The location of the formation of the rock, as well as how fast the magma cools will determine the type of igneous rock. 4  Intrusive rocks form from the cooling of magma deep beneath the earths surface. 1 The location of the formation of the rock, as well as how fast the magma cools will determine the type of igneous rock. 2  Intrusive rocks form from the cooling of magma deep beneath the earths surface. 3  Since this occurs below the earth's surface, the magma will cool very slowly. 4  As magma cools, it will form crystals.
1 Composition refers to what a rock is made of. 2  The color of a rock can provide a clue to the composition. 3  Fragments of other rocks, fossils, and identifiable mineral grains are also aspects of composition. 4  Texture is a description of the rock material. In most cases, we don't see a rock during its formation, so we rely on rocks observable clues to infer their formations. Two clues that indicate a rocks formation are its composition and texture. 1  Composition refers to what a rock is made of. 2  The color of a rock can provide a clue to the composition. 3  Fragments of other rocks, fossils, and identifiable mineral grains are also aspects of composition
1 Igneous rocks are formed by cooling magma. 2  The location of the formation of the rock, as well as how fast the magma cools will determine the type of igneous rock. 3  Intrusive rocks form from the cooling of magma deep beneath the earths surface. 4  Since this occurs below the earth's surface, the magma will cool very slowly. 1 The location of the formation of the rock, as well as how fast the magma cools will determine the type of igneous rock. 2  Intrusive rocks form from the cooling of magma deep beneath the earths surface. 3  Since this occurs below the earth's surface, the magma will cool very slowly. 4  As magma cools, it will form crystals.
BACKGROUND: Rocks are made of minerals. When the minerals are visible, they can be used to identify the rocks. However, many times you cannot distinguish minerals easily. There are other clues that you can use to help identify them.
The three main types, or classes, of rock are sedimentary, metamorphic, and igneous and the differences among them have to do with how they are formed. Sedimentary. Sedimentary rocks are formed from particles of sand, shells, pebbles, and other fragments of material. Examples of this rock type include gneiss and marble. Igneous. Igneous rocks are formed when magma (molten rock deep within the earth) cools and hardens. Sometimes the magma cools inside the earth, and other times it erupts onto the surface from volcanoes (in this case, it is called lava).
The characteristics related to grain size are known as a rock's texturecoarse-grained, fine-grained, and glassy are all descriptions of a rock's texture. The texture of igneous rocks can be analyzed to understand how the rock became solid or crystallized from liquid, melted rock. Describing Rock Textures. Your description of the rocks probably included their color and surface shape, plus characteristics such as size, shape, and arrangement of the grains or crystals in each rock.
Many different types of igneous rocks can be produced. The key factors to use in determining which rock you have are the rock's texture and composition. Texture. Texture relates to how large the individual mineral grains are in the final, solid rock. In most cases, the resulting grain size depends on how quickly the magma cooled.