show more aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, is required, along with ATP. Initially, the enzyme has an active site for ATPand another for the amino acid, but it is not able to attach the tRNA.
An aminoacyl tRNA synthetase (aaRS) is an enzyme that attaches the appropriate amino acid onto its tRNA. It does so by catalyzing the esterification of a specific cognate amino acid or its precursor to one of all its compatible cognate tRNAs to form an aminoacyl-tRNA. Once the tRNA is charged, a ribosome can transfer the amino acid from the tRNA onto a growing peptide, according to the genetic code. Aminoacyl tRNA therefore plays an important role in DNA translation, the expression of genes to create proteins
The answer: by means of transfer RNA molecules, each specific for one amino acid and for a particular triplet of nucleotides in messenger RNA (mRNA) called a codon. The family of tRNA molecules enables the codons in a mRNA molecule to be translated into the sequence of amino acids in the protein. 
One end of the tRNA contains an anticodon loop which pairs with a mRNA specifying a certain amino acid. The other end of the tRNA has the amino acid attached to the 3' OH group via an ester linkage. tRNA with an attached amino acid is said to be charged. The enzyme that attaches the amino acid to the 3'-OH is called an aminoacyl tRNA synthetase (aaRS). There is a specific tRNA for each amino acid, 20 in all. Similarly, there is a specific aaRS for each tRNA. 
1 Roles of mRNA, tRNA, rRNA. 2  mRNA (messenger RNA): contains codons that code for the peptide sequence. 3  tRNA (transfer RNA): contains the anticodon on the tip and the corresponding amino acid on the tail. 4  Link the correct amino acid to its corresponding mRNA codon through codon-anticodon interaction. 1 Both tRNA (transfer RNA) and rRNA (ribosomal RNA) are products of transcription. 2  However, they do not serve as the template of translation. 3  tRNA is responsible for bringing in the correct amino acid during translation. 4  rRNA makes up the ribosome, which is the enzyme responsible for
The YARS gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase. This enzyme is found in all cells, where it plays an important role in the production (synthesis) of proteins. 
There is generally a different Aminoacyl-tRNA Synthetase (aaRS) for each amino acid. Accurate translation of the genetic code depends on attachment of each amino acid to an appropriate tRNA. Each aaRS recognizes its particular amino acid and tRNAs coding for that amino acid. 
There are many different types of tRNA and each tRNA is recognised by a tRNA-activating enzyme. This enzyme binds a specific amino acid to the tRNA by using ATP as an energy source. The tRNA molecule has a specific structure. It contains double stranded sections (due to base pairing via hydrogen bonds) and loops. It has an anticodon loop which contains the anticodon and two other loops. Each enzyme will attach a specific amino acid to the tRNA which has the matching anticodon for that amino acid. When the amino acid binds to the tRNA molecule a high energy bond is created. The energy from this bond is used later on to bind the amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain during translation. Summary: