View full size image. The human heart is an organ that pumps blood throughout the body via the circulatory system, supplying oxygen and nutrients to the tissues and removing carbon dioxide and other wastes. Deoxygenated blood returns via veins to the venae cavae, re-entering the heart's right atrium. Of course, the heart is also a muscle, so it needs a fresh supply of oxygen and nutrients, too, Phillips said. The cardiovascular system circulates blood from the heart to the lungs and around the body via blood vessels.
The right side of the heart receives deoxygenated blood from the systemic veins and pumps it to the lungs for oxygenation. The left side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it through the systemic arteries to the tissues of the body. Coronary Circulation. The heart has its own set of blood vessels that provide the myocardium with the oxygen and nutrients necessary to pump blood throughout the body. The left and right coronary arteries branch off from the aorta and provide blood to the left and right sides of the heart.
blood. fluid pumped by the heart that circulates throughout the body via the arteries, veins, and capillaries (see circulatory system circulatory system,group of organs that transport blood and the substances it carries to and from all parts of the body. 
The left ventricle is the heart chamber that pumps blood throughout  the body. The right ventricle, in contrast, pumps blood to the  lungs. 
A. The heart is an amazing organ. It pumps oxygen and nutrient-rich blood throughout the body to sustain life. This fist-sized powerhouse beats (expands and contracts) 100,000 times per day, pumping five or six quarts of blood each minute, or about 2,000 gallons per day. 
The purpose of your heart is to pump blood to the organs and tissues of your body that need the oxygen and nutrients it carries. Oxygen-rich blood is pumped out of the left side of your heart (shown on the right in the diagram) into the arteries to these tissues and organs. The left ventricle relaxes and fills up with blood before squeezing and pumping the oxygen-rich blood through the aortic valve into the aorta — the main artery that carries blood to your body. The muscle wall of the left ventricle is very thick because it has to pump blood around the whole body.
The heart is a muscle that pumps blood throughout your body. The blood carries oxygen and nutrients that your body needs to work correctly. The function of the heart is simple. It keeps blood circulating throughout the body by: 1  Pumping blood through your lungs to make certain that the blood supply is constantly refreshed with oxygen and carbon dioxide is removed, and. 2  Pumping blood through your body to meet its demand for oxygen and nutrients.
The heart pumps oxygenated blood to the body and deoxygenated blood to the lungs. In the human heart there is one atrium and one ventricle for each circulation, and with both a systemic and a pulmonary circulation there are four chambers in total: left atrium, left ventricle, right atrium and right ventricle. The essential components of the human cardiovascular system are the heart, blood and blood vessels. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated; and the systemic circulation, a loop through the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). Coronary Circulation. The heart has its own set of blood vessels that provide the myocardium with the oxygen and nutrients necessary to pump blood throughout the body. The left and right coronary arteries branch off from the aorta and provide blood to the left and right sides of the heart.
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. The heart functions as a pump in the circulatory system to provide a continuous circulation of blood throughout the body. This circulation consists of the systemic circulation to and from the body and the pulmonary circulation to and from the lungs.