Enzymes allow certain industrial processes to be carried out at normal temperatures and pressures, thereby reducing the amount of energy and expensive equipment needed. Enzymes are also used in the home, for example, in 'biological' detergents. The table shows some common enzyme uses you should be familiar with. In industry, enzymes allow reactions that normally need expensive, energy-demanding equipment to happen at normal temperatures and pressures. On the other hand, most enzymes are denatured denature: disable by changing the normal qualities or nature of something at high temperatures.
Some household products use enzymes to speed up chemical reactions: enzymes in biological washing powders break down protein, starch or fat stains on clothes, and enzymes in meat tenderizer break down proteins into smaller molecules, making the meat easier to chew. 
Enzymes are biological molecules that catalyse (speed up) chemical reactions. Enzymes are specific—they will only work on particular molecules. For example, the enzyme sucrase will only bind with and break bonds in sucrose, not any other type of sugar. The rate of enzyme activity depends on the amount of enzyme present, and also the temperature and pH of the reaction solution. The most favourable pH for many enzymes is 6-8, around neutral, but there are exceptions: pepsin, a digestive enzyme in the stomach, works best at pH 2.
Lipase. Used-together with protease-in biological detergents to break down (digest) the substances in stains into smaller, water soluble substances. Carbohydrase. Used to convert starch syrup, which is relatively cheap, into sugar syrup, which is more valuable-for example, as an ingredient in sports drinks. Isomerase. In industry, enzymes allow reactions that normally need expensive, energy-demanding equipment to happen at normal temperatures and pressures. On the other hand, most enzymes are denatured denature: disable by changing the normal qualities or nature of something at high temperatures.
Use of enzymes in the home. Enzymes can be taken out of organisms, purified and then used in science and industry. One common use in the home is in biological washing powders. These contain amylase, lipases and proteases and break down any stains that contain carbohydrate, fat and protein. They therefore digest “biological” stains from the clothes. Many enzymes are used in the preparation of many different foods. For example, amylases which are present in yeast are used in brewing and baking to convert sugars into alcohol and carbon dioxide. Proteases are used in tenderising meat.
The Top Five Uses For Enzyme Cleaners in the Home. An enzyme hard at work! Enzymes are the tools of nature. They are present in all living things, where they perform the essential function of converting food to energy and creating new cell material. As catalysts, they speed up natural processes and create natural reactions that otherwise would not materialize or take a long time to complet
Enzymes are used in many different ways. In rural homes with septic tank sewer systems, the enzymes break down the waste products so that the tank doesn't have to be professionally emptied every few weeks. Enzymes are used in cooking with meat tenderizers. Enzymes are used in some contact lens disinfecting methods. 
Enzymes allow certain industrial processes to be carried out at normal temperatures and pressures, thereby reducing the amount of energy and expensive equipment needed. Enzymes are also used in the home, for example, in 'biological' detergents. 
Enzyme proteins are only active when the specified substrate is present. The various types of actions can be categorized into specific enzyme classes. The most common enzyme types used in the Household care industry are proteases, amylases, lipase, cellulases, mannanases, and pectinases. Each type may have many variations of the same protein structure that results in different preferences for conditions for peak performance. The building blocks for each enzyme are the 20 naturally occurring amino acids. Enzymes are commonly used in paper processing, food manufacture, medical device cleaning, ethanol manufacture, as well as many common household cleaning processes such as laundry and dishwashing.
How enzymes work for you Enzymes are used in a variety of the everyday products you use. And it's good for the environment as enzymes can replace chemicals and minimize energy consumption. Page ContentWhy we need enzymes Even though you may not be aware of it, enzymes play a very active role in your everyday life. 