A normal aortic valve (see below) has three leaflets (also known as flaps or cusps). These open and close to control the flow of blood into the aorta from the left ventricle of the heart as it beats. When the flaps come together as the valve closes, the shape is like a circle divided into thirds.
Bicuspid aortic disease occurs when a defect is present in the valve that opens and shuts to allow blood flow from the heart through the aorta. While the defective valve may be easy to see, the defect also causes changes in the tissues of the aorta and the heart.
The aortic valve allows oxygen-rich blood to flow from the heart to the aorta. It prevents the blood from flowing back from the aorta into the heart when the pumping chamber relaxes. Bicuspid aortic valve is present at birth (congenital).
the valve between the left atrium and left ventricle of the heart, consisting of two triangular flaps of tissue, that prevents blood from flowing back into the atrium when the ventricle contracts. Also called bicuspid valve. Compare tr
The bicuspid valve, also known as the mitral valve, is a structure in the left side of the heart that controls the flow of oxygenated blood.
A bicuspid aortic valve is an aortic valve that only has two leaflets, instead of three. The aortic valve regulates blood flow from the heart into the aorta, the major blood vessel that brings blood to the body.
bicuspid (also called mitral) is on the left and tricuspid is on the right. the bicuspid connects the left atrium to the left ventricle and the tricuspid connects the right atrium to the right ventricle.
The bicuspid, or mitral valve (also called the left atrioventricular valve), is located between the left atrium and left ventricle. It prevents any backward flow of blood duri … ng contractions of the
The normal aortic valve, as shown in the drawing, has three leaflets (flaps, cusps) that move flexibly, opening and closing to control the flow of blood into the aorta from the left ventricle of the heart as it beats. When the cusps come together as the valve closes, the shape is that of a trisected circle.
The bicuspid aortic valve may not be completely effective at stopping blood from leaking back into the heart. This is called aortic regurgitation. The aortic valve may also become stiff and not open up as well, causing the heart to have to pump harder than usual to get blood past the valve (aortic stenosis).