Sections 207.049(1) and (2) of the Texas Unemployment Compensation Act state that a claimant will be disqualified from receiving unemployment benefits for any benefit period in which he is receiving wages in lieu of notice or severance pay.
1 For example, an employer may have a company policy that a terminating employee is entitled to one month’s wages for every year of service. 2  Those wages are severance pay. 3  Wages in lieu of notice are additional wages that the employer is not obligated to pay.
Most employers designate any post-employment wages paid to ex-employees as severance pay, but for purposes of unemployment compensation, it is important to determine whether the payments are actually severance pay or are wages in lieu of notice..
Oftentimes, a “termination package” will use the terms “notice” (“pay in lieu of notice” or “termination pay”) and “severance” interchangeably, although they are technically distinct.
1 Although the Labor Code does not define the terms “severance pay” or “wages in lieu of notice,” the courts have generally defined severance pay to be a payment the employer has obligated itself to make, either verbally or in writing, which is based upon a set formula, such as length of prior service.
1 Those wages are severance pay. 2  Wages in lieu of notice are additional wages that the employer is not obligated to pay. 3  They are paid only because the employer has chosen not to give the employee notice of termination in advance of the date of termination.
The fact that the words 'severance' are used is not controlling.. A payment is not to be considered as in-lieu-of-notice pay, when the payment was contingent upon the recommendation of his supervisor and approval of the manager. For example, an employer elects to terminate one of his employees.
1 Most employers designate any post-employment wages paid to ex-employees as severance pay. 2  For purposes of unemployment compensation, however, it is important to know that such payments may not be severance at all, but rather, wages in lieu of notice.
severance/wages in lieu of notice-the employer should decide whether to pay such post-termination pay in installments or in a lump sum. Texas allows either method. Under the Texas Payday Law, severance pay is not owed unless it is promised in a written policy.
In-lieu-of-notice pay is wages. A payment should not be viewed as in lieu of notice unless the employer has a collective bargaining agreement, a written plan or a clearly established policy that employees are entitled to advance notice in the event of a layoff, or are entitled to payment in the event no notice if given.