DBA stands for Doing Business As. It is an abbreviation for a business name or trade name. So, if my business name is The 3 Maskateers, this name would be my doing business as name, namely the DBA. Hence, the saying, if you have a trade name, you will need to register it with a DBA certificate. 
DBA stands for doing business as and is an official registration of your business name. In some states, this can be referred to as a fictitious business name or assumed name. DBA registration is important when you want to conduct business or accept money under a name other than your own, and can be used to create an alternate name for another business that has already been filed. It is also important when creating a business bank account, as most banks generally require it.
DBA stands for doing business as ... . It's used to allow a company to operate under a different brand name than the name used to incorporate. Here are some famous examples: - General Motors, dba, Pontiac. - Yum Brands, dba, Kentucky Fried Chicken, or dba, KFC. 
DBA stands for doing business as.. A DBA is essentially a name a person or business uses other than their official name in order to transact business. For example, if John Doe wants to name his lawn mowing business Integrity Landscaping, he could register a DBA and start to conduct business as Integrity Landscaping. Using a DBA allows you to conduct several business functions using the assumed name. For example, having a DBA lets you open bank accounts with your business name on them, receive and cash checks in your business' name, and use the business name on contracts.
If you are operating a business under your own name, or legal name of your partnership or corporation, you do not need to register a DBA. If the name of the business is not identical, however, it is a fictitious name. Legal Requirements. In order to operate a business under a fictitious name, you must register that name with the clerk of court in the county where you are operating, or with the agency responsible for keeping track of businesses operating in your state.
In the business world, DBA-which stands for doing business as - is a vitally important acronym to know. It signifies that an individual or company is doing business under a fictitious name. One common example would be a chain store franchise, operated under a commercial name familiar to everyone but actually run by an individual or firm owning the local franchise. Legal Requirements. In order to operate a business under a fictitious name, you must register that name with the clerk of court in the county where you are operating, or with the agency responsible for keeping track of businesses operating in your state.
Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. The term DBA stands for Doing Business As and describes the act of using an assumed or fictitious name for business purposes. DBAs are used for many reasons, by many types of business owners and freelance professionals. Some use DBAs to maintain personal privacy. 
Doing business as (DBA) is a term that is used in today’s business industry in regards to the liability and formal actions that are taken by a particular company. Doing business as means that the company is working under a fictitious name, concealing its true identity. Use DBA Forms or Fictitious Name forms for your state to register the DBA name. However, for owners and proprietors in Arkansas who are looking into a doing business as name, they have to file for a Doing Business As Name Certificate.
Definition of a DBA. Sometimes it makes sense for a company to do business under a different name. To do this, the company has to file what's know as a DBA— an abbreviation for  doing business as.  A DBA is also known as a  fictitious business name ,  trade name , or  assumed name .. O nce your DBA registration is complete, the company can use the secondary name to open bank accounts, write checks, and enter contracts. 
DBA is an abbreviation for the term “doing business as,” and it refers to the name that a business uses. For example, if Joe Gomes wants to name his plumbing business Speedy Plumbing, that name would be his DBA. Other terms for DBA include fictitious name, assumed name, and trade name.. 