In Lagrange's notation, the derivative with respect to x of a function f(x) is denoted f‍ '​(x) (read as f prime of x) or fx‍ '​(x) (read as f prime x of x), in case of ambiguity of the variable implied by the derivation. Lagrange's notation is sometimes incorrectly attributed to Newton. The derivative of a function f(x) of a variable x is a measure of the rate at which the value of the function changes with respect to the change of the variable. It is called the derivative of f with respect to x.
The derivative of a function of a real variable measures the sensitivity to change of a quantity (a function value or dependent variable) which is determined by another quantity (the independent variable). Derivatives are a fundamental tool of calculus. The derivative of a function f(x) of a variable x is a measure of the rate at which the value of the function changes with respect to the change of the variable. It is called the derivative of f with respect to x.
derivation. n. 1. the act of deriving or state of being derived. 2. (Linguistics) the source, origin, or descent of something, such as a word. 3. something derived; a derivative. 4. (Mathematics). a. the process of deducing a mathematical theorem, formula, etc, as a necessary consequence of a set of accepted statements. 1. a. The act or process of deriving. b. The state or fact of being derived; origination: a custom of recent derivation. c. Something derived; a derivative. 2. The form or source from which something is derived; an origin.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from Derivation (linguistics)). In linguistics, morphological derivation is the process of forming a new word on the basis of an existing word, e.g. happiness and unhappy from the root word happy, or determination from determine. Derivation that results in a noun may be called nominalization. This may involve the use of an affix (as with happy → happiness, employ → employee), or may occur via conversion (as with the derivation of the noun run from the verb to run).
Full Definition of DERIVATION. 1. a (1) : the formation of a word from another word or base (as by the addition of a usually noninflectional affix) (2) : an act of ascertaining or stating the derivation of a word (3) : etymology 1 b: the relation of a word to its base. 2. a: source, origin b: descent, origination. 3. : something derived: derivative. Definition of DERIVATION for Kids. 1. : the formation of a word from an earlier word or root. 2. : etymology. 3. 4. : an act or process by which one thing is formed from another.
In linguistics, derivation is the process of forming a new word on the basis of an existing word, e.g. happiness and unhappy from happy, or determination from determine. It often involves the addition of a morpheme in the form of an affix, such as-ness, un-and-ation in the preceding examples. derivation (Noun). The act of tracing origin or descent, as in grammar or genealogy; as, the derivation of a word from an Indo-European root. derivation (Noun). The state or method of being derived; the relation of origin when established or asserted.
Definition. Derivation is the formation of a new word or inflectable stem from another word or stem. It typically occurs by the addition of an affix. The derived word is often of a different word class from the original. It may thus take the inflectional affixes of the new word class. In contrast to inflection, derivation. 1  is not obligatory. 2  typically produces a greater change of meaning from the original form, and. 3  is more likely to result in a form which has a somewhat idiosyncratic meaning. 4  often changes the grammatical category of a root.
Full Definition of DERIVATIVE. 1. : a word formed by derivation. 2. : something derived. 3. : the limit of the ratio of the change in a function to the corresponding change in its independent variable as the latter change approaches zero. 4. 