Animal cells do not undergo photosynthesis, but in a plant cell, the site of photosynthesis is the chloroplast. Prokaryotes are more primitive-they have no nucleus for a start, and also have no chloroplasts. They are bacterial cells and so do not undergo photosynthesis. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Actually, some procaryotes have photosynthesis. The thing is, as they don't have organelles, it doesn't occur in a differentiated structure, like choroplasts in eucaryotes. It happens along the plasma membrane.
The thylakoid is the site of oxygenic photosynthesis in eukaryotic plants and algae, and in prokaryotic Cyanobacteria. Cyanobacteria possess thylakoid membranes, but as prokaryotes they do not contain chloroplasts. 
In eukaryotic plants, photosynthesis takes place within the chloroplasts, and respiration in the mitochondria. In prokaryotes such as bacteria, it is not necessary to have specific organelles devoted to these functions as, again, the cells are so small. Posted on. (Answer #1). Bacteria are prokaryotes--their genetic material is not contained within a nucleus. Because they are also so small, it is easier to get the necessary products of photosynthesis and respiration to all parts of the (one-celled) organism, than it is in eukaryotes.
In order for photosynthesis to occur, the organelle chloroplast is needed. Eukaryotic cells (typically plants) do contain chloroplasts which the plant can use to make food. However, there are several prokaryotic organisms such as the purple bacteria that contains a different kind of chlorophyll and can photosynthesize
Photosynthesis Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed. 
PHOTOSYNTHESIS. Life on Earth is solar-powered. The chloroplasts of plants capture light energy that has traveled 160 million kilometers from the sun and convert it to chemical energy stored in sugar and other organic molecules. The process is called photosynthesis. Survey. 
photosyntnesis in eukaryotes, is manifested by some photosynthetic bacteria in their cell walls, or in the cytoplasms, while in prokaryotes, photosynthesis is not commonly see, because prokaryotes are not capable of producing their own food, in general perhaps. alfredcacal · 8 years ago. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Actually, some procaryotes have photosynthesis. The thing is, as they don't have organelles, it doesn't occur in a differentiated structure, like choroplasts in eucaryotes. It happens along the plasma membrane.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. 