Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) occurs naturally in foods such as citrus fruit, tomatoes, potatoes, and leafy vegetables. Ascorbic acid is important for bones and connective tissues, muscles, and blood vessels. Vitamin C also helps the body absorb iron, which is needed for red blood cell production. Ascorbic acid is used to treat and prevent vitamin C deficiency. Ask a doctor or pharmacist about using ascorbic acid if you have kidney disease or a history of kidney stones, liver disease (especially cirrhosis), or an enzyme deficiency called glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency (G6PD). It is not known whether ascorbic acid is harmful to an unborn baby or a nursing baby.
USES: Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is used to prevent or treat low levels of vitamin C in people who do not get enough of the vitamin from their diets. Most people who eat a normal diet do not need extra ascorbic acid. Low levels of vitamin C can result in a condition called scurvy. Scurvy may cause symptoms such as rash, muscle weakness, joint pain, tiredness, or tooth loss.Vitamin C plays an important role in the body. It is needed to maintain the health of skin, cartilage, teeth, bone, and blood vessels. It is also used to protect your body's cells from damage
Folbee Plus is a brand name for the dietary supplement that contains Vitamin B Complex, Vitamin C, Biotin and Folic Acid it is for patients with high blood levels of homocysteine or kidney failure, or those who are on dialysis or do not receive the proper amount of vitamins from their diet. 
Ascorbic acid (vitamin c) is freely soluble in water; sparingly soluble in alcohol; insoluble in chloroform, in ether, and in benzene. The chemical name of ascorbic acid (vitamin c) is L-ascorbic acid (vitamin c) . The empirical formula is C6H806, and the molecular weight is 176.13. The structure is as follows: Ascorbic Acid (vitamin c) Injection is a sterile solution. Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is a water-soluble vitamin. It occurs as a white or slightly yellow crystal or powder with a slight acidic taste. It is an antiscorbutic product.
Drug Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C). The generic Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) combination is manufactured by 15 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name.
Vitamin C is a cofactor in at least eight enzymatic reactions, including several collagen synthesis reactions that, when dysfunctional, cause the most severe symptoms of scurvy. In animals, these reactions are especially important in wound-healing and in preventing bleeding from capillaries. Ascorbic acid or vitamin C is a common enzymatic cofactor in mammals used in the synthesis of collagen. Ascorbate is a powerful reducing agent capable of rapidly scavenging a number of reactive oxygen species (ROS).
Drug Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C). The generic Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) is manufactured by 14 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. Please also note that Medindia's database currently has 16 Brands of Generics of Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) listed. New generics are constantly being updated.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is a water-soluble vitamin. It occurs as a white or slightly yellow crystal or powder with a slight acidic taste. It is an antiscorbutic product. On exposure to light, it gradually darkens. In the dry state, it is reasonably stable in air, but in solution it rapidly oxidizes
Tablet and capsule sizes range from 25 mg to 1500 mg. Vitamin C (as ascorbic acid) crystals are typically available in bottles containing 300 g to 1 kg of powder (a 5 ml teaspoon of vitamin C crystals equals 5,000 mg). Ascorbic acid or vitamin C is a common enzymatic cofactor in mammals used in the synthesis of collagen. Ascorbate is a powerful reducing agent capable of rapidly scavenging a number of reactive oxygen species (ROS).
The name 'vitamin C' always refers to the L-enantiomer of ascorbic acid and its oxidized forms. The opposite D-enantiomer called D-ascorbate has equal antioxidant power, but is not found in nature, and has no physiological significance. Ascorbic acid or vitamin C is a common enzymatic cofactor in mammals used in the synthesis of collagen. Ascorbate is a powerful reducing agent capable of rapidly scavenging a number of reactive oxygen species (ROS).