1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 2
Report Abuse. Well this is how i do mine Put the sausages in a roasting tin and place them in a medium oven (gas mark 4 or 180 degrees) for 35 to 45 minutes. Baking can dry the sausages so baste them in the juices 2 or 3 times during cooking. 
Look for clear juices or cut into one sausage to make sure it is thoroughly cooked with no pinkness remaining. Saute onions, peppers and garlic in 2 tbsp. of olive oil while the sausages roast. Cook the vegetables on medium heat for 5 to 6 minutes until they are tender. Add salt, pepper, tomato sauce and 2 tbsp. water. A pan of sliced sausage on a table. Photo Credit sanapadh/iStock/Getty Images. With close to 200 varieties of sausages worldwide and a history of 3,000 years, it’s clear that sausages have an unbeatable appeal. When it comes to sausages, many kinds of cooking result in a juicy, flavorful result.
Directions. 1  Preheat the oven to 400°F. 2  Place sausages in a roasting pan. 3  Add the peppers, onions, garlic, and salt and pepper. 4  Drizzle with olive oil. 5  Roast the sausages for approximately I hour, turning occasionally, until they are nicely browned. 1 Preheat the oven to 400°F. 2  Place sausages in a roasting pan. 3  Add the peppers, onions, garlic, and salt and pepper. 4  Drizzle with olive oil. 5  Roast the sausages for approximately I hour, turning occasionally, until they are nicely browned. 6  Arrange on a platter and serve
1 Remove the sausage from the refrigerator 10 – 15 minutes before cooking to remove the chill from the meat. 2  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). 3  Layer the baking pan with aluminum foil or parchment paper. 4  Place the sausages evenly on the cooking sheet. Baking sausage is simple. 1  Remove the sausage from the refrigerator 10 – 15 minutes before cooking to remove the chill from the meat. 2  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). 3  Layer the baking pan with aluminum foil or parchment paper.
How to Cook Sausages in the Oven. A pan of sliced sausage on a table. Photo Credit sanapadh/iStock/Getty Images. With close to 200 varieties of sausages worldwide and a history of 3,000 years, it’s clear that sausages have an unbeatable appeal. When it comes to sausages, many kinds of cooking result in a juicy, flavorful result.
Skillet. Spray a skillet with cooking spray. Add sausage. Cook over medium-high heat until browned, about 5 minutes, turning links often. Reduce heat to medium-low. Carefully add ½ cup water to skillet. Cover and simmer for 12 minutes or until internal link temperature reaches 160°F. 
Place the sausage links on the baking sheet. Line them up side by side, leaving space in between each link. Space the links apart as evenly as possible. 3. Cook the sausages in the preheated oven. Place the baking sheet on the middle rack of the oven to ensure even cooking. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes. 1  Note that thicker sausages may need to bake longer. 2  Extremely large or thick links may need to be baked anywhere from 40 to 60 minutes. 3  If cooking them this long, however, you should turn the sausages at least once.