Aortic Valve Disease. The aortic valve is one of four valves in the heart. A properly functioning aortic valve ensures unidirectional blood flow out of the heart to the rest of the body. The aortic valve is housed within the aortic root, which is the aortic valve's structural support and is the first portion of the aorta, the largest artery in the body that delivers blood to the entire body.
Bicuspid aortic valve disease is a type of congenital valve disease that affects the aortic valve. The valve has two leaflets (cusps) instead of three. Without the third leaflet, the valve may be: 1  stenotic-stiff valve leaflets that can not open or close properly. 2  leaky-not able close tightly (regurgitant). In the valvular heart disease condition valvular stenosis, the tissues forming the valve leaflets become stiffer, narrowing the valve opening and reducing the amount of blood that can flow through it. If the narrowing is mild, the overall functioning of the heart may not be reduced.
Aortic valve disease: Introduction. Any damage or impairment of the aortic valve which is one of four heart valves and controls the flow of blood from the heart into the aorta which supplies the rest of the body with blood.
Aortic valve disease is a condition in which the valve between the main pumping chamber of your heart (left ventricle) and the main artery to your body (aorta) doesn't work properly. Aortic valve disease sometimes may be a condition present at birth (congenital heart disease), or it may result from other causes. Types of aortic valve disease include: 1  Aortic valve stenosis. 2  In this condition, the aortic valve opening is narrowed. 3  This narrowing prevents the valve from opening fully, which obstructs blood flow from your heart into your aorta and the rest of your body. 4  Aortic valve regurgitation
Bicuspid Aortic Valve. Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) affects approximately one to two percent of people. It is the most common congenital heart disorder, impacting both the aortic valve (which controls the flow of blood into the aorta) and the thoracic aorta (the major vessel that sends blood throughout the body). About nine percent of people with BAV have relatives with the disease, so family screening is important.
Types of Aortic Valve Disorders. There are a few types of aortic valve disorder. 1  Aortic valve stenosis is a narrowing or obstruction of the valve. 2  As shown below, the flaps on the valve cannot open widely enough for sufficient blood to pass. 3  This condition accounts for the largest number of surgeries to correct a damaged heart valve
There are a few types of aortic valve disorder. 1  Aortic valve stenosis is a narrowing or obstruction of the valve. 2  The second type of malfunction is aortic regurgitation. There are a few types of aortic valve disorder. 1  Aortic valve stenosis is a narrowing or obstruction of the valve. 2  As shown below, the flaps on the valve cannot open widely enough for sufficient blood to pass.
Heart valve disease occurs if one or more of your heart valves don't work well. The heart has four valves: the tricuspid (tri-CUSS-pid), pulmonary (PULL-mun-ary), mitral (MI-trul), and aortic (ay-OR-tik) valves. These valves have tissue flaps that open and close with each heartbeat. 
Aortic stenosis is a narrowing or blockage of the aortic valve that happens when the valve leaflets become coated with deposits. The deposits change the shape of the leaflets and reduce blood flow through the valve. Two diseases of the aortic valve are regurgitation and stenosis. Aortic regurgitation. Aortic regurgitation is also called aortic insufficiency or aortic incompetence. It is a condition in which blood flows backward from a widened or weakened aortic valve into the heart's lower chamber (the left ventricle).
Any damage or impairment of the aortic valve which is one of four heart valves and controls the flow of ... 