Yes. According to the Companies Act every company must have at least one Director. As of October 2008 companies with only one director must appoint a natural person as the director and not a corporate director. Companies can have just one director and no company secretary as permitted by the Companies Act 2006
Nominee shareholder is a person nominated by the member of an OPC to become the member of the company in the event of the Member’s death or his incapacity to contract. Initially the subscriber to the memorandum shall nominate another person as his/her nominee and the nomination can be changed at any time by the Member. Only an individual who is an Indian citizen and resident in India can become nominee for the sole member of a One Person Company. 
It is provided in section 92 of The Companies Act, 2013, that the annual returns in the case of One Person Company shall be signed by the company secretary or where there is no company secretary, then by the director of the company. 1 Succession-In an OPC there is a nominee designated by the member. 2  The nominee which will be a Natural Born citizen of India and who resides in India. 3  The nominee shall in the event of death of the member become a member of the company and will be responsible for the running
1 Minor cannot shall become member or nominee of the One Person Company or can hold share with beneficial interest. 2  An OPC cannot be incorporated or converted into a company under Section 8 of the Act. [ 3 Company not for Profit]. Only a natural person, who is an Indian citizen and resident in India shall be eligible to incorporate a One Person Company. Explanation: The term Resident in India means a person who has stayed in India for a period of not less than 182 days during the immediately preceding one calendar year.2.
A private company that is not a subsidiary of a public company can, by its Articles, provides that a person shall be disqualified for appointment as a Director on any grounds in addition to those specified in the Companies Act. In a private company, which is not a subsidiary of a public company, the Articles can prescribe the manner of appointment of any or all the Directors. In case the Articles are silent, the Directors must be appointed by the shareholders.
A person who is already a Managing Director / Manager of a public company or a private company subsidiary of a public company can become the Managing Director / Manager of only one other company (whether private or public) with the prior unanimous approval of the Board of such company. In a private company, which is not a subsidiary of a public company, the Articles can prescribe the manner of appointment of any or all the Directors. In case the Articles are silent, the Directors must be appointed by the shareholders.
1 Board Meetings and Directors Section149, 152 & 173 of the Act. 2  One Person Company needs to have one director. 3  It can have maximum of 15 directors which can also be increased by passing a special resolution as in case of any other company. 1 Succession-In an OPC there is a nominee designated by the member. 2  The nominee which will be a Natural Born citizen of India and who resides in India. 3  The nominee shall in the event of death of the member become a member of the company and will be responsible for the running of the company.
Full Nominee Structure. In cases where a full nominee structure is applied when setting up a company (director, secretary and shareholder), the same rules which state that where there is a sole director, the secretary would have to be another separate person or company also apply. Using a Nominee Director to Protect Identity. The principle reason why a nominee director is typically used in a company would be to protect the identity of the person who wishes to run the business. Nominee directors are often used in conjunction with a nominee secretary and a nominee shareholder. This is because there would be little point of protecting the identity of the person running the company if that same person was shown as the sole or major shareholder