It was the first planet discovered since ancient times. March 13, 1781. The 7th planet – Uranus – was discovered on this date, completely by accident. British astronomer William Herschel was performing a survey of all the stars that were of magnitude 8 – in other words, too faint to see with the eye – or brighter. Bottom line: British astronomer William Herschel discovered the planet Uranus – first planet to be discovered since ancient times – on
Uranus, which was discovered by Sir William Herschel Prior to the invention of the telescope, the only known planets were Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Ura … nus was the first planet discovered by telescope. 46 people found this useful. Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn have been known, or at least seen since man first looked up into the sky. Uranus was also visible with the naked eye, but was probably … not recognised as a planet by our early observers.  With the invention of telescopes, other planets were later discovered.
The discovery marks the next important milestone in the ultimate search for planets like Earth. The new planets are thought to be rocky. Kepler-20e is slightly smaller than Venus, measuring 0.87 times the radius of Earth. Kepler-20f is a bit larger than Earth, measuring 1.03 times its radius. Both planets reside in a five-planet system called Kepler-20, approximately 1,000 light-years away in the constellation Lyra. Kepler-20e orbits its parent star every 6.1 days and Kepler-20f every 19.6 days.
Uranus was discovered by Sir William Herschel in 1781. Herschel was probably the most famous astronomer of the 18th century. In addition to discovering the planet Uranus, he also observed and cataloged over 800 double stars and 2,500 nebulae. Pluto was discovered by astronomer Clyde Tombaugh in 1930. A 9th planet had been looked for for some time. It was believed that such a planet had to exist in order to explain some odd things happening in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune. Tombaugh did a careful sky survey at the Lowell Observatory in Arizona
For the first time, scientists have discovered an Earth-size alien planet in the habitable zone of its host star, an Earth cousin that just might have liquid water and the right conditions for life. So, while it's not an Earth twin, it is perhaps an Earth cousin. It has similar characteristics, but a different parent. [ 10 Exoplanets That Could Host Alien Life ]. This artist illustration shows the planet Kepler-186f, the first Earth-size alien planet discovered in the habitable zone of its star.
1 HD 69830: Has a planetary system with three Neptune-mass planets. 2  It is the first triple planetary system without any Jupiter-like planets discovered around a Sun-like star. 3  All three planets were announced on May 18 by Lovis. 1 These discoveries indicated that low-mass planets that orbit around nearby stars are very common. 61 Virginis is the first star like the Sun to host the super-Earth planets. 2  GJ 1214 b: On December 16, a super-Earth planet was discovered by transit.
Answer: Only 3 of the 9 planets in our solar system have official discoverers and times of discovery. The reason is simple-all of the other planets are easily seen by the unaided human eye. Pluto was discovered by astronomer Clyde Tombaugh in 1930. A 9th planet had been looked for for some time. It was believed that such a planet had to exist in order to explain some odd things happening in the orbits of Uranus and Neptune. Tombaugh did a careful sky survey at the Lowell Observatory in Arizona
- NASA's Kepler mission has discovered the first Earth-size planets orbiting a sun-like star outside our solar system. Kepler-20f is a bit larger than Earth, measuring 1.03 times its radius. Both planets reside in a five-planet system called Kepler-20, approximately 1,000 light-years away in the constellation Lyra. Kepler-20e orbits its parent star every 6.1 days and Kepler-20f every 19.6 days.
This is an historic discovery of the first truly Earth-size planet found in the habitable zone around its star, Geoff Marcy, an astronomer at the University of California, Berkeley, who is unaffiliated with the research, told Space.com via email. So, while it's not an Earth twin, it is perhaps an Earth cousin. It has similar characteristics, but a different parent. [ 10 Exoplanets That Could Host Alien Life ]. This artist illustration shows the planet Kepler-186f, the first Earth-size alien planet discovered in the habitable zone of its star.