Softwood comes from Coniferous trees and hardwood comes from Deciduous trees. Coniferous trees have needles, deciduous trees have leaves. Coniferous never completely shed their needles, while deciduous trees shed their leaves in autumn for the winter (and grow new ones in the spring). Coniferous trees stay green all year round, also known as evergreens.
Coniferous trees are trees that produce cones to carry seeds. They also have needles. These features protect trees through the cold, dry winters of the subarctic climates. Moi … st temperature climates support thick forests of deciduous trees, or trees that lose their leaves in the fall. Coniferous never completely shed their needles, while deciduous trees shed their leaves in autumn for the winter (and grow new ones in the spring). Coniferous trees stay green all year round, also known as evergreens.
While trees of all varieties have some things in common such as a trunk and branches, there are many different varieties of trees found in the U. S. Each of the species have unique characteristics and traits from other trees. Trees are basically classified into two different categories: coniferous and deciduous trees. Coniferous trees are essentially cone-bearing trees. Trees that fall into this category include pine trees, redwood trees, spruce trees, cedar trees, Douglas fir trees and many other types of trees. 
Conifers grow into some of the world's largest trees. From dwarf mugo pine (Pinus mugo) to giant sequoia (Sequoiadendron giganteumand), coniferous trees have stood since dinosaurs roamed a tropical Earth over 200 million years ago. Conifers are gymnosperms, plants that reproduce on the surface of leaves or form cones. Dwarf Conifer Trees. Considering the size to which many conifers grow, dwarf trees fill the need for evergreens that fit small spaces such as rock gardens. They are single-trunk trees that grow at rates from 1/2 to 6 inches a year. Dwarf or semidwarf trees might stand less than 6 feet tall after 10 years of growth.
Coniferous. (kahn-IH-ferr-us). Coniferous trees bear their seeds in cones and have very narrow or overlapping leaves. All of Minnesota's coniferous trees except the larches are evergreens, meaning that they maintain their leaves throughout the year. 
A conifer is a tree belonging to the cone bearing order Coniferales. These trees have needles or scale-like leaves and are very different from hardwood trees which have broad, flat leaves and usually without cones. You can easily identify a conifer from a hardwood. 
Coniferous Trees. Coniferous trees are often referred to as evergreens, and the name is associated with trees that have needles instead of broad, flat leaves. Although this is true in many cases, it isn't always true. A coniferous tree is any tree that reproduces via cones. Deciduous Coniferous Trees. Some coniferous trees are also deciduous. Some, such as larch and tamarack (Larix spp.), have needles and cones but also lose their leaves in the fall. These trees typically grow wild in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 2 through 6
Coniferous trees are trees that produce cones to carry seeds. They also have needles. These features protect trees through the cold, dry winters of the subarctic climates. Moi … st temperature climates support thick forests of deciduous trees, or trees that lose their leaves in the fall. Softwood comes from Coniferous trees and hardwood comes from Deciduous trees. … Coniferous trees have needles, deciduous trees have leaves. Coniferous never completely shed their needles, while deciduous trees shed their leaves in autumn for the winter (and grow new ones in the spring).
Coniferous trees are the most common type of what are known as gymnosperms: plants that produce seeds on the surface of cones. Collectively known as softwood trees, some have strong, tough wood while other conifer wood is soft and less fibrous. All conifers bear cones and have needles or scalelike foliage. Often referred to as evergreens, not all conifers retain their leaves year-round. There are hundreds of different coniferous trees, but most of them fall into several main groups.