Parapelvic cysts, also called peripelvic cysts, are uncommon conditions where these cysts are located on, or probably originate in, the hilus of the kidney in close proximity to the pelvis and major calyces. Most often, parapelvic cysts are due to congenital factors and occur above 50 years old. 
Kidney cyst. Kidney cysts are round pouches of fluid that form on or in the kidneys. Kidney cysts can be associated with serious disorders that may impair kidney function. But more commonly, kidney cysts are a type called simple kidney cysts — noncancerous cysts that rarely cause complications. 
Treatment Options for Parapelvic Cysts. Parapelvic cyst is a kind of benign kidney lesion and it belongs to simple kidney cyst. Most kidney cysts are located at the renal cortical areas, being round and it can be single or multiple. Parapelvic cyst is located inside the renal sinus and large ones can protrude into renal hilum. 
Difference. 1. Parapelvic cysts. Parapelvic Cyst is disease in which cyst develops in the kidney sinus or kidney pelvis. 2. Renal cortical cyst. The cortical cyst refers to a very common type of kidney cyst. Because it is located at the renal cortex, it is called the cortical cyst. 
Parapelvic cysts of the kidneys are simple renal cysts, which are adjacent to the renal pelvis or the renal sinus. The diagnosis of Parapelvic kidney cyst is made on the imaging result through examinations. A moderate kidney cyst usually doesn’t pose evident symptoms, but as the cyst gets larger, the patients may experience back pains, hematuria, high blood pressure, abdominal mass, kidney stones, etc. A kidney cyst is a fluid-filled closed sac that may develop in any part of the kidney. A Parapelvic kidney cyst is defined because of its presence next to the pelvis and urinary tract system. The cyst can enlarge over periods of time because the cystic epithelial cells secrete cystic liquid continuously
Parapelvic cysts of the kidneys are Simple kidney cyst, which are adjacent to the renal pelvis or the renal sinus. Parapelvic cysts are mostly caused by congenital factors. It occounts for 1% to 3% among all cases of renal cysts after more than 50 years old. Parapelvic cysts can compress the pyelocaliceal system or ureter, cause flank pain or lead to other symptoms of urinary obstruction. Treatment for renal parapelvic cysts. The renal parapelvic cyst is benign renal lesions, cysts are small and asymptomatic, can be regular followed up for treatment. When the cyst diameter is larger than 5 cm or cause symptoms and complications, surgery should take active
The Truth about a Parapelvic Cyst. A cyst is a closed little pouch that can be filled with fluid, and a parapelvic cyst is a cyst which is in the kidney. Cysts can occur anywhere on the human body. The parapelvic cyst is a simple cyst that forms in the kidney and it’s different than polycystic kidney disease, another type of kidney cyst. Simple kidney cysts occur more and more as we age. Statistics show that the chances are 50% of you will have at least one kidney cyst by the time you reach the age of seventy. 
Definition of Renal Parapelvic Cysts. Parapelvic cysts of the kidneys are simple renal cysts, which are adjacent to the renal pelvis or the renal sinus. 