Maldives is a country of South Asia, situated in the Indian Ocean, south-southwest of India. The Maldives has no hills, but some islands have dunes which can reach 2.4 meters (7.9 feet) above sea level, like the NW coast of Hithadhoo (Seenu Atoll) in Addu Atoll.
Most atolls of the Maldives consist of a large, ring-shaped coral reef supporting numerous small islands. Islands average only one to two square kilometers in area, and lie between one and 1.5 meters above mean sea level. The Maldives has no hills, but some islands have dunes which can reach 2.4 meters (7.9 feet) above sea level, like the NW coast of Hithadhoo (Seenu Atoll) in Addu Atoll.
Maldives geography constitutes of its location, climate, landforms, vegetation and wildlife of the islands. A part of the Asian continent, the geography of Maldives is unique. Nowhere else can one find such a huge concentration of coral islands forming the atolls in the Indian Ocean as you can see in Maldives. Maldives climate, an important aspect of Maldives geography, is predominantly tropical in nature. The flat topography is dotted with beaches of white sand. The islands forming the Maldives archipelago have a coastline stretching for 644km. The total land area of Maldives is 300sq. km
The Maldives is in the Indian Ocean off the south western coast of India in South Asia. The atolls are the tips of the submarine ridge Chagos-Maldives-Laccadive. The largest individual island is eight kilometres long. There are no rivers on the Maldives, but there are small lakes and marshes. The Maldives is the smallest country in Asia for both population and area. It is almost 1,190 live coral reef and sand bar islands that make a double chain of 26 atolls. An atoll is an island made from coral that surrounds a lagoon either completely or partially
Maldives Facts Flag. The island nation of Maldives is south of India in the Indian Ocean. The islands are small, and none rise more than 1.8 meters (6 feet) above sea level. Like necklaces draped along an undersea plateau, 1,200 coral islands—about 200 inhabited—form the Maldives. Map. The island nation of Maldives is south of India in the Indian Ocean. The islands are small, and none rise more than 1.8 meters (6 feet) above sea level.
The islands of Maldives that are inhabited by people are 200 in number while 80 more islands are used exclusively for tourism purposes. Maldives Flora and Fauna. Maldives Flora and Fauna is one of the chief aspects of Maldives geography. The islands of Maldives in the Indian Ocean has a tropical type of climate. The soil layer also plays an important role in the growth and development of the flora of Maldives. Maldives climate, an important aspect of Maldives geography, is predominantly tropical in nature. The flat topography is dotted with beaches of white sand. The islands forming the Maldives archipelago have a coastline stretching for 644km. The total land area of Maldives is 300sq. km
The largest island of Maldives is Gan, which belongs to Laamu Atoll or Hahdhummathi Maldives. In Addu Atoll the westernmost islands are connected by roads over the reef and the total length of the road is 14 km. The Maldives has no hills, but some islands have dunes which can reach 2.4 meters (7.9 feet) above sea level, like the NW coast of Hithadhoo (Seenu Atoll) in Addu Atoll.