Check the temperature of your refrigerator with a thermometer even if your refrigerator is new. To measure the temperature in the refrigerator: 1  Put a glass kitchen thermometer (candy thermometer) in a glass of water and place it in the middle of the refrigerator. 2  Wait 5 to 8 hours. 3  If the temperature is not 38° to 40°F, adjust the refrigerator temperature control. 1 Store raw meat, poultry and seafood on the bottom shelf of the refrigerator so juices don’t drip onto other foods and cause cross-contamination. 2  When thawing meat in the refrigerator meat should be placed on a plate or in a container to prevent juices from contaminating other foods.
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. 
(See Packaging or Repackaging Meat). Properly handled food stored in a freezer at 0°F (-18 °C) will always be safe as long as it hasn’t thawed. The food is safe because the bacteria has entered a dormant stage. For best quality, store frozen raw ground meats no more than 3 to 4 months; cooked meats, 2 to 3 months. Freezing meat will only be safe and effective if the freezer temperature is accurate. Check the freezer temperature frequently with a thermometer. To measure the temperature in the freezer: 1  Place the thermometer between frozen food packages. 2  Wait 5 to 8 hours.
Do not leave any pork at room temperature for more than two hours. If cooked pork is not going to be used within four days of cooking, it should be frozen. Refrigerating. Raw or cooked meat can be stored safely in a refrigerator at 40°F or lower for several days. If meat is stored in a refrigerator freezer, it should be used sooner than if stored in a freezer unit. When freezing a large quantity of pork at one time, be sure you have adequate freezer space so that proper temperatures are maintained when freezing.
The maximum temperature at which meat should be stored should be 40  degrees. When heated, meat should reach temperatures of 160 degrees  Fahrenheit or higher. 
1 Meat should be transferred to a non-plastic dish and covered with foil or loosely covered with plastic to allow some air flow. 2  Raw and cooked meat should be stored separately. 3  Fresh meat will keep 3 - 5 days in the fridge. 4  Cooked meat 5 - 7 days. Storing Meat. 1  Plastic will make the meat sweat. 2  Meat should be transferred to a non-plastic dish and covered with foil or loosely covered with plastic to allow some air flow. 3  Raw and cooked meat should be stored separately. 4
1 When thawing meat in the refrigerator meat should be placed on a plate or in a container to prevent juices from contaminating other foods. 2  Use food stored in the refrigerator quickly. 3  Don’t depend on maximum storage time. 1 Store raw meat, poultry and seafood on the bottom shelf of the refrigerator so juices don’t drip onto other foods and cause cross-contamination. 2  When thawing meat in the refrigerator meat should be placed on a plate or in a container to prevent juices from contaminating other foods.
1 Depending on the cut, uncooked meat can be stored up to 6 months in the freezer. 2  Larger cuts, like steaks and roasts, can be safely stored for up to 6 months. 3  Smaller cuts, such as beef steaks, should not be frozen for more than 4 months, and minced meat should not be frozen for more than 3 months. Storing Meat. 1  Plastic will make the meat sweat. 2  Meat should be transferred to a non-plastic dish and covered with foil or loosely covered with plastic to allow some air flow. 3  Raw and cooked meat should be stored separately. 4  Fresh meat will keep 3 - 5 days in the fridge.
Do not allow the meat to remain at room temperature for more than two hours and on days when the air temperature is over 85°F, reduce this time to an hour or less. Cool leftovers as soon as possible and store for up to four days in a refrigerator at 40°F or less. If meat is stored in a refrigerator freezer, it should be used sooner than if stored in a freezer unit. When freezing a large quantity of pork at one time, be sure you have adequate freezer space so that proper temperatures are maintained when freezing.