A nucleic acid strand is a polymer of nucleotides. 1  Nucleic acids are polymers made of nucleotide monomers. 2  Each nucleotide consists of three parts: a nitrogenous base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. 3  The nitrogen bases are rings of carbon and nitrogen that come in two types: purines and pyrimidines. 1
DNA is essentially a storage molecule. It contains all of the instructions a cell needs to sustain itself. These instructions are found within genes, which are sections of DNA made up of specific sequences of nucleotides. In order to be implemented, the instructions contained within genes must be expressed, or copied into a form that can be used by cells to produce the proteins needed to support life. 
Proteins are made of a chain of 20 different types of amino acid molecules. This chain folds up into a compact shape, rather like an untidy ball of string. The shape of the protein is determined by the sequence of amino acids along its chain and it is this shape that, in turn, determines what the protein does. In addition to inheritance, genetics studies how genes are turned on and off to control what substances are made in a cell-gene expression; and how a cell divides-mitosis or meiosis. Some phenotypic traits can be seen, such as eye color while others can only be detected, such as blood type or intelligence.
1 Three of the four classes of macromolecules—carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic acids—form chainlike molecules called polymers. 2  A polymer is a long molecule consisting of many similar or identical building blocks linked by covalent bonds. 3  The repeated units are small molecules called monomers. 1 Nucleic acids are polymers made of nucleotide monomers. 2  Each nucleotide consists of three parts: a nitrogenous base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. 3  The nitrogen bases are rings of carbon and nitrogen that come in two types: purines and pyrimidines.
Alleles are forms of the same gene with small differences in their sequence of DNA bases. These small differences contribute to each person’s unique physical features. Genes are made up of DNA. Each chromosome contains many genes. A gene is the basic physical and functional unit of heredity. Genes, which are made up of DNA, act as instructions to make molecules called proteins. In humans, genes vary in size from a few hundred DNA bases to more than 2 million bases. 
The most common macromolecules in biochemistry are biopolymers (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates and polyphenols) and large non-polymeric molecules (such as lipids and macrocycles). According to the standard IUPAC definition, the term macromolecule as used in polymer science refers only to a single molecule. For example,a single polymeric molecule is appropriately described as a macromolecule or polymer molecule rather than a polymer, which suggests a substance composed of macromolecules.
Living things are made of four types of molecules, known as macromolecules: proteins, lipids (fats), carbohydrates (sugars) and nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Each type of macromolecule is made of its own building blocks, which are connected like Legos to form different shapes. Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are sugars. A carbohydrate can take the form of a simple sugar, such as table sugar, or long fibers that are part of wood. Carbohydrates are made of building blocks called monosaccharides. Table sugar, called sucrose, is formed by the joining the two monosaccharides glucose and fructose.
Nucleic Acids. If proteins are the work force of the cell, then DNA is the brains of the cell. DNA, a double-stranded molecule made of linked nucleic acids, carries the genetic information for making all four types of macromolecules in cells. Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are sugars. A carbohydrate can take the form of a simple sugar, such as table sugar, or long fibers that are part of wood. Carbohydrates are made of building blocks called monosaccharides. Table sugar, called sucrose, is formed by the joining the two monosaccharides glucose and fructose.
A macromolecule is a very large molecule commonly created by polymerization of smaller subunits (monomers). They are typically composed of thousands or more atoms. According to the standard IUPAC definition, the term macromolecule as used in polymer science refers only to a single molecule. For example,a single polymeric molecule is appropriately described as a macromolecule or polymer molecule rather than a polymer, which suggests a substance composed of macromolecules.