Example: A stratified squamous epithelium forms the lining of the mouth and the lining of the esophagus. A stratified epithelium is an epithelium that is made up of a number of layers of cells. A stratified squamous epithelium is made up of a number of layers and the cells of the outer layers are flat (squamous). In the deepest layer new cells are produced by the division of stem cell
In the oral cavity and esophagus, stratified squamous epithelia occur as a mucous or non-keratinized type, designed for protection and lubrication during chewing and swallowing. This mucous variety also occurs in the rectum and lower portions of the female reproductive tract. In contrast to the keratinized stratified squamous epithelium, flattened surface cells of a mucous type are nucleated and living. Non-keratinized or mucous type, stratified squamous is found in: the oral cavity. esophagus to the stomach junction. anus and rectum.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A stratified squamous epithelium consists of squamous (flattened) epithelial cells arranged in layers upon a basal membrane. Only one layer is in contact with the basement membrane; the other layers adhere to one another to maintain structural integrity. Although this epithelium is referred to as squamous, many cells within the layers may not be flattened; this is due to the convention of naming epithelia according to the cell type at the surface. In the deeper layers, the cells may be columnar or cuboidal
The most prevalent of the stratified epithelia is the squamous variety. As a keratinized or waterproofed component of the skin, stratified squamous epithelium provides substantial protection against friction, microbial invasion and dessication. In contrast to the keratinized stratified squamous epithelium, flattened surface cells of a mucous type are nucleated and living. Non-keratinized or mucous type, stratified squamous is found in: the oral cavity. esophagus to the stomach junction. anus and rectum.
Esophagus. The esophagus conveys food from the pharynx to the stomach by means of peristaltic waves which begin as a result of the swallowing reflex. The inner wall of the esophagus is lined with stratified squamous epithelium. It shows up as large purple on your slide. Notice that the cells at the base of this epithelial layer are cuboidal. This is the region where mitosis occurs. As new cells are produced they are pushed nearer the surface and become flattened. 
Esophageal epithelium is non-keratinized stratified squamous. Note that the basal surface of the epithelium can be deeply indented by connective tissue papillae. In oblique section through the epithelium, the connective tissue papillae can look like islands, apparently surrounded by epithelium. The esophagus provides passage between the oral cavity to the stomach. Compared to other regions of the GI tract, the esophagus is a fairly simple tube. Functional specializations are correspondingly few. The esophageal lining is protected by a stratified squamous epithelium. Because this epithelium is normally not exposed to dryness or to abrasion, it is non-keratinized. Scattered submucosal mucous glands provide lubrication
Split and merge into it. Answer by 1234john1234. Confidence votes 48. Stratified squamous epithelium consists of several layers of cells, which protect the areas of the body It can be found in areas such as the esophagus, mouth, and the outer portion of the skin (epidermis). Saquamous cells are flat cells. Single cell layer of these squamous cells is called saqumous cell epithelium. The stratified epithelium means formed of layers [strata] o … f cells which may or may not be squamous cells. The functions of these layers are different.
Keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is identified by the multiple layers of dead cells at the surface. Keratin accumulation within maturing cells effectively waterproofs the cells, blocking diffusion of nutrients and wastes. The cells subsequently die. In contrast to the keratinized stratified squamous epithelium, flattened surface cells of a mucous type are nucleated and living. Non-keratinized or mucous type, stratified squamous is found in: the oral cavity. esophagus to the stomach junction. anus and rectum.