Rosemary is a herb that is used for both culinary and medicinal purposes. The rosemary plant is native to the Mediterranean area, but it is found in other regions such as France and even as far south as South Africa. The plant itself is an evergreen and has leaves which resemble the needles of an evergreen tree. Rosemary is also an antispasmodic which means this herb can be used in different tonics or rubs and rubbed on the body to promote blood flow and ease muscular spasms. Rosemary can also be used to treat a variety of skin conditions such as eczema.
Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) is a fragrant evergreen herb native to the Mediterranean. It is used as a culinary condiment, to make bodily perfumes, and for its potential health benefits. Rosemary is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae along with many other herbs, such as oregano, thyme, basil, and lavender. The name rosemary derives from the Latin ros meaning dew and marinus meaning sea - sea dew.. The herb has been hailed since ancient times for its medicinal properties.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Rosemary (disambiguation) . Rosmarinus officinalis, commonly known as rosemary, is a woody, perennial herb with fragrant, evergreen, needle-like leaves and white, pink, purple, or blue flowers, native to the Mediterranean region. It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which includes many other herbs. The name rosemary derives from the Latin for dew (ros) and sea (marinus), or dew of the sea. The plant is also sometimes called anthos, from the ancient Greek word ἄνθος, meaning flower. Rosemary has a fibrous root system.
Rosemary herb parts, whether fresh or dried, are rich source of minerals like potassium, calcium, iron, manganese, copper, and magnesium. Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids, which helps control heart rate and blood pressure. Rosmarinic acid, a natural polyphenolic antioxidant found in rosemary, has been found to have anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, and anti-oxidant functions. Apart from the rosemary, other popular herbs like Sage, peppermint, oregano, thyme herbs also contain appreciable levels of rosmarinic acid.
Rosemary is a Mediterranean herb that has been used for cooking and medicinal purposes for thousands of years. The warm, spicy scent of rosemary complements many types of dishes, including drinks and desserts. Learning to cook with rosemary should be a delight to the senses. 
ROSEMARY Overview Information. Rosemary is an herb. Oil is extracted from the leaf and used to make medicine. Rosemary is used for digestion problems, including heartburn, intestinal gas (flatulence), liver and gallbladder complaints, and loss of appetite. It is also used for gout, cough, headache, high blood pressure, and reducing age-related memory loss
Rosemary illustration from an Italian herbal, circa 1500. Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) essential oil. Rosemary is an aromatic evergreen shrub that has leaves similar to hemlock needles. The leaves are used as a flavoring in foods such as stuffings and roast lamb, pork, chicken and turkey. It is native to the Mediterranean and Asia, but is reasonably hardy in cool climates. It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which includes many other herbs. The name rosemary derives from the Latin for dew (ros) and sea (marinus), or dew of the sea. The plant is also sometimes called anthos, from the ancient Greek word ἄνθος, meaning flower. Rosemary has a fibrous root system.
To make your own rosemary-infused oil, place a sprig or two of completely dry rosemary leaves into a glass jar, top with olive oil, replace the lid, and shake lightly. Store in a warm, dark place for two weeks, strain, and then simply pour back into the glass jar. Remarkable Rosemary. Botanical name: Rosmarinus officinalis. Since its primordial Mediterranean origins, the woodsy-citrus-like fragrance of rosemary has graced gardens, kitchens, and apothecaries throughout the world.
Rosemary herb nutrition facts. Charmingly fragrant rosemary herb is the perfect potherb to have in your kitchen garden. It is one of the recognized herbs for its note-worthy health benefiting phyto-nutrients, anti-oxidants, and essential acids. Rosmarinic acid, a natural polyphenolic antioxidant found in rosemary, has been found to have anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, and anti-oxidant functions. Apart from the rosemary, other popular herbs like Sage, peppermint, oregano, thyme herbs also contain appreciable levels of rosmarinic acid.