The number of woody plant species which have been clonally propagated through tissue culture is increasing at a rapid rate, and in fact, most commercially important ornamental species have been studied. Perhaps the best publicized of the early research on woody plants involved apples, Douglas fir, and rhododendrons. THE METHODOLOGY OF TISSUE CULTURE. The variety of techniques which can be used to get plant development in vitro (that is, by techniques such as tissue culture) is considerable and completely dependent upon the species in question.
These small pieces may come from a single mother plant or they may be the result of genetic transformation of single plant cells which are then encouraged to grow and to ultimately develop into a whole plant. Tissue culture techniques are often used for commercial production of plants as well as for plant research. Tissue culture involves the use of small pieces of plant tissue (explants) which are cultured in a nutrient medium under sterile conditions. Using the appropriate growing conditions for each explant type, plants can be induced to rapidly produce new shoots, and, with the addition of suitable hormones new roots.
Plant tissue culture is widely used to produce clones of a plant in a method known as micropropagation. Different techniques in plant tissue culture may offer certain advantages over traditional methods of propagation, including: Plant tissue culture is used widely in the plant sciences, forestry, and in horticulture. Applications include: 1  The commercial production of plants used as potting, landscape, and florist subjects, which uses meristem and shoot culture to produce large numbers of identical individuals.
The Early Years • In the early years of commercial plant tissue culture, the main focus was on the propagation of orchids and tropicals (Alocasia, Colocasia, Spathipyllum, Syngonium, Anthurium, Philodendron) • Indoor/outdoor foliage plants – “ lush tropical look” • At the time, water availability was not a concern. 
Medical Definition of TISSUE CULTURE. : the process or technique of making body tissue grow in a culture medium outside the organism; also: a culture of tissue (as epithelium). ADVERTISEMENT. noun
I. TYPES OF CELLS GROWN IN CULTURE. Tissue culture is often a generic term that refers to both organ culture and cell culture and the terms are often used interchangeably. Cell cultures are derived from either primary tissue explants or cell suspensions. III. PRESERVATION AND STORAGE. Liquid N2 is used to preserve tissue culture cells, either in the liquid phase (-196°C) or in the vapor phase (-156°C). Freezing can be lethal to cells due to the effects of damage by ice crystals, alterations in the concentration of electrolytes, dehydration, and changes in pH.
Plant tissue culture relies on the fact that many plant cells have the ability to regenerate a whole plant (totipotency). Plant tissue culture is used widely in the plant sciences, forestry, and in horticulture. Applications include: 1  The commercial production of plants used as potting, landscape, and florist subjects, which uses meristem and shoot culture to produce large numbers of identical individuals.
Plant tissue culture is a collection of techniques used to maintain or grow plant cells, tissues or organs under sterile conditions on a nutrient culture medium of known composition. Plant tissue culture is used widely in the plant sciences, forestry, and in horticulture. Applications include: 1  The commercial production of plants used as potting, landscape, and florist subjects, which uses meristem and shoot culture to produce large numbers of identical individuals.
plant tissue culture or cell culture:-     it is the technique of in vitro, culture in which isolated plant cells, tissues, organs or even entire plant are subjected to … grow in nutrient media in glass containers(tubes,conical flask,petri dishes) under aseptic conditions. 