Pluripotent stem cells are master cells. They’re able to make cells from all three basic body layers, so they can potentially produce any cell or tissue the body needs to repair itself. Stem cells made by somatic cell nuclear transfer (ntES cells). The term somatic cell nuclear transfer (SCNT) means, literally, transferring the nucleus (which contains all of a cell’s genetic instructions) from a somatic cell—any cell of the body—to another cell, in this case an egg cell.
Stem cells are categorized by their potential to differentiate into other types of cells. Embryonic stem cells are the most potent since they must become every type of cell in the body. The full classification includes: 1  Totipotent-the ability to differentiate into all possible cell types. 2  Examples are the zygote formed at egg fertilization and the first few cells that result from the division of the zygote. Stem cells are a class of undifferentiated cells that are able to differentiate into specialized cell types. Commonly, stem cells come from two main sources: 1  Embryos formed during the blastocyst phase of embryological development (embryonic stem cells) and. 2  Adult tissue (adult stem cells).
Within the bone marrow, all blood cells originate from a single type of unspecialized cell called a stem cell. When a stem cell divides, it first becomes an immature red blood cell, white blood cell, or platelet-producing cell. 
1 Examples include embryonic stem cells and cells that are derived from the mesoderm, endoderm, and ectoderm germ layers that are formed in the beginning stages of embryonic stem cell differentiation. 2  Multipotent-the ability to differentiate into a closely related family of cells. Stem cells are a class of undifferentiated cells that are able to differentiate into specialized cell types. Commonly, stem cells come from two main sources: 1  Embryos formed during the blastocyst phase of embryological development (embryonic stem cells) and. 2  Adult tissue (adult stem cells).
About Monoclonal Antibodies: Monoclonal Antibodies are cells derived by cell division from a single ancestral cell. Monoclonals are a class of antibodies with identical offspring of a hybridoma and are very specific for a particular location in the body derived from a single clone and can be grown indefinitely. 
IV. An adult stem cell is thought to be an undifferentiated cell, found among differentiated cells in a tissue or organ. The adult stem cell can renew itself and can differentiate to yield some or all of the major specialized cell types of the tissue or organ. The primary roles of adult stem cells in a living organism are to maintain and repair the tissue in which they are found.
1 Pluripotent-the ability to differentiate into almost all cell types. 2  Examples include embryonic stem cells and cells that are derived from the mesoderm, endoderm, and ectoderm germ layers that are formed in the beginning stages of embryonic stem cell differentiation. Stem cells are a class of undifferentiated cells that are able to differentiate into specialized cell types. Commonly, stem cells come from two main sources: 1  Embryos formed during the blastocyst phase of embryological development (embryonic stem cells) and. 2  Adult tissue (adult stem cells).
One population, called hematopoietic stem cells, forms all the types of blood cells in the body. A second population, called bone marrow stromal stem cells (also called mesenchymal stem cells, or skeletal stem cells by some), were discovered a few years later. The adult stem cell can renew itself and can differentiate to yield some or all of the major specialized cell types of the tissue or organ. The primary roles of adult stem cells in a living organism are to maintain and repair the tissue in which they are found.
Embryonic stem cell. Also called ES cells, embryonic stem cells are cells derived from the inner cell mass of developing blastocysts. An ES cell is self-renewing (can replicate itself), pluripotent (can form all cell types found in the body) and theoretically is immortal. Stem cells that can give rise to all cell types that are found in an embryo, fetus, or developed organism, including the embryonic components of the trophoblast and placenta required to support development and birth.
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. 