Brachiopods, phylum Brachiopoda, are marine animals that have hard valves (shells) on the upper and lower surfaces, unlike the left and right arrangement in bivalve molluscs. Brachiopod valves are hinged at the rear end, while the front can be opened for feeding or closed for protection. Ripe gametes (ova or sperm) float from the gonads into the main coelom and then exit into the mantle cavity. The larvae of inarticulate brachiopods are miniature adults, with lophophores that enable the larvae to feed and swim for months until the animals become heavy enough to settle to the seabed.
In a typical brachiopod a stalk-like pedicle projects from an opening in one of the valves, known as the pedicle valve, attaching the animal to the seabed but clear of silt that would obstruct the opening. Ripe gametes (ova or sperm) float from the gonads into the main coelom and then exit into the mantle cavity. The larvae of inarticulate brachiopods are miniature adults, with lophophores that enable the larvae to feed and swim for months until the animals become heavy enough to settle to the seabed.
However, new fossils found in 2007 and 2008 showed that the chain mail of tommotiids formed the tube of a sessile animal; one tommotiid resembled phoronids, which are close relatives or a subgroup of brachiopods, while the other tommotiid bore two symmetrical plates that might be an early form of brachiopod valves. Ripe gametes (ova or sperm) float from the gonads into the main coelom and then exit into the mantle cavity. The larvae of inarticulate brachiopods are miniature adults, with lophophores that enable the larvae to feed and swim for months until the animals become heavy enough to settle to the seabed.
LAB 5 Chapter 6: Phylum Brachiopoda 6.1 Introduction While recent brachiopods are a rather rare and insignificant group, their long fossil history shows that they were at times the most prominent animals in the seas. 
Chapter 6: Phylum Brachiopoda. 6.1 Introduction. While recent brachiopods are a rather rare and insignificant group, their long fossil history shows that they were at times the most prominent animals in the seas. The phylum is quite important for biostratigraphy, paleoecology, and evolutionary studies because it shows a great variety of changes in form and function through time. Brachiopods appear near the beginning of the Cambrian, but did not become abundant until the Early Ordovician.
The Bryozoa, also known as Polyzoa, Ectoprocta or commonly as moss animals, are a phylum of aquatic invertebrate animals. Typically about 0.5 millimetres (0.020 in) long, they are filter feeders that sieve food particles out of the water using a retractable lophophore, a crown of tentacles lined with cilia. Currently there are about 5,000 known species of Bryozoa that are known. The Bryozoa are known as a moss animals. The different species can come together to form a colony that can attach to different kind of rock surfaces as well as shells and algae.
Introduction. The Brachiopoda, or Lampshells are an ancient phylum of filter feeding marine worms. They live inside a pair of shells much like the more numerous bivalves, however they are no more related bivalves than people are starfish. 2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body cavity a true coelom. 4)Body possesses a U-shaped gut with or without an anus. 5)Body enclosed in a pair of shells, one dorsal and the other ventral.
Brachiopods are small animals with the largest living species having a shell length of about 10 cm (4 in) and most species being much smaller than this. There are only about 350 living species of Brachiopods known to science now. 2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body cavity a true coelom. 4)Body possesses a U-shaped gut with or without an anus. 5)Body enclosed in a pair of shells, one dorsal and the other ventral.
Phylum: Brachiopoda. The Phylum Brachiopoda, which appeared in the Lower Cambrian Period, was one of the most abundant Paleozoic fossil phyla with over 30,000 species. That number has now dropped to 280 living species. The animal has two unequal valves which makes the brachiopod’s exoskeleton. They have a tiny heart with a poorly-developed circulatory system. Their respiratory and digestive systems are very primitive