Thyroid cancer is a disease that you get when abnormal cells begin to grow in your thyroid gland. The thyroid gland is shaped like a butterfly and is located in the front of your neck. It makes hormones that regulate the way your body uses energy and that help your body work normally. If you have a lump in your neck that could be thyroid cancer, your doctor may do a biopsy of your thyroid gland to check for cancer cells. A biopsy is a simple procedure in which a small piece of the thyroid tissue is removed, usually with a needle, and then checked. Sometimes the results of a biopsy are not clear.
Knowledge center. Thyroid cancer, or cancer of the thyroid is cancer of the thyroid gland, which is located in the front of the neck-the thyroid gland produces hormones which regulate normal body metabolism, heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature and weight. It is not a common type of cancer, although its incidence is rising. 
1 Thyroid cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the thyroid gland. 2  Age, gender, and exposure to radiation can affect the risk of thyroid cancer. 3  Medullary thyroid cancer is sometimes caused by a change in a gene that is passed from parent to child. 
About Thyroid Cancer. Thyroid cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the thyroid gland. The thyroid is a gland at the base of the throat near the trachea (windpipe). It is shaped like a butterfly, with a right lobe and a left lobe. The isthmus, a thin piece of tissue, connects the two lobes. 
Most often the first symptom of thyroid cancer is a nodule in the thyroid region of the neck. However, many adults have small nodules in their thyroids, but typically under 5% of these nodules are found to be cancerous. Sometimes the first sign is an enlarged lymph node. The most effective management of aggressive thyroid cancers is surgical removal of thyroid gland (thyroidectomy) followed by radioactive iodine ablation and TSH-suppression therapy. Chemotherapy or radiotherapy may also be used in cases of distant metastases or advanced cancer stage.
Cancer Education. Thyroid cancer occurs in the cells of the thyroid — a butterfly-shaped gland located at the base of your neck, just below your Adam's apple. Your thyroid produces hormones that regulate your heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature and weight. 
1 The most common signs and symptoms of thyroid cancer include a lump, or thyroid nodule, that can be felt in the neck, trouble swallowing, throat or neck pain, swollen lymph nodes in the neck, cough, and vocal changes. 1 Surgery is the most common form of treatment for thyroid cancer that has not spread to other areas of the body. 2  Radiation therapy, chemotherapy, and radioactive iodine treatment are also treatment options for thyroid cancer.
Thyroid cancer is a cancer originating from follicular or parafollicular thyroid cells. These cells give rise to both well-differentiated cancers (i.e., papillary and follicular) and analastic thyroid cancer. The most effective management of aggressive thyroid cancers is surgical removal of thyroid gland (thyroidectomy) followed by radioactive iodine ablation and TSH-suppression therapy. Chemotherapy or radiotherapy may also be used in cases of distant metastases or advanced cancer stage.
Thyroid cancer is a cancer that starts in the thyroid gland. To understand thyroid cancer, it helps to know about the normal structure and function of the thyroid gland. The thyroid gland has 2 main types of cells: 1  Follicular cells use iodine from the blood to make thyroid hormones, which help regulate a person’s metabolism. 2  C cells (also called parafollicular cells) make calcitonin, a hormone that helps control how the body uses calcium.