Mix one part acid to one part water. For instance, you can use a cup of vinegar to a cup of water. You can also use cream of tartar or lemon juice. 1  Alternatively, you can use a metal-polishing paste to scrub the furniture in place of the mild acid solution.
closerfan12. Post 2. Another good tip for cleaning aluminum pots and pans is to use a cream of tartar. You can put anywhere from a fourth a cup to a half a cup of cream of tartar in water and let it boil for ten minutes, then soak the pan in it.
The risk is that you may not be able to remove all the acid and if it is left on the metal it will continue to corrode the metal. So to give you a quick answer, you can use vinegar to etch the aluminum, but you have to rinse the surface thoroughly to remove all the acid residue.
Cleaning aluminum with white vinegar. I recently got a couple ratty Amal 930's from a swap meet. I was looking for a way to clean without media blasting, as I don't have a blast cabinet. After some digging, I found that white vinegar can be used to clean aluminum.
Mix 8 tbsp. of cream of tartar and 8 tbsp. of baking soda together in a bowl. Add 4 oz. of vinegar, stirring the mixture into a paste. Mix in 4 tbsp. of soap flakes. This mixture can last one or two years if stored in a tightly sealed jar. Apply the paste to the aluminum surface using a sponge. If you are cleaning a badly tarnished area, gently rub with a steel-wool pad.
1 Alternatively, you can add apple peels to the water in place of the acid. 2  If you prefer, you can use a gentle aluminum cleaner meant for cookware instead of the boiling method. 3  Use it as you would any soap or mild abrasive to clean flatware and pots. 4  Rub it on with a sponge, and then rinse it or wipe it off.
1 If you prefer, you can use a gentle aluminum cleaner meant for cookware instead of the boiling method. 2  Use it as you would any soap or mild abrasive to clean flatware and pots. 3  Rub it on with a sponge, and then rinse it or wipe it off. 4  You can also use cleaners like Bar Keeper's Friend.