Answers. The battle at Waihind in 1008-09 was fought between (a) Mahmud of Ghazni and Anandapala (b) Mahmud of Ghazni and Jayapala (c) Muhammad Ghori and Prithviraj (d) Muhammad Ghori and Jaichandra. 4.
Congo River flows through these countries-Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Angola, Burundi, Tanzania, Cameroon, Republic of the Congo, Zambia, Gabon, and Rwanda. The river ranks as the … ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the
Congo River Crosses Equator Twice. Congo River, also known as Zaire River, crosses the equator twice. Congo River is the deepest river in the world and the second longest river in Africa. The river ranks as the ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the Congo River.
The River Congo got its name from the Kingdom of Kongo which was situated on the left banks of the river estuary. The kingdom is in turn named for its Bantu population, in the 17th century reported as Esikongo. South of the Kongo kingdom proper lay the similarly named Kakongo kingdom, mentioned in 1535. Measured along the Lualaba, the Congo River has a total length of 4,370 km (2,715 mi), The Congo Basin has a total area of about 4 million km 2, or 13% of the entire African landmass.
gmackematix. There are several rivers that cross the Equator so correctly answer the question as asked. If you mean which river flows both northwards and southwards over the Equator, then that narrows it down. As far as I know, the Congo is the only river that crosses the Equator twice in this fashion. 
+1 to Warren S. I learned something new today, man I love yahoo answers. Here is the wiki article and an excerpt about the Congo River....Because large sections of the river basin lie above and below the Equator..... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congo_river.
The Congo-Chambeshi river has an overall length of 4,700 km (2,920 mi), which makes it the ninth longest river (in terms of discharge, the Chambeshi is a tributary of the Lualaba River, Lualaba being the name of the Congo River upstream of the Boyoma Falls, extending for 1,800 km). Measured along the Lualaba, the Congo River has a total length of 4,370 km (2,715 mi), The Congo Basin has a total area of about 4 million km 2, or 13% of the entire African landmass.
Congo River, also known as Zaire River, crosses the equator twice. Congo River is the deepest river in the world and the second longest river in Africa. The river ranks as the … ninth longest river in the world with its overall length of 4,700 km. The famous Boyoma Falls or Stanley Falls is in Congo River. The Chambeshi River in Zambia is regarded as the source of the Congo River.
· just now. Report Abuse. It is not the Nile that crosses the equator only once or the Yellow, Mississippi, Red, Ohio or Wabash that do not cross the equator. I would take a stab and say the Amazon and that is probably the wrong answer but it is situated right. That is my answer and I am sticking to it! Here is the wiki article and an excerpt about the Congo River....Because large sections of the river basin lie above and below the Equator..... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congo_river.
The river also has the second-largest flow in the world, behind the Amazon; the third-largest drainage basin of any river, behind the Amazon and Plate rivers; and is one of the deepest rivers in the world, at depths greater than 220 m (720 ft). Measured along the Lualaba, the Congo River has a total length of 4,370 km (2,715 mi), The Congo Basin has a total area of about 4 million km 2, or 13% of the entire African landmass.