A reflective insulation is a material (or assembly) that reduces the rate of radiant heat transfer across air spaces by use of one or more highly reflective surfaces. This rate of heat transfer can be quantified for a specific application by an R-value. 
Heat/thermal insulation is a barrier material which resists/blocks/reflects heat energy (either one or more of conduction, convection or radiation) to prevent its transfer through the boundary between two systems which are at different temperatures. Heat transfer always occurs from a region of higher temperature to one of lower temperature. Radiant barrier (or reflective) insulation is heat/thermal insulation which reflects radiation heat (radiant heat), preventing transfer from one side to another due to a reflective (or low emittance) surface.
Radiant barrier is a radiant heat reflective insulation material. Radiant barriers (also known as reflective insulation) are a type of thermal (heat) insulations that inhibits heat transfer by thermal radiation. Heat transfer always occurs from a region of higher temperature to one of lower temperature. Radiant barrier (or reflective) insulation is heat/thermal insulation which reflects radiation heat (radiant heat), preventing transfer from one side to another due to a reflective (or low emittance) surface.
Radiant barrier insulation is a reflective insulation system that offers a permanent way to reduce energy costs. Radiant barrier insulation systems reflect radiant heat energy instead of trying to absorb it. A pure aluminumized film radiant barrier reflective insulation is unaffected by humidity and will continue to perform at a consistent level no matter how humid it may be. A radiant barrier insulation system is a layer of metalized film facing an airspace and is installed in the envelope of a building.
TempShield® insulation products consist of one or two layers of Barrier Bubble material laminated between layers of metalized film to provide excellent thermal resistance. The bubble contains an air retention layer designed to provide increased strength and puncture resistance. Insulation is used to either contain heat for maintaining warmth, or to resist heat for maintaining cold. In many applications, radiation is the dominant mode of heat transfer.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Reflective insulation, usually composed of aluminum, is also known as a radiant barrier. It resembles metallic foil and has a reflective surface. It is very versatile and easy to install. 
A: When you install a reflective insulation or radiant barrier in a building, you will prevent radiant heat gain and heat loss by up to 95 percent. This will help keep the building warmer in the winter and cooler during the summer. 
Reflective Foil Insulation. The terms reflective insulation, foil insulation, and radiant barrier are often used interchangeably. While insulation such as cellulose or fiberglass insulation slows down heat transfer, only a radiant barrier such as EcoFoil reflective insulation stops radiant heat gain / loss. Fiberglass and cellulose insulation slow down radiant heat, but only a reflective insulation such as EcoFoil reflective insulation stops up to 96% of radiant heat.
EcoFoil Reflective Insulation Stops up to 96% of Heat Transfer. Up to 96% of heat transfer is radiant. Fiberglass and cellulose insulation slow down radiant heat, but only a reflective insulation such as EcoFoil reflective insulation stops up to 96% of radiant heat. Foil insulation is an alternative option that uses the benefits of foil to create smarter insulation assemblies