Love this creole/cajun seasoning! Definitely a keeper! I love that I know exactly how much salt and other ingredients are in the mix. This was fast to put together and tasted wonderful. Just the right amount of heat and spice. Used on some grilled chicken to test it out. We were very pleased with the results. 5 5. Excellent seasoning mix! Made and used this in the making of YungB's Chicken and Andouille Sausage Gumbo Recipe for PAC with great results. Have added this one to my keepers for homemade mixes which I find are so superior to a good many of the purchased-as this one is.
Cajun and creole are very similar. Creole seasoning is like Tony Chachere's seasoning. Look at http://www.cajunspice.com/seasoning/inde... to buy some online. It is great. I do not own salt and pepper in my house. I only have Tony's in my house. Also, Zatarain's is good creole seasoning. They also have a website. Just googoe Zatarain's
From Nola Cuisine. Another staple in my kitchen is a good Creole Seasoning. A lot of folks use Tony Chachere’s, or Chef Paul’s, but I like to make my own, it’s easy if you have all the spices on hand, plus you have control over the heat and salinity. 
0 0. Creole Seasoning Creole Seasoning There’s nothing quite like Zatarain’s Creole Seasoning. A blend of spices that could only come from New Orleans offers a deliciously different flavor than your standard salt and pepper. Shake it on pretty much anything from meats and seafood to soups, salads and eggs. %Match.
Creole Seasoning. 5 5. Excellent seasoning mix! Made and used this in the making of YungB's Chicken and Andouille Sausage Gumbo Recipe for PAC with great results. Have added this one to my keepers for homemade mixes which I find are so superior to a good many of the purchased-as this one is.
What is the difference between Cajun and Creole seasoning? In broad terms, Creole cooking is city cooking, based on French traditions, but with influences from Spain, Africa, Germany, Italy, the West Indies, etc. 
This Creole seasoning blend is great for seasoning rice, meats, soups and stews, or anything that needs a flavor boost. Also makes a great gift when placed in a decorative jar with recipe attached.. Saved Save I Made it Rate it Share Print. Saved. Save. ADVERTISEMENT. 5 m servings 16 cals. Added to shopping list. 
I have a small container of Tony Chachere's Creole and have seen a few recipes that contain Cajun Seasoning. Are these two seasonings the same thing...can I interchange them? I know the Creole seasoning is like a seasoning salt with spices-not sure about cajun seasoning. 
Chef Emeril Lagasse, of the restaurants Emeril's and NOLA in New Orleans, has a slightly different Creole seasoning recipe: Some versions of Creole seasoning blend contain salt -- I don't do that, because I like to control salt content separately. Give lots of it away as gifts to your family and friends. 1  2 tablespoons onion powder. 2  2 tablespoons garlic powder. 3  2 tablespoons dried oregano leaves. 4  2 tablespoons dried sweet basil. 5  1 tablespoon dried thyme leaves. 6  1 tablespoon black pepper. 7  1 tablespoon white pepper.