Your child has an elbow fracture. That means he or she has a crack or break in one or more of the bones of the elbow joint. The elbow joint is formed by three arm bones: Radius. The bone on the thumb side of the forearm. Ulna. The bone on the little-finger
When you bend your elbow, you can easily feel its tip, a bony prominence that extends from one of the lower arm bones (the ulna). That tip is called the olecranon (oh-lek'-rah-nun). It is positioned directly under the skin of the elbow, without much protection from muscles or other soft tissues.
A useful rule of thumb is that the time taken for the bone to regain full strength is usually the same as the time it takes for the fracture to heal. That is, if you’ve been in plaster for six weeks, it will take six weeks to regain full strength. It's important not to get a plaster cast wet.
This may take up to a few weeks. You should apply ice to the elbow for 20 to 30 minutes every 3 to 4 hours for 2 to 3 days or until the pain and swelling go away. Your health care provider may prescribe an anti-inflammatory medicine or other pain medicine.
Bursitis (ber-SEYE-tis) is swelling and pain of a bursa. A bursa is a fluid-filled sac that acts as a cushion or shock absorber between a tendon and a bone. A tendon is a cord of tough tissue that connects muscles to bones. Although you cannot feel it, the elbow bursa is behind your elbow (over the pointed tip).
A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. Go to your nearest accident and emergency (A&E) department if you think you or your child has broken a bone.
The humerus is your upper arm bone between your shoulder and elbow. When your humerus is fractured near or at the ball of your shoulder joint, it is commonly known as a broken shoulder. Your humerus can be broken in many places and the fracture is normally described by its location eg a fractured neck of humerus. Please Note: fractured is the medical term for a broken bone.