Ruimsig Golf View Manor is an upmarket thatched guest house situated in the prestigious suburb of Ruimsig in the West Rand, offering five large luxurious rooms with original, unique and valuable pieces of furniture. Cradle Valley Guest Lodge is situated on the edge of the beautiful Cradle of Humankind, West of Johannesburg just a short drive from Lanseria Airport. Cradle Valley offers nine stylish and tastefully furnished bedrooms serviced ...
This property is situated in Ruimsig (Poortview area), an exclusive superb suburb bordered by the Walter Sisulu National Botanical Garden with the Witpoortjie waterfall and the Crocodile river, the 1  ... 5. This modern development situated in Ruimsig offers a combination of plaster and face brick finishes with rock cladding.There are a number of choices depending on your budget.
343 Equestrian Street, Ruimsig, Roodepoort, West Rand, Gauteng. Located on the banks of the Crocodile River and on the doorstep of the Walter Sisulu Botanical Gardens, Afrique Boutique Hotel in Ruimsig is a haven of style and comfort. Tucked away in a luscious garden filled with peace and ... Cradle Valley Guest Lodge is situated on the edge of the beautiful Cradle of Humankind, West of Johannesburg just a short drive from Lanseria Airport. Cradle Valley offers nine stylish and tastefully furnished bedrooms serviced ...
R 6 500 000. 5 Bedroom House for sale in Ruimsig. This property is situated in Ruimsig (Poortview area), an exclusive superb suburb bordered by the Walter Sisulu National Botanical Garden with the Witpoortjie waterfall and the Crocodile river, the ... This modern development situated in Ruimsig offers a combination of plaster and face brick finishes with rock cladding.There are a number of choices depending on your budget.
The Monash South Africa was opened in 2001. It is located on a 100 hectare site in Ruimsig in north-west Johannesburg, in the province of Gauteng. The student mix at Monash South Africa is diverse. In addition to domestic (South African) students, the campus is also home to many students from other African countries. For example, a large number of students from Botswana attend the university. In its first intake, Monash South Africa took on just over 100 students. By 2008, there were over 2200 students, and the University is rapidly expanding the campus to keep up with a demand for places which is increasing by 35% per year.
Ruimsig Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium located in Roodepoort, a suburb of Johannesburg, South Africa. It is used mostly for football matches and is set to be used as a training field for teams participating in the 2010 FIFA World Cup after being renovated in 2009 and brought up to FIFA standards. At the 2009 FIFA Confederations Cup, Iraq used Ruimsig Stadium for their training sessions.
Ruimsig Academy is a Private School situated in the heart of one of Johannesburg's most sought after neighbourhoods, the dynamic Ruimsig. 
The campus is located in Ruimsig, which is 25 km north-west of central Johannesburg. It is a purpose-built, greenfield, 100 hectare campus, which contains among the most modern and state of the art technologies of any Monash University campus. In its first intake, Monash South Africa took on just over 100 students. By 2008, there were over 2200 students, and the University is rapidly expanding the campus to keep up with a demand for places which is increasing by 35% per year.
343 Equestrian Street, Ruimsig, Roodepoort, West Rand, Gauteng. Located on the banks of the Crocodile River and on the doorstep of the Walter Sisulu Botanical Gardens, Afrique Boutique Hotel in Ruimsig is a haven of style and comfort. Tucked away in a luscious garden filled with peace and ...
500 Hole in One Avenue, Ruimsig, West Rand, Gauteng. Ruimsig Golf View Manor is an upmarket thatched guest house situated in the prestigious suburb of Ruimsig in the West Rand, offering five large luxurious rooms with original, unique and valuable pieces of furniture. These rooms ... Located on the banks of the Crocodile River and on the doorstep of the Walter Sisulu Botanical Gardens, Afrique Boutique Hotel in Ruimsig is a haven of style and comfort. Tucked away in a luscious garden filled with peace and ...