El Salvador Flag Meaning: The blue stripes represent the Pacific Ocean and Caribbean Sea; while the white stripe symbolizes peace. The state coat of arms on El Salvador's flag is based on the coat of arms of the former United Provinces of Central America. The coat of the arms shows a triangle which represents equality and the three branches of El Salvador's government. El Salvador Flag Description: The flag of El Salvador consists of three equal horizontal stripes-the top and bottom stripe are blue; and the middle stripe is white. In the middle of El Salvador's flag is the country's coat of arms
The coat of arms on El Salvador's flag is based on the coat of arms of the former United Provinces of Central America. The coat of the arms shows a triangle which represents equality and the three branches of El Salvador's government. 
The coat of arms on El Salvador's flag is based on the coat of arms of the former United Provinces of Central America. The coat of the arms shows a triangle which represents equality and the three branches of El Salvador's government. The colors are blue and white with a coat of arms in the middle. The blue stripes represent the Pacific Ocean; while the white stripe symbolizes peace but also symbolizes hell from all the humans rights and the war from el salvador and spin or el salvador's independence.
The flag of Honduras in use today is similar to that of the United Provinces of Central America which was a federation of the 5 Central American states (present-day states of Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica) from 1821 to 1841. 
El Salvador Flag: The flag of El Salvador was officially adopted on May 17, 1912. The blue and white are the original colors used by the United Provinces of Central America after they gained their independence from Spain in 1823. The centered emblem is surrounded by the five flags of the United Provinces. They symbolize the five member states of the United Provinces of Central America. Above the volcanoes is a red Phrygian cap on a staff before a golden sun and the date of 15 September, 1821, Independence Day of El Salvador.
The El Salvador flag was adopted on September 27, 1972. El Salvador, which in Spanish means ‘the savior’, gained its independence from Spain on September 15, 1821 and independence from the Central American federation in 1842. Interesting El Salvador Flag Facts: The flag of El Salvador is based on the flag of the United States of Central America. 1 Its triangle represents equality and the three branches of El Salvador’s government. 2  The five volcanoes within the flag symbolizes the five former members of the federation, flanked by the blue of the ocean and sea.
The El Salvador flag was adopted on September 27, 1972. El Salvador, which in Spanish means ‘the savior’, gained its independence from Spain on September 15, 1821 and independence from the Central American federation in 1842. El Salvador Flag: The flag of El Salvador consists of three equal horizontal stripes: 1  the top and bottom stripes are blue. 2  the middle stripe is white.