Milford Sound. Milford Sound is located near the bottom of New Zealand's South Island in Fiordland National Park. Milford Sound is known for its rain. It receives up to 8 metres of rain per year. This makes it one of the wettest places on earth. There's so much rain that the first few metres of water in the sound is fresh water!
Milford Sound. Milford Sound is a fiord located in the beautiful Fiordland region in the south-west of the South Island. It was named after Milford Haven in Wales and lies roughly 287km from Queenstown (about a three and a half hour drive) and 757km from Christchurch (nearly a nine hour drive). FIORDLAND LODGE-Te Anau, Milford. Located on the highway to Milford Sound, Fiordland Lodge offers the discerning traveller style, comfort and privacy, yet is only five kilometres from the tourist township of Te Anau.
Geography [edit]. Milford Sound runs 15 kilometres inland from the Tasman Sea at Dale Point (also named after a location close to Milford Haven in Wales) - the mouth of the fiord-and is surrounded by sheer rock faces that rise 1,200 metres (3,900 ft) or more on either side. By road, Milford Sound is 307 km from Queenstown and 279 km from Invercargill (about four hours' drive), with most of the tour buses to the sound departing from Queenstown. Some tourists also arrive from the smaller tourism centre of Te Anau, 121 km away.
Milford Sound. Milford Sound map location. Milford Sound (Māori: Piopiotahi) is a fiord in the south west of New Zealand 's South Island, within Fiordland National Park, Piopiotahi (Milford Sound) Marine Reserve, and the Te Wahipounamu World Heritage site. By road, Milford Sound is 307 km from Queenstown and 279 km from Invercargill (about four hours' drive), with most of the tour buses to the sound departing from Queenstown. Some tourists also arrive from the smaller tourism centre of Te Anau, 121 km away.
Te Anau (118 km from Milford Sound): The lakefront town of Te Anau is 2 hours driving from Milford Sound depending on traffic. On the whole, Te Anau is an ideal place to stay with a beautiful location, good cafes and restaurants, and ample area activities. Lodging in the Milford Sound Area. Milford Lodge (2 km from Milford Sound): The Milford Lodge is by far the closest accommodation to Milford Sound and the only place to stay within 50 kilometers.
Situated on the west coast of the South Island, Milford Sound is a fusion of spectacular natural features with amazing visual cues around every corner. Read more Close. Described by Rudyard Kipling as the 'eighth wonder of the world', Milford Sound was carved by glaciers during the ice ages. 
Geology. Milford Sound, located at the northern most end of Fiordland National Park on the South Island of New Zealand, is a national icon. In places as much as 400 metres deep, celebrated for its pristine landscapes, and remote and rugged beauty, it is actually a fiord, rather than a sound. From 1930-1954 the Homer Tunnel was built, allowing road access to Milford Sound, and visitors began to flock to Milford Sound to see it for themselves. Today it is New Zealand’s most famous tourist destination and frequently tops lists of the most beautiful places in the world.
Knob’s Flat (54 km from Milford Sound): Knob's Flat is located halfway between Te Anau and Milford Sound along the Milford Road. The accommodations are basic—there are six simple cabins and campsites—but the Eglinton Valley is spectacular and the morning drive to visit Milford Sound is a snap. Lodging in the Milford Sound Area. Milford Lodge (2 km from Milford Sound): The Milford Lodge is by far the closest accommodation to Milford Sound and the only place to stay within 50 kilometers.