Gayatri is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Gay-a-tri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10336 in baby name popularity for girls with 10 occurrences. 
Indian Meaning: The name Gayatri is an Indian baby name. In Indian the meaning of the name Gayatri is: A singer. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
Position and social status is very important for you and you are always looking for way to improve your position in society. You have power and ability to chose your own destiny and achieve anything you want in life. You can expand in any direction according to your will and the set of values. 
Meaning of Indian name: Gayatri. Meaning of the name Gayatri is 'Mother of the Vedas, Goddess Saraswati'. Gayatri is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Gayatri is '9'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Gayatri'.
[ 2 syll. ga-yat-hri, gay-ath-ri ] The baby girl name Gayathri is pronounced as JHY-aa-TRiy- †. Gayathri's language of origin is Sanskrit and it is predominantly used in Indian. Gayathri is a variant transcription of Gayatri. Gayathri is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not listed within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Gayathri include Gayatri, J'adore, Jethra, Jadira, and Jethria.
The Gāyatrī Mantra is a highly revered mantra from the Vedas. Like all Vedic mantras, the Gayatri mantra is considered not to have an author, and like all other Vedic mantras, is believed to have been revealed to a brahmarshi, in this case Vishvamitra. It is a verse from a sukta of the Rigveda (Mandala 3 .62.10).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Gayatri (gāyatrī) is the feminine form of gāyatra, a Sanskrit word for a song or a hymn. Gayatri is the name of a vedic poetic meter of 24 syllables (three couplets of eight syllables each), or any hymn composed in this meter. In Hinduism, it is one mantra in particular, and a goddess as its personification. It was written and developed by one of the greatest brahmarishi sages, Vishwamitra. Gayatri mantra is the very power full and ancient prayer in the hindu vedic religion. Gayatri is the female form of gayatra a sanskrit word for hyme or song. gayatri devi is the adi parashakti mother of gods and supream then all gods.
Gayatri (Sanskrit gāyatrī) is the feminine form of gāyatra, a Sanskrit word for a song or a hymn, having a Vedic meter of three pada s or lines of 8 syllables. In particular it refers to the Gayatri Mantra and the goddess Gāyatrī as that mantra personified. 