(Redirected from Tooth abscess). A dental abscess (also termed a dentoalveolar abscess, tooth abscess or root abscess), is a localized collection of pus associated with a tooth. The most common type of dental abscess is a periapical abscess, and the second most common is a periodontal abscess. In a periapical abscess, usually the origin is a bacterial infection that has accumulated in the soft, often dead, pulp of the tooth. This can be caused by tooth decay, broken teeth or extensive periodontal disease (or combinations of these factors). A failed root canal treatment may also create a similar abscess.
A tooth abscess differs from a gum abscess by the source of the original infection. The tooth abscess (or periapical abscess) originates from the pulp of the tooth and exits out the tooth's apex at the bottom of the root. A gum abscess (or periodontal abscess) starts in a gum pocket outside of the tooth next to the root. Treatment will depend on where the infection originates. An abscessed tooth is an infection within a tooth that has spread to the root tip or around the root. This infection originates from the tooth's inner chamber, which is called the pulp chamber.. Contained within the pulp chamber are blood vessels and nerves, collectively called the pulp.
A dental abscess is an infection of the mouth, face, jaw, or throat that begins as a tooth infection. The original cause may be from a deep cavity, periodontal (gum) disease, or from trauma. Such infections are more likely to be caused by poor dental health and can result from lack of proper and timely dental care. 
Abscessed Teeth. An abscess is an infection in or around the root of the tooth which may or may not be painful. It occurs when the pulp, the soft tissue inside the root canal, dies and becomes inflamed and goes untreated.
Your dentist will probe your teeth with a dental instrument. If you have an abscessed tooth, you will feel pain when the tooth is tapped by your dentist's probe. Your dentist will also ask you if your pain increases when you bite down or when you close your mouth tightly. A toothache that is severe and continuous and results in gnawing or throbbing pain or sharp or shooting pain are common symptoms of an abscessed tooth. Other symptoms may include: 1  Fever. 2  Pain when chewing. 3  Sensitivity of the teeth to hot or cold. 4  Bitter taste in the mouth.
The medical name for an abscessed tooth is a dentoalveolar abscess, but sufferers spell it p-a-i-n. An abscessed tooth is an infection that leads to swelling and a buildup of pus -- which, in turn, stimulates the nerve in that tooth. It's enough to make you howl out in agony or, at the very least, feel very uncomfortable.
Knowledge center. A dental abscess, or tooth abscess, is an accumulation of pus that forms inside the teeth or gums. The abscess typically originates from a bacterial infection, often one that has accumulated in the soft pulp of the tooth. There are 3 types of dental abscess: 1  Gingival abscess-the abscess is only in the gum tissue and does not affect the tooth or the periodontal ligament. 2  Periodontal abscess-this abscess starts in the supporting bone tissue structures of the teeth.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. An abscessed tooth is a painful infection at the root of a tooth or between the gum and a tooth. It's most commonly caused by severe tooth decay. Other causes of tooth abscess are trauma to the tooth, such as when it is broken or chipped, and gingivitis or gum disease. A toothache that is severe and continuous and results in gnawing or throbbing pain or sharp or shooting pain are common symptoms of an abscessed tooth. Other symptoms may include: 1  Fever. 2  Pain when chewing. 3  Sensitivity of the teeth to hot or cold. 4  Bitter taste in the mouth.