1. frequency-the number of occurrences within a given time period; the frequency of modulation was 40 cycles per second; the frequency of his seizures increased as he grew older. frequence, oftenness. 1. the state of being frequent; frequent occurrence. 2. the number of times that an event occurs within a given period; rate of recurrence. 3. (Mathematics) physics the number of times that a periodic function or vibration repeats itself in a specified time, often 1 second.
The number of oscillations (vibrations) in one second. Frequency is measured in Hertz (Hz), which is the same as oscillations per second or cycles per second.. For example, the alternating current in a wall outlet in the U.S. and Canada is 60Hz. See wavelength, frequency response, audio, carrier and space/time. Frequency. The frequency is the number of oscillations per second. The higher the frequency (the closer the ripples would be in this diagram) and the shorter the wavelength.
The number of cycles or repetitions of a periodic wave or signal per unit time. In electromagnetic radiation, frequency is usually expressed in units of hertz (Hz), where 1 Hz = 1 cycle per second. 1. the number of occurrences of a periodic process in a unit of time. 2. in statistics, the number of occurrences of a determinable entity per unit of time or of population. cumulative frequency. the graph of its cumulative frequencies. frequency distribution. see
Units. Frequency is expressed in units of cycles per unit time. Although frequency is a measurement of rate of movement, it is not identical to velocity. For example, if we think of a car that moves at 60 miles per hour, we mean just that. Wave frequency is also related to another measurement called the wave period (T). The wave period is just how much time it takes for one cycle to pass and the units are always in terms of time. The faster a wave moves, its wave period becomes smaller.
Wavelength is inversely proportional to frequency. That means if two waves are traveling at the same speed, the wave with a higher frequency will have a shorter wavelength. Likewise, if one wave has a longer wavelength than another wave, it will also have a lower frequency if both waves are traveling at the same speed. Therefore, the wavelength of an A4 sound wave at 68° F is 343 m/s / 440 hz, which equals 0.7795 meters, or 77.95 cm. Waves in the electromagnetic spectrum, such as radio waves and light waves, have much shorter wavelengths than sound waves.
Frequency. The frequency of a wave is the number of waves produced by a source each second. It is also the number of waves that pass a certain point each second. The unit of frequency is the hertz (Hz). It is common for kilohertz (kHz), megahertz (MHz) and gigahertz (GHz) to be used when waves have very high frequencies
1. Physics The number of complete cycles of a wave, such as a radio wave, that occur per second. See more at wave. 2. Mathematics The ratio of the number of occurrences of some event to the number of opportunities for its occurrence. 1. the state of being frequent; frequent occurrence. 2. the number of times that an event occurs within a given period; rate of recurrence. 3. (Mathematics) physics the number of times that a periodic function or vibration repeats itself in a specified time, often 1 second.
Frequency. Frequency is a measurement of how often a recurring event such as a wave occurs in a measured amount of time. One completion of the repeating pattern is called a cycle. Only moving waves which vary their positions with respect to time possess frequency. Frequency is one way to define how fast a wave moves. Wave frequency is also related to another measurement called the wave period (T). The wave period is just how much time it takes for one cycle to pass and the units are always in terms of time. The faster a wave moves, its wave period becomes smaller.
wave number-the reciprocal of the wavelength of a wave. attendance-the frequency with which a person is present; a student's attendance is an important factor in her grade. 1. the state of being frequent; frequent occurrence. 2. the number of times that an event occurs within a given period; rate of recurrence. 3. (Mathematics) physics the number of times that a periodic function or vibration repeats itself in a specified time, often 1 second.
The wavelength of a wave is the distance between a point on one wave and the same point on the next wave. It is often easiest to measure this from the crest of one wave to the crest of the next wave, but it doesn't matter where as long as it is the same point in each wave. The frequency of a wave is the number of waves produced by a source each second. It is also the number of waves that pass a certain point