P-TMA is considered a secondary form of TMA. It accounts for 8%–18% of all cases of TMA (24, 26, 40, 41). In the French aHUS registry, one of five women presented with aHUS at the time of pregnancy (24). Other causes include postabortum (first trimester) or puerperal sepsis, ante-or postpartum hemorrhage, intrauterine death, acute fatty liver, and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). The main causes of P-AKI are shown in Figure 1 according to their predominant timing of occurrence during pregnancy.
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (or haemolytic-uraemic syndrome), abbreviated HUS, is a disease characterized by hemolytic anemia (anemia caused by destruction of red blood cells), acute kidney failure (uremia), and a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia). It predominantly, but not exclusively, affects children. HUS develops about 5–10 days after onset of diarrhea, with decreased urine output (oliguria), blood in the urine (hematuria), kidney failure, thrombocytopenia (low levels of platelets) and destruction of red blood cells (microangiopathic hemolytic anemia). Hypertension is common.
Bacterial toxins are the primary cause of one category of thrombotic microangiopathy known as HUS or hemolytic uremic syndrome. HUS can be divided into two main categories: Shiga-toxin-associated HUS (STx-HUS), which normally presents with diarrhea, and atypical HUS. Generally, renal complications are particularly predominant with Shiga-toxin-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome (STx-HUS) and atypical HUS, whereas neurologic complications are more likely with TTP. Individuals with milder forms of TTP may have recurrent symptomatic episodes, including seizures and vision loss.
NS: CNI-TMA is an idiosyncratic reaction that can cause both AKI and CKD, and occurs any time post transplantation. TA-TMA happens typically six months to one year after patient receive a HSCT. While CNI-TMA is an idiosyncratic reaction, TA-TMA is the result of many other factors. Lactate dehydrogenase levels are in much higher range in TA-TMA compared to CNI-TMA.
In all, the incidence of P-AKI has probably decreased, but its fetal and maternal morbidity remain unacceptably high, even in developed countries. Pregnancy hypertensive complications, notably HELLP syndrome, are the leading cause of P-AKI. P-TMA is a clinically challenging cause of P-AKI. Other causes include postabortum (first trimester) or puerperal sepsis, ante-or postpartum hemorrhage, intrauterine death, acute fatty liver, and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). The main causes of P-AKI are shown in Figure 1 according to their predominant timing of occurrence during pregnancy.
Other conditions with TMA include atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome, disseminated intravascular coagulation, scleroderma renal crisis, malignant hypertension, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome, and drug toxicities, e.g. calcineurin inhibitor toxicity. Generally, renal complications are particularly predominant with Shiga-toxin-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome (STx-HUS) and atypical HUS, whereas neurologic complications are more likely with TTP. Individuals with milder forms of TTP may have recurrent symptomatic episodes, including seizures and vision loss.
The findings in this study suggests TMA as a plausible causative pathology of AKI in hump-nosed viper envenoming, probably due to continuous glomerular ischaemia secondary to thrombosis in the microvasculature leading to patchy cortical necrosis with delayed or partial recovery of renal functions. So far, there is no clear understanding of the mechanism of acute kidney injury in hump-nosed viper bite and a few studies have shown extensive damage to renal glomeruli (Ariaratnam et al., 2008; Kularatne and Ratnatunga, 1999).
Thrombotic microangiopathy, abbreviated TMA, is a pathology that results in thrombosis in capillaries and arterioles, due to an endothelial injury. It may be seen in association with thrombocytopenia, anemia, purpura and renal failure. Generally, renal complications are particularly predominant with Shiga-toxin-associated hemolytic uremic syndrome (STx-HUS) and atypical HUS, whereas neurologic complications are more likely with TTP. Individuals with milder forms of TTP may have recurrent symptomatic episodes, including seizures and vision loss.
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) exposes the kidney to a multitude of injuries, including acute kidney injury (AKI), hypertension, glomerular disease, and chronic kidney disease (CKD). A common pathology noted in most of these patients is a renal-limited thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). TA-TMA happens typically six months to one year after patient receive a HSCT. While CNI-TMA is an idiosyncratic reaction, TA-TMA is the result of many other factors. Lactate dehydrogenase levels are in much higher range in TA-TMA compared to CNI-TMA.
However, the incidence of P-AKI is declining even in developing countries (5, 6). In a recent survey of P-AKI in an Indian nephrology center, the prevalence of P-AKI among all cases of AKI decreased from 15% in the 1980s to 10% in the 1990s. Other causes include postabortum (first trimester) or puerperal sepsis, ante-or postpartum hemorrhage, intrauterine death, acute fatty liver, and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA). The main causes of P-AKI are shown in Figure 1 according to their predominant timing of occurrence during pregnancy.