Lipid molecules are slightly soluble to insoluble in water. Lipids are hydrophobic because the molecules consist of long, 16-18 carbon, hydrocarbon backbones with only a small amount of oxygen containing groups. Lipids serve many functions in organisms. 
One type of lipid monomer, a fatty acid, consists of one carboxyl group at the end of a linear hydrocarbon containing at least four carbon atoms. Because hydrocarbon chains are nonpolar, fatty acids with long hydrocarbon chains are mainly hydrophobic (insoluble in water) despite having one polar functional group. Unlike other biomolecule groups, fatty acid monomers are not directly bonded to each other in polymer chains. Lipids are insoluble biomolecules, defined by an overall lack of polarity necessary for solubility in water-based solutions. In popular culture, fats are synonymous with lipids, giving lipids a negative role in diet and health.
Fats. Fats are large molecules made of two types of molecules, glycerol and some type of fatty acid. The fatty acid has a long chain of carbon and hydrogen, usually referred to as the hydrocarbon tail, with a carboxyl group head. (The carboxyl group is why its called an acid). Glycerol has three carbons (3.8b, pg 40) so it can get three fatty acids. These can be the same three or different. These are known as macromolecules. Most macromolecules are polymers, which are long chains of subunits called monomers. These subunits are often very similar to each other, and for all the diversity of polymers (and living things in general) there are only about 40 - 50 common monomers.
Organic Macromolecules. 1  Organic compounds are those that contain carbon (e.g. carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids). 2  For example, a piece of human liver contains 80% water, 12% protein, 5% fats, 2% nucleic acids, 1% carbohydrate and less than 1% of other substances. 1 Proteins are macromolecules made from amino acids, nucleic acids are made from nucleotides, carbohydrates are made from monosaccharides or simple sugars, and lipids are made from fatty acids and glycerol.
Waxes ar e a class of lipids that contain two monomers, one fatty acid bonded through an ester linkage to one alcohol (a hydrocarbon containing a hydroxyl group). The hydrocarbon chain in the alcohol monomer of waxes varies from a short linear chain to complex carbon ring structures. Lipids are insoluble biomolecules, defined by an overall lack of polarity necessary for solubility in water-based solutions. In popular culture, fats are synonymous with lipids, giving lipids a negative role in diet and health.
Fats are a class of lipids containing two kinds of monomers, fatty acids and glycerol. Glycerol is a three carbon biomolecule containing three hydroxyl groups, one bonded to each carbon atom. Dehydration synthesis creates an ester linkage between the carboxyl group of fatty acids and a hydroxyl group in glycerol. Lipids are insoluble biomolecules, defined by an overall lack of polarity necessary for solubility in water-based solutions. In popular culture, fats are synonymous with lipids, giving lipids a negative role in diet and health.
1 Organic compounds are those that contain carbon (e.g. carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids). 2  For example, a piece of human liver contains 80% water, 12% protein, 5% fats, 2% nucleic acids, 1% carbohydrate and less than 1% of other substances. 3  Many organic molecules are assembled from small repeated units. 1 Proteins are macromolecules made from amino acids, nucleic acids are made from nucleotides, carbohydrates are made from monosaccharides or simple sugars, and lipids are made from fatty acids and glycerol.
Triacylglycerol = A fat composed of three fatty acids bonded to one glycerol  by ester linkages (triglyceride).   Some characteristics of fat include:  o Fats are insoluble in water. The long fatty acid chains are hydrophobic because  of the many nonpolar CH bonds.  o The source of variation among fat molecules is the fatty acid composition. B. Polysaccharides, the polymers of sugars,  have storage and structural roles  Polysaccharides = Macromolecules that are polymers of a few hundred or thousand  monosaccharides.  o Are formed by linking monomers in enzyme-mediated condensation reactions  o Have two important biological functions:  1.
Macromolecular chemistry (from macro = large) is the study of the physical, biological and chemical structure, properties, composition, and reaction mechanisms of macromolecules. A macromolecule is a molecule that consists of one or more types of repeated 'building blocks'. In proteins, the amide bond is known as a peptide bond and consists of the following pairing: left-chain-CO-NH-right chain (the C and the O are bound by a double bond, the N and H with a single bond, the combination is a carbonyl group).
1 Proteins are macromolecules that consist of long, unbranched chains of amino acids. 2  These chains may contain about 20 up to hundreds of amino acids. 3  An example of the size of proteins is the red pigment in red blood cells called haemoglobin with the chemical formula-C 3032 H 4816 O 872 N 780 S 8 Fe 4. 1 Proteins are macromolecules made from amino acids, nucleic acids are made from nucleotides, carbohydrates are made from monosaccharides or simple sugars, and lipids are made from fatty acids and glycerol.