July 23, 2015 -- Lisa Baxter carefully reads food ingredient labels when she buys groceries. She carries around a list of things she can and can’t eat, and she has to be extra cautious of food ingredients using the word “phosphate.”. Phosphates leave a metallic taste in her mouth, and they make her very itchy. “I feel like I have fleas,” says Baxter, 52, a social worker from Queens, N.Y. Phosphorus is found naturally in dairy, meat, and plants. It's needed to help cells work properly. Phosphates enhance flavor and moistness in deli meats, frozen food, cereals, cheese, and baked goods, as well as in sodas and prepared iced tea mixes.
Phosphate in food is ‘health risk’ that should be labelled, claim researchers. By Nathan Gray Nathan Gray, 20-Feb-2012. Food products with high phosphate contents are damaging to the health of the general public, and as such should be labelled, say researchers behind a new study. Related tags: Food additive, Phosphates, Labelling. Food products with high phosphate contents are damaging to the health of the general public, and as such should be labelled, say researchers behind a new study.
Read More: The 15 Grossest Things You're Eating. Listed under names like sodium phosphate, calcium phosphate and phosphoric acid, there are 45 different phosphate-containing food additives used in hundreds of processed foods, and unless you're a dedicated ingredient-list reader, you'd have no idea they're there. Sodium, trans fats, hidden calories, genetically modified ingredients: Those are all good reasons to give up processed junk. And if you need one—or 45—more, there are phosphates, food additives that doctors are linking to higher rates of chronic kidney disease, weak bones, and premature death.
Food phosphates. Haifa is a leading developer, producer and marketer of food phosphates for all segments of food and beverage industry, including Bakery, Meat, Poultry, Fish, Dairy and Vegetable processing. Haifa's food phosphates include sodium, potassium and calcium phosphates, straight phosphates and special blend
“Furthermore, calls for labelling the content of added phosphate in food are appropriate,” they added. Phosphates. Natural (organic) phosphate esters are found mainly in protein-rich foods, including dairy products, fish, meat, sausages, and eggs. Ritz and his team explained that these compounds are slowly broken down in the gastrointestinal tract and then slowly resorbed from the intestine. Related tags: Food additive, Phosphates, Labelling. Food products with high phosphate contents are damaging to the health of the general public, and as such should be labelled, say researchers behind a new study.
Sodium Phosphate is a generic term for the salts of sodium and phosphate. There are three which are; Monosodium phosphate, Disodium phosphate and Trisodium phosphate. [1]. Uses. Sodium phosphates are used as food additives. Sodium phosphates are added to many foods as an emulsifier to prevent oil separation. Some examples are processed cheeses, processed meats, ready-made meals and tinned (canned) soups. Sodium phosphates are also commonly added to powdered soups, boullions and gravy mixtures. Sodium phosphates can also be used as a leavening agent. Some examples of these foods include the batter coating on breaded fish or chicken, and commercially baked cakes. Adding sodium phosphates to food increases the shelf life of the food; maintaining the texture and appearance of the food. [1].
Call Us Toll-Free 1.800.578.6800. In many ways phosphates are unsung heroes of food ingredients and manufacturing. Phosphates play many roles and are used as dietary supplements in a tremendous number of products including cereals, enriched flour, and many pastas and other noodle products. In nutraceutical industries and food manufacturing, phosphates are often used as: Problem solving considerations for phosphates include: Cooperative Purchasers works with the leading manufacturers of all types of phosphates including monocalcium phosphate, monosodium phosphate, dicalcium phosphate, and disodium phosphate, among many, many others.
In cosmetics and personal care products, the Sodium Phosphate ingredients are used in the formulation of bath products, colognes, dentifrices, mouthwashes, hair conditioners, hair dyes and colors, permanent waves, shampoos, makeup and skin care products. 
Direct food additives are those that are added to a food for a specific purpose in that food. For example, xanthan gum -- used in salad dressings, chocolate milk, bakery fillings, puddings and other foods to add texture -- is a direct additive. Most direct additives are identified on the ingredient label of foods.