1 If you are going to reheat the chicken immediately, place the frozen chicken in a water-proof Ziploc bag and run cold water over it until it thaws. 2  You can also thaw it in the microwave on the “Defrost” setting. A non-stick pan is ideal for reheating chicken — especially when the skin has been left on the meat, since the fatty skin tends to stick to heated pans. 1  You should be able to feel heat emanating off the pan when you place your hand two inches above it.
Most people reheat their food to warm or even hot but not cooking temperature. Unless you reheat to an internal temperature of 74° C / 165° F, then all that time in the danger zone after cooking is cumulative. 
RE: How many times can you safely reheat chicken once it has been cooked? For example, a chicken curry made at lunchtime, reheated through to eat at dinner, but is it then ok to reheat anything left for lunch the following day? Assuming the chicken is heated thoroughly. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I've reheated chicken twice with no problems, as long as you make sure it is 'piping hot' there shouldn't be any safety issues. Course I have a cast iron constitution... if you are prone to stomach problems then I wouldn't risk it.
Report Abuse. Once the chicken is fully cooked to 180 degrees there is very little chance of getting salmonella or other bacterial problems as long as you refrigerate promptly... The problem is with raw chicken and it's juices. You can reheat in a microwave or the oven. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I've reheated chicken twice with no problems, as long as you make sure it is 'piping hot' there shouldn't be any safety issues. Course I have a cast iron constitution... if you are prone to stomach problems then I wouldn't risk it.
Place it in the refrigerator for several (6-8) hours before reheating it to slowly bring the temperature up. 1  If you are going to reheat the chicken immediately, place the frozen chicken in a water-proof Ziploc bag and run cold water over it until it thaws. A non-stick pan is ideal for reheating chicken — especially when the skin has been left on the meat, since the fatty skin tends to stick to heated pans. 1  You should be able to feel heat emanating off the pan when you place your hand two inches above it.
8) Leftover chicken should be safe to eat for two to three days – but use your brain. If it smells off, it probably is. 9) if you are reheating cooked chicken, make sure the chicken is piping hot throughout. This is especially important if you are reheating it in a microwave, which doesn't always cook evenly. 10) If you are freezing chicken, do so immediately after buying. 
Reheating Leftovers without Thawing It is safe to reheat frozen leftovers without thawing them first. Frozen leftovers can be reheated in a sauce-pan, microwave, or in the oven. Reheating will take longer than if the food is thawed first, but it is safe to do when time is short. Reheat Leftovers Safely When reheating leftovers, be sure they reach 165° F as measured with a food thermometer. When reheating in the microwave, cover and rotate the food for even heating. Arrange food items evenly in a covered microwave safe glass or ceramic dish, and add some liquid if needed. Be sure the covering is micro-wave safe, and vent the lid or wrap to let the steam escape.
Four Methods: Reheating in Microwave Reheating on a Stovetop Reheating Chicken in an Oven Reheating a Whole Store-Bought Rotisserie Chicken in an Oven. Chicken makes for a delicious and cost-efficient meal, but it has a tendency to dry out when you reheat it for leftovers. A non-stick pan is ideal for reheating chicken — especially when the skin has been left on the meat, since the fatty skin tends to stick to heated pans. 1  You should be able to feel heat emanating off the pan when you place your hand two inches above it.
Once the oven has preheated, place the chicken in the oven. If the chicken has been cut into small pieces, it may take only a few minutes to reheat properly. If you are reheating large pieces, like whole breasts, you may have to wait longer. A non-stick pan is ideal for reheating chicken — especially when the skin has been left on the meat, since the fatty skin tends to stick to heated pans. 1  You should be able to feel heat emanating off the pan when you place your hand two inches above it.