Snapchat is unique in that all photos and videos only last a brief amount of time before they disappear forever, making the app ephemeral in nature, though users can take a screenshot to save snaps. As of May 2014, the app's users were sending 700 million photos/videos per day. Sending Stories. To send a story, which is basically a snap that exists for 24 hours and can be mass-sent to all your friends, tap the story button from the preview screen. It's right next to the download button. If you send a story, your friends will be able to view it an unlimited number of times in one day.
Snap: A snap is a photo or video taken with Snapchat. You can send a snap to a Snapchatter (or multiple snaps to multiple snapchatters), but it can only be viewed by the recipient for a limited amount of time (1 to 10 seconds). Snapback: A Snapback is a reply to your Snap. Sending Stories. To send a story, which is basically a snap that exists for 24 hours and can be mass-sent to all your friends, tap the story button from the preview screen. It's right next to the download button. If you send a story, your friends will be able to view it an unlimited number of times in one day.
How to Increase Your Snapchat Score. The obvious way to increase your Snapchat score is to send and receive more Snaps. Send your friends videos, text or photo snaps more frequently and your score will increase. However, this may be a long and hard process if you are trying to boost your score to a high level. The easiest way to increase your Snapchat score is to use a Snapchat score hack. The actual purpose of the Snapchat score is still not known, but there doesn't seem to be any way to use your points or get any perks from having a high score. It is a sign of how active you are as a user of Snapchat and can be a social status symbol.
Your Snapchat Score is the total number of snaps you have sent and received. To view your score, go to the page where you can view the snaps you have received. Tap Snapchat at the top, and your score will appear. Your score shows two numbers in the format sent | received.. Tap Snapchat to view your Snapchat score.
Scores: Your Score is the total number of Snaps you have sent and received. It appears next to your name in friends' contact lists and vice versa. Chat: Chat is a feature that lets you privately message with friends on Snapchat. Here: Here is a sub-feature within Chat. Sending Stories. To send a story, which is basically a snap that exists for 24 hours and can be mass-sent to all your friends, tap the story button from the preview screen. It's right next to the download button. If you send a story, your friends will be able to view it an unlimited number of times in one day.
Snapchat explains that your score basically represents the total number of snaps you have both sent and received. It's as simple as that. So, the more snaps that you send out to friends and receive back from them, the higher your score will be. Remember, you can increase your score simply by adding more friends and increasing your Snapchat interaction. So get snapping! For more about how Snapchat works, check out our articles on Snapchat stories, Snapchat best friends and Snapchat screenshots.
The second is the number of Snaps you've received. Screenshot. Snapchat says your score is the combined number of Snaps you've sent and received. You get one point for every Snap you send and a point for every Snap you receive. You don't get points for your Snapchat Stories. You can view your Snapchat score by going to your profile page, which you access by tapping on the white ghost on the default page of Snapchat's app.
Snapchat Score is an algorithm that generate a number based on how many you have send snaps or recieved. The stories you have posted and other snapchat features that you have use are also count. and this is how the snapchat scoring works: For a snap that you have sent, you will get 12 points for the first 3 and 20 points for each thereafter that you send to the same user. While best friend score on snapchat is the top 3 friends of you who send you snaps the most. Advertisement
How To Find Your Snapchat Score. Every user on Snapchat has a score tethered to their activity. The score is a sum of the number of snaps sent and snaps received. To increase your score quickly, users can send snaps to everyone on your friends list and open every snap that you receive. 5. Every user on Snapchat has a score tethered to their activity. The score is a sum of the number of snaps sent and snaps received. To increase your score quickly, users can send snaps to everyone on your friends list and open every snap that you receive.