Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, can be multicellular or unicellular, autotrophic or heterotrophic, reproduce sexually or asexually, and have cell walls made of a variety of different things? These organisms are the oddballs of the scientific world. Which kingdom has organisms that are prokaryotic, unicellular, can be autotrophs or heterotrophs, reproduce asexually, and have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan? Organisms in this kingdom can live in EXTREME environments.
The plantae kingdom has organisms that are multicellular, eukaryotic, and autotrophic. Kingdom Animalia is the kingdom you're looking for-it is inside the domain Eukaryota, meaning the organisms within it are eukaryotic; all organisms are multicellular; and no … organism inside the kingdom can fix carbon.
3) Fungi have the same characteristics as Plants except that Fungi are heterotrophic & Plants are autotrophic, and their cell walls are different. 4) Animals are the only motile multicellular group. 5) Most of the autotrophic organism we study have chlorophyll which gives them a greenish appearance. So being green is an important clue --- it indicates they are autotrophic (ex: blue-green algae, algae, plants).
Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, can be multicellular or unicellular, reproduce sexually and asexually, and have cell walls made of chitin? Organisms in this kingdom include mushrooms, molds, and yeasts. Which kingdom has organisms that are prokaryotic, unicellular, can be autotrophs or heterotrophs, reproduce asexually, and have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan? Organisms in this kingdom can live in EXTREME environments.
Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, multicellular, heterotrophic, can reproduce sexually or asexually, and have NO CELL WALL? Mammals, amphibians, reptiles, birds, fish, mollusks, and insects are all included in this kingdom. Which kingdom has organisms that are prokaryotic, unicellular, can be autotrophs or heterotrophs, reproduce asexually, and have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan? Organisms in this kingdom can live in EXTREME environments.
The kingdom of protists has both heterotrophs, autotrophs, and uni/multicellular organisms. Kingdom Animalia is the kingdom you're looking for-it is inside the domain Eukaryota, meaning the organisms within it are eukaryotic; all organisms are multicellular; and no … organism inside the kingdom can fix carbon.
This Site Might Help You. RE: autotrophic or heterotrophic kingdoms? could you guys help me? I need to know what kingdoms are autotrophic and heterotrophic out of the 6 kingdoms (Archea bacteria, Eubacteria, Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia). its only a small section of my bio homework, but it would help me a bunch :) THANKS! Source(s): autotrophic heterotrophic kingdoms: https://shortly.im/RFLx5. 