Tropical soils may often be described as being thin. This is certainly not so-did you know that tropical soils are among the deepest in the world! Many tropical soils have been under forest cover for millions of years. The thin layer of topsoil is the engine house for the food supply for the tropical forest and, together with climate, is responsible for the maintenance of the huge biomass. This is surely one of the most incredible cycles in nature-and it works. The tropical rainforest is often in the news for various reasons.
Typically, because the heavy nutrient cycling of tropical rain forests are so high, the top soil in these forests is very shallow-perhaps less than a meter. Once the forest i … s gone and the soil is used for farmland, it will never come back..... Less than 1 % of the light that strikes the top of the forest penetrates to the forest floor. The top soil is very thin and of poor quality. A lot of litter falls to the ground where it is quickly broken down by decomposers like termites, earthworms and fungi. The heat and humidity further help to break down the litter.
There are two types of rainforests-temperate and tropical. Tropical and temperate rainforests have some things in common. Both have very dense vegetation. Trees in temperate and tropical rainforests have trunks that flare out at the bottom and both types of rainforests are endangered biomes. Epiphytes like orchids and some bromeliads don't grow in the soil. They hang from trees and get their nutrients from the moisture and dust in the air. The tropical rainforest is also home to nepenthes or pitcher plants. These are plants that grow in the soil. They have leaves that form a cup where moisture gathers.
The soil in the tropical rain forest is very nutrient poor. It's poor because the topsoil is only one to two inches thick and the soil beneath it is mostly clay and rocks. It … also has been here for millions of years so the soil gas taken quite a beating. Plus, when it rains the water washes away all the minerals. 
Submit. Australia's soil is composed of several different types, each distinguished by its consistency, primary materials, surrounding environment and climate. The Australian soil-classification system is specifically formulated to differentiate between the many types of dry soil found on the continent. 
Discover Australia's magical, World Heritage-listed rainforests. They stretch across the country and cover every climatic type. Explore the dense tropical swathe of Queensland's Daintree Rainforest or trek through Tasmania's cool temperate wilderness. New South Wales. The Gondwana Rainforests of Australia spill across 50 separate parks in northern New South Wales and south-east Queensland. Accessible from Byron Bay, this vast World Heritage-listed area embraces the world’s largest subtropical rainforest, along with warm and cool temperate rainforest types.
The Tropical Rainforest. The tropical rainforest is a forest type that captures huge attention from the public. It is undoubtedly one of the most fascinating interactions between climate, vegetation and organisms, and soil that exists in the world today. The rainforests which previously occupied up to 24 million square kilometres today occupy only some 10 million square kilometres on either side of the equator. The thin layer of topsoil is the engine house for the food supply for the tropical forest and, together with climate, is responsible for the maintenance of the huge biomass. This is surely one of the most incredible cycles in nature-and it works. The tropical rainforest is often in the news for various reasons.
There are two types of rainforest: tropical rainforest and temperate rainforest. The monsoon trough, alternatively known as the intertropical convergence zone, plays a significant role in creating the climatic conditions necessary for the Earth 's tropical rainforests. The undergrowth in some areas of a rainforest can be restricted by poor penetration of sunlight to ground level. If the leaf canopy is destroyed or thinned, the ground beneath is soon colonized by a dense, tangled growth of vines, shrubs and small trees, called a jungle.
Soils. The bulk of the world's tropical rainforests, including the Amazon, contain laterite soils. Such soils lack nutrients and are very acidic. Many tropical rainforest soils lack minerals such as calcium, magnesium, phosphorous and potassium, making them old soils in the sense that they have no new nutrients. An abundance of iron and aluminum oxide gives tropical rainforest soils its red or yellow coloring