VSEPR is a model used to predict shapes of molecules. Electron pairs repel each other, and adopt an arrangement that minimises repulsion. 
The VSEPR theory assumes that each atom in a molecule will achieve a geometry that minimizes the repulsion between electrons in the valence shell of that atom. The five compounds shown in the figure below can be used to demonstrate how the VSEPR theory can be applied to simple molecules. The VSEPR theory therefore predicts a trigonal planar geometry for the BF 3 molecule, with a F-B-F bond angle of 120 o. BeF 2 and BF 3 are both two-dimensional molecules, in which the atoms lie in the same plane.
Molecule shapes can be predicted based on Lewis dot structure using the VSEPR theory. VSEPR stands for Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion. It states that electron pairs in the valence shell of an atom repel each other; their molecular geometry is the result of this repulsion. We can apply the Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion theory, usually referred to as the VSEPR theory, to predict the shape of any molecule given its Lewis dot structure. Before we jump into the VSEPR theory, let's review a few things about electrons. 1  Electrons are negatively charged particles.
There is no direct relationship between the formula of a compound and the shape of its molecules. The shapes of these molecules can be predicted from their Lewis structures, however, with a model developed about 30 years ago, known as the valence-shell electron-pair repulsion (VSEPR) theory. The VSEPR theory therefore predicts a trigonal planar geometry for the BF 3 molecule, with a F-B-F bond angle of 120 o. BeF 2 and BF 3 are both two-dimensional molecules, in which the atoms lie in the same plane.
Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion (VSEPR) Theory is a simple, qualitative model that allows the prediction of an approximate molecular shape, given a valid Lewis structure of a molecule. VSEPR theory treats each pair of electrons at an atom  either bonds or lone pairs  as a localized region of electron density, directed outward from the atomic centre. The predicted molecular shape will be such that the bonds and lone pairs are arranged so as to minimize repulsions and maximize the space among them.
Valence shell electron pair repulsion (VSEPR) theory is a model used, in chemistry, to predict the geometry of individual molecules from the number of electron pairs surrounding their central atoms. The bonding electron pair shared in a sigma bond with an adjacent atom lies further from the central atom than a nonbonding (lone) pair of that atom, which is held close to its positively charged nucleus. VSEPR theory therefore views repulsion by the lone pair to be greater than the repulsion by a bonding pair.
There are several models used in chemistry to predict the shapes of molecular structures. An important intorductory model is the Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion model, or VSEPR. The VSEPR model is a useful starting point to approximate three-dimensional structures of molecules. Refinement of the VSEPR Model Lone electron pairs, which are not confined between nuclei, use more space than do bonding pairs, which are restricted to the narrow space between their two nuclei. The “fat” lone pairs distort the ideal electron-pair geometries predicted by VSEPR theory.
It has four electron pairs, and thus VSEPR predicts a tetrahedral geometry with 109.5° bond angles. However, one of the four is a lone pair, taking up more space, and so the three bonding electron pairs are squeezed together slightly. The experimentally measured H–N–H bond angle in ammonia is, in fact, 107.3°. Refinement of the VSEPR Model Lone electron pairs, which are not confined between nuclei, use more space than do bonding pairs, which are restricted to the narrow space between their two nuclei. The “fat” lone pairs distort the ideal electron-pair geometries predicted by VSEPR theory.
VSEPR and Molecular Geometry. VSEPR stands for Valence Shell Electron Pair Repulsion, which is a theory that chemists use to predict the shape and bond angles of different molecules. VSPER is pronounced ves-per in everyday use. Basically, the theory says that the valence electron pairs around an atom repel each other mutuall
The premise of VSEPR is that the valence electron pairs surrounding an atom tend to repel each other, and will therefore adopt an arrangement that minimizes this repulsion, thus determining the molecule's geometry. The bonding electron pair shared in a sigma bond with an adjacent atom lies further from the central atom than a nonbonding (lone) pair of that atom, which is held close to its positively charged nucleus. VSEPR theory therefore views repulsion by the lone pair to be greater than the repulsion by a bonding pair.