Buy Traps! To use the traps most effectively for brown recluse spiders, place traps in closets or other secluded areas where you have seen spiders and/or webs. Brown Recluse spiders are known for their reclusive nature and avoid humans. However, despite their reclusive nature, they do bite humans. 
Wolf spiders live on every continent except Antarctica, in temperate to warm climates. This includes Canada, the US, England, Europe (especially southern Europe), Africa, South America, and southeast Asia. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Wolf Spiders live in a variety of places that consist of both coastal and inland. Which include wet coastal forests, suburban gardens, and even woodlands. Some build burrows that are either opened or have a trap door.
Hobo Spiders live in the Northern United States as well as Canada. They can be found anywhere in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado,and Southern British Columbia. We feel that it is likely that there are Hobos in Northern California. The Red areas of the maps show regions with Hobo Spiders. Brown Recluse Spiders live in the southern United States from California to Florida and up to Nebraska & Missouri and over to Virginia. The slashed lines on the map show regions with Brown Recluse Spiders
Spiders live all over the world, but few are native to more than a few habitats. They are well-adapted to various conditions, but thrive in warmer climates (in Antarctica, stowaway spiders are dependent on humans habitations for shelter). Essentially, spiders are found everywhere except for on the Antarctic mainland. Surprisingly, spiders the size of dinner plates have been found on the seabed far below the surface of Antarctic waters. Many spiders spin webs in tree branches, but some live in holes that they disguise with their webs.
Cancel. Spiders live all over the world, including trees, dry areas, wet areas, under ground and in the oceans. Discover the different varieties of spiders on the earth with information from a science teacher in this free video on spider habitats. 
Answer: Most spiders do not live but a few months because predators, parasites, and diseases kill them long before they age to death. Those that complete their life cycle typically last at least a year, from egg stage to adult. Spiders kept in captivity have demonstrated surprising longevity, however. 
Spiders are able to live just about anywhere and that is why there is such diversification out there. They are ranked at #7 when it comes to the most diversified living creatures in the world. That gives you a good idea of the spectrum of how they have branched out. 
Spiders live in almost every habitat on earth. The only places where there are no spiders are the polar regions, the highest mountains and the oceans. A few spider species have invaded the ocean's edge, living in the rock and coral crevices of the intertidal zone.
Although most spiders live for at most two years, tarantulas and other mygalomorph spiders can live up to 25 years in captivity. While the venom of a few species is dangerous to humans, scientists are now researching the use of spider venom in medicine and as non-polluting pesticides. 