1 Take the fast and fun style quiz to discover your unique style DNA. 2  Receive personal style and shopping recommendations in your style file. 3  Discover the colours which make you feel and look younger.Free personal colour recommendations. 4  Free guides to how to look your best and what to wear for your body shape and age. 'Everyone is different and has their own style DNA. You cannot hope to look your best by copying someone else. Stylish dressing and savvy shopping takes strategy' Michaela Jedinak, personal stylist and founder Joy of Clothes.
1. Your personality is often a strong indicator of what type of style suits you best. For example a woman who is soft-spoken and likes to daydream usually gravitates towards frilly pieces like lace and ruffles. A culture-loving person tends to dress more urban and sporty than most fashionistas. 
Joy of Clothes, your personal stylist. 1  Take the fast and fun style quiz to discover your unique style DNA. 2  Receive personal style and shopping recommendations in your style file. 3  Discover the colours which make you feel and look younger.Free personal colour recommendations. 'Everyone is different and has their own style DNA. You cannot hope to look your best by copying someone else. Stylish dressing and savvy shopping takes strategy' Michaela Jedinak, personal stylist and founder Joy of Clothes.
Because it helps you become more aware of where you are in your style journey and reflect on how you want to dress and if your current personal style truly reflects who you are. To steer you in the right direction, I've created a 8-question fashion style quiz that will uncover your dominant fashion persona. People may comment on how your clothes look great but it doesn't necessarily mean that the garments look good on you. This discomfort often shows and will lead to an unflattering fashion victim'y or lost fashionista look. But when you stay with your true clothing personality you'll naturally feel good.
The fashion style quiz focuses on your dominant clothing personality. I recently had to remove some categories and update the quiz (July 2012), because the overlapping groups confused a lot of you. People may comment on how your clothes look great but it doesn't necessarily mean that the garments look good on you. This discomfort often shows and will lead to an unflattering fashion victim'y or lost fashionista look. But when you stay with your true clothing personality you'll naturally feel good.
A fashion style quiz will give you an idea of what fashion style suits you, and may be an indicator of your dominant core, true clothing personality (or fashion persona). Inner beauty may be more important, but exterior beauty has immediate impact. – Daniel Goh, editor of Style Magazine. People may comment on how your clothes look great but it doesn't necessarily mean that the garments look good on you. This discomfort often shows and will lead to an unflattering fashion victim'y or lost fashionista look. But when you stay with your true clothing personality you'll naturally feel good.
Please answer this question. 1  I am a man. 2  I am a woman. 3  I am a man, but I wear women's fashion sometimes. 4  I am a woman, but my style is unisex. Whatever is the latest and greatest in fashion, you already have it in your closet. Any street you walk down is your own runway.
You're athletic and prefer function over fashion. You wear your hair in a pony tail and don't sweat fashion. You're too concerned with maintaining a healthy birthday suit to worry about a three-piece suit. Whatever is the latest and greatest in fashion, you already have it in your closet. Any street you walk down is your own runway.