Precision Tools. Your parrot's beak is powerful and it's precise. Parrots use their beaks to eat a variety of foods that require something other than sheer force to consume. For example, a parrot may use his beak like a surgical scalpel to removing seeds from their casings or to peel fruit.
Though Macaws, especially the large Macaws, have a daunting presence and formidable beaks, they are highly intelligent. These stunning birds show exquisite control, selectively using their powerful beaks with finesse.
Parrots are often called hookbills, which is an avicultural term based on the shape of the beak or bill. This distinguishes parrots from softbills and other birds, such as doves and finches.
Hooked beaks have an upper mandible that is longer than the lower mandible. The upper part of the beak also hooks over the lower part. This type of beak is found in many types of birds that need to tear and shred their food such as hawks, owls, and parrots.
Hyacinth macaws are one of the largest species of parrot. They are beautiful, smart, and can even mimic human speech. They have a blue body of feathers, a solid black beak, and yellow circling their eyes and lower part of their beak. They nest in pre-existing holes in trees with a clutch of two to three eggs.
Macaws are the largest of all parrots. There are 16 different species of macaws and they range in size from a little over three feet to one foot. They have beautiful, graceful, tails that are as long or longer than their bodies. They also have long, pointed wings that enable them to fly swiftly.
The macaw has a large and powerful beak which means that the macaw can break the shells of nuts and seeds more easily. Like other species of parrot, macaws have four toes on each foot, with two toes facing forward and two toes facing backward.
Parrot beaks are extremely strong, and one of their primary tools for protecting themselves. The same beak strength a parrot uses to take down would-be predators allows him to enjoy a varied diet -- instead of just eating small or soft foods, he can easily bust open nuts and seeds that have hard outer shells.