You have to stimulate yourself, till the point an orgasm is  reached.   Run your hands slowly along your penis. Then wet your hands and rub  them faster. Continue rubbing and every once and a while squeeze  your butt while rubbing. If you are feeling like doing it at the moment, you can try to  block or compete with the thoughts. You can force yourself to  meditate. You can just focus on your breathing … for a while.  Concentrate on each breath and ignore any thoughts that come up.  Or, you can try saying a mantra out loud, over and over.
To have an orgasm (this is for women), use your middle finger on the hand you write with. Move down from the belly-button, and when you feel the bump, the long one right a … bove your vagina, gently circle it. For most it takes around 5-10 minutes to climax or orgasm. If you are feeling like doing it at the moment, you can try to  block or compete with the thoughts. You can force yourself to  meditate. You can just focus on your breathing … for a while.  Concentrate on each breath and ignore any thoughts that come up.  Or, you can try saying a mantra out loud, over and over.
I think that in order for you to reach orgasm with someone else, it is better to learn to do it by yourself first. The reason being, the majority of women do not experience orgasm through intercourse alone. It is only after you know what kinds of touch you like that you can let your lover know how to please you. 
And it can be even harder to figure out how to have one. If you’ve ever wondered how to orgasm, don’t worry: you’re totally not alone. It’s really easy for guys to get off, but unfortunately, it’s not so simple for us girls. Things down there are a little bit more complicated. Kegels will strengthen your vaginal muscles and can make it easier for you to orgasm. Do them by tightening and then relaxing your vaginal muscles (think about what you do when you really have to pee). You can do these anywhere at any time without anyone noticing.
Answer by SpyFiction. Confidence votes 4. To have an orgasm (this is for women), use your middle finger on the hand you write with. Move down from the belly-button, and when you feel the bump, the long one right above your vagina, gently circle it. For most it takes around 5-10 minutes to climax or orgasm. Once again you have to relax!
1 As you feel yourself coming closer to climax stop the stimulation as you have in the past, but this time squeeze your PC muscle and hold it for a few seconds. 2  Notice how this feels. 3  This is the technique you can use to prevent yourself from ejaculating and create the opportunity to have several orgasms in a row. 1 Your PC muscle and male multiple orgasms. 2  Your PC muscle is what you use to stop the flow of urine when you pee. 3  Your PC muscle is also involved in the experience of orgasm, and learning to consciously use it helps in developing multi-orgasmic capacity.
Step 2: Love Your Body. Loving your body is also very important when it comes to love making and achieving the orgasm of your dreams. If you're comfortable about how you look, it's almost as if you're getting hot and heavy for yourself. Okay, I know that sounds totally strange, but it's true. Step 3: Relax. It's time to let loose in the bedroom. When you're laying down with your honey, imagine yourself literally sinking into the bed. Relax your entire body and float on air. Taking it easy will make climax even easier.
To reach a stunning climax do not be shy to give yourself a hand. It is a fact that only 30% of women reach climax through penetration. You are not abnormal so give yourself a hand as he penetrates through. Reach down for your clitoris and service it squarely. Do not let him hurry foreplay. Guys can go from zero arousal to orgasm in five minutes. To reach a stunning climax, do not give mercy fakes. This is a term used to refer to the act of faking orgasms. If you let your partner think that he is hitting it when he is falling short, you are being unfair to yourself.
To reach a stunning climax as a woman you have to keep communicating with your lover. Tell them what you want done to you. You will have learned about yourself through masturbation. Once you figure out what gives you stunning climaxes, do not hesitate to share it out with your partner. To reach a stunning climax, do not give mercy fakes. This is a term used to refer to the act of faking orgasms. If you let your partner think that he is hitting it when he is falling short, you are being unfair to yourself.