Sensory neurons carry impulses from the sense organs to the brain and spinal cord. They are referred to as afferent neurons. The main difference is that a sensory neuron carries messages in the form of electric impulse from sense organs to brain, whereas motor neurons carries messages to effect … ive organs. 9 people found this useful. Invigilator - 007.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sensory nerves are afferent nerves, they go to the brain. This makes sense because all the information from your senses are incoming to the brain. When you touch something hot neurons fire from the fingers to the brain. Motor nerves are efferent nerves which exit the brain. When you want to move an arm, axons fire from the brain to the arm. They work together in Reflexes. You touch something the burns your finger the message is sent to the brain and the brain sends your arm a message to move away from the thing that burned your arm.
1 Motor (or efferent) neurons: send information AWAY from the central nervous system to muscles or glands. 2  Interneurons: send information between sensory neurons and motor neurons. 3  Most interneurons are located in the central nervous system. Actually, these cells have 2 axons rather than an axon and dendrite. One axon extends centrally toward the spinal cord, the other axon extends toward the skin or muscle. Multipolar neurons have many processes that extend from the cell body.
Sensory neurons do not always send their information to the brain, though they typically do in complex organisms, such as humans. In a simple organism lacking a complex central nervous system, they may simply send their information directly to a motor neuron. A sensory neuron is a nervous system cell that is involved in the transportation of sensory neural impulses from receptors or sensory organs throughout the body. These neural impulses are sent to the brain and translated into an understandable form so that the organism can react to the stimuli
Function Sensory afferent neurons convey information from tissues and organs into the central nervous system. Efferentneurons transmit signals from the central nervous system to the effector cells and are sometimes called motorneurons. Interneurons connect neurons within specific regions of the central nervous system. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Sensory neurons are nerve cells that transmit sensory information (sight, sound, feeling, etc.). They are activated by sensory input, and send projections to other elements of the nervous system, ultimately conveying sensory information to the brain or spinal cord. The somatic sensory system includes the sensations of touch, pressure, vibration, limb position, heat, cold, and pain. The cell bodies of somatic sensory afferent fibers lie in ganglia throughout the spine. These neurons are responsible for relaying information about the body to the central nervous system.
Sensory neurons are nerves that take in information from either the outside world, or from within the body itself. Sensory neurons communicate this information to the brain wh … ich then issues a response. Sensory nerves take in and communicate information about heat, cold, pressure, pain, position and more. The main difference is that a sensory neuron carries messages in the form of electric impulse from sense organs to brain, whereas motor neurons carries messages to effect … ive organs. 9 people found this useful. Invigilator - 007.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Sensory neurons are nerves that take in information from either the outside world, or from within the body itself. Sensory neurons communicate this information to the brain which then issues a response. Sensory nerves take in and communicate information about heat, cold, pressure, pain, position and more. The main difference is that a sensory neuron carries messages in the form of electric impulse from sense organs to brain, whereas motor neurons carries messages to effect … ive organs. 9 people found this useful. Invigilator - 007.