TextCenter. AdBlue is the name used internationally for an additive developed for the chemical and motoring sectors. It's an extremely high purity, 32.5% aqueous solution of urea (minimum 31.8% - maximum 33.3%) that transforms nitrogen oxides into nitrogen (N2) and water vapour (H2O) by means of chemical reduction
AdBlue is the registered trademark for AUS32, or Aqueous Urea Solution 32.5% that is used with the Selective Catalytic Reduction system (SCR) to reduce emissions of oxides of nitrogen from the exhaust of diesel vehicles. AdBlue is a 32.5% solution of high-purity urea in de-mineralized water that is clear, non-toxic and safe to handle. It is non explosive, non flammable nor harmful to the environment. AdBlue is classified under the minimum risk category of transportable fluids.
AdBlue is very easy to use and is a harmless substance. It is not a fuel, nor a fuel additive but a high purity urea solution that must be used in a dedicated tank on your vehicle, that should just be refilled as and when required. AdBlue is non-flammable and non-explosive. Air1's AdBlue brand is produced and marketed by Yara, the largest AdBlue producer in the world. Our own factories produce Yara’s AdBlue and are located in France (Le Havre), the Netherlands (Sluiskil), Germany (Brunsbuttel) and Italy (Ferrara). These plants are strategically placed to supply our markets with AdBlue.
Simply put, AdBlue is a 32.5% solution of urea in deionised water and is required by many commercial vehicles operating on Europe's roads. AdBlue is essential for the correct operation of an advanced pollution control technology installed in the exhaust system called Selective Catalytic Reduction or SCR. Unlike diesel, AdBlue is a clear, non-toxic liquid that is safe to handle and does not damage the environment. AdBlue is not a fuel or fuel additive
Diesel exhaust fluid for sale in small quantities. Diesel exhaust fluid (DEF), commonly referred to as AdBlue and standardised as ISO 22241 is an aqueous urea solution made with 32.5% high-purity urea (AUS 32) and 67.5% deionized water. DEF is stored in a tank on board the vehicle, and injected into the exhaust stream by a metering system. The injection rate depends on the specific after-treatment system, but is typically 2–6% of diesel consumption volume.
1. AdBlue® is an aqueous solution which helps to reduce the nitrous oxides in diesel vehicle exhaust by up to 90 %. Selective catalytic reduction (SCR) transforms the nitrous oxides in the exhaust gas system with the aid of AdBlue® into its environmentally-friendly components, nitrogen and water. AdBlue® is odourless and non-toxic and can in future be topped up by the driver themself – either from top-up containers or at special pumps available at an ever-increasing number of service stations.
AdBlue is a high quality urea solution that is easy to use. AdBlue is the registered trademark for AUS32, or Aqueous Urea Solution 32.5% that is used with the Selective Catalytic Reduction system (SCR) to reduce emissions of oxides of nitrogen from the exhaust of UK diesel vehicles. Average consumption of AdBlue in UK vehicles is generally 5% of diesel use, so you will need to tank much less for AdBlue then you do for diesel. You will use about 5 liters of AdBlue to every 100 liters of diesel.
AdBlue is a solution consisting of extremely high purity urea dissolved in de-ionised water. The ratio of the mix is approximately 32.5% urea and 67.5% de-ionised water. AdBlue never comes into contact with the fuel and it is a common misconception that it is a fuel additive. 
AdBlue is the German brand name for a clear, non-toxic—though slightly corrosive to some metals—aqueous urea solution used to treat exhaust on modern clean diesel engines. On average, NOx emissions are reduced on the order of approximately 80 percent. The AdBlue solution is comprised of 32.5 percent high purity urea diluted in distilled water and carried onboard the diesel vehicle in a special independent tank.