Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Baklava is a type of Greek pastry traditionally made with phyllo dough, honey, nuts, and orange essence. Many other Middle Eastern nations have pastries which are very similar, thanks to a long running tradition of sweet desserts which feature flaky, delicate pastry. To make baklava, the cook starts with phyllo dough, a type of very fine pastry dough which comes in sheets that cook into fluffy, crisp layers. Phyllo dough is notoriously difficult to handle, because it is so fine and easily dried out.
1 In Syria, baklava is prepared from phyllo dough sheets, butter, walnuts and sugar syrup. 2  It is cut into lozenge pieces. 3  Baklava from Aleppo is made with the local pistachios and “samna” from Hama. 
Chop the pistachios. While the baklava is baking, finely chop the remaining 1/4 cup of pistachios and set aside. Remove the baklava from the oven and cool. When the phyllo is evenly golden brown all over, remove the pan from the oven and set on a rack to cool. Make the syrup. While the baklava is cooling, make the syrup. Combine the sugar, water, and honey in a sauce pan and bring to a boil. 
Baklava is a Mediterranean dessert made with Phyllo dough, nuts, butter, and sugar. After baking to perfection, a sweet syrup is immediately poured over the pieces allowing the syrup to be absorbed into the layers. We use highest quality walnuts and Grade AA butter, and we make our own syrup for our Baklava. 
1 While baklava is baking, combine sugar and water in a small saucepan over medium heat and bring to a boil. 2  Stir in honey, vanilla and lemon zest, reduce heat and simmer 20 minutes. 3  Remove the baklava from the oven and immediately spoon the syrup over it. 4  Let cool completely before serving. 5  Store uncovered. 
View More. penguenstok/E+/Getty Images. Baklava is a beautiful pastry with light, flaky layers of crust and a sweet filling, drenched in a light syrup. I'm not going to get into the history of Baklava but, suffice it to say, this delicious pastry is made in every corner of every region in Greece. 
In baklava, layers of crisp phyllo dough alternate with a sugary spiced nut mixture, and the whole thing is then soaked in fragrant sweet syrup made with honey, lemon and cinnamon. It’s an exotic and decadent treat to be sure. 
The baklava is allowed to cool and then cut, often into fanciful shapes such as diamonds. A syrup is made from honey, sugar, lemon juice, and orange water, heated together on the stove until they reach a thick consistency. To make baklava, the cook starts with phyllo dough, a type of very fine pastry dough which comes in sheets that cook into fluffy, crisp layers. Phyllo dough is notoriously difficult to handle, because it is so fine and easily dried out.
Baklava is a Mediterranean dessert made with Phyllo dough, nuts, butter, and sugar. After baking to perfection, a sweet syrup is immediately poured over the pieces allowing the syrup to be absorbed into the layers. We use highest quality walnuts and Grade AA butter, and we make our own syrup for our Baklava. 
In Syria, baklava is prepared from phyllo dough sheets, butter, walnuts and sugar syrup. It is cut into lozenge pieces. In the Maghreb, mainly Libya, Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco, the pastry was brought along many others by the Ottomans, and is prepared differently depending on the regions and cities. In Turkey, baklava is traditionally made by filling between the layers of dough with pistachios, walnuts, almonds (parts of the Aegean Region) or a special preparation called kaymak (not to be confused with kaymak). In the Black Sea Region hazelnuts are commonly used as a filling for baklava.