Ionic Compounds Are Balanced. Table salt is an example of an ionic compound. Sodium and chlorine ions come together to form sodium chloride, or NaCl. The sodium atom in this compound loses an electron to become Na+, while the chlorine atom gains an electron to become Cl-. Potassium oxide, or K2O, is another example of an ionic compound. You may have noticed that unlike the sodium chloride example, which has one sodium ion for each chlorine ion, this time there are two potassium atoms for each oxygen. This is because the charges have to be balanced for the
This is an example of an ionic compound. An ionic compound is a compound held together by ionic bonds. Examples of ionic compounds include pyrite, FeS2. Remember that an ionic bond is formed through the transfer of electrons. These compounds are usually formed between metals and non-metals. 
In chemistry, an ionic compound is a chemical compound in which ions are held together in a structure by electrostatic forces termed ionic bonds. The positively charged ions are called cations and the negatively charged ions are called anions. Ionic compounds without the acidic hydrogen ion (H +), or the basic ions hydroxide (OH −) or oxide (O 2−), are also known as salts and can be formed by acid-base reactions. Ionic compounds containing hydrogen ions are classified as acids and compounds containing hydroxide or oxide ions are classified as base
Ionic compounds. Ionic bonds form when a metal reacts with a non-metal. Metals form positive ions; non-metals form negative ions. Ionic bonds are the electrostatic [electrostatic: An electrostatic force is generated by differences in electric charge (ie positive and negative) between two particles. ] forces of attraction between oppositely charged ions. Positively charged Na ions and negatively charged Cl ions. The oppositely charged ions are arranged in a regular way to form giant ionic lattices lattice: A lattice is a regular grid-like arrangement of atoms in a material. .
1 An ionic compound is a collection of an equal number of positive and negative ions arranged in a three-dimensional lattice. 2  Ionic compounds can be dissociated into their constituent ions with little effort. 3  Further they can be electrolyzed to produce elements or covalent molecules of the constituent atoms. In ionic compounds the constituent elements exist as ions. Ions are atoms or groups of atoms that carry a charge by virtue of losing or gaining one or more electrons. Ionic compounds result from the combination of a positive ion known as a cation and a negative ion called an anion.
Definition of ionic compoundAn ionic compound is composed of cations and anions joined together. Such compounds are held together by electrostatic forces, and adopt structures that maximize the attraction of oppositely charged species and minimize the repulsion between charged species with the same sign. In ionic compounds the constituent elements exist as ions. Ions are atoms or groups of atoms that carry a charge by virtue of losing or gaining one or more electrons. Ionic compounds result from the combination of a positive ion known as a cation and a negative ion called an anion.
Ionic compounds are basically defined in such a way that compounds containing two or more ions are considered alongside electrical attraction. One of the positively charged ions (called cations) and the second is a negative charge (anion). Cations are usually the metal atoms and anions are polyatomic ions or metals (ions with more than one atom).
When an ionic compound is dissolved in water the positive and negative ions are surrounded by the water molecules. The symbol aq means aqueous or surrounded by water molecules. The dissolving of sodium chloride or common table salt, chemical formula NaCl is given by the following chemical equation. 
Ionic compounds on the other had have atoms or molecules that bond to one another through their mutual attraction between positive and negative charges: Positively charged atoms or molecules are called cations and negatively charged atoms or molecules are called anions. Thus cations and anions attract one another. The ionic compounds above were made up of monatomic ions. Molecules can also be ions-polyatomic ions. Most polyatomic ions are anions with one notable exception-the ammoniun cation (NH 4 +). The composition of salts with polyatomic ions is determined by the same rule as with