Clastic sedimentary rocks are made up of pieces of other rocks. For example, sand on a beach or in a dune can get buried. Under the pressure of burial, the sand is pressed together and compacted. We will find mud, not large cobbles, in the middle of a quiet lake. The rock that can eventually form that mud is a shale. We do find gravel, pebbles, cobbles, and boulders in the middle of a mountain stream. A conglomerate can form from these materials.
Tillite is a lithified till (poorly sorted glacial debris) which may be called a matrix-supported conglomerate if there are enough granules, pebbles, cobbles, and boulders present. At least 30% of the rock should be composed of clasts larger than 2 mm in diameter in order to call that rock a true conglomerate. Conglomerate from the Ordovician near Bergen in Norway. The clasts are made of quartzite and are slightly flattened due to metamorphism. Conglomerate is composed of clasts larger than 2 mm which is the upper limit of sand grains size. Conglomerates are differentiated from sedimentary breccias which are composed of angular clasts.
Clastic rocks are composed of fragments, or clasts, of pre-existing minerals and rock. A clast is a fragment of geological detritus, chunks and smaller grains of rock broken off other rocks by physical weathering. Geologists use the term clastic with reference to sedimentary rocks as well as to particles in sediment transport whether in suspension or as bed load, and in sediment deposits. Sedimentary breccias are a type of clastic sedimentary rock which are composed of angular to subangular, randomly oriented clasts of other sedimentary rocks. They may form either. 1  in submarine debris flows, avalanches, mud flow or mass flow in an aqueous medium.
This is different from the crystallite size, which is the size of a single crystal inside the particles or grains. A single grain can be composed of several crystals. Granular material can range from very small colloidal particles, through clay, silt, sand, and gravel, to boulders. United States Standard. Size range. 
Unconsolidated sediment of this size is generally called gravel, but some sedimentologists subdivide this size fraction into pebbles, cobbles and boulders (see Table 3.1). A sedimentary rock composed of gravel would be called a conglomerate if the grains are rounded, or a breccia if the grains are angular. Chapter 3: Sedimentary Rocks 36 Figure 3-1: Variations in (A) grain size, (B) rounding and (C) sorting for particles in sedimentary rocks Medium-grained siliciclastic sediment (grain size between 0.063mm and 2mm) is called sand and the rock composed of this material would be called a sandstone.
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together.
Pebbles on a shingle beach in Somerset, England. A pebble is a clast of rock with a particle size of 2 to 64 millimetres based on the Krumbein phi scale of sedimentology. Pebbles are generally considered larger than granules (2 to 4 millimetres diameter) and smaller than cobbles (64 to 256 millimetres diameter). Pebbles come in various colors and textures, and can have streaks of quartz and different colored sedimentary rock. Pebbles are mostly smooth but, dependent on how frequently they come in contact with the sea, they can have marks of contact with other rocks or other pebbles.
The name of a sedimentary rock depends on the size (and sometimes the shape) of the rock pieces that it is made of: 1  Conglomerate is composed of rounded gravel, pebbles, cobbles, or boulders along with smaller rock pieces. We will find mud, not large cobbles, in the middle of a quiet lake. The rock that can eventually form that mud is a shale. We do find gravel, pebbles, cobbles, and boulders in the middle of a mountain stream. A conglomerate can form from these materials.
The most common clastic sedimentary rocks are breccia and conglomerate (formed from gravel), sandstone (from sand), siltstone (from silt), and shale (from clay). B. CHEMICAL SEDIMENTARY ROCKS. Chemical sedimentary rocks are crystalline, that is made of crystals interlocked with each other. Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together.
Clastic sedimentary rocks are rocks composed predominantly of broken pieces or clasts of older weathered and eroded rocks. Clastic sediments or sedimentary rocks are classified based on grain size, clast and cementing material (matrix) composition, and texture. Sedimentary breccias are a type of clastic sedimentary rock which are composed of angular to subangular, randomly oriented clasts of other sedimentary rocks. They may form either. 1  in submarine debris flows, avalanches, mud flow or mass flow in an aqueous medium.