Often confused with the left atrium, it is one of the most prominent structural features of the left atrium and plays an important role in the pumping of blood within the heart. The name auricle comes from the Latin word auricula, which means “ear” and refers to the floppy dog-ear shape of the auricle.... The left auricle, also known as the left atrial appendage (LAA), is a flap of heart wall on the anterior surface of the left atrium of
A planarian is one of many flatworms of the Turbellaria class. It is also the common name for a member of the genus Planaria within the family Planariidae. Sometimes it also refers to the genus Dugesia. Planaria are common to many parts of the world, living in both saltwater and freshwater ponds and rivers. 
Answers. Best Answer: If you are talking about the ear, the auricle collects and directs sound waves to the auditory canal. In the human heart the right and left atria are also called auricles (older terms). The right one receives blood from the body and pumps it to the right ventricle from which it is pumped through the lungs. 
Only mammals have the outside ear parts called auricles. The ears of different mammals work basically the same way that human ears do. However, many mammals can move their auricles to pick up sound coming from any direction. auricle: bats ear. The huge auricles (outside ear parts) of a bat help it to tell from which direction a sound is coming. Dr. Merlin D. TuttleConservation International/Photo Researchers. The huge auricles (outside ear parts) of a bat help it to tell from which direction a sound is coming. ear: Ears of Other Animals (Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)). Related Articles: Ears are much more important to mammals than to other groups of animals
In the context of human anatomy, the auricle can refer to either one of two distinct body parts: the outer ear or an internal “pouch” or protective layer in the heart. In regards the heart, the auricle is a part of the atrium, specifically the small, cone-shaped muscular pouch that projects from it. In the heart, the auricle is a small, cone-shaped pouch that projects from the atrium, one of the upper chambers. The visible part of a person's ear is called the auricle, also known as the pinna. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow
The auricle is also known as the pinna, and it is most commonly referred to as the ear. It is the most obviously visible part of the auditory system. An auricle consists of skin over contoured cartilage, and it is held in place by muscles and ligaments. Auricles are located on both sides of the head, near the temple and where the jaw meets the skull. Each ear is subdivided into the several regions. These include the lobule, the concha, the scafoid fossa, and other parts. The ear is the first part of the body to come in contact with auditory stimuli.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Auricles are the two upper chambers of the heart divided into right auricle and left auricle.Right auricle always contains deoxygenetated blood (blood mixed with carbon dioxide) and left one has the oxygenetated blood. The two types of the blood do not get mixed up as the two auricles are separated from one another by an interauricular septum.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. In the context of human anatomy, the auricle can refer to either one of two distinct body parts: the outer ear or an internal “pouch” or protective layer in the heart. These parts aren’t related except for their shared name. In regards the heart, the auricle is a part of the atrium, specifically the small, cone-shaped muscular pouch that projects from it. In the heart, the auricle is a small, cone-shaped pouch that projects from the atrium, one of the upper chambers. The visible part of a person's ear is called the auricle, also known as the pinna. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow