Spores are not like seeds. They lack a seed c … oat, endosperm and preformed embryonic parts. In addition spores give rise to the gametophyte generation and seeds give rise to the sporophyte generation. Ferns and mosses do both reproduce by using spores BUT mosses have a reduced almost parasitic sporophyte generation which produces the spores. 
The gametophyte is haploid and produces haploid gametes by mitosis. The sporophyte of mosses consists of a seta and capsule whilst that of the ferns is more dominant and consists of fronds. They produce haploid spores by meiosis. Update: sorry my question is unclear which generation produces spores and which produces gametes in MOSS and which generation produces spores and which produces gametes in FERNS.
In addition spores give rise to the gametophyte generation and seeds give rise to the sporophyte generation. Ferns and mosses do both reproduce by using spores BUT mosses have a reduced almost parasitic sporophyte generation which produces the spores. The mycelium of hyphae (of mould fungi) grow spore cases which contain spores. When spores are released and land on food/material, it grows into a new mycelium.
Answers. Best Answer: Yes you were right. The sporophyte generation (diploid) produces the spores whilst the gametophyte (haploid) generation produces tha gametes. This applies for both ferns and mosses. If you ever get mixed up about which generation produces which, just look at the names of the generations. Update: sorry my question is unclear which generation produces spores and which produces gametes in MOSS and which generation produces spores and which produces gametes in FERNS.
Sexual Reproduction. At regular intervals depending on species and weather condition, mosses produce small sexual structures known as archegonium (female structure that produces egg cells), or antheridium (male structure that produces sperm cells). These can occur on different parts of the same plant but more often on different plants. In many moss plants a microscope is needed to see the antheridia or archegonia. When the antheridia are ripe the antherozoids are released, these antherozoids or sperm cells then swim by means of two threadlike tails and are attracted chemically to the archegonium, where fertilisation occurs to form a zygote.
In mosses, liverworts and hornworts, an unbranched sporophyte produces a single sporangium, which may be quite complex morphologically. Most non-vascular plants, as well as many lycophytes and most ferns, are homosporous (only one kind of spore is produced). A sporangium (pl., sporangia) (modern Latin, from Greek σπόρος (sporos) ‘spore’ + αγγείον (angeion) ‘vessel’) is an enclosure in which spores are formed.
The moss life-cycle starts with a haploid spore that germinates to produce a protonema (pl. protonemata), which is either a mass of thread-like filaments or thalloid (flat and thallus-like). Botanically, mosses are non-vascular plants in the land plant division Bryophyta. They are small (a few centimeters tall) herbaceous (non-woody) plants that absorb water and nutrients mainly through their leaves and harvest carbon dioxide and sunlight to create food by photosynthesis.
All plants, fungi, and many other lineages form sporangia at some point in their life cycle. Sporangia can produce spores by mitosis, but in nearly all land plants and many fungi, sporangia are the site of meiosis and produce genetically distinct haploid spores. A sporangium (pl., sporangia) (modern Latin, from Greek σπόρος (sporos) ‘spore’ + αγγείον (angeion) ‘vessel’) is an enclosure in which spores are formed.
All plants undergo a life cycle that takes them through both haploid and diploid generations. The multicellular diploid plant structure is called the sporophyte, which produces spores through meiotic (asexual) division. The fluctuation between these diploid and haploid stages that occurs in plants is called the alternation of generations. The way in which the alternation of generations occurs in plants depends on the type of plant.
The gametophyte comprises the main plant (the green moss or liverwort), while the diploid sporophyte is much smaller and is attached to the gametophyte. The haploid stage, in which a multicellular haploid gametophyte develops from a spore and produces haploid gametes, is the dominant stage in the bryophyte life cycle. The mature gametophyte produces both male and female gametes, which join to form a diploid zygote. The fluctuation between these diploid and haploid stages that occurs in plants is called the alternation of generations. The way in which the alternation of generations occurs in plants depends on the type of plant.