Blood Vessels: Arteries: These are large blood vessels that take oxygenated blood away from the heart to be distributed throughout the body. The aorta is the body's largest artery. Veins: These blood vessels take deoxygenated blood from around the body back to the heart and lungs to be oxygenated. Capillaries: These tiny blood vessels are where the exchange of oxygen and nutrients take place. The nutrients and oxygen are exchanged for wastes that are taken from the cells
An artery usually carries pure, filtered and clean blood away from the heart, to all the parts of the body with an exception of the pulmonary artery and the umbilical cord. As the arteries move away from the heart, they divide into smaller vessels. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).
The cardiovascular, or circulatory, system in humans is composed of the heart and the blood. vessels--arteries, veins, and capillaries. Its purpose is to provide nutrients and oxygen to the tissues and to remove wastes from them. Bright red, oxygen-rich blood from the pulmonary circulation flows from the left atrium into the left ventricle. With each beat of the heart, blood is forced through the large artery of the heart, called the aorta, and throughout the body by a network of arteries.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).
The exception is the pulmonary artery, which carries oxygen-poor blood from the right ventricle to the lungs. Arterioles are smaller … arteries that carry oxygen-rich blood. Arteries in the arterial blood system carry oxygenated blood. Veins in the venous blood system carry de-oxygenated blood. Both types of blood vessels operate simultaneously, continually keeping cells and tissues infused with O2 and removing CO2.
Arterial Circulation. Arterial circulation is the part of your circulatory system that involves arteries, like the aorta and pulmonary arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from your heart. (The exception is the coronary arteries, which supply your heart muscle with oxygen-rich blood.). 
This is often a trick question, because a vein can carry oxygenated blood, and an artery can carry de-oxygenated blood in specific situations. **In general**, veins carry de-oxygenated blood towards the heart, and arteries carry blood rich in oxygen away from the heart. The pulmonary vein also carries oxygenated blood (from the lung back to the heart). The difference between an artery and a vein is that arteries carry blood away from the hear and veins carry blood to the heart. blankstar · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 0. Comment. Add a comment.
Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).
Best Answer: Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins carry blood back to the heart. Blood leaving the heart and travelling to the body (with the exception of the lungs) does so through the largest artery, the aorta, before branching off into smaller arteries. This blood has been oxygenated.