Further reading [edit]. 1  DeBernardi, Jean. 2  Greenlee, David. 3  Moreau, A Scott. 4  Poythress, Vern S.  Territorial Spirits: Some Biblical Perspectives , Urban Mission, 13 (1995), p 37-49. 5  Stevens, David E. Daniel 10 and the notion of territorial spirits Bibliotheca Sacra, 157 (2000) p 410-431. This belief has been popularized by the novel, This Present Darkness by Frank Peretti, as well as by the ministry of Peter Wagner. The existence of territorial spirits is viewed as significant in spiritual warfare within these Christian groups.
Encountering Territorial Spirits-part 2. This article continues a discussion of the fact that Scripture makes clear that believers can obey the Great Commission to evangelize the world by taking the Bible as their sole and sufficient guide for faith and practice. A part of the doctrine of territorial spirits is the practice of spiritual mapping.. Otis declares himself to be the father of the term. [33] Caballeros explains, Spiritual mapping plays the same important role that intelligence and espionage play during war. It reveals the conditions behind enemy lines.
158 # 27 Setting Your Church Free www.healingofthespirit.org Healing from Territorial Spirits This chapter will address (1) setting your church free, (2) setting your neighborhood or city free, and (3) transformation revival that can take place after churches and towns are set free. Evangelism roadblocks. 167 # 27 Setting Your Church Free www.healingofthespirit.org process of removal must begin with personal confession and repentance and should precede the “Spiritual mapping” effort mentioned above. 1. Personal Repentance: Evil spirits seek to control a personality or character.
Territorial spirits, whereas not being a Scriptural term, may very well be appropriate as exampled by the aforementioned passages. Such a term is really not that important, though. [S]ome Christians accept the notion of 'territorial spirits' as readily as pagans, the only difference being that they believe that such 'spirits' should be confronted through authoritative prayer and commands issued 'in the Spirit'. - Source: Territorial Spirits, by Charles Hoole, Evangelicals Now, Mar
And this is the judgement, that light has come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.”. Abstract: A key concept in the Transformations Movement is the identification and binding of territorial spirits. This practice fails thorough biblical scrutiny. In this article we shall looking at the modern teaching concerning what is called “territorial spirits”. According to this teaching there are specific, evil spirits that rule over a community, village, town, city or country; that is, they rule over a geographical area, and so are
Territorial Spirits. The belief in 'territorial spirits' is a pagan concept that holds certain demonic spirits rule over specific geographic areas. [S]ome Christians accept the notion of 'territorial spirits' as readily as pagans, the only difference being that they believe that such 'spirits' should be confronted through authoritative prayer and commands issued 'in the Spirit'. - Source: Territorial Spirits, by Charles Hoole, Evangelicals Now, Mar
Articles. Daniel 10 and the Notion of Territorial Spirits (Contra) by David E. Stevens, Senior Pastor, Central Bible Church, Portland, Oregon. 
Territorial spirits, whereas not being a Scriptural term, may very well be appropriate as exampled by the aforementioned passages. Such a term is really not that important, though.S]ome Christians accept the notion of 'territorial spirits' as readily as pagans, the only difference being that they believe that such 'spirits' should be confronted through authoritative prayer and commands issued 'in the Spirit'.
There are those who are cautious about binding territorial spirits but who hold out that sometimes conditions are right and then those in authority can exercise authority over territorial spirits. They state (I believe wrongly) that under certain conditions the Body of Christ is given authority over territorial spirits. 