From Conservapedia. A cuttlefish. The cuttlefish is a marine animal that has eight arms, two tentacles, and a soft body. It is a cephalopod: a fast-swimming, intelligent mollusk that can change its skin color and release ink into the water to confuse predators. 
Sepia cuttlefish. There are more than 100 species of sepia cuttlefish, a greater number of species than in any other cephalopod genus. Like all cuttlefish they contain cuttlebones, which are not bones but lightweight structures that help regulate buoyancy.
Cuttlefish. The Cuttlefish is one of the most intelligent invertebrates in the world and contrary to what the name suggests the Cuttlefish is actually a mollusk and is part of the same family as squids and octopus’s. 
Toxicity: Cuttlefish have beaks that can inject a venom that has a speedy reaction, this venom does not work on humans and is very helpful when dealing with predators because it attacks the nervous system. 
cuttlefish. a member of the Cephalopoda family of molluscs with a bony structure (gladius) internally. This boatlike structure is a common finding at the sea's edge and is much used as a dietary supplement and plaything for caged birds. cuttlefish. Homeopathy. A homeopathic remedy formulated from the cuttlefish, a soft mollusk native to the Mediterranean Sea; it is used primarily for female disorders, such as premenstrual syndrome, physical and emotional changes during pregnancy, prolapsed uterus and pain with sexual intercourse.
cut·tle·fish. n. pl. cuttlefish or cut·tle·fish·es. Any of various marine cephalopod mollusks of the family Sepiidae, having eight arms and two long tentacles, a calcareous internal shell, and a broad body. cuttlefish. n, pl-fish or-fishes. 1. (Animals) any cephalopod mollusc of the genus Sepia and related genera, which occur near the bottom of inshore waters and have a broad flattened body: order Decapoda (decapods).
cuttle. n. 1. (Animals) short for cuttlefish, cuttlebone. 2. (Animals) little cuttle a small cuttlefish, Sepiola atlantica, often found on beaches. [Old English cudele; related to Old High German kiot bag, Norwegian dialect kaule cuttle, Old English codd bag]. 
Definition of CUTTLEFISH. : any of various marine cephalopod mollusks (order Sepioidea, especially genus Sepia) having eight short arms and two usually longer tentacles and differing from the related squid in having a calcified internal shell. See cuttlefish defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 