Unlike those charities that have not or cannot register for GST/HST, registered charities that are registered for GST/HST can claim ITCs to recover the GST/HST paid or owing on purchases to provide taxable goods and services. ITCs can be claimed when charities file a return, or they may hold the credit over.
Charities can claim a rebate to recover 100% of the goods and services tax/harmonized sales tax (GST/HST) that they paid to their suppliers on goods and services they exported outside Canada and for which they cannot claim input tax credits (ITCs).
Many of the GST/HST rules that apply to charities do not apply to non-profit organizations. If your organization is not a charity (that is, a registered charity or registered Canadian amateur athletic association for income tax purposes) then you may be a non-profit organization for GST/HST purposes.
RC4081 GST/HST Information for Non-Profit Organizations. You can view this publication in: HTML rc4081-e.html (179 KB). PDF rc4081-13e.pdf (271 KB).
Your organization does not have to be registered for GST in order to claim rebates. However, if you are not registered, you can only claim rebates semi-annually or annually.
If your charity is not registered for GST/HST, you can file a PSB rebate application for the first six months of your fiscal year and another PSB rebate application for the last six months of your fiscal year.
A charity for GST/HST purposes includes most registered charities for income tax purposes, but does not include a registered charity that is a school authority, a public college, a university, a hospital authority, or a local authority determined to be a municipality.
Many charities are not required to register for HST purposes. A charity that is not registered does not charge tax on its supplies of goods and services. However, some supplies of goods and services made by a charity may be taxable, in which case the charity may be
This means that, if it is registered for GST, the registered charity, gift deductible entity or government school does not pay GST on the payment it receives for its non-commercial sales, and it can claim GST credits for the GST included in the price of purchases it uses to make these sales.