Sake-Rice vinegar. Sherry or Bourbon-Orange or pineapple juices, peach syrup, or non-alcoholic vanilla extract. Substitute equal amount of liquid 1 to 2 teaspoons vanilla extract. Southern Comfort-Peach flavored nectar combined with a small amount of cider vinegar.
1 Red Wine – Sweet or dry non-alcoholic wine with a tablespoon of vinegar added to cut the sweetness, grape juice, cranberry juice, grape jelly, tomato juice, beef broth, liquid drained from vegetables, or water. 2  Use equal amounts of liquid as called for in the recipe.
Coffee Liqueur-To replace 2 tablespoons of liqueur, use 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of chocolate extract mixed with 1 teaspoon of instant coffee, which has been mixed in 2 tablespoons of water. Can also substitute expresso, non-alcoholic coffee extract or coffee syrup. Cognac-Juice from peaches, apricots, or pears.
You can try alcoholic substitutes, like dry red or white wine instead of sherry. Other such substitutes include port wine, Marsala wine, or Madeira. You may use any of these wines instead of sherry. If you need a cup of sherry for preparing a recipe, replace it with an equal amount of any of these wines.
Substitute-General Apple cider; non-alcoholic vanilla extract; coffee; or coffee syrup. Substitute-Measured 2 tablespoons sherry, substitute the following: 1 to 2 teaspoons vanilla extract or 2 tablespoons orange or pineapple juice.
For sherry... Lets see: General Apple cider; non-alcoholic vanilla extract; coffee; or coffee syrup. Measured • 2 tablespoons sherry, substitute the following: 1 to 2 teaspoons vanilla extract or 2 tablespoons orange or pineapple juice.
Coffee Liqueur-To replace 2 tablespoons of liqueur, use 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of chocolate extract mixed with 1 teaspoon of instant coffee, which has been mixed in 2 tablespoons of water. Can also substitute expresso, non-alcoholic coffee extract, or coffee syrup.
Sherry wine substitutes can be non-alcoholic or alcoholic, but make sure that the one you choose helps you to retain the original taste of the dish. Cooking sherry can be replaced with sherry wine.