Chance is popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity jumped from the 1960s up to the 1990s; before that, it was of irregular use only. At the modest peak of its usage in 1996, 0.112% of baby boys were given the name Chance. Its ranking then was #154. The baby name has since experienced a fall in popularity. English origin: It is from the elements 'chance' ; 'cadere' meaning to fall. The first name was originally derived from Chauncey, but it is now often taken to derive from the common English word, which is itself of the Latin 'cadere'.
Meaning of Chance. English name. In English, the name Chance means-keeper of the records. Other origins for the name Chance include-English, French.The name Chance is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-keeper of the records. Origin-England.
English Meaning: The name Chance is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Chance is: Good luck; good fortune; chancellor. American Meaning: The name Chance is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chance is: Good luck; good fortune; chancellor. French Meaning: The name Chance is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Chance is: Fortune; a gamble.
Originally a diminutive of CHAUNCEY. It is now usually given in reference to the English word chance meaning luck, fortune (ultimately derived from Latin cadens falling). 
Like Maverick, Chance is a lone gunman, following the wind and seeking adventure on his own terms. Unlike Maverick, Chance also has a softer side, a reflection of prep-school names like Chauncey and Trey. That unlikely combination is a winner, making Chance the top meaning name for boys. From The Baby Name Wizard by Laura Wattenberg.
[ 1 syll. (c)han-ce, ch-a- nce ] The baby boy name Chance is also used as a girl name, but it is much more common for boys. Its pronunciation is CH-ahNS- †. Chance is used chiefly in the English language, and its origin is English and Old French. English origin: It is from the elements 'chance' ; 'cadere' meaning to fall. The first name was originally derived from Chauncey, but it is now often taken to derive from the common English word, which is itself of the Latin 'cadere'.
Chance /chan-ce/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced chans. It is of Middle English origin, and the meaning of Chance is good fortune. Chance is a somewhat popular first name for males (#842 out of 1220, Top 69%) and an even more popular last name for all people (#2441 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Chance for boys. Chance was first listed in 1970-1979 and reached its highest position of #154 in the U.S. in the year 1996, and is at #248 currently
Chance is a masculine given name and a surname. The given name is of Middle English origin, meaning good fortune. There are several variants. The surname is Old French origin from cheance, also Middle English chea(u)nce (meaning fortune, luck, accident). The oldest public record of the surname dates to 1310 in Essex. People with the name Chance include: 
Chance is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Chance. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 248 in baby name popularity for boys with 1501 occurrences. It ranked 4258 in popular baby names for girls with 34 occurrences. 