1 Two-toed and three-toed sloths were formerly placed in the same family but the two genera have profound behavioral and anatomical differences and are believed to come from two different fossil lineages. 2  They are now placed in separate families. 3  2-toed is larger, faster, and nocturnal. 1 Long limbs — forelegs only slightly longer than hind legs (3-toed sloth's forelegs are 35% longer than hind legs). 2  Two-toed sloths have hands with two functioning fingers with sharp claws 76 - 102 mm (3 - 4 inches). 3  Three-toed sloths have three fingers on their hands. 4  Three claws on hind limbs.
The two-toed sloth is slightly bigger than the three-toed sloth, though they share many of the same features. They are about the size of a medium-sized dog at around 23 to 27 inches (58 to 68 cm) and 17.5 to 18.75 pounds (about 8 kilograms). 
1 Besides the fact that one has two toes on its forelimbs and the other three, they have different numbers of vertebrae (three-toed ones have nine; two-toed ones have six or seven). 2  Also, Three-toed sloths have a small tail and its forelegs are substantially longer than the rear ones. Difference Between Two and Three Toed Sloths: 1 
Unlike the two-toed sloth, three-toed sloths are agile swimmers. They are still slow in trees. The offspring cling to their mother's bellies for around nine months. They cannot walk on all four limbs, so they must use their front arms and claws to drag themselves across the rainforest floor. Relation to the two-toed sloth [edit]. Although similar to the somewhat larger and generally faster-moving two-toed sloths, the two genera are placed in different families.
Most sloths that you would see currently are from the family of the two-toed and there is not much information on the three-toed family of sloths. No one truly knows how they evolved to have three-toes or if sloths began with three and adapted through time to have only two. The sloths that have two-toes also have only two fingers and are faster and larger than those in the three-toe family. Hundreds of years ago, it is believed that there were three-toed sloths that grew to the size of elephants.
There are two different types of sloths, two-toed and three-toed, and six species: 1  Pygmy three-toed sloth (Bradypus pygmaeus). 2  Maned sloth (Bradypus torquatus). 3  Pale-throated sloth (Bradypus tridactylus). 4  Brown-throated sloth (Bradypus variegatus). 5  Linnaeus’s two-toed sloth (Choloepus didactylus). 
The ai, aï or-three toed, sloth has a, tail and three claws on all the. Feet the muzzle of the former is, longer the front more, elevated and the ears more apparent than those of the. Latter their hair is also very. different The fore legs are much longer than the hind, and the claws are long. --- The two-toed sloth has a round head, short projecting nose, ears like the human, lying flat on the head, two long claws on the fore feet, and three on the hind.
The ai, aï or-three toed, sloth has a, tail and three claws on all the. Feet the muzzle of the former is, longer the front more, elevated and the ears more apparent than those of the. Latter their hair is also very. Different the [ structure ] 151 and situation of some parts of their viscera are likewise. different The fore legs are much longer than the hind, and the claws are long. --- The two-toed sloth has a round head, short projecting nose, ears like the human, lying flat on the head, two long claws on the fore feet, and three on the hind.
The three-toed sloths are tree-living mammals from South and Central America. They are the only members of the genus Bradypus and the family Bradypodidae. The four living species of three-toed sloths are the brown-throated sloth, the maned sloth, the pale-throated sloth, and the pygmy three-toed sloth. Relation to the two-toed sloth [edit]. Although similar to the somewhat larger and generally faster-moving two-toed sloths, the two genera are placed in different families.