Millboard decking is hand-made in the United Kingdom &amp styled from real oak timbers, creating an incredible realistic look that captures the natural beauty of wood. &nbsp No Algae. Because Millboard decks contain no timber, there are no sugars to host mould or algae! Millboard is perfect for pools, beaches or wet areas where regular timber (or composites which typically contain timber or flour) will rot & decay over time.
THE DECKING THAT FINALLY TICKS ALL THE BOXES!! Millboard’s composite decking is a new generation of innovative anti-slip and maintenance-free external flooring. It looks as beautiful and warm as natural timber, but with no wood content – so will stand the test of time. 
Because Millboard composite decking contains no timber fibres, there are no sugars to host mould or algae! Millboard deck is perfect for pools, beaches or wet areas where regular timber (or composites which typically contain timber or flour) will rot & decay over time. The Millboard decking is brilliant. In our other home we had wood plastic composite decking and it scratched up and looked terrible. This however is right around our pool and we have no issues. Heaps of friends ask about it.
Urbanline Millboard Decking is an innovative and revolutionary composite decking solution that looks so convincing, you’ll struggle to believe that it’s not real wood – until you enjoy years of virtually maintenance free use. 1 Millboard requires no oiling, painting or coating over the life of the product – just keep it clean. 2  Achieve a perfect finish with invisible face fix. 3  Formulated with a mixture of virgin and recycled highdensity polyethylene, which promotes longevity. 4  Non-porous finish allows no opportunity for moisture ingress.
Millboard decking retains an exceptionally stable surface with a stunning appearance throughout its long lifetime. It’s all – new composite decking offering you unique features of non-maintenance, fire retardant, anti – algae that are made using recycled natural products. Millboard decking boards are produced from prime oak samples. manufactured from polyurethane with up to 50% recycled filler the boards are moulded from multiple masters, rather than extruded, and then hand coloured to perfectly reproduce the detail of natural wood with minimal repetition.
Virtually Maintenance-Free. Millboard decking contains no timber, nor any plastic! It's totally non-porous-meaning it doesn't absorb moisture, doesn't shrink or expand like traditional decking or composites, &amp is highly stain resistant, spills won't penetrate the surface! The Millboard decking is brilliant. In our other home we had wood plastic composite decking and it scratched up and looked terrible. This however is right around our pool and we have no issues. Heaps of friends ask about it.
Millboard decking is virtually maintenance free and is the world's finest 100% wood-free composite decking. The Millboard decking is brilliant. In our other home we had wood plastic composite decking and it scratched up and looked terrible. This however is right around our pool and we have no issues. Heaps of friends ask about it.
Millboard composite decking has been moulded from hand selected prime oak samples, replicating the beautiful qualities of the originals. Only Millboard decking is hand crafted this way. The textured, resilient top surface of the finished Millboard is made from Lastane providing a virtually maintenance-free algae-repellent surface, which greatly enhanced slip resistance in wet conditions. 
Millboard decking contains no timber, or plastic! It's totally non-porous-meaning it doesn't absorb moisture, doesn't shrink or expand like traditional decking or composites, &amp is highly stain resistant, spills won't penetrate the surface! &nbsp No Algae. Because Millboard decks contain no timber, there are no sugars to host mould or algae! Millboard is perfect for pools, beaches or wet areas where regular timber (or composites which typically contain timber or flour) will rot & decay over time.
Not a single tree is chopped down to produce Millboard. Millboard decking is designed &amp hand crafted in the U.K. from a low energy classed process, as such Millboard is the sustainable choice in exterior decking. &nbsp No Algae. Because Millboard decks contain no timber, there are no sugars to host mould or algae! Millboard is perfect for pools, beaches or wet areas where regular timber (or composites which typically contain timber or flour) will rot & decay over time.