Prodiamine 65 WDG is a pre-emergent herbicide used to control a wide variety of broadleaf and grassy weeds. Not only is it extremely broad-spectrum, it is also one of the most cost effective pre-emergent herbicides on the market. 
Preemergent herbicides prevent the germination of seeds by inhibiting a key enzyme. In some areas of the world, they are used to prevent crabgrass from appearing in lawns. Preemergent herbicides are applied to lawns in the spring and fall to prevent the germination of weed seeds. 
Pro-mate 0-0-7 0.22% Barricade (Prodiamine) Granular Fertilizer - 50 Lbs is 0.22% barricade pre-emergent herbicide for prevention weed combo professinal turf grass fertilizer. Get Discount with Pallet Order. 
Prodiamine 65 WDG is a pre-emergent crabgrass control solution that contains 65% prodiamine active ingredient. Prodiamine is a generic form of Barricade. Prodiamine is just as effective on controling crabgrass and far less expensive. Prodiamine is an effective pre-emergent herbicide for pre-emergent crabgrass and broadleaf weed control. Prodiamine can be applied in the spring and fall for year-long crabgrass control. Prodiamine 65 also helps control bluegrass, spurge, witchgrass and others.
They are both contain the same percentage of active ingredient Prodiamine, treat the same pests and applied in the same way. Resolute 65 WG is made by Syngenta (name brand) and Prodiamine 65 WDG is made by Quail-Pro (generic brand) . WG and WDG both stand for Wettable Dispersable Granule, water-dispersible granules must be mixed with water to be applied. Once in water, the granules break apart into fine particles similar to wettable powders. A The first thing you need to know when using an herbicide such as Prodiamine 65 WDG is that the exact amount of water you dilute it with is not important. It is only important to make sure you are using the correct amount of product per 1,000 sq ft of lawn.
We are assuming you are compaing the two generic forms of the herbicide Barricade, Prodiamine 65 WDG and Resolute 65 WG. The only difference between Prodiamine 65 WG and the Resolute 65 WG is that they are made by 2 different manufacturers. A The first thing you need to know when using an herbicide such as Prodiamine 65 WDG is that the exact amount of water you dilute it with is not important. It is only important to make sure you are using the correct amount of product per 1,000 sq ft of lawn.
Home » Active Ingredients » Prodiamine. Prodiamine is the active ingredient found in the popular herbicide Barricade and other lawn and garden products. It is labeled as a pre-emergent herbicide for the control of broadleaf weed and a number of undesirable grasses including spurge, bluegrass and witchgrass. Prodiamine can be harmful if inhaled or absorbed through the skin. Always follow product labels and wear appropriate clothing when applying this prodiamine products. Prodiamine 65 WDG (Generic Barricade) - 5 lb.
Prodiamine 65 WDG is a pre-emergent crabgrass control solution that contains 65% prodiamine active ingredient. Prodiamine is a generic form of Barricade. Prodiamine is just as effective on controling crabgrass and far less expensive. Prodiamine is an effective pre-emergent herbicide for pre-emergent crabgrass and broadleaf weed control. Prodiamine can be applied in the spring and fall for year-long crabgrass control
MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET. Quali-Pro ® Prodiamine 65 WDG Page 2 of 5 8-24-09 • Do not induce vomiting unless told to do so by a poison control center or doctor. Have the product container or label with you when calling a poison control center or doctor or going for treatment. MATERIAL SAFETY DATA SHEET Quali-Pro ® Prodiamine 65 WDG Page 3 of 5 8-24-09 PRODUCT. FOR COMMERCIAL APPLICATIONS AND/OR ON-FARM APPLICATIONS CONSULT THE PRODUCT LABEL. INGESTION PROTECTION: Prevent eating, drinking, tobacco usage and cosmetic application in areas where there is a potential for exposure to the material.
It is important to make the distinction that pre-emergent herbicides, like prodiamine, do not destroy weeds entirely but rather prevent growth. That is why you must apply pre-emergent herbicides annually to retain desired results. Prodiamine inihibits plant cell growth so that weeds are unable to grow. Prodiamine can be harmful if inhaled or absorbed through the skin. Always follow product labels and wear appropriate clothing when applying this prodiamine products. Prodiamine 65 WDG (Generic Barricade) - 5 lb.