Each kind of sedimentary rock turns into a different kind of metamorphic rock-limestone turns into travertine or marble, and shale turns into slate, and sandstone turns into quartzite. Even though slate is a metamorphic rock, it still looks a lot like a sedimentary rock-it is still in thin layers. A raw (uncut) diamond. When sedimentary rocks like limestone or shale were under water, sometimes the weight of the water pressed them so hard that they actually changed the way their molecules locked together and became a different kind of rock. Metamorphosis means changes form, and that's why we call these metamorphic rocks.
1 During metamorphism platy minerals grow in the direction of least stress producing foliation. 2  Rocks with only one, non-platy, mineral produce nonfoliated rocks such as quartzite or marble. 3  Two types of metamorphism: contact and regional. Geology 200. Geology for Environmental Scientists. Major Concepts. 1  Metamorphic rocks can be formed from any rock type: igneous, sedimentary, or existing metamorphic rocks. 2  Involves recrystallization in the solid state, often with little change in overall chemical composition. 3  Driving forces are changes in temperature, pressure, and pore fluids
Marble is a metamorphic rock that forms when limestone is subjected to the heat and pressure of metamorphism. 
Marble is another example of a metamorphic rock. It is formed from limestone. Metamorphic rocks sometimes contain fossils if they were formed from a sedimentary rock, but the fossils are usually squashed out of shape. Metamorphic rocks can be formed from any other type of rock-sedimentary or igneous. Remember these two examples of common metamorhpic rocks and where they come from: slate is formed from shale. marble is formed from limestone. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3. 5  4. 6  5
Metamorphic rocks started out as some other type of rock, but have been substantially changed from their original igneous, sedimentary, or earlier metamorphic form. Metamorphic rocks form when rocks are subjected to high heat, high pressure, hot, mineral-rich fluids or, more commonly, some combination of these factors. 
Summary. 1  Any type of rock—igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic—can become a metamorphic rock. 2  Heat and pressure form metamorphic rocks. 3  Magma can cause existing rocks to change into metamorphic rocks. 4  Metamrophic rocks can be classified by their texture: foliated, nonfoliated. Heat and/or pressure then change the rock into a metamorphic rock. The change can be physical, chemical, or both. Think of the inside of the Earth is like an oven. The Earth bakes the rocks and chemically changes the minerals inside them.
Metamorphic Rocks. Any rock (igneous, sedimentary, or metamorphic) can become a metamorphic rock. If rocks are buried deep in the Earth at high temperatures and pressures, they form new minerals and textures all without melting. If melting occurs, magma is formed, starting the rock cycle all over again. 
The presence of some specific minerals in a metamorphic rock can indicate the degree of heat and pressure it sustained. Metamorphic rocks are sedimentary or igneous rocks that have been modified or changed in form, that is, the size, shape and arrangement of the minerals in rocks, by heat or pressure. As they are derived from previously existing igneous, sedimentary or even metamorphic rock, their appearance varies from one to the other
Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. The original rock (protolith) is subjected to heat (temperatures greater than 150 to 200 °C) and pressure (1500 bars), causing profound physical and/or chemical change. The protolith may be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock.