The Nazi women who were every bit as evil as the men: From the mother who shot Jewish children in cold blood to the nurses who gave lethal injections in death camps. 1  Chilling new book has unearthered thousands of complicit German women. 2  At least half a million witnessed and contributed to Hitler's terror. The few women ever called to account were notorious concentration camp guards — the likes of Irma Grese and Ilse Koch — whose evil was so extreme they could be explained away as freaks and beasts, not really ‘women’ at all. Ultra-macho Nazi Germany was a man’s world.
The Germans and War. One issue that emerged during World War II was whether the German nation and people were inherently warlike. There were even discussion of turning Germany into a pastoral nation so the country could never again start another war. Many questions about the Germans and World War II are difficult to answer. One is not. The best proof of this is Adolf Hitler himself--perhaps the most astute German politican of the 20th century. Hitler knew that the German people were afraid of another War. Thus he never advocated war. He advocated steps that meant war like lebensraum in the East, but he never came out and advocated war. The massive NAZI rearmament program was presented as necessary to prevent war
A lot of movies have themes of events that have happened during the time of Adolf Hitler. These depicted on war, cruelty and the cry for liberation. Before we answer, why Hitler is so evil, let us get to know the man and his roots before he became the toughest leader of all times. 
Sales of Hitler's political autobiography Mein Kampf, sometimes referred to as the bible of the Nazi Party, made him a millionaire. From 1933 to 1945, free copies were given to every newlywed German couple. After World War II, the publication of Mein Kampf in Germany became illegal. Denazification. After the war, the Allies occupied Germany, outlawed the Nazi Party and worked to purge its influence from every aspect of German life. The party’s swastika flag quickly became a symbol of evil in modern postwar culture.
The only tie between WW I Japan and the atrocious behavior of WW II is that Hirohito was getting some of his rather warped military training during that period, so that he bought in to the horrors of Manchuria, China, and WW II. Japan wasn't particularly evil in WWI. She wanted to be accepted as a great power and so, as in the Russo-Japanese war, treated European prisoners well. As to WWII, Japan didn't care about being accepted as they didn't want anybody else in power around in Asia to do any accepting.
However, with the cover of World War II, the Nazis created an elaborate and intensive system to work Jews as slaves and kill them. Hitler is considered one of the most evil people in history because of the Holocaust. During the beginning of World War II, the German war machine seemed unstoppable. Adolf Hitler was the leader of Nazi Germany from 1933 until his suicide in 1945. Hitler was responsible for starting World War II and for killing more than 11 million people during the Holocaust. Dates: April 20, 1889 -- April 30, 1945. Also Known As: Fuehrer führer of The Third. reich
He saw the Jews not so much as a religious group, but as a nation within a nation, and as a political movement. The notion of Jews being a nation was bandied about in the second half of the nineteenth century as well. There seemed to be a consensus that the Jews were incompatible with purist German Nationalism. Another reason the Nazis were so attractive to the German people was the extreme economic hardships after WWI. The hyper-inflation of 1923 reached such ethereal heights that housewives used the valueless German currency to kindle fires.
After World War I, Hitler came to control the National Socialist German Workers Party, which he hoped to lead to power in Germany. When a coup attempt in 1923 failed, he turned, after release from jail, to the buildup of the party to seize power by means that were at least outwardly legal. Nazi leader Adolf Hitler (1889-1945) was one of the most powerful and infamous dictators of the 20th century. After World War I, he rose to power in the National Socialist German Workers Party, taking control of the German government in 1933.