Bifidus regularis is a trademarked strain of bacteria developed by Dannon. Also known by its scientific name Bifidobacterium animalis DN-173 010, Bifidus regularis is an ingredient in Dannon's Activa yogurt, though other brands of yogurt may contain similar strains of Bifidobacterium. Foods like yogurt that contain beneficial microorganisms are known as probiotics.
It is known as Bifidobacterium Lactis in Canadian marketing materials, where Lactis uses the Latin root for milk (“lac” / “lact-“) and “is” to suggest a scientific derivation. It is known as “Digestivum Essensis” in German and Austrian marketing materials. The source of “Bifidus” is from the intestinal bacterium Bifidobacterium animalis, a kind of bacteria found in the large intestines of most mammals, including humans. “Actiregularis” is an invented word, the first half of which which emphasises the active nature of the bacteria
Loading ... Bifidus Regularis is the trademarked name for a strain of bacteria developed by Danonn that is used in their Activia yogurt. The same proprietary strain was marketed heavily in the UK, Canada, Austria and Germany under the names Bifidus Digestivum, Bifidus Actiregularis, Bifidobacterium Lactis and Digestivum Essensis. Bifidus Regularis is a proprietary strain of B. lactis. Dannon Company use these bacteria, along with several others, to enrich yogurt products designed specifically to aid with disorders of the digestive tract.
The bacteria is known as Bifidus Actiregularis in UK marketing materials and Bifidus Regularis in marketing materials from the USA. Bifidus Actiregularis used to be called Bifidus Digestivum in UK marketing materials. The source of “Bifidus” is from the intestinal bacterium Bifidobacterium animalis, a kind of bacteria found in the large intestines of most mammals, including humans. “Actiregularis” is an invented word, the first half of which which emphasises the active nature of the bacteria
Bifidus Regularis isn't the actual name of the strain of Probiotic that's in it... for lack of a better term, it's a name brand of the ingredient and Dannon holds the rights to that name so no other company can use Dannon's ingredient in their product. Bifidus Regularis is a type of probiotic used in yogurt. Like all probiotics, it is beneficial to the body. It replaces microorganisms that are necessary to aid in digestion.
Bifidus Regularis is a probiotic bacteria, which means its “friendly” to people and does not cause disease. The French company Groupe Danone trademarked the Bifidus Regularis bacterium, also known as Bifidobacterium lactis DN173010, and included it to their products for added health benefits. 
Bifidus regularis is the trade name for a specific strain of Bifidobacterium lactis, a microorganism reputed to help maintain a healthy balance of bacteria in the human digestive tract. 
Bifidus Regularis. Bifidus regularis is a microorganism that aids in digestion. This probiotic, like other probiotics, adds good bacteria to a person’s digestive system, making the digestive process run smoother. Some people have the mistaken notion that bifidus can be used as a laxative or as medication for digestive problems. 
Bifidus Regularis is a type of probiotic used in Dannon Activa yogurt. Like all probiotics, it is beneficial to the body. It replaces microorganisms that are necessary to aid in digestion. Specifically, it adds beneficial bacteria to the colon, which allows material to pass through the colon more quickly and easily. What Bifidus Regularis Does. Bifidus Regularis is one type of probiotic, designed specifically for Dannon Activia yogurts. It is made of live strains of active bacterial cultures. These cultures are healthy for the colon, replacing good bacteria that can be depleted by age or antibiotic use.