Conwy Castle was built between 1283 and 1289 by King Edward I to replace Deganwy Castle, which was destroyed by Llywelyn the Last in 1263. Conwy Castle’s design and construction were managed and overseen by Jacques de Saint-Georges d'Esperanche (Espéranche james Of Saint) george master. mason 
G uarding the entrance to the River Conwy in Gwynedd, this magnificent castle was built in just five years, beginning in 1283, by the famous Master James of St. George, for King Edward I. The fortifications included not only the castle but more than 3/4ths of a mile of curtain wall and towers which surrounded the town. 
Before the English built the town of Conwy, Aberconwy Abbey, the site was occupied by a Cistercian monastery favoured by the Welsh princes. The location also controlled an important crossing point over the River Conwy between the coastal and inland areas of North Wales, that Deganwy Castle for many years had defended. Conwy Castle (Welsh: Castell Conwy, English: Conway Castle) is a medieval fortification in Conwy, on the north coast of Wales. It was built by Edward I, during his conquest of Wales, between 1283 and 1289. Constructed as part of a wider project to create the walled town of Conwy, the combined defences cost around £15,000, a huge sum for the period. Over the next few centuries, the castle played an important part in several wars
1 Conwy Castle was built between 1283 and 1287. 2  Construction of the Conwy town walls were constructed when the castle was nearing completion. 3  The castle and town were designed to function as one, the perimeter walls bonding the town to the castle. 1 Construction of the Conwy town walls were constructed when the castle was nearing completion. 2  The castle and town were designed to function as one, the perimeter walls bonding the town to the castle. 3  Conwy Castle (and Harlech Castle and many others) were designed by Edward I’s master-builder, James of St. George.
Conwy Castle is visible to the right, with the suspension bridge barely visible. Conway Town and Castle, 1800. Conwy Castle and the town walls were built, on the instruction of Edward I of England, between 1283 and 1289, as part of his conquest of the principality of Wales. Conwy was the original site of Aberconwy Abbey, founded by Llywelyn the Great. 
Conwy Castle (also known as Conway Castle) was built by Edward I in the thirteenth century. It was designed to watch over the walled town of Conwy and formed part of Edward I’s plan to establish a new English colony on a significant Welsh site. Here are ten Conwy Castle facts. 1  Conwy Castle was built between 1283 and 1287. 2  Construction of the Conwy town walls were constructed when the castle was nearing completion. 3  The castle and town were designed to function as one, the perimeter walls bonding the town to the castle. 1 Construction of the Conwy town walls were constructed when the castle was nearing completion. 2  The castle and town were designed to function as one, the perimeter walls bonding the town to the castle. 3  Conwy Castle (and Harlech Castle and many others) were designed by Edward I’s master-builder, James of St. George.
Conwy Castle. In the town of Conwy, Aberconwy & Colwyn, north Wales Map link for Conwy Castle All photographs copyright © 2006 by Jeffrey L. Thomas Above: Conwy Castle viewed from the town wall (tower #13). Below: Conwy's northern towers viewed from the town. Jeff Thomas. Anyone looking at Conwy Castle for the first time will be impressed first and foremost by the unity and compactness of so great a mass of building, with its eight almost identical towers, four on the north and four on the south, pinning it to the rock on which it stands.
Conwy Castle. Conwy Castle, a World Heritage Site, is a magnificent fortress in North Wales. Built by James Saint George for King Edward I, it has towered over the medieval town of Conwy ever since. 
Conwy castle from the Deganwy side of the river. Conwy Castle at night. Night time view of Conwy Castle and the harbour from the bridge over the estuary. Click an image for a larger view, then click through all pictures. It was built between 1283 and 1289 during King Edward I's second campaign in North Wales. Conwy replaced Deganwy Castle, an earlier stronghold built by Henry III that had been destroyed by Llywelyn the Last in 1263. The castle is a Scheduled Ancient Monument and managed by Cadw.