Know your options before beginning your bachelor’s degree program. Print. It’s a common misconception that bachelor’s degrees always take four years to complete. Four years is the traditional amount of time many students take to earn a bachelor’s degree, but it’s different for non-traditional adult students. Online bachelor’s degree programs typically take between three and five years, depending on the amount of time you have to devote to your studies. The required courses are similar to a campus-based program, but are completed either mostly or entirely on the computer.
Compared to a bachelor’s degree, a diploma in culinary arts is the quickest way to train for a job in the food business. A diploma generally takes one to two years to complete, however this depends on which school and program you choose. Some schools offer weekend or evening courses which can be completed in 21 months. 
Formal Education. The Culinary Institute of America's program has its students take more than 38 months of formal training, including more than 1,000 hours of hands-on cooking and baking, to earn its bachelor's certification. Just learning how to cook isn't enough to qualify you for the degree, however. A simple certification can take as little as six weeks. Getting a bachelor's from the Culinary Institute of America, however, takes much longer and starts even before you step foot on campus. One of the requirements among major culinary schools is that you have some experience in the culinary field to start with.
Most universities set full-time enrollment status at a minimum of 12 credit hours per semester, in line with the definition of the U.S. Department of Education, so students may need to take more than a minimum full-time schedule to complete a bachelor's degree in four years. Bachelor's degrees are structured so students taking a full course load can complete the degree requirements in four years, though some professional bachelor's degrees in accounting and architecture may add a fifth year of study. A few programs are structured for shorter completion. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Starting Out. The length of time it takes to get a culinary degree depends on a number of factors, including the school, the type of degree, and even what culinary subset you work toward. A simple certification can take as little as six weeks. Getting a bachelor's from the Culinary Institute of America, however, takes much longer and starts even before you step foot on campus. One of the requirements among major culinary schools is that you have some experience in the culinary field to start with.
Culinary school and cooking school program length Each culinary school offers different kinds of culinary programs, and the culinary arts program lengths vary. Top culinary arts school programs can range anywhere from a few months to 4 or 5 years. The most common culinary arts degrees awarded are the associate degree in culinary arts and the bachelor degree in culinary arts. The culinary arts associate degree can take anywhere from 9 months to 2 years to complete. The Bachelor degree in culinary arts generally takes 3 - years to complete. 
A bachelor’s degree in culinary arts is typically a four-year program, however, this depends on which school or institution you choose. At Bellevue University, students can complete their Bachelor of Science in Culinary Arts degree online after they complete 45 credit hours. A bachelor’s degree in culinary arts management proves that there is more to being a manager than hiring kitchen and dining room staff. The curriculum also focuses on group behaviour, how to enhance revenue by analyzing budgets and costs, current and popular cuisines, and nutrition.