The other reason it is considered OK for juveniles to be tried as adults is that it'll not only make them understand the consequences of their action, but also deter them from committing any further crimes, knowing fully well that they are not given any special consideration because of their age factor. At this age, a child is no longer a child and can be considered an adult. So the children who fall in the higher end of this range, should be punished in the same way as that of adults, it is argued. Though, most courts in the U.S.A. rule out the death penalty for children aged 16 and lower.
I agree that teens should be tried as adults because when my older bro was 15 he molested me and my (at the time they were 10months and 2 years old) god son Wyatt and cousin Alex, and he was put in jail for 6months but they did not try him as an adult which didn't teach him anything. Some say stop trying them as adults and try them as juveniles, others say they must be tried as adults when they commit adult crimes. I believe that teens should be held accountable for their actions and tried as adults.
Juveniles are juveniles. Being a juvenile comes with the fact that they ARE juveniles. It is science and fact that juvenile brains are NOT fully developed. They do not think and act like adults. Be responsible for what you did! Minors should be tried as adults because they made the same mistakes as adults. If they had the guts to break the law they should have the responsibility to face what they did.
Should teenagers who commit serious crimes be tried as juveniles or adults? What happens to young offenders who reach the 'end of the line' in the juvenile court system-and how do you rehabilitate these young people to prevent future criminal behavior? 
If rehabilitation is the goal for teenagers who are tried and sentenced as adults, then prison is not the answer. There should be a different place for youth offenders. Prison is too violent, and the necessary programs that can contribute to young prisoners’ rehabilitation are underfunded. If rehabilitation is the goal for teenagers who are tried and sentenced as adults, then prison is not the answer. This happens even though courts have said that juveniles are different from adults and in some situations must be treated differently.
Juveniles should deffinatley be tried as adults because, its not like they dont know what they are doing. Now a days people are smarter than you think, with the increase in technology, you cant take anyone for granite. Be responsible for what you did! Minors should be tried as adults because they made the same mistakes as adults. If they had the guts to break the law they should have the responsibility to face what they did.
1. Proponents for trying juveniles as adults believe that a crime is a crime, even if the person who committed it was very young at the time. Typically, juveniles who display a propensity for committing crime will continue to do so, even as they get older. Their crimes may even become more serious in nature.
1 New York-A juvenile is anyone under the age of 16, but at least 7 years old. 2  Children who are 13, 14, and 15 years old who commit more serious or violent crimes can be tried as adults. 3  Illinois-A juvenile is anyone under the age of 17. 1 Children who are 13, 14, and 15 years old who commit more serious or violent crimes can be tried as adults. 2  Illinois-A juvenile is anyone under the age of 17. 3  Anyone 13 years old and above can be tried as an adult if he or she has a record of previously breaking the law or commits a serious crime.
In most states, a juvenile offender must be at least 16 to be eligible for waiver to adult court. But, in a number of states, minors as young as 13 could be subjected to a waiver petition. And a few states allow children of any age to be tried as adults for certain types of crimes, such as homicide. 
Like many states, California allows youth offenders as young as 14 to be transferred from the juvenile system to adult courts. From there, most of the teenagers who are tried as adults and sentenced to life in adult institutions are placed in Level 4 maximum-security prisons that are extremely violent. If rehabilitation is the goal for teenagers who are tried and sentenced as adults, then prison is not the answer. This happens even though courts have said that juveniles are different from adults and in some situations must be treated differently.