The historic site is owned and operated by the Friends of Ernie Pyle, a nonprofit organization dedicated to the preservation and advancement of Pyle’s legacy in Dana, as well as throughout Indiana and the nation. Pyle was born on August 3, 1900, to a tenant farm family just outside of Dana. He was an only child. Welcome to the online home of the Ernie Pyle World War II Museum. Located in the west-central Indiana town of Dana, the site features Ernie Pyle’s birthplace and a museum highlighting the famous journalist’s life and writings as a correspondent during World War II.
Prior to World War II, Ernie Pyle (1900-1945) had spent seven years travelling the country, collecting stories for his daily feature column for the Scripps Howard chain. In 1940 he went abroad to cover the Battle of Britain, and distinguished himself as a gifted war correspondent. 
Ernie Pyle, the son of a farmer, was born in 1900. After studying journalism at Indiana University he found work on a small newspaper in La Porte, Indiana. In 1923 he moved to the Washington Daily News and eventually became the paper's managing editor. In 1945 Pyle was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for journalism. Later that year he went with US troops to Okinawa. On 17th April, 1945, Ernie Pyle was killed by a Japanese sniper while on a routine patrol on 17th April, 1945.
Publisher. A+E Networks. During World War II, journalist Ernie Pyle, America’s most popular war correspondent, is killed by Japanese machine-gun fire on the island of Ie Shima in the Pacific. Pyle, born in Dana, Indiana, first began writing a column for the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain in 1935
For many journalists, Ernest Taylor Pyle, an Indiana native better known as Ernie, continues to be an icon of excellence decades after his death at the hands of a Japanese machine-gunner in World War II. As his fame increased during the war, other newspapers, including weekly ones, published Pyle’s work. In 1944 Ernie Pyle won a Pulitzer Prize for his stories about the ordinary soldiers fighting in World War II. On these pages is a selection of his wartime columns in both written and spoken versions.
Ernest Taylor Pyle (August 3, 1900 – April 18, 1945) was a Pulitzer Prize –winning American journalist. As a roving correspondent for the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain, he earned wide acclaim for his accounts of ordinary people in rural America, and later, of ordinary American soldiers during World War II. 1 The Ernie Pyle Theater in downtown Tokyo was visited by many GIs from 1945 to 1955. 2  In the fall of 2014, a bronze statue of Pyle was erected in front of Franklin Hall on the Indiana University Campus. 3  Franklin Hall will house the Media School, which now includes the department of journalism.
Ernie Pyle. Ernie Pyle (1900-1945) was America's most beloved and famous war correspondent during World War II. His sympathetic accounts of the ordinary GI made him the champion of American fighting men. COPYRIGHT 2004 The Gale Group Inc. Ernie Pyle (1900-1945) was America's most beloved and famous war correspondent during World War II. His sympathetic accounts of the ordinary GI made him the champion of American fighting men.