During the final stages of cancer, problems may occur in several parts of the body. 1  Digestive system: If cancer is in the digestive system (e.g., stomach, pancreas, or colon), food or waste may not be able to pass through, causing bloating, nausea, or vomiting. 
Throat cancer is classified into several stages according to the severity of the tumor and its spread throughout the body. Stage 1:-. At this stage, the size of the tumor is very small and it is in a developing phase. It has not damaged the lymph nodes or any other area of the throat. Before understanding throat cancer stages it is very important to have a brief idea about the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of the disease. Symptoms of this tumor include:-. 1  Constant cough. 2  Fever. 3  Coughing up of blood. 4  Excessive weight loss
It can be difficult to detect throat cancer in its early stages. Common signs and symptoms of throat cancer include: 1  a change in your voice. 2  trouble swallowing. 3  weight loss. 4  sore throat. 5  persistent cough (may cough up blood). 6  swollen lymph nodes in the neck. These abnormal cells form malignant growths called tumors. Throat cancer refers to cancer of the voice box, the vocal cords, and other parts of the throat, such as the tonsils and the oropharynx. Raise money to cover your cancer treatment costs.
Throat cancer stages. Making an educated treatment decision begins with the stage, or progression, of the disease. The stage of throat cancer is one of the most important factors in evaluating treatment options. Our cancer doctors use a variety of diagnostic tests to evaluate throat cancer and develop an individualized treatment plan.
The signs and symptoms of throat cancer can be quite variable. The most common symptoms are a persistent sore throat, trouble swallowing, a lump in the neck, a change in voice, or ear pain. The clinical appearance of throat cancer ranges from symptomatic white patches to large wounds. 
Throat cancer stages. Making an educated treatment decision begins with the stage, or progression, of the disease. The stage of throat cancer is one of the most important factors in evaluating treatment options. Our cancer doctors use a variety of diagnostic tests to evaluate throat cancer and develop an individualized treatment plan.
The signs and symptoms will vary, depending on the stage of cancer. The most common signs are lumps in the neck, trouble in swallowing, sore throat, hoarseness, disfigurement of the neck or face, hardening of the skin, coughing up blood, and ear pain. Throat Cancer Prognosis-Stage 4. With a survival rate of almost 30%, stage 4 throat cancer is a matter of grave concern. At this stage, the cancer has already spread to the lymph nodes and other organs.
Sign Up. Treatment can include some combination of surgery, radiation and chemotherapy. However, sometimes in the final stage of throat cancer it’s too advanced to be cured, so then treatment focuses on alleviating symptoms and making life as comfortable as possible. Best Answer. 
Your doctor can use a variety of tests to stage your throat cancer. Imaging tests like a CT scan or an MRI will allow your doctor to take a closer look at the chest, neck and head, giving him or her a better picture of the disease’s progression. These abnormal cells form malignant growths called tumors. Throat cancer refers to cancer of the voice box, the vocal cords, and other parts of the throat, such as the tonsils and the oropharynx. Raise money to cover your cancer treatment costs.