Gastrointestinal Effects. Brewer's yeast is sometimes used to treat diarrhea and constipation. It can have a similar water-binding effect to fiber. The more common side effects of supplementing with brewer's yeast are those of a gastrointestinal nature, such as gas, flatulence and a laxative effect. Brewer's yeast can have adverse effects as well as beneficial ones. You can use brewer's yeast, the type used to make beer, not bread, as a nutritional supplement. It can potentially lower your risk for high cholesterol and help you control your weight and blood sugar levels, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center website
Nutritional Yeast: The Good and the Bad and What You Need to Know If You Seek a Stronger Immune System. All your questions answered on nutritional yeast, including what you might NOT know about brewer's and baker's yeasts and which yeast is actually an immune system booster! At Body Ecology we teach about microflora... the beneficial bacteria and yeast in your inner ecosystem that are essential immune system boosters. While candida albicans is an example of a harmful yeast, It's important to know that there are also yeasts that are very beneficial for your health. Just because a food or drink contains yeast, this does not mean that it is necessarily a damaging yeast.
People who follow a vegan diet use nutritional yeast as a dietary supplement. Nutritional yeast may be used as a garnish on top of some dishes or as an ingredient in the mixture. From a health point of view, nutritional yeast scores extremely high. It contains many proteins, vitamins and minerals. B-complex vitamins are present in this food item. These side effects are similar to those suffered by people who have a problem with monosodium glutamate, MSG. These side effects include chest pains, digestive distress and a feeling of being bloated. This is because there is a type of glutamate that may be present in the yeast as well.
Not yeast. Bacteria is the source. Nutritional Yeast is not like regular yeast. Too much Nutritional Yeast... no side effects. You will just be wasting your money because all the excess will go down the toilet unused by your body, but your body will still use energy to break it down... so you will also wast your body's energy too. 
However, brewer's yeast can also cause side effects, especially if you have certain health conditions. Brewer's yeast is sometimes used to treat diarrhea and constipation. It can have a similar water-binding effect to fiber. The more common side effects of supplementing with brewer's yeast are those of a gastrointestinal nature, such as gas, flatulence and a laxative effect. Brewer's yeast can have adverse effects as well as beneficial ones. You can use brewer's yeast, the type used to make beer, not bread, as a nutritional supplement. It can potentially lower your risk for high cholesterol and help you control your weight and blood sugar levels, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center website
Nutritional yeast is a culinary supplement that can be used as a flavoring agent. Nutritional yeast is a yellow colored powder like substance. Depending on the manufacturer, it may taste like some nuts, like parmesan cheese or like cream. These side effects are similar to those suffered by people who have a problem with monosodium glutamate, MSG. These side effects include chest pains, digestive distress and a feeling of being bloated. This is because there is a type of glutamate that may be present in the yeast as well.
Don't confuse nutritional yeast with baker's yeast, which is still active and could grow inside your stomach, depriving you of nutrients, or with brewer's yeast, which is inactive but distinctly bitter. Purchase nutritional yeast at almost any health food store, usually in bulk. 
BREWER'S YEAST Side Effects & Safety. Brewer's yeast seems POSSIBLY SAFE for most people when taken by mouth short-term. It can cause headache, stomach discomfort, and gas (flatulence). Not enough is known about the safety of long-term use of brewer’s yeast. Stick with short-term use. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking brewer’s yeast by mouth if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Yeast allergy: People who are allergic or sensitive to yeast might experience itching and swelling. Crohn’s disease: Brewer's yeast can make Crohn's disease worse. Don’t use brewer’s yeast if you have Crohn’s disease.
There is also low sodium content. All these facts make it clear that nutritional yeast is a champion for anybody suffering from a condition that requires them to reduce fat intake and reduce sodium intake. It is important to note that some people may suffer from side effects when consuming nutritional yeast. These side effects are similar to those suffered by people who have a problem with monosodium glutamate, MSG. These side effects include chest pains, digestive distress and a feeling of being bloated. This is because there is a type of glutamate that may be present in the yeast as well.