Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Strongyloidiasis is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Contagiousness has nothing to do with genetics or inheriting diseases from parents. Transmission of Strongyloidiasis from Person to Person. Strongyloidiasis is considered infectious but is not transmitted from person to person. Generally, a disease like this is caused by an infectious agent and not spread between people. Strongyloidiasis, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene
Disease. Most people infected with Strongyloides do not know they’re infected. If they do feel sick the most common complaints are the following: Abdominal. 1  stomachache, bloating, and heartburn. 2  intermittent episodes of diarrhea and constipation. 3  nausea and loss of appetit
Strongyloidiasis: The parasitic roundworm called Strongyloides stercoralis mainly infects humans. This parasite has different types of life cycles. ... more about Strongyloidiasis. Strongyloidiasis: A parasitic infectious disease involving the intestines and caused by the nematode Strongyloides stercoralis. 
Treatment. Like the infective larvae of all nematodes, the Strongyloides larva is resistant to most chemical agents. Unlike other intestinal nematode infections, treatment of Strongyloidiasis depends on the complete elimination of the organism, rather than a simple decrease in the worms in the host. 
Strongyloidiasis is caused by the nematode (roundworm) Strongyloides stercoralis. The genus Strongyloides is classified in the order Rhabditida, and most members are soil-dwelling microbiverous nematodes. Most of the 52 species of Strongyloides do not infect humans. S stercoralis is the most common human pathogen. Other species include S myopotami and S procyonis. These species have animal hosts and are thus responsible for zoonotic infections. The life cycle of Strongyloides stercoralis is complex and unique among the intestinal nematodes. This worm has 2 types of life cycles—a free-living life cycle (rhabditiform larvae) and a parasitic life cycle (filariform infective larvae)—with 3 developmental stages: adult, rhabditiform larva, and filariform larva.
Strongyloides is most common in tropical or subtropical climates. Most people who are infected with Strongyloides do not know they are infected and have no symptoms. Others may develop a severe form and, if untreated, become critically ill and potentially die. Image: Left: Adult free-living female S. stercoralis.
Strongyloides Stercoralis. Strongyloides stercoralis is a 2 mm long intestinal worm causing a disease called strongyloidiasis. It is common in tropical and subtropical areas but also occurs in temperate zones. Unlike most parasitic worms, Strongyloides stercoralis has a heterogonic life cycle. 
Strongyloidiasis is an intestinal infection caused by 2 species of the parasitic nematode Strongyloides. The most common and clinically important pathogenic species in humans is S stercoralis (see the following image). S fuelleborni is found sporadically in Africa and Papua New Guinea. The life cycle of Strongyloides stercoralis is complex and unique among the intestinal nematodes. This worm has 2 types of life cycles—a free-living life cycle (rhabditiform larvae) and a parasitic life cycle (filariform infective larvae)—with 3 developmental stages: adult, rhabditiform larva, and filariform larva.