In eighteen eighty-two, Annie took the name Oakley. She and Frank Butler started putting on shows together, demonstrating their abilities to shoot a gun. Frank Butler was the star of the show and Annie Oakley was his assistant. However, sometimes she did her own shooting. Two years later, Annie Oakley met the famous Native American chief, Sitting Bull, at a performance. The chief liked her skill in shooting and also her personality. She did not grow up in the Wild West, nor did she fight in any battles. Annie Oakley was a performer in a traveling Wild West show. She used her skill at shooting a gun to become one of the most famous sharp shooters in American history. Annie Oakley was born in eighteen sixty in Darke County, Ohio.
Early Life. Annie Oakley was born Phoebe Ann Moses (or as some sources say, Mosey) on August 13, 1860, in Darke County, Ohio. She is remembered as one of the leading women of the American West. 
Annie Oakley was born Phoebe Ann (Annie) Mosey on August 13, 1860, in a cabin less than 2 miles northwest of Woodland, now Willowdell, in Darke County, Ohio, a rural western border county of Ohio. Her birthplace log cabin site is about five miles east of North Star. Annie Oakley (born Phoebe Ann Mosey; August 13, 1860 – November 3, 1926) was an American sharpshooter and exhibition shooter. Her amazing talent first came to light when the then 15-year-old won a shooting match with traveling show marksman Frank E. Butler (whom she married)
Annie Oakley is born Phoebe Ann Moses on the family farm in Darke County, Ohio, fifth of seven surviving children. Her Quaker parents, Jacob and Susan, have moved from Pennsylvania, where they ran an inn. In Ohio, the family supports itself with subsistence farming. Annie, who has returned to her mother's house, starts shooting game in the woods and selling it to a Greenville shopkeeper. Annie does so well that she is able to pay off the $200 mortgage on her mother's home.
Answer   Annie Oakley was an exceptional sharpshooter and her ability caused her to get a part with Buffalo Bill in the Buffalo Bill Wild West show. She was the first fem … ale superstar. Her real name was Phoebe Ann Mozee. Annie Oakley was about nine years old when she first started to shoot. Annie also taught herself to shoot at the same age. Annie had to teach herself how to shoot because her … father died when she was 6 years old of overexposure to cold weather.
Annie Oakley Summary Information: Annie Oakley was the stage name of Phoebe Ann Moses, a sharpshooter whose skill at shooting led her to star in Buffalo Bill’s Wild West show and made her a national celebrity. Annie, born Phoebe Ann Moses in Ohio’s Darke County on August 13, 1860, got her gun at an early age but didn’t shoot her way to everlasting fame until after William ‘Buffalo Bill’ Cody put her on the payroll in 1885.
Annie Oakley was a pioneer of sexual equality and a star performer in Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show. Annie Oakley was born Phoebe Moses, to a poor Quaker family and spent her early years living in a cabin in Darke County, on the western border of the state. Her father died when she was six
Annie Oakley. Annie Oakley was born in a log cabin on August 13, 1860 in Darke County Ohio. Her real name was Phoebe Ann Moses, and she was the one of eight children born on a family farm. Annies father died when she was five years old because he got caught in a severe snowstorm and froze to death. 
Annie Oakley was born Phoebe Ann Moses in 1860 in rural Darke County, Ohio. Her father died when she was young, and Annie was sent to the county poor farm. 