1 More than 60% of the peacock’s body is covered with feathers. 2  The males are chosen by females on the basis of their color, size, and length of the feathers. 3  Peafowl lays 3 – 5 eggs in one month. 4  The average lifespan of peacocks is 20 years. 5  The peacocks are 35 – 50 in (90 – 130 cm) long. 1 In females, there is a mixture of dull green and brown color in a plumage. 2  The plumage color differs as we move around several peacock species. 3  The color of the wings is black but it gives blue shine. 4  There is a combination of red and blue color in brown feathers.
Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) are beautiful birds that are native to Southeast Asia. The male peafowl is called a peacock; the female peafowl is called a peahen. In the wild, they live in deciduous tropical rainforests. Peacocks do not migrate. A group of peafowl is called a muster. Anatomy: The male peafowl, the peacock, is about 7 feet long with a full train. The female, the peahen, is about 3 feet long.
1 While the predators arrive, peacocks tend to hide themselves in the trees. 2  Harem is the combined name of peahens (females). 3  Party is the collective name of a group of peacocks. 4  Bevy is the name given to the family of peacocks. 1 In females, there is a mixture of dull green and brown color in a plumage. 2  The plumage color differs as we move around several peacock species. 3  The color of the wings is black but it gives blue shine. 4  There is a combination of red and blue color in brown feathers.
Basically there are two species of flying birds that belongs to the pheasant family and is known as peafowl. The male is identified as a peacock whereas females are called peahen; juveniles (chicks) are recognized as peachicks. Peacock is the national bird of India. 1 In females, there is a mixture of dull green and brown color in a plumage. 2  The plumage color differs as we move around several peacock species. 3  The color of the wings is black but it gives blue shine. 4  There is a combination of red and blue color in brown feathers.
Even though most people call them peacocks however, these birds are called peafowl because only male peafowl is recognized by the name of peacock. 1  Blue or Indian Peafowl. 2  Congo Peafowl. 3  Green Peafowl. Facts about Peacocks. 1  Male peafowl are known as peacocks while females are generally called peahens. 2  Group name of peahens is called Harem whereas in case of peacocks, it’s a party. 3  The weight of peacocks ranges from 1 kilogram to 6 kilograms.
Indian blue peafowl, Pavo cristatus, (also known as peacocks) are native to Sri Lanka and India, but can also be found naturally in Pakistan, Kashmir, Nepal, Assam, Nagaland, Burma, Java, Ceylon, Malaya, and the Congo. Peafowl are prized possessions and therefore can be found in any country in captivity through trade. 
The peacock (also known as peafowl) is a medium sized bird most closely related to the pheasant. Unlike it's common pheasant cousin that inhabits areas of the Northern Hemisphere, the peacock is found in warmer climate of the Southern Hemisphere, with the peacock being most commonly found in India. The male peacock is most well known for it's enormous tail feathers that fan out behind the peacock and can be nearly two meters in length. This colourful display of the peacock is thought to be used for both mating and defence purposes.
The male Indian Peafowl, commonly known as the peacock, is one of the most recognizable birds in the world. These large, brightly colored birds have a distinctive crest and an unmistakable ornamental train. The train (1.4-1.6 meters in length) accounts for more than 60% of their total body length (2.3 meters). 
(Redirected from Indian Peafowl). The Indian peafowl or blue peafowl (Pavo cristatus), a large and brightly coloured bird, is a species of peafowl native to South Asia, but introduced in many other parts of the world. Besides its native habitat, the bird has been introduced by humans to the United States, Mexico, Honduras, Colombia, Guyana, Suriname, Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina, South Africa, Madagascar, Mauritius, Reunion, Réunion, Indonesia Papua New guinea And, australia and. elsewhere