Huayna Picchu. Huayna Picchu is the large mountain that you can see behind Machu Picchu. There is a narrow winding path leading to the top where you can find some interesting Inca ruins. There are stunning views over Machu Picchu and the surrounding mountains and the Vilcanota River below. 
Machu Picchu is located 2430 m (7970 ft) above sea level on a ridge between the Huayna Picchu and Machu Picchu mountains in Peru. On July 24, 1911, American explorer Hiram Bingham III with the help of Melchor Arteaga, re-discovered Machu Picchu. Bingham bought word of the ruins to the outside world. 
(Take a Machu Picchu quiz.) Here are some of the top theories about Machu Picchu proposed—and in some cases disproven—in the century since its rediscovery. 1) Machu Picchu Was the Last Inca City During his lifetime, Bingham, of Yale University, had two theories regarding the purpose of Machu Picchu. 
The city sits in a saddle between the two mountains Machu Picchu and Huayna Picchu, with a commanding view down two valleys and a nearly impassable mountain at its back. It has a water supply from springs that cannot be blocked easily, and enough land to grow food for about four times as many people as ever lived there. Machu Picchu was declared a Peruvian Historical Sanctuary in 1981 and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll. Machu Picchu was built in the classical Inca style, with polished dry-stone walls.
Machu Picchu (in hispanicized spelling, [ˈmatʃu ˈpiktʃu]) or Machu Pikchu (Quechua machu old, old person, pikchu peak; mountain or prominence with a broad base which ends in sharp peaks, old peak, pronunciation [ˈmɑtʃu ˈpixtʃu]) is a 15th-century Inca site located 2,430 metres (7,970 ft) above sea level. Machu Picchu was declared a Peruvian Historical Sanctuary in 1981 and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983. In 2007, Machu Picchu was voted one of the New Seven Wonders of the World in a worldwide Internet poll. Machu Picchu was built in the classical Inca style, with polished dry-stone walls.
Machu Picchu is a 15th-century Inca site located on a ridge between the Huayna Picchu and Machu Picchu mountains in Peru. It sits 7,970 feet (2,430 meters) above sea level on the eastern slope of the Andes and overlooks the Urubamba River hundreds of feet below. An emperor’s abode. Machu Picchu is believed to have been built by Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, the ninth ruler of the Inca, in the mid-1400s. An empire builder, Pachacuti initiated a series of conquests that would eventually see the Inca grow into a South American realm that stretched from Ecuador to Chile.
Once in the site, there are no food or drinks for sale, though it is possible to leave and return. 1  Tinkuy Buffet Restaurant, Machu Picchu Sanctuary Lodge, ☎ +51 84 21 1039/38, [1]. 11:30-15:00. 2  A casual lunch buffet. 3  The food is decent and the restaurant quite busy at peak times. Peru Rail (Cusco or Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes) is a concession run by foreign investors, so much of the money does not stay in Peru. (Some people take this into account when they choose their way to get to Machu Picchu.) Inca Rail (Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes) is a concession run by Peruvian investors.
Tickets for bus. There are buses that travel to the Sanctuary from Machu Picchu town, leaving every 15 minutes from 05:30 am onwards. This interval is offered until 3:30 p.m. and return buses leave between 6:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. 
Machu Picchu is the site of an ancient Inca city, high in the Andes of Peru. Located at 2,430m (8,000 ft), this UNESCO World Heritage site is often referred to as The Lost City of the Incas. Peru Rail (Cusco or Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes) is a concession run by foreign investors, so much of the money does not stay in Peru. (Some people take this into account when they choose their way to get to Machu Picchu.) Inca Rail (Ollantaytambo to Aguas Calientes) is a concession run by Peruvian investors.
In Machu Picchu town, you can found cheap restaurants, pizzerias, and Peruvian cuisine restaurants. The main hotels in Machu Pichu offers for guest and non-guest international, Peruvian and Andean cuisine-buffet lunch. 