(Sources (FAO). The tropical steppe climate is a transitional climate between the tropical wet and tropical dry climates. The controlling factors of the climate are similar to that of the tropical dry climate, though temperatures are cooler and annual precipitation is higher. 
1 Hawaii has a tropical rainforest climate. 2  Monsoon climates can be found in southern Asia and West Africa. 3  Africa’s Serengeti Plain is an example of a wet dry tropical climate. 4  The rain forest climate sounds ideal, but it is very humid here and there are lots of mosquitoes and bugs. Tropical climates are found in areas that lie close to the equator. Here the sun shines intensely. Within tropical climates, there are three groups: tropical wet; tropical wet and dry; and tropical monsoon. Tropical wet regions, also known as rain forests, have the most predictable weather on earth
A tropical climate is a climate typically found within the Tropics, while a few locations outside the Tropics are considered to have a tropical climate. In the Koeppen köppen climate classification it is a-non arid climate in which all twelve months have mean temperatures of at least °18 (c °64). f Within the tropical climate zone there are distinct varieties based on precipitation: 1  Tropical rainforest climate (Af): All twelve months have average precipitation of at least 60 mm (2.4 in).
As you can see in the map the location of Tropical Dry and Wet Climates can be found north and south of the Equator within the tropical belt. A good example that illustrates the climate type can be read in the tail of two cities, referring to Kano and Lagos in Nigeria below. The general pattern of the tropical climate is warm temperatures. Depending on the type of tropical climate, humidity is variable with Equatorial climates experiencing large quantities of precipitation all year round and Tropical Wet and Dry and Tropical Monsoon climates expereincing seasonal shifts in rain patterns.
Tropical Climates. Tropical climates are found in areas that lie close to the equator. Here the sun shines intensely. Within tropical climates, there are three groups: tropical wet; tropical wet and dry; and tropical monsoon. Tropical wet regions, also known as rain forests, have the most predictable weather on earth
The map below shows the areas within the tropics which have all 12 months of the year with temperatures above 18 °C. The three types of tropical climate are classified as Tropical Rainforest or Equatorial (Af), Tropical Monsoon (Am) and Tropical Wet and Dry or Savannah (Aw). The general pattern of the tropical climate is warm temperatures. Depending on the type of tropical climate, humidity is variable with Equatorial climates experiencing large quantities of precipitation all year round and Tropical Wet and Dry and Tropical Monsoon climates expereincing seasonal shifts in rain patterns.
(Source: FAO) The Tropical Wet/Dry climate is located on the poleward sides of the tropical wet climates, positioned between them and the tropical dry climates. Also known as the Savanna climate, it supports a ground cover of drought resistant grasses with scattered trees, but not enough rainfall to make agriculture a viable, life sustaining activity. Geographical Location The Tropical Wet/Dry climate lies at latitudes of about 5o - 10o and 15o - 20o.
Tropical Rainforest Vegetation. Location and Climate of the Tropical Rainforest. Tropical rainforests cover about 6% of the Earth's total land surface. They are mainly located around the belt at the equator. The climate of the rainforest is warm most of the year and has a lot of rain through most of the year. 
Subtypes [edit]. Within the tropical climate zone there are distinct varieties based on precipitation: 1  Tropical rainforest climate (Af): All twelve months have average precipitation of at least 60 mm (2.4 in). 2  These climates usually occur within 5–10° latitude of the equator