Ultra sound tech education. It takes two years to become an ultrasound technician. You will need an associate’s degree and then will need a certification or license depending on your state. You do not have to study sonography to get this job, though. Many sonographers graduate with nursing degrees or start as radiologic technologists.
The length of your education depends on your career goals. To get started in a career as an ultrasound tech, you need a minimum of two years at an accredited allied health educational institution. There are schools available both online and offline that are able to provide you with this associate’s degree in sonography. If you’re looking at how long it takes to become a working, professional ultrasound technician, you have to include job search time in the equation.The graph below indicates how long most people search for a job before either finding one or dropping out of the workforce entirely.
Most sonographers take a two or four year college program to become accredited or they learn in-house on the job. If you have a degree in nursing, for example, you might be offered the chance to learn ultrasound technology as well. This is a wonderful way to increase your pay and your resume. The initial research is very a important step for finding a schools, courses, and teachers that are right for you and your career goals! While the job of ultrasound technician is a popular job in the health care field, there are still a fairly small number of people doing it.
Ultrasound technician schools require that you have a high school diploma or a GED. Depending on the level of degree you are studying for, you may need to take a year of basic courses such as communications, logic and mathematics, psychology, biology and chemistry. Learn to become an ultrasound technician, and then search from 262 accredited schools across the country. You can scroll down to see the listings. During your ultrasound technician training, you have the ability to earn a certificate, an associate degree, or a bachelor's degree.
3. Earn a great salary. Your ultrasound technician training will qualify you for a job with great salary potential. According to the 2014 data from Salary.com, the middle 50 percent of ultrasound technicians earn between $62,037 and $74,566. 4. Use your skills to help people. You'll be preparing for a job you can feel good about. 
Ultrasound technologists should complete an accredited training program. Depending on the program, it can take anywhere from one to four years to complete. Accredited ultrasound programs can be found at community colleges (a two-year associate’s degree) or four-year institutions (a bachelor’s degree). Accredited certificate programs are also available for people who have previous healthcare degrees and usually take 12 to 15 months. Salary. The annual median salary for ultrasound technologists is $67,530, with a range of $46,930 to $93,850, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics as of May 2014. Technologists working in outpatient centers and specialty hospitals generally had slightly higher salaries than those working in other settings.
Veterinary technicians are required (in most states) to have a 2 year degree in veterinary technology from an AVMA accredited veterinary technology program, to have passed the … Veterinary Technician National Exam and a state exam in order to be credentialed. If you want to be on TV and get an AMS seal and call yourself a meteorologist, you have to have a four year degree. The requirements for becoming a meteorologist are quite stringent and it does take four years as a minimum to take all the required physics, mathematics and meteorology courses.