Please click on the subject area(s) for which you are required to take COMPASS Placement Testing. There are paper versions of practice COMPASS tests for English, Math, and Reading in Chart Your Success on COMPASS, available for use in the tutoring centers on all campuses. 
Nursing Compass Entrance Exam. COMPASS is a comprehensive, computer-adaptive testing program that quickly and accurately assesses students' skill levels in reading and mathematics. Because it is adaptive, the length of the test will vary based upon the individuals' knowledge. **If you are under 21 years of age and have taken the ACT, you may not be required to take the COMPASS exam if you scored a minimum of 19 in Math, 19 in Reading, and 19 in English (a 19 composite score is not accepted).
That ends up wasting time and money. By studying for-and taking the COMPASS test-you'll get your college career off to a great start. The COMPASS Placement Test is part of Columbus State's admissions and registration process. All students who plan to register for courses with reading, writing or math prerequisites must complete the COMPASS Placement Test. The COMPASS Placement Test is an untimed, adaptive, computer-based college placement exam. The test changes for each student based on performance. If a student gets a question correct, they next receive a question of greater difficulty and higher value.
As of Summer semester 2012 and beyond, the COMPASS is used as an entrance exam to determine admissibility to East Georgia State College. Students are required to take the COMPASS placement exam prior to P.A.W.S. New Student Orientation in order to determine specific requirements for remediation in Reading, English, and Mathematics in addition to admissibility. If you are a student that needs accommodations on our COMPASS Exam or have an IEP, you will need to coordinate these accommodations with the Counseling and Disability Services Office at (478) 289-2039.
COMPASS exam requirements are determined by the SAT Critical Reading and Math scores or ACT English and Math scores, in addition to, meeting the 4 Required High School Curriculum (RHSC) units in English and Math. If you are a student that needs accommodations on our COMPASS Exam or have an IEP, you will need to coordinate these accommodations with the Counseling and Disability Services Office at (478) 289-2039.
COMPASS Entrance Exam Testing Policy. The Testing Services will administer the COMPASS Entrance Exam primarily to Middle Georgia State University applicants. Students from other institutions may take the Compass Entrance Exam at Middle Georgia State on a space-available basis and must pay a $35 testing fee before taking the test. 
The College Placement Exam, COMPASS, is a computerized placement exam that tests reading, writing, and math skills. If you are a student that needs accommodations on our COMPASS Exam or have an IEP, you will need to coordinate these accommodations with the Counseling and Disability Services Office at (478) 289-2039.
good day students and welcome to the compass practice test, sample questions college algebra. i'm going to be going over the release questions, they are available online. so let's go ahead and take a look at question 1, there are nine questions, in this, on the release questions, i'm going to go over all of them. 