In Illinois, you have to work for your employer for 30 days in order for that employer to be chargeable for unemployment benefits in the event you become unemployed. Regular unemployment benefits: If you meet the eligibility requirements of the law, you will have some income while you are looking for a job, up to a maximum of 26 full weeks … in a one-year period.
124 including my days off. I work in illinois. : Your benefits are determined by how much wages you earned and not by how long you worked. Your weekly benefit amount is determined by the total wages paid to you by each of your employers during your base period. Whether you are eligible for unemployment benefits depends if you earned enough work credits/wages. It does not depend on how long you worked. Since you have applied, you need to wait to see what unemployment office decides. Phillips Esq., Attorney-at-Law.
Reasons for Unemployment. You must be out of work through no fault of your own to qualify for unemployment benefits. Layoffs. If you are laid off, lose your job in a reduction-in-force (RIF), or get downsized for economic reasons, you will meet this requirement. Eligibility for Unemployment in Florida. There are three eligibility requirements to collect unemployment in Florida: 1  Your past earnings must meet certain minimum thresholds. 2  You must be unemployed through no fault of your own, as defined by Florida law. 3  You must be able, available, and actively looking for work.
You must have been paid at least $1,900 in wages in one of the calendar quarters in your base period, AND. The total wages paid to you in your base period must be one and one-half times your high quarter wages. We use no more than $9,240 of your high quarter earnings to determine if you qualify. You must have earned at least half that amount ($4,620) in the other base period quarters. If you qualify using the Basic base period, we use that period to establish your claim. 1  If you do not qualify in the Basic base period, we will calculate using the Alternate base period.
You can collect the equivalent of 26 weeks of total unemployment benefits on a claim. A claim is in effect for a one-year period. Within that claim year, maximum benefits would be 26 times your Weekly Benefit Rate. Using the previous example, with a Weekly Benefit Rate of $152, you would be entitled to collect $3,952. 
If you didn’t work very long during your benefit period, you may not accumulate enough earnings to make you eligible for an unemployment check. In California, you must earn at least $1,300 in one quarter of your base period. Eligibility Requirements. Most states want you to work a minimum amount of time, or make a minimum amount of money during your base period. If you haven’t been employed long, your benefits will be figured with an alternate
Depending on the state, there are also minimal levels of earnings required over the 12-month period in order to be eligible for receiving unemployment benefits. While unemployment benefits may cover up to 50% of your earned wages, most states also have established a cap on how much you can receive. Meaning, if 50% of your wages is an amount over the maximum benefits, then you will not receive 50%. Therefore, the question is not only about how long you have to work to be eligible to receive unemployment, but it is also about how much you have to of earn during that time to qualify for unemployment….
Base Amount. Most states require you to earn at least a base amount in one of the last four quarters, and to earn one and a half times that amount in all. For example, if you must earn at least $700 in one quarter, you also must earn at least $1,750 in total to qualify for unemployment. State laws vary on the maximum amount of time you can receive benefits. In many states, you may receive benefits for between 72 and 79 weeks. Each state has slightly different rules about who qualifies for unemployment. Most states require you to have worked for one employer for at least two of the last four quarters. Some states, such as New Jersey, require you to have worked for one employer for 20 weeks out of the last 52.
You must work for a certain period of time before you can receive unemployment so that employees who have paid in to the unemployment system with their time can reap the benefits while those who have not put in the time do not get benefits. Each state has slightly different rules about who qualifies for unemployment. Most states require you to have worked for one employer for at least two of the last four quarters. Some states, such as New Jersey, require you to have worked for one employer for 20 weeks out of the last 52.