In most courts in the United States, the party seeking the preliminary injunction must demonstrate all four things together: 1  That there is a substantial likelihood of success on the merits of the case, 2  That they face a substantial threat of irreparable damage or injury if the injunction is not granted, If the case is decided against the party that has been enjoined, then the injunction will usually be made permanent. If the case is decided in favor of the party that has been enjoined, the injunction will usually be dissolved or dismissed.
Preliminary Injunction Law & Legal Definition. A preliminary injunction is a court order made in the early stages of a lawsuit or petition which prohibits the parties from doing an act in order to preserve the status quo until a pending ruling or outcome. A court is more likely to grant a preliminary injunction if a public interest can be shown. For example, in trademark infringement actions in which the health or safety of the consumer is at issue, there is a significant public interest and reason for the court to support the issuance of a preliminary injunction.
definition. An injunction is a court order requiring a person to do or cease doing a specific action. Temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctions are temporary injunctions
A preliminary injunction, in equity, is an injunction entered by a court prior to a final determination of the merits of a legal case, in order to restrain a party from going ahead with a course of conduct or compelling a party to continue with a course of conduct until the case has been decided. If the case is decided against the party that has been enjoined, then the injunction will usually be made permanent. If the case is decided in favor of the party that has been enjoined, the injunction will usually be dissolved or dismissed.
A plaintiff seeking a preliminary injunction must establish that he is likely to succeed on the merits, that he is likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of preliminary relief, that the balance of equities tips in his favor, and that an injunction is in the public interest.. If the case is decided against the party that has been enjoined, then the injunction will usually be made permanent. If the case is decided in favor of the party that has been enjoined, the injunction will usually be dissolved or dismissed.
Preliminary Injunction. A temporary order made by a court at the request of one party that prevents the other party from pursuing a particular course of conduct until the conclusion of a trial on the merits. A preliminary injunction is regarded as extraordinary relief. If a party has shown only a limited probability of success, but has raised substantial and difficult questions worthy of additional inquiry, a court will grant a preliminary injunction only if the harm to him or her outweighs the injury to others if the injunction is denied.
The purpose of a preliminary injunction is to keep the parties, while the suit is pending, as much as possible in the respective positions they occupied when the suit began and to preserve the court's ability to render a meaningful decision after a trial on the merits. A court is more likely to grant a preliminary injunction if a public interest can be shown. For example, in trademark infringement actions in which the health or safety of the consumer is at issue, there is a significant public interest and reason for the court to support the issuance of a preliminary injunction.
preliminary injunction. Granted before the commencement of a trial where the plaintiff can satisfy the court that he or she will suffer irreparable harm if the injunction is not immediately granted. Plaintiff is required to post security to protect the defendant from damage in case the injunction turns out to be erroneously granted.
A preliminary injunction should be granted only when the requesting party is highly likely to be successful in a trial on the merits and there is a substantial likelihood of irreparable harm unless the injunction is granted. If a party has shown only a limited probability of success, but has raised substantial and difficult questions worthy of additional inquiry, a court will grant a preliminary injunction only if the harm to him or her outweighs the injury to others if the injunction is denied.