Avoid grassy areas and mow your lawn so as not to have overgrown grass for chiggers to live. The determination of how long do chigger bites last depends on how quickly they are removed from the skin. Usually, chigger bites last for about a week to 3 weeks although sometimes they could linger for up to 4 months. Chiggers actually jump onto our skin, they crawl and look for a warm, moist and tight area in our body and there they themselves to a pore or follicle opening. The actual chigger bite does not hurt humans, it is the reaction we have after, and that reaction to the bite determines how long chigger bites last.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Chiggers live in wooded areas on the ground. Chiggers especially love pine forests are even a small patch of pines where the soil is very acidic. They love to 'nest' in below the pine needles on the ground
Chiggers live most commonly in grassy fields, forests, parks, gardens, as well as in areas that are moist, such as near rivers or lakes. The majority of chigger larvae that cause bites can be found on plants that are fairly close to the ground because they need a high-level of humidity in order to survive. Chiggers do not burrow in a person's skin; instead, they insert their mouthparts into a person's skin pore or hair follicle. The bites create small, red-colored welts on the person's skin that are accompanied by an intense itching similar that that experienced with poison sumac or poison ivy.
Trombiculidae (/trɒmbɨˈkjuːlɨdiː/ (also called berry bugs, harvest mites, red bugs, scrub-itch mites and aoutas) are a family of mites. The best known of the Trombiculidae are the chiggers. Chiggers attach to the host, pierce the skin, inject enzymes into the bite wound that digest cellular contents, and then suck up the digested tissue through a tube formed by hardened skin cells called a stylostome. They do not burrow into the skin or suck blood, as is commonly assumed.
If chiggers thrive where you live, your family lore is probably full of rules for how to avoid the tiny, biting bugs. Be careful where you sit -- stay off the ground, rock walls, decaying wood benches and fallen logs, especially if you're wearing shorts. Arachnid Image Gallery. If chiggers thrive where you live, your family lore is probably full of rules for how to avoid the tiny, biting bugs. Be careful where you sit -- stay off the ground, rock walls, decaying wood benches and fallen logs, especially if you're wearing shorts. Also, be careful where you walk.
Eggs are laid. Adult female chiggers will find a sheltered place to lay their eggs in the early spring, typically where vegetation is heavy and the area is damp. The ground temperature needs to be at least 60 degrees Fahrenheit on a regular basis in order for them to lay their eggs. They can lay up to 15 eggs per day. 
Once a chigger has started to inject digestive enzymes into a person's skin, often within one to three hours, the person begins to experience symptoms. The larvae of chiggers do not burrow into a person's skin; they also do not suck a person's blood. Chigger larvae pierce a person's skin and inject the person with a salivary secretion that contains powerful digestive enzymes. Chiggers do not burrow in a person's skin; instead, they insert their mouthparts into a person's skin pore or hair follicle. The bites create small, red-colored welts on the person's skin that are accompanied by an intense itching similar that that experienced with poison sumac or poison ivy.
Chiggers are the juvenile form (larvae) of a certain type of mite of the family Trombiculidae. Mites are arachnids (like spiders and ticks). Chiggers are found throughout the world. They most commonly live in forests, grassy fields, gardens, parks, and in moist areas around lakes or rivers. Most of the larvae that cause chigger bites are found on plants that are relatively close to the ground surface, because they require a high level of humidity for survival. Continue Reading. 