Before you talk to your loved one about treatment options, you need to approach him or her about the drug problem. It's important that you don't confront your loved one in a way that will cause an argument. It's common for those abusing drugs to get angry easily, so you need to approach the situation with care.
How to Talk to Someone Suffering from Addiction. Initially, attempt to talk with the addict in person. This approach can be less intimidating for him or her than staging an intervention with several people. Find a time when you can be alone with the addict and will be free of distractions or interruptions.
• Listen to person with the addiction at least as much as you talk. Whether they are a loved one or not, a person with an addiction is more likely to confide in you about what is really going on for them if you listen without interrupting or criticizing.
1 Be honest about your feelings, what you want to happen, and what the addiction has been like for you. 2  Do not blame, criticize or humiliate your loved one in counseling. 3  Simply say what it has been like for you. 4  Do not be surprised if your loved one says that things you are doing are contributing to their addiction.
If you think that someone you love is addicted to drugs, it's important to handle the situation carefully. Select any of the substances below to learn the best ways to find help when someone you love is struggling with addiction to that drug.
You cannot make your loved one stop using drugs or alcohol. But if you decide you want to talk with the person about his/her addiction and recovery options, make sure you do it in a way that enhances your chance of being heard. Here are some proven strategies and techniques that can help.
Before approaching an addict with the intention to help, it’s important to remember that, ultimately, no one but the addict is responsible for recovery. Typically, an addict must be ready and willing to stop and get help before the recovery process can even begin.