Granite crack vs fissure. Seeing as the my granite cracked post was just mentioned again, I thought I would ask (after reading it-again) about fissures versus cracks. We had Uba Tuba installed about a month ago. Since installation, there are some very fine fissure lines in one area
Like many natural materials, granite has some characteristics, which can concern homeowners. Some types of granite may be prone to cracks known as fissures, understanding what these are and how they will affect your granite installation will help you make a more informed decision about materials in your home. Some types of granite like Absolute Black, which is a classification of stone known as a gabbro, rarely develop fissures, because the material making up the stone is extremely dense. Some types of granite, however, containing the mineral serpentine are extremely prone to fissures.
Fissures are tiny edges in the composition of the minerals that your countertops are built of. Fissures are present in a good portion of the granite, marble, and travertine slabs that are available. They often help make up the artistic look of the slab you chose. Actual cracks will be different in composition than fissures. Cracks are not solid, so they will have an opening that debris can fall into. If you find cracks like the one shown below in your countertop, your granite company should be able to help you fill and hide them from view.
Granite sometimes has natural fissures as well, which may look like cracks, but are not structural defects and are a naturally occurring result of the immense heat and pressure which formed the granite eons ago. Yes granite has natural pits and fissures that are part of the stones natural structure. Some types of granite have more of such characteristics than other types, and can be minimized by applying sealer to the surface of the counter.
What Is a Fissure. Granite is an igneous rock, which means it was created from hot lava flow from a volcano. Fissures are thin, nonstructural cracks that occur during the formation process of the granite. When two separate streams of molten lava or magma intersect, they can leave behind a small separation between them. Some types of granite like Absolute Black, which is a classification of stone known as a gabbro, rarely develop fissures, because the material making up the stone is extremely dense. Some types of granite, however, containing the mineral serpentine are extremely prone to fissures.
The Difference Between Cracks and Fissures in Granite. When choosing a granite slab or perhaps admiring your newly installed countertops, you may notice intermittent lines in the stone. Do not panic! Some people assume that these are cracks and that the integrity of their countertops will be compromised, but in most cases there is nothing to worry about. The difference between a crack and a natural granite fissure is an important aspect of enjoying the natural beauty of granite. A fissure in a slab of granite is a natural cleft in the rock caused by God or “Nature”. When the stones form underground, a gap may develop in the material for any number of reasons, and this gap presents as a fissure when the slabs are mined from the ground
Fissures in Granite Countertops. Fissures in granite are incredibly common, especially in slabs with a large dramatic design. In the slab yard, with the slab sitting vertically, these fissures are present and yet not so easily recognized. In the excitement of choosing an exquisite slab it's easy to stand back and focus on the slab as a whole instead. Actual cracks will be different in composition than fissures. Cracks are not solid, so they will have an opening that debris can fall into. If you find cracks like the one shown below in your countertop, your granite company should be able to help you fill and hide them from view.
Granites Prone to Fissures. The term granite describes a group of stones with a specific amount of quartz in their makeup. Some types of granite like Absolute Black, which is a classification of stone known as a gabbro, rarely develop fissures, because the material making up the stone is extremely dense. Some types of granite, however, containing the mineral serpentine are extremely prone to fissures.
Guest_... What is the difference between a crack in a granite countertop and a fissure in the countertop? Surface disruption traverses from one edge across to the the other side of the island, I can find nothing similar to it on any of the rest of my counters. 
Granite Cracking, Fissures & BreakageGranite is repairable, but the repairs are easily seen. One seminar I attended at a surfaces show, advocated misleading the customer. 