DEFINITION of 'Tangible Asset'. Assets that have a physical form. Tangible assets include both fixed assets, such as machinery, buildings and land, and current assets, such as inventory. The opposite of a tangible asset is an intangible asset. Nonphysical assets, such as patents, trademarks, copyrights, goodwill and brand recognition, are all examples of intangible assets. Next Up
An asset is a resource controlled by the entity as a result of past events and from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the entity (Framework Par 49a). Employees are not considered assets like machinery is, even though they can generate future economic benefits. This is because an entity does not have sufficient control over its employees to satisfy the Framework's definition of an asset.
BREAKING DOWN 'Tangible Cost'. Tangible costs are often associated with items that also have related intangible costs. An intangible cost consists of a subjective value placed on a circumstance or event in an attempt to quantify its impact. For example, let's examine the costs associated with a customer who has received broken merchandise. The company will usually refund the value of the product to the customer, paying a tangible cost
Anything tangible or intangible that is capable of being owned or controlled to produce value and that is held to have positive economic value is considered an asset. Simply stated, assets represent value of ownership that can be converted into cash (although cash itself is also considered an asset). Employees are not considered assets like machinery is, even though they can generate future economic benefits. This is because an entity does not have sufficient control over its employees to satisfy the Framework's definition of an asset.
Full Definition of TANGIBLE. 1. a: capable of being perceived especially by the sense of touch: palpable b: substantially real: material. 2. 3. — tan·gi·bil·i·ty \ˌtan-jə-ˈbi-lə-tē\ noun. — tan·gi·ble·ness \ˈtan-jə-bəl-nəs\ noun. — tan·gi·bly \-blē\ adverb. See tangible defined for English-language learners. Examples of TANGIBLE. 1  In this agora, the price of what you buy and sell need bear no implacable relationship to any tangibles. 2  The nightly highlight packages confront old-timers with videotaped evidence that they didn't have the same tangibles as today's NBA players. 3  They were betting that inflation would drive prices much higher. [+] 4 more [-]hide.
DEFINITION of 'Tangible Cost'. A quantifiable cost related to an identifiable source or asset. Tangible costs represent expenses arising from such things as purchasing materials, paying employees or renting equipment. Next Up. An intangible cost consists of a subjective value placed on a circumstance or event in an attempt to quantify its impact. For example, let's examine the costs associated with a customer who has received broken merchandise.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An intangible good is a good that does not have a physical nature, as opposed to a physical good (an object). Digital goods such as downloadable music, mobile apps or virtual goods used in virtual economies are all examples of intangible goods
* The word tangible, in accounting, essentially means anything that can be touched or traded. Cash, buildings, accounts receivable, inventories and stock holdings of a business are all tangible assets. Trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and goodwill are not tangible assets, even though they may have value. The tangible common equity (TCE) ratio is a useful number to gauge leverage of a financial firm.
The following is a quotation from the IFRS Framework: An asset is a resource controlled by the enterprise as a result of past events and from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the enterprise.. Employees are not considered assets like machinery is, even though they can generate future economic benefits. This is because an entity does not have sufficient control over its employees to satisfy the Framework's definition of an asset.