Ranexa has also been prescribed off-label to treat atrial fibrillation, a rapid, irregular heart rate. It's believed that Ranexa works by inhibiting the excess sodium that can flow into the heart during an angina attack-sodium sets off an overload of calcium that causes the heart muscle to contract and stiffen.
1 Ranexa may affect the way other medicines work and other medicines may affect how Ranexa works. 2  Swallow Ranexa tablets whole. 3  Do not crush, break, or chew Ranexa tablets. 4  If you miss a dose of Ranexa, wait to take the next dose at your regular time. 1 If you miss a dose of Ranexa, wait to take the next dose at your regular time. 2  Do not take more than 1 dose at a time. 3  Limit the amount of grapefruit products you eat or drink. 4  Grapefruit can cause your blood levels of Ranexa to increase.
Ranexa is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with angina that keeps coming back (chronic angina). Ranexa may be used with other medicines that are used for heart problems and blood pressure control. 1 If you miss a dose of Ranexa, wait to take the next dose at your regular time. 2  Do not take more than 1 dose at a time. 3  Limit the amount of grapefruit products you eat or drink. 4  Grapefruit can cause your blood levels of Ranexa to increase.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Ranexa in 2006 as an add-on drug to be used with other anti-anginal medications that failed to work on their own, but in 2008, the FDA revised the drug's label to allow Ranexa to be taken by itself or with other anti-anginal drugs. It's believed that Ranexa works by inhibiting the excess sodium that can flow into the heart during an angina attack-sodium sets off an overload of calcium that causes the heart muscle to contract and stiffen.
What to expect with Ranexa. Ranexa is a prescription medicine used to treat adults with angina that keeps coming back (chronic angina). Ranexa may be used with other medicines that are used for heart problems and blood pressure control. Please see Important Safety Information about Ranexa. The CARISA study was a 12-week clinical trial of about 800 patients with chronic angina. 1 Ranexa may cause serious side effects, including. 2  changes in the electrical activity of your heart called QT prolongation. 3  Your doctor may do tests to check the electrical activity of your heart.
5 Reviews. Ranexa is the brand name of ranolazine, a prescription drug used to treat chronic angina-spasmodic attacks of intense chest pain that occur when there's an insufficient supply of blood to the heart. It's believed that Ranexa works by inhibiting the excess sodium that can flow into the heart during an angina attack-sodium sets off an overload of calcium that causes the heart muscle to contract and stiffen.
Indication. 1  Ranexa (ranolazine) is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. 2  Ranexa may be used with beta-blockers, nitrates, calcium channel blockers, anti-platelet therapy, lipid-lowering therapy, ACE inhibitors, and angiotensin receptor blockers. 1
Common side effects of Ranexa include dizziness; spinning sensation; nausea; vomiting; stomach pain; constipation; headache; dry mouth; weakness; ringing in your ears; swelling in hands, ankles, or feet; slow, fast, or irregular heartbeats; tremors; blood in the urine; and shortness of breath. Less serious side effects may include: 1  mild dizziness, spinning sensation, headache; 2  dry mouth; 3  mild nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, constipation; 4  weakness; or. 5  ringing in your ears.
Ranolazine, sold under the trade name Ranexa by Gilead Sciences, is a drug to treat angina that was first approved in 2006. 
2.2 Dose Modification Dose adjustments may be needed when RANEXA is taken in combination with certain other drugs [see Drug Interactions (7.1)] . Limit the maximum dose of RANEXA to 500 mg twice daily in patients on moderate CYP3A inhibitors such as diltiazem, verapamil, and erythromycin. Use of RANEXA with strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated [see Contraindications (4), Drug Interactions (7.1)].