Muscle energy techniques are used to treat somatic dysfunction, especially decreased range of motion, muscular hypertonicity, and pain. Injury can occur as a result of trauma, accidents, overuse, strain/sprain, etc., not all of which should be treated with muscle energy. These techniques are most appropriate for the following injury patterns: 1  Decreased range of motion secondary to muscular spasticity, rigidity, hypertonicity or hypotonicity.
Muscle Energy Technique is a form of massage therapy that utilizes the patient's muscle contractions and body positioning to normalize joint motion. It was originally developed by Dr. Fred Mitchell, a senior osteopathic physician, and his son Dr. Fred Mitchell, Jr. During a typical Muscle Energy Technique session, the patient is asked to contract a muscle in the affected area for approximately five seconds while overcoming a resistance to this contraction which is applied by the therapist. This set of contractions may be performed two to three times in a row
Muscle Energy Technique. Muscle energy technique (or MET) is based on the principle of reciprocal inhibition, a theory that explains that muscles on one side of a joint will always relax to accommodate the contraction of muscles on the other side of that joint when indirect pressure is applied. The muscle contraction is performed by the client 2 or 3 times in a row in the hopes to stretch the muscle further each time. Muscle Energy Technique is derived from Osteopathics (the study of the musculoskeletal system) by Dr. Fred Mitchell, Sr. and his son Dr. Fred Mitchell, Jr.
Muscle Energy Technique (MET). The Muscle Energy Technique was developed by Fred Mitchell, Sr., D.O., in the 1950’s as an osteopathic alternative to high velocity manipulation. It is basically a neuromuscular mobilization system for all motion segments of the body. 
The muscle energy technique may be used by people who have neck pain. Muscle energy technique therapy may offer relief for problems with the sciatic nerve, which can cause pain and numbness down the leg. The muscle energy technique is said to help reduce edema in a person's legs. Some chiropractors may use muscle energy technique in conjunction with traditional adjustments. The muscle energy technique may be useful for treating muscle pain.
MUSCLE ENERGY  Theory  Muscle energy technique is a manual therapy procedure which involves the voluntary contraction of a muscle in a precisely controlled direction at varying levels of intensity against a distinct counterforce applied by the operator. 
Developed by an osteopathic physician named Dr. Fred Mitchell, the muscle energy technique is a non-invasive method of manual therapy. It is said to help with relieving pain, fixing joint issues, reducing edema and improving a person's range of motion. The muscle energy technique is said to help reduce edema in a person's legs. Some chiropractors may use muscle energy technique in conjunction with traditional adjustments. The muscle energy technique may be useful for treating muscle pain.
Muscle Energy Technique (MET) is a manual therapy that uses the gentle muscle contractions of the client to relax and lengthen muscles and normalize joint motion. Post Isometric Relaxation (PIR) – Muscle to relax after an isometric contraction (Basis of MET). To define it specifically, it is “a direct manipulative procedure that uses a voluntary contraction of the patient’s muscles against a distinctly controlled counterforce from a precise position and in a specific direction”.
Muscle energy techniques are applied to a patient in order to lengthen shortened or spastic muscles, to improve weakened ligament and muscle strength, and to improve range of motion. The muscle contraction is performed by the client 2 or 3 times in a row in the hopes to stretch the muscle further each time. Muscle Energy Technique is derived from Osteopathics (the study of the musculoskeletal system) by Dr. Fred Mitchell, Sr. and his son Dr. Fred Mitchell, Jr.