Eastern box turtles can live for 100 years. It is more common for them to live 30-40 years in captivity, however. Aquatic turtles can live 50 of more years with proper care. If you can figure out exactly what kind of turtle you are getting, I can give you a more exact amount. HI! i had two of those once. they are called Painted turtles and they are water turtles. the average life span is 15 to 25 years maybe more maybe less it really depends on how good you are at takin care of them.
Answer: The lifespan of a turtle varies greatly depending on the species of turtle. For example, a typical pet turtle can live between 10-80 years or so while larger species can easily live over 100 years. According to the “Guinness Book of World Records”, sea turtles have the longest lifespan of up to 152 years.
Mark Moran. The Common Snapping Turtle is Virginia's largest turtle. It's carapace (top shell) will grow to 18 inches long, and they can weigh up to 45 pounds. Snapping turtles have a large head with a hooked jaw. Their colors are usually dull brown to black. 
Lifespan. Like their marine cousins, snapping turtles live long lives if they're undisturbed. Eggs incubate for three to four months, and babies emerge fully developed, but small at 5 to 10 inches long. They reach breeding age at 11 to 12 years, and can live anywhere from 50 to 100 years, with an average of 75 years.
The common snapping turtle is noted for its combative disposition when out of the water with its powerful beak-like jaws, and highly mobile head and neck (hence the specific name serpentina, meaning  snake-like). In water, they are likely to flee and hide themselves underwater in sediment. This species and the larger alligator snapping turtle are the only two species in this family found in North America (though the common snapping turtle, as its name implies, is much more widespread).
Like all turtles, snapping turtles have a shell that covers their back, also called a carapace. In snapping turtles the carapace is normally between 8 and 18 1/2 inches long. The shell color ranges from dark brown to tan and can even be black. As a snapping turtle grows, the shell often becomes covered with mud and algae. The tail has sharp ridges running along its length, and is nearly as long as the shell. 
the life span of a sea turtle is 52 years and over. Some turtles can live over hundreds of years if they are not at the bottom of the food chain   the life span of a … sea turtle is 52 years and over. Some turtles can live over hundreds of years if they are not at the bottom of the food chain.
Several species of turtles can live for several decades. With this longevity also comes a negative side. It takes several years for turtles to sexually mature (4 to 10 years for a Painted turtle, 14 to 20 years for a Blanding's or Wood turtle, and 15 years for a Snapping turtle). 
The common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) is a large freshwater turtle of the family Chelydridae. Its natural range extends from southeastern Canada, southwest to the edge of the Rocky Mountains, as far east as Nova Scotia and Florida. This species and the larger alligator snapping turtle are the only two species in this family found in North America (though the common snapping turtle, as its name implies, is much more widespread).
1 The incubation period lasts for 100 – 140 days. 2  The average lifespan of snapping turtles is about 80 – 120 years in the wild even though some are expected to live 200 years. 3  The age in captivity is 20 – 70 years. 