Spironolactone is used to treat high blood pressure and heart failure. Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Spironolactone is known as a water pill (potassium-sparing diuretic).
This medicine may also be used to treat fluid retention (edema) in patients with congestive heart failure, liver cirrhosis, or a kidney disorder called nephrotic syndrome. Spironolactone is a potassium-sparing diuretic (water pill). It prevents your body from absorbing too much salt and keeps your potassium levels from getting too low. This medicine is also used to treat or prevent hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood). Uses of This Medicine. Spironolactone is used in combination with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart failure. Lowering blood pressure can reduce the risk of strokes and heart attacks.
spironolactone. one of the spirolactones, a competitive antagonist of aldosterone and a potassium-sparing diuretic; used in treatment of edema, hypokalemia, primary aldosteronism, and (usually in combination with other drugs) hypertension. [spī′rənəlak′tōn]. a potassium-sparing aldosterone antagonist diuretic. indications It is prescribed in the treatment of primary hyperaldosteronism, edema of congestive heart failure, cirrhosis of the liver accompanied by edema, nephrotic syndrome, essential hypertension, and hypokalemia.
This medicine may also be used to treat fluid retention (edema) in patients with congestive heart failure, liver cirrhosis, or a kidney disorder called nephrotic syndrome. Spironolactone is a potassium-sparing diuretic (water pill). It prevents your body from absorbing too much salt and keeps your potassium levels from getting too low. This medicine is also used to treat or prevent hypokalemia (low potassium levels in the blood). Spironolactone is used in combination with other medicines to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and heart failure. Lowering blood pressure can reduce the risk of strokes and heart attacks.
Aldactone (spironolactone) is an aldosterone receptor antagonist that causes the kidneys to remove water and sodium from the body, with reduced losses of potassium. Aldactone is used to reduce edema caused by heart, liver or kidney problems, hypertension, and certain patients with hyperaldosteronism. 
23 Reviews. Spironolactone is the generic form of the brand-name drug Aldactone, a prescription diuretic drug. The drug is used to treat a condition called primary hyperaldosteronism, in which the body produces excess amounts of the hormone aldosterone, which regulates your body’s sodium and water levels. Spironolactone helps restore a healthy balance of sodium and potassium in your body. It’s also used to treat:
Spironolactone, also known by the trade name Aldactone, is a synthetic, steroidal antimineralcorticoid agent with two primary uses. One is as a diuretic for those with heart failure. It is also used as an antiandrogen in hormone replacement therapy as spironolactone is an inhibitor of androgen production. 
This medication is also used to treat low potassium levels and conditions in which the body is making too much of a natural chemical (aldosterone). Spironolactone is known as a water pill (potassium-sparing diuretic). OTHER USES: This section contains uses of this drug that are not listed in the approved professional labeling for the drug but that may be prescribed by your health care professional