You will be redirected to the list of booked tickets. Click on ‘Get SMS’, you will get the SMS again on the number given while booking the e-ticket. You will get the following message displaying your mobile number and PNR number. Also, there is an option to enter the mobile number while booking for tickets, if you are booking for tickets on someone’s behalf give their mobile number so that they can receive SMS directly.
You need to register with IRCTC to get a IRCTC login and password. You can register through IRCTCmobile (This may not be available on all mobile handsets) or by visiting www.services.irctc.co.in. By default the mobile will have Guest Login and password for IRCTC.
Once you enter your mobile number in the IRCTC web page, you will be automatically registered, post which you can download and install IRCTCmobile on your java-enabled mobile phone. You can start booking railway tickets through your IRCTCmobile and pay through the credit card/ cash card. Top. 03.
IRCTC online user, who wants to get IRCTC SMS again for any e-ticket booked, have to follow these easy steps 1  : Log in to your IRCTC online account. 2  Click on plus (+) of “ My Transaction ” link from the left tab. 3  For this, you will be prompted to enter your IRCTC password once again.
RE: wrong mobile no typed. Sorry .. if you've typed it wrong then IRCTC will not allow you to sent SMS to another number. Also you can only send SMS yourself 5 times from IRCTC for a given PNR. So the solution is: Make yourself SMS ticket in 5 minutes!
This way an IRCTC user can easily gets IRCTC ticket confirmation SMS once more. By now you have known how to get ticket re-SMS from IRCTC. Hence, you don’t have to worry if the ticket confirmation SMS is undelivered at the time of e-ticket booking or somehow IRCTC SMS is mistakenly deleted from your cell-phone. You can re-receive IRCTC SMS to your mobile using the easy steps described above to re-get 
Once you enter your mobile number in the IRCTC web page, you will be automatically registered, post which you can download and install IRCTCmobile on your java-enabled mobile phone. You can start booking railway tickets through your IRCTCmobile and pay through the credit card/ cash card.
1 Now, select your particular ticket for which you want to get “ IRCTC confirmation SMS again 2  ”. Finally click on “ Get SMS ” button (situated in the most right). 3  You are done now; you will soon get the IRCTC confirmation SMS again to your mobile number.