Using retinoids means dealing with the side effects, but if you use retinoids the right way and take the proper precautions, many of these side effects can be minimized. If retinoids agree with your skin, you will find that the short term side effects are worth the long term benefits. Solution: The key to minimizing this kind of side effect from using retinoids is to use the retinoids slowly. Use a small amount, infrequently, until your skin builds up tolerance. You might even want to use a weaker type of retinoid to get your skin acclimated to the treatment before using something stronger.
The commonly used retinoids have many of the side effects of vitamin A including dry skin, cheilosis and nosebleeds and hair loss, but are not stored in the liver and do not cause the typical form of chronic liver disease associated with excessive vitamin A intake. Retinoids are both natural and synthetic derivatives of vitamin A, several of which have been developed for medical uses, largely to replace vitamin A which in high, therapeutic doses is associated with considerable toxicity.
Other experts are equally enthusiastic. Susan Weinkle, a dermatologist in Bradenton, Florida, calls retinoids skin care’s heavy lifters. “I tell patients that regardless of how much time or money they have, sunscreen and a retinoid are the most important anti-agers to use,” she says. (Between 2007 and 2010, product launches nearly doubled.) What is surprising is the active ingredient that’s touted in the vast majority of these potions: good old retinoids. This class of vitamin A derivatives has been used in skin care since the ’70s.
Retinoids. Retinoids are widely used to treat acne and prevent aging. They are available both over-the-counter and via prescription, though stronger retinoids usually require a dermatologist's (or general doctor's) approval. Many people get confused by the many different types of retinoids out there and find them to be irritating for their skin. However, with proper use, retinoids are actually really great skin care products!
Topical retinoids have been used, with varying degrees of success. The synergistic combination of topical tretinoin 0.05% at bedtime and 12% ammonium lactate (Lac-Hydrin ®) lotion twice daily has shown a 85% to 95% improvement of AN presenting on the neck, associated with obesity (Blobstein, 2003). In view of their unique mechanism of action, topical retinoids are prescribed widely in dermatology for both indicated purposes and several worthwhile, evidence-based off-label uses. For seasoned clinicians, prescribing medications off label can be efficacious and even practical.
Retinoids for Acne. If you have moderate to severe acne that hasn't gotten better with other treatments, a retinoid may help. When spread on the skin, retinoids can unclog pores, allowing other medicated creams and gels to work better. They also reduce acne outbreaks by preventing dead cells from clogging pores. By clearing acne and reducing outbreaks, they may also reduce the formation of acne scars. Retinoid pills treat oil production, bacteria that cause acne, and inflammation. How to use: Smooth a retinoid cream over the skin once a day 20 to 30 minutes after washing your face. What else you need to know: When you first use retinoids, you may notice redness, peeling of your skin, or worsening of your acne. You can minimize this by using the product every other day until your body gets used to it
The retinoids are a class of chemical compounds that are vitamers of vitamin A or are chemically related to it. Retinoids are used in medicine, primarily due to the way they regulate epithelial cell growth. There are three generations of retinoids: 1  First generation retinoids: which include retinol, retinal, tretinoin (retinoic acid, Retin-A), isotretinoin, and alitretinoin. 2  Second generation retinoids: which include etretinate and its metabolite acitretin. 3  Third generation retinoids: which include tazarotene, bexarotene and Adapalene.
Chemopreventative treatment with retinoids has been studied for patients with oropharyngeal carcinoma. The mechanism of action of vitamin A modulates growth and differentiation of cells, and vitamin A deficiency enhances susceptibility to carcinogenesis. Side effects of topical use have been minimal. In view of their unique mechanism of action, topical retinoids are prescribed widely in dermatology for both indicated purposes and several worthwhile, evidence-based off-label uses. For seasoned clinicians, prescribing medications off label can be efficacious and even practical.