When to Expect Teething to Begin. Most babies' teeth begin to erupt between the ages of 4 to 6 months, though for some it may be earlier or later, Dr. Josen says. And no matter what Grandma says, when your child's first tooth pops in, it has nothing to do with smarts.
Infant development experts say that teething usually starts when your baby is around four months old, and continues until he or she is about two years old, at which time you get a reprieve until about five years old when the baby teeth start being replaced by grown-up teeth.
On average, all of a child's teeth have come in by 30 months of age. However, there is variability in the timing and sequence of tooth eruption based on a number of factors, including gender and ethnicity.
The following chart shows when your child's primary teeth (also called baby teeth or deciduous teeth) should erupt and shed. Eruption times vary from child to child. As seen from the chart, the first teeth begin to break through the gums at about 6 months of age.
Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first. Upper front teeth usually come in 1 to 2 months after the lower front teeth.
While you were pregnant, your baby developed tooth buds, the foundation for baby teeth (also called milk teeth). Very rarely, a baby is born with a tooth or two, or grows a tooth in the first few weeks of life. But the vast majority of babies sprout their first tooth sometime between 4 and 7 months old.
The age the baby cuts his or her first tooth depends on family history of teething and nothing more, says Jill Lasky, D.D.S., a pediatric dentist at Lasky Pediatric Dental Group in Los Angeles. So, if you got your teeth early, your child probably will too.
The vast majority of babies sprout their first tooth when they're between 4 and 7 months old. An early developer may get his first white cap as early as 3 months, while a late bloomer may have to wait until he's a year old or more.