In biology, a pathogen (Greek: πάθος pathos “suffering, passion” and -γενής -genēs “producer of”) in the oldest and broadest sense is anything that can produce disease, a term which came into use in the 1880s. The host may be an animal, a plant, a fungus, or even another microorganism. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen.
Typically the term is used to describe an infectious agent such as a virus, bacterium, prion, fungus, viroid, or parasite that causes disease in its host. The host may be an animal, a plant, a fungus, or even another microorganism. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen. Diseases caused by organisms in humans are known as pathogenic diseases
Infectious diseases are caused by pathogens, which include bacteria, fungi, protozoa, worms, viruses, and even infectious proteins called prions. Pathogens of all classes must have mechanisms for entering their host and for evading immediate destruction by the host immune system. Even within each class of pathogen, there is striking diversity. Viruses vary tremendously in their size, shape, and content (DNA versus RNA, enveloped or not, and so on), and the same is true for the other pathogens.
Pathogen. Definition. noun, plural: pathogens. An agent causing disease or illness to its host, such as an organism or infectious particle capable of producing a disease in another organism. Supplement. Pathogens are mostly microscopic, such as bacteria, viruses, protozoa, and fungi, thriving in various places such as air, dust, surfaces, soil, etc. Not all bacteria are pathogens, in fact most of them are harmless and only a few are pathogenic. Examples of pathogenic bacteria are Mycobacterium tuberculosis (causing tuberculosis), Streptococcus penumoniae (causing pneumonia), Shigella, Campylobacter and Salmonella (causing foodborne illnesses).
Bloodborne pathogens are infectious microorganisms in human blood that can cause disease in humans. These pathogens include, but are not limited to, hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Needlesticks and other sharps-related injuries may expose workers to bloodborne pathogens. 
pathogen-any disease-producing agent (especially a virus or bacterium or other microorganism). microorganism, micro-organism-any organism of microscopic size. infectious agent, infective agent-an agent capable of producing infection. Translations. 1. pathogen-any disease-producing agent (especially a virus or bacterium or other microorganism). microorganism, micro-organism-any organism of microscopic size. infectious agent, infective agent-an agent capable of producing infection. Translations. [ˈpaeθəʊdʒen] ˈpæθəʊdʒen → n patogeno. patógeno m
pathogen. any disease-producing agent or microorganism. pathogen risk factors. risk factors dependent on the characteristics of the pathogen, e.g. virulence or persistence in the environment of a bacterium or virus. 1  Facebook. Tracing pathogens in th food Chain by Fratamico; McMeekin, Tom A. / Food Trade Review. Federal and state officials have found the implicated bacterial strain in cow feces, water, and wild pigs at sites near the four suspected spinach farms in California, but they still don't know how the. got to the greens.
any disease-producing agent or microorganism. pathogen risk factors. risk factors dependent on the characteristics of the pathogen, e.g. virulence or persistence in the environment of a bacterium or virus. Tracing pathogens in th food Chain by Fratamico; McMeekin, Tom A. / Food Trade Review. Federal and state officials have found the implicated bacterial strain in cow feces, water, and wild pigs at sites near the four suspected spinach farms in California, but they still don't know how the. got to the greens.
Full Definition of PATHOGEN. : a specific causative agent (as a bacterium or virus) of disease. See pathogen defined for English-language learners. See pathogen defined for kids. 