1 Your body makes hCG after implantation occurs. 2  In up to 10% of women, implantation does not occur until after the first day of a missed period. 3  This means home pregnancy tests can be accurate as soon as 1 day after a missed period for some women but not for others. 4  The brand of test. If you think you may be pregnant, taking a pregnancy test as soon as the first day of your missed period can help you get the care and support you need. A home pregnancy test can tell whether you are pregnant with almost 99% accuracy, depending on how you use it.
If you have regular periods, you’ll probably know when this is. If you’re not sure when your next period is due, you can do a pregnancy test 21 days (three weeks) after you last had unprotected sex. See Further information below for links to more about how your menstrual cycle works. Some very sensitive tests can be used even before you miss a period
Plus doctors can also give a pelvic examination. Home pregnancy tests, if done correctly, can be 99% accurate. However, many women test too early in their cycles, not giving enough time for hCG to build up in her system. It’s best to take the test after you have missed a period, or 14 days after ovulation. Testing any earlier can give you negative results. 
A positive test result is almost certainly correct. If you do a pregnancy test on the first day of your missed period, and it’s positive, it’s probably about two weeks since you conceived. You can use the pregnancy due date calculator to work out when your baby is due. A negative result is less reliable. If you’re not sure when your next period is due, you can do a pregnancy test 21 days (three weeks) after you last had unprotected sex. See Further information below for links to more about how your menstrual cycle works.
1 This means home pregnancy tests can be accurate as soon as 1 day after a missed period for some women but not for others. 2  The brand of test. 3  Some home pregnancy tests are more sensitive than others. 4  For that reason, some tests are better than others at detecting hCG early on. If you think you may be pregnant, taking a pregnancy test as soon as the first day of your missed period can help you get the care and support you need. A home pregnancy test can tell whether you are pregnant with almost 99% accuracy, depending on how you use it.
The majority of the pregnancy tests on the market today are able to detect an hCG range between 20 mIU and 50 mIU. The hCG in your urine, if you are pregnant, will typically be 25 mIU around 4 days prior to your period start date, which is roughly 11 days after your positive ovulation test. However, this is all dependent on when your fertilized egg actually implanted. Most women who are trying to get pregnant know that as soon as they have had a positive ovulation test they will need to have intercourse within 24 hours in order to increase their chances of becoming pregnant.
Doctors often order these tests to confirm pregnancy as early as 10 days after a missed period. However, some of these tests can detect hCG much earlier. A quantitative hCG test (beta hCG) measures the exact amount of hCG in your blood. It can find even very low levels of hCG. These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test. Two types of blood pregnancy tests are available: A qualitative hCG test simply checks to see if hCG is present
Yes | No Thank you! 10 days after possible conception date is too early. Usually it is best to test about a week after your missed period. Some women test before their missed period but you are more likely to get false negative because there isn't enough hormone in your system for the test to pick up on it. Wait a little and test again. I found out 8 days after conception. First responce early pregancy test tells you 6 days before you miss your period. So typical 14-6 days=8! :) I concieved on Friday October 23rd.