Timpani Details. The round head of a timpani can vibrate in a large number of vibrational modes. The fundamental is not generally used in music; it is highly damped and does not produce as pleasing a sound as some other modes.
1. timpani-a large hemispherical brass or copper percussion instrument with a drumhead that can be tuned by adjusting the tension on it. kettledrum, tympani, tympanum, kettle. percussion instrument, percussive instrument-a musical instrument in which the sound is produced by one object striking another. timpani. pl n. 1. (Instruments) (sometimes functioning as singular) a set of kettledrums, two or more in number.
By far, the most common type of timpani used today is the pedal timpani, which allows the tension of the head to be adjusted using a pedal mechanism. Typically, the pedal is connected to the tension screws via an assembly of either cast metal or metal rods called the spider. Throughout the 19th century and much of the 20th, there were few new timpani concertos. In 1983, William Kraft, principal timpanist of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, composed his Concerto for Timpani and Orchestra, which won second prize in the Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards.
Description. With a name that means, the hitting of one body against another, instruments in the percussion family are played by being struck, shaken, or scraped. In the orchestra, the percussion section provides a variety of rhythms, textures and tone colors. Percussion instruments are classified as tuned or untuned. When struck with felt-tipped wooden sticks, or mallets, timpani produce a specific pitch that is determined by the drum's size. That pitch is fine-tuned by tightening the drumhead with keys and foot pedals. Most orchestras use three or four timpani of varying sizes.
Full Definition of TIMPANI. : a set of two or more kettledrums played by one performer in an orchestra or band. 
The timpani has a round head stretched over a sealed enclosure. The tension may be altered by means of a footpedal which actuates tensioning elements. The choice of striking point emphasizes the preferred modes of the circular membrane. The round head of a timpani can vibrate in a large number of vibrational modes. The fundamental is not generally used in music; it is highly damped and does not produce as pleasing a sound as some other modes.
The percussion section of an orchestra most commonly contains instruments such as timpani, snare drum, bass drum, cymbals, triangle and tambourine. However, the section can also contain non-percussive instruments, such as whistles and sirens, or a blown conch shell. Percussion is commonly referred to as the backbone or the heartbeat of a musical ensemble, often working in close collaboration with bass instruments, when present. In jazz and other popular music ensembles, the pianist, bassist, drummer and sometimes the guitarist are referred to as the rhythm section.
Timpani is an Italian plural, the singular of which is timpano. However, in informal English speech a single instrument is rarely called a timpano: several are more typically referred to collectively as kettledrums, timpani, temple drums, or simply timps. Throughout the 19th century and much of the 20th, there were few new timpani concertos. In 1983, William Kraft, principal timpanist of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, composed his Concerto for Timpani and Orchestra, which won second prize in the Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards.
Some timpani are equipped with tuning gauges, which provide a visual indication of the drum's pitch. They are physically connected either to the counterhoop, in which case the gauge indicates how far the counterhoop is pushed down, or the pedal, in which case the gauge indicates the position of the pedal. Throughout the 19th century and much of the 20th, there were few new timpani concertos. In 1983, William Kraft, principal timpanist of the Los Angeles Philharmonic, composed his Concerto for Timpani and Orchestra, which won second prize in the Kennedy Center Friedheim Awards.
percussion. auscultatory percussion auscultation of the sound produced by percussion. immediate percussion that in which the blow is struck directly against the body surface. mediate percussion that in which a pleximeter is used. [ per-kush´un ]. 1. in physical examination, striking a part of the body with short, sharp blows of the fingers in order to determine the size, position, and density of the underlying parts by the sound obtained. Percussion is most commonly used on the chest and back for examination of the heart and lungs.