Our skin is made mainly of collagen, which is a protein. More than 80% (dry weight) of our skin is made of collagen. There are three major parts to our skin: collagen, elastin, GAGs, Glycosaminoglycans. Collagen is a main structural protein found throughout our body.
Collagen is the fibrous protein constituent of skin, cartilage, bone, and other connective tissue. Collagen is the principal constituent of the fiber-network layer of our skin. More than a third of the body's protein is collagen, and it can account for an even higher percentage in particular parts of the body. Collagen makes up 70% of our skin tissue.
Collagen is created by fibroblasts, which are specialized skin cells located in the dermis. Fibroblasts also produce other skin structural proteins such as elastin (a protein which gives the skin its ability to snap back) and glucosaminoglycans (GAGs). GAGs make up the ground substance that keeps the dermis hydrated.
1 Collagen is most commonly found within the body in the skin, bones and connective tissues. 2  The word collagen is derived from the Greek kolla, meaning glue. 3  Collagen gives the skin its strength and structure, and also plays a role in the replacement of dead skin cells.
Collagen is a major structural protein in the skin. It plays a key role in providing the structural scaffolding for cells, tissues, and organs. If it weren't for collagen, the body would literally fall apart.
Collagen is a part of the connective tissue that in the skin helps in firmness, suppleness and constant renewal of skin cells. Collagen is vital for skin elasticity. Ligaments are another type of connective tissue that attach two bones and consequently hold the joints together.
Collagen is a key part of your skin's structure. It forms a network of fibers within your skin that acts like a framework. In young skin, the collagen framework is intact and the skin remains moisturized and elastic. Over time, the support structure weakens and the skin loses its elasticity.
Collagen is the most abundant protein in the body and is a key constituent of all connective tissues. Collagen provides the infrastructure of the musculoskeletal system, essential for mobility. The intake of collagen ensures the cohesion, elasticity and regeneration of skin, hair, tendon, cartilage, bones and joints.