As had been rumored, Warner Bros. cast a more mature actor to play Batman in Snyder's film: Affleck is 11 years older than Man of Steel star Henry Cavill, who will return to play Superman in the sequel. In an ironic twist, Affleck played George Reeves, a former Superman, in the 2006 film Hollywoodland.. 
Based on the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the second part of Nolan's Batman film series and a sequel to 2005's Batman Begins, starring Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Heath Ledger, Gary Oldman, Aaron Eckhart, Maggie Gylenhaal and Morgan Freeman. The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong. Nolan used IMAX 70 mm film cameras to film some sequences, including the Joker's first appearance in the film.
For the cast of the television series, see List of Batman television series cast members. ( 1 a) indicates a character's appearance is only archive footage used in a previous film. 
―Excerpt from end of the film's novelization. Batman is an American Academy Award-winning superhero film based on the DC Comics character Batman created by Bob Kane and Bill Finger. It is the first entry of the Batman film franchise, directed by Tim Burton and the first to star Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne/Batman. It also starred Jack Nicholson as The Joker. Tim Burton said that he chose Michael Keaton as Bruce Wayne/Batman because he thought he could play a dark, tortured Batman and a serious Bruce Wayne. Some people thought that Keaton wasn't built enough for the role of Batman and that he couldn't play a serious role because of his comedic roles in the past.
Remember when Heath Ledger was first cast as Batman's arch-nemesis the Joker for Christopher Nolan's 2008 The Dark Knight sequel? Warner Bros. 
5. In 2005 before he was cast as The Joker, before even Christian Bale was cast as Batman, the late actor Heath Ledger was one of Warner Bros.’ top prospects to play Bruce Wayne for Christopher Nolan’s then-upcoming film Batman Begins. Ledger was amongst a group of young actors that included Cillian Murphy, Joshua Jackson, Jake Gyllenhaal, and Billy Crudup who were vying for the role, that ultimately went to Bale, who had himself already been in talks to play Bruce Wayne for Darren Aronofsky’s failed Batman: Year One film.
Batman: The Animated Series is an American animated television series based on the DC Comics superhero Batman. It was developed by Bruce Timm and Eric Radomski. Produced by Warner Bros. Animation, it originally aired on the Fox Network from September 5, 1992 to September 15, 1995 with a total of 85 episodes. Notably, Kevin Conroy was the first to use two distinct voices to portray two characters in animation (Bruce Wayne and Batman), a tactic used previously by Michael Keaton in Tim Burton 's live-action films.
Nolan's inspiration for the film was the Joker's comic book debut in 1940, the 1988 graphic novel The Killing Joke, and the 1996 series The Long Halloween, which retold Two-Face 's origin. The nickname the Dark Knight was first applied to Batman in Batman #1 (1940), in a story written by Bill Finger. The Dark Knight was filmed primarily in Chicago, as well as in several other locations in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong. Nolan used IMAX 70 mm film cameras to film some sequences, including the Joker's first appearance in the film.
Eric Stoltz (Mask, Pulp Fiction) was originally cast as Marty McFly in 1985's Back to the Future, but he was replaced after five weeks of filming. I was cast, I was paid and everything, Wayans told Gawker Media's io9. But there was too many characters, he said, so Wayans (and the Boy Wonder) were put on hold for the third installment. Then, when Tim Burton didn't end up making another Batman, Wayans was out for good.