1. Fertilize daffodils when the soil needs additional nutrients. Once planted, daffodils usually flower again every year without too much assistance from you. However, because they stay in the ground for a long time, the surrounding soil can become depleted as the plants use up the local nutrients. A slow release balanced fertilizer, or one higher in phosphorus and potash (also called potassium) than nitrogen, works well for daffodils. ‘ 1 Balanced’ means these three main ingredients are in similar proportions. 2  The cheapest option is usually blood, fish and bone fertilizer but take care—it can be very smelly!
2. Feed your daffodils a granular slow-release 10-10-20 or 5-10-12 bulb fertilizer in the fall. Apply it to the surface of the soil according to the manufacturer’s recommendations, keeping the fertilizer off the daffodil’s foliage and roots to prevent chemical burns. Daffodils aren’t heavy feeders, so they don’t require a lot of fertilizer. This is a happy coincidence for many who love growing these cheerful beauties. Light fertilization will produce healthier, happier daffies that will reward you with larger and more abundant blooms.
1. Choose low-nitrogen fertilizers for your daffodils. Excessive levels of nitrogen promote lush foliage growth and reduce bloom numbers -- and may prevent flowering altogether. These plants prefer higher proportions of phosphorus and potassium, also known as potash. Daffodils aren’t heavy feeders, so they don’t require a lot of fertilizer. This is a happy coincidence for many who love growing these cheerful beauties. Light fertilization will produce healthier, happier daffies that will reward you with larger and more abundant blooms.
1. Incorporate fertilizer 6 to 8 inches deep into the soil bed when planting daffodils. Use a low-nitrogen granular fertilizer using the amount listed on the product label. If you use a 8-8-8 or 8-24-24 fertilizer, for example, work in 1/2 pound of fertilizer per 50 square feet of space. Feed daffodils while blooming or just after they finish blooming in the spring. This time, use a granular fertilizer that does not contain nitrogen, such as one labeled 0-10-10 or 0-0-50.
Feeding bulbs at planting gives them a good start for their spring debut. Use a bulb food or bone meal and work it into the soil a couple of inches at the bottom of the hole you dug for installation. Mix it in well and then plant the bulb. Mature daffodils respond well to early spring fertilizer.
A. Daffodils and other bulbs put on significant root growth in the fall, so it is a good to time fertilize them. Root development continues until soil temperatures fall below 40 degrees and then resumes in the spring as soil temperatures warm. Established Bulbs. For established bulbs, rake back the mulch and broadcast a granular fertilizer across the soil surface. Replace the mulch to protect the soil surface from erosion and nutrient loss to runoff.
Fertilize your daffodils again in early spring when the new foliage begins to emerge from the soil. Apply a water-soluble 5-10-10 bulb fertilizer according to the packaging instructions. Water-soluble preparations offer rapid release of nutrients the plants need for successful blooming. Daffodils aren’t heavy feeders, so they don’t require a lot of fertilizer. This is a happy coincidence for many who love growing these cheerful beauties. Light fertilization will produce healthier, happier daffies that will reward you with larger and more abundant blooms.
What Kind of Fertilizer to Use. Daffodils prefer a fertilizer that is low in nitrogen and higher in phosphorous and potassium (potash). A high-nitrogen fertilizer will prevent the daffodil from blooming. An ideal nitrogen-phosphorous-potassium ratio for use in the spring is 5-10-10. The best times to fertilize daffodils are once in the fall and once again in the spring. In the fall, you should fertilize before the first hard frost with a slow-release fertilizer. This will nourish the roots during their autumn period of rapid growth, and will preserve the bulb during the winter months.
Choose the right kind of fertilizer for your daffodils. A slow release balanced fertilizer, or one higher in phosphorus and potash (also called potassium) than nitrogen, works well for daffodils. ‘ 1 Balanced’ means these three main ingredients are in similar proportions. 2  The cheapest option is usually blood, fish and bone fertilizer but take care—it can be very smelly!