In some cases, underlayment doesn't make a difference. If you're laying laminate on a smooth wood subfloor, the inclusion of underlayment doesn't make the floor warmer or quieter. If anything, underlayment gives laminate--in my personal opinion--a mushy, swishy laminate floor feeling. It's a feeling that real solid wood flooring does not have. Finally, sub-floor imperfections may telegraph to the surface of your laminate. Laminate underlayment will: 1  Provide your floor a bit more thermal insulation. 2  Bridge minor gaps that subfloors or existing floors have. 3  Absorb sound. 4  Make it easier for you to walk because it's softer.
When your base floor is anything less than perfect (minor gaps and seams), underlayment is needed to help smooth out those areas for the laminate. When you're installing on top of concrete, you'll want the extra padding that underlayment provides to make it softer to walk on. When You Do Want Underlayment. I'm not trying to kill off the entire underlayment industry. In fact, underlayment is good and is recommended in a majority of the installations. One reason is because laminate flooring is so flimsy and insubstantial that it needs all the help it can get.
Some laminate flooring, such as Pergo Accolade and DuPont RealTouch, have the underlayment already attached to the bottom of the floor. So, not only is it unnecessary to add extra laminate underlay, it is not advised. Otherwise, you will end up with a floor that is too squishy and does not wear well. Finally, sub-floor imperfections may telegraph to the surface of your laminate. Laminate underlayment will: 1  Provide your floor a bit more thermal insulation. 2  Bridge minor gaps that subfloors or existing floors have. 3  Absorb sound. 4  Make it easier for you to walk because it's softer.
Vinyl-Backed Underlay. Vinyl backed underlay is a practical option for laminate flooring installations because it comes in an easy-to-install tile form. It lays flat during installation and provides noise-proofing qualities. The seams must be sealed, though, if moisture-proofing is a priorit
If you are installing over a wooden floor, you do not need to tape the seams or add 2” of underlay up the wall. In order to avoid damaging the underlay, only set up as much as you need to install a section of laminate flooring planks. Work section-by-section on your installation in order to protect the underlay and the laminate. Before installing your laminate flooring, check ALL planks for defects or damage. Ideally, you should do this shortly after arrival so that you can notify the supplier of any issues and get them replaced, if need be.
Underlayments play an important role during the installation of new hardwood flooring or laminate flooring. Whether you intend to staple down, nail down or float, an underlayment offers a slew of benefits during and after installation. 
1 You've probably walked from one surface (say, tile) to laminate with underlayment. 2  It's a singular feeling, and you know immediately that you're on laminate. 3  I think that laminate flooring without underlayment more closely approximates the feeling of real wood flooring, but only when your base layer is wood. When You Do Want Underlayment. I'm not trying to kill off the entire underlayment industry. In fact, underlayment is good and is recommended in a majority of the installations. One reason is because laminate flooring is so flimsy and insubstantial that it needs all the help it can get.
So as mentioned above, the underlay you should use for a laminate floor will depend on the type of sub-floor – if it’s concrete then you will likely need an underlay with a moisture barrier or will need to install a separate barrier. Laminate flooring underlay. Most underlay products will be suitable to use when installing a laminate floor, as laminate floors are generally fitted as a ‘floating floor’ – whereby the flooring is fitted into place by clicking together without the need to glue it down or glue the joints.
You will need moisture-proof underlayment when there is any chance of moisture migrating upward: concrete slab, tile, cement board, and even wood sub-floor or flooring over a crawlspace or other non climate-controlled space. Tip: Underlayment and vapor barrier are not always the same thing. When You Do Want Underlayment. I'm not trying to kill off the entire underlayment industry. In fact, underlayment is good and is recommended in a majority of the installations. One reason is because laminate flooring is so flimsy and insubstantial that it needs all the help it can get.
Laying laminate flooring. If you are installing your floor over concrete, where earth is directly beneath the concrete, you will need to also install a vapor barrier between the concrete and the laminates to accommodate moisture. Laminate flooring must be laid on an underlayment. There are a number of different types of underlay. Work section-by-section on your installation in order to protect the underlay and the laminate. Before installing your laminate flooring, check ALL planks for defects or damage. Ideally, you should do this shortly after arrival so that you can notify the supplier of any issues and get them replaced, if need be.