The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include: You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
Swollen lymph nodes that are softer, tender, and move easily are usually a sign of infection or inflammation. A hard lymph node that does not move and does not cause pain needs further evaluation by your health care provider. 
Swollen lymph glands are referred to as lymphadenopathy. Inflammation of a lymph node is referred to as lymphadenitis. Symptoms of swollen lymph nodes include. 1  localized pain, 2  swelling, 3  tenderness, 4  warmth in the involved area. 
Viral infections that cause swollen neck lymph nodes can often be treated with self-care measures at home and the swelling will go away as your body fights off the infection. Self-care measures include rest, drinking plenty of fluids, warm compresses, and over-the-counter pain relievers. The more common infectious causes of swollen neck lymph nodes include viral and bacterial infections. Left untreated, some of these diseases can lead to serious complications and secondary illnesses. Infections that commonly cause swollen neck lymph nodes include:
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes in the neck is a viral infection such as the common cold. Bacterial infections that can cause swollen neck lymph nodes include an infected tooth and strep throat. Immune system disorders and some types of cancer can also lead to swollen neck lymph nodes. The more common infectious causes of swollen neck lymph nodes include viral and bacterial infections. Left untreated, some of these diseases can lead to serious complications and secondary illnesses. Infections that commonly cause swollen neck lymph nodes include:
Swollen lymph nodes that are soft, tender and move easily are usually a sign of infection or inflammation. A hard lymph node that does not move and does not cause pain needs prompt evaluation by your doctor. The most common causes of swollen glands include: 1  Bacterial infection, such as a sore throat. 2  Mouth sores or tooth infection. 3  Viral infection, such as glandular fever. 4  Skin
Lymph nodes become swollen in response to illness, infection, or stress. Swollen lymph nodes are one sign that your lymphatic system is working to rid your body of the responsible agents. Swollen lymph glands in the head and neck are normally caused by illnesses such as: 1  ear infection. 
Search Now. Find an Infectious Disease Specialist. Swollen lymph nodes in the neck can be a sign of an infectious disease, such as the common cold, mumps, rubella, strep throat, ear infection, or mononucleosis, as well as an infected wound.
Lymph nodes are located in groups, and each group drains a specific area of your body. You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
Lymph nodes are an important part of your body’s immune system. Swollen neck lymph nodes can result from infection, malignancy and autoimmune disorders. Swollen neck lymph nodes are also known as lymphadenitis, lymphadenopathy, swollen nodes, or swollen glands. Find an Infectious Disease Specialist. Swollen lymph nodes in the neck can be a sign of an infectious disease, such as the common cold, mumps, rubella, strep throat, ear infection, or mononucleosis, as well as an infected wound.