1 Smallpox: Smallpox is a serious, contagious, and sometimes fatal infectious disease caused by the variola virus. 2  Historically, smallpox had a mortality rate of as much as 30 percent. 3  In the Americas, it killed as much as 90 percent of the indigenous population after contact with Europeans introduced the disease. 
Smallpox. Smallpox is a disfiguring and potentially deadly infectious disease caused by the Variola major virus. Before smallpox was eradicated, there were two forms of the disease worldwide: Variola major, the deadly disease, and Variola minor, a much milder form. According to some health experts, over the centuries smallpox was responsible for more deaths than all other infectious diseases combined
Publication of the Inquiry and the subsequent energetic promulgation by Jenner of the idea of vaccination with a virus other than variola virus constituted a watershed in the control of smallpox for which he, more than anyone else deserves the credit. Smallpox vaccine, the first successful vaccine to be developed, was introduced by Edward Jenner in 1798. He followed up his observation that milkmaids who had previously caught cowpox did not later catch smallpox by showing that inoculated cowpox protected against inoculated smallpox.
Overview: Smallpox is a highly contagious infection caused by the enveloped, doubled-stranded DNA virus smallpox, also known as variola virus (Figure 1). The virus ranges in size from 200 nm (nanometres) to 400 nm and possesses a genome that is 200 kilobase pairs long, making it one of the largest animal viruses. Figure 1. A transmission electron micrograph of a tissue section containing variola viruses. Transmission: The usual entry of smallpox virus is through the respiratory tract with infection of the oropharyngeal (mouth) or respiratory (trachea and lung) mucosa.
The last naturally occurring case of smallpox (Variola minor) was diagnosed on 26 October 1977. Infection with smallpox is focused in small blood vessels of the skin and in the mouth and throat before disseminating. In the skin it results in a characteristic maculopapular rash and, later, raised fluid-filled blisters. V. major produced a more serious disease and had an overall mortality rate of 30–35 percent. In the United States and South Africa a much milder form of smallpox, variola minor, was recognized just before the close of the 19th century. By the mid-20th century variola minor occurred along with variola major, in varying proportions, in many parts of Africa.
1 Types: Variola major, or smallpox, has a death rate of 30%. 2  Variola minor, or alastrim, is a milder form of the virus with a death rate of 1%. 3  Four types of variola exist: classic, hemorrhagic, malignant, and modified. Variola (the virus that causes smallpox) is a member of the orthopoxvirus genus, which also includes viruses that cause cowpox, monkeypox, orf, and molluscum contagiosum. Poxviruses are the largest animal viruses, visible with a light microscope.
The disease is also known by the Latin names Variola or Variola vera, which is a derivative of the Latin varius, meaning spotted, or varus, meaning pimple. The term smallpox was first used in Europe in the 15th century to distinguish variola from the great pox (syphilis). 
Small pox is a disease caused by the variola virus. Symptoms inclu … de, a characteristic rash, especially on face, arms and legs. The rash mainly starts the 2nd or 3rd day. The resulting spots become filled with clear liquid, and then fill with pus. 1 Side Effects of the Smallpox Vaccine Smallpox is an infectious disease that can cause severe skin disfigurement with the manifestation of large blisters that can cover the entire body. 2  If left untreated, the dis…. 3  Smallpox: All You Need to Know Before it was eradicated, smallpox was a disease unique to humans.
Smallpox is the name of an infectious disease caused by a virus called variola virus, a member of the genus Orthopoxvirus, in the Poxviridae family. 1 Side Effects of the Smallpox Vaccine Smallpox is an infectious disease that can cause severe skin disfigurement with the manifestation of large blisters that can cover the entire body. 2  If left untreated, the dis…. 3  Smallpox: All You Need to Know Before it was eradicated, smallpox was a disease unique to humans.