Bacterial diseases continue to present a major threat to human health. Tuberculosis, for instance, ranks among the world's leading causes of death. Streptococcus (Group B Streptococcus), another bacterium, continues to be a frequent cause of life-threatening infection during the first two months of life.
Bacteria cause disease. Most of these bacteria, like those listed below make their presence felt immediately and may or may not result in death. Some people though, can be infected with a bacterium that normally causes a disease and not show any harmful effects at all, people like this are called carriers.
Leptospirosis. Read more. Leptospirosis is a disease caused by bacteria carried in the urine of infected animals. Many different kinds of wild and domestic animals may carry the bacterium (e.g., cattle, pigs, horses, dogs, rodents, wild animals).
Read more. Lyme disease is an inflammatory disease caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, which normally lives in mice, squirrels, and other small animals. It is transmitted among these animals—and to humans—through the bites of certain species of ticks.
Leprosy (or Hansen’s disease). Caused by a rod – shaped bacterium Mycobacterium leprae. It is a chronic infection of the skin and other tissues including nerves. The symptoms include Ulcers, Nodules, Scaly Scabs, Deformities of Fingers and Toes and Wasting of Body Parts.
Bacteria rarely, if ever, cause disease merely by being present, even the virulence factors they produce to help them invade the body often do little real harm. Virulence factors are normally enzymes. Their role is to make it easier for the bacterium to invade your body.
Diseases caused by bacteria include strep infections, staph and  MRSA infections of the skin, bacterial meningitis, and food  poisoning caused by E. coli. Bacterial infectio … ns are treated by  antibiotics. 1 person found this useful.
•Psittacosis is a lower respiratory disease caused by Chlamydia psittaci. -Symptoms include fever, headache, and dry cough. -Humans acquire the disease by inhaling contaminated dust or dried droppings from infected birds (parrots, canaries, parakeets). -Tetracycline antibiotic therapy is effective.