The most important role for the HR executive, is to understand the business implications of the HR area he/she is responsible for and to be able to discuss business objectives with other executives (e.g. management committee) and develop plans and ways in which HR can be a partner in achieving the business objectives. 
In an organization that has a board of directors, the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position that is primarily responsible to carry out the strategic plans and policies as established by the board of directors. In this case, the chief executive reports to the board of directors. The definition of chief executive officer (almost always) depends on whether a business is a corporation or not, that is, whether it (usually) has a board of directors or not.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Chairman (acting on behalf of the Board) and to the Board directly. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all executive management matters affecting the Group. All members of executive management report, either directly or indirectly, to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: 1  1. 2  Key responsibilities. 3  Leading the executive management of the Group's business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 1 1. 2  Key responsibilities. 3  Leading the executive management of the Group's business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 4  Leading the executive team in effecting the Board's, and where applicable its Committees', decisions.
The executive director is a leadership role for an organization and often fulfills a motivational role in addition to office-based work. Executive directors motivate and mentor members, volunteers, and staff, and may chair meetings. The executive director leads the organization and develops its organizational culture. As the title suggests, the executive director needs to be informed of everything that goes on in the organization.
Role of the Group Chief Executive – Approved 18 November 2011 KINGFISHER PLC THE ROLE OF THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE The Group Chief Executive reports to the Chairman (acting on behalf of the Board) and to the Board directly. Providing input into the Board’s agenda from themselves and other members of the executive team. 2.2. Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group, and proposing Board agendas to the Chairman which reflect these. 2.3.
The chief executive officer is the overall, primary management and leadership role in the organization. Therefore, it's critical that chief executive officers have strong knowledge and skills in a wide variety of areas. The definition of chief executive officer (almost always) depends on whether a business is a corporation or not, that is, whether it (usually) has a board of directors or not.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for all executive management matters affecting the Group. All members of executive management report, either directly or indirectly, to the Group Chief Executive. The Group Chief Executive is responsible for: 1. Key responsibilities 1.1. Leading the executive management of the Group’s business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. Providing input into the Board’s agenda from themselves and other members of the executive team. 2.2. Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group, and proposing Board agendas to the Chairman which reflect these. 2.3.
Role of the Group Chief Executive – Approved 18 November 2011 3.4. Ensuring that Management Development Reviews regarding their executive and management duties are carried out at least annually in respect of all the executive directors. Providing input to the wider Board evaluation process. Providing input into the Board’s agenda from themselves and other members of the executive team. 2.2. Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group, and proposing Board agendas to the Chairman which reflect these. 2.3.
An executive director is a chief executive officer (CEO) or managing director of an organization, company, or corporation. The title is widely used in North American non-profit organizations, though many United States nonprofits have adopted the title president or CEO. Executive directors motivate and mentor members, volunteers, and staff, and may chair meetings. The executive director leads the organization and develops its organizational culture. As the title suggests, the executive director needs to be informed of everything that goes on in the organization.