To do this you will need to give your new address to the USPS, which you can do either at your local USPS branch or using the online USPS changing address facility. Once you update your new address with the USPS, you can relax and begin the process of updating your other service providers with your new address. Collect all your medical records when you are about to move into a new residence. Also ask for references of doctors at the new area where ever you will be moving, from your present doctors. In case of bank accounts and credit cards, visit your local bank branches and inform them about your address change.
Four or five weeks before you move, contact the Post Office for a Change of Address form or visit the U.S. Postal Service Web site to change your address online. In either case, just fill in the form and be sure to include the date you want the Post Office to begin forwarding your mail to your new address. Collect all your medical records when you are about to move into a new residence. Also ask for references of doctors at the new area where ever you will be moving, from your present doctors. In case of bank accounts and credit cards, visit your local bank branches and inform them about your address change.
1 Submit a forwarding request with the USPS so that all your mail addressed to your old address will be automatically forwarded to your new address. 2  You can do this online or by going to your nearest post office. 3  If you submit online, there is a $1 fee. 1 Download the form from this link. 2  Banks: Change address on all your checking, savings, mortgage and credit card accounts by going to your bank's online portal. 3  Car / Rental Insurance: Go to your insurance company website and submit the change or visit your agent.
1. Visit your local post office, and pick up a change of address form. These are normally on display at your post office, but you may need to ask for one from the postmaster. There are 2 different ways to change your address when you are moving to a new location. You can change your address online for a fee or visit your local post office for free. When you need to know how to change address when moving, whether it's temporary or permanent, follow these simple steps to alert the post office.
Schools: You’ll need to let your children’s schools know that you’re moving. Do be aware that your children might have to change schools if they move out of the catchment area. Subscriptions to magazines: You’ll want your magazines to go to your new address. 
Visit the post office's website, and select the link for Change of Address. . You may see an advertisement at the bottom of the page stating that if you are moving, you can change your address online. It will cost you $1 to change your address online. There are 2 different ways to change your address when you are moving to a new location. You can change your address online for a fee or visit your local post office for free. When you need to know how to change address when moving, whether it's temporary or permanent, follow these simple steps to alert the post office.
Two Methods: Change Your Address at the Post Office Change Your Address Online. There are 2 different ways to change your address when you are moving to a new location. You can change your address online for a fee or visit your local post office for free. When you need to know how to change address when moving, whether it's temporary or permanent, follow these simple steps to alert the post office.
From my experience, I have compiled a list of all the places where you need to submit a change of address request. 1  United States Postal Service (USPS) : This is the first and foremost thing to do. 1 Download the form from this link. 2  Banks: Change address on all your checking, savings, mortgage and credit card accounts by going to your bank's online portal. 3  Car / Rental Insurance: Go to your insurance company website and submit the change or visit your agent.
Notification how-to’s. The go-to method of getting your mail at your new address has always been to put in a change of address form with the post office. You can even do that online these days, making that an immediate request (although the postal service asks that you don’t wait until the week of your move). E-mail friends and family your new address and new phone number if you have one. Mail out reminders to those who aren’t technologically savvy. 1  Tips for Settling In: A Post-Move Checklist.
If you selected that your move was temporary, the post office will only forward your mail for up to 6 months. You will need to submit another change of address if you want your mail forwarded for more than 6 months. Ad. There are 2 different ways to change your address when you are moving to a new location. You can change your address online for a fee or visit your local post office for free. When you need to know how to change address when moving, whether it's temporary or permanent, follow these simple steps to alert the post office.