Kinesio Taping is a technique based on the body’s own natural healing process. Kinesio Taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems. This method basically stems from the science of Kinesiology. Hence the name “Kinesio”. Muscles are not only to move the body but also control the circulation of venous and lymph flows, body temperature, etc.
Kinesiology tape is almost identical to human skin in both thickness and elasticity, which allows kinesio tape to be worn without binding, constricting or restriction of your movement. Kinesiology tape is an that is used for treating athletic injuries and a variety of physical disorders. For the first decade after its introduction practitioners in Japan were the main users of the therapeutic kinesiology tape.
Today, Kinesio Taping is used by medical practitioners and athletes around the world. The Kinesio Taping Method is applied over muscles to reduce pain and inflammation, relax overused tired muscles, and to support muscles in movement on a 24hr/day basis. It is non-restrictive type of taping which allows for full range of motion. Join the growing family of health professionals helping the world to perform better in everyday life and in competition. From the high-profile athlete to the rehab patient, the Kinesio Taping® Method is advancing health science everywhere.
It is also used for Preventive Maintenance, Edema, and to treat pain. Kinesio Taping is a technique based on the body’s own natural healing process. This Kinesio Taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems. This method basically stems from the science of Kinesiology, hence the name “Kinesio”. Join the growing family of health professionals helping the world to perform better in everyday life and in competition. From the high-profile athlete to the rehab patient, the Kinesio Taping® Method is advancing health science everywhere.
Kinesio Taping gives support and stability to your muscles and joints without affecting circulation and range of motion. It is also used for Injury Preventive, and to treat Pain, Edema, and Swelling. Kinesio Taping exhibits its efficacy through the activation of neurological and circulatory systems. This method basically stems from the science of Kinesiology. Hence the name “Kinesio”. Muscles are not only to move the body but also control the circulation of venous and lymph flows, body temperature, etc.
Elastic therapeutic tape applied to patient's leg. Kinesio Taping for Soleus and Achilles tendon. Elastic therapeutic tape is an elastic cotton strip with an acrylic adhesive that is used with the intent of treating pain and disability from athletic injuries and a variety of other physical disorders. The product is a type of thin, elastic cotton tape that can stretch up to 140% of its original length. As a result, if the tape is applied to a patient on a stretch greater than its normal length, it will recoil after being applied and therefore create a pulling force on the skin that it is being applied to.
Kinesio taping, developed in the 1970’s by a chiropractor, provides support and stability to muscles and joints without interfering with circulation and range of motion. It is also used for injury prevention, treating pain, edema and swelling. 
Contact Us Now! The Kinesio Taping Method is a taping technique applied over muscles to reduce pain and inflammation, relax overused muscles, and to facilitate muscles in movement. Because Kinesio Tape is a non-restrictive, highly elastic type of tape, it allows for full range of motion and function, unlike traditional sports tape. It provides stabilization and support during not only sporting events, but during daily activity also. 
Kinesio taping gives support and stability to joints and muscles without affecting normal range of motion or circulation. It is very effective in preventing injuries, eliminating edema, and pain management due to abnormal biomechanics. 