Meet the President's staff and senior advisors. Chief of Staff. Denis McDonough. Deputy Chiefs of Staff. Anita Decker Breckenridge. Kristie Canegallo. Senior Advisors. Valerie Jarrett. Brian Deese. Visit the Executive Office of the President section to learn about more of the President's staff. 
There are executive officer slots in each company, battalion, and brigade, though generally not at higher levels of command until the army level of command. The XO is typically the second-in-command, and serves as the day-to-day manager of the command staff. The US Air Force uses the term executive officer for officers assigned as personal staff officers to general officers. Their role is similar to aides-de-camp in the US Army, Marine Corps and Air Force and flag aides and flag lieutenants in the US Navy and Coast Guard.
C-level, also called the C-suite, is an adjective used to describe high-ranking executive titles within an organization. C, in this context, stands for c hief. 
There are most often higher levels of responsibility, such as a board of directors and those who own the company (shareholders), but they focus on managing the senior or executive management instead of the day-to-day activities of the business. A management team is directly responsible for managing the day-to-day operations (and profitability) of a company. Positions that are commonly considered to be part of that team include the following:
The Executive Office of the President (EOP) consists of the immediate staff to the President, along with entities such as the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of the United States Trade Representative. Every day, the President of the United States is faced with scores of decisions, each with important consequences for America's future. To provide the President with the support the he or she needs to govern effectively, the Executive Office of the President (EOP) was created in 1939 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: executive (Noun). A title of a chief officer or administrator, especially one who can make significant decisions on her/his own authority. executive (Noun). That branch of government which is responsible for enforcing laws and judicial decisions, and for the day-to-day administration of the state. 
In Project Management, senior management is responsible for authorising the funding of projects. They are sometimes referred to, within corporations, as executive management, top management, upper management, higher management, or simply seniors. A management team is directly responsible for managing the day-to-day operations (and profitability) of a company. Positions that are commonly considered to be part of that team include the following:
From the President, to the Vice President, to the Cabinet, learn more about the Executive Branch of the government of the United States. The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Every day, the President of the United States is faced with scores of decisions, each with important consequences for America's future. To provide the President with the support the he or she needs to govern effectively, the Executive Office of the President (EOP) was created in 1939 by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
In most non-naval military services that are land-based (except the U.S. Army, where an executive officer is the second-in-command at the company/battery/troop and battalion/squadron level) or in joint military organizations, the executive officer is an administrative staff position versus a command position. The US Air Force uses the term executive officer for officers assigned as personal staff officers to general officers. Their role is similar to aides-de-camp in the US Army, Marine Corps and Air Force and flag aides and flag lieutenants in the US Navy and Coast Guard.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Senior management, executive management, or management team is generally a team of individuals at the highest level of organizational management who have the day-to-day responsibilities of managing a company or corporation. A management team is directly responsible for managing the day-to-day operations (and profitability) of a company. Positions that are commonly considered to be part of that team include the following: