Blob Fish. The Blob fish is a type of fish found off the coast of Australia and Tasmania but don’t expect to see one on your holidays as they are extremely rare to come by. The reason the Blob fish is so rare is that they live very deep down in the sea, literally just off of the sea bed. The Blob fish are found at a depth of around 800 meters which would make life impossible for most fish as at that depth the pressure is roughly eighty times more than at sea level.
18 5 1 1 3 4 3 1. Not many people ever see a blob fish. That's because they live in very deep water, almost on the bottom of the ocean. To put it bluntly, blob fish are not very attractive. But the only people who ever really get to see them are fishermen who accidentally catch them in their nets when sweeping the ocean floor. The blob fish or Blob Sculpin, originated in the ocean off of the coasts of Australia and Tasmania. Where they live, at around eight hundred meters, the pressure is eighty times greater than what it is at sea level.
Binomial name: Psychrolutes marcidus. Blob fish is a strange and weirdly shaped deep-sea creature and rarely found by humans. They are native to Australian and Tasmanian deep-sea area. Blob fish lives in 600m-1200m deep and in very high pressure area, a few times higher than at the sea surface. Blob fish can be found underwater with a ridiculously strange face, but this species will die as soon as it gets out of water. Blob fish can be caught by deep-sea trawling since they live in the same area as lobsters and crabs.
1 4. Habitat!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!• The blob fish lives in the ocean• Inhabits the deep waters off the coast off of mainland Australia and Tasmania• The reason the blobfish is so rare to see is because they live literally right off of the sea bed. 1 Appearance• The blobfish is a fish that has no muscles in its body.• The blobfish is always grey and has a face that looks like a human’s.• The blobfish has a long hanging nose and a bagging mouth.• The blobfish is pretty much just a blob at the bottom of the ocean.
The blobfish (Psychrolutes marcidus) is a deep sea fish of the family Psychrolutidae. It inhabits the deep waters off the coasts of mainland Australia and Tasmania, as well as the waters of New Zealand. Blobfish are typically shorter than 30 cm. They live at depths between 600 and 1,200 m (2,000 and 3,900 ft) where the pressure is 60 to 120 times as great as at sea level, which would likely make gas bladders inefficient for maintaining buoyancy. Blobfish are often caught as bycatch in bottom trawling nets. Scientists now fear the blobfish could become an endangered species because of deep-ocean trawling.
The blobfish, in particular, lives at depths of up to 3900 feet (1189 meters) where the normal pressure is about 118 times highe r than that at sea level. It can be found off the coasts of mainland Australia, Tasmania and New Zealand. 
10. Most humans will never see a blobfish because they live in such deep waters. 11. Blobfish are currently listed as an endangered species of fish. 12. When blobfish are found in fish nets cast out to catch the kinds of fish that we eat, they are often just thrown back into the sea. 
Blobfish. Perhaps it's unfair to judge a fish out of water, but the blobfish looks more like a ball of slime than a living creature. Blobfish live deep in the ocean, where pressures are exceedingly high. In fact, the blobfish's gelatinous appearance is actually a brilliant adaptation — its gooey, pudding-like flesh allows it to stay buoyant at depths where gaseous bladders can't function. Related topics: MNN lists