Blubber is more vascularized—rich in blood vessels —than other adipose tissue. Blubber has advantages over fur (as in sea otters) in the respect that although fur can retain heat by holding pockets of air, the air pockets will be expelled under pressure (while diving). Blubber, however, does not compress under pressure. It is effective enough that some whales can dwell in temperatures as low as 40 °F (4 °C). While diving in cold water, blood vessels covering the blubber constrict and decrease blood flow, thus increasing blubber's efficiency as an insulator. Blubber from whales and seals contains omega-3 fatty acids and vitamin D. Without the vitamin D, for example, the Inuit and other natives of the Arctic would likely suffer from rickets.
Blubber helps these marine mammals from getting too cold. (Cold-blooded marine animals, such as fish, sharks or crabs, do not need to stay warm and can let their body temperatures get closer to that of the water. Thus, they do not need to have this extra insulation.) Blubber is a thick layer of fat (adipose) tissue. Animals store extra digested food in the form of adipose tissue, which contains molecules called lipids.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Blubber is a thick layer of fatty tissue that is located between the muscles and the skin of marine mammals. It serves as a source of energy for these animals during lean periods, and it also insulates them from extreme cold. The structure of blubber is slightly different than that of other types of fatty tissue. Blubber is heavily vascularized fat, which means that it is littered with an assortment of blood vessels. Its thickness allows it to act as a thermal insulator for animals while also keeping the blood of the animal warm.
• BLUBBER (noun). The noun BLUBBER has 2 senses: 1. an insulating layer of fat under the skin of whales and other large marine mammals; used as a source of oil. 2. excess bodily weight. Familiarity information: BLUBBER used as a noun is rare. • BLUBBER (verb).
Ad. Like other fatty tissue, blubber makes animals more buoyant, a useful trait for marine mammals. As these animals spend much of their lives in the water, blubber is very important to their overall health. The structure of blubber is slightly different than that of other types of fatty tissue. Blubber is heavily vascularized fat, which means that it is littered with an assortment of blood vessels. Its thickness allows it to act as a thermal insulator for animals while also keeping the blood of the animal warm.
Noun. 1. blubber-an insulating layer of fat under the skin of whales and other large marine mammals; used as a source of oil. animal oil-any oil obtained from animal substances. 
In fact, blubber can be one foot thick or more in large whales! However, thicker blubber doesn’t necessarily mean a warmer sea mammal. It’s the level of lipids (oil and fat) that makes a difference! The more oil and fat, the better the blubber is able to hold in heat! Blubber is rich in fats and oils. In addition to helping keep sea mammals warm, blubber stores energy that animals can use at a later time! You’ve probably noticed that the colder it gets outside, the thicker and warmer are the coats we wear.
Luckily, cetaceans and other sea mammals (such as seals and walruses) have a special layer of fat called blubber that provides the insulation they need. Blubber is rich in fats and oils. In addition to helping keep sea mammals warm, blubber stores energy that animals can use at a later time! You’ve probably noticed that the colder it gets outside, the thicker and warmer are the coats we wear.
Noun. 1. blubber-an insulating layer of fat under the skin of whales and other large marine mammals; used as a source of oil. animal oil-any oil obtained from animal substances. blubber-excess bodily weight; she disliked fatness in herself as well as in others. fatness, avoirdupois, fat. bodily property-an attribute of the body. adiposeness, adiposity, fattiness-having the property of containing fat; he recommended exercise to reduce my adiposity.
noun. 1. fat, fatty tissue, adipose tissue a thick layer of blubber. verb. 1. weep, sob, wail, whimper, bawl, snivel, yowl, greet (Scot. or archaic), mewl, howl your eyes out To their surprise, their mother started to blubber like a child. verb. blubber-excess bodily weight; she disliked fatness in herself as well as in others. fatness, avoirdupois, fat. bodily property-an attribute of the body. adiposeness, adiposity, fattiness-having the property of containing fat; he recommended exercise to reduce my adiposity.