Gin was developed on the basis of the older Jenever, and became popular in Great Britain when William of Orange, leader of the Dutch Republic, occupied the English and Scottish thrones with his wife Mary. Juniper-flavoured spirit drinks. This includes the earliest class of gin, which is produced by pot distilling a fermented grain mash to moderate strength (e.g. 68% ABV), and then redistilling it with botanicals to extract the aromatic compounds. It must be bottled at a minimum of 30% ABV.
Genever: Genever, or Schiedam gin, is the Dutch and Belgian version of gin, which predates and inspired all other gins. It was first distilled in the Middle Ages for medicinal purposes and was the original gin used in many of the classic American cocktails of the 19th Century. Intro: Gin was created by Dr. Franciscus Sylvus, a Dutch chemist, in the 16th century as an attempt to cleanse the blood of those suffering from kidney disorders. Sylvus named his creation genievre, Genièvre french for. juniper
Gin is a spirit which derives its predominant flavour from juniper berries (Juniperus communis). From its earliest origins in the Middle Ages, gin has evolved over the course of a millennium from a herbal medicine to an object of commerce in the spirits industry. Juniper-flavoured spirit drinks. This includes the earliest class of gin, which is produced by pot distilling a fermented grain mash to moderate strength (e.g. 68% ABV), and then redistilling it with botanicals to extract the aromatic compounds. It must be bottled at a minimum of 30% ABV.
[jəˈneːʋər]. , English /dʒəˈniːvər/), also known as genievre, genièvre, genever, peket or in The-english speaking world As dutch (gin: Archaic holland gin Or geneva), gin is the-juniper flavored national and traditional liquor of The netherlands And, belgium from which gin. evolved 
Old Tom Gin is a sweeter version of London dry gin. Simple syrup is used to distinguish this old style of gin from it's contemporaries and many include notes of citrus. Old Tom was the original gin used for Tom Collins and the gin of choice in the 19th century. Intro: Gin was created by Dr. Franciscus Sylvus, a Dutch chemist, in the 16th century as an attempt to cleanse the blood of those suffering from kidney disorders. Sylvus named his creation genievre, Genièvre french for. juniper
The history of gin is a bit blurry, as is the case with most alcoholic beverages, but most scholars agree that it is of Dutch origin. The liquor derived from grain, and flavored with juniper berries, was so enjoyed by the British troops during the Dutch War of Independence that they made the drink their own. 
3. Bols Genever. Produced by one of the oldest spirit companies in the world, Lucas Bols, this is a malty tasting gin that pre-dates the London Dry and American gins. The Dutch drink is a relaunch of an old recipe and should be enjoyed straight or on the rocks, so go easy on the tonic. £25.35 for 70cl, thewhiskeyexchange.com
From The Webtender Wiki. Genever also known as Jenever, and Hollands Gin. Jenever (also known as Genever or Jeniever), juniper-flavored and strongly alcoholic, is the traditional liquor of the Netherlands and Flanders, from which gin has evolved. The juniper berry (Jeneverbes in Dutch, which comes – in its turn-from the French Genievre) was best for that, hence the name Jenever (and the English name Gin). There are two types of Jenever: ‘Oude’ (Old) and ‘Jonge’ (Young). This is not a matter of aging, but of distilling techniques.