Germany s military power was reduced, and it was not allowed any troops in the Rhineland. Germans said this left them powerless against even the tiny countries. Yet at the same time, Germany was not allowed to join the League of Nations an insult. Germany had to pay 6,600 million reparations, a huge sum which Germans felt was just designed to destroy their economy and starve their children. Finally, Germans hated the loss of land. Yet, although the Allies did not allow Germany an army, they did not let her join the League of Nations. This was an insult, and it also meant the Germany had no way ever to get fair treatment by other states neither armies nor argument.
Best Answer: the League of Nations was an inter-governmental organization founded as a result of the Treaty of Versailles in 1919-1920. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Because, under the terms of the Treaty of Versailles, Germany took sold responsibility for the outbreak of WWI. Because Germany caused the war they were not allowed into the league. America did not join the League of Nations after the World War 1 because the US congress did not ratify the Treaty of Versailles.
On this day, September 9, in 1926 Germany joined as a permanent of the League of Nations, a politically important move that recognized Germany’s power (and the League’s weakness.). In addition to Germany at the outset, the U.S. refused to join the League. Even before WW I ended, the Europeans convened a conference to discuss an international organization — a “League of Nations,” to borrow Theodore Roosevelt’s phrase — that would work to resolve disputes before they escalate into war.
Germany s colonies were made mandates of the League of Nations, but were looked after by France (Cameroons), Britain (Tanganyika), Japan (islands in the Pacific), Australia (New Guinea) and New Zealand (Samoa). In addition, Germany was forbidden to unite with Austria (Anschluss), which was designed to keep Germany weak. Germany s military power was reduced. Germany was not allowed to have submarines or an air force. It could have an army of only 100,000 men and a navy of only 6 ships, and it was not allowed to place any troops in the Rhineland.
1 By 1930 it had 59 member countries. 2  However, Germany and Russia were not allowed to join, which caused resentment. 3  America, the most powerful country in the world, had refused to join. 4  The League had no army of it's own, and it's decisions had to be unanimous. 
The country, whose president, Woodrow Wilson, had dreamt up the idea of the League – America – refused to join it. As America was the world’s most powerful nation, this was a serious blow to the prestige of the League. However, America’s refusal to join the League, fitted in with her desire to have an isolationist policy throughout the world. Germany was not allowed to join the League in 1919. As Germany had started the war, according to theTreaty of Versailles, one of her punishments was that she was not considered to be a member of the international community and, therefore, she was not invited to join. The League of Nations was to be based in Geneva, Switzerland. This choice was natural as Switzerland was a neutral country and had not fought in World War One. No one could dispute this choice especially as an international organisation such as the Red Cross was already based in Switzerland.
Between 1920 and 1939, a total of 63 countries became member states of the League of Nations. The Covenant forming the League of Nations was included in the Treaty of Versailles and came into force on 10 January 1920. 