Carbohydrates are a superior short-term fuel for organisms because they are simpler to metabolize than fats or those amino acids (components of proteins) that can be used for fuel. In animals, the most important carbohydrate is glucose. Oxidation of one gram of carbohydrate yields approximately 4 kcal of energy, while the oxidation of one gram of lipids yields about 9 kcal. Energy obtained from metabolism (e.g., oxidation of glucose) is usually stored temporarily within cells in the form of ATP.
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates.
Most of your body cells use the simple carbohydrate glucose for energy, but your brain is particularly in need of glucose as an energy source. So, we can add that an important function of carbs is supplying energy to the brain. Of course, your body doesn't run on gasoline-it runs on carbohydrates. Carbohydrates, found in foods like grains, fruits, beans, milk products and vegetables, are by far your body's favorite source of energy, yet providing your body with pep is not the only role carbs play.
Sucrose or table sugar (a disaccharide) is a common example of a simple carbohydrate. Complex carbohydrates contain three or more sugar units linked in a chain, with most containing hundreds to thousands of sugar units. They are digested by enzymes to release the simple sugars. Starch, for example, is a polymer of glucose units and is typically broken down to glucose. Oxidation of one gram of carbohydrate yields approximately 4 kcal of energy, while the oxidation of one gram of lipids yields about 9 kcal. Energy obtained from metabolism (e.g., oxidation of glucose) is usually stored temporarily within cells in the form of ATP.
We need this amount of carbohydrate because: 1  Carbohydrates are the body s main source of fuel. 2  Carbohydrates are easily used by the body for energy. 3  All of the tissues and cells in our body can use glucose for energy. 4  Carbohydrates are needed for the central nervous system, the kidneys, the brain, the muscles (including the heart) to function 5  ... C Besides carbohydrate, protein, and fat the only other substance that provides calories is alcohol. Alcohol provides 7 calories per gram. Alcohol, however, is not a macronutrient because we do not need it for survival.
Carbohydrate metabolism denotes the various biochemical processes responsible for the formation, breakdown and interconversion of carbohydrates in living organisms. The most important carbohydrate is glucose, a simple sugar (monosaccharide) that is metabolized by nearly all known organisms. Oxidation of one gram of carbohydrate yields approximately 4 kcal of energy, while the oxidation of one gram of lipids yields about 9 kcal. Energy obtained from metabolism (e.g., oxidation of glucose) is usually stored temporarily within cells in the form of ATP.
Home » Importance of Carbohydrates. Carbohydrates are our main source of energy and provide the ideal fuel (glucose) for your body to function optimally, as well as many essential vitamins and minerals. They are also the only form of energy used by the brain. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Metabolism is important because it is literally the powerhouse of the body, providing energy to keep the body going. In fact, many science and biology dictionaries describe metabolism as a process which is necessary to sustain life. 