Thyroid peroxidase (TPO), an enzyme normally found in the thyroid gland, plays an important role in the production of thyroid hormones. A TPO test detects antibodies against TPO in the blood. The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissue
Testing for thyroid antibodies, such as thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO), is primarily ordered to help diagnose an autoimmune thyroid disease and to distinguish it from other forms of thyroid dysfunction. A person who is receiving treatment for thyroid cancer may be monitored with a thyroglobulin test. In this case, the thyroglobulin antibody test is used to determine if the antibody is present in the person's blood and likely to interfere with the test to measure the thyroglobulin level.
To function properly, thyroid peroxidase must be located in the cell membrane of certain thyroid cells, called follicular cells. Thyroid peroxidase has several different versions (isoforms), which vary by size and location within the cell. Some versions do not function because they are not located in the cell membrane. This enzyme plays a central role in the function of the thyroid gland, a butterfly-shaped tissue in the lower neck. Thyroid peroxidase assists the chemical reaction that adds iodine to a protein called thyroglobulin, a critical step in generating thyroid hormones.
Thyroid peroxidase test is a test that measures the level of an antibody that is directed against thyroid peroxidase (TPO). Autoantibodies to thyroid peroxidase (TPOAb) are produced within the body. The presence of TPOAb in the blood reflects a prior attack on the thyroid tissue by the body's immune system. TPO is found in thyroid follicle cells where it converts the thyroid hormone T4 to T3. The thyroid gland is located in the lower part of the neck, below the Adam's apple, wrapped around the trachea (windpipe).
Antibodies that attack the thyroid gland cause inflammation and impaired function of the thyroid. Your doctor may also order a TPO antibody test if you are pregnant and have an autoimmune disease, especially one that involves the thyroid, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. Some people with TPO antibodies may not have thyroid disease. The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissu
The TPO gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called thyroid peroxidase. This enzyme plays a central role in the function of the thyroid gland, a butterfly-shaped tissue in the lower neck. Thyroid peroxidase assists the chemical reaction that adds iodine to a protein called thyroglobulin, a critical step in generating thyroid hormones. Thyroid hormones play an important role in regulating growth, brain development, and the rate of chemical reactions in the body (metabolism)
Sasha, With thyroid peroxidase antibodies in the thousands you have HASHIMOTO’S! Hashimoto’s is the number one cause of hypothyroidism in the US yet thyroid antibodies are not routinely tested and then even if the person has high antibodies doctors don’t treat the underlying autoimmune condition. I assume by TPA you mean thyroid peroxidase antibodies, which in your case are high which means you have Hashimoto’s. First off, when TSH is “normal” it really depends on where in the range your TSH falls because most doctors use a range of 0.5 to 5.0 but there is a push by thyroid advocates to narrow that range.
Thyroid peroxidase or thyroperoxidase (TPO) is an enzyme expressed mainly in the thyroid where it is secreted into colloid. After entering the thyroid follicle (or thyroid follicular cell) via a Na + /I − symporter (NIS) on the basolateral side, iodide is shuttled across the apical membrane into the colloid via pendrin, after which thyroid peroxidase oxidizes iodide to atomic iodine (I) or iodinium (I +).
Thyroid peroxidase oxidizes iodide ions to form iodine atoms for addition onto tyrosine residues on thyroglobulin for the production of thyroxine (T 4) or triiodothyronine (T 3), the thyroid hormones. In humans, thyroperoxidase is encoded by the TPO gene. After entering the thyroid follicle (or thyroid follicular cell) via a Na + /I − symporter (NIS) on the basolateral side, iodide is shuttled across the apical membrane into the colloid via pendrin, after which thyroid peroxidase oxidizes iodide to atomic iodine (I) or iodinium (I +).