12. Install Guest Additions. While the machine is running, under the Devices menu, click Install Guest Additions, which will launch a setup wizard inside Windows XP. Now you will have OS mouse integration, so you won't have to press the host key to switch between your host and guest.
Instructions. Download a CD image from the Ubuntu website (see Resources). Once the download has finished, burn the CD image to a blank CD with your system’s CD burner. Log in to your Windows XP machine as a user with administrative rights. Choose Install From Windows in the dialog box that ope
Conveniently, you can do this from the Ubuntu install CD. Boot the live CD/DVD/USB flash drive and select Try Ubuntu instead of Install Ubuntu. Open a folder window and find your Windows partition under Devices. Click it to mount it. Now you can browse and view your files there, and offload anything important. So yes, all you have to do is to download an Ubuntu ISO image on another machine, burn it to CD/DVD or write it to a USB flash drive, and then boot from the CD/DVD/USB on the machine where you want to install. However, if there are files on the old computer you want to recover, it's advisable to do that first.
Just place the Ubuntu installer on a USB drive, CD, or DVD using the same method as above. Once you have, restart your computer and select the Install Ubuntu option instead of the Try Ubuntu option. Go through the install process and select the option to install Ubuntu alongside Windows. You’ll be able to select the operating system you want to use when you start your computer. Unlike with the Wubi method, there’s no disk performance penalty because you’re installing Ubuntu on its own partition. If you just want to try Ubuntu, there’s a better way. You can install Ubuntu on Windows with Wubi, the Windows installer for Ubuntu Desktop. Wubi runs like any other application installer and installs Ubuntu to a file on your Windows partition.
Scenario: You want to install XP on your machine alongside your existing Linux installation on the same physical drive which already has Ubuntu 9.04 installed. Tutorial Summary: We’ll create space on the Linux partition to install Windows XP. 
On your Win7 machine, download an ISO Disc Image of Ubuntu, mount it (I think it already mounts it in most Image burning applications) , then burn it with your favorite Disc Image Burning Application. Now, on your XP or 2000 or Whatever machine, boot the up the disc drive via the BIOS, then it should come up to setup. I have a former Windows 7 machine in which the hard drive failed. I bought a new hard drive and was forced to install Windows 2000 and upgrade to XP-it would not allow straight XP install.
Install Ubuntu. You’ll need the latest desktop ISO of Ubuntu (9.04). You can choose a list of download mirrors from the Ubuntu website or use this link from Planetmirror. Download the ISO and burn it to CD to create bootable Ubuntu CD. Boot the XP machine from the CD and select “Install Ubuntu” from the boot menu. Once the Live CD has loaded on the Welcome screen choose your language and select Forward. On the “Where are you” (timezone) page select your location and then Forward. 
Install Ubuntu. Download an Ubuntu LiveCD image (.iso) from Ubuntu Downloads and burn it to a disc (see BurningIsoHowto). 1  Insert the LiveCD into your CD-ROM drive and reboot your PC. 2  If the computer does not boot from the CD (e.g. Download an Ubuntu LiveCD image (.iso) from Ubuntu Downloads and burn it to a disc (see BurningIsoHowto). 1  Insert the LiveCD into your CD-ROM drive and reboot your PC