Allport believed each person's personality is generally determined by 5-10 of these central traits. These traits are somewhat influenced by the environment you are in, but tend to be fairly consistent. Central traits are those characteristics that easily come to mind when describing a friend that you have. David is soft-hearted and will give you the shirt off his back. He has worked hard as a bricklayer his whole life to provide for his family. However, he also has a short temper
As a result of a thorough research on Cattell's and Eysenck's personality trait theories, the Big Five theory was formulated. This model states that there are 5 core traits which collaborate in order to form a single personality. These include: Many psychologists have theorized using the trait approach to personality, which advocates the differences between individuals. To better understand the Personality Trait Theory, suppose you are asked to describe your friend's
The term Central Trait refers to general characteristics that form the foundation, or most descriptive trait of an individual's personality. 
Personality refers to individual differences in characteristic patterns of thinking, feeling and behaving. The study of personality focuses on two broad areas: One is understanding individual differences in particular personality characteristics, such as sociability or irritability. The other is understanding how the various parts of a person come together as a whole. Adapted from the Encyclopedia of Psychology. 
Allport is known as a trait psychologist. One of his early projects was to go through the dictionary and locate every term that he thought could describe a person. From this, he developed a list of 4500 trait like words. He organized these into three levels of traits. He emphasized the uniqueness of each individual, and the importance of the present context, as opposed to past history, for understanding the personality. Allport had a profound and lasting influence on the field of psychology, even though his work is cited much less often than that of other well-known figures.
If you’ve taken a college psychology course or have any interest in personality, you’ve more than likely come across the term “Big Five” personality dimensions or personality traits. These have been gathered through the result of decades’ worth of psychological research into personality. 
The concept of heritability plays a central role in the psychology of individual differences. Heritability has two definitions. The first is a statistical definition, and it defines heritability as the proportion of phenotypic variance attributable to genetic variance. The second definition is more common sensical.
Gordon Willard Allport (November 11, 1897 – October 9, 1967) was an American psychologist. Allport was one of the first psychologists to focus on the study of the personality, and is often referred to as one of the founding figures of personality psychology. He emphasized the uniqueness of each individual, and the importance of the present context, as opposed to past history, for understanding the personality. Allport had a profound and lasting influence on the field of psychology, even though his work is cited much less often than that of other well-known figures.
Defining Traits. Psychologists typically define personality as your characteristic patterns of thinking and behavior. The trait perspective of personality explores your personality traits and how many traits you have. A personality trait is a broad behavioral element that defines your personality.
Psychologists typically define personality as your characteristic patterns of thinking and behavior. The trait perspective of personality explores your personality traits and how many traits you have. Psychologists differ on the number of traits that are important, but each theorist defines personality traits along several broad type spectrums. The trait perspective of personality explores your personality traits and how many traits you have. A personality trait is a broad behavioral element that defines your personality.