agnatic descent. see patrilineal descent. ambilineal descent. a form of cognatic descent in which individuals can select to trace descent either matrilineally or patrilineally. The decision may be made each generation based on the relative wealth and/or importance of the father's and the mother's family lines.
There are two main types of unilineal descent systems, patrilineal and matrilineal. A patrilineal descent system is one in which an individual's kin group, or clan membership, is traced through men. Making it easy to remember, patrilineal descent systems trace through the papas. This is the most common form of unilineal descent. A matrilineal descent system traces descent through the women of the clan. Opposite of a patrilineal descent system is a matrilineal descent system, or a system of descent in which an individual's kin membership is traced through women. Again oversimplifying with some alliteration, it's one in which family descent is traced through the mamas!
adjective. Relating to or based on relationship to the father or descent through the male line: in Polynesia inheritance of land was predominantly patrilineal. More example sentences. 1  Polygyny is prevalent and even in groups without traditional patrilineal descent, Islam has strengthened male control of women
Patrilineal or agnatic succession gives priority to or restricts inheritance of a throne or fief to heirs, male or female, descended from the original title holder through males only. Traditionally, agnatic succession is applied in determining the names and membership of European dynasties. It generally involves the inheritance of property, rights, names, or titles by persons related through male kin. A patriline (father line) is a person's father, and additional ancestors, as traced only through males.
Patrilineality, also known as the male line or agnatic kinship, is a common kinship system in which an individual's family membership derives from and is traced through his or her father's lineage. It generally involves the inheritance of property, rights, names, or titles by persons related through male kin. A patriline (father line) is a person's father, and additional ancestors, as traced only through males.
patrilineal descent. (noun) Tracing an individual’s descent through their father’s side of the family. Audio Pronunciation: (pat·ri·lin·e·al de·scent). Download Audio Pronunciation: patrilineal descent .mp3. Usage Notes: 1  Plural: patrilineal descents. 2  An agnate is blood relative in a patrilineal descent. 1 Patrilateral refers to a person’s relations on their father’s side. 2  A type of unilineal descent. 3  In contrast to patrilineal descent, matrilineal descent is tracing an individual’s descent through their mother’s side of the family. 4  Also called: 5  agnatic. 6  agnatic descent. 7  agnation.
Adj. 1. patrilineal-based on or tracing descent through the male line; a patrilineal society. patrilinear. lineal, direct-in a straight unbroken line of descent from parent to child; lineal ancestors; lineal heirs; a direct descendant of the king; direct heredity. Translations.