Many polymeric materials having chain-like structures similar to polyethylene are known. Polymers formed by a straightforward linking together of monomer units, with no loss or gain of material, are called addition polymers or chain-growth polymers. A listing of some important addition polymers and their monomer precursors is presented in the following table.
The two types of polymer configurations are cis and trans. These structures can not be changed by physical means (e.g. rotation). The cis configuration arises when substituent groups are on the same side of a carbon-carbon double bond. Trans refers to the substituents on opposite sides of the double bond. A separate kind of chain structure arises when more that one type of monomer is involved in the synthesis reaction. These polymers that incorporate more than one kind of monomer into their chain are called copolymers.
Here you can learn about all different kinds of polymers: stretchy like a rubber band, tough like a football, soft like a sweater, silky and strong like a parachute, and even polymers that are bulletproof!! To find out more, click on a polymer or a topic on the map or on the list below. Have fun! 
1 Polymers with two or three blocks of two distinct chemical species (e.g., A and B) are called diblock copolymers and triblock copolymers, respectively. 2  Polymers with three blocks, each of a different chemical species (e.g., A, B, and C) are termed triblock terpolymers. Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer.
There are several types of co-polymer. One type is produced when two or more monomers are mixed and polymerized together. Depending on the reactivities of the monomers, they may form polymers with different arrangements of the monomer units (Figure 2). SBS is an example of a block co-polymer. SBS is so named with S referring to Styrene (phenylethene) and B for Buta-1,3-diene. Their chemical properties are similar to those of simple molecules. For example, if the polymer contains a carbon-carbon double bond, as in poly(but-1,3-diene), it will undergo additions reactions with, say hydrogen or bromine.
A branched polymer molecule is composed of a main chain with one or more substituent side chains or branches. Types of branched polymers include star polymers, comb polymers, brush polymers, dendronized polymers, ladders, and dendrimers. Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer.
3. Synthetic polymers A variety of synthetic polymers as plastic (polythene), synthetic fibres(nylon 6,6) and synthetic rubbers (Buna-S) are examples of man-made polymers extensively used in daily life as well as in industry.There are three different types based on the structure of the polymers. 
Addition Polymers. Addition polymers such as polyethylene, polypropylene, poly(vinyl chloride), and polystyrene are linear or branched polymers with little or no cross-linking. As a result, they are thermoplastic materials, which flow easily when heated and can be molded into a variety of shapes. 
Nylon, polyethene, polystyrene, synthetic rubber, PVC, Teflon…. etc.. Medical and Biological Polymers Dr.Bassam Ibrahim Khalil B-Classification Based on the structure of polymers: There are three different types based on the structure of the polymers. 
Polymers are large molecules, a type of macromolecule. Their chemical properties are similar to those of simple molecules. For example, if the polymer contains a carbon-carbon double bond, as in poly(but-1,3-diene), it will undergo additions reactions with, say hydrogen or bromine.