French's biggest solo television role to date has been as the title figure in the long running and popular BBC comedy The Vicar of Dibley, which Richard Curtis created for her. She starred as Geraldine Granger, a vicar of a small village called Dibley. 
AllMusic Review by Stephen Eddins. Howard Goodall 's music may be familiar to listeners who have never heard his name because he wrote the theme for several popular BBC comedy series, including Mr. Bean and The Vicar of Dibley.
The Vicar Of Dibley was the brainchild of Richard Curtis, famous for penning the likes of Blackadder, Four Weddings And A Funeral and Love, Actually. The character of Geraldine was created as someone who is the polar opposite of Edmund Blackadder, and whose problems are generally the result of good intentions. When their vicar passed away in the middle of a service, the inhabitants of the small Oxfordshire village of Dibley expected his replacement to be another old man with a beard, a Bible and bad breath.
The Vicar of Dibley is a British sitcom which premiered on BBC One on 10 November, 1994. From 1994 to 1998, two series and two specials had been produced and broadcast. No further series were produced. Following this, a number of specials were broadcast. 
The Vicar of Dibley. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Vicar of Dibley is a BBC television sitcom created by Richard Curtis and written for actress Dawn French by Curtis and Paul Mayhew-Archer, with contributions from Kit Hesketh-Harvey. It aired from 1994 to 2007. The Vicar of Dibley received multiple British Comedy Awards (including a Best TV Comedy Actress Award for Emma Chambers), two International Emmys, and was a multiple British Academy Television Awards nominee. In 2004, it placed third in Britain's Best Sitcom.
Description. This wonderful theme tune to the BBC TV series The Vicar of Dibley, is based on Psalm 23 The Lord Is My Shepard and is a pastoral, angelic and warming song. Howard Goodall has now made this arrangement for easy piano with the lyrics and chord symbols. 9780571520916
The real Vicar of Dibley gets her own TV role. By PJ Bonthrone. 12:01AM GMT 28 Feb 2002. THE real. Vicar of Dibley, the character played by Dawn French in the popular television sitcom, is featured in a documentary this week. The Rev Joy Carroll, a curate in Southwark, south London, was the main model for the star of the series, Geraldine Grainger, and acted as a consultant on the programme. 