Symptoms of typhoid fever. The symptoms of typhoid fever usually develop one or two weeks after a person becomes infected with the Salmonella typhi bacteria. With treatment, the symptoms of typhoid fever should quickly improve within three to five days. Common symptoms of typhoid fever can include: 1  a high temperature, which can reach up to 39-40C (103-104F). 2  headache. 3  muscle aches. 4  stomach pain. 5  feeling sick. 6  loss of appetite. 7  constipation or diarrhoea (adults tend to get constipation and children tend to get diarrhoea). 8  a rash made up of small pink spots on the trunk of the body
The distinguishing characteristics of typhoid fever illness are high fever (temperature as high as 40°C [104°F]), feeling generally weak and achy (malaise), headache, loss of appetite, rash, and sometimes diarrhea or constipation. Typhoid fever is caused by infection with a bacterium known as Salmonella Typhi. The infection causes high fever, diarrhea, and sometimes a rash that causes flat red spots on the skin. Typhoid fever is the name given to the illness caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi, a member of the Salmonella family.
Typhoid (typhoid fever) is a serious disease. It is caused by bacteria called Salmonella Typhi. Typhoid causes a high fever, fatigue, weakness, stomach pains, headache, loss of appetite, and sometimes a rash. If it is not treated, it can kill up to 30% of people who get it. Some people who get typhoid become carriers, who can spread the disease to others
Typhoid fever, also known simply as typhoid, is a symptomatic bacterial infection due to Salmonella typhi. Symptoms may vary from mild to severe and usually begin six to thirty days after exposure. Often there is a gradual onset of a high fever over several days. A typhoid vaccine can prevent about 50% to 70% of cases. The vaccine may be effective for up to seven years. It is recommended for those at high risk or people traveling to areas where the disease is common.
Typhoid Fever. Typhoid fever, also known as enteric fever or simply typhoid, is a contagious ailment attributed to the bacterium Salmonella typhi. Typhoid fever transmits very easily via polluted water supplies and food as well as when any individual comes in close contact with an infected person. 
Persons with typhoid fever usually have a sustained fever as high as 103° to 104° F (39° to 40° C). They may also feel weak, or have stomach pains, headache, or loss of appetite. In some cases, patients have a rash of flat, rose-colored spots. 
Typhoid fever is an acute illness associated with fever caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria. It can also be caused by Salmonella paratyphi, a related bacterium that usually causes a less severe illness. Typhoid fever is contracted by drinking or eating the bacteria in contaminated food or water. People with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria. Contamination of the water supply can, in turn, taint the food supply.
•. Typhoid is a serious disease is caused by the bacteria Salmonella Typhi. It is transmitted through the ingestion of food or drink, which has been contaminated by the feces of an infected person. •. Typhoid can cause a high fever, weakness, headache, loss of appetite, stomach pains, and a rash of flat, rose-colored spots. •. Typhoid is deadly without treatment, killing up to one-third of people who become infected. 
Typhoid fever is a serious disease spread by contaminated food and water. Symptoms of typhoid include lasting high fevers, weakness, stomach pains, headache, and loss of appetite. Some patients have constipation, and some have a rash. Internal bleeding and death can occur but are rare.