The three key steps of aerobic respiration are glycolysis where the sugar glucose is broken down, the Kreb's cycle where products from glycolysis are converted to other molecules and cellular energy and the electron-transport chain where molecules from the Kreb's cycle split apart to fuel the cell.
In aerobic prokaryotes, 38 ATP molecules can be produced form complete oxidation of a glucose molecule in glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and the electron transport chain.
In the second stage of aerobic oxidation, pyruvate formed in glycolysis is transported into mitochondria, where it is oxidized by O 2 to CO 2. These mitochondrial oxidation reactions generate 34 of the 36 ATP molecules produced from the conversion of glucose to CO 2.
During glycolysis, two water molecules are produced when glucose is broken down. Another water molecule is given off during the early stages of the Kreb's cycle. Additional water molecules are given off during the electron-transport stage of aerobic respiration.
The complete aerobic oxidation of glucose is coupled to the synthesis of as many as 36 molecules of ATP: Glycolysis, the initial stage of glucose metabolism, takes place in the cytosol and does not involve molecular O 2. It produces a small amount of ATP and the three-carbon compound pyruvate.
For each molecule of glucose--a sugar that acts as your body's main source of energy--aerobic respiration produces six molecules of carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide contains one atom of carbon and two atom of oxygen. This molecule is regarded as a waste product, and carbon dioxide is released every time you exhale.
If one molecule of a sugar such as glucose is broken down completely during aerobic respiration, it yields 38 molecules of high-energy ATP. Up to eight of these come from the first, anaerobic stages (glycolysis). The other 30 are obtained from the second, aerobic or oxygen-requiring stages of the Krebs cycle.
The products of complete glucose oxidation are carbon dioxide and water. Because these molecules represent the products of a thorough energy extraction, they're essentially cellular waste products -- the cell can't use them to provide additional energy. Cells recycle water produced through glucose oxidation.