In a clear day, you can see the main trail up from Wasdale Head winding its way up the west side of Scafell Pike. There is a faint trail over the west side of Great End that leads up to the Wasdale Head trail, probably the fastest way to the top, but only a few hikers take on that route, probably for a good reason. The image below is of the farm road leading from Borrowdale to Seathwaite Farm, about 1 mile. That is the 2,985ft Great End that you see in the distance in cloud, Scafell Pike is just beyond that mountain. Keswick to Borrowdale Road Map. The image below is of the hiking car park for Scafell Pike at Seathwaite Farm. The camp site is on the right here. There is room for about 100 cars, early hikers get closest to the farm, later hikers can be a few hundred yards down the road, as this hike is really popular
Scafell Pike Walk From Borrowdale. Scafell Pike is the highest mountain in England at 3,209 ft (978 metres) and is located within the Southern Fells of The Lake District National Park, Cumbria. Scafell Pike is a great days walk and I hope you enjoy your walk as much as I did my walk. Filed Under: Lake District Walks Tagged With: Borrowdale Valley, Highest Mountain, Scafell Pike, Scafell Pike Route, Seathwaite, Three Peaks Challenge.
Walking Routes. There are two main routes for climbing Scafell Pike both of which are suitable for the three peaks challenge. One starts from Seathwaite and the other starts from Wasdale Head. The route from Seathwaite is quicker to reach in the car, but adds approximately an hour onto the walk. Maps and Route Guides. You can purchase the Ordnance Survey map for Scafell Pike from Amazon by clicking here or you can visit the Ordnance Survey website. For other maps and route guides see our equipment page.
978m (3209ft). Approximate time for the challenge: 4 hours. Weather Page. Weather forecast for Scafell Pike (Met Office). Scafell Pike on Wikipedia. Maps and Route Guides. You can purchase the Ordnance Survey map for Scafell Pike from Amazon by clicking here or you can visit the Ordnance Survey website. For other maps and route guides see our equipment page.
Walking to the Summit of Scafell Pike. Click here for a description of the walk from Wasdale to Scafell Pike. Scafell Pike is located in the beautiful Lake District National Park. The seemingly innocuous hills and peaks are deceptive, and walks should not be undertaken lightly. To climb Scafell Pike you need to be properly equipped. The summit of Scafell Pike. A view from the summit. Other pages you might like: Scafell Pike from Wasdale Facts about Scafell Pike Travelling to and Stay near Scafell Pike Holidays in the Lake District Foggy Scafell Pike Dogs on Scafell Pike The Wainwrights.
Second in the challenge is Scafell Pike in the Lake District. At 978m this is the lowest summit of the three, however, with it’s relentless and steep ascent it is arguably the hardest of all. It is also considered the hardest to navigate in poor weather conditions. The national three peaks challenge is a great way to raise money for charity, and as such, thousands of people descend on and around Ben Nevis, Scafell Pike and Snowdon each year, normally around June/July time.
View from the summit of Scafell Pike. As the highest ground in England, Scafell Pike naturally has a very extensive view, ranging from the Mourne Mountains to Snowdonia. On a clear day, the following Marilyns can be seen from the summit. Data from the first 'external link' below. Scafell Pike consists of igneous rock dating from the Ordovician geologically part of the Borrowdale Volcanics. The summit plateau of Scafell Pike, and that of other neighbouring peaks, is covered with shattered rock debris which provides the highest altitude example of a summit boulder field in England.
There are two main routes for hikes to Scafell Pike, one from Seathwaite Farm by Borrowdale in the north, and the other from Wasdale Head in the west. The Wasdale route to the mountain is slightly shorter, but mainly steeper. The image below is of the farm road leading from Borrowdale to Seathwaite Farm, about 1 mile. That is the 2,985ft Great End that you see in the distance in cloud, Scafell Pike is just beyond that mountain. Keswick to Borrowdale Road Map. The image below is of the hiking car park for Scafell Pike at Seathwaite Farm. The camp site is on the right here. There is room for about 100 cars, early hikers get closest to the farm, later hikers can be a few hundred yards down the road, as this hike is really popula