Providing you have the aptitude for it at least. Of course, like any top job out there, this position isn’t one that you are going to be able to obtain easily, or even quickly. In this post we are going to take a look at exactly how long it does it take to become an accountant.
The CPA exam is offered during the first two months of every quarter, and typically over the course of several days. Candidates may take the test parts in any order they choose, but once they have passed one part, they must successfully complete the other three parts within 18 months.
About CPA Examinations. The Uniform CPA Examination is a prerequisite to obtaining a CPA license in all U.S. territories and states. Candidates do not have to take all four sections at one time, but most state boards require candidates to complete all sections within 18 months of taking the first section.
Studying to sit the Uniform CPA Exam and become a CPA can be a challenge, especially for candidates with the minimum of two years of experience. Each individual will have a different answer to how long it takes to become a CPA.
Top Accounting Degrees. You should be familiar with how long it takes to become CPA, if you are planning on becoming a CPA in the future and you are enrolling in an accounting degree program.
You could get it done in 4 years, but if you want to become a Certified Public Accountant, you have to take a pretty hard test (like the bar exam for accountants) and there is … a period of time where you have to learn on the job before you get licensed.
So how long does it take to become an accountant? Well, you are looking at a time of around 3 years if you carry out work experience whilst at college, but the norm seems to be around 4-5 years.
You can do this whilst still at school. In order to take the Certified Public Accountant Exam, otherwise known as the CPA you will need to take a bachelor’s degree in accounting, although some states do allow you to take it in a similar business field, as long as accounting is included in the course.
Of course, like most jobs out there, becoming an accountant starts off with your high school education. Since everybody needs to go there, I will discount from the final total of how long does it take to become an accountant.