Several languages are spoken there, but the official language is English. Gibraltar is a British territory. 
Home Country Guides Gibraltar. While visitors to Gibraltar may hear several languages being spoken while they are exploring the area, the only official language is English. This is used for all the workings of government and commercial purposes, as well as being the language used for teaching in schools. Home Gibraltar Speaking the Language. Gibraltar-Speaking the Language. While visitors to Gibraltar may hear several languages being spoken while they are exploring the area, the only official language is English.
Llanito (pronounced [ʎaˈnito]) is the main local vernacular, and is unique to Gibraltar. It consists of an eclectic mix of Andalusian Spanish and British English, as well as languages such as Maltese, Portuguese, Italian of the Genoese variety and Haketia. Many of Gibraltar's linguistic influences come from its neighbours, Spain and Morocco. Most locals are bilingual, also speaking Spanish, due to Gibraltar's proximity to Spain. Most Gibraltarians converse in Llanito, their vernacular which is mostly based on Andalusian Spanish, but greatly influenced by other Mediterranean languages
LANGUAGE IN GIBRALTAR. English is Gibraltar's official language. Citizens who grew up on the rock also speak Spanish as their second language. Beside English and Spanish which are spoken by the majority of people, there are also some residents who speak Arabic. English: I'm telling you, you can't. The official Gibraltar Language is English. But there are many more Gibraltar Language that many of the people speak in the region. Many of the people of Gibraltar are bi-lingual and so they can speak both English and Spanish with the same fluency. English language in Gibraltar is used in many places such as schools, government, and media. Other languages in Gibraltar that are spoken are Spanish, Arabic and also the major vernacular language of Llanito. The vernacular language of Gibraltar Llanito is a creole language based on Andalusina and Spanish
As a British overseas territory, the sole official language of Gibraltar is English, and it is used by the Government and in schools. Many of Gibraltar's linguistic influences come from its neighbours, Spain and Morocco. Most locals are bilingual, also speaking Spanish, due to Gibraltar's proximity to Spain. Most Gibraltarians converse in Llanito, their vernacular which is mostly based on Andalusian Spanish, but greatly influenced by other Mediterranean language
But there are many other languages that the people of Gibraltar speak. Many of the people of Gibraltar are bi-lingual and so they can speak both English and Spanish with the same fluency. English language in Gibraltar is used in many places such as schools, government, and media. Other languages in Gibraltar that are spoken are Spanish, Arabic and also the major vernacular language of Llanito. 
Maltese, a language which was widely used in Gibraltar up until the late 19th century, and is still spoken by some families of Maltese descent. Similarly, Genoese was spoken in Catalan Bay well into the 19th century, dying out in the early decades of the twentieth. Hebrew is also spoken by the Jewish community. Many of Gibraltar's linguistic influences come from its neighbours, Spain and Morocco. Most locals are bilingual, also speaking Spanish, due to Gibraltar's proximity to Spain. Most Gibraltarians converse in Llanito, their vernacular which is mostly based on Andalusian Spanish, but greatly influenced by other Mediterranean languages