The Caucasus or Caucasia is a region in Eurasia bordered on the south by Iran, on the southwest by Turkey, on the west by the Black Sea, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the north by Russia. The Persian name for the region is Qafqaz. Qafqâz caucasia includes The Caucasus mountains and surrounding. lowlands 
I. Physical geography. Relief and structure. The Caucasus range (the Great Caucasus in Russian terminology) is about 1,100 km long, extending from the vicinity of the Taman (or Anapa) peninsula to the Apsheron peninsula, on an axis oriented west-northwest to east-southeast. 
Geography. Georgia is a very mountainous country, with the rugged Caucasus Mountains stretching across the northern third, and the Lesser Caucasus Mountains dominating the central and southern landscape. The country's highest point, (100% within its borders) is Mt. Kazbek, rising to 16,558 ft. (5,047 m)
The Caucasus /ˈkɔːkəsəs/ or Caucasia /kɔːˈkeɪʒə/ is a region at the border of Europe and Asia, situated between the Black and the Caspian seas. It includes Southwestern Russia and northern parts of Georgia and Azerbaijan. The Transcaucasus is bordered on the north by Russia, on the west by the Black Sea and Turkey, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the south by Iran. It includes the Caucasus Mountains and surrounding lowlands.
It is home to the Caucasus Mountains, which contain Europe's highest mountain, Mount Elbrus. Politically, the Caucasus region is separated between northern and southern parts. It includes Southwestern Russia and northern parts of Georgia and Azerbaijan. The Transcaucasus is bordered on the north by Russia, on the west by the Black Sea and Turkey, on the east by the Caspian Sea, and on the south by Iran. It includes the Caucasus Mountains and surrounding lowlands.
Geography. Azerbaijan is a mountainous country, with the Caucasus Mountains covering the north and central regions. Many snow-capped peaks exceed 12,000 ft., with Baza-Dyuzi the highest point, at 14,698 ft. (4,480m)
Caucasus Mountains. The Caucasus Mountains are a mountain range between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea at the southeastern edge of Europe. On the left in the background the Crimea and the Sea of Azov can be seen. In the foreground eastern Turkey with Mount Ararat. On the right the Caspian Sea, southern Russia and the Volga River. 
I found it interesting that the Caucasus Mountains are technically considered to be a continuation of the Himalayas. The entire Caucasus region is prone to strong earthquakes. The highest peak is Mount Elbrus (18,510 ft.) which is considered the highest point in Europe. The climate of the Caucasus varies according to elevation and latitude location. For example, average temperature decreases as elevation rises. 
Transcaucasia-a geographical region to the south of the Caucasus Mountains and to the north of Turkey that comprises Georgia and Armenia and Azerbaijan. Caucasus, Caucasus Mountains-the mountain range in Caucasia between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea that forms part of the traditional border between Europe and Asia. 