Canadian inventor Thomas Ahearn is often credited with inventing the electric cooking range in 1882. An electric stove converts electricity into heat to cook and bake. Ahearn and Warren Y. Soper were owners of Ottawa's Chaudiere Electric Light and Power Company. The electric stove was showcased at the Chicago World's Fair in 1893, where an electrified model kitchen was shown. Unlike the gas stove, the electrical stove was slow to catch on, partly due to the unfamiliar technology, and the need for cities and towns to be electrified.
Early Stoves Light Up. From a cooking perspective, the ingredients of the modern kitchen came together only about 200 years ago with the first appearance of a true range—that is, a flat-topped heat source combined with an oven. 
The countertop microwave oven was first introduced in 1967 by the Amana Corporation, and their use has spread into commercial and residential kitchens around the world. Microwave ovens are popular for reheating previously cooked foods and cooking a variety of foods. 
The first parabolic solar cooker was developed in the early 1950s by M L Ghai at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) in Delhi, India. Below is a general timeline of the history of Solar Cooking. This time line courtesy of Solar Cookers International. 
After the initial invention, the next major milestone in the evolution of the stovetop oven when when Frenchman Francois François cuvillies cuvilliés was credited with developing a stew oven that kept smoke from escaping the cooker into. The. home references More Oven History. Prior to the invention of the oven, heated cooking was performed on open fires. As homes have evolved, the need for more sophisticated and safe indoor cooking appliances has evolved as well.
Around 1728, cast iron ovens really began to be made in quantity. These first ovens of German design were called Five-plate or Jamb stoves. Around 1800, Count Rumford (aka Benjamin Thompson) invented a working iron kitchen stove called the Rumford stove that was designed for very large working kitchens. 
The first stove-oven was invented by Robert Yeaman in 1345. The earliest ovens were found in Central Europe, and dated to 29,000 BC. They were used as roasting and boiling pits located within yurt structures. 
Lisa's vintage stove is a little too vintage. Image by the author. One of the things I originally found charming when I bought my 1850 farmhouse was its circa-1962 General Electric kitchen with coordinating aqua and yellow metal cabinets, appliances and countertops. 