5. Simichrome Polish is a non-abrasive cream used to clean metals. You can also use it to test Bakelite for authenticity, and this is the perferred method for many plastics lovers.
Quick facts about collecting Bakelite jewelry. 1  Bakelite was invented in the early 1900s, but making jewelry from this plastic became popular in the 1930s. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Amber Bakelite: Is the reproduction of true amber in a celluloid plastic: Plastics in some form or other have been used in jewelry for many years. Celluloid was the first known plastic, invented in 1868 by John Hyatt.
value of bakelite. I have a yellowish with white marks (kind of like marbeling) 4x8 tray with scalloped edge and matching 4x5 box with hinged lid, velvet lined on bottom only. Also a letter opener (same color and marbled look) with heavily carved handle. 
Bakelite. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) any one of a class of thermosetting resins used as electric insulators and for making plastic ware, telephone receivers, etc. [C20: named after L. H. Baekeland (1863-1944), Belgian-born US inventor; see-ite 1 ]. 
The ingredients to make the resin (carbolic acid and formaldehyde) were easily obtainable and available in large amounts. Objects made of phenolic resin were highly in demand, especially between the First and Second World Wars. Today the resin is used mostly for heavy industry products and less for daily necessities.
Bakelite (/ˈbeɪkəlaɪt/ BAY-kə-lyt, sometimes spelled Baekelite), or polyoxybenzylmethylenglycolanhydride, is an early plastic. It is a thermosetting phenol formaldehyde resin, formed from a condensation reaction of phenol with formaldehyde. It was developed by Belgian-born chemist Leo Baekeland in New York in 1907.
Linda Grossman, of Evelynne's Oldies But Goodies, deals in vintage Bakelite and other collectible jewelry. Here's what she has to say about the fakes:  1 We are dismayed that there is a cottage industry that has been created with the production of Fakelite, which has the appearance of Bakelite. Method #1: Some Bakelite collectors recommend the 409 Test. Here's how to do it: 1  Dip a cotton swab in 409 household cleaner and touch a small area of the piece, such as a back that won't be visible when worn. 2  If the piece is vintage Bakelite, the accumulated patina will show up as a yellow stain on the cotton swab.
Feel. Bakelite jewelry tends to feel heavier than many other types of jewelry. If you hold two pieces of jewelry in opposite hands (one piece that is Bakelite, and one piece that is not), there should be a difference in the weight of each piece. If there is not, the Bakelite is unlikely to be genuine. 