Iron (Fe) is the second most common metal on Earth, and the most widely-used metal. It is element 26, a transition metal in Group 8. Its symbol is Fe, from the Latin word for iron, ferrum. Its atomic number is 26 and its mass number is 55.85. It is used a lot because it is very strong and cheap.
Iron is the fourth most abundant element, by mass, in the Earth’s crust. The core of the Earth is thought to be largely composed of iron with nickel and sulfur. The most common iron-containing ore is haematite, but iron is found widely distributed in other minerals such as magnetite and taconite.
Iron is used more than any other metal for producing metal alloys. The most important iron alloys include cast iron, pig iron, wrought iron, and steel. There are various alloys of steel, but they all contain iron as the main metal. Carbon is one of the main alloying elements mixed with iron to make steel.
Find out what wrought and cast iron are, why your bike rusts, what the Earth’s core contains, what country produces the most iron, examples of iron rich foods and much more with our fun iron and steel facts. Iron is a chemical element and metal.
Iron is the 6th most common element found in the Universe. Steel is a well known and commonly used alloy made from iron and a small amount of carbon (or sometimes other elements). The amount of carbon is small (usually between 0.2% and 2.0%) but it makes a huge difference to the strength.
Iron is the first element in the eighth column of the periodic table. It is classified as a transition metal. Iron atoms have 26 electrons and 26 protons with 30 neutrons occuring in the most abundant isotope. It is the sixth most abundant element in the universe.
1 The element symbol for iron is Fe, which comes from the Latin word for iron, ferrum. 2  Iron is one of the most plentiful elements. 3  It comprises about 5.6% of the earth's crust and almost all of the earth's core. 4  The single largest use of iron is to make steel, an alloy of iron and a smaller amount of carbon.