Ozone is very rare in our atmosphere, averaging about three molecules of ozone for every 10 million air molecules. In spite of this small amount, ozone plays a vital role in the atmosphere. In the information below, we present the basics about this important component of the Earth's atmosphere. This region of the atmosphere is called the stratosphere. The ozone in this region is commonly known as the ozone layer. The remaining ozone is in the lower region of the atmosphere, which is commonly called the troposphere. The figure (above) shows an example of how ozone is distributed
The Stratosphere contains over 15% of the Atmosphere and it is also where the Ozone layer is located. Last, but not least, is the Troposhpere, which is the closest to the Earth. It ranges from 5 to 11 miles in thickness. All of our weather takes place in this layer and the air tempurature decreases with height. The Exosphere is the outer layer around the Earth. The air is very thin as the air particles are far apart. Beyond the Exosphere, is outer space. The Thermosphere was once called the Ionosphere.
1 Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 2  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 3  Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
Where is ozone found in the atmosphere? Ozone is mainly found in two regions of the Earth's atmosphere. Most ozone (about 90%) resides in a layer that begins between 6 and 10 miles (10 and 17 kilometers) above the Earth's surface and extends up to about 30 miles (50 kilometers). This region of the atmosphere is called the stratosphere. The ozone in this region is commonly known as the ozone layer. The remaining ozone is in the lower region of the atmosphere, which is commonly called the troposphere. The figure (above) shows an example of how ozone is distributed in the atmosphere.
The Atmosphere is a huge ‘blanket’ of air over the Earth, which consists of five layers. These layers are; Exosphere, the Thermosphere, the Mesosphere, the Stratosphere and the Troposphere. The Exosphere is the outer layer around the Earth. The air is very thin as the air particles are far apart. Beyond the Exosphere, is outer space. The Thermosphere was once called the Ionosphere.
The atmosphere of Earth protects us and all living things on the earth from dangerous radiation from the sun. In addition to the light we see, the sun also gives off ultraviolet radiation. Much of it is filtered out by the atmosphere. Ultraviolet radiation can destroy living cells causing harm to our skin and leading to skin cancer. The sun's rays are important for us. LET'S TALK. One more thing the atmosphere does is it allows us to talk to each other. If you were talking to your friend and there were no air between the two of you, your friend would not be able to hear a thing you said. Sound waves depend on the air to carry them from one person to another.
1 The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%. 3  Various trace gases make up the remainder. 1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward.
The atmosphere is a mixture of nitrogen (78%), oxygen (21%), and other gases (1%) that surrounds Earth. High above the planet, the atmosphere becomes thinner until it gradually reaches space. It is divided into five layers. Most of the weather and clouds are found in the first layer. 
The Troposphere-The troposphere is the lowest layer of the Earth's atmosphere. The air is very well mixed and the temperature decreases with altitude.   The Stratosphere- … In the Earth's stratosphere, the temperature increases with altitude. On Earth, ozone causes the increasing temperature in the stratosphere. The Thermosphere The thermosphere is the fourth layer of the Earth's atmosphere and is located above the mesosphere. The air is really thin in the thermosphere. A small change in energy can cause a large change in temperature.