At this stage there was a mixture of name and logo but the motto remained the same. We have been unable to find the actual story of the change to the Toa logo we have today. It first appears in the Hokioi magazine in 1949. As an image, it appeared on the 1/- coin a decade earlier. These photos show a 1934 coin. It is particularly applicable to Te Awamutu, as this district was a great stronghold of the Maoris before the advent of the pakeha. The badge of the school also typifies the Māori character of the district. The 6th Hauraki Regiment Motto was in fact. Whakatangata kia kaha, Aquit yourselves like men.
It is also the regimental motto of the 6th (Hauraki) Regiment, with which Mr Walker saw service in France. It is particularly applicable to Te Awamutu, as this district was a great stronghold of the Maoris before the advent of the pakeha. The badge of the school also typifies the Māori character of the district. The 6th Hauraki Regiment Motto was in fact. Whakatangata kia kaha, Aquit yourselves like men.
On December 19th 1998, Te Awamutu Museum opened a major exhibition celebrating the careers of Tim and Neil Finn called 'True Colours', occupying one third of the Museum's display area. . Neil Finn was asked to join them as the lead guitarist, a good choice as he was their biggest fan and knew their style. Lack of money became a problem, and a one off grant from the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council helped considerably, and their music and albums began to take off.
It was whilst he was at Sacred Heart, that Tim spent a lot of time joining small groups with different friends, and it was here that Split Enz formed. Tim's pre Split Enz band, but with some founding members, came second at The Sound Out 72 Talent quest held at the Te Awamutu Racecourse. In December of 1972, they played their first professional performance at Wynyard Hotel in Auckland, followed by an appearance the same night, at Levis Saloon in Customs Street. Neil Finn was asked to join them as the lead guitarist, a good choice as he was their biggest fan and knew their style. Lack of money became a problem, and a one off grant from the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council helped considerably, and their music and albums began to take off.
History, Never Repeats. The Finn family lived at 78 Teasdale Street (now renumbered to 588 Teasdale Street) which has been converted into a Resthome. Parents Mary and Dick raised four children Tim, Neil and two sisters (Carolyn & Judy). Neil Finn was asked to join them as the lead guitarist, a good choice as he was their biggest fan and knew their style. Lack of money became a problem, and a one off grant from the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council helped considerably, and their music and albums began to take off.
What we do know is that the community of Te Awamutu has always remembered the bravery of the outnumbered Maori men and women at Orakau and their resolve to fight on for ever. What emerges is a story where the picture changes, but the words remain the same. It is particularly applicable to Te Awamutu, as this district was a great stronghold of the Maoris before the advent of the pakeha. The badge of the school also typifies the Māori character of the district. The 6th Hauraki Regiment Motto was in fact. Whakatangata kia kaha, Aquit yourselves like men.