Certain bacteria commonly live on the skin of many people without causing harm. However, these bacteria can cause skin infections if they enter the body through cuts, open wounds, or other breaks in the skin. Symptoms may include redness, swelling, pain, or pus. 
Most importantly, bacterial and viral infections, can cause mild, moderate, and severe diseases. Throughout history, millions of people have died of diseases such as bubonic plague or the Black Death, which is caused by Yersinia pestis bacteria, and smallpox, which is caused by the variola virus. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex.
In this article. Bacterial and viral infections have many things in common. Both types of infections are caused by microbes -- bacteria and viruses, respectively -- and spread by things such as: 1  Coughing and sneezing. 2  Contact with infected people, especially through kissing and sex. 3  Contact with contaminated surfaces, food, and water
Other less common symptoms may include pain and sensitivity to light. Digestive tract: Bacterial infections, including those caused by Staphylococcus aureus or Escherichia coli (E. coli), can develop in the digestive tract if a patient consumes food or beverages that are contaminated with disease-causing bacteria. This type of infection is commonly known as food poisoning. Common symptoms of urinary tract infections include strong urge to urinate, burning sensation when urinating, frequently passing small amounts of urine, blood in the urine, or cloudy, strong-smelling urine. Vagina: When bacteria cause an infection in the vagina, it is called bacterial vaginosis.
Bacterial Skin Infections. Bacterial skin infections are usually caused by gram-positive strains of Staphylococcus and Streptococcus or other organisms. Common bacterial skin infections include: 1  Cellulitis causes a painful, red infection that is usually warm to the touch. 2  Folliculitis is an infection of the hair follicles that causes red, swollen bumps that look like pimples. 3  Impetigo causes oozing sores, usually in preschool-aged children. 4  Boils are deep skin infections that start in hair ... Sometimes, these infections aren't associated with any symptoms but can still cause serious damage to the reproductive system. Common STDs caused by bacterial infections include: 1  Chlamydia is an infection in men and women caused by an organism called Chlamydia trachomatis.
As you might think, bacterial infections are caused by bacteria, and viral infections are caused by viruses. Perhaps the most important distinction between bacteria and viruses is that antibiotic drugs usually kill bacteria, but they aren't effective against viruses. Most bacteria cause no harm to people, but there are exceptions. Infections caused by bacteria include: 1  Strep throat. 2  Tuberculosis.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. 
Harmful bacteria that cause bacterial infections and disease are called pathogenic bacteria. Bacterial diseases occur when pathogenic bacteria get into the body and begin to reproduce and crowd out healthy bacteria, or to grow in tissues that are normally sterile. Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis. Staphylococcus aureus causes a variety of infections in the body, including boils, cellulitis, abscesses, wound infections, toxic shock syndrome, pneumonia, and food poisoning. Streptococcal bacteria cause a variety of infections in the body, including pneumonia, meningitis, ear infections, and strep throat
Streptococcus pneumoniae bacteria, or pneumococcus, can cause many types of illnesses. Some of these illnesses can be life-threatening. Pneumococcus is the most common cause of bloodstream infections, pneumonia, meningitis, and middle ear infections in young children. You have probably heard of pneumonia, which is an infection of the lungs. Pneumonia can be caused by many different bacteria, viruses, and even fungi. Pneumococcus is one of the most common causes of severe pneumonia. Besides pneumonia, pneumococcus can cause other types of infections too, such as: 1  Ear infections. 2  Sinus infections. 