1 Place roast in the refrigerator a couple of days ahead of time. 2  Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 3  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 4  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides. Directions. 1 
A sirloin tip roast – also called a round or round tip roast – is a good choice for Crock-Pot cooking. Its location at the rear of the cow means a sirloin tip roast is a lean, weight-bearing muscle composed of tough muscle fibers and large amounts of connective tissue. Season the roast with a dry rub seasoning up to 24 hours before cooking it in your Crock-Pot. Keep it simple by rubbing the roast with a mixture of black pepper and minced garlic, or add extra flavor with additional seasonings such as coriander, paprika, fresh or dried rosemary, grated onion and dried thyme.
Tips. 1  Speed cooking time by setting your Crock-Pot to high and cooking a sirloin tip roast for four to five hours. 2  This may result in a less-tender roast, however, because the combination of low cooking temperatures and time produces a more tender roast. Season the roast with a dry rub seasoning up to 24 hours before cooking it in your Crock-Pot. Keep it simple by rubbing the roast with a mixture of black pepper and minced garlic, or add extra flavor with additional seasonings such as coriander, paprika, fresh or dried rosemary, grated onion and dried thyme.
Heat the oven to 325°. Line a roasting pan with foil. Put the roast in the prepared pan and rub all over with the olive oil. Combine the garlic and remaining ingredients in a small bowl then rub over the roast. Roast for 15 minutes, reduce heat to 225°, and continue roasting for about 3 hours longer, or until done as desired.
1 Rub roast with pepper and garlic; cut in half and place in a 3-qt. slow cooker. 2  Combine the soy sauce, vinegar, Worcestershire sauce and mustard; pour over beef. 3  Cover and cook on low for 5-1/2 to 6 hours or until the meat is tender. 4  Remove roast and keep warm. 5  Strain cooking juices into a small saucepan; skim fat. Directions. 1  Rub roast with pepper and garlic; cut in half and place in a 3-qt. slow cooker. 2  Combine the soy sauce, vinegar, Worcestershire sauce and mustard; pour over beef. 3  Cover and cook on low for 5-1/2 to 6 hours or until the meat is tender. 4  Remove roast and keep warm.
Place the sirloin tip roast into the hot oil and brown each side of the roast for two to three minutes. Diane Shear/Demand Media. Remove the roast from the frying pan and place it into the slow cooker. Cover the slow cooker and allow the sirloin tip roast to cook on high for one hour. Diane Shear/Demand Media. Reduce the slow cooker temperature to low and continue to cook the roast for two hours. Open the slow cooker and flip the roast over.
1 Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 2  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 3  Generously salt& pepper the roast on all sides. 4  Cover the bottom of a roasting pan with olive oil& set on medium-high heat about 4 minutes until very hot. Directions. 1  Place roast in the refrigerator a couple of days ahead of time. 2  Set the roast at room temperature for 1 hour prior to cooking. 3  Thoroughly rinse the roast& pat dry with paper towel. 4
1 Speed cooking time by setting your Crock-Pot to high and cooking a sirloin tip roast for four to five hours. 2  This may result in a less-tender roast, however, because the combination of low cooking temperatures and time produces a more tender roast. Season the roast with a dry rub seasoning up to 24 hours before cooking it in your Crock-Pot. Keep it simple by rubbing the roast with a mixture of black pepper and minced garlic, or add extra flavor with additional seasonings such as coriander, paprika, fresh or dried rosemary, grated onion and dried thyme.
1 Preheat oven to 325°, place roast in pan and place on upper oven rack. 2  Cook for 25 minutes per lb for medium or approximately 50 to 60 minutes. 3  Use a meat thermometer to check doneness-should read 140° for medium. 4  Remove from oven, cover with foil to keep warm and let rest for 15 minutes before carving. Directions. 1  Remove roast from refrigerator one hour before serving to bring meat to room temperature for more even cooking. 2  Mix together rest of ingredients and rub over roast. 3  Let set for one half hour. 4 