How To Divide The Rhizomes. Colder Climates-Where calla lilies are not winter hardy. If you are in a colder region where calla lilies are not winter hardy you'll need to dry the rhizome clusters. Brush the dirt off the rhizome clusters and place them in a shady area for several days before dividing and storing them.
1 Divide your calla lilies in the fall. 2  Transplant them at the same time if you live in a mild-climate area where the rhizomes over-winter outside. 3  In other zones, store the divisions until summer. 4  Allow them to air dry and keep them at a temperature of 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit. Tips & Warnings. 1 
How to Divide a Calla Lily. Dividing calla lilies is not difficult. Lift calla rhizomes in fall after the foliage turns brown and pulls away from the roots easily. Slide a shovel under the roots and pry upward to lift the clump. Remove any remaining foliage and brush off the soil. Cut or break apart the rhizome, making sure each section has at least one eye. Most growers prefer to divide calla lilies in spring, especially in warm climates where you can leave the rhizome in the ground year round. In cooler areas, you might prefer to divide the rhizomes in late summer or fall when you dig them up for winter storage.
Calla lilies grow from horizontal root stems called rhizomes. If after a two to three years your clumps of calla lily have multiplied and the rhizomes (roots/bulbs) become overcrowded they may stop flowering. When this happens it's time to divide them so they'll have more breathing room and space to grow. Colder Climates-Where calla lilies are not winter hardy. If you are in a colder region where calla lilies are not winter hardy you'll need to dry the rhizome clusters. Brush the dirt off the rhizome clusters and place them in a shady area for several days before dividing and storing them.
Instructions. Divide your lilies in late summer, after their blooming period and before their dormancy. Dig around the base of your calla lily with a spade to loosen the soil. As you move in a circle around the plant, push the blade deeper into the ground until you reach below the cluster of rhizomes. Tips & Warnings. 1  Divide your calla lilies in the fall. 2  Transplant them at the same time if you live in a mild-climate area where the rhizomes over-winter outside. 3  In other zones, store the divisions until summer. 4  Allow them to air dry and keep them at a temperature of 50 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit.
Step 4. Dig holes 6 inches deep and 18 inches apart. If you are dividing the calla lilies first, remove the soil from around the bulbs, and then cut them apart with a sharp knife so that each portion of bulb contains at least one bud. Replant the calla lilies into the prepared holes, and cover them with soil. Step 3. Prepare a new growing area for the calla lilies if you will be placing them immediately back into the soil. Loosen the soil down at least 6 inches with the garden spade. Add 2 inches of compost to the top of the soil, and mix this in with the garden spade thoroughly.
How To Dig The Calla Lily Rhizomes. Use a shovel or a pitch fork to dig in a circle and loosen the soil around your plant and it's rhizomes (bulbs/roots). Colder Climates-Where calla lilies are not winter hardy. If you are in a colder region where calla lilies are not winter hardy you'll need to dry the rhizome clusters. Brush the dirt off the rhizome clusters and place them in a shady area for several days before dividing and storing them.
How to Transplant Calla Lily Outside. Before transplanting calla lilies, prepare the soil by loosening it with a shovel. Work in some compost to enrich the soil and help it hold moisture. Plant the rhizomes 3 to 4 inches deep and transplant potted calla lilies into a hole dug to fit the depth of the pot. Space the plants 12 to 18 inches apart. Callas need lots of moisture, so water deeply after planting, and spread at least 2 inches of mulch around the plants to prevent moisture from evaporating. Place them in the holes so that the soil line is even with the surrounding soil. Calla lilies are ideal for landscaping garden ponds, where they thrive in water up to 12 inches deep. Place the plant or rhizome in a basket and plant it so that the rhizome is about 4
How often should you divide calla lilies? Calla lily division is only necessary when the clumps start to decline, but if you want more rhizomes to fill in the garden, it’s safe to divide them every three to five years. If you divide them too often, however, they will never quite reach their full potential. Most growers prefer to divide calla lilies in spring, especially in warm climates where you can leave the rhizome in the ground year round. In cooler areas, you might prefer to divide the rhizomes in late summer or fall when you dig them up for winter storage.
2. Separate lilies in the fall, 3 to 4 weeks after flowering is completed. You can harm the bulbs and roots if you separate lilies prior to flowering. 3. Use a garden fork to dig under and around lily clumps. Work cautiously so you don't cut the bulbs. 1  Dig several inches (centimeters) away from the lily clumps.