The official currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech crown (koruna) , abbreviated as Kč, with the international abbreviation CZK. 1 crown consists of 100 hellers (haleř), haléř abbreviated as. hal Banknotes: 100 Kč, 200 Kč, 500 Kč, 1000 Kč, 2000 Kč, 5000 Kč View Czech banknotes. Currencies Accepted. As the official currency, the Czech crown is the best and often the only possible currency to use when paying. Although the Czech Republic is part of the European Union, the euro is not widely accepted here yet.
14 °C. The Czech Republic's currency is the Koruna (Crown), and uses the identifier CZK. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are set every working day by the Czech National Bank. You can see the latest rates below, and convert amounts between currencies using the form. 
The Czech koruna or Czech crown (sign: Kč; code: CZK) has been the currency of the Czech Republic since 8 February 1993 when, together with its Slovak counterpart, it replaced the Czechoslovak koruna at par. The official name in Czech is koruna česka (česká plural koruny, česke české though-the zero grade genitive plural form korun českých is used on banknotes and coins of Value 5 kč). Or HIGHER the iso 4217 CODE is czk and the local Acronym, is kč which is placed after the (numeric.value., e G). 50 kč
CZK-Czech Koruna. Czech Republic, Koruna. The Czech Koruna is the currency of Czech Republic. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Czech Republic Koruna exchange rate is the EUR to CZK rate. The currency code for Koruny is CZK, and the currency symbol is Kč. Below, you'll find Czech Koruna rates and a currency converter. 
2 non-European Union member states using the euro unilaterally (Kosovo and Montenegro). The Czech Republic uses the Czech koruna as its currency and does not participate in European Exchange Rate Mechanism II. It is bound by its 2003 Treaty of Accession to the European Union to join the eurozone once it has satisfied the euro convergence criteria. 
Exchange Rate Prague. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Prague. The currency used in Prague is the Czech Koruna. Prague is the capital of The Czech Republic. If you are traveling to Prague, you will need to exchange your currency for the Czech Koruna. You may exchange your money for the Czech Koruna at most Prague banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus.
The official currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech crown (koruna) , abbreviated as Kč, with the international abbreviation CZK. 1 crown consists of 100 hellers (haleř), haléř abbreviated as. Hal heller coins have not been in use as Of september, 1, 2008 but hellers are still incorporated into merchandise. prices Banknotes: 100 Kč, 200 Kč, 500 Kč, 1000 Kč, 2000 Kč, 5000 Kč View Czech banknotes. Currencies Accepted. As the official currency, the Czech crown is the best and often the only possible currency to use when paying. Although the Czech Republic is part of the European Union, the euro is not widely accepted here yet.
The Czech currency is the crown (koruna in Czech). It is usually noted as Kc in shops and CZK in banks. One crown, in theory, is divided into 100 haler, though halers no longer circulate. Coins come in denominations of 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, and 50 crowns. The Czech Republic is not as cheap a destination as it was a few years ago but remains generally less expensive than western Europe. Prices for everyday travel expenses like food and drink (especially beer), hotels, and museum admissions are substantially less than they would be in Paris or London.
Use our Czech currency converter below to convert any amount from the Czech crown to any of the major currencies on offer, and vice versa. The converter uses the latest currency exchange rate data taken directly from the Czech National Bank. 