Bloodshot eyes are a term commonly used to describe red eyes. They are caused when the small blood vessels on the surface of the eye (sclera) become enlarged and congested with blood. This occurs as a result of insufficient oxygen supply to the cornea or the tissues covering the eyes. Usually, bloodshot eyes are not really a cause for major concern but if eye pain or impaired vision occurs, this may be an indication of a serious problem. A variation of this condition is a bright red, uniformly dense bloody area which forms on the sclera as a result of a small amount of bleeding.
The degree of redness usually does not correlate to how serious the situation is, but rather your overall state of health. As bloodshot eyes are usually not an isolated symptom and rather a result of another condition, taking into account the severity of other symptoms such as eye pain or impaired vision is important. Usually, bloodshot eyes are not really a cause for major concern but if eye pain or impaired vision occurs, this may be an indication of a serious problem. A variation of this condition is a bright red, uniformly dense bloody area which forms on the sclera as a result of a small amount of bleeding.
We've all experienced red, bloodshot eyes from time to time, affecting one or both eyes. Red eye is caused by swollen or dilated blood vessels on the sclera, the white outer surface of the eye. Red eyes can be accompanied by eye pain, itching, eye discharge, swollen eyes or visual disturbances such as blurry vision. In other cases, a red eye may cause no irritation at all
78 Followers. A. Eyes look red or bloodshot when the tiny blood vessels on the surface of the eye (the conjunctiva) expand and become swollen with blood. Most often, this is due to simple irritation of the eye, from allergies, dust, or dryness. Red or bloodshot eyes are also symptoms of many different conditions that affect the eye. For example, having a deep red area on the white of the eye may be due to a subconjunctival hemorrhage, a usually harmless condition.
Eye redness occurs when the vessels in your eye become swollen or irritated. Redness of the eye, also called bloodshot eyes, or pink eye can indicate the presence of several different health problems. While some of these problems are benign, others are serious and require emergency medical attention. The most common causes of eye redness happen when the vessels on the surface of the eye become inflamed. Various irritants can cause this to occur including: 1  dry air. 2  exposure to the sun. 3  dust. 4  allergic reactions.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A red-eye flight is any flight departing late at night and arriving early the next morning. The term red-eye, common in North America, derives from the fatigue symptom of having red eyes, which can be caused or aggravated by late-night travel. 
Bloodshot eyes appear red because the vessels in the surface of the white portion of the eye (sclera) become enlarged and irritated. This may result from extremely dry air, sun exposure, dust, foreign body, an allergic reaction, infection, trauma, or other conditions. Cheers! ;P. bloodshot eyes is when your eyes are all red. alot of things can cause red eye, allergies,dryness, smoking weed, are a few examples.
Bloodshot eyes describe a condition in which the whites of the eyes appear red. Bloodshot eyes occur when the blood vessels in the sclera (the white of the eye) dilate or swell. A variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions can irritate the blood vessels of the sclera and cause bloodshot eyes. They can also be due to infections and allergic reactions. In some cases, a bloodshot or red eye or eyes can indicate an emergent condition that can lead to loss of sight, such as acute glaucoma or an eye injury.
Best Answer: There are many possible causes of a red eye or eyes. Some are cause for concern, some aremedical emergencies. Others are of no consequence or concern at all. The degree of redness or appearance of blood usually does not correlate to how seriousthe situationis. bloodshot eyes is when your eyes are all red. alot of things can cause red eye, allergies,dryness, smoking weed, are a few examples.