This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Published on Sep 24, 2012. Hank veers away from human anatomy to teach us about the (mostly) single-celled organisms that make up two of the three taxonomic domains of life, and one of the four kingdoms: Archaea, Bacteria, and Protists. They are by far the most abundant organisms on Earth, and are our oldest, oddest relatives. 
1. Know how to distinguish gram-positive bacteria from gram-negative bacteria, and all bacterial cells from those of Kingdom Protista. 2. Understand distinctions between heterocysts and akinetes. 3. Learn the differences among Ulothrix, Spirogyra, and Oedogonium with respect to reproduction and chloroplasts. With the exception of protozoans, sponges, water molds, and slime molds (slime molds are the only group of these organisms that will be discussed here), virtually all members of Kingdom Protista possess chlorophyll and other pigments confined to
Bacteria are prokaryotic while protists are eukaryotic. Bacteria  DNA is not contained within a nucleus, and it is circular, whereas  in eukaryotes the DNA is found in compa … ct chromosomes. Prokaryotes  (like bacteria) also lack organelles such as mitochondria,  endoplasmic reticulum, etc. Also, prokaryotic cell walls contain  peptidoglycan. Protists are divided into three groups: protozoa  (animal-like protists), algae (plant-like protists), and slime  moulds (fungi-like protists). Bacteria are pr … okaryotic, and do not have nuclei. Also, protists are sort of like the miscellaneous category. There are plantlike cells (such as diatoms) and animal-like cells (such as ameoba). Bacteria and protists also have different shapes to their cells and different organelles.
These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Archaea were initially classified as bacteria, receiving the name archaebacteria (in the Archaebacteria kingdom), but this classification is outdated. Other aspects of archaeal biochemistry are unique, such as their reliance on ether lipids in their cell membranes. Archaea use more energy sources than eukaryotes: these range from organic compounds, such as sugars, to ammonia, metal ions or even hydrogen gas.
Essay: The Discovery of Penicillin • Antibiotics are used to kill bacteria. – Originated from fungi. Essay: Modes of Nutrition • Autotrophs. – Photoautotrophy —use light energy and carbon dioxide to create energy-rich carbon compounds, as do plants, some bacteria, and many protists. – Chemoautotrophy —use inorganic compounds (hydrogen sulfide, ferrous iron) to fix carbon from carbon dioxide. Some bacteria and archaea.
Confidence votes 54. Protists are different from bacteria and archaea as protists, that have nuclei and can be multicellular, as from bacteria and archaea, that has no nuclei and is unicellular. Bacteria are pr … okaryotic, and do not have nuclei. Also, protists are sort of like the miscellaneous category. There are plantlike cells (such as diatoms) and animal-like cells (such as ameoba). Bacteria and protists also have different shapes to their cells and different organelles.
1 Bacteria and eukaryotes have membranes composed mainly of glycerol-ester lipids, whereas archaea have membranes composed of glycerol-ether lipids. 2  The difference is the type of bond that joins the lipids to the glycerol moiety; the two types are shown in yellow in the figure at the right. Other aspects of archaeal biochemistry are unique, such as their reliance on ether lipids in their cell membranes. Archaea use more energy sources than eukaryotes: these range from organic compounds, such as sugars, to ammonia, metal ions or even hydrogen gas.
Bacteria. The Bacteria are considered as unicellular prokaryotic organisms. Unlike eukaryotes, bacteria cells lack an organized nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts and other membrane bounded organelles. Bacterial cell has only a circular DNA, which does not associate with histone protein. Bacteria do not show sexual reproduction methods.
Protists vs Bacteria. According to common biological classification, protists are classified under Kingdom Protista, while Bacteria are classified under Kingdom Monera. Unlike the cells of other organisms (plants and animals), protists and bacteria cells have very low level of cell differentiation. Unlike eukaryotes, bacteria cells lack an organized nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts and other membrane bounded organelles. Bacterial cell has only a circular DNA, which does not associate with histone protein. Bacteria do not show sexual reproduction methods.