Serotonin is a monoamine neurotransmitter. 5-HT is the chemical abbreviation for serotonin, and the chemical formula is C 10 H 12 N 2 O. It is believed to play a central role in the modulation of anger, aggression, body temperature, mood, sleep, sexuality, and appetite as well as stimulation of vomiting reflex. Other research has found that long-term use of methamphetamine may decrease serotonin levels (Seiden et al., 1975/1976). Introducing methamphetamines into the serotonergic neurons may eventually disrupt the synthesis and release of serotonin into the synaptic cleft.
Serotonin secreted from the enterochromaffin cells eventually finds its way out of tissues into the blood. There, it is actively taken up by blood platelets, which store it. When the platelets bind to a clot, they release serotonin, where it serves as a vasoconstrictor and helps to regulate hemostasis and blood clotting. Serotonin also is a growth factor for some types of cells, which may give it a role in wound healing.
The rest of the body's serotonin is synthesized within the serotonergic neurons in the central nervous system and is used in the regulation of various functions such as sleep, mood and appetite. Medications that increase the availability and uptake of serotonin are used to treat depression. 
Serotonin /ˌsɛrəˈtoʊnɨn/ or 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter. Biochemically derived from tryptophan, serotonin is primarily found in the gastrointestinal tract (GI tract), blood platelets, and the central nervous system (CNS) of animals, including humans. It is popularly thought to be a contributor to feelings of well-being and happiness. When the platelets bind to a clot, they release serotonin, where it serves as a vasoconstrictor and helps to regulate hemostasis and blood clotting. Serotonin also is a growth factor for some types of cells, which may give it a role in wound healing.
1 Foods rich in tryptophan automatically boost serotonin. 2  This is false. 3  Most foods that contain tryptophan, an amino acid, compete with other amino acids to be absorbed by the body's transport system. 4  Eating a lot of turkey, which is rich in tryptophan, will not automatically give you more serotonin. 1 This is false. 2  Most foods that contain tryptophan, an amino acid, compete with other amino acids to be absorbed by the body's transport system. 3  Eating a lot of turkey, which is rich in tryptophan, will not automatically give you more serotonin. 4  Eating a lot of banana will
Serotonin has several roles within our body. 90% of our serotonin is synthesized in our gut from tryptophan, an essential amino acid that is a precursor to serotonin; the remaining 10% is found in our Central Nervous System (CNS) similarly synthesized from tryptophan.
Causes and contributors of low Serotonin Levels and Deficiency. Serotonin is synthesized in the brain and body from tryptophan an amino acid. Tryptophan converts into 5- hydroxytryptophan then into serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine), if all of the co-factors are present. Natural Serotonin is involved in the regulation of several processes within the brain, including, depression, mood, emotions, aggression, sleep, appetite, anxiety, memory and perceptions. Serotonin regulates these processes through pathways that innervate (connect to) different brain regions.
It is synthesized, from the amino acid L-tryptophan, in brain neurons and stored in vesicles. Serotonin is found in three main areas of the body: the intestinal wall; large constricted blood vessels; and the central nervous system. The most widely studied effects have been those on the central nervous system. 
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that is synthesized, stored, and released by specific neurons in the brain. Natural Serotonin is involved in the regulation of several processes within the brain, including, depression, mood, emotions, aggression, sleep, appetite, anxiety, memory and perceptions. Serotonin regulates these processes through pathways that innervate (connect to) different brain regions.
The synthesis of serotonin is similar in some ways to the synthesis of dopamine and norepinephrine. Tryptophan is also the precursor to serotonin. Tryptophan is taken up by serotonergic neurons in restricted brain areas such as the raphe nucleus. Other research has found that long-term use of methamphetamine may decrease serotonin levels (Seiden et al., 1975/1976). Introducing methamphetamines into the serotonergic neurons may eventually disrupt the synthesis and release of serotonin into the synaptic cleft.