Autoregulation is a process within many biological systems, resulting from an internal adaptive mechanism that works to adjust (or mitigate) that system's response to stimuli. While most systems of the body show some degree of autoregulation, it is most clearly observed in the kidney, the heart, and the brain. Homeometric autoregulation, in the context of the circulatory system, is the heart's ability to increase contractility and restore stroke volume when afterload increases. This is in contrast to heterometric regulation.
There issubstantial evidence that the dependence of tissue oxy-gen on blood flow is responsible for autoregulation inorgans with high oxygen consumption.Both myocardium and brain exhibit a high degree ofautoregulation, and in both organs blood flow is highlydependent on tissue oxygen consumption. Also, when cerebralO 2 consumption is reduced by 50% in pentobarbitalcoma, cerebral blood flow also falls by 50% and auto-regulation is not impaired. 19 Similarly, in the heart,reduction in cardiac function leads to a fall in myocar-dial blood flow but the degree of autoregulation is notimpaired.
More so than most other organs, the brain is very sensitive to increased or decreased blood flow, and several mechanisms (metabolic, myogenic, and neurogenic) are involved in maintaining an appropriate cerebral blood pressure. Homeometric autoregulation, in the context of the circulatory system, is the heart's ability to increase contractility and restore stroke volume when afterload increases. This is in contrast to heterometric regulation.
Cerebral autoregulation is a process in mammals, which aims to maintain adequate and stable cerebral blood flow. While most systems of the body show some degree of autoregulation, the brain is very sensitive to over-and underperfusion. Cerebral autoregulation plays an important role in maintaining an appropriate blood flow to that region. Brain perfusion is essential for life since the brain has a high metabolic demand
The control of cerebral blood flow is complex, and only beginning to be elucidated. Studies have identified three key regulatory paradigms. The first is cerebral pressure autoregulation, which maintains a constant flow in the face of changing cerebral perfusion pressure. Flow-metabolism coupling refers to the brains ability to vary blood flow to match metabolic activity. The process whereby the cerebral arteries (specifically arterioles) maintain a constant blood flow (CBF) in the face of changing cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) is referred to as cerebral pressure autoregulation.
(1)Department of Neurology, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark. Autoregulation of blood flow denotes the intrinsic ability of an organ or a vascular bed to maintain a constant perfusion in the face of blood pressure changes. Likewise, autoregulation may be lost in the surroundings of a space-occupying brain lesion, be it a tumor or a hematoma. In many such disease states, autoregulation may be regained by hyperventilatory hypocapnia.
Our neurological physics team are part of a collaboration of researchers in Southampton who are developing methods for non-invasive assessment of cerebral autoregulation. Find out more about what cerebral autoregulation is and why it is so important on the Cerebral Autoregulation Research Network website. 
Autoregulation is a manifestation of local blood flow regulation. It is defined as the intrinsic ability of an organ to maintain a constant blood flow despite changes in perfusion pressure. This autoregulatory response occurs in the absence of neural and hormonal influences and therefore is intrinsic to the organ. When perfusion pressure (arterial minus venous pressure, P A-P V) initially decreases, blood flow (F) falls because of the following relationship between pressure, flow and resistance :
Cerebral autoregulation refers to the physiological mechanisms that maintain blood flow at an appropriate level during changes in blood pressure. While most systems of the body show some degree of autoregulation, the brain is very sensitive to over-and underperfusion. Cerebral autoregulation plays an important role in maintaining an appropriate blood flow to that region. Brain perfusion is essential for life since the brain has a high metabolic demand