Best Answer: A pulled muscle (neck strain) can take weeks to heal. See reference below to find out if it is a muscle strain-has illustrations of neck pain patterns from different muscles. Might also check out a new pillow too. Source(s): http://www.necksolutions.com/neck-strain... 
However, it has been a long 12 days and it feels much better than before, but I cannot participate on upper body (right shoulder) required sports. I play volleyball and I am so bummed that I can't play for my middle school team this year because try-outs are in 6 days. I don't think it'll be good by then. The femur can take a lot of damage without breaking, but that damage would still have to heal. Connective tissue -- depends on the injury and how well you treat it (which would typically include physical therapy).   Cuts, surgical incisions, etc. should heal comparatively quickly, again because of the blood flow.
A mild rhomboid strain may heal within a few weeks, but a severe injury may take 6 weeks or longer. To help relieve swelling and pain: 1  Put an ice pack, gel pack, or package of frozen vegetables wrapped in a cloth on the injured area every 3 to 4 hours for up to 20 minutes at a time. A rhomboid strain is a stretch or tear of these muscles. A rhomboid spasm is a sudden tightening of the muscle that you cannot control. A rhomboid muscle strain or spasm is usually caused by overuse of your shoulder and arm. This can happen from:
A muscle strain is a stretching or tearing of a muscle or tendon. Strains can occur in joints and muscles across the body, but the shoulders in particular are very susceptible to strains. 
People often times confuse the terms strain and sprain.. A strain is an injury, a stretching, or even a tearing of what we call the muscular tenuous unit. The tendon and the muscle that attaches to it, when those are injured or torn, we call that a strain: s-t-r-a-i-n. And we call that a grade-two or partial tear of that strain. Those can take anywhere from three to six weeks to heal and to recover from and most often require that the athlete stop the sport that they are participating in, whether it's running or basketball or working out.
If the bone is bruised -- longer. The femur can take a lot of damage without breaking, but that damage would still have to heal. Connective tissue -- depends on the injury and how well you treat it (which would typically include physical therapy).   Cuts, surgical incisions, etc. should heal comparatively quickly, again because of the blood flow.
It takes about 1 week to heal a pulled muscle. You need to make sure that you put ice and heat on it every three to four hours. You can not do anything to your back or it will … turn worse. The femur can take a lot of damage without breaking, but that damage would still have to heal. Connective tissue -- depends on the injury and how well you treat it (which would typically include physical therapy).   Cuts, surgical incisions, etc. should heal comparatively quickly, again because of the blood flow.
The time an injury takes to heal depends on how severe the injury is. However, it will usually take anywhere from a couple of days to several weeks. Keep cool compresses on … the area to reduce swelling as well as taking Ibuprofen. Also, use warm compresses to help with pain. One morning I didn't properly warm up and pulled a ligament in the right shoulder. I had to surrender doing pushups for 2 weeks. In the mean time; no alcohol, caffeine, smoking or red meat, and avoid as much as possible using that arm during the duration.
Apply ice until the swelling decreases. According to Sports Injury Handbooks, ice helps relax the shoulder muscle and prevents spasms. Ice also stops any bleeding and can help reduce pain. Ice your shoulder for 20 minutes, then stop. Keep this cycle going for as long as possible over the next several days. Step 4. Rest your shoulder for seven days. Avoid activities that cause you pain or additional strain. Don't avoid activity altogether, however. MayoClinic.com suggests that you exercise other muscles, such as through walking, to prevent deconditioning.