In 2006, Schecter discontinued standard production of American-made guitars and went to an entirely custom-based process. Although, all American made guitars are shown as not being produced anymore, just about anything can be ordered from the Custom Shop. SCHECTER GUITAR RESEARCH. Instruments currently produced in Burbank, CA since the late 1980s and the Diamond Series in South Korea since 1998 and Indonesia since 2014. Previously produced in Van Nuys, CA between 1979 and 1983 and in Dallas, TX between 1983 and the late 1980s.
Schecter Guitar Research, commonly known simply as Schecter, is a US guitar, bass and amplifier manufacturer. The company was founded in 1976 by David Schecter and originally produced only replacement parts for existing guitars from manufacturers such as Fender and Gibson. In 1999, Schecter added the seven string A-7 Avenger guitar to the 'Diamond Series'. It also introduced the C-1, which was debuted by Jerry Horton in Papa Roach 's  Last Resort  music video. The Diamond Series is still in production to this day.
USA PRODUCTION MODELS. Most of our USA Production instruments are made to dealer or customers specifications and build time on these instruments can take up to 3-4 months. However for those seeking one of our great USA built guitars now, you can check out the list below! 
Related: schecter vintage tom anderson guitar schecter pt zion guitar esp guitar valley arts guitar fender custom shop tom anderson schecter strat hamer usa. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
About Dean Guitars Custom Shop. Located within our 110,000 square foot, worldwide headquarters in Tampa, Florida, the Dean USA Custom Shop is a state-of-the-art, woodworking facility designed for the sole purpose of producing the best looking and best playing, Made in USA, guitars in the world. USA Series Guitars. For nearly four decades, Dean Guitars has been the player's choice for musicians all over the world. We have one of the finest custom guitar shops in the world. No matter what your taste or style is, Dean offers a choice.
ESP Custom series. ESP also build custom guitars and basses, made to the specifications of the customer and the quality of such custom guitars exceed that of the Original series. These can be ordered from ESP USA but they are made in Japan. These guitars are similar to lower-end ESP guitars, but are more affordable and cater mainly for markets outside of Japan. The 1000 series LTDs are made on an assembly line in Korea whereas the 401 series and below are made in Indonesia.
Stylish and exotic, this guitar is ready for stage, or studio. The Schecter USA Production series is designed to be a go-to guitar. The guitar you grab to record, play live, or sit on the couch and write your next hit with. It is the quality you expect from a guitar made in the USA, but at price that is within your reach. This series exemplifies what Schecter has done for nearly four decades. From their historic PT and Traditional series, to the new era of Schecter models featuring the Contoured Exotic, this is Schecter at its best. 
The USA versions are built in Schecter's USA custom shop, while the Stage series is built overseas. The Hellwin is the signature amp for Avenged Sevenfold guitarist Synyster Gates, who helped design the head with James Brown. In 1999, Schecter added the seven string A-7 Avenger guitar to the 'Diamond Series'. It also introduced the C-1, which was debuted by Jerry Horton in Papa Roach 's  Last Resort  music video. The Diamond Series is still in production to this day.
They are based in both Japan and Los Angeles, California, USA, with two distinct product lines for each respective market. ESP Company manufactures instruments under several names, including ESP Standard, ESP Custom Shop, LTD Guitars and Basses, Navigator, Edwards Guitar and Basses and Grassroots. These guitars are similar to lower-end ESP guitars, but are more affordable and cater mainly for markets outside of Japan. The 1000 series LTDs are made on an assembly line in Korea whereas the 401 series and below are made in Indonesia.
String definition on both the bridge and neck 'buckers remains impressive regardless of what number the gain control creeps up to. With the USA Production Series, Schecter puts custom shop guitar quality within the reach of us mere commoners. Schecter has done such a great job establishing the quality credentials of its sub-£1,000 Korean-made Diamond Series, that it's those guitars and basses that have come to define the brand. It's entirely likely that the majority of Schecter's contemporary fanbase aren't even aware that the company was established in 1976, produced its first custom shop instruments in 1979, and sired some of the most desirable guitars of the 1980s-more than a decade before the Diamond Series was even launched.