One of the more unique okra health benefits is that it can add bounce and volume to your hair. All you need to do is boil okra that has been sliced horizontally until the contents become slimy. Let it cool and then add a couple of drops of lemon to it. Along with containing high amounts of fiber, okra also contains high amounts of vitamins A, C, and B6. Large amounts of calcium, zinc, riboflavin, folic acid, and iron are also present in this vegetable. Women who are pregnant are urged to incorporate okra into their diets due to the high content of folic acid.
1. Vegetables. Edamame beans are the vegetable highest in sulfur. Other vegetables that are high in sulfur are sweet corn, peas, spinach, broccoli, mustard greens, cauliflower, bamboo shoots, cabbage, kale, kohlrabi, asparagus, okra, lettuce, and eggplant. These vegetables contain glucosinolates which are sulfur rich nutrients that may help prevent cance
This group is an excellent source of sulphur. Other vegetables: Other sulphur rich vegetables include kale, callaloo, spinach, asparagus, okra, lettuce, sweet corn, and eggplant. Beans: Beans are high in sulphur, (Edamame-steamed soybeans have the highest sulphur content of all) as are most types of peas
Sulfur. Sulfur is the chemical element that is found in Sulfa Drugs, Sulfites, and Sulfates. Sulfur is an essential element of life and is found in amino acids and other important molecules in the body. It is IMPOSSIBLE to have a sulfur allergy. You cannot survive without sulfur. 
The most important of these is in a bound form as sulfur-containing amino acids. SULFUR-CONTAINING AMINO ACIDS. These include the amino acids taurine, methionine, homocysteine and cysteine. They are among the most important of the amino acids, for which reason I include them here. Interestingly, sulfur is perhaps the most abundant element in the human body. It is found in most proteins in the sulfur-containing amino acids, along with phosphorus and nitrogen. These three elements form a triad of important elements needed as building blocks or structural components of all animal tissues.
Sulphur is present in most meats, but I recommend healthier sources of sulphur. Sulphur-rich vegetables contain extremely potent organosulfur compounds that offer special health benefits. Animal sources contain sulphur-rich amino acids, which we do need, but they don't contain the organosulfur compounds in plant foods. Other vegetables: Other sulphur rich vegetables include kale, callaloo, spinach, asparagus, okra, lettuce, sweet corn, and eggplant.
This group is an excellent source of sulphur. Other vegetables: Other sulphur rich vegetables include kale, callaloo, spinach, asparagus, okra, lettuce, sweet corn, and eggplant. Beans: Beans are high in sulphur, (Edamame-steamed soybeans have the highest sulphur content of all) as are most types of peas. WHEN WE talk about health, not much is usually said about the element sulphur. (Sulfur is the American spelling). Although it does not attract the attention nutritional stars like calcium, magnesium, iron or zinc get it is an important mineral for the optimal health of the human body.
This type of fiber helps to decrease the risk of certain cancers, in particular colon cancer. The seeds of okra contain oil and protein that are very rich in amino acids. The body needs certain amino acids such as cystine, tryptophan, and some sulfur amino acids. More okra health benefits include the following. 1  It can help prevent diabetes. 2  It’s excellent for people who have atherosclerosis. Along with containing high amounts of fiber, okra also contains high amounts of vitamins A, C, and B6. Large amounts of calcium, zinc, riboflavin, folic acid, and iron are also present in this vegetable. Women who are pregnant are urged to incorporate okra into their diets due to the high content of folic acid.
Fruits low in sulfur-containing amino acids include raw apples, Japanese plums raw, Japanese pears, raw peaches, figs and grapefruit. Most dried fruits contain high amounts of sulfur as a preservative unless otherwise stated on the labels. 