German Meaning: The name Johannes is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Johannes is: SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing. They also yearn to have beauty around them in their home and work environment.
Johannes is a Medieval Latin form of the personal name that usually appears as  John  in English language contexts. It is a variant of the Greek name (ιωάννης) and Classical Latin (Ioannes), itself derived from the Hebrew name Yehochanan meaning  Yahweh is gracious. The name became popular in Northern Europe, especially in Germany. Common German variants for Johannes are Johann, Hans (diminutized to Haenschen hänschen Or, haensel hänsel  Known from Hansel , and gretel a fairy tale By the), Grimm, Brothers (hannes Jens) from Danish (and Jan). from dutch Its variant in North Ethiopian Semetic languages is Yohannes. The Irish or Scottish Gaelic equivalent is Eoghan or Eoin, eóin and In welsh it Is ieuan Or, ifan anglicized  As . Evan In Estonian, Juhan, Jaan, Jaanus joonas And hannes do come from the same; Root juss And juku are the familiar names For. johannes
Johannes Early Origins. First found in Germany, where the name Johannes came from humble beginnings but gained a significant reputation for its contribution to the emerging mediaeval society. Contemporary Notables of the name Johannes. 1  W. J. Johannes, American Democrat politician, Candidate for Iowa State House of Representatives from Osceola County, 1950; Alternate Delegate to Democratic National Convention from Iowa, 1952.
It is a shorter version of another form of John, Johannes. In former times, this name was often given to men as a matter of course, along with a second name by which they were actually called: Johann Martin would be called Martin, Johann Jakob would be called Jakob, and so on. The French pronounce this name as zho-hahn. In the French documentary To Be and To have (Etre et Avoir, 2004) two of seven boys in a country school class of 3-10 year olds are named Johan(n), with one going by the nickname Jojo (zho-zho).
Latin form of Ioannes (see JOHN). The astronomer Johannes Kepler (1571-1630) and the composer Johannes Brahms (1833-1897) are famous bearers of this name.
The name John, its variants and various language forms are all ultimately of Hebrew origin. The name John itself is the English form of the Latin name Iohannes which in turn is. The names Giovanni, Hannu, Jan, Jehanne, Joao, Johan, Johanna, Johannah, Johanne are all forms of Johannes. What does Johannes mean, popularity, numerology and more. The German name Johannes is of Hebrew and Estonian origin. The meaning of Johannes is G-d is gracious.
Origin of the name Johan: Cognate of John (God is gracious), which is from the Middle Latin Johannes, an evolution of the Ecclesiastic Late Latin Joannes. Joannes is from the Greek Iōannes, a derivative of the Hebrew Yehanan, a short form of Yehohanan, which is from yehōhānān (Yahweh is gracious). Comments and insights on the name Johannes: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Johannes: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Johannes: | Edit. Jan, Joe, Joey, John, Han, Hans, Honus.
Origin and Meaning. Latinised form of the Greek name ιωαννης (Ioannes, New Testament), which is a contracted form of the Hebrew name יוֹחָנָן (Yochanan) , a combination of JO and HANN, meaning 'God is gracious'. 
Johannes /jo-han-nes/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Johannes' name origin is Hebrew, and the name Johannes means God is gracious. Johannes is an alternate spelling of John (Hebrew). Compare last name Johanns. See also Hovannes and Ieuan. 