Our Services. To get you the correct CSCS Card easily and efficiently. To get you the most suited Construction NVQ training. To find a Construction Job that suits your needs. Provide you with appropriate Revision Material to pass CITB tests. 
Quick guide-for individuals and employers wanting to apply for a CSCS card: Individuals-how to apply for your own card. 1  Use cscs.uk/com/cardfinder to find out which card you need. 2  Make sure you have passed the CITB Health, safety and environment test in the last 2 years (exemptions can be found at cscs.com.uk/test). 3  Call 0344 994 4777 and pay £30 using your debit or credit card.
After you pass the CSCS Health and Safety test you will get your CSCS Certificate in a few weeks and then you need to apply for your CSCS card. Your CSCS Certificate contains your CSCS registration number. For more information about CSCS test and card, please call our team on 0203 051 1004. 
For the real test you will have 45 minutes to complete 50 multiple choice questions, you’ll need to demonstrate that you have a good theoretical knowledge of many health and safety topics before you can pass your test and apply for your CSCS card. CSCS Mock Test Full 50 Questions. This CSCS card mock test is a full 50 question example designed to help you practice and prepare for your real Health, Safety and Environment Test.
Once you have passed your Health and Safety test you can apply for a CSCS Card with Construction Support Line. To apply for your Card with our exceptional service simply call 0203 051 1004 or apply online at http://www.constructionsupport.co.uk/cscs-card. I have passed my health and safety (managerial) test and also I am a member of APM and CIOB but have nobody from these to second my aplication. I have about 25 years experience in the industry. Can i still get the professionally qualified card.
Health & Safety Test Every person wishing to work on a construction site in the UK needs to pass a health and safety test. Passing is also necessary to apply for a skill card such as a CSCS card. Book Health & Safety Test…. CSCS, JIB Cards Required by most construction sites, skill cards show your qualifications skills, and health & safety test pass. 1 Answer. 0 votes. answered 4 years ago. You can apply for a CSCS Card by calling 0203 051 1004. If you prefer you can also book online at http://www.constructionsupport.co.uk/cscs-card. If you would like to book both a CSCS Test and Apply for a CSCS Card at the same time for a reduced price please call 0203 051 1004.
Health & Safety Test Every person wishing to work on a construction site in the UK needs to pass a health and safety test. Passing is also necessary to apply for a skill card such as a CSCS card. I have passed my health and safety (managerial) test and also I am a member of APM and CIOB but have nobody from these to second my aplication. I have about 25 years experience in the industry. Can i still get the professionally qualified card.
Get the Card to Get on Site. You need the CSCS card to get on site as most construction sites require it. To get the card you must pass the CSCS test. The CSCS card is proof of your skills, qualifications, and your competence in health and safety. 
After passing the CSCS test it is valid for 2 years, after this time you must retake the CSCS test. You can only apply for a CSCS card while your test certificate is still valid. To book or get more information about CSCS Health and Safety test, please visit: http://www.constructioncard.co.uk/cscs-test. Cookies. This site uses cookies. We have already set cookies which are essential for the operation of this site. Cookies are small files that get saved to your computer from our website.They help us identify your browser's previous activity and preferences on our website without identifying you personally.