Next, people with hypothyroidism are often told to avoid goitrogenic foods. Goitrogenic refers to the fact that these foods can increase your likelihood of developing a goiter by decreasing thyroid hormone production. Remember, a goiter is a lump in your neck, caused by an inflammation of the thyroid. It’s not pretty. Soy is probably the worse thing you can eat if you have hypothyroidism because it blocks thyroid hormones. The rest of the foods listed by the other posters are correct in that they too block the hormones but you would have to eat a lot of them in order to create a problem.
People with hypothyroidism may want to consider minimizing their intake of gluten, a protein found in foods processed from wheat, barley, rye, and other grains, says Ruth Frechman, RDN, a dietitian and nutritionist in the Los Angeles area and a spokesperson for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics. People with hypothyroidism may want to limit their intake of broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, kale, turnips, and bok choy. Cooking the vegetables can reduce the effect that cruciferous vegetables have on the thyroid gland
When a person has hypothyroidism, he or she is suggested not to eat foods which are classified as goitrogens. Goitrogens are natural substances within certain food items which may interfere with the thyroid hormone production. They known to suppress the functions of the thyroid gland. Thus, when you have hypothyroidism, eating goitrogens will further depress your thyroid hormones. The foods under this classification include: 1  Cabbage. 2  Mustard. 3  Turnips. 4  Radish. 5  Rape seed. 6  Kale. 7  Rutagabas.
Processed Foods. Processed foods tend to have a lot of sodium, and people with hypothyroidism should avoid sodium, Frechman says. Having an underactive thyroid increases a person's risk for high blood pressure, and too much sodium further increases this risk. People with hypothyroidism may want to limit their intake of broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, cauliflower, kale, turnips, and bok choy. Cooking the vegetables can reduce the effect that cruciferous vegetables have on the thyroid gland
Foods that are rich in iodine are highly recommended in the struggle to ward off hypothyroidism. Below is a categorized list of good food sources. The thyroid gland needs iodine, therefore if you have an underactive thyroid gland you should increase the iodine intake in your diet. A well-balanced diet that includes iodine can help in alleviating the symptoms that you encounter with your condition.
Iodine combines with the amino acid tyrosine to produce thyroid hormones. Fish, dairy, oats, sesame seeds, bananas, avocados, and almonds are all good sources of tyrosine. Some goitrogenic foods such as mustard greens, soybeans, spinach, and cabbage are also high in tyrosine. 
# Iodine rich food-If you have hypothyroidism, diet should always include foods that are high in iodine content such as seafood like sushi, seaweed, and saltwater fish. Iodine can also be found in bananas and parsley. Also, you should make sure to use iodized salt instead of plain rock salt in cooking. A healthy diet for someone with hypothyroidism would ideally include whole grains, natural foods, plenty of fruits and vegetables and a good supply of seafood and other lean protein. You should cut back on fatty meats. A multivitamin is probably a good idea if you don’t already take one.