1 Detect abnormalities of heart structures such as the heart valves. ( 2 An ultrasound scan of the heart is called an echocardiogram 3  .). Help to diagnose problems of the liver, gallbladder (such as gallstones), pancreas, thyroid gland, lymph nodes, ovaries, testes, kidneys, bladder and breast. The way the ultrasound bounces back from different tissues can help to determine the size, shape and consistency of organs, structures and abnormalities. So, it can: 1  Help to monitor the growth of an unborn child, and check for abnormalities. 2  An ultrasound scan is routine for pregnant women.
Transvaginal Ultrasound. Transvaginal ultrasound can be used to detect a fetus or gestational sac up to a week before traditional ultrasound. A transvaginal ultrasound is performed by inserting a lubricated wand into the vagina and performing the ultrasound internally. Detecting a Gestational Sac on Ultrasound. The gestational sac is seen earlier than a fetus can be detected on an ultrasound. A gestational sac can be seen as early as the fifth week of pregnancy or three weeks after conception.
Introduction. An ultrasound scan, sometimes called a sonogram, is a procedure that uses high-frequency sound waves to create an image of part of the inside of the body. An ultrasound scan can be used to monitor an unborn baby, diagnose a condition, or guide a surgeon during certain procedures. External ultrasound scan. An external ultrasound scan is most often used to examine your heart or an unborn baby in your womb. It can also be used to examine the liver, kidneys and other organs in the tummy and pelvis, as well as other organs or tissues that can be assessed through the skin, such as muscles and joints.
Ultrasound is used to create images of soft tissue structures, such as the gallbladder, liver, kidneys, pancreas, bladder, and other organs and parts of the body. Ultrasound can also measure the flow of blood in the arteries to detect blockages. Ultrasound testing is safe and easy to perform. Ultrasound may be used to detect many digestive problems, including: 1  Cysts or abnormal growths in the liver, spleen, or pancreas. 2  Abnormal enlargement of the spleen. 3  Cancer of the liver or fatty liver. 4  Gallstones or sludge in the gallbladder.
An ultrasound scan is a painless test that uses sound waves to create images of organs and structures inside your body. It is a very commonly used test. As it uses sound waves and not radiation, it is thought to be harmless. The way the ultrasound bounces back from different tissues can help to determine the size, shape and consistency of organs, structures and abnormalities. So, it can: 1  Help to monitor the growth of an unborn child, and check for abnormalities. 2  An ultrasound scan is routine for pregnant women.
The echoes are detected by the probe and are sent down the wire to the ultrasound machine. They are displayed as a picture on the monitor. The picture is constantly updated so the scan can show movement as well as structure. For example, the valves of a heart opening and closing during a scan of the heart. The way the ultrasound bounces back from different tissues can help to determine the size, shape and consistency of organs, structures and abnormalities. So, it can: 1  Help to monitor the growth of an unborn child, and check for abnormalities. 2  An ultrasound scan is routine for pregnant women.
An ultrasound scan, also referred to as a sonogram, diagnostic sonography, and ultrasonography, is a device that uses high frequency sound waves to create an image of some part of the inside of the body, such as the stomach, liver, heart, tendons, muscles, joints and blood vessels. A medical professional who performs ultrasound scans is called a Sonographer. Scans, or images are then interpreted by radiologists, cardiologists, or other medical specialists. The sonographer usually holds a transducer; a hand-held device which is placed on the skin of the patient.
You may have another internal examination. If your specialist is concerned that you may have ovarian cancer, they will arrange some tests. You are likely to have a blood test for CA125 and an ultrasound scan, if you have not already had them. You may also have other scans, such as a CT scan. If any of these tests suggest you may have ovarian cancer, your specialist may want to do further tests before you have surgery. If your specialist is concerned that you may have ovarian cancer, they will arrange some tests. You are likely to have a blood test for CA125 and an ultrasound first of all, if you have not already had them. You may also have a CT scan. There is information about each of these tests further down the page.