LTL stands for Less Than Truckload. This is basically anything to big for UPS small package but not a complete truckload. It is typically product on skids that can be handle … d by a pallet jack or a forklift but it can also be loose items. If you are looking for LTL solutions contact 1st Priority Services at 608-310-3110.
Below are some common shipping terms, definitions, and things to remember when shipping LTL freight. LTL stands for Less-Than-Truckload, which means the shipment does not completely fill an entire truck. An LTL freight shipment is typically palletized and ranges anywhere from 150 lbs to 10,000 lbs. 
LTL is initialization, using the first letter in the three word phrase Less Than Truckload. This means a shipment that does not require a full 48- or 53-foot trailer. LTL carriers generally utilize van trailers which are covered or enclosed trailers. There are a few refrigerated LTL carriers who utilize temperature controlled trailers. Roll up doors on the rear for access to the inside of the trailer has become a trend for carriers these days as well.
LTL stands for Less Than Truckload. This is basically anything to big for UPS small package but not a complete truckload. It is typically product on skids that can be handled by a pallet jack or a forklift but it can also be loose items. If you are looking for LTL solutions contact 1st Priority Services at 608-310-3110. This is basically anything to big for UPS small package but not a complete truckload. It is typically product on skids that can be handle … 
Share: LTL and FTL freight shipping A term common to the shipping industry is LTL or “less than truck load.” That means that the item being shipped will not take up the entire available space on the truck. FTL or “full truck load” means that the load will fill up the entire truck. 
LTL, or less-than-truckload, is a service offered to freight and trucking companies for shippers who only need a small delivery of goods at a time. Unlike full truckload drivers, LTL drivers haul multiple shipments at one time on the same trailer, each with a different destination. When searching for truck driving jobs, most will be categorized into two different types – over-the-road (OTR) and less-than-truckload (LTL). While both require the same set of skills from the driver, each job description is a bit different.
The 10 less-than-truckload carriers with more than $1 billion in annual revenue increased combined sales 4.3 percent in 2012 to $23.2 billion, accounting for 72.3 percent of total LTL industry revenue of nearly $32 billion, a study finds. LTL carriers generally utilize van trailers which are covered or enclosed trailers. There are a few refrigerated LTL carriers who utilize temperature controlled trailers. Roll up doors on the rear for access to the inside of the trailer has become a trend for carriers these days as well.
LTL is a shipping option that stands for less than truck load. This means that you can ship on larger vehicles without having to hire the entire vehicle in order to ship your cargo. The courier companies achieve this by subdividing every truckload into as many different parcels of space as they need to. 
Less than truckload shipping (LTL) is the transportation of relatively small freight. The alternatives to LTL carriers are parcel carriers or full truckload carriers. Parcel carriers usually handle small packages and freight that can be broken down into units less than 150 pounds (68 kg). Full truckload carriers move freight that is loaded into a semi-trailer. Not all LTL shipments travel by truck only. LTL carriers rely on rail or air to forward some freight toward its destination. LTL carriers are normally able to deal with railroads more effectively than small shippers are able to as LTL carriers typically send a large volume of freight each and every day.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: LTL is a Less Than Truck Load carrier such as Yellow freight and R&L carriers etc... being that they may haul only a feww item from each shipper they charge less than a full load but are hauling from a bunch of shippers at the same time therefore making more money in the long haul. 