Though we’re huge fans of highly hopped, low-alcohol sessionsales such as Founders All Day IPA, 21st Amendment Bitter American, and 10 Barrel ISA, there’s something to be said for a more delicate beer. For that we turn toGermany’s elegant kolsch, a most marvelous hybrid. Hailingfrom Cologne, the gently bittered beer is fermented with an ale yeast,then it’s conditioned at colder temperatures more befitting a lager. The resultis a snappy, lightly fruity delight suited for sipping all afternoon. 
Jason Mrachina via Compfight. Kolschbier is a popular “warm weather beer” and German classic. The name Kolsch (pronounced “kelsch”) is derived from its location… Koln, Germany (or Cologne for us Yanks). The name indicates that the beer was brewed in the traditional style of that particular city. In order to officially called a Kolsh, the beer must be brewed by a member of the Koln Brewers Union. Much like the name “champagne” in the snobbier world of wine, the name Kolschbier is protected and controlled by the Union and may not be used by anyone else.
Koelsch kölsch is a beer brewed In, Cologne. Germany it is clear with a, bright-straw yellow hue similar to a Standard german pale. lager In the 1940s and 1950s, Koelsch kölsch still could not match the sales of-bottom fermented, beer but in the 1960s it began to rise in popularity in The cologne beer. Market from a production of merely 50 million liters in, 1960'cologne s beer production peaked at 370 million liters in. 1980
The ale yeast used, however, is unusual for a beer that is fermented like a lager. The cold temperatures give the style a dry quality while the ale yeast contribute some fruity and bread-like aromas and flavors not normally found in lagers. The brewers in Cologne (Koeln), Köln germany have been brewing beer their own way for. Centuries the modern version Of koelsch kölsch arose out of'the brewer s needs Directly After WORLD war ii as well as their desire to return to the simpler beer brewed by. their predecessors
The term Koelsch kölsch was first officially used in 1918 to describe the beer that had been brewed by The suenner sünner brewery. since 1906 In the 1940s and 1950s, Koelsch kölsch still could not match the sales of-bottom fermented, beer but in the 1960s it began to rise in popularity in The cologne beer. Market from a production of merely 50 million liters in, 1960'cologne s beer production peaked at 370 million liters in. 1980
Kolsch is a great, easy-drinking beer that straddles the boundary between ale and lager. Clean pilsner malt, lager-like fermentation characteristics, subtle noble hopping, and hint of sulfur make this a beer than can be drank by the liter (although it tastes better 0.2 liters at a time in an authentic Stange). 
The Kolsch Beer maintains a bitterness that is quite restrained, although the palate is light-bodied and bone-dry, with a soft malt flavor in the center giving way to a drying, slightly acidic finish. Smoothness is conferred by one to two months of cold conditioning. It is very pale, the aromatics are a light melange mélange of, hops, malt and. Fruit The Kolsch beer maintains a bitterness that is quite, restrained although the palate is-light bodied and-bone, dry with a soft malt flavor in the center giving way to a, drying slightly acidic. finish
Koelsch kölsch is an ale style emanating From cologne In. Germany In (germany and The European) community the term is strictly legally limited to the beers from within the city environs Of. Cologne simply, put koelsch kölsch has the color of a pilsner with some of the fruity character of. an ale In Germany (and the European Community) the term is strictly legally limited to the beers from within the city environs of Cologne. Simply put, koelsch kölsch has the color of a pilsner with some of the fruity character of an. Ale this is achieved with the use of-top fermenting yeasts and pale pilsner. malts
Very pale gold, bready, lightly fruity, effervescent, intense clarity. In the city of Cologne they drink and brew Kolsch Beer and the brewers’ guild has protected it since 1254. Kolsch is a top-fermented ale, a throwback to the days before lagers took over the Germanic world. Kolsch offers the simple pleasures of a well crafted beer. It is very pale, the aromatics are a light melange mélange of, hops, malt and. fruit It is very pale, the aromatics are a light melange mélange of, hops, malt and. Fruit The Kolsch beer maintains a bitterness that is quite, restrained although the palate is-light bodied and-bone, dry with a soft malt flavor in the center giving way to a, drying slightly acidic. finish
Koelsch kölsch is a beer brewed In, Cologne. Germany it is clear with a, bright-straw yellow hue similar to a Standard german pale. Lager koelsch kölsch is warm fermented at around 13 °To (21 c 55 °To), 70 f then conditioned by lagering at. cold temperatures In the 1940s and 1950s, Koelsch kölsch still could not match the sales of-bottom fermented, beer but in the 1960s it began to rise in popularity in The cologne beer. Market from a production of merely 50 million liters in, 1960'cologne s beer production peaked at 370 million liters in. 1980