In some individuals, the QT prolongation occurs after the administration of certain medications, which may be dangerous. In addition to medications, long QT syndrome can be acquired from malnutrition leading to low blood potassium or low blood magnesium, as in anorexia nervosa. The condition is so named because of the appearances of the electrocardiogram (ECG/EKG), on which a prolongation of the QT interval occurs. Normally, the QT interval duration is between 350 and 440 milliseconds.
Prescribers are advised to consider the possibility of drug-induced QT prolongation or Torsades de Pointes (TdP) in patients presenting with new onset syncope, palpitations, seizures or resuscitated cardiac arrest. An up-to-date database of medicines with the potential to cause QT prolongation/TdP, including a separate list of medicines to be avoided by patients with congenital long QT syndrome, is available on-line at www.qtdrugs.org.
Practice Essentials. Long QT syndrome is a congenital disorder characterized by a prolongation of the QT interval on electrocardiograms and a propensity to ventricular tachyarrhythmias, which may lead to syncope, cardiac arrest, or sudden death. See the image below. Background. Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a congenital disorder characterized by a prolongation of the QT interval on electrocardiograms (ECGs) and a propensity to ventricular tachyarrhythmias, which may lead to syncope, cardiac arrest, or sudden death. (See Etiology, Prognosis, Presentation, and Workup.).
LQTS is diagnosed primarily upon recognition of a prolonged QT interval on the ECG. A QTc of 470 milliseconds (ms) in males and 480 ms in females is generally considered strongly suspicious for LQTS, in the absence of medications, which prolong the QT interval or other forms of heart disease. 
In cardiology, the QT interval is a measure of the time between the start of the Q wave and the end of the T wave in the heart's electrical cycle. The QT interval represents electrical depolarization and repolarization of the ventricles. A lengthened QT interval is a marker for the potential of ventricular tachyarrhythmias like torsades de pointes and a risk factor for sudden death. QT interval dispersion (QTd) is the maximum QT interval minus the minimum QT interval, and is linked with ventricular repolarization. A QTd over 80 ms is considered abnormally prolonged. Increased QTd is associated with mortality in type 2 diabetes.
QT Prolongation. Recognition of a prolonged QT interval is complicated by the problems inherent in identification of T wave end and the inaccuracy of Bazlet's formula for correcting for heart rate. It may be preferable to judge the QT interval by changes in length or when it exceeds 50% of the R-R interval. QT prolongation can be due to rare hereditary abnormalities, to type Ia anti-arrhythmics such as quinidine, and to hypocalcemia or hypomagnesia. The importance of recognizing prolonged QT interval is that it is associated with PVC's, ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation (ie., vulnerability to lethal arrhythmia).
Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a disorder of the heart's electrical activity. It can cause sudden, uncontrollable, dangerous arrhythmias (ah-RITH-me-ahs) in response to exercise or stress. Arrhythmias are problems with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat. People who have LQTS also can have arrhythmias for no known reason. 
Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a heart rhythm disorder that can potentially cause fast, chaotic heartbeats. These rapid heartbeats may trigger a sudden fainting spell or seizure. In some cases, your heart may beat erratically for so long that it can cause sudden death. Long QT syndrome is treatable. You may need to limit your physical activity, avoid medications known to cause prolonged Q-T intervals or take medications to prevent a chaotic heart rhythm. Some people with long QT syndrome need surgery or an implantable device.
Long QT syndrome (LQTS) is a rare inherited or acquired heart condition in which delayed repolarization of the heart following a heartbeat increases the risk of episodes of torsades de pointes (TdP, a form of irregular heartbeat that originates from the ventricles). The condition is so named because of the appearances of the electrocardiogram (ECG/EKG), on which a prolongation of the QT interval occurs. Normally, the QT interval duration is between 350 and 440 milliseconds.