The noun SENTIENCE has 3 senses: 1. state of elementary or undifferentiated consciousness. 2. the faculty through which the external world is apprehended. 3. the readiness to perceive sensations; elementary or undifferentiated consciousness. Familiarity information: SENTIENCE used as a noun is uncommon. The readiness to perceive sensations; elementary or undifferentiated consciousness. Classified under: Nouns denoting attributes of people and objects. Context example: gave sentience to slugs and newts.
In modern Western philosophy, sentience is the ability to experience sensations (known in philosophy of mind as  qualia ). In Eastern philosophy, sentience is a metaphysical quality of all things that requires respect and care. The concept is central to the philosophy of animal rights, because sentience is necessary for the ability to suffer, and thus is held to confer certain rights.
sentience. n. 1. the state or quality of being sentient; awareness. 2. sense perception not involving intelligence or mental perception; feeling. (ˈsɛn ʃəns). n
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of sentience): modality; sense modality; sensory system (a particular sense). sensibility; sensitiveness; sensitivity ((physiology) responsiveness to external stimuli; the faculty of sensation). The readiness to perceive sensations; elementary or undifferentiated consciousness. Classified under: Nouns denoting attributes of people and objects. Context example: gave sentience to slugs and newts.
Sentient beings is a technical term within Buddhism, broadly denoting beings with consciousness, sentience, or in some contexts life itself. Sentient beings are composed of the five aggregates, or skandhas: matter, sensation, perception, mental formations and consciousness. 
Sentience. Sentience is the ability to feel, perceive, or be conscious, or to experience subjectivity. Eighteenth century philosophers used the concept to distinguish the ability to think from the ability to feel. In modern western philosophy, sentience is the ability to experience sensations. For Eastern philosophy, sentience is a metaphysical quality of all things that requires respect and care.
The most basic way of experiencing the world is through feeling or sensation. 'Sentience' is defined as the ability to have perceptions and sensations. A 'sentient animal' is an animal that is aware of his/her surroundings and of what happens to him/her and is capable of feeling pain and pleasure, at the least. The basis of animal rights is the recognition that animals are sentient beings. This means they are capable of being aware of sensations and emotions, of feeling pain and suffering, and of experiencing a state of well being.
Sentience is a minimalistic way of defining consciousness, which is otherwise commonly used to collectively describe sentience plus other characteristics of the mind. Some philosophers, notably Colin McGinn, believe that sentience will never be understood, a position known as  new mysterianism . The concept is central to the philosophy of animal rights, because sentience is necessary for the ability to suffer, and thus is held to confer certain rights.
In the philosophy of consciousness, sentience can refer to the ability of any entity to have subjective perceptual experiences, or as some philosophers refer to them,  qualia . The concept is central to the philosophy of animal rights, because sentience is necessary for the ability to suffer, and thus is held to confer certain rights.