Ground beef that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional one to two days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. And since you thawed the ground beef in the fridge, you can also safely refreeze it within that same timeframe, says the USDA. None of this would apply, on the other hand, if you had thawed the ground beef in the microwave or in cold water.
12 to 16 pounds — 3 to 4 days. 16 to 20 pounds — 4 to 5 days. 20 to 24 pounds —5 to 6 days. A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for one or two days before cooking. Foods thawed in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking, but there may be some loss of quality. Cold Water Thawing. Allow about 30 minutes per pound. A package of frozen meat or poultry left thawing on the counter more than two hours is not at a safe temperature. Even though the center of the package may still be frozen, the outer layer of the food is in the “Danger Zone” between 40 and 140 degrees F — at a temperature where foodborne bacteria rapidly multiply.
1 Place it on a tray to catch any juices that may leak. 2  A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. 3  If necessary, a turkey that has been properly thawed in the refrigerator may be refrozen. 1 Thawing in the Refrigerator: 2  Keep the turkey in its original wrapper. 3  Place it on a tray to catch any juices that may leak. 4  A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days.
If a quick thaw was done, then it should be cooked ASAP Refrigerator Thawing When thawin … g a turkey in the refrigerator: Plan ahead: allow approximately 24 hours for each 4 to 5 pounds in a refrigerator set at 40 °F or below.Place the turkey in a container to prevent the juices from dripping on other foods. Uncooked = 2 days max. Cooked, maybe 4 days. Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airtight container.
Thaw frozen turkey patties in the refrigerator before marinating them. Blend quality olive oil with your favorite seasonings -- ground black pepper, chili powder or sage are good choices -- and a bit of citrus juice. 
In the fridge, you can defrost meat in the fridge, but it takes a long time, overnight. 3. In cold water, this can be done in a large bowl or in the sink, the water must be cold, and it usually takes about an hour, keep the meat in the package, if it is not packaged well put it in a freezer bag first. Best Answer: meat cannot be thawed on the counter, you have 3 options for thawing meat: 1. defrost setting on a microwave, defrost for about 5 min. then check on it, if it needs longer, flip it over and defrost a few more minutes, keep an eye on it though, as microwaves vary, and you don't want to cook it in there. 2.
A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for 1 or 2 days before cooking. Foods thawed in the refrigerator can be refrozen without cooking but there may be some loss of quality. [ Top of Page ]. Cold Water Thawing. Allow about 30 minutes per pound. There are three safe ways to thaw food: in the refrigerator, in cold water, and in the microwave oven. [ Top of Page ]. Safe Methods for Thawing. Immediately after grocery store checkout, take the frozen turkey home and store it in the freezer.
Keep the turkey in its original wrapper. Place it on a tray or in a pan to catch any juices that may leak. A thawed turkey can remain in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If necessary, a turkey that has been properly thawed in the refrigerator may be refrozen. 1 Allow 1 pound of turkey per person. 2  Keep frozen until you're ready to thaw it. 3  Turkeys can be kept frozen in the freezer indefinitely; however, cook within 1 year for best quality. 4  See Thawing Your Turkey for thawing instructions.