How to Stage Your Home with Color. E-mail to a Friend Add to Favorites Print. This webinar is best viewed in Windows Media Player version 11. Click here. Experts say that staged homes sell faster and for higher prices than those that are not, and paint color is a low-cost but effective way of showcasing your home. If your wallpaper has a distracting design or is outdated, remove it and add a fresh coat of paint for a more current, updated look. A low-sheen product will help reduce the imperfections on walls and ceilings. You can also use color to highlight the architectural details and features of
With a little pre-planning and a sense for the effect color has on the human mind, you can use browns, greens and even bolder colors to highlight your home. And don't forget about the exterior of your home: Painting the exterior can also help attract potential buyers, but be careful. While no one would think twice about painting a house in Florida peach or turquoise, chances are these colors would turn off potential buyers in a suburban Boston neighborhood.
In today’s home-selling market, a lot of effort and work goes into preparing a home for a (hopeful) quick sale. Using certain interior paint colors can send buyers out the door. With a little thought, though, paint colors can attract potential customers. Interior Paint Colors A near-surefire approach when doing interior painting is to paint the walls a neutral color like beige, and the ceiling and trim white. In fact, if you keep the trim and ceiling white, a wide range of colors will look attractive on your walls. The key to interior colors is to combine warmth with neutrality. 
If you want to sell your house in a short amount of time and with minimum hassle, it's critical that the decor is up-to-date and attractive. You can think of your home's color palette as an important backdrop; it sets the stage for the furnishings and decorations that give rooms their unique feel. Picking the right paint is a topic that causes frustration for many. Paint is relatively simple to apply or change, but the wrong color inside or out can turn a buyer off from the entire house. And don't forget about the exterior of your home: Painting the exterior can also help attract potential buyers, but be careful. While no one would think twice about painting a house in Florida peach or turquoise, chances are these colors would turn off potential buyers in a suburban Boston neighborhood.
Using the wrong paint colors can lead to problems with selling homes. In today’s home-selling world, a lot of work goes into preparing a home for a quick sale. One trend is toward using home staging professionals to assist in making sure homes show well to potential buyers. Home staging takes into consideration many factors, but few are as important as using the best paint colors.
Painting select furniture pieces is the easiest, most cost-effective way to freshen up the look of any room in your home. 1  Paint Colors that Sell Your Home Paint color is a low-cost, effective way to stage your home for sale and increase its value. 2  Learn More ». 
As a home stager, I am often asked this question. Buyers want a home that is move in ready. They don't want to have to paint or repaint so that the wall colors work with their furniture, which is why everyone says go neutral. 
Our best-selling paint colors are updated daily to give you the latest in paint color trends. Check out our most popular paint colors and find the one that’s right for you. 
Paint Colors. Share. If you're looking for exterior paint colors, or paint colors that go well with your home's interior decor, you're in the right place. There are many colors of paint suitable for your next project, and we're here to help you choose the best one. 
When you put the house on the market, you need to make it look good for the dates with potential buyers. The color of your house can make all the difference. First, there is no absolutely correct answer to the best color. Instead, the decision depends on the makeup of your home and the surrounding landscape. 