gluconeogenesis. the synthesis of glucose from noncarbohydrate sources, such as amino acids, propionate and glycerol. It occurs primarily in the liver and kidneys whenever the supply of carbohydrates is insufficient to meet the body's metabolic demands or in the rumen by the action of bacteria in well-fed ruminants. (gloo´kōnē´ōjen´əsis), n the formation of glycogen or glucose from noncarbohydrate sources (e.g., the glycogenic amino acids, glycerol, lactate, and pyruvate) by pathways mainly involving the citric acid cycle and glycolysis.
Gluconeogenesis (GNG) is a metabolic pathway that results in the generation of glucose from non-carbohydrate carbon substrates such as pyruvate, lactate, glycerol, and glucogenic amino acids. In humans the main gluconeogenic precursors are lactate, glycerol (which is a part of the triacylglycerol molecule), alanine and glutamine. Altogether, they account for over 90% of the overall gluconeogenesis.
gluconeogenesis. (gloo´kōnē´ōjen´əsis), n the formation of glycogen or glucose from noncarbohydrate sources (e.g., the glycogenic amino acids, glycerol, lactate, and pyruvate) by pathways mainly involving the citric acid cycle and glycolysis.
In vertebrates, gluconeogenesis takes place mainly in the liver and, to a lesser extent, in the cortex of the kidneys. In ruminants, this tends to be a continuous process. In many other animals, the process occurs during periods of fasting, starvation, low-carbohydrate diets, or intense exercise. In humans the main gluconeogenic precursors are lactate, glycerol (which is a part of the triacylglycerol molecule), alanine and glutamine. Altogether, they account for over 90% of the overall gluconeogenesis.
Compare: glyconeogenesis. synthesis of glucose from non-carbohydrate precursors mainly in the liver and to a smaller extent in the renal cortex. Precursors include pyruvate, lactate, glycerol and the glucogenic amino acids derived from skeletal muscle. (gloo´kōnē´ōjen´əsis), n the formation of glycogen or glucose from noncarbohydrate sources (e.g., the glycogenic amino acids, glycerol, lactate, and pyruvate) by pathways mainly involving the citric acid cycle and glycolysis.
  . Define gluconeogenesis. When does gluconeogenesis occur? What stimulates gluconeogenesis? Purpose of gluconeogenesis? When is gluconeogenesis the sole provider of serum glucose? Where does gluconeogenesis occur in the body? Which cells perform gluconeogenesis in the beginning of a fast, which cells add to this process during prolonged ... Pe Describe the Cori-cycle. The Cori-cycle describes the release of lactate from muscle (and RBC) into the blood and uptake into the liver. Liver uses this lactate for gluconeogenesis and releases glucose into the blood where it can be taken up by muscle (and RBC).
Gluconeogenesis occurs when someone does not eat for 12 hours therefore, it is caused by lack of kcals or food. When no kcals are availabe, the body tries to make glucose from … non-carbohydrate source primarily in the liver. I wrote this answer. This is the process by which the body obtains its needed glucose supplies by making it from protein rather than taking it directly from the blood sugar which is dumped into th … e bloodstream by the ingestion of sugars or the breakdown of starches. 3 people found this useful.
The liver uses primarily lactate, alanine and glycerol while the kidney uses lactate, glutamine and glycerol. Propionate is the principal substrate for gluconeogenesis in the ruminant liver, and the ruminant liver may make increased use of gluconeogenic amino acids, e.g. alanine, when glucose demand is increased. In humans the main gluconeogenic precursors are lactate, glycerol (which is a part of the triacylglycerol molecule), alanine and glutamine. Altogether, they account for over 90% of the overall gluconeogenesis.
Compare gluconeogenesis to the alanine-glucose cycle. The Alanine-glucose cycle describes the release of alanine from the muscle into the blood and the usage of alanine in the liver for gluconeogenesis. [Alanine is formed in muscle using pyruvate and in the liver, alanine is used to form pyruvate]. Describe the Cori-cycle. The Cori-cycle describes the release of lactate from muscle (and RBC) into the blood and uptake into the liver. Liver uses this lactate for gluconeogenesis and releases glucose into the blood where it can be taken up by muscle (and RBC).
1 The final reaction of gluconeogenesis, the formation of glucose, occurs in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum, where glucose-6-phosphate is hydrolyzed by glucose-6-phosphatase to produce glucose and release an inorganic phosphate. In humans the main gluconeogenic precursors are lactate, glycerol (which is a part of the triacylglycerol molecule), alanine and glutamine. Altogether, they account for over 90% of the overall gluconeogenesis.