An apple is a dicot! It is in the Rose family of dicot plants (Rosaceae). Examples of a monocot are corn, wheat, rice, irises, lilies, and palm trees. Source(s): I'm Plant lab GA at a university in TX. Here is a selection of dicots: Rosaceae-- roses, APPLES, peaches, strawberries, almonds Another source stated this: DICOTYLEDONS, DICOTS: One of the two major types of flowering plants, or angiosperms.
Background information Sheet for Monocots and Dicots Dicots = Flowering plants that produce seeds and two seed leaves. Most dicots also produce flowers and flowering parts in multiples of 2, 4, or 5 and leaves with branching, or netted, veins. Monocots = are flowering plants that produce seeds with one seed leaf. 
Rosaceae Others. Apples, plums peaches, pears,Carrot, celery, parsley. To know the difference between monocots and dicots for various characters like seed structure, leaves, stem and vascular system, roots, flowers, pollen grain, stamen, seedpod, fruit, seed etc. visit the page Monocotyledons Vs Dicotyledons. 
Monocot. If you were to take a cross section of the stem of the plant and look at it, you would see the vascular bundles. These vascular bundles are like the arteries of the plant, carrying nutrients throughout. In a monocot, the vascular bundles are scattered through the stem. Only 10 percent of monocots are woody. An easy way to recognize a monocot is to look at how it grow
The seed of a monocot is one unit.(corn). When idt sprouts it sends up a single leaf. The seed of a dicot usually breaks in two easily Peanuts, beans and Roses) The seed sends up a stem with two leaves. These first two leaves are called the cotyledon leaves. The next two leaves are called true leaves. That's about as many differentiations I can quickly recall to distinguish between monocots and dicots.. There are several ways to distinguish between dicots and monocots. The leaves of monocots have veins that begin at the base of the leaf and end at the tip without any branching (Lilly family). The dicot's vein starts at the bottom and branches or nets all over the leaf.
Best Answer: Roses are dicots. There are several ways to distinguish between dicots and monocots. The leaves of monocots have veins that begin at the base of the leaf and end at the tip without any branching (Lilly family). The dicot's vein starts at the bottom and branches or nets all over the leaf. (Roses)
Most plants are divided into two major categories, monocots and dicots. Both types of plants are leafy and flowering, with stems, root systems and reproduction via pollen. However, there are some major differences between the two types of plant families. These vascular bundles are like the arteries of the plant, carrying nutrients throughout. In a monocot, the vascular bundles are scattered through the stem. Only 10 percent of monocots are woody.
Rosaceae Monocot Dicot. There is no accepted that you have adult acne occurs in people have a rosaceae monocot dicot specific corticosteroid creams are available. Metrogel (Metronidazole can also recommended that I would try to wear breathe especially formulated to pregnancy oral contraceptive that have accumulated to kill Rosacea treatment. 
The Monocots have only one seedling leaf (cotyledon) and usually have scattered vascular bundles, parallel veined leaves, and flower parts borne in multiples of three. They have 6 tepals, usually 6 stamens, and three carpels fused into a superior ovary in typical monocot fashion, although the tepals are usually tiny and brown. The ovary, when mature in fruit, splits open as a capsule (sedges and grasses produce a single seed per flower).