A chaise longue (English /ˌʃeɪz ˈlɒŋ/ ; [ʃɛz lɔ̃ɡ] , long chair) is an upholstered sofa in the shape of a chair that is long enough to support the legs. In modern French the term chaise longue can refer to any long reclining chair such as a deckchair. A literal translation in English is long chair. In the United States the term lounge chair is also used to refer to any long reclining chair. In the United States, chaise longue is often written and pronounced as  chaise lounge , a 19th century folk anagrammatic adaptation of the term.
(Source). The Ducking Lounge Chair is true to its name as it appears to be long enough, measuring 2 meters. Made from walnut and built into a certain degree of curvature, the lounge chair is indeed one of the most relaxing chairs both indoors and outdoors. 
1 Chaise a bureau is a Rococo style of chair, created during the first half of the 18th century, constructed so it could sit in a corner of a room (there is one leg directly in the back and one directly in the front, and then one leg on each side). 1 Campeche chair, a 19th-century Mexican lounge chair, popular in Latin America, the Caribbean, and the American South. 2  It has X-shaped sides and a sling seat and back made of leather, cane or wood slats.
[link]. A wood chaise lounge, designed by Genovese David Conti, is supported by a structure of letters that spell out the word “Design”. [link]. Chaise longue, also known as “chaise lounge” or “lounge chair” in North America, is a chair that is long enough to support the legs. Chumy Long Chair. Chumy is a chaise lounger with a simple design, a center curve that floats in mid air provides enhanced seat comfort and flexibility. Space underneath provide storage for magazines or towels.
Types of Chairs. This list of chair types gathers together pictures of and names for all the major types of chairs into one place, as an easy interior decorating resource. Types of chairs to aid in selecting furniture for the home or office. 
1 The back is usually low and the chair usually has armrests. 2  The stereotypical image of a movie director on location includes one of these chairs, hence the name. 3  Victor Papanek describes this chair as an excellent design in his book Design for the Real World as it is simple and ideally suited to its function. 1 Campeche chair, a 19th-century Mexican lounge chair, popular in Latin America, the Caribbean, and the American South. 2  It has X-shaped sides and a sling seat and back made of leather, cane or wood slats.
There are so many different types of chairs. Wing chairs, club chairs, rocking chairs, and that is just to name a few. There is a chair to fit every need and every kind of space, so it is best to look at all the different options you have before deciding on one. 1. Chair and a Half. A chair and a half is a very useful piece of furniture, being slightly larger than a chair and smaller than a loveseat. The width of a chair and half makes it an ideal piece of furniture for lounging. The chair featured here is modern in style, but you can find one in any style. It may have a tight back and a tight seat, or have loose cushions for the back and seat. It could also have a tight back with a loose seat
A chaise chair, most commonly called a chaise lounge, is a chair which has an extended seat in order for the feet to be placed on it. The name is derived from the French chaise longue which means long chair.. The ancestors of the chaise chair were depicted in ancient artwork from both Egyptian and Grecian sources. There are three basic style types of chaise chairs. The first is a cross between a daybed and a chair. It has an extended back that forms an L-shape. The single arm rest begins at the same level as the back and tapers down to the feet. The second kind of chaise has a back and extended seat with no arm rests.
1 Chaise longue (French for long chair) is a chair with a seat long enough to completely support its user's legs. 2  In the U.S., it is often mistakenly referred to as a 'chaise lounge'. 3  Similar, if not identical to, a day bed, fainting couch, or recamier.  récamier 1 Campeche chair, a 19th-century Mexican lounge chair, popular in Latin America, the Caribbean, and the American South. 2  It has X-shaped sides and a sling seat and back made of leather, cane or wood slats.