Etymology & Historical Origin-Anya. Anya is the Russian diminutive of Anna. Anna is the Latin variant of the Hebrew girl’s name Hannah (meaning “God has favored me”). The name Hannah comes from the Bible (1 Samuel 1:2). She is the mother of the great Israeli prophet Samuel. 
Anya Rozova. an American fashion model. Rozova was the runner-up of the tenth cycle of America's Next Top Model. She has changed her surname from Kop to Rozova, as it is her Russian surname, after the conclusion of the cycle.[2].Rozova was the runner-up of the tenth cycle of America's Next Top Model. Self-awareness test of the baby. Performing the self-awareness test of the baby is quite simple. If you put a red dot on the baby’s forehead and show him the mirror, notice what he does. If they rub the dot, they are aware, else not.
Presented below is the birth name popularity of Anya for girls. Anya was first listed in 1980-1989 and reached its top rank of #362 in the U.S. in the year 2009, and is currently at #472. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). Below is a graphed comparison of the popularity of Anya and related names. Anya /anya/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Anya is He (God) has favored me. Russian diminutive of Anna, from Hannah. In Sanskrit and Hindi, Anya means inexhaustibility or other; another person
Anya. Meaning of the name Anya. Listen and learn how to pronounce Anya so you can get the correct pronunciation for this girl name. MEANING: Ancient Irish name from the noun aine that means “splendor, radiance, brilliance.” Aine is connected with fruitfulness and prosperity. Meaning of the name Anya. MEANING: Ancient Irish name from the noun aine that means “splendor, radiance, brilliance.” Aine is connected with fruitfulness and prosperity. The queen of the Munster fairies was called Aine as was one of the wives of Fionn Mac Cool (read the legend)
This is the name of the main character of the Cathy Cassidy book, Angel Cake. -- Hushpuppy 4/12/2012. On the American television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Anya Jenkins is a main character (played by actress Emma Caulfield). -- Anonymous User 7/19/2012. My sister is called Anya and people nickname her annie. I prefer Anya much better though but people don't seem to like it much.
Meaning: The Russian name Anya means-a form of Anna. 
Meaning of Anya. English name. In English, the name Anya means-Variant of Anna. British novelist Anya Seton.. Other origins for the name Anya include-English, Russian.The name Anya is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Anna. British novelist Anya Seton