A perfect Apgar score of 10 means an infant is in the best possible condition. An infant with an Apgar score of 0-3 needs immediate resuscitation. It is important to note that diligent care of the newborn is an immediate response to the current status of the infant. It is inappropriate to wait until Apgar scores are obtained to begin or continue to address the needs of the neonate. What does a persistently low Apgar score mean? The persistence of low (0-3) Apgar scores at 20 minutes of age is predictive of high rates of morbidity (disease) and mortality (death).
Apgar score. Apgar is a quick test performed on a baby at 1 and 5 minutes after birth. The 1-minute score determines how well the baby tolerated the birthing process. The 5-minute score tells the doctor how well the baby is doing outside the mother's womb. In rare cases, the test will be done 10 minutes after birth. Definition. Apgar is a quick test performed on a baby at 1 and 5 minutes after birth. The 1-minute score determines how well the baby tolerated the birthing process. The 5-minute score tells the doctor how well the baby is doing outside the mother's womb. In rare cases, the test will be done 10 minutes after birth.
Apgar score: An objective score of the condition of a baby after birth. This score is determined by scoring the heart rate, respiratory effort, muscle tone, skin color, and response to a catheter in the nostril. A child with a score of 0 to 3 needs immediate resuscitation. The Apgar score is often repeated 5 minutes after birth, and in the event of a difficult resuscitation, the Apgar score may be done again at 10, 15, and 20 minutes.
A score of 8 or higher indicates the infant is in good condition. An Apgar score of 10 is unusual. Very few newborns are completely pink at 1 minute after birth and most continue to have some blueness of the extremities (acrocyanosis) at 5 minutes. If the score is lower than 8, it indicates the infant needs assistance. If it is below 5, immediate assistance is needed.
Mind map showing summary for the Apgar score. The test is generally done at one and five minutes after birth, and may be repeated later if the score is and remains low. Scores 7 and above are generally normal, 4 to 6 fairly low, and 3 and below are generally regarded as critically low. Apgar was an anesthesiologist who developed the score in order to ascertain the effects of obstetric anesthesia on babies. The Apgar scale is determined by evaluating the newborn baby on five simple criteria on a scale from zero to two, then summing up the five values thus obtained.
About the Apgar Score The Apgar score, the very first test given to a newborn, occurs in the delivery or birthing room right after the baby's birth. The test was designed to quickly evaluate a newborn's physical condition and to see if there's an immediate need for extra medical or emergency care. Sometimes, if there are concerns about the baby's condition or the score at 5 minutes is low, the test may be scored for a third time at 10 minutes after birth. Five factors are used to evaluate the baby's condition and each factor is scored on a scale of 0 to 2, with 2 being the best score:
At 5 minutes after birth, the Apgar score is recalculated. If a baby's score was low at first and hasn't improved, or there are other concerns, the doctors and nurses will continue any necessary medical care and will closely monitor the baby. Sometimes, if there are concerns about the baby's condition or the score at 5 minutes is low, the test may be scored for a third time at 10 minutes after birth. Five factors are used to evaluate the baby's condition and each factor is scored on a scale of 0 to 2, with 2 being the best score:
The Apgar score is a simple assessment of how a baby is doing at birth, which helps determine whether your newborn is ready to meet the world without additional medical assistance. Your practitioner will do this quick evaluation one minute and five minutes after your baby is born. 
The Apgar score isn't designed to predict your baby's long-term health or development (ACOG 2006) . Remember, if your baby has a low score at five minutes she may still be perfectly healthy, as most babies are. The Apgar score is only one measure of your newborn's health. 