If so, sear the steak on each side on high heat. Turn off one side of the grill and put the steak on that side. Turn the heat on the other side of the grill to LOW. Close the lid. Do not peek. Let the steak cook for about 15 minutes. If you are in very cold weather, turn the burner on MEDIUM rather than LOW. You cook that steak any way you want and do not let ppl tell you that you might as well throw your money away if you want your steak well done. It's your steak and you eat it the way you want to. Some ppl don't like to hear 'moo' when they cut into their meat.
Tags: bbq recipes,grilling recipes,how to cook a well done steak,labor day,Labor Day recipes,steak doneness guide,steak grilling tips,steak recipes,summer recipes,well done steak recipes,drew snyder,the savory,thesavory. Grab video code: Transcript. Posted: 07/16/2014 | Views: 419,359 | Duration: 01:16. The Savory’s Chef Drew shows us how to cook a proper well-done steak on the grill. 
Put the steak on the grill: Place the steak on the grate, close the lid, and do not move the steak until it is well marked and has a light char, about 3 minutes. Flip the steak: Use the tongs to flip the steak. Baste with butter: Dip the herb brush in the butter and brush over the hot surface of the steak. 
If you are looking for a medium rare 1-inch thick steak our cooking times are going to be one minute (four units of one minute). If you want your steak medium well or well done, turn down the heat now to a medium high heat (but leave it hot for the start). Your cooking times are going to be two minutes. If using a thicker steak (but under 2-inches) then the cooking times are going to be 1 1/2 minutes or 3 minutes for medium well or well. If your steak is less than 3/4-inch thick (but more than 1/2-inch) the cooking times are going to be 45 seconds or 1 minute for medium well to well.
1 Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 2  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. 3  Always use tongs to handle steak as they won't pierce the meat, allowing the juices to escape. Place your steak into pan and time 30 seconds, then turn the steak. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes.
A Well Done steak is the hardest to cook. The secret is to do it low and slow. It's the only way to prevent burning while fully cooking it through the middle. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side. Most people will tell you that this is the steak for people who don't like steak. While there is some truth to that, it is a popular request so, any good griller needs to know how to do it. The meat should be soft to the touch, much like the raw meat, but browned over the surface. This is the steak for the true carnivore who wants something nearly raw, but gets it cooked (as little as possible) to be polite. For a 1-inch steak grill as hot as you can and: 1  Place steak on grill for 5 minutes.
This steak should feel solid to the touch. A Well Done steak is the hardest to cook. The secret is to do it low and slow. It's the only way to prevent burning while fully cooking it through the middle. Grill this steak over a medium heat between 10 and 12 minutes per side. Slide the probe into the side of the steak until it reaches the middle. A rare steak cooks to 140 degrees; medium rare to 145, medium to 160, and well done cooks to 170 degrees. Pull your steak when it’s five degrees below the desired temperature and let it rest for 10 minutes to get the perfect degree of doneness.
1 Rather than oiling the pan, brush the steak with oil to prevent it sticking. 2  Cook a 2cm-thick piece of steak for 2-3 minutes each side for rare, 4 minutes each side for medium, and 5-6 minutes each side for well-done. 3  Turn the steak only once, otherwise it will dry out. Place your steak into pan and time 30 seconds, then turn the steak. again time 30 seconds then turn it. Continue to turn steak every 30 seconds until you get rare medium or well done. once cooked let meat rest for 3 minutes.