If your sore throat is associated with a fine, sandpaper-like pink rash on the skin, it could be scarlet fever, which is definitely associated with the bacteria that causes strep throat. If this occurs, see a doctor immediately. Scarlet fever is treated with antibiotics. 
Visit our PICTURES OF RASHES page. A doctor confirms a strep throat infection by lightly swabbing the throat area of the patient. The swap is sent off for analysis and results are returned within one to two days. The skin rash that appears in conjunction with a strep throat problem is a symptom of scarlet fever. Twelve to 48 hours after the strep throat symptoms appear, the scarlet fever rash may become visible on the skin. It is believed that the strep rash is a result of an allergic skin reaction to the toxins that are created by the strep bacteria. The rash with strep or Scarlet fever usually affects children in the 5 to 15 year old age group. However, nowadays even though strep throat is still very common, scarlet fever is less frequently encountered. Visit the skin rash pictures resource for more rash information.
Strep Rash (or Scarlet Fever) is actually a very common ‘side effect’ of Strep Throat that is sometimes mistaken for other illnesses. So let’s talk about Strep Rash and what you can do to determine if your child has it and what you can do to help relieve the symptoms. When we talk about Strep Rash, this is actually the skin rash that can develop in those with Strep Throat and the symptoms that accompany the rash can be very uncomfortable to young children. SYMPTOMS OF STREP RASH. Strep Rash (ie.
One less common sign of strep is a rough, sandpaper-like rash. It starts on your neck and chest, then spreads to the rest of your body. When this happens, the infection is known as scarlet fever. It looks scary, but it will start to fade after a few days. An infection called Group A Streptococcus causes strep. A virus is usually to blame for a simple sore throat. Antibiotics can ease strep symptoms, get rid of it faster, and lower the risk of complications. Without treatment, the infection can affect your heart or other organs. It's rare, but it can lead to serious illnes
you voted. Answer by soapjunkie (581). Scarlet fever is strep throat with a rash that is commonly seen in school-aged children. It can begin with the child experiencing swollen glands, and then progress into a red rash on the body with a tough sandpaper feeling to it. A strep rash consists of tiny red pimples all over the body. They are rough to the touch and often described as being like sand paper. The skin can also look red as if sunburned. The rash usually starts on the trunk of the body and then spreads to limbs and other areas. It can last seven to ten days.
The more cold symptoms you have, the less likely it is that your sore throat is a strep infection. In some cases of strep infection, a skin rash develops and spreads over the neck and chest and eventually over the whole body. The rash feels rough like sandpaper. This condition is called scarlet fever. Common symptoms of strep throat in children and adults include: 1  Severe and sudden sore throat without coughing, sneezing, or other cold symptoms. 2  Pain or difficulty with swallowing. 3  Fever over 101°F (38.3°C) .
Infection: Genital Strep. What it looks like: Pimples or a bright-red rash, possibly with a white coating, in the genital area. When strep throat or impetigo is going around, kids can spread the bacteria below the belt. Anal strep causes painful bowel movements, and your child might complain of a sore bottom. Infection: Scarlet Fever. What it looks like: A red, sandpapery rash on the torso (it usually shows up in the groin and underarms) that's caused by the toxins produced by strep bacteria. Scarlet fever may accompany strep throat.
The strep skin rash consists of very fine red pimples all over the body. The pimples feel rough to the touch and the skin is often described as having a fine sandpaper type texture or fine goose bumps. The skin may also appear very red, similar to the appearance of a sunburn. The rash with strep or Scarlet fever usually affects children in the 5 to 15 year old age group. However, nowadays even though strep throat is still very common, scarlet fever is less frequently encountered. Visit the skin rash pictures resource for more rash information.