Making the world better, one answer at a time. The vascular system in plants have two components: xylem and pholem. The xylem helps in the transport of water absorbed through roots to all the aerial parts of the plant and the phloem helps in transporting the manufactured food from leaves to all other parts of the plant. There are two types of vascular tissue in a plant. Phloem, which conveys food from the leaves to the rest of the plant, and xylem which conveys water from the roots to the res … t
Noun. 1. vascular tissue-tissue that conducts water and nutrients through the plant body in higher plants. vascular system-the vessels and tissue that carry or circulate fluids such as blood or lymph or sap through the body of an animal or plant. n. 1. (Botany) tissue of higher plants consisting mainly of xylem and phloem and occurring as a continuous system throughout the plant: it conducts water, mineral salts, and synthesized food substances and provides mechanical support.
vascular tissue. n. 1. (Botany) tissue of higher plants consisting mainly of xylem and phloem and occurring as a continuous system throughout the plant: it conducts water, mineral salts, and synthesized food substances and provides mechanical support.
Xylem is the type of vascular tissue that moves water and dissolved nutrients from the roots to the leaves. The xylem are … one-way roads, however. No particles can move down the tree through the xylem. Phloem are the tubes in plants responsible for transporting sugars from the leaves to the roots and vice-versa. Split and merge into it. Answer by Jimbo Wage. Confidence votes 1.2K. The vascular tissue system is one of three tissue systems that make up a plant, the other two tissue systems or ground and dermal, with dermal tissue being the outer layer and the ground tissue making up most of the inside of a plant.
Vascular tissue is found in all of a plant's vegetative organs-that is, the roots, stems, and leaves. Xylem and phloem start out as special type of tissue called cambium. You can think of cambium tissue cells as similar to stem cells-when they divide, they have the ability to become different kinds of tissue. The main difference between xylem and phloem is that xylem transports water, and phloem transports food. Here's a trick to help you remember: phloem carries food because they both start with an 'f' sound! Xylem conducts water from the roots, through the shoots, and out of the plant.
Vascular plants (from Latin vasculum: duct), also known as tracheophytes (from the equivalent Greek term trachea) and also higher plants, form a large group of plants that are defined as those land plants that have lignified tissues (the xylem) for conducting water and minerals throughout the plant. 1 Vascular plants have vascular tissues which distribute resources through the plant. 2  This feature allows vascular plants to evolve to a larger size than non-vascular plants, which lack these specialized conducting tissues and are therefore restricted to relatively small sizes.
cambium-a formative one-cell layer of tissue between xylem and phloem in most vascular plants that is responsible for secondary growth. fibrovascular bundle, vascular bundle, vascular strand-a unit strand of the vascular system in stems and leaves of higher plants consisting essentially of xylem and phloem. n. 1. (Botany) tissue of higher plants consisting mainly of xylem and phloem and occurring as a continuous system throughout the plant: it conducts water, mineral salts, and synthesized food substances and provides mechanical support.
The primary components of vascular tissue are the xylem and phloem. These two tissues transport fluid and nutrients internally. There are also two meristems associated with vascular tissue: the vascular cambium and the cork cambium. All the vascular tissues within a particular plant together constitute the vascular tissue system of that plant. The cells in vascular tissue are typically long and slender. Since the xylem and phloem function in the conduction of water, minerals, and nutrients throughout the plant, it is not surprising that their form should be similar to pipes. The vascular tissue in plants is arranged in long, discrete strands called vascular bundles. These bundles include both xylem and phloem, as well as supporting and protective cells.