Averages for San Juan in December. Puerto Rico, an island in the northeastern Caribbean, is hugely popular in the winter months due to its tropical climate, which attracts a huge number of tourists each year, after the winter sun.
San Juan has a tropical rainforest climate with no dry season. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (48%), forests (30%), grasslands (12%), marshes (6%), and croplands (3%).
San Juan: Annual Weather Averages. June is the hottest month in San Juan with an average temperature of 28°C (82°F) and the coldest is January at 25°C (77°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 9 in October. The wettest month is November with an average of 157mm of rain.
This report describes the typical weather at the Luis Munoz Muñoz Marin Marín (International Airport, San Juan) puerto rico weather station over the course of An. Average december it is based on the historical records from 1992. to 2012
The highest average temperature in San Juan Capistrano is August at 71.7 degrees. The coldest average temperature in San Juan Capistrano is December at 55.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in San Juan Capistrano occurs in February with 2.6 inches. The San Juan Capistrano weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading...
This report describes the typical weather at the Luis Munoz Muñoz Marin Marín (International Airport, San Juan) puerto rico weather station over the course of An. Average december it is based on the historical records from 1992. To 2012 earlier records are either unavailable. or unreliable
December Weather in Puerto Rico. The tables below give the normal December temperatures and rainfall for cities and popular vacation spots in Puerto Rico. There's also information here on this month's average humidity and ocean temperature at San Juan.
Over the course of December typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 16 mph (calm to moderate breeze), rarely exceeding 19 mph (fresh breeze). The highest average wind speed of 8 mph (light breeze) occurs around December 30, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 16 mph (moderate breeze).