A common misconception about Quink is that it was intended primarily for the Parker 51, which generated over 400 million dollars in sales during its thirty-year history. Although Quink was indeed ideal for use with the 51, Parker's other pens of this generation were just as capable of using it. The Parker 51 was only made available in 1941, ten years after Quink's development.
Quink (a portmanteau word from 'quick' and 'ink') is a fountain pen ink developed by the Parker Pen Company. The ink was novel for using isopropyl alcohol as a solvent, which dried by absorption rather than evaporation of previous water-based inks. However the composition of the ink damaged some pen barrels and caps. Although Quink was indeed ideal for use with the 51, Parker's other pens of this generation were just as capable of using it. The Parker 51 was only made available in 1941, ten years after Quink's development.
This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Since Quink's debut in 1978, this remarkable Dutch vocal ensemble has risen to the top of its field and is invited to perform on prestigious concert series around the world. The ensemble is often heard on radio, and is frequently invited to appear on national and international TV. Quink is a welcome guest at music festivals all over the world. Quink's first United States tour in 1985 was so artistically successful that it often tours the U.S. twice a year. Quink made its Italian debut tour in 1987. In the spring of 1998, Quink appeared in festivals in Tel Aviv and Singapore
Quink (Parker). Quink is Parker’s own house brand. Parker was apparently a little less worried about it being mistaken for old fashioned pen-dissolving ink than Sheaffer was, as they were at least willing to rhyme with the distressing substance; their advertising did speak of it as “writing fluid”, though. 
Quink. Parker has been making inks for some 60+ years. Their Quink line is made in France. Available in blue, blue-black and black. 1  Blue-Black-varies by dye lot, the colour is fairly dark, flow good, performs well in both broad and medium nib pens. 2  Blue-a colour of blue that won't have anyone look twice at your document! 3  Black-mixed reviews on this ink. 4  Green-light tone to the colour. 5  Red-medium colour, very little orange tone.
In 1983 Quink received its first international recognition when the group was named finalist in a major European music competition. Since then they have been invited to perform in important concert series at home and abroad. The ensemble is often heard on radio, and is frequently invited to appear on national and international TV. Quink is a welcome guest at music festivals all over the world. Quink's first United States tour in 1985 was so artistically successful that it often tours the U.S. twice a year. Quink made its Italian debut tour in 1987. In the spring of 1998, Quink appeared in festivals in Tel Aviv and Singapore
The Quink Vocal Ensemble is one of the best vocal groups in the world. Their repertoire includes a cappella works ranging from the early Renaissance to contemporary music. Quink has toured the U.S. at least once a year since 1985 and recorded many albums for Telarc. The ensemble is often heard on radio, and is frequently invited to appear on national and international TV. Quink is a welcome guest at music festivals all over the world. Quink's first United States tour in 1985 was so artistically successful that it often tours the U.S. twice a year. Quink made its Italian debut tour in 1987. In the spring of 1998, Quink appeared in festivals in Tel Aviv and Singapore
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 