Muscle Tissue. If it contracts, it's muscle: Muscle tissue is categorized on the basis of a functional property: the ability of its cells to contract. In muscle tissue, the bulk of the cytoplasmic volume consists of the contractile protein fibrils actin and myosin. Skeletal muscle Skeletal muscle constitutes the muscle that is attached to the skeleton and controls motor movements and posture. There are a few instances where this type of muscle is restricted to soft tissues: the tongue, pharynx, diaphragm and upper part of the esophagus.
Neuromuscular Junction and Activation of Skeletal Muscle Cells. Skeletal muscle cells are innervated by motor neurons. A motor unit is defined as the neuron and the fibers it supplies. Some motor neurons innervate one or a few muscle cells whereas other motor neurons can innervate hundreds of muscle cells. 
The three types of muscle: Three types of muscle tissue can be identified histologically: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. The fibres of skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle exhibit cross striations at the light microscope level and they are both referred to as striated muscle. Skeletal muscle Skeletal muscle constitutes the muscle that is attached to the skeleton and controls motor movements and posture. There are a few instances where this type of muscle is restricted to soft tissues: the tongue, pharynx, diaphragm and upper part of the esophagus.
Cardiac muscle cells are not as long as skeletal muscles cells and often are branched cells. Cardiac muscle cells may be mononucleated or binucleated. In either case the nuclei are located centrally in the cell. Cardiac muscle is also striated. 
Cardiac muscle is the muscle that your heart uses, this type of muscle never tires, skeletal muscle is like the muscle you use to contract your arm, and smooth muscle is the m … uscle your stomache and other similair organs use to push food through your system. Skeletal muscles are striated and are the muscles that are in voluntary control. These include biceps(arm), pectoralis major(chest) and other muscles that you can move. These muscles are striated and has many nuclei. Smooth muscles are not striated and are the muscles that are not
Overview of Muscle Tissues. Types of Muscle Tissue. Skeletal muscle is associated with the bony skeleton, and consists of large cells that bear striations and are controlled voluntarily. Cardiac muscle occurs only in the heart, and consists of small cells that are striated and under involuntary control. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, and consists of small elongated cells that are not striated and are under involuntary control. Special Characteristics of Muscle Tissue. Excitability, or irritability, is the ability to receive and respond to a stimulus.
Smooth muscle is an involuntary non-striated muscle. It is divided into two subgroups; the single-unit (unitary) and multiunit smooth muscle. Within single-unit cells, the whole bundle or sheet contracts as a syncytium (i.e. a multinucleate mass of cytoplasm that is not separated into cells). 
Introduction and Objectives Muscle tissue consists of cells specialized for contraction. All muscle cells have filamentous proteins composed of either actin or myosin present in thin filaments (actin) and thick filaments (myosin). Skeletal muscle cells. are different from both smooth and cardiac muscle cells because each cell has many nuclei and. all the nuclei are located at the peripheral aspect of the cell just beneath the cell membrane. While skeletal muscle cells and cardiac muscle cells both have striations, the striations of.
Smooth muscles are of two major types known as single unit, aka unitary, smooth muscles and multi-unit smooth muscles. The single unit smooth muscles contract and relax together, as the nerve impulse excites only one muscle cell, and that is passed on to other cells through gap junctions. 
muscle. the contractile tissue that effects the movement of and within the body. Muscle tissue in the higher animals is classified as striated, smooth, or cardiac, according to its structure and function. Striated, or skeletal, muscle forms the bulk of the body's muscle tissue and gives the body its general shape. 