The main account of Hezekiah's reign is found in 2 Kings 18–20, Isaiah 36–39, and 2 Chronicles 29–32 of the Hebrew Bible. Proverbs 25:1 mentions that it is a collection of King Solomon's proverbs that were copied. by the officials of King Hezekiah of Judah. The narrative of Hezekiah's sickness and miraculous recovery is found in 2 Kings 20:1, 2 Chronicles 32:24, Isaiah 38:1. Various ambassadors came to congratulate him on his recovery, among them from Merodach-baladan, the king of Babylon (2 Chronicles 32:23; 2 Kings 20:12).
Son of Ahaz and Abi or Abijah; ascended the throne at the age of twenty-five and reigned twenty-nine years (II Kings xviii. 1-2; II Chron. xxix. 1). Hezekiah was the opposite of his father, Ahaz; and no king of Judah, among either his predecessors or his successors, could, it is said, be compared to him (II Kings xviii. 
Hezekiah was the son of King Ahaz and Abijah. His mother, Abijah (also called Abi), was a daughter of the high priest Zechariah. Based on Thiele's dating, Hezekiah was born in c. 741 BC. The narrative of Hezekiah's sickness and miraculous recovery is found in 2 Kings 20:1, 2 Chronicles 32:24, Isaiah 38:1. Various ambassadors came to congratulate him on his recovery, among them from Merodach-baladan, the king of Babylon (2 Chronicles 32:23; 2 Kings 20:12).
Bishop Hezekiah Walker (born December 24, 1962) is a popular American gospel music artist and pastor of prominent Brooklyn New York megachurch, Love Fellowship Tabernacle. Walker has released several albums on Benson Records and Verity Records as Hezekiah Walker & The Love Fellowship Crusade Choir. 
The Life & Times of Hezekiah. Hezekiah, son of Ahaz was born during the reign of his grandfather Jotham in 741 BC. Scripture tells us little about Jotham's reign, except that he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord. 
Hezekiah was the son of King Ahaz and a young woman named Abi. Scandalously, his father was only eleven years old when he was born. Many religious commentators have remarked on Hezekiah being such a good king after having come from such a bad father. But they all miss an essential point: that Ahaz cannot be said to have had any role in the upbringing of his son. In the Thiele chronology, Manasseh was born eight or nine years before Hezekiah's illness and was therefore a child during the invasion, and became viceroy of the kingdom three years after Sennacherib's withdrawal.
Hezekiah was the son of a unique child marriage between King Ahaz and Abi, daughter of high priest Zechariah II. His father was only eleven years old when he was born. At the age of twenty-five, Hezekiah accepted the viceroyalty from his father in the last year of Ahaz ' reign (Viceroy from::1 Abib 3277 AM). Before the year was out, Ahaz was dead and Hezekiah was in command. He would hold that command for twenty-nine years.
· Ahaz was 20 when he began to reign, and reigned for 16 years, which indicates that he ceased reigning when he was only 36. Yet his son Hezekiah was 25 years old when he began to reign, which indicates that Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah when Ahaz was 11 years old. 1  The Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges states, “This makes Hezekiah to have been born when his father was extremely young. 2  He ascended the throne at twenty-five. Ahaz-a Young Father. “Ahaz was twenty years old when he became king, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.” (2 Kings 16:2 NKJV) “Hezekiah the son of Ahaz, king of Judah, began to reign. He was twenty-five years old when he became king.” (2 Kings 18:1 NKJV). Ahaz became the father of Hezekiah when Ahaz was TEN or ELEVEN years old
According to the Hebrew Bible, Hezekiah witnessed the destruction of the northern Kingdom of Israel by Sargon 's Assyrians in c. 720 BC and was king of Judah during the invasion and siege of Jerusalem by Sennacherib in 701 BC. The narrative of Hezekiah's sickness and miraculous recovery is found in 2 Kings 20:1, 2 Chronicles 32:24, Isaiah 38:1. Various ambassadors came to congratulate him on his recovery, among them from Merodach-baladan, the king of Babylon (2 Chronicles 32:23; 2 Kings 20:12).