The use of a business trust, also called a Massachusetts trust or a common-law trust, originated years ago to circumvent restrictions imposed upon corporate acquisition and development of real estate while achieving the limited liability aspect of a corporation. A business trust is considered a corporation for purposes of federal Income Tax and similarly under various state income tax laws.
A Massachusetts Business Trust (MBT) is a legal trust set up for the purposes of business, but not necessarily one that is operated in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. (December 2010). A Massachusetts Business Trust (MBT) is a legal trust set up for the purposes of business, but not necessarily one that is operated in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. They may also be referred to as an unincorporated business organization or UBO.
A business trust, also called a Massachusetts business trust, is an unincorporated entity that a corporation or partnership creates to stand as a proxy for certain business operations. Simple Trust. When the parent company does not retain direct management of its business trust, the IRS looks to see if the trust meets the definition of a simple trust. It does so by looking at the trust instrument, which is the document that the parent company uses to create the trust.
DEFINITION of 'Trust Company'. A legal entity that acts as fiduciary, agent or trustee on behalf of a person or business entity for the purpose of administration, management and the eventual transfer of assets to a beneficial party.
An unincorporated business organization created by a legal document, a declaration of trust, and used in place of a corporation or partnership for the transaction of various kinds of business with limited liability. A business trust is considered a corporation for purposes of federal Income Tax and similarly under various state income tax laws.
Definition. Commercial organization managed by appointed trustees (who hold the title to the business ' property) for the benefit of one or more beneficiaries. A business trust is treated as a legal entity by the tax authorities and must have (1) a business purpose, and (2) must function as a business.
A legal trust set up for the purposes of business, but not necessarily one that is operated in The Commonwealth of Massachusetts. They may also be referred to as an unincorporated business organization or UBO. 
Business Trust Law & Legal Definition. Business trust is a form of business organization which is similar to a corporation, in which investors receive transferable certificates of beneficial interest. In some states, a business trust is subject to the laws of trusts whereas in other states the laws of corporations or partnerships govern its existence. For purposes of federal Income Tax laws and state income tax laws a business trust is considered as a corporation
A business trust is similar to a traditional trust in that its trustees are given legal title to the trust property to administer it for the advantage of its beneficiaries who hold equitable title to it. A business trust is considered a corporation for purposes of federal Income Tax and similarly under various state income tax laws.