In 1922, sisters Constance Talmadge and Norma Talmadge, Joseph Schenck and film director Edward Jose held a contest in England to find a new leading lady. Leahy's role was not given much attention, and she never acted again. Following this one film, Leahy chose to remain in California and get married, instead of returning to England. She later became an interior decorator and grew to despise the movie industry. She apparently committed suicide in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 64
Helen Marie Leahy. Obituary. Helen Marie LeahyAGE: 90 • LincroftHelen Marie Leahy, 90 years of age, of Lincroft, passed away at her home on Tuesday, Feb. 5, 2013, surrounded by her loving family. She was a wonderful mother and grandmother, with a gentle heart and ready smile coupled with a great sense of humor. She was the CFO for her husband's company, The Russ Leahy Co., Inc. Helen was a communicant of St. Leo the Great R.C. Church, Lincroft, where she was a member of the Rosary Altar Society.
Margaret Leahy (17 August 1902 – 17 February 1967) was a British actress. After winning a beauty contest, Leahy went on to make only one film in her very short-lived film career. Leahy's role was not given much attention, and she never acted again. Following this one film, Leahy chose to remain in California and get married, instead of returning to England. She later became an interior decorator and grew to despise the movie industry. She apparently committed suicide in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 64
Please try again later. This is a video of Ralph Waite who played John Walton on the series The Waltons. Ralph was a dear friend of my Mother Helen Leahy for many years, he gave this speech during my mom's memorial service on Jan-29-2011. My Mother along with Danny Leahy were the founders of the ABC Rehab and Recovery Ctr. in Indio CA
The contestants reputably numbered nearly 80,000 and the competition resulted in three girls thought suitable Margaret Leahy, Katherine Campbell and Agnes Agnès souret who proceeded to travel To hollywood at the end of. 1922 born In, London leahy was described By Norma, talmadge as the most ravishing girl In. england Leahy's role was not given much attention, and she never acted again. Following this one film, Leahy chose to remain in California and get married, instead of returning to England. She later became an interior decorator and grew to despise the movie industry. She apparently committed suicide in Los Angeles, California, at the age of 64.