Volleyball is a team sport in which two teams of six players are separated by a net. Each team tries to score points by grounding a ball on the other team's court under organized rules. It has been a part of the official program of the Summer Olympic Games since 1964. Volleyball is essentially a game of transition from one of the above skills to the next, with choreographed team movement between plays on the ball. These team movements are determined by the teams chosen serve receive system, offensive system, coverage system, and defensive system.
Basic Rules of VolleyballRegular Game Interruptions The basic rules of volleyball allow for regular game interruptions such as player substitutions and time-outs. Each team is entitled to a maximum of 2 timeouts per set (game)Interruptions may be requested by either the playing captain or coach. 
AS long as it can. Because the game depends on getting a set amount of numbers selected randomly and if you have that number cross off a list-a full house may require all 90 … numbers to be called. assuminmg each number take 5 seconds a game can last 7.7 minutes. Depends how long the course is, how many people are on it, how many people you play with and the speed of those players. Could be anywhere between 3 and 6 hours, but usually a … s a guideline 4-4 1/2.
About the sport. Volleyball is a complex game of simple skills. The ball is spiked from up to 60 cm above the height of a basketball hoop (about 3.65 metres) and takes fractions of a second to travel from the spiker to the receiver. 
Report Abuse. there are no minutes in a volleyball game. It depends on how many games for younger kinds like up to junior varsity in highschool, it is games best 2 out of 3. The first two games are up to 25, and the 3rd goes up to 15 points. In varsity volleyball and college ball, it is best 3 out of 5. The first 4 games fo to 25, and the 5th goes to 15
Report Abuse. A 25 point rally scoring game (or set as it is called in USAV) will last about 20 minutes on the average. If you play a 2 out of 3 match, it will last about an 40 minutes to an hour. If you play a 3 out of 5, it will last anywhere from an hour to 1 hour and 45 minutes. You also have to win by two to win the game so if it is going back and forth it could taken quite awhile. My experience is that a junior high match last's about 45 minutes. A high school match last's about 50-60 mintes. A college match is anywhere from 60-90 minutes for the most part
Best Answer: It depends on the difference of the skill level between the two teams. A best 2 out of 3 volleyball match can last anywhere from half an hour to 2 hours. If one team is slaughtering the other team, even if they win 25-0, 25-0 it will still take about half an hour. If it's a hard fought match, then it can take up to 2 hours. Of course, like all sports events, there's always warmups, timeouts, and delays. However, most volleyball games with timeouts take up about an hour, so it's not very long.
Since games are to 25, you can figure about 25 minutes between the start of the first game and the start of the second game. If the match is 2 out of 3, that is 25 and 25 or 25, 25 and 15 which is 50 minutes to 1 hour 5 minutes on an average. If it's a hard fought match, then it can take up to 2 hours. Of course, like all sports events, there's always warmups, timeouts, and delays. However, most volleyball games with timeouts take up about an hour, so it's not very long.
Unlike basketball and football, there is no way of knowing how long a game of volleyball will be. Like the others have already said, whoever wins the first 3 out of 5 sets wins the game. How long that can take can be anywhere from 30 minutes to 2 hours. It depends on how many games for younger kinds like up to junior varsity in highschool, it is games best 2 out of 3. The first two games are up to 25, and the 3rd goes up to 15 points. In varsity volleyball and college ball, it is best 3 out of 5.