Average temperature of Kansas City including average monthly and annual data. Average temperature is the most popular factor that people take into consideration when looking for the best city to live in. CityRating.com offers the average Kansas City temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for Kansas City and dozens of other cities. Average Annual Temperature
Average Annual Temperatures in Kansas. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns and lakes throughout Kansas are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Eastern, Central and Western Kansas.
CityRating.com offers the average Kansas City temperature chart that displays the annual and monthly temperatures for Kansas City and dozens of other cities. Average temperature is the most popular factor that people take into consideration when looking for the best city to live in.
The highest average temperature in Kansas City is July at 79.8 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Kansas City is January at 32.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Kansas City occurs in June with 5 inches. The Kansas City weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. The Kansas City, KS pollution index is 677.4% greater than the Kansas average and 33.8% greater than the national average.
Kansas City Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Kansas City, Missouri during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below monthly and annually for the city, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. How Often Kansas City Has Cold Temperatures. The coldest nights at Kansas City drop down to 0 °F (-18 °C) or lower. Two nights a winter on average get that chilly. The city normally has 21 days a year when the thermometer never climbs above freezing
The hottest days at Kansas City have temperatures peaking in the 100s Fahrenheit (over 37 °C). But only three days a year on average have such heat. One-hundred degree weather can show up anytime in the summer months, but is most likely during August. How Often Kansas City Has Cold Temperatures. The coldest nights at Kansas City drop down to 0 °F (-18 °C) or lower. Two nights a winter on average get that chilly. The city normally has 21 days a year when the thermometer never climbs above freezing
171. 140. Climate data for Kansas City, KS - 66101 - 1961-1990 normals-weather. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December.
0. 4. Climate data for kansas city intl ap, Longitude: -94.7306, Latitude: 39.2972. Average weather Kansas City, MO - 64116 - 1981-2010 normals. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December. 