The contribution margin, sometimes used as a ratio, is the difference between a company's total sales revenue and variable costs. In other words, the contribution margin equals the amount that sales exceed variable costs. This is the sales amount that can be used to, or contributed to, pay off fixed costs. 
For example, if you have variable costs of $10,000 to produce 1,000 units, then the variable cost per unit is $10. Step 2. Calculate the contribution margin per unit of each product by subtracting the variable costs per unit from the unit-selling price -- that is the price you sell a single unit for. For instance, with a variable cost per unit of $10 and a unit-selling price of $20, the contribution margin per unit would be $10. Step 3. 
Product Revenue-Product Variable Costs Product Revenue. The phrase contribution margin can also refer to a per unit measure of a product's gross operating margin, calculated simply as the product's price minus its total variable costs. 
Confidence votes 4.0K. For example, if the per-unit variable cost is $15 and selling price per unit is $20, then the contribution margin is equal to $5. The contribution margin may provide a $5 contribution toward the reduction of fixed costs or a $5 contribution to profits. 
Example of Contribution Margin. Suppose that a company is analyzing its revenues and expenses. The company has sales of $1,000,000 and variable costs of $400,000. The contribution margin for this example would be the difference of $1,000,000 and $400,000, which is $600,000. The $600,000 is the amount left over to pay fixed costs.
Contribution Margin Ratio | Contribution Margin Formula. The contribution margin ratio is the difference between a company's sales and variable expenses, expressed as a percentage. The total margin generated by an entity represents the total earnings available to pay for fixed expenses and generate a profit
Contribution Margin. Contribution margin is a product’s price minus all associated variable costs, resulting in the incremental profit earned for each unit sold. The total contribution margin generated by an entity represents the total earnings available to pay for fixed expenses and to generate a profit. To determine the contribution margin, s ubtract all variable costs of a product from its revenues, and divide by its net revenue. Product variable costs typically include, at a minimum, the costs of direct materials and sales commissions.
Contribution margin (CM) is the amount by which sales revenue exceeds variable costs. It can be calculated as contribution margin per unit as well as total contribution margin, using the following formulas: Unit CM = Unit Price − Variable Cost per Unit. Total CM = Total Sales − Total Variable Costs.