From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Donnatal is a proprietary combination medication for the treatment of intestinal cramping due to various causes, often administered as part of a GI cocktail. It is classed as an anticholinergic antispasmodic drug. Donnatal is marketed by PBM Pharmaceuticals. It is available as tablets, capsules, extended release tablets and elixir. Active ingredients are listed as: phenobarbital, hyoscyamine, atropine and scopolamine. 
Yes you can mail anything. A controlled substance is a substance that it is illegal to posses and distribute in the United States, so one would be an foolish to engage in suc … h an activity. Unless your content with the fact of possibly getting incarcerated and facing criminal charges. 
Yes, in the United States according to the National Controlled Substance Act, Hydrocodone in all it's formulations, is a schedule III controled substance. Medications like Tyl … enol 3's and so forth are also schedule III's. No. A controlled substance is one that may not be legally dispensed without a prescription or, in some cases, may not legally be possessed or dispensed at all.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Allansw. Confidence votes 8. Donnatal is a synonym for Phenobarbatal, a Controlled Substance Schedule IV. In Canada Donnatal is also a controlled substance. No. A controlled substance is one that may not be legally dispensed without a prescription or, in some cases, may not legally be possessed or dispensed at all.
F.S. 893.03 893.03 Standards and schedules.—The substances enumerated in this section are controlled by this chapter. The controlled substances listed or to be listed in Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V are included by whatever official, common, usual, chemical, or trade name designated. 893.03 Standards and schedules.— 
Descriptions. Belladonna alkaloids and phenobarbital combination is used to treat cramping and spasms in the stomach and intestines. It may also be used for stomach ulcers. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. This product is available in the following dosage forms: 1  Elixir. 2  Tablet, Extended Release. 3  Liquid. 