Meaning of Javier. French name. In French, the name Javier means-Born in January.. Other origins for the name Javier include-French, Spanish, Spanish.The name Javier is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-Born in January. Origin-French
People who like the name Xavier also like: Xander, Elijah, Noah, Gabriel, Liam, Alexander, Oliver. Ava, Isabella, Olivia, Charlotte, Sophia, Chloe, Violet. Notes: Often a second name used with the given name Francis in honor of Saint Francis Xavier, Catholic missionary. 
Javier is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ja-vier. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 216 in baby name popularity for boys with 1761 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
Javier /javi-er/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced HAH-vee-air. It is of Spanish and Portuguese origin, and the meaning of Javier is bright. Variant of Xavier. Kreatif forms: Javieria, Jevier, Jovier. 
Click on a circle in the chart to view Javier birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. 
Meaning & History. Derived from the Basque place name Etxaberri meaning the new house. This was the surname of the Jesuit priest Saint Francis Xavier (1506-1552). He was a missionary to India, Japan, China, and other areas in East Asia, and he is the patron saint of the Orient and missionaries. 
Origin of the name Javier: Transferred use of the Spanish surname derived from the place-name Xavier in Navarre. Meanings and history of the name Javier : | Edit. The name has Basque roots, etymologically originating in the word exaberri (etxe berri in standard spelling, meaning new house).
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Xavier is one of the only X names most people know and use, often as a middle name following Francis, as in Saint Francis Xavier, cofounder of the Jesuit order, who got his name from the Spanish-Basque village where he was born.
The name Javier is a Portuguese baby name. In Portuguese the meaning of the name Javier is: Bright. Spanish Meaning: The name Javier is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Javier is: Bright. American Meaning: The name Javier is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Javier is: Bright. French Meaning: The name Javier is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Javier is: Born in January. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated
Meaning of Javier. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Javier means-new house. Other origins for the name Javier include-Spanish, French.The name Javier is most often used as a boy name or male name. Spanish Name Meaning-new house.