Getting around Orlando using our shuttle transportation is the best option when you are on a budget. We provide comfortable and affordable shuttle service to and from Orlando International Airport MCO to Port Canaveral, Cocoa Beach Hotels, Disney, Sea World, Universal Studio Theme Parks and more.
The closest and most convenient airport to Port Canaveral is Orlando International Airport, aka MCO. The distance is 45.7 miles on SR 528. Travel time is estimated as 49 minut … es by car according to Google Maps. There are few transportation companies providing service between the airport and Port Canaveral.
Driving distance from SFB to Port Canaveral. The total driving distance from SFB to Port Canaveral is 61 miles or 98 kilometers. Your trip begins at Orlando Sanford International Airport in Sanford, Florida. It ends in Port Canaveral, Florida
Check the Flight distance between Cape Canaveral and Sanford Airport. Travel time is an important point to know with the driving distance. Hence you might also want to know the Travel Time from Cape Canaveral to Sanford Airport. This will help you estimate how much time you will spend travelling for the distance from Cape Canaveral to Sanford Airport.
Orlando International Airport (Code: MCO) is the closest airport near Port Canaveral which is within the city limits of Cape Canaveral. Orlando Airport is almost exactly a 45 minutes drive from the port and it’s 48 miles west of Port Canaveral. Here are some of the most popular distance questions: How far is: 1  Kennedy Space Center to Port Canaveral: 20 Miles and 25 minutes drive. 2  Universal Studios resort/ SeaWorld/ International Drive Resort area to Port Canaveral: 55 Miles and 1 hour & 5 minutes drive.
We are Sanford Airport's leading shuttle service, providing ground transportation to Port Canaveral, Cocoa Beach, Orlando Attractions, Hotels and Resorts. We are officially licensed by the Orlando Airport Authority and Port Canaveral Governing Bodies. We can pick you up from Sanford Airport by means of private car or our world class Cocoa Beach shuttle service and take you to all major Cocoa Beach hotels, Port Canaveral Terminals, Orlando theme parks and attractions, Kennedy space coast, and world famous Daytona and Cocoa beaches.
9:45 Am. 11:45 Am. We can pick you up from Sanford Airport by means of our Sanford Airport Shuttle service or Port Canaveral Shuttle service and take you to all major Orlando hotels, business centers, theme parks and attractions, Kennedy space coast, and world famous Daytona and Cocoa beaches. We can pick you up from Sanford Airport by means of private car or our world class Cocoa Beach shuttle service and take you to all major Cocoa Beach hotels, Port Canaveral Terminals, Orlando
Sanford Airport is located in Seminole County and is about 45 minutes north of Orlando. Sanford International Airport Shuttle Transportation to Walt Disney World, Universal Studios Orlando and SeaWorld Kissimmee Maingate Hotels. It was originally constructed as a military installation known as Naval Air Station Sanford. Sanford Airport is located within Seminole County not Orange County (Orlando) has is commonly thought. The distance between Sanford International Airport and Port Canaveral Cruise Terminal is about 70-75 miles. The estimated drive time from the Sanford International Airport to Port Canaveral Cruise Terminal is about 90 minutes. Please note: Sanford Airport is NOT the Orlando International Airport