Brush the cooking grates clean. Place the ribs on the grill over direct medium heat and cook for 1 hour, with the lid closed, occasionally turning the packets over for even cooking, making sure not to pierce the foil. Remove the packets from the grill and let rest for about 10 minutes. 
1 2 Let the ribs sit at room temperature for 1 hour before cooking. 2  Heat a grill pan or outdoor grill to medium (about 350°F to 450°F). 3  3 Place the ribs on the grill with the larger, flatter side down, cover the grill, and cook until the pork is browned and crusty on the bottom, about 5 to 7 minutes. 1 Heat a grill pan or outdoor grill to medium (about 350°F to 450°F). 2
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
Step 2. Place the ribs on the grill, directly over the flames. Grill for about 8 to 10 minutes on one side, then turn them over using barbecue tongs and grill the other side for another 8 to 10 minutes. Brush the ribs with a prepared barbecue sauce on both sides a few minutes before you take them off the grill. Continue basting the ribs every 30 minutes or so. Cook for a total of 3 to 5 hours, including the first 90 minutes, until the ribs are extremely tender and just starting to fall apart. At that level of tenderness, the ribs should reach at least 170 F in temperature.
Like pork ribs, they need long, slow cooking to tenderize the meat. Grill at 225 degrees F in the smoker over an indirect heat, and be prepared to set aside up to 8 hours for a large rack in order to bring the internal temperature up to 165 degrees F and break down the tough connective tissues. Taking care to start grilling with the rib rack at room temperature, grill baby backs low and slow at 225 degrees F for 3 to 4 hours. The more ribs in the smoker, the longer the cooking time. To achieve this heat, let one side of the grill come to 350 degrees F and place the rib racks on the unlit side
Baby back ribs can also be grilled fast over a medium heat at 350 degrees in around 1 ½ hours. For this approach, try wrapping the ribs in foil after 30 minutes to concentrate the flavors and moisture, then remove the foil for the last half hour, ready for basting with sauce. Taking care to start grilling with the rib rack at room temperature, grill baby backs low and slow at 225 degrees F for 3 to 4 hours. The more ribs in the smoker, the longer the cooking time. To achieve this heat, let one side of the grill come to 350 degrees F and place the rib racks on the unlit sid
1 Grill the ribs for 2 hours, bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 minutes. 3  Don't be afraid to add an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
Once the ribs have been on the grill for 30 minutes, it is time to move on to the second stage. The ribs should be browned on all sides. If they appear raw on the surface anywhere continued grilling for another 10 to 15 minutes, otherwise, move on to the second phase. 