Step 4 - Cleaning the Glass. Once the frosting has been removed from the frosted glass window, you will still need to clean it up. Use a commercial glass cleaner (you can also use vinegar) and a clean, dry cloth on the glass. It might take several applications to clean off all the residue and have the glass sparkling again. It will take some time and effort to remove all the frosting from the frosted glass window, especially if you’ve frosted several panes. However, if the frosting no longer looks good, removing it will improve the appearance of the room and the whole house.
So I decided to frost the glass on my kitchen cabinets using (first) Rustoleum's Frosted Glass Spray paint, and then over that, I brushed Liquitex artist's matte medium (post is here: http://lipstickandabradnailer.blogspot.com/2012/07/how-to-frost-glass-cabinets.html) . I just left the cabinets hanging, and I sprayed water on the glass (I had frosted the back of the glass on the inside of the cabinet) to soften the frosted coating some. I also read somewhere that spraying water on the glass beforehand lessens the chances that you will scratch the glass when you use the scraper.
Step 2 - Using the Razor Blade. Place the razor blade in a holder and put on safety gloves. If you’re using a single edge razor blade, gloves are especially important. Holding the blade, scrape downward in order to remove more of the frosting from the frosted glass window. It will take some time and effort to remove all the frosting from the frosted glass window, especially if you’ve frosted several panes. However, if the frosting no longer looks good, removing it will improve the appearance of the room and the whole house.
But how do you remove window frosting is a big question. Below are some of the easy ways that shows how to remove window frosting: 1  The corner of the window frosting needs to be heated up with a hair dryer. 2  You have to pull the corner of the frosting with your fingers. 3  You can also use a razor blade to pull the frosting away. Below are the steps which will guide you how to remove window frosting spray: 1  The glass needs to be sprayed with glass cleaner. 2  This will help in lubricating the glass surface so that you don’t have to scratch the glass. 3  Scrape it off with a sharp razor blade that is held at about 15-degree angle to the glass
1 After you seal the frosting, you'll need to scrape it off with a razor blade. 2  If your window is in a door or a frame that you're planning to paint, do the painting first, then frost the window. 3  Taping the glass for painting can damage the frost around the edges when you pull off the tape. Tip. 1  Find frosting spray in craft or home improvement stores. 2  Use window cleaner to scrub away the frosting before you seal it. 3  After you seal the frosting, you'll need to scrape it off with a razor blade. 4  If your window is in a door or a frame that you're planning to paint, do the painting first, then frost the window.
Spray frosting gives you the look of decorative etched glass without harsh chemicals. When you're ready for a new look, the frosted finish scrapes off with ease. Step 1. Place the glass tabletop on a work surface in a well-ventilated area with the side to be frosted facing up. (We frosted the underside of the tabletop to avoid scratching the spray finish off the glass.) Clean
The razor blade should be able to remove virtually all the frosting from the window. If a little remains, rub it lightly with very fine steel wool. It’s important to put very little pressure on the glass to avoid scratching it. When you have the surface of the frosting roughened up, try using the razor blade once more. It will take some time and effort to remove all the frosting from the frosted glass window, especially if you’ve frosted several panes. However, if the frosting no longer looks good, removing it will improve the appearance of the room and the whole house.
Frosting is a thin layer of paint that manufacturers apply to glass to make it opaque. It is common on bathroom windows or shower doors. Sometimes, homeowners apply it themselves and use stencils to make a design out of the frosted glass. The frosting may begin to peel and you’ll need to remove all of it and respray it. Spray the glass with glass cleaner. This will help lubricate the surface so you don’t scratch the glass. Scrape the frosted glass off with a sharp razor blade. Sharp razor blades are less likely to