A student acknowledges this reservation by applying for admission or registering for classes. 1  Estimated Cost of Attendance for One Year of Full-time Undergraduate Enrollment. 2  2015-2016 Undergraduate Tuition and Fees-Cost of Attendance per credit hour (PDF - 294kb). Late Payment: A $50.00 fee (maximum of $200.00 per semester) is assessed to student accounts if charges are not paid when due. Late fees are charged when payment plan payment
Undergraduate Tuition. University of Maine tuition is $8,370 per year for in-state residents. This is 30% more expensive than the national average public four year tuition of $6,429. The cost is $12,682 and 60% cheaper than the average Maine tuition of $21,052 for 4 year colleges. Tuition ranks 7th in Maine amongst 4 year colleges for affordability and is the 14th most expensive 4 year college in the state. Annual Total Cost. The total list price for in-state Maine residents to go to University of Maine is $20,902 for the 2014/2015 academic year. Out-of-state students who don't possess Maine residence can expect a one year cost of $38,782.
Tuition Rates. When making a decision about which university to attend, one important consideration is tuition. Here’s a quick look at undergraduate tuition, fees, and room & board, out-of-state, New England Regional Student Program and Canadian students. *Based on 15 credit hours per semester for two semesters, except UMF which is based on 16 credit hours
Military: Former military, currently active military and their dependents may qualify for in-state tuition. Please see the one-stop for more information. The following figures are for the 2015-2016 academic year (AY) and are based on 2 semesters. Please note that figures for books and fees are estimated. ‡ • UMFK online courses that are part of an Online program may qualify for in-state tuition if the student is enrolled in a degree seeking program at UMFK. ‡‡ • Out Of State includes Canadian and international students.
Tuition, fees (such as mandatory and variable fees) and other educational costs are approved annually for each of the seven campuses of the University of Maine System by the Board of Trustees– Student Charges FY 2016. * New England Board of Higher Education rates are available to residents of the New England states for programs of study included in the New England Regional Student Program.
**Students residing outside the state of Maine (including ILS students) pay a reduced tuition rate of 125% of in-state tuition for ALL online courses at UMA (this includes ILS and non ILS courses offered by UMA). * New England Board of Higher Education rates are available to residents of the New England states for programs of study included in the New England Regional Student Program.
2015-2016 Tuition, Fees, Room & Board. Based on a typical full-time load of 32 credits per year, a double room, and a 7-Day All-Access dining plan, the annual University of Maine at Farmington expenses for the 2015-2016 academic year are: ** Maine Resident Tuition Rate for all Non-Maine Resident Veterans and Active Duty Service members. UMF honors and appreciates our veterans. We offer our low Maine resident tuition rate to all U.S. Veterans and Active Duty Service members – regardless of your state of residence.
Tuition and Fees 2015-2016. Few students pay the actual full cost of their college education. Each year, about 90 percent of UMM students receive some sort of aid, with assistance coming in the form of scholarships, grants, loans, and on-campus jobs. UMM gave out $2.5 million in scholarships, grants, and tuition waivers last year, so your chances of being eligible are pretty good. Below you'll find information on the tuition and fees charged at UMM. To see how the cost of attending UMM compares to other schools, click here. The following table is based on a full-time load of 15 credits per semester, double room, and 19-meals per week.
All dependents using a GI Bill are billed at the in-state tuition rate. Non-Resident E-Tuition Rate. The E-Tuition Rate applies to out-of-state students enrolled in a fully online degree or certificate program. Some exceptions apply. Visit https://online.umaine.edu/tuition for more information about the E-tuition rate.