A major question to consider is the scope of independent NP practice in the state in which you practice. Forty states currently have statutory or regulatory requirements for physician collaboration, direction, or supervision. 
Growing health care needs in California really demand the additional access to care nurse practitioners can provide, said Donna Emanuele, a Southern California nurse practitioner who is president of the California Association for Nurse Practitioners. Another eight states allow nurse practitioners to diagnose and treat patients, but require physician supervision for prescribing medications. The thrust is similar to Senate Bill 491, which bit the dust in August 2013. It would have allowed nurse practitioners to practice independently of doctors in certain settings. A coalition of doctors and others called it a dangerous bill that would put patient's in harm's way
0 Hello all. My husband and I are talking about the states in which NPs can work independently, and how nurses continue to lobby and get legislation passed in more and more states. For some reason, I'm thought there was a link to view a list of those states, but I'm not finding it now. Also note that a collaborating physician is needed for medicare billing. David Carpenter, PA-C. Hello all. My husband and I are talking about the states in which NPs can work independently, and how nurses continue to lobby and get legislation passed in more and more states.
Senate Bill 323 would grant California's 18,000 nurse practitioners full practice… more. zhykova. Sen. Ed Hernandez is again trying to change California law so nurse practitioners can do what they are trained for without supervision by a doctor. Another eight states allow nurse practitioners to diagnose and treat patients, but require physician supervision for prescribing medications. The thrust is similar to Senate Bill 491, which bit the dust in August 2013. It would have allowed nurse practitioners to practice independently of doctors in certain settings. A coalition of doctors and others called it a dangerous bill that would put patient's in harm's way
0. Mar 17, '13 by juan de la cruz, MSN, RN, NP Guide. NP's are not independent in California...the only state in the entire western coast that isn't (OR, WA, and AK are independent practice states). The requirement is that NP's have Standardized Procedures that must be entered into with a physician. A colleague of mine is a member of the California Association for Nurse Practitioners (I was too but I let it lapse) and their top agenda is to push for independent practice in the state. 
California's Nurse Practitioner Supervision Laws. Sorry NP's, nurse practitioners practicing in California are not allowed to go solo. State law requires that NP's practice in collaboration with a physician. Each physician can supervise no more than four drug-prescribing NP's. Unique Educational Requirements for Nurse Practitioners in California. Although nurse practitioners working in California cannot practice independently, they are still a pretty lucky bunch. NP's in this sunny state are not required to take the national nurse practitioner certification exam.
Full practice status is the recommended model by the Institute of Medicine and the National Council for State Boards of Nursing, but not all states are on board with the measure. The remaining states continue to hold reduced or restricted practice regulations for Nurse Practitioners. As hundreds of thousands of new patients gain access to medical care and one-third of primary care doctors retire over the next decade, many Nurse Practitioners are gaining independence and establishing autonomy as they provide medical care without the oversight or management of a physician.