Description. The Grassland Earless Dragon is a small dragon, with a maximum adult head and body length of around 7 cm, and a maximum overall length of 16 cm. It has three thin white lines running from the neck, along the body and down the tail. Historically, the Grassland Earless Dragon ranged from Bathurst to Cooma, including the ACT region. The only populations now known are in the ACT and adjacent NSW at Queanbeyan, and on the Monaro Basalt Plains between Cooma and south-west of Nimmitabel. Formerly known from Victoria, though no recent records.
Earless Dragons: If you think you’ve spotted a grassland earless dragon, Tim McGrath, would love to hear from you. Email: tim.mcgrath@canberra.edu.au. Rock on: This was the final survey for Tim’s three years of field work in which he turned 63236 rocks to find just 45 earless dragons. 
Claudia Doman. 11 April 2011: Without help, the rare grassland earless dragon sits at the edge of extinction in the NSW Monaro tablelands. The “once plentiful” species has dwindled to the extent researchers have found just 13 individual dragons despite scouring well-known sites and reserves
The Grassland Earless Dragon (Tympanocryptis pinguicolla) lives in natural temperate grasslands, dominated by wallaby grasses, tussock grasses and spear grasses. It prefers fairly open grasslands, and shelters in burrows or under rocks. Causes of the loss, degradation and fragmentation of Grassland Earless Dragon habitat include: 1  Urban, industrial and agricultural expansion. 2  Changes in fire regimes. 3  Changes in grazing regimes, particularly with the introduction of sheep, cattle and rabbits. 4  Weed invasion. 5  Use of agricultural chemicals.
Grassland Earless Dragon. This miniature dragon was once found in the native grasslands of western Victoria, NSW and ACT, from Geelong to Bathurst. However, due to loss and degradation of its habitat, many populations have been lost. Causes of the loss, degradation and fragmentation of Grassland Earless Dragon habitat include: 1  Urban, industrial and agricultural expansion. 2  Changes in fire regimes. 3  Changes in grazing regimes, particularly with the introduction of sheep, cattle and rabbits. 4  Weed invasion. 5  Use of agricultural chemicals.
However, a study of morphological and allozyme variation across earless dragons found pinguicolla to be consistently distinct from the rest of T. lineata as well as from other earless dragon taxa: it is not part of T. lineata but warrants distinction as a separate species (Smith et al. 1999). Well, whatever, the persisting Grassland earless dragon populations definitely need our help if they are survive into the future. Finally, this whole article was made possible by Tony Gamble of the University of Minnesota, who kindly shared the photos you see here. Thanks indeed, Tony.
Vegetation formations, classes and types. In this region the Grassland Earless Dragon-Murrumbidgee is known to be associated with the following vegetation formations and classes. Click on a name to get background information about it. Find out more about v
The paper describes three new species of earless dragon, all found in grassland areas of Queensland, now highly impacted by human activity such as agricultural and pastoral industries, and mining and gas extraction. Earless dragons are found throughout most of mainland Australia. They live in dry open areas such as featureless stony deserts, cracking clay plains and grasslands. Most extend across vast tracts of the interior, but one southern temperate grassland species reaches the Darling Downs. Photo R. Ashdown.