My research, and that which is included in the test guides administered by NYS, see informational text as much more than just nonfiction text. There are different types of informational text. http://engageny.org. The various types of informational text have different purposes and features to achieve the set purpose. The format of the text can affect that text, how it is written and how the it is to be read. A notion worth considering is that not all non-fiction text is informational text. One of the major shifts called for in the CCLS is an emphasis on developing the skills required for comprehending and analyzing informational text. The standards call for a balance of literary and informational text with 50% of elementary reading being informational text and by high school it grows to 70%. The ultimate goal of this shift is that by increasing the exposure to informational text, students will be better prepared for college and careers
Nonfiction text is just one type of informational text. The strategies needed for students to be better prepared for college and career, as called for in the CCLS, far exceeds those called for in reading and writing just non-fiction text. One of the major shifts called for in the CCLS is an emphasis on developing the skills required for comprehending and analyzing informational text. The standards call for a balance of literary and informational text with 50% of elementary reading being informational text and by high school it grows to 70%. The ultimate goal of this shift is that by increasing the exposure to informational text, students will be better prepared for college and careers
nonfiction are not important; they are just not the same as informational text. Features It is important to talk about the different types or genres of nonfiction not only because theyhave different purposes, but because they have different features to achieve those purposes. 18 Reading & Writing Informational Text in the Primary Grades What Do We Mean by Research-Based Practice? Throughout this book, we use the term research, so we should say somethingabout what we mean by it.To us, research is the systematic collection and analysisof data for the purpose of addressing a question.
Informational text, often seen in textbooks, brochures and websites, instructs the audience about a topic using clear, accessible language. Although both types of writing present factual information, they do so using different structures, purposes, voices and uses of research. Even though he didn't invent the events of In Cold Blood, Capote's voice as a fiction writer is very much present. Informational text, though, incorporates a common voice that is inviting, accessible to all audiences and unbiased.
Format Within informational text, there are several different types of text that might be consideredinformational text genres or subgenres. For example, there are reference books such as encyclo-pedias, field guides, and so on. 18 Reading & Writing Informational Text in the Primary Grades What Do We Mean by Research-Based Practice? Throughout this book, we use the term research, so we should say somethingabout what we mean by it.To us, research is the systematic collection and analysisof data for the purpose of addressing a question.
Often the terms “informational text” and “nonfiction” are used interchangeably. In our view,however, they are not the same. Informational text is a type of nonfiction—a very importanttype. Nonfiction includes any text that is factual. (Or, by some definitions, any type of literature that is factual, which would exclude texts such as menus and street signs.)Informational text differs from other types of nonfiction in purpose, features, and format. 18 Reading & Writing Informational Text in the Primary Grades What Do We Mean by Research-Based Practice? Throughout this book, we use the term research, so we should say somethingabout what we mean by it.To us, research is the systematic collection and analysisof data for the purpose of addressing a question.
Objectives. Students will examine the similarities and differences between literary nonfiction and informational nonfiction. Students will: 1  identify informational nonfiction text structures. 2  compare/contrast author’s purpose and text structure of literary nonfiction and informational nonfiction texts. Materials. The following informational nonfiction pieces were selected to provide a range of texts. They vary in format (one uses numbered points, one uses subheadings, and one uses question/answer), but all offer clear contrasts with fiction texts that students can identify and discuss.
A misconception that is embedded in the standards is that fiction consists of narrative text structures–writing that tells a story–while informational texts use expository text structures–writing that explains. An imbalance of literary and informational text in global inquiries is highly problematic. Using only informational texts can perpetuate a tourist perspective of gaining facts that remain on the surface of a culture without a deep understanding of the lives and values of people within that culture.
One aspect of the Common Core State Standards that has received a great deal of attention is the increased focus on informational texts. The CCSS document calls for 50/50 split between informational and literary texts in kindergarten, gradually increasing to a 70/30 split in high school. An imbalance of literary and informational text in global inquiries is highly problematic. Using only informational texts can perpetuate a tourist perspective of gaining facts that remain on the surface of a culture without a deep understanding of the lives and values of people within that culture.