The most common cause of excess hormone production is the development of a benign (non-cancerous) tumor in one of the parathyroid glands. This enlargement of one parathyroid gland is called a parathyroid adenoma, and it accounts for 96% of all patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. The most common situation is that one of the parathyroid glands has developed a tumor that is secreting all the hormone.
Overactive Parathyroid Disease This condition is known as primary hyperparathyroidism, and the only treatment is surgical removal of the abnormal gland. About 1 in 600 to 1 in 1000 people have primary hyperparathyroidism. About the Parathyroid Glands. The body has four parathyroid glands that are located just behind the thyroid gland (which is the center of the neck at the front). They have nothing to do with the function of the thyroid. (PARA is derived from a Greek word meaning beside, alongside of, by.).
The single major disease of parathyroid glands is overactivity of one or more of the parathyroid lobes, which make too much parathyroid hormone, causing a potentially serious calcium imbalance. This is called hyperparathyroidism; it leads to hypercalcemia, kidney stones, osteoporosis, and various other symptoms. 
Since parathyroid gland disease (hyperparathyroidism) was first described in 1925, the symptoms have become known as “moans, groans, stones, and bones… with psychic overtones”. About 95% of people with hyperparathyroidism will have some of the classic symptoms listed below, with 5% saying they feel just fine. However, almost 100% of patients will say they feel better after the parathyroid tumor has been removed and the disease cured.
CARDIAC SYMPTOMS OF HYPERPARATHYROIDISM. Heart problems are often seen in patients with parathyroid disease because hyperparathyroidism CAUSES heart problems. Besides high blood pressure which will affect well over half of people with hyperparathyroidism, the heart is often affected in other ways. Nearly all patients with parathyroid problems have symptoms. Sometimes the symptoms are really obvious, like kidney stones, frequent headaches, fatigue, and depression. Sometimes the symptoms are not so obvious, like high blood pressure and the inability to concentrate.
Approximately 3% or 4% of all patients with primary hyperparathyroidism will have an enlargement of all 4 parathyroid glands, a term called parathyroid hyperplasia. In this instance, all of the parathyroid glands become enlarged and produce too much parathyroid hormone. This enlargement of one parathyroid gland is called a parathyroid adenoma, and it accounts for 96% of all patients with primary hyperparathyroidism. The most common situation is that one of the parathyroid glands has developed a tumor that is secreting all the hormone.
About 6 % of people with parathyroid disease (hyperparathyroidism) will discover their parathyroid problem after they show up in the emergency room with a racing heart or heart palpitations. These arrhythmias typically will be treated with a drug called a beta blocker (like Atenolol or Inderal). Nearly all patients with parathyroid problems have symptoms. Sometimes the symptoms are really obvious, like kidney stones, frequent headaches, fatigue, and depression. Sometimes the symptoms are not so obvious, like high blood pressure and the inability to concentrate.
The parathyroid glands are different than the thyroid gland, even though the names are similar. The four parathyroid glands are usually on the back of the thyroid gland, but they can be located around the jaw or neck. Parathyroid glands secrete a hormone called PHT. The PHT regulates the exchange of calcium between the blood and the bones. When the parathyroid gland is over active, too much calcium is pulled out of the bones. This is called hyperparathyroidism or parathyroid disease. Bones need calcium for strength. The brain needs calcium to think and muscles need calcium to contract. Too little calcium in the bones will cause a serious condition called osteoporosis (brittle bone disease). Too much calcium in the blood increases the risk of having a stroke and can make people feel si