Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A longshoreman, also sometimes called a harbor worker or a dock laborer, is primarily responsible for loading and unloading cargo on a docked ship. Longshoremen typically work in teams to systematically move and sort shipping containers, oil barrels, and other cargo
Definition of LONGSHORING. : the act or occupation of working as a longshoreman. ADVERTISEMENT. inpouring, outpouring, rip-roaring, wood-boring. 
Open weather deck hatches around which employees must work that are not protected to a height of 24 inches (0.61 m) by coamings shall be guarded by taut lines or barricades at a height of 36 inches (0.91 m) to 42 inches (1.07 m) above the deck, except on the side on which cargo is being worked. (f) If the foot of a gangway is more than one foot (0.30 m) away from the edge of the apron, the space between them shall be bridged by a firm walkway equipped with a hand rail with a minimum height of approximately 33 inches (0.84 m) with midrails on both sides.
(2) Any changes in the standards incorporated by reference in this part and an official historic file of such changes are available for inspection at the national office of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) , U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. (f) If the foot of a gangway is more than one foot (0.30 m) away from the edge of the apron, the space between them shall be bridged by a firm walkway equipped with a hand rail with a minimum height of approximately 33 inches (0.84 m) with midrails on both sides.
In Australia, the informal term wharfie (from wharf labourer) and the formal waterside worker, include the variety of occupations covered in other countries by words like stevedore. The term stevedore is also sometimes used, as in the company name Patrick Stevedores. It is common but inaccurate to use the terms stevedore and longshoreman interchangeably. However, even the U.S. Congress has done so in the Ship Mortgage Act, 46 app. U.S.C. section 31301(5)(C) which designates both crew wages and stevedore wages as preferred maritime liens.
Cranes covered by the rule, when used in construction applications, include: mobile cranes, crawler cranes, tower cranes, boom trucks, articulating boom (knuckleboom) cranes, floating cranes, cranes on barges, and locomotive cranes. 
Full Definition of LONGSHOREMAN. : a person who loads and unloads ships at a seaport. See longshoreman defined for English-language learners. See longshoreman defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
If balusters are used, there shall be a minimum of one per tread. Handrails shall be a minimum of 1 1/4 inches (3.18 cm) in outside diameter; and (5) Vertical clearance shall be at least 6 feet, 6 inches (1.98 m) above the top step. (c) Maintenance. Spiral stairways shall be maintained in safe condition. (f) If the foot of a gangway is more than one foot (0.30 m) away from the edge of the apron, the space between them shall be bridged by a firm walkway equipped with a hand rail with a minimum height of approximately 33 inches (0.84 m) with midrails on both sides.
The International Longshoremen's Association (ILA) is a labor union representing longshore workers along the East Coast of the United States and Canada, the Gulf Coast, the Great Lakes, Puerto Rico, and inland waterways. In 1892, delegates from eleven ports convened in Detroit where they adopted the by-laws of the Longshoremen's Chicago local and the name National Longshoremen's Association of The United States.