Overweight baggage is also charged on a flat-fee basis, rather than per kilogram, so even being overweight be 3 or 4 lbs may incur a fee of up to $75. On some routes, Delta has incremental fees, usually of $75 if your bag weighs between 51-70lbs (23-32kg), and $200 if between 71-100 lbs (32-44kg). Delta Airlines Checked Baggage Allowance 2015 ↑ Back to Top Checked Baggage Summary Delta has quite complex checked baggage rules, with different rules depending on your airline loyalty status, the route you're travelling on, and the seat class you will be flying in.
Delta Vacations Luggage Fee Policy. Many airlines assess a fee for checked luggage. These fees are payable directly to the airline, and are therefore not included in the Delta Vacations package price. The various airlines are listed below with links to the baggage fees for each carrier. 
Passengers on many Delta flights must pay baggage fees to check their bags. The first checked bag for a domestic Delta flight costs travelers $25 as of 2011. Overweight & Oversized Bags. Travelers that want to check more than two bags on a Delta domestic flight should be prepared to pay $125 for the third bag. All subsequent bags cost $200 each. All flights to Europe cost $200 per bag after the second bag.
The Delta flight is cheaper. But check a bag at a cost of $25 for the first checked bag each way on Delta, and your total fare climbs to $256 -- more than the cost of the Southwest flight, which includes free first and second checked bags. Seven Smart Ways to Bypass Baggage Fees. Last year U.S. fliers spent more than $6.4 billion on baggage fees from the airlines. This suggests that legions of passengers are continuing to shell out hundreds of dollars for optional charges that can be avoided with modest effort.
Checking In & Paying Online. All baggage fees listed below are current and applicable for all ticketing on or after today when Delta's baggage rules are determined to apply. If you ticketed before today, please refer to Delta's previous checked baggage page for more details. If your bag exceeds weight or size limits, please review the Additional, Overweight, and Oversized Baggage section. You may also carry on one bag and one small personal item at no charge. Visit our Carry-on Baggage section for more information.
Delta Airlines Oversize/Overweight Baggage Fees 2015 ↑ Back to Top Excess/Oversize/Overweight Summary Additional bags will be charged flat rates depending on your specific route, with rates ranging from $125/bag up to $285/bag. Delta Airlines Checked Baggage Allowance 2015 ↑ Back to Top Checked Baggage Summary Delta has quite complex checked baggage rules, with different rules depending on your airline loyalty status, the route you're travelling on, and the seat class you will be flying in.
Checked Baggage Fees. Passengers on many Delta flights must pay baggage fees to check their bags. The first checked bag for a domestic Delta flight costs travelers $25 as of 2011. The second checked bag includes a $35 fee. Overweight & Oversized Bags. Travelers that want to check more than two bags on a Delta domestic flight should be prepared to pay $125 for the third bag. All subsequent bags cost $200 each. All flights to Europe cost $200 per bag after the second bag.
Delta charges $25 USD/CDN for the first checked bag and $35 for a second when you pay at airport ticket counter, kiosk, or curbside. Online payments are discounted $2-$3. A third checked bag is $125. Fees increase to $200, beginning with the fourth checked bag. On international flights between the U.S., Canada and South America (except Brazil, Chile and Peru) to/from Europe, one carry-on and one checked bag are permitted for free, with a baggage fee of $100 for the second bag and $200 for each additional piece.
Excess baggage fees Each piece of check-in baggage may weigh up to 23 kg (50.5 lbs) in Economy Class and 32 kg (70.5 lbs) in Business Class. For each piece of check-in baggage that weighs more than 32 kg (70.5 lbs), you will need to pay a fee and you will have to be transported as cargo. 
And there's no evidence that airlines will cut baggage fees as their business recovers. Delta on Tuesday just boosted its fees for domestic travel to $23 for the first checked bag and $32 for the second one, up from $15 and $25, respectively. American and United charge $20 for the first bag, $30 for the second (although United offers a $5 per bag discount for online payment). Of the major airlines, only Southwest charges no fee for the first or second item of checked luggage.