Though Marge eventually went on to partner in all ways with Gower Champion, her first marriage (before the age of 18) was to Art Babbitt, one of the Disney studio's top animators. Babbitt was known for his work on the Queen in Snow White and the Dance of the Mushrooms in Fantasia. But the life of domesticity did not appeal for long; Marge moved out to her own place and then went on the road with the Three Stooges variety show in 1939 for ten weeks.
nov. 2011. Marge graces MOVE with wisdom of life... Champion was born Marjorie Celeste Belcher in Los Angeles, California to Hollywood dance director Ernest Belcher and Gladys Lee Baskette. She began dancing while very young and became a ballet instructor at her father's studio at age twelve. Since retiring, Marge Champion works as a dance teacher and choreographer in New York City. In 1982, she made a rare television acting appearance on the dramatic series Fame, playing a ballet teacher with a prejudice against African-American dance students.
Champion was born Marjorie Celeste Belcher in 1919 in Los Angeles, California, to Hollywood dance director Ernest Belcher and his wife Gladys Lee Baskette (nee Née). Rosenberg she had an older half, Sister Lina, basquette who was already acting in silent films at the age of. twelve Marge Belcher first married Art Babbitt (1907–1992), a top animator at Disney and creator of the Goofy animated character. She was the model for the lead character in Disney's animated feature film, Snow White. They divorced. In 1947 she married another dancer, Gower Champion (1919–1980).
When Gower returned from war duty, he found Jeanne Tyler had given up dancing. Mr. Belcher (Marge's father) suggested Gower might talk to Marge, and so he did. They formed a professional partnership, and were married on October 5, 1947. And the rest, as they say, is history. Honor of the West, (credited as Marjorie Bell) [as Diane], Universal, 1939. Sorority House, [as 'Coed'], RKO, 1939. The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle, (credited as Marjorie Belcher) [as Irene's Girl Friend], RKO, 1939.
Champion was born Marjorie Celeste Belcher in 1919 in Los Angeles, California, to Hollywood dance director Ernest Belcher and his wife Gladys Lee Baskette (nee Née). rosenberg Marge Belcher first married Art Babbitt (1907–1992), a top animator at Disney and creator of the Goofy animated character. She was the model for the lead character in Disney's animated feature film, Snow White. They divorced. In 1947 she married another dancer, Gower Champion (1919–1980).
Though Marge claims to have been a normal girl, not very analytical, 5'2 with almond shaped eyes and a little chubby, animator Don Lusk remembers her as soooo cute!. But the life of domesticity did not appeal for long; Marge moved out to her own place and then went on the road with the Three Stooges variety show in 1939 for ten weeks.
Their dance numbers were not only visually stunning, but they were ground-breaking for telling a story that fit into the plot of the film. Marge Champion was born Marjorie Celeste Belcher in Los Angeles, California on September 2, 1923. Her father, Ernest Belcher, was a master ballet teacher, working with many of the top Hollywood stars of the day. Needless to say, Marge began learning dance at a very tender age, and by the time she was in her teens, she was teaching students of her own age group. Honor of the West, (credited as Marjorie Bell) [as Diane], Universal, 1939. Sorority House, [as 'Coed'], RKO, 1939. The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle, (credited as Marjorie Belcher) [as Irene's Girl Friend], RKO, 1939.
Mini Bio (1). One of the great dancer and choreographers in both movies and stage, Marge Champion is best known today as the former wife of Gower Champion, when they worked together as a highly successfully dancing team in the MGM musical years. Mother of film and television director Gregg Champion and son Blake Champion. She will appear on Broadway this spring in a limited-run revival of Stephen Sondheim 's Follies as-surprise-the wife of a husband-and-wife song-and-dance team, performing the song Rain On the Roof.