Introduction. A reflexive pronoun is a special kind of pronoun. It is usually used when the object of a sentence is the same as the subject, as you will see below. Each personal pronoun (such as I, you, and she) has its own reflexive form. This introduction will explain what the different forms of reflexive pronouns are, and when they are used.
Definition of REFLEXIVE PRONOUN. : a pronoun referring to the subject of the sentence, clause, or verbal phrase in which it stands; specifically: a personal pronoun compounded with-self. 
Defining Reflexive Pronouns. You might already know that reflexive pronouns are a bit different from the other kinds of pronouns. They cause the verb to reflect back on the subject. In other words, reflexive pronouns are used when the subject of the sentence is the same as the object of the verb of that sentence.
Reflexive Pronouns. Reflexive pronouns are these words: myself, yourself, herself, himself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, and themselves* Reflexive pronouns are used when the subject and the object in a sentence are the same person. For example: I hit myself with a hammer. John hit himself with a hammer. Check Your Understanding Use the the object to use a *reflexive pronoun or **object pronoun. myself, yourself, herself, himself, itself, ourselves, yourselves, and themselves*.
Definition. A pronoun ending in-self or-selves that's used as an object to refer to a previously named noun or pronoun in a sentence. Reflexive pronouns usually follow verbs or prepositions. Reflexive pronouns have the same forms as intensive pronouns. 
Reflexive pronouns are pronouns that refer back to the subject of the sentence or clause. They either end in –self, as in the singular form, or –selves as in the plural form. The singular reflexive pronouns are: In this sense the italicized words are not the same person. Him is not a reflection of Adam therefore it is not a reflexive pronoun. Reflexive: Adam e-mailed himself a copy of the report. Here are the italicized words are the same person. Himself reflects back to the subject of the sentence which is Adam.
A reflexive pronoun is used with another noun (or pronoun) when something does something to itself. For example: Contrast the example above with this: Below are some examples of reflexive pronouns. Using a reflexive pronoun means you do not have to repeat the subject (shown here in bold). 
A reflexive pronoun is a type of pronoun that is preceded by the adverb, adjective, pronoun, or noun to which it refers, so long as that antecedent is located within the same clause. 
A reflexive pronoun is a pronoun that is preceded or followed by the noun, adjective, adverb or pronoun to which it refers (its antecedent) within the same clause. A reflexive pronoun is a special kind of pronoun that is usually used when the object of a sentence is the same as the subject. Each personal pronoun (such as I, you and she) has its own reflexive form: 1  I — myself (intensive). 2  you (singular) — your
When the object of the verb is the same person as the subject, you will need to use a reflexive pronoun that matches the subject of the verb in both number (singular, plural) and person (1st, 2nd, 3rd). 1  Me lavo. ( 2 I wash myself.). 3  Te lavas. 