A frequently misunderstood subject related to electric motors is insulation class and temperature ratings. This paper tries to describe, in basic terms, the temperature relationships that are meaningful in standard AC induction motors. Insulations have been standardized and graded by their resistance to thermal aging and failure. Four insulation classes are in common use. For simplicity, they have been designated by the letters A, B, F, and H. The temperature capabilities of these classes are separated from each other by 25° C increments.
The ultimate temperature in the winding is the sum of the ambient and the winding temperature rise. For example, if a motor is rated with a 1.15 service factor and has a class B (130 C) insulation system, the temperature rise according to NEMA Stds. Cl.” on nameplates, insulation class is a standard, industry classification of the thermal endurance of the motor winding. Insulation class is indicated by a letter designation such as A, B, F or H (see Table 2), depending on the winding’s ability to withstand a given operating temperature for a given life.
An insulation class is a standardized way to indicate the maximum hot spot temperature for an insulation system. These insulation classes are usually referred to by their UL/NEMA letter designation. The most common letter designations and their maximum allowable hot spot temperature are shown in Fig. 1. The temperature rating of these insulation classes indicates at what temperature the insulation system can operate in order to average of 20,000 hours of life. Each insulation class also has a temperature rise associated with it.
The letter B, for instance, might represent the design code, insulation class or kilovolt amperes (kVA) code (though highly unlikely). Therefore, understanding what the different designations mean and reconfirming their appropriateness for all replacement motor applications is important. Cl.” on nameplates, insulation class is a standard, industry classification of the thermal endurance of the motor winding. Insulation class is indicated by a letter designation such as A, B, F or H (see Table 2), depending on the winding’s ability to withstand a given operating temperature for a given life.
For example, an 80°C rise is often referred to as a 'Class B' temperature rise, since 80°C is the maximum allowable temperature rise (by resistance) for a 1.0 S.F. motor insulated with Class B insulation based on a 40°C ambient. Thus, a motor with Class F insulation and an 80 O C rise is commonly referred to as an 'F/B' motor. Many improvements have been made in motor insulation in the past couple of decades, such that a Class F (or better) insulation system is common for motor winding insulation.
Insulation class. Insulation classes group insulations by their resistance to thermal aging and failure. We designate the four common insulation classes as A, B, F, or H. The temperature capability of each class is the maximum temperature at which the insulation can operate to yield an average life of 20,000 hr. For example: A standard T frame motor might have a rating of 40°C ambient, 80°C temperature rise, and a 10°C hot spot allowance. When you add these three components together, you use up the total temperature capability of Class B insulation (130°C).
Most T frame motors are designed for use with Class B insulation. In a T frame motor with Class B insulation, the extra 25° of thermal capacity (Class B compared to Class A), is utilized to accommodate the higher temperature rise associated with the physically smaller T frame motors. Insulations have been standardized and graded by their resistance to thermal aging and failure. Four insulation classes are in common use. For simplicity, they have been designated by the letters A, B, F, and H. The temperature capabilities of these classes are separated from each other by 25° C increments.
The electrical insulation system for wires used in generators, electric motors, transformers, and other wire-wound electrical components is divided into different classes by temperature and temperature rise. The electrical insulation system is sometimes referred to as insulation class or thermal classification. The maximum hot-spot operating temperature is reached by adding the rated ambient temperature of the machine (often 40°C), a temperature rise, and a 10 °C hot-spot allowance. Electrical machines are usually designed with an average temperature below the rated hot-spot temperature to allow for acceptable life.
Each class is given a designation that corresponds to the upper temperature limit of the insulating material when used under normal operating conditions. The correct insulation of the winding of a motor is determined by both the temperature rise in the motor and the temperature of the ambient air. If a motor is subjected to an ambient temperature higher than 40 C, it must normally be de-rated or a higher insulation class of material used. Note: motors are typically rated for class 'B' or 'F' insulation. Tip: specify a class ‘F’ insulation, but a class ‘B’ temperature rise
1) Allowable temperature rises are based upon a reference ambient temperature of 40oC. Operation temperature is reference temperature + allowable temperature rise + allowance for hot spot winding. It is important to be aware that insulation classes are directly related to motor life. Example-a motor operating at 180 Degrees C will have an estimated life of. 1  only 300 hours with a Class A insulation. 2  1,800 hours with Class B