QSR’s Tim Hortons chain also enjoyed robust top-line growth. Comparable-store sales gained 5.3% against a forecast of 3.5%, while systemwide sales increased 8.1%. Total revenue at QSR ballooned to $932 million from $241 million in last year’s first quarter, which came before the acquisition. The marriage of Burger King and Tim Horton — a Canadian doughnut and coffee chain — to form the world’s third-largest fast-food chain certainly got off to a strong start in 2015. By most measures, QSR revenue growth was strong in the first quarter.
Burger King just posted its strongest revenue growth in almost 10 years, and that helped Restaurant Brands International Inc (NYSE: QSR) — formed when Burger King acquired Tim Hortons last year — to beat Wall Street estimates. The marriage of Burger King and Tim Horton — a Canadian doughnut and coffee chain — to form the world’s third-largest fast-food chain certainly got off to a strong start in 2015. By most measures, QSR revenue growth was strong in the first quarter.
Tim Horton's (THI) and Burger King (BKW) merge to form Restaurant Brands International (QSR) - steps for Tim Horton's shareholders. NOTE: These steps are for clubs that held Tim Horton's shares prior to the merger. If your club held Burger King shares prior to the merger, please see FAQ 1395 on entering this merger for Burger King
3G Capital (which held a 71% majority stake in Burger King) holds a 51% majority stake in Restaurant Brands International. Tim Hortons' existing shareholders own 22%, and Burger King's own 27%. Berkshire Hathaway, who partially funded the merger, holds a 4.8% stake. The remainder of the company is publicly traded on the New York and Toronto Stock Exchanges, and owned by the prior shareholders of Burger King and Tim Hortons. The deal was approved by Tim Hortons' shareholders on December 9, 2014, and the company began trading on December 15, 2014.
On August 26, 2014, Burger King agreed to purchase Tim Hortons for US$11.4 billion; the chain became a subsidiary of the Oakville-based holding company Restaurant Brands International on December 15, 2014, which is majority-owned by Brazilian investment firm 3G Capital. Tim Hortons franchises spread rapidly and eventually overtook McDonald's as Canada's largest food service operator. The company opened twice as many Canadian outlets as McDonald's and system-wide sales also surpassed those of McDonald's Canadian operations as of 2002.
Tim Horton’s and Burger King merged to form Restaurant Brands International effective 12/12/2014. The merger gave multiple options for the shareholders of each company involved. Depending on the option chosen the merger can be a fully taxable, partially taxable or non-taxable transaction. NOTE: These steps are for clubs that held Tim Horton's shares prior to the merger. If your club held Burger King shares prior to the merger, please see FAQ 1395 on entering this merger for Burger King shareholders.
Burger King, an international burger franchise based in Miami, and Tim Hortons, a Canadian coffee and doughnuts chain, announced plans for an $11 billion merger back in August. The new company, Restaurant Brands International, will oversee 18,000 locations of the two brands across 100 countries. About 72 percent of Tim Hortons shareholders, or holders of 95.7 million shares, will receive shares of the new company. Another 26 percent of the Canadian company, or holders of 34.8 million shares, did not make an election or requested to cash out some of their shares.
To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research. Restaurant Brands International (QSR-WI) announced the completion of the merger between Tim Hortons Inc. and Burger King Worldwide, Inc., worth roughly $11.0 billion. The two brands will continue to operate independently under the new global quick service restaurant-Restaurant Brands International. Earlier, on Dec 10, 2014, the Tim Hortons shareholders had approved the long-awaited transaction. However, the Burger King shareholders were not required to vote on the merger since 3G Capital, which owns approximately 70% of the company, had already approved the deal.
Shareholders of Tim Hortons have approved the long-awaited $11.0 billion transaction. The merged corporate entity will be named Restaurant Brands International and trade on the Toronto Stock Exchange (:TSX) and New York Stock Exchange (:NYSE) under the symbol QSR. 
Burger King has completed its merger. Zacks.com reported today that the Burger King Worldwide, Inc. and Tim Hortons, Inc. are now officially subsidiaries of the newly created Restaurant Brands International (NYSE and TSE: QSR-WI) starting on December 15, with headquarters located in Oakville, Ontario. 