It forms the lower jaw and holds the lower teeth in place. In the midline on the anterior surface of the mandible is a faint ridge, an indication of the mandibular symphysis, where the bone is formed by the fusion of right and left processes during mandibular development. The mandible (from Latin mandibula, jawbone) or inferior maxillary bone is the largest, strongest and lowest bone in the face.
any of the three (anterior, medial and posterior) processes of the sphenoid bone. condylar process. carries the articular surface with which the mandible articulates with the temporal bone at the temporomandibular joint. coracoid process. a small curved process arising from the glenoid rim and neck of the scapula; called also coracoid; large in humans and animals with large clavicles. 
Noun. 1. mandibular condyle-the condyle of the ramus of the mandible that articulates with the skull. condylar process, condyloid process. jawbone, jowl, lower jaw, lower jawbone, mandible, mandibula, mandibular bone, submaxilla-the jaw in vertebrates that is hinged to open the mouth. 
Only movable bone in the skull. Only movable bone in the skull. i. ramus of the mandible. ii. mandibular angle. iii. mandibular condyle articulates with the mandibular fossae. iv. It is separated from the coronoid process by the--. v. mandibular notch. vi. H). Mandible Only movable bone in the skull i. ramus of the mandible ii. mandibular angle iii. mandibular condyle articulates with the mandibular fossae iv. It is separated from the coronoid process by the-- v. mandibular notch vi. mandibular foramen vi
311). The articular disk is a thin, oval plate, placed between the condyle of the mandible and the mandibular fossa. Its upper surface is concavo-convex from before backward, to accommodate itself to the form of the mandibular fossa and the articular tubercle. Its under surface, in contact with the condyle, is concave
The maxillae (plural: maxillae /maekˈsɪliː/) mækˈsɪliː are the two maxilla bones forming the upper jaw and palate of the. Mouth the two halves are fused at the intermaxillary suture to form the upper. Jaw this is similar to the (mandible lower), jaw which is also a fusion of two halves at the mandibular. symphysis The two halves are fused at the intermaxillary suture to form the upper jaw. This is similar to the mandible (lower jaw), which is also a fusion of two halves at the mandibular symphysis. Sometimes (e.g. in bony fish), the maxilla is called upper maxilla, with the mandible being the lower maxilla..
1 Alveolar process, the tooth bearing area of the mandible (upper part of the body of the mandible). 2  Condyle, superior (upper) and posterior projection from the ramus, which makes the temporomandibular joint with the temporal bone. 3  Coronoid process, superior and anterior projection from the ramus. The mandible (from Latin mandibula, jawbone) or inferior maxillary bone is the largest, strongest and lowest bone in the face.