The second floor Center Hall of the White House in 2001. Floor plan of the White House second floor showing location of the Center Hall. The Center Hall is a broad central hallway on the second floor of the White House, home of the President of the United States. In the early 20th century, William Howard Taft decorated the hall with exotic plants and art he had brought with him from his tenure as Governor-General of the Philippines. Later, Woodrow Wilson watched motion pictures here as the present White House theater was still a cloakroom.
The open columned walkway is now used by the President and his staff to travel between the West Wing and the Executive Residence. President Barack Obama walks along the Colonnade of the White House to the Oval Office, Feb. 14, 2011. (Official White House Photo by Lawrence Jackson). The West Wing has expanded and undergone several renovations since then, but it has remained the official workplace of the President. President Thomas Jefferson first opened the White House for public tours because he understood then, as we do now, that this house belongs to the American people.
The West Wing ground floor is also the site of a cafeteria, staffed by Naval culinary specialists and called the White House Mess. It is located underneath the Oval Office, and was established by President Truman on June 11, 1951. Ground Floor Lobby. Situation Room. Before construction of the West Wing, presidential staff worked on the second floor of what is now the Executive Residence. However, when Theodore Roosevelt became President, he found that the existing offices in the Mansion were insufficient to accommodate his family as well as his staff.
Letter from the President. It is my pleasure to welcome you to the West Wing of the White House. In 1902, President Theodore Roosevelt relocated his office from the second floor of the residence to this newly constructed building. The West Wing has expanded and undergone several renovations since then, but it has remained the official workplace of the President. President Thomas Jefferson first opened the White House for public tours because he understood then, as we do now, that this house belongs to the American people.
The Vaulted Ground Floor Hall. Like all the floors, the ground floor of the White House features a large central hall. But the ground floor's hall has a dramatic vaulted ceiling that helps transfer the weight of the upper floors to the main supporting walls. Originally, this vaulting was a functional architectural element, but when the White House was rebuilt in 1952, the steel infrastructure made it unnecessary. The look was retained anyway, but it is now essentially decorative. The hall is about 17 feet wide and 161 feet long. Presidents sometimes use this hall for televised addresses to the nation, since the vauls provide a dramatic backdrop and an easy means of approaching and departed from the cameras.
The West Wing lobby is the reception room for visitors of the President, Vice President, and White House staff. The current lobby was renovated by Richard Nixon in 1970 to provide a smaller, more intimate receiving space. The West Wing has expanded and undergone several renovations since then, but it has remained the official workplace of the President. President Thomas Jefferson first opened the White House for public tours because he understood then, as we do now, that this house belongs to the American people.
The West Wing of the White House, also known as the Executive Office Building, houses the offices of the President of the United States. Before construction of the West Wing, presidential staff worked on the second floor of what is now the Executive Residence. However, when Theodore Roosevelt became President, he found that the existing offices in the Mansion were insufficient to accommodate his family as well as his staff.
President Wilson's graphoscope film projector (Wilson House). The main corridor on the second floor is a 17-foot wide hall furnished with sitting areas and display areas for the first family's enjoyment and entertaining.
About this Program. President Obama is committed to opening the doors of the White House and truly making it the People’s House. Normally reserved for senior level White House Staff, Cabinet Members, and selected guests, the White House Mess is now open to the general public one weekend per month. Advance reservations are required.
The West Wing's three floors contain offices for the White House Chief of Staff, the Counselor to the President, the Senior Advisor to the President, the White House Press Secretary, and their support staffs. Before construction of the West Wing, presidential staff worked on the second floor of what is now the Executive Residence. However, when Theodore Roosevelt became President, he found that the existing offices in the Mansion were insufficient to accommodate his family as well as his staff.