Their educational program must include at least 10 college-level courses in child life, with at least one course taught by a Certified Child Life Specialist. They must also have undergone at least 480 hours of child life clinical experience while being supervised
How to become a Child Life Specialist. In order to become a certified child life specialists (CCLS), you must first have earned a bachelor's or master's degree, with an educational background that includes human growth and development, education, psychology and counseling.
Complete an internship to gain clinical experience. Contact the child life or social work departments of hospitals with a pediatric unit. Call pediatric rehabilitation and burn centers as well as pediatric hospices. Complete at least 480 hours of clinical work as a child life intern.
Child life specialists are certified through a program administered by the Child Life Council (CLC) . The requirements for certification are based on academic and internship experience and successful completion of an examination process.
Most employers require child life specialists to have a minimum of a bachelor's degree. Some colleges and universities offer programs in child life, but other acceptable majors include child and family studies, psychology, child development, recreational therapy and early childhood education.
Apply for certification if it is mandatory in your state. Find out about child life certification in your state by contacting The Child Life Council, 11820 Parklawn Drive #3202, Rockville, MD. You must complete either an internship or a certain number of hours volunteering in a child life program to become certified.
Save. How to Become a Child Life Specialist. A child life specialist works in hospitals to help children understand medical procedures and diagnoses through play therapy, accompanies them through those procedures, and offers psychological and emotional support to them and their families.
Additional eligibility details for the Certified Child Life Specialist (CCLS) designation by the Child Life Council are: 10 undergraduate child life courses or 10 courses in a connected area, 480 hours of supervised clinical experience and the passing of an exam.
Many hospitals prefer to hire a CLC certified child life specialist. 1  Meet the eligibility requirements, which include a bachelor's degree with 10 classes in child development, education, social work, nursing or related fields. 2  Provide verification of completion of a 480-hour internship in a child life department.