Recording accounting transactions with the accounting equation means that you use debits and credits to record every transaction, which is known as double-entry bookkeeping. See the debits and credits article for more information about double-entry bookkeeping. The reason why the accounting equation is so important is that is always true-and it forms the basis for all accounting transactions. At a general level, this means that whenever there is a recordable transaction, the choices for recording it all involve keeping the accounting equation in balance.
The Accounting Equation. The accounting equation states that the total value of a business's assets must always equal the combined value of its liabilities and its owners' equity (or stockholders' equity in the case of a corporation). When a business executes any transaction -- a sale to a customer, a purchase, a debt payment, a stock sale -- the accounting equation must remain in balance. If the equation isn't balanced, this indicates that the analysis is incomplete or incorrect.
DEFINITION of 'Accounting Equation'. The equation that is the foundation of double entry accounting. The accounting equation displays that all assets are either financed by borrowing money or paying with the money of the company's shareholders. Thus, the accounting equation is: Assets = Liabilities + Shareholder Equity. The balance sheet is a complex display of this equation, showing that the total assets of a company are equal to the total of liabilities and shareholder equity. Any purchase or sale by an accounting equity has an equal effect on both sides of the equation, or offsetting effects on the same side of the equation. The accounting equation is also written as Liabilities = Assets – Shareholder Equity and Shareholder Equity = Assets – Liabilities. Next Up.
The accounting equation for a sole proprietorship is: The accounting equation for a corporation is: Assets are a company's resources—things the company owns. Examples of assets include cash, accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid insurance, investments, land, buildings, equipment, and goodwill.
In essence, the accounting equation is: Assets = Liabilities + Shareholders' Equity. The assets in the accounting equation are the resources that a company has available for its use, such as cash, accounts receivable, fixed assets, and inventory. The reason why the accounting equation is so important is that is always true-and it forms the basis for all accounting transactions. At a general level, this means that whenever there is a recordable transaction, the choices for recording it all involve keeping the accounting equation in balance.
Balance Sheet and Income Statement. The balance sheet is also known as the statement of financial position and it reflects the accounting equation. The balance sheet reports a company's assets, liabilities, and owner's (or stockholders') equity at a specific point in time. Like the accounting equation, it shows that a company's total amount of assets equals the total amount of liabilities plus owner's (or stockholders') equity. The income statement is the financial statement that reports a company's revenues and expenses and the resulting net income. The accounting equation for a corporation is: Assets are a company's resources—things the company owns. Examples of assets include cash, accounts receivable, inventory, prepaid insurance, investments, land, buildings, equipment, and goodwill.
The company pays for these resources by either incurring liabilities (which is the Liabilities part of the accounting equation) or by obtaining funding from investors (which is the Shareholders' Equity part of the equation). The reason why the accounting equation is so important is that is always true-and it forms the basis for all accounting transactions. At a general level, this means that whenever there is a recordable transaction, the choices for recording it all involve keeping the accounting equation in balance.
Top 10 facts about the world. The accounting equation represents the basic equation associated with double-entry accounting. Essentially, this equation establishes the formula for representing the relationship that exists between assets, liabilities, and net worth. 
The basic accounting equation, also called the balance sheet equation, represents the relationship between the assets, liabilities, and owner's equity of a business. It is the foundation for the double-entry bookkeeping system. For each transaction, the total debits equal the total credits. It can be expressed as. Now it shows owners' interest is equal to property (assets) minus debts (liabilities). Since in a corporation owners are shareholders, owner's interest is called shareholders' equity. Every accounting transaction affects at least one element of the equation, but always balances. Simplest transactions also include: