The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 2  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. Cystitis is considered a lower urinary tract infection. Pyelonephritis is an upper urinary tract infection and is much more serious. In most cases, urinary tract infections are annoyances that cause urinary discomfort. However, if left untreated, UTIs can develop into very serious and potentially life-threatening kidney infections (pyelonephritis) that can permanently scar or damage the kidneys.
Causes. Urinary tract infections typically occur when bacteria enter the urinary tract through the urethra and begin to multiply in the bladder. Although the urinary system is designed to keep out such microscopic invaders, these defenses sometimes fail. 1 This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 2  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
Causes. UTIs occur when bacteria enter and infect the urinary tract. UTIs can affect several parts of the urinary tract, but the most common type of UTI is a bladder infection (also known as cystitis).
Urinary tract infections are caused by bacteria that occur in fecal material. This is the reason why women are told to wipe from front to back. The most common bacteria seen in a urinary tract infection is E. coli, and this is also commonly seen in feces. Urinary tract infections can be caused by sexual intercourse, waiting too long to urinate, inadequate bladder emptying, and some forms of birth control such as spermicidal jelly and the use of diaphragms. Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are triggered by bacteria (and sometimes fungi and viruses). The old thinking was this: bugs enter the urethra (the tube that urine goes through) and colonize the bladder and kidney after sex or—for women—if you wipe wrong.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 2  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a condition in which one or more parts of the urinary system (the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra) become infected. UTIs are the most common of all bacterial infections and can occur at any time in the life of an individual. In most cases, urinary tract infections are annoyances that cause urinary discomfort. However, if left untreated, UTIs can develop into very serious and potentially life-threatening kidney infections (pyelonephritis) that can permanently scar or damage the kidneys.
1 The majority of urinary tract infections are caused by the E. Coli bacterium. 2  Common symptoms include a strong, frequent urge to urinate and a painful and burning sensation when urinating. 3  Urinary tract infection is usually diagnosed based on symptoms and testing of a urine sample. Urinary tract infections are caused when microbes manage to get past the body's natural defenses. The vast majority of UTI cases are caused by the bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli), usually found in the digestive system. Chlamydia and Mycoplasma bacteria can infect the urethra but not the bladder.