Latin Meaning: The name Russell is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Russell is: Red haired. American Meaning: The name Russell is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Russell is: Red haired. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Russell is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Russell is: Fox. French Meaning: The name Russell is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Russell is: Reddish. English Meaning: The name Russell is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Russell is: Form of Rufus: Red-
From a surname which meant little red one in French. A notable bearer of the surname was the agnostic British philosopher Bertrand Russell (1872-1970), who wrote on many subjects including logic, epistemology and mathematics. He was also a political activist for causes such as pacifism and women's rights. 
Comments and insights on the name Russell: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Russell: | Edit. When my son Russell was born I called him my little Russell sprout. My brother hates the nickname but I love it, Russell Bustle. I like the name Russell and I like Russ for a nickname
Origin of the name Russell: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Old French roussell (red-haired), from rous (red). The name, which arose as a nickname for someone with red hair, was brought to England by the Normans. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Russell: | Edit. When my son Russell was born I called him my little Russell sprout. My brother hates the nickname but I love it, Russell Bustle.
Russel is a very popular first name for males (#554 out of 1220, Top 45%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#6781 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Russel for boys. 
RUSSELL Surname Meaning & Origin: Russell is a common patronymic surname derived from the given name Rousel, old French for someone with red hair or a red face. Russell is the 93rd most popular surname in the United States and England, and the 47th most common surname in Scotland. Surname Origin: Russell is a common patronymic surname derived from the given name Rousel, old French for someone with red hair or a red face. Russell is the 93rd most popular surname in the United States and England, and the 47th most common surname in Scotland.
Russell /rus-sell/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced RUSS-el. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Russell is  little red . Also possibly refers to ruddy skin or to reddish hair. Philosopher Bertrand Russell; author Russell Baker; actor Russell Crowe. Kreatif forms: Risell, Roysell, Rusly. How popular is Russell? Russell is a very prominent first name for men (#82 out of 1220, Top 7%) and also a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#93 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census)