Lilies do not usually change color. Many lilies are hybrids so perhaps a gene from one of the parents or the original plant became dominant. Or, sometimes seedlings that didn't bloom last year come into flower or stray bulbs appeared in your yard (thanks to critters) and bloomed. 
Water Lilies, Popular Aquatic Pond Plants. Water lilies – or Nymphaea, to scientists – are considered by many to be the jewels of the pond. Not only are they beautiful to look at, but they also serve an important purpose in the pond, mainly in aiding its ecosystem. Water lilies range notably in size ­­– from miniature flowers with small leaves to giant plants that spread over 25 square feet. They come in a variety of shapes – star shaped, cup shaped, pointed or fluffy, though that’s certainly not all. The leaves can be smooth or jagged, rounded or pointed.
The elegant blooms of water lilies only look delicate. Plant a hardy water lily for a summer splashed with colour. Ideally lilies should be planted at a depth of 30-50cm (12-18”), the closer the lily is to the surface of the pond the closer it is to the sun. The warmer water results in a fuller plant with more blooms. There are two types of water lilies, hardy water lilies, and tropicals. We do not recommend tropical water lilies as they need a consistent water temperature of 80 degrees Celsius and above, and are therefore poor bloomers in our Northern climate.
If your water lily looks sickly or fails to bloom, it is probably due to one or a combination of three things: the water is not warm enough (should be at least 80°), the plant is not getting enough sun or your plant wants to be fed. When all conditions are met, flower buds and pads will start emerging right away. 
Water lilies are usually started in one or two gallon pots. A four to five gallon pot is better if the pond has space for larger pots. A four and a half-gallon pot measures sixteen inches in diameter by seven inches deep. A wide shallow pot matches the growth habit of the spreading root system of a water lily. Water lilies must have a minimum of ten inches of water over the soil surface in order to bloom. Deeper water keeps the root system cooler and shaded, encouraging better growth and flowering. Most lilies perform best in water depths twelve to twenty four inches.
Though hardy water lilies are indeed very beautiful flowers, it is the tropical lilies that command – and capture – the most attention. They are larger and flashier than the hardies and tend to be more fragrant. Water lilies range notably in size ­­– from miniature flowers with small leaves to giant plants that spread over 25 square feet. They come in a variety of shapes – star shaped, cup shaped, pointed or fluffy, though that’s certainly not all. The leaves can be smooth or jagged, rounded or pointed.
Hardy water lilies are true perennials. As long as their rhizomes do not freeze over winter, they will survive dormancy in the pond. Hardy lilies over-winter best at a depth of 2ft or more. If the pond is too shallow, they can be over-wintered successfully in a cool, dark, frost-free place indoors. Typically, hardy lilies do not bloom as profusely as tropical lilies, nor do they hold their blooms on long stems, high above the water. Hardy water lilies require full sun in order to bloom. Most varieties flourish in eight to ten hours of sun a day-only a few varieties will bloom with less than five.
Save. Water lilies display large, shield-like green leaves and showy, fragrant flowers that are available in an assortment of colors. A popular aquatic pond plant, water lilies bloom mainly during spring and summer but can remain lively year-round in frost-free regions. Growing Conditions. Water lilies require approximately five to six hours of direct sunlight, calm water, rich soil (fertilizer optional), proper water depth and pruning to flourish. Hardy: Bloom in spring (May), once water temperature reaches approximately 60 degrees and become dormant in fall (September).
Water lily. Nymphaea. Water lilies offer a floating mat of foliage crowned with resplendent blooms that open every morning, then close for the afternoon (though night-blooming water lilies open at night and close every morning). Each bloom generally lasts 3-4 days, and then is quickly replaced. 