Delusional disorder or paranoid disorder. A person with delusional disorder or paranoid disorder cannot tell what's real or imagined. This is a serious type of mental health disorder called psychosis. 1 Jealous: A person with this type of delusional disorder believes that their spouse or sexual partner is unfaithful. 2  Persecutory: People with this type of delusional disorder believe that they (or someone close to them) are being mistreated, or that someone is spying on them or planning to harm them.
More ». For a person with Delusional Disorder, the line between what is real and what is imagined is blurred. Once known as Paranoid Disorder, Delusional Disorder is a mental illness characterized by RECURRING non-bizarre delusions, which are non-wavering beliefs in something that's actually untrue. For a person with Delusional Disorder, delusions center on scenarios that COULD happen, even if they are far-fetched. 
A. A. A. Delusional disorder, previously called paranoid disorder, is a type of serious mental illness called a psychosis in which a person cannot tell what is real from what is imagined. The main feature of this disorder is the presence of delusions, which are unshakable beliefs in something untrue
Overview. Delusional disorder is an illness characterized by at least 1 month of delusions but no other psychotic symptoms according to the American Psychiatric Association’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5). 
Definition. Delusional disorder refers to a condition associated with one or more nonbizarre delusions of thinking—such as expressing beliefs that occur in real life such as being poisoned, being stalked, being loved or deceived, or having an illness, provided no other symptoms of schizophrenia are exhibited. Causes. There are a variety of associated features to the delusional disorder including the development of an irritable or gloomy mood as a reaction to their delusional beliefs. Especially with persecutory and jealous types, marked anger and violent behavior can occur.
By Psych Central Staff ~ 2 min read. Delusional disorder is characterized by the presence of either bizarre or non-bizarre delusions which have persisted for at least one month. Non-bizarre delusions typically are beliefs of something occurring in a person’s life which is not out of the realm of possibility. Outward behavior is not noticeably bizarre or objectively characterized as out-of-the-ordinary. The delusions can not be better accounted for by another disorder, such as schizophrenia, which is also characterized by delusions (which are bizarre). The delusions also cannot be better accounted for by a mood disorder, if the mood disturbances have been relatively brief
Delusional disorder is a psychiatric condition in which the patients present with delusions, but with no accompanying prominent hallucinations, thought disorder, mood disorder, or significant flattening of affect. Delusions are a specific symptom of psychosis. Delusions can be bizarre or non-bizarre in content. Diagnosis of a specific type of delusional disorder can sometimes be made based on the content of the delusions. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) enumerates seven types: 1  Erotomanic type (erotomania) : delusion that another person, often a prominent figure, is in love with the individual.