Lobar pneumonia is an acute exudative inflammation of an entire pulmonary lobe, produced in 95 % of cases by Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococci). If not treated, lobar pneumonia evolves in four stages. Common to all stages is the enlargement of the affected lobe with loss of it's spongy appearance. 1  In the first stage, congestion (day 1 - 2), the affected lung parenchyma is partially consolidated, and red-purple, partially aerated.
Noun. 1. lobar pneumonia-pneumonia affecting one or more lobes of the lung; commonly due to streptococcal infection. pneumonia-respiratory disease characterized by inflammation of the lung parenchyma (excluding the bronchi) with congestion caused by viruses or bacteria or irritants. Legionnaires' disease-acute (sometimes fatal) lobar pneumonia caused by bacteria of a kind first recognized after an outbreak of the disease at an American Legion convention in Philadelphia in 1976; characterized by fever and muscle and chest pain and headache and chills and a dry cough.
lobar pneumonia, a severe infection of one or more of the five major lobes of the lungs that, if untreated, eventually results in consolidation of lung tissue. The disease is characterized by fever, chills, cough, rusty sputum, rapid shallow breathing, cyanosis, nausea, vomiting, and pleurisy. lobar. pertaining to a lobe. congenital lobar emphysema. emphysema of one or more lung lobes usually the result of bronchial dysplasia or agenesis in the neonate.
1 It is more diffuse than lobar pneumonia. 2  Lobar pneumonia causes an inflammation of one lobe of a lung and typically involves all the airspaces in a single lobe. 3  Lipoid pneumonia is characterized by the accumulation of fats within the airspaces. 1 Lobar pneumonia causes an inflammation of one lobe of a lung and typically involves all the airspaces in a single lobe. 2
Medical Definition of LOBAR PNEUMONIA. : acute pneumonia involving one or more lobes of the lung characterized by sudden onset, chill, fever, difficulty in breathing, cough, and blood-stained sputum, marked by consolidation, and normally followed by resolution and return to normal of the lung tissue.
Lobar pneumonia is a form of pneumonia that affects a large and continuous area of the lobe of a lung. It is one of the two anatomic classifications of pneumonia (the other being bronchopneumonia). Lobar pneumonia usually has an acute progression. Classically, the disease has four stages: 1  Congestion in the first 24 hours: This stage is characterized histologically by vascular engorgement, intra-alveolar fluid, small numbers of neutrophils, often numerous bacteria. 2  Grossly, the lung is heavy and hyperemic.
pneumonia affecting one or more lobes, or part of a lobe, of the lung in which the consolidation is virtually homogeneous; often due to infection by Streptococcus pneumoniae; sputum is scanty and usually of a rusty tint because altered blood is present. lobar. pertaining to a lobe. congenital lobar emphysema. emphysema of one or more lung lobes usually the result of bronchial dysplasia or agenesis in the neonate.
Classified under: Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Hypernyms (lobar pneumonia is a kind of...): pneumonia (respiratory disease characterized by inflammation of the lung parenchyma (excluding the bronchi) with congestion caused by viruses or bacteria or irritants). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of lobar pneumonia): 
The other type of bacterial pneumonia is called a bronchopneumonia, which unlike the lobar-type, tends to affect both lungs, and rather than affecting a whole lobe, shows up little patches like cotton-wool on the x-ray. You usually don't see the pleural effusion that you might with a lobar pneumonia. 