Classifying products into meaningful categories helps marketers decide which strategies and methods will help promote a business’s product or service. Many types of classification exist. Considerations. The key is to categorize your products in ways that make sense for your business. This allows you to, for example, design separate marketing campaigns for each category of product you offer.
No simple recipe exists for categorizing products and services, but there are some common product classifications in marketing: convenience, shopping, specialty and unsought products, according to “The Advanced Dictionary of Marketing,” by Scott Dacko. Considerations. The key is to categorize your products in ways that make sense for your business. This allows you to, for example, design separate marketing campaigns for each category of product you offer.
Jupiterimages/Creatas/Getty Images. Classifying products into meaningful categories helps marketers decide which strategies and methods will help promote a business’s product or service. Many types of classification exist. For example, marketers might categorize products by how often they are used. Considerations. The key is to categorize your products in ways that make sense for your business. This allows you to, for example, design separate marketing campaigns for each category of product you offer.
1 The review is based on the criteria set forth in the MSCI Market Classification Framework. 2  There are no country indexes currently under review for a potential reclassification to Developed Markets as part of the 2016 Annual Market Classification Review. 
Related Topics: Research Methods and Tools. Marketers and marketing researchers have used standardized classifications for consumer demographics for some years. The principal reasons for doing so—comparing results across surveys and with known population distributions (e.g., Census data)—are well-known. 
One-time-use products, such as vacation packages, require completely different marketing strategies than products customers use repeatedly, such as bicycles. Product classification helps a business design and execute an effective marketing plan. Considerations. The key is to categorize your products in ways that make sense for your business. This allows you to, for example, design separate marketing campaigns for each category of product you offer.
Classification or Types of Market. The classification or types of market are depicted in the following chart. Image credits © Prof. Mudit Katyani. Generally, the market is classified on the basis of: 1  Place, 2  Time and. 3  Competition
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Product classifications help marketers focus their efforts using consumers’ buying behavior. Your business can use these buying habits to design your marketing efforts for a clearly defined target audience. Consumer products are often classified as convenience goods, shopping goods, specialty products or unsought goods. Although these classifications are named as types of products, focusing on how your customers buy these goods is equally important as you classify products and develop your marketing campaigns. Buyers for your specialty goods generally spend more time seeking the product they want than on comparing brands or products to make a value decision. Your marketing of specialty goods can be successful by promoting what you have on hand and where your costumers can find it.
Local Market. The market limited to a certain place of a country is called local market. This type of market locates in certain place of city or any area and supplies needs and wants of the local people. Perishable consumer products such as milk, vegetables, fruits, etc are sold and bought in local markets. On the basis of volume of business, type and size, market can be classified in wholesale market and retail market. i. Wholesale Market. If a large quantity of products are purchased from producers and sold to different retailers, this is called wholesale market.
caci acorn profiles of great britain. ACORN is a geodemographic (combining geographical and demographics analysis) classification of British social classes and is used by marketing professionals, entrepreneurs and researchers, to measure and target consumers and characteristics. The ACORN acronym meaning is 'A Classification Of Residential Neighbourhoods'. 