CRNA vs Anesthesiologist assistant. CRNA stands for Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist and AA stands for Anesthesiologist Assistant. Students studying under any of these fields will be giving anesthesia but there is lot of difference in their posts and responsibilities. We have got an overview of both the fields and the differences in the nature of work each of them performs. Nevertheless each field has its own importance. A CRNA can work individually while an AA is always an assistant to an anesthesiologist and cannot give anesthesia individually.
A nurse anesthetist or CRNA for short (certified registered nurse anesthetist) is a registered nurse that worked in a critical care area for at least 1 year (usually much more) before returning to school for 2+ years for specialty training in anesthesia. CRNAs are masters prepared. (except for older ones that trained prior to a masters degree requirement.) Both anesthesiologist and CRNAs are very educated and capable of delivering quality anesthesia care. The main difference in my opinion is that CRNAs bring compassion and a human touch into the anesthesia setting.
Hospital that have both Anesthesiologist Assistants and CRNAs employed at their institution in the Anesthesia Care Team (ACT), their jobs are identical and both are used interchangeably doing the same exact job. FACT: Anesthesiologist Assistants can train and teach SRNA (student nurse anesthetist) = CRNAs. Anesthesiologist Assistants also train and teach their own AA-S/RN,AA-S (student anesthetist/student nurse anesthetist) = AA-C/RN,AA-C.
A nurse assistant (CRNA) can work individually but an Anesthesiologist assistant (AA) always has to work under the guidance of an anesthesiologist. This is the chief difference between a CRNA and an AA. We have got an overview of both the fields and the differences in the nature of work each of them performs. Nevertheless each field has its own importance. A CRNA can work individually while an AA is always an assistant to an anesthesiologist and cannot give anesthesia individually.
Anesthetist Vs. Administering anesthesia is a demanding but rewarding career. If you think anesthesia is the career for you, you can choose to be a doctor, a nurse or an anesthesiologist assistant. Each career choice offers advantages that will benefit your individual talents and desires. 
An Anesthesiologist assistant is a non-physician who provides anesthesia but he has to work under the medical direction and supervision of an anesthesiologist. They can work in hospitals and clinics but they are a legal responsibility of the anesthesiologist. We have got an overview of both the fields and the differences in the nature of work each of them performs. Nevertheless each field has its own importance. A CRNA can work individually while an AA is always an assistant to an anesthesiologist and cannot give anesthesia individually.
Anesthesiologist Vs CRNA. There’s a small confusion between the practice of an anesthesiologist and a CRNA because they both deal with the usage of anesthetics. Nevertheless, they have distinct roles which are equally important. That’s why they collaborate with each other in caring for their patients.
The Anesthesiologist Assistant (AA) and Nurse Anesthetist (NA) have the same responsibilities. Both are integral members of the Anesthesia Care Team and function as anesthetists led by a qualified anesthesiologist. 
FACT: there is a nurse who is an Anesthesiologist Assistant and her title reads R.N., M.M.Sc., A.A.-C., she has thirteen (13) years experience as an Certified Anesthesiologist Assistant – Anesthetist and twenty-three (23) years experience as Registered Nurse. FACT: Anesthesiologist Assistants can train and teach SRNA (student nurse anesthetist) = CRNAs. Anesthesiologist Assistants also train and teach their own AA-S/RN,AA-S (student anesthetist/student nurse anesthetist) = AA-C/RN,AA-C.
A American Society of Anesthesiologists answered. An anesthesiologist is a physician who specializes in anesthesia care, and a nurse anesthetist is a nurse with extra training in administering anesthetics. Both work together on anesthesia care teams, led by anesthesiologists who make critical, medical decisions for patient care. 