Spiritual fasting is not a way to earn God's favor by getting him to do something for us. Rather, the purpose is to produce a transformation in us —a clearer, more focused attention and dependence upon God. Fasting is never to be a public display of spirituality—it is between you and God alone. The Purpose of Spiritual Fasting. While many people fast to lose weight, dieting is not the purpose of a spiritual fast. Instead, fasting provides unique spiritual benefits in the life of the believer. Fasting requires self-control and discipline as one denies the natural desires of the flesh.
If you are fasting before blood work, then that means you haven't eaten anything all day prior to your appointment. Fasting is meant to allow doctors to check other elements in your blood besides just the ones they are testing for. The doctor probably circled non-fasting to let you know that you can eat before the appointment without it affecting the results. Just do what you do every day (including eating food) on the day of your appointment, and you will be fine.
In a physiological context, fasting may refer to the metabolic status of a person who has not eaten overnight, or to the metabolic state achieved after complete digestion and absorption of a meal. Fasting is primarily a movement of willing abstinence or reduction from certain or all food, drink, or both, for a period of time. An absolute fast is normally defined as abstinence from all food and liquid for a defined period, usually a period of 24 hours, or a number of days.
Fasting is when you consume no food or drinks, with the exception of water, for a set period of time. It’s important to drink plenty of water, not just because you’re not eating, but because it’s easier to draw blood from your veins when you’re well hydrated. 
Answer: Fasting blood sugar is what it means -- it's fasting, you haven't eaten, and usually in the diabetes world that means that you haven't eaten for about eight hours before you have the test done. 
A frequent question I get from patients is to define the term “fasting” as it relates to bloodwork. The most common reason why your physician wants you to fast before bloodwork is to check your cholesterol (also referred to as lipids, HDL/LDL, triglycerides) and blood sugar to test for diabetes. 
Fasting can be used for nearly every chronic condition, including allergies, anxiety, arthritis, asthma, depression, diabetes, headaches, heart disease, high cholesterol, low blood sugar, digestive disorders, mental illness, and obesity. Fasting is an effective and safe weight loss method. The body has a special mechanism that is initiated when no food is eaten. Fasting is not starvation, but rather the body's burning of stored energy. Starvation occurs when the body no longer has any stored energy and begins using essential tissues such as organs for an energy source.
Best Answer: To know the status of your blood sugar it is tested by three type 1- Fasting means overnight fast of at least 9 hrs 2- Postprandial means 2hrs after meal 3- non fasting or random means which has no relation with your food. Source(s): i am a diabetologist. drp · 2 years ago. Thumbs up. The doctor probably circled non-fasting to let you know that you can eat before the appointment without it affecting the results. Just do what you do every day (including eating food) on the day of your appointment, and you will be fine.
Fasting blood glucose: A test to determine how much glucose (sugar) is in a blood sample after an overnight fast. The fasting blood glucose test is commonly used to detect diabetes mellitus. A blood sample is taken in a lab, physician's office, or hospital. The test is done in the morning, before the person has eaten. 