The easiest way to soften butter is to remove a cold stick from the refrigerator and let it stand at room temperature for 30 to 60 minutes until it becomes room temperature or until just spreadable.
1 Place the plate into the microwave and heat on high power for 5 seconds. 2  Open microwave give the stick 1/4 turn (meaning, pick it up and flip it over onto its side) and heat again for 5 seconds. 3  Do this on all four long sides of the stick(s) of butter. 4  Typically after about 20-25 seconds my butter is perfect.
Allow the grated butter to stand at room temperature for 10 to 15 minutes to soften. Place a sheet of waxed paper onto a flat surface. Place a stick of cold butter in the center of the waxed paper and cover it with another sheet of waxed paper.
It depends on the room temperature where you live. At 65F (18C) or below, butter is often barely spreadable and will last for weeks on the counter in a sealed container. At 80F (26C), it starts to get overly soft and doesn't last more than several days.
The Cube Method. If you have a little bit of time on your hands, you can cut the stick(s) of butter into fourths and then cube into small pieces. The smaller the cubes, the quicker the butter will soften. Just leave them at room temperature for about an hour or until soft to the touch.
How long will it take to bring these ingredients to room temperature? 30 minutes on the countertop should do it if your kitchen is between 65˚ and 70˚. If your house is chilly, wait a little longer. If it is warm, it may only take 15 or 20 minutes.
Within no time, your butter will be soft and ready to be added to your favorite recipe. This grating method also works wonders when a recipe calls for frozen butter such as scones and pie doughs. And there you have it, my not so technical methods of bringing ingredients to room temperature on the fly.
Thaw frozen butter for 6 to 7 hours in the refrigerator or 3 to 4 hours at room temperature. Note: Thawing butter in the oven or microwave is not recommended unless your recipe calls for melted butter. Refreezing thawed butter is not a good idea as it will diminish its flavour.