Q19: What information is available on Where's My Refund? Information on Where's My Refund? is for the most recent tax year we have on file for you. You can check on the status of your refund 24 hours after you e-file. If you filed a paper return, please allow 4 weeks before checking on the status. Even though we issue most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. Also, if you are anticipating a refund, take into consideration the time it takes for your financial institution to post the refund to your account, or for mail delivery.
Refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you use e-File, but you may have to wait a bit longer this year due to staff cutbacks within the IRS. Mailing your return in and requesting a paper check is the least speedy choice, slowing down your refund by several weeks. How long will your tax refund take and how much will you get back? The IRS started accepting returns on January 20, but refunds may take longer than normal this year.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return.
1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 2  You will not see a refund date until the IRS finishes processing your tax return and approves your tax refund. 
Q2: What is the best and fastest way to get information about my refund? Use the IRS2Go mobile app or the Where’s My Refund? tool. You can start checking on the status of your tax return within 24 hours after we have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return. Even though we issue most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. Also, if you are anticipating a refund, take into consideration the time it takes for your financial institution to post the refund to your account, or for mail delivery.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return. 1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return.
Depends when u filed. Normally takes two weeks to receive your refund. I've been using Turbo Tax E-File. Just go to irs.gov and click on the link Where's My Refund. 
1 You will not be able to start checking the status of your tax refund for 4 weeks if you mail a paper tax return. 2  Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return.