In simple terms, DHCP determines if your IP is static or dynamic and the length of time an IP address is assigned. Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol is controlled by a DHCP server. Your router can be a DHCP server...and if you're on a home network, it most likely serves this purpose. Your ISP has a DHCP server. They can assign IPs by modem MAC addresses. When your modem comes online, it communicates to the network indicating it is looking for an IP address. The DHCP server listens to this communication and starts talking to the modem.
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a network protocol that enables a server to automatically assign an IP address to a computer from a defined range of numbers (i.e., a scope) configured for a given network. DHCP assigns an IP address when a system is started, for example: 1  A user turns on a computer with a DHCP client. 2  The client computer sends a broadcast request (called a DISCOVER or DHCPDISCOVER), looking for a DHCP server to answer. 1 A user turns on a computer with a DHCP client. 2  The client computer sends a broadcast request (called a DISCOVER or DHCPDISCOVER), looking for a DHCP server to answer. 3  The router directs the DISCOVER packet to the correct DHCP server. 4  The server receives the DISCOVER packet.
The DHCP server maintains a pool of IP addresses and leases an address to any DHCP-enabled client when it starts up on the network. Because the IP addresses are dynamic (leased) rather than static (permanently assigned), addresses no longer in use are automatically returned to the pool for reallocation. 1 A valid IP address for the subnet to which it is connecting. 2  Requested DHCP options, which are additional parameters that a DHCP server is configured to assign to clients. 3  Some examples of DHCP options are Router (default gateway), DNS Servers, and DNS Domain Name.
A DHCP server is one computer on the network that has a number of IP address at its disposal to assign to the computers/hosts on that network. If you use a cable company for Internet access, making them your Internet Service Provider, they likely are your DHCP server. When DHCP assigns an IP address, it actually leases that connection identifier to the user's computer for a specific amount of time. The default lease is five days. Here is how the DHCP process works when you go online: 1  Your go on your computer to connect to the Internet.
DHCP, Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, is a communications protocol that dynamically assigns unique IP addresses to network devices. 
DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) is a communications protocol that network administrators use to centrally manage and automate the network configuration of devices attaching to an Internet Protocol (IP) network. Download this buyer’s guide to discover what to look for in cloud-based UC solutions. 
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) is a client/server protocol that automatically provides an Internet Protocol (IP) host with its IP address and other related configuration information such as the subnet mask and default gateway. 1 A valid IP address for the subnet to which it is connecting. 2  Requested DHCP options, which are additional parameters that a DHCP server is configured to assign to clients. 3  Some examples of DHCP options are Router (default gateway), DNS Servers, and DNS Domain Name.
The DHCP server maintains a pool of IP addresses and leases an address to any DHCP-enabled client when it logs on to the network. Because the IP addresses are dynamic (leased) rather than static (permanently assigned), addresses no longer in use are automatically returned to the pool for reallocation. The DHCP standard provides for the use of DHCP servers, which are defined as any computer running the DHCP service. The DHCP server automatically allocates IP addresses and related TCP/IP configuration settings to DHCP-enabled clients on
Oli Kellett/Taxi/Getty Images. Definition: DHCP allows a computer to join an IP-based network without having a pre-configured IP address. DHCP is a protocol that assigns unique IP addresses to devices, then releases and renews these addresses as devices leave and re-join the network. DHCP environments require a DHCP server set up with the appropriate configuration parameters for the given network. Key DHCP parameters include the range or pool of available IP addresses, the correct subnet masks, plus network gateway and name server addresses.
1 Dynamic allocation: a network administrator reserves a range of IP addresses for DHCP, and each DHCP client on the LAN is configured to request an IP address from the DHCP server during network initialization. Depending on implementation, the DHCP server may have three methods of allocating IP addresses: 1 