Mica, both scrap and flake, can be found all over the world. In the United States, mica is produced in Arizona, North Carolina, South Dakota, Georgia, New Mexico, and South Carolina. The production in North Carolina accounts for half of the total U.S. mica production.
Mica. Images: Type: mineral_group. Description: Mica is a mineral name given to a group of minerals that are physically and chemically similar. They are all silicate minerals, known as sheet silicates because they form in distinct layers. Micas are fairly light and relatively soft, and the sheets and flakes of mica are flexible. Mica is heat-resistant and does not conduct electricity. There are 37 different mica minerals. The most common include: purple lepidolite, black biotite, brown phlogopite and clear muscovite.
Mica Mineral. The Western North Carolina area of the Appalachian Mountains is a place where an abundance of mica sheets have been found and mined for centuries. The Mica Mineral is a group of sheet silicate minerals that has proven quite useful for use as a glass alternative and other insulation.
Mica is quite rarely found in European countries, therefore in the previous centuries it was quite expensive and regularly shipped from locations where it was found. It has been said that even back in the 1700's mica was being mined in the Spruce Pine NC Gem Mining District and being shipped over to Europe. The Western North Carolina area of the Appalachian Mountains is a place where an abundance of mica sheets have been found and mined for centuries. The Mica Mineral is a group of sheet silicate minerals that has proven quite useful for use as a glass alternative and other insulation.
Amethyst. Violet quartz gemstone colored by inclusions of hematite or other minerals, found in Stokes, Burke, Lincoln, Iredell, Moore, Warren, and Franklin Counties. Southeast Macon County’s Tessentee Creek was originally operated by Tiffany and Company of New York around 1900. Used early on as a form of window glass (called isinglass), mica was first mined in Mitchell County in 1858 and in Jackson County in 1867. North Carolina produces two-thirds of the nation’s scrap mica, which found numerous industrial uses in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Olivine.
Igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rocks are all found in North Carolina. Minerals such as gold, emerald, granite, feldspar, mica, and pyrophyllite are found in North Carolina. North Carolina leads the nation in the production of feldspar, mica and pyrophyllite. Mining alone is a half-billion dollar industry in North Carolina. Gold. Granite is another rock found in North Carolina. The granite was named the official state rock in 1979. Granite is used for monuments, and stones for buildings. The largest open-faced granite quarry in the world is located at Mount Airy, North Carolina.
NC Gem Mining. NC Gem Mining is a favorite activity of visitors to Western North Carolina as well as those that would deem themselves to be locals. Rock hounds from all over the world descend on Western North Carolina to mine for gemstones and valuable rocks. 
3 of packet, changes into 4). (pg.3)Some examples of rocks would be anything from actinolite to wollastite. Over 80 different rocks and minerals have been discovered in the mountain region of N.C. alone. The most commonly found minerals in North Carolina are feldspar, mica, and pyrophyllite. Also, the largest emerald crystal ever discovered in North America came from North Carolina. The emerald is the states official precious stone. Now for soils, there are a whole lot. 