Classic Masonry Ltd. in Putnam Valley, NY. The cost of paving a new driveway is largely dependent on size, materials and labor and can fall anywhere between fifty cents a square foot and fifty dollars a square foot. When choosing driveway paving materials it is important to compare upfront prices to long-term costs. 
[news]. Could anyone please share what prices they are paying/have paid (or have been quoted) for their paving *base*. I have approx 100sq/m of patio in rear garden, and a further 100sq/m of block-paving for the driveway at front of house (so 200sq/m total). I have been given an approx cost of £80sq/m just for the base-so if using a £20-30sq/m slab the total would be £100-110sq/m. 
Since October 2008 it has been a legal requirement to obtain planning permission if you want to pave over your front garden. If the surface to be covered is more than five square metres then you will need planning permission for block paving. This is the case regardless of whether it is a new or replacement driveway. Print Page. Summary: How much does block paving cost, average block paving installation costs and average cost of block paving materials. Block paving is a popular choice for driveways, paths and patios as it is very neat and provides a professional looking surface for many years.
This page is all about driveway costs, more specifically the price you can expect to pay for a new block paved driveway. You can find our complete price list here on this page. The actual laying of the blocks can be done by one or two skilled people during the remaining days of the project. For a driveway of 55 square metres expect the work to take roughly 4 days.
The cost to pave an average concrete driveway varies by location, shape, size, concrete reinforcement material, labor rates, and decorative quality of the finish. A typical two-car driveway is 16 feet wide and 38 feet long without curves or slope, for a total surface area of 610 square feet. It will typically cost $4.99 per square foot to be professionally supplied and paved with concrete. The DIY Material Cost is around $2.59 per square foot. 1 Decorative effects in concrete are available and include colored concrete for an average cost of $40 per cubic yard ($260 in this example) and embossed concrete for average cost of $1.70 per square foot ($1,037 in this example).
Labor Costs. When looking at the cost of a paver driveway, homeowners must factor in any labor costs. For an average 1,000 square foot driveway, the labor can cost $2,500 or more, which adds an additional $2.50 per square foot to the overall cost of the driveway. This assumes that the contractor completes the job within five days with a crew of up to five men
show more Hi guys, what is the average cost for block paving here in the UK, my friend told me between 55 and 65 a square metres but why such a big difference and how do I find a company that charges 55, because my driveway is over 100 square metres and the difference in price is over a £1000. Problem is, If I have to pay... Next. Hi guys, what is the average cost for block paving here in the UK, my friend told me between 55 and 65 a square metres but why such a big difference and how do I find a company that charges 55, because my driveway is over 100 square metres and the difference in price is over a £1000.
Mass production techniques have reduced the prices of manufactured blocks to a reasonable level, and made this type of paving affordable to most projects. In fact, concrete block paving costs only £3-6 per m² more than plain flags/slabs, when laid to a domestic driveway. Brick or Block paving can be used anywhere. 
Calculate the cost of your driveway or patio. This paving cost calculator can be used as a guide price for your driveway, patio or block paving project. The final price of your project will be determined by the style of paving blocks you choose, the size of the area and the type of finish selected. 