How Many Types of Hepatitis Are There. Posted by: admin Posted date: May 20, 2012 In: Health | Comment: 0 | 3,849 views. There were seven hypothetical forms of hepatitis A, B, C, D, E, F and G. A, B, and C are very well known strains. F has been discredited and G’s actual viral qualities are under question. E is very localized into small regions. Hepatitis E. Hepatitis E is a viral hepatitis (liver inflammation) caused by infection with a virus called hepatitis E virus (HEV). HEV is a positive-sense single-stranded RNA icosahedral virus with a 7.5 kilobase genome. HEV has a fecal-oral transmission route.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. There are two types of hepatitis B, acute (short-lived) and chronic (long-lived). Acute hepatitis B symptoms can last from a few days up to six months. Most symptoms of acute hepatitis are mild. It's possible to have acute or chronic hepatitis without feeling ill or having any symptoms. 
Report Abuse. There is 5 different types of hepatitis. The most common are Type A and Type B. Type C is alot harder to contract because it is a blood to blood infection.
There are at least six types of viral hepatitis, each of which is caused by a different hepatitis virus. Hepatitis is a medical term that means inflammation of the liver. It can be caused by many different things. Some of these types have similar symptoms and cause similar infections. Hepatitis is a medical term that means inflammation of the liver. It can be caused by many different things. However, one of the most common causes of hepatitis is an infection with a virus.
1 Viruses that primarily attack the liver are called hepatitis viruses. 2  There are several types of hepatitis viruses including types A, B, C, D, E, and possibly G. Types A, B, and C are the most common. 3  All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 4  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 1 All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 2  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 3  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized.
Hepatitis A, B, and C are the most common types of viral hepatitis in the United States. Hepatitis A is caused by an infection with the hepatitis A virus (HAV). This is a single-stranded RNA virus from the family Picornaviridae and genus hepatovirus. Some of these types have similar symptoms and cause similar infections. Hepatitis is a medical term that means inflammation of the liver. It can be caused by many different things. However, one of the most common causes of hepatitis is an infection with a virus.
The most common hepatitis viruses are types A, B, and C. Reference to the hepatitis viruses often occurs in an abbreviated form (for example, HAV, HBV, HCV represent hepatitis viruses A, B, and C, respectively.) The focus of this article is on these viruses that cause the majority of human viral hepatitis. 1 All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 2  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 3  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized.
Best Answer: There are 5 different types. Type A hepatitis is contracted through anal-oral contact, by coming in contact with the feces of someone with hepatitis A, or by eating or drinking hepatitis A contaminated food or water. There is 5 different types of hepatitis. The most common are Type A and Type B. Type C is alot harder to contract because it is a blood to blood infection.
Hepatitis A, B, and C are the most common types of viral hepatitis in the United States. Hepatitis is a medical term that means inflammation of the liver. It can be caused by many different things. However, one of the most common causes of hepatitis is an infection with a virus. This is known as viral hepatitis. Some of these types have similar symptoms and cause similar infection
Hepatitis is a common disease that inflames the liver, an important organ for metabolism and breaking down food in the digestive system. To date, there are at least five different types of viral hepatitis: A, B, C, D and E. Hepatitis A. Hepatitis A is spread by either direct contact with an infected person’s feces or by indirect fecal contamination of food or water. Symptoms include: 1  fever. 2  dark urine. 3  light stool