Azo compounds are compounds bearing the functional group R-N=N-R', in which R and R' can be either aryl or alkyl. IUPAC defines azo compounds as: Derivatives of diazene (diimide), HN=NH, wherein both hydrogens are substituted by hydrocarbyl groups, e.g. PhN=NPh azobenzene or diphenyldiazene.. The more stable derivatives contain two aryl groups. Aliphatic azo compounds (R and/or R' = aliphatic) are less commonly encountered than the aryl azo compounds. A commercially important alkyl azo compound is azobisisobutyronitrile (AIBN), which is widely used as an initiator in free radical polymerizations and other radical-induced reactions.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: An azo compound is a compound containing a diazene molecule (HN=NH) where the hydrogen atoms are replaced with alkyl or aryl groups. The general formula for an azo compound is R-N=N-R'. 
Contain the-N=N-group. Where R and R’ are arene groups more stable than alkyl groups. Azo group is stabilised by becoming part of extended delocalised system. Result of a coupling reaction between a diazonium salt and a coupling agent. Diazonium salts Only stable salts are aromatic-not particularly stable. Important use as dyes. Coupling with phenols Benzenediazonium salt and alkaline phenol gives a yellow orange azo compound Benzenediazonium salt and alkaline naphthalen-2-ol gives a red azo compound. Coupling with amines Diazonium salts couple with arylamines.
Azo compounds are derivatives of diazene (diimide), HN=NH, wherein both hydrogens are substituted by unsaturated hydrocarbon groups, e.g. PhN=NPh azobenzene or diphenyldiazene. Sigma-Aldrich offers azo and diazo compounds as alkyl and aryl derivatives. Azo compounds are good oxidizing agents and can be readily reduced back to hydrazine or primary amine.
Diazo compounds have two linked nitrogen atoms (azo) as a terminal functional group. Sigma-Aldrich offers azo and diazo compounds as alkyl and aryl derivatives. Azo compounds are good oxidizing agents and can be readily reduced back to hydrazine or primary amine. Additionally, azo compounds have been utilized in various biological assays, as coupling agents, and in synthetic dyes
Diazo refers to a type of organic compound called diazo compound that has two linked nitrogen atoms (azo) as a terminal functional group. The general formula is R 2 C=N 2. The simplest example of a diazo compound is diazomethane. Four resonance structures can be drawn: Diazo compounds should not be confused with azo compounds of the type R-N=N-R or with diazonium compounds of the type R-N 2 + .
Azo Compounds. We now offer a broad range of Azo Compounds. Azo Compounds bear the functional group R-N=N-R’ where R and R’ can be aryl or aromatic. Azo compounds are often brightly colored and commonly employed as dyes. The development of azo dyes has been attributed to the birth of the chemical industry. Our popular products such as Trypan Blue, Congo Red, and Methyl Orange are typically available for immediate shipment.
Where R and R’ are arene groups more stable than alkyl groups. Azo group is stabilised by becoming part of extended delocalised system. Result of a coupling reaction between a diazonium salt and a coupling agent. Coloured precipitate of azo compound immediately forms. Important use as dyes. Coupling with phenols Benzenediazonium salt and alkaline phenol gives a yellow orange azo compound Benzenediazonium salt and alkaline naphthalen-2-ol gives a red azo compound.