Pitch and frequency are the same thing. Frequency is the generic  term describing the number of waves per unit time. With audio  waves, we experience more waves per unit tim … e (a higher frequency)  as a higher pitch. High-frequency tones are perceived as being of high pitch while low-frequency tones are said to be of low pitch. The relationship between pitch and frequency is however, not a simple linear one.
The pitch increases with frequency. Thus, the frequency of middle C  is 256 Hz, and the frequency of the A above is 440 Hz. There is,  however, no simple mathematical relationship between pitch and  frequency.        frequency causes the different types of pitch
The pitch of a sound you hear depends on the frequency of the sound wave. A high frequency sound wave has a high pitch, and a low frequency sound wave has a low pitch. For example, soprano singers stretch their vocal cords, so they vibrate more quickly as the air rushes by them, which creates higher-frequency sound waves that have a higher pitch. 
It is the sound quality most closely related to the frequency of a pure tone. High-frequency tones are perceived as being of high p … itch while low-frequency tones are said to be of low pitch. The relationship between pitch and frequency is however, not a simple linear one. Thus, the frequency of middle C  is 256 Hz, and the frequency of the A above is 440 Hz. There is,  however, no simple mathematical relationship between pitch and  frequency.
The sensation of a frequency is commonly referred to as the pitch of a sound. A high pitch sound corresponds to a high frequency sound wave and a low pitch sound corresponds to a low frequency sound wave. Amazingly, many people, especially those who have been musically trained, are capable of detecting a difference in frequency between two separate sounds that is as little as 2 Hz.
Pitch and frequency are two concepts discussed in physics and music. Frequency is the number of repetitive occurrences per unit time whereas pitch is an intuitive concept associated with the frequency of a sound wave. These concepts are widely used in fields such as acoustics, music, waves and vibrations and various other fields. 
Pitch is a subjective dimension of hearing. It is the sound quality most closely related to the frequency of a pure tone. High-frequency tones are perceived as being of high pitch while low-frequency tones are said to be of low pitch. The relationship between pitch and frequency is however, not a simple linear one.
The frequency of a wave is measured as the number of complete back-and-forth vibrations of a particle of the medium per unit of time. If a particle of air undergoes 1000 longitudinal vibrations in 2 seconds, then the frequency of the wave would be 500 vibrations per second. A high pitch sound corresponds to a high frequency sound wave and a low pitch sound corresponds to a low frequency sound wave. Amazingly, many people, especially those who have been musically trained, are capable of detecting a difference in frequency between two separate sounds that is as little as 2 Hz.