The northern part of Belize is mostly low-lying and swampy with a dense tropical rainforest. The Maya Mountains are located in Southern Belize and the highest point is Victoria Peak at 1122m. The Mayan Mountains form the watershed for thousands of streams and rivers such as the Belize and Honda Rivers. The most populated are is the Belize District where more than one third of the population resides. The Belizean population, in the early 1900 s was very unevenly divided, men outnumbered women in every age group. In the 40 s and 50 s most emigrants were male, however, since 1980 the majority has turned to women.
Where is Belize, in South America? That is the question most people ask when first hearing about Belize. Contrary to what some people think, Belize is not in South America, nor Africa. It is, however, situated in the heart of Central America. 
Getting back on topic, let me briefly explain where you can find Belize: Belize is located in Central America, which is also part of North America. Central America is the narrow piece of land bordered by the Pacific Ocean on the West and the Caribbean Sea on the East, and connects North America to South America. So you’re here because you’ve heard about Belize but aren’t sure where it is located. I have good news, you’re not alone; almost two million people from around the world search for the phrase: where is Belize on a monthly basis, and this is on Google alone.
Belize is bordered by Mexico to the north and Guatemala to the west and south. Belize consists of a land area of 8,867 square miles and is known for having the longest living Barrier Reef in the world that stretches out along the Eastern Coast of Belize. The most populated are is the Belize District where more than one third of the population resides. The Belizean population, in the early 1900 s was very unevenly divided, men outnumbered women in every age group. In the 40 s and 50 s most emigrants were male, however, since 1980 the majority has turned to women.
With the Caribbean sea to the East, Belize is located south of Mexico, east of Guatemala, and just a short two hour flight from either Miami or Houston. 
Belize (/bəˈliːz/) is a country on the eastern coast of Central America. It is the only country in Central America whose official language is English, though Belizean Creole (Kriol) and Spanish are also commonly spoken. Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico, on the south and west by Guatemala, and on the east by the Caribbean Sea. Its mainland is about 290 km (180 mi) long and 110 km (68 mi) wide
Cayo takes up Western Belize. The Belize District (Belize City) and the islands of Belize (Caye Caulker, Ambergris Caye) are to the East. And Southern Belize consists of Stann Creek (Placencia, Hopkins) and Toledo. Yes it’s a small country but the terrain is diverse and there’s so much to explore. So you’re here because you’ve heard about Belize but aren’t sure where it is located. I have good news, you’re not alone; almost two million people from around the world search for the phrase: where is Belize on a monthly basis, and this is on Google alone.
Belize is located on the East Coast of northern Central America. Belize shares a border on the north with Mexico and the state of Quintana Roo, on the south with the Guatemalan Department of Izabal, on the east with the Caribbean and on the west with the Guatemalan Department of Peten. See map of Belize. Flights to Belize from gateway cities in the US make Belize easily accessible with non-stop flights of just under 2 hours from Miami, Houston and Dallas-Ft. Worth. Belize is also served from Atlanta, Charlotte, Los Angeles, New York and Washington, DC, as well as Toronto, Canada ... more.
Geography. Belize is located in Central America and it is bordered to the north by Mexico, to the south and west by Guatemala and to the east by the Caribbean Sea. We are a diverse country with various cultures and languages.
Belize City is the largest city in the Central American country of Belize and was once the capital of the former British Honduras. According to the 2010 census, Belize City has a population of 57,169 people in 16,162 households. It is located at the mouth of the Haulover Creek, which is a tributary of the Belize River. 