What's the difference between the two popular white-powder cleaners, Bar Keepers Friend and Bon Ami? Learn exactly how each one works, the jobs it does best—and the jobs it wasn't meant to do. 
Bon Ami uses calcium carbonate as the abrasive, and barkeepers friend uses oxalic acid as its cleaning agent and a non-soluble (unspecified) abrasive. Bar Keepers friend is aimed as hard surfaces, Bon Ami at softer surfaces. Keep BKF away from chlorine containing cleaners. 
Bon Ami Powder Cleanser’s new label is a bold interpretation of the classic red banner and Bon Ami’s famous just-hatched chick. The paper and steel package contains a high percentage of post-consumer recycled paper and can be recycled again. Powder Cleanser. But kitchens and bathrooms have changed, and need an updated cleaner. Bon Ami Powder Cleanser is the answer. This formula starts with vegan, plant-based cleaning agents made from coconut and corn oils, then adds feldspar and the even softer abrasive, limestone.
beth4. What an old, old dependable product Bon Ami is, and I've used it for 40+ years....it's getting harder to find it now, so when I do find it I buy a lot of it. I've also used Bar Keepers' Friend....My preference is Bon Ami because it's very gentle on all surfaces, leaving no scratches of any kind, yet cleans well. I often make a paste of Bon Ami and apply it to whatever I'm cleaning. Bon Ami is a very gentle abrasive, so you can safely clean all surfaces with it. I use Bon Ami in the bath tubs, sinks and the kitchen stainless steel sink. And, sometimes I use it on the top of my Wolf range. I've only used Bon Ami for the tub so far-beth4 - glad to hear all the places you've successfully used it-I will try it on my sink-thank you! Like Bookmark December 23, 2011 at 4:00PM. Thank you for reporting this comment.
Bar Keepers Friend is incompatible with chlorine bleach and detergents, so keep that in mind when using this cleaner. Bon Ami has no known incompatibilities. Although I will still purchase my Bon Ami when I can, I think that Bar Keepers Friend makes a good second choice. Bar Keepers Friend all purpose soft cleanser is ideal for tackling tough rust, lime deposits, and other stains in your bathroom, kitchen, and more! Thanks to its non-bleach formula, this soft cleanser is free of harsh fumes and is even safe for use o...
3. Seventh Generation: Of all the eco-friendly companies, Seventh Generation probably has the largest line of products, including cleaners, laundry care, toilet paper and even baby care items. 4. Bon Ami or Bar Keeper's Friend: Both of these brands make great non-toxic alternatives for powdered cleaners. 5. Dr. Bronner's: Known as 'magic' liquid castile soap, Dr. Bronner's is definitely a do-it-all cleaner. It can be used as-is on its own, diluted, or mixed with other items to clean just about anything. 
The recipe was simple: tallow soap and feldspar. Bon Ami’s innovation was adding the more gentle abrasive powder feldspar to make a soap that was effective at cleaning but gentle on surfaces. We still make the 1886 Formula Cleaning Powder the same way. We find that many customers prefer this formula for specialty uses. Powder Cleanser. But kitchens and bathrooms have changed, and need an updated cleaner. Bon Ami Powder Cleanser is the answer. This formula starts with vegan, plant-based cleaning agents made from coconut and corn oils, then adds feldspar and the even softer abrasive, limestone.
In this video I will compare the cleaning products barkeepers friend against Bon Ami. These products are know as the 2 best kitchen cleaners on the market. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
My ex gave me a bottle of the liquid Bar Keeper's Friend. It works well on stainless cookwear and on soap scum on tile. I can't seem to find Bon Ami anymore. My ex gave me a bottle of the liquid Bar Keeper's Friend. 
There are a lot of references to Bar Keeper's Friend on this site -- is Bon Ami considered to be as good? We have several containers of Bon Ami that were left by our house's previous owners, so it would be great if I could count on it as much as so many of you seem to count on BKF... 