Merlot Wine. Merlot is a red wine variety with strong historic ties to Bordeaux and the southwest of France. It is the predominant variety in most wines from Saint-Emilion and Pomerol, the area in which the variety originated. Merlot is often dismissed as a reliable blending variety. It is often used to great effect in this capacity, and is responsible (alongside Cabernet Sauvignon) for some of the most famous wines in the world. However, it is also widely used to make varietal wines at all quality tiers, mostly in the New World.
Merlot, which in French means The Little Blackbird, is the second most popular red grape in America. It is believed that the first time the grape was used in making wine was in the late 1700s when a French winemaker in the Bordeaux region formally labeled the grape as an ingredient in his Bordeaux wine blend. As the popularity of Bordeaux wine spread across the globe, so too did Merlot. When the grape arrived in California in the mid-nineteenth century, instead of being blended with Cabernet Sauvignon, American winemakers began making wines using 100% Merlot.
Merlot is a dark blue-colored wine grape variety, that is used as both a blending grape and for varietal wines. The name Merlot is thought to be a diminutive of merle, the French name for the blackbird, probably a reference to the color of the grape. Merlot is also one of the most popular red wine varietals in many markets. This flexibility has helped to make it one of the world's most planted grape varieties. As of 2004, Merlot was estimated to be the third most grown variety at 260,000 hectares (640,000 acres) globally, with an increasing trend
Merlot. Merlot is the second most widely-planted black wine grape in the world.1 Most major wine-producing country have Merlot vineyards, including Argentina, Australia, Austria, Chile, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, New Zealand, South Africa, Spain, the United States, and of course France.
Merlot and Cabernet, they’re the two most popular red wines in America, but many people don’t know what makes each of them different and unique, or why you might prefer one to the other, so we’re here to help. Both Merlot and Cabernet were born in Bordeaux, France and they quickly came to dominate the famous wine region, though depending on what side of the Gironde river you live on, you’re more likely to grow more Cabernet or more Merlot.
Merlot is a varietal that contains at least 13.5% alcohol, but can approach 14.5%, especially when it is grown in a warmer climate such as Australia, California or Chile. The wine is often said to have a plummy taste and notes of chocolate. It’s also considered to be smooth and very easy to drink. As the popularity of Bordeaux wine spread across the globe, so too did Merlot. When the grape arrived in California in the mid-nineteenth century, instead of being blended with Cabernet Sauvignon, American winemakers began making wines using 100% Merlot.
Top Rated Merlot. Merlot is the most widely cultivated grape in the Bordeaux region. The name is derivative of an Old French word for young blackbird (“merle”), probably to indicate the dark color of the grape. 
Merlot, which in French means The Little Blackbird, is the second most popular red grape in America (after Cabernet Sauvignon). Known for being soft, ripe and elegant, most Merlots are easy drinking reds that go well both with food as well as on their own. As the popularity of Bordeaux wine spread across the globe, so too did Merlot. When the grape arrived in California in the mid-nineteenth century, instead of being blended with Cabernet Sauvignon, American winemakers began making wines using 100% Merlot.