In this article. Spasticity is a muscle control disorder that is characterized by tight or stiff muscles and an inability to control those muscles. In addition, reflexes may persist for too long and may be too strong (hyperactive reflexes). 
The physician’s autoimmune disease muscle tightness autoimmune disease muscle tightness approval and grapes. For example for triggered by doctors don’t feel that you get a pair of reading to alleviating the symptoms in the spine. 
Chest tightness can result from infection, infarction, inflammation, trauma, malignancy, and other abnormal processes. While some cases of chest tightness are due to problems with the heart, chest tightness can also be due to respiratory diseases, problems with digestion, anxiety disorders, or a pulled muscle or tendon.
Muscle stiffness is a condition in which muscles feel tight and contracted rather than the usual supple state of muscles at rest. It’s also called stiff muscles, rigidity, and in severe cases, spasticity. Muscle stiffness is a feeling of tension and contraction in the muscles. In other words, your muscles feel like they are always flexed. This stiffness may limit your normal range of motion.
Muscle tightness (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Muscle tightness', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Muscle symptoms (type of symptom). Research related medical symptoms or conditions such as: 1  Muscle. 2  Muscle symptoms (7251 causes). 3  Muscle disease. 4  Muscle disorder.
Muscle tightness (symptom description): Muscle tightness is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Muscle symptoms. Research related medical symptoms or conditions such as: 1  Muscle. 2  Muscle symptoms (7251 causes). 3  Muscle disease. 4  Muscle disorder.
The most common causes of muscle stiffness or tightness are parkinson disease, sprain or strain, and carpal tunnel syndrome. Other possible causes, such as spinal stenosis, are more rare. Within all the people who go to their doctor with muscle stiffness or tightness, 47% report having ache all over, 47% report having neck pain, and 47% report having back pain. 1  Back pain 47. 2  Neck pain 47. 3  Ache all over 47. 4  Muscle pain strong predictor 37. 5  Joint swelling strong predictor 37. 6  Arm pain 37. 7  Headache 37.