Diatoms are microscopic plants (phytoplankton) found in oceans and lakes. Their cell wall is made of http://wiki.answers.com/wiki/Silica which remain after the diatom dies. Th … e skeletons of these creatures are found in only a few areas of the land. Lompoc (Lom-poke) is one area that the creatures are mined. 
It is the shell that is used in species identification and comparison. All diatom skeletons are made of silica and consist of two parts or frustules that fit inside each other like a petri dish: the epitheca and the hypotheca (Alexopoulos, 1967). The hypotheca is smaller and fits inside the larger epitheca. Similar to many other algae, they can live as unicellular organisms, colonial, or filamentous. Unlike most algae, though, they have a solid shells made of silica. Because of such shells, diatoms have major economic importance in industry while also having a major role in biological and chemical processes.
Living diatoms often have specific salinity, temperature and other environmental tolerences, this together with the fact that a high proportion of fossil genera and species are still extant, makes it possible to use transfer functions to produce accurate palaeonvironmental reconstructions. Many diatoms are heterovalvate, i.e., the two valves of the frustule are dissimilar. This is most obvious within the family Achnanthaceae where one valve has a raphe and the other does not, and the Cymatosiraceae where one valve has a tubular process and the other does not.
The cell wall is called a frustule and consists of two halves called valves. Since silica is impervious, diatoms have evolved elaborate patterns of perforations in their valves to allow nutrient and waste exchange with the environment. Ecology. Diatoms are abundant in nearly every habitat where water is found – oceans, lakes, streams, mosses, soils, even the bark of trees. These algae form part of the base of aquatic food webs in marine and freshwater habitats.
Home / Diatoms. General Biology: The diatoms live in glass houses (frustules), and are often dominant both in the oceans and estuaries (along with dinoflagellates) and in freshwater lakes and streams. On a global scale they have been estimated to produce ~ 50% of all photosynthesis. 
A very common use for diatoms is for filtration. The fine structures of diatom shells trap foreign particles in fluids, such as dirt, lint, hair and some other microscopic organisms. Diatoms are often used to filter water, particularly water in hot tubs and swimming pools. However, a vast variety of fluids can be filtered with diatoms, including different syrups, alcoholic beverages, medicines, solvents and other chemicals.
Only male gametes of centric diatoms are capable of movement by means of flagella. Diatom communities are a popular tool for monitoring environmental conditions, past and present, and are commonly used in studies of water quality. A unique feature of diatom cells is that they are enclosed within a cell wall made of silica (hydrated silicon dioxide) called a frustule.
Diatoms are algae with distinctive, transparent cell walls made of silicon dioxide hydrated with a small amount of water (Si02 + H20). Silica is the main component of glass and hydrated silica is very like the mineral opal, making these algae, often called algae in glass houses more like algae in opal houses. Ecology. Diatoms are abundant in nearly every habitat where water is found – oceans, lakes, streams, mosses, soils, even the bark of trees. These algae form part of the base of aquatic food webs in marine and freshwater habitats.
Diatoms are producers within the food chain. A unique feature of diatom cells is that they are enclosed within a cell wall made of silica (hydrated silicon dioxide) called a frustule. These frustules show a wide diversity in form, but are usually almost bilaterally symmetrical, hence the group name
Diatoms are a type of protist, a microscopic organism. What makes diatoms remarkable is they have shells made from organic compounds and silica. These shells are left behind when a diatom dies. Diatomaceous earth is a mineral that is formed from fossilized diatom shells, and this is mined for a number of industrial purposes. The product of diatoms, diatomaceous earth, is typically used, though living diatoms are also useful. Diatoms are often used to filter water, particularly water in hot tubs and swimming pools. However, a vast variety of fluids can be filtered with diatoms, including different syrups, alcoholic beverages, medicines, solvents and other chemicals.