The difference between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cell is eukaryotic cell is inside of people, plants, and animals. The prokaryotic is a bacteria cell Study Island: Prokaryot … ic cells do not have a true nucleus or membrane-bound organelles. 30 people found this useful. Protists, fungi, plants and animals are made to be Eukaryotic. Eukaryotic Cells have a true nu … cleus bound by a membrane, while prokaryotic cells contain a nucleoid region. The nucleoid region in a prokaryotic cell generally has no boundaries so it is just generally where the DNA is located in the cell.
Pro means before, and eu means true, or good.. So Prokaryotic means before a nucleus, and eukaryotic means possessing a true nucleus.. This is a big hint about one of the differences between these two cell types. Prokaryotic cells have no nuclei, while eukaryotic cells do have true nuclei. 1 Both cell types have many, many ribosomes, but the ribosomes of the eukaryotic cells are larger and more complex than those of the prokaryotic cell. 2  Ribosomes are made out of a special class of RNA molecules (ribosomal RNA, or rRNA) and a specific collection of different proteins.
Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, including a nucleus. Eukaryotes can be single-celled or multicelled, such as you, me, plants, fungi, and insects. Bacteria are an example of prokaryotes. Prokaryotic cells do not contain a nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelle. Prokaryotes include two groups: bacteria and another group called archaea. Having organelles is a big deal for a cell. In this lesson, we discuss the similarities and differences between the eukaryotic cells of your body and prokaryotic cells such as bacteria. Eukaryotes organize different functions within specialized membrane-bound compartments called organelles. These structures do not exist in
Nucleus. The main difference is that eukaryotic cells have a nucleus and prokaryotic cells do not. That is really the meaning of the words prokaryotic (before nucleus) and … eukaryotic (true nucleus). 2. Organelles. Organelles. Eukaryotic cells have membrane-bound organelles and prokaryotic cells do not. I say membrane-bound organelles (mitochondrion, lysosomes) because both have ribosomes, which in come texts are considered organelles, but ribosomes are not membrane-bound (surrounded by a membrane).
Differences Between Eukaryotic and Prokaryotic Cells. The difference between the structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes is so great that it is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. 1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells.
Some things which seem to be differences aren't. For example, the prokaryotic cell has a cell wall, and this animal cell does not. However, many kinds of eukaryotic cells do have cell walls. Despite all of these similarities, the differences are also clear. 1 Both cell types have many, many ribosomes, but the ribosomes of the eukaryotic cells are larger and more complex than those of the prokaryotic cell. 2  Ribosomes are made out of a special class of RNA molecules (ribosomal RNA, or rRNA) and a specific collection of different proteins.
Thank you... All cells are broadly classified into prokaryotic cells and eukaryotic cells, according to whether their genetic materials are enclosed by a nuclear envelope or not. Prokaryotic cells (pro-primitive, karyon-nucleus): From the morphological point of view, prokaryotic cells are the most primitive cells. They do not contain a definite nucleus. The chromatin bodies remain scattered inside the cytoplasm. Such a type of nucleus without a nuclear membrane is called a nucleoid. Eukaryotic cells: These are believed to have been evolved from the prokaryotes. They contain a definite nucleus. The chromatin bodies are enclosed by a nuclear membrane. Eukaryotic cells are larger than
Best Answer: - prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus and eukaryotic cells do. - prokaryotic cells lack some organelles and eukaryotic cells do not. - prokaryotic cells are not found in humans and eukaryotic cells are. - prokaryotic cells are always unicellular and eukaryotic cells are often multicellular. 
The distinction between prokaryotes and eukaryotes is considered to be the most important distinction among groups of organisms. Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA. 1 The cell walls of prokaryotes are generally formed of a different molecule (peptidoglycan) to those of eukaryotes (many eukaryotes do not have a cell wall at all). 2  Prokaryotes are usually much smaller than eukaryotic cells.
1 Eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus, bound by a double membrane. 2  Prokaryotic cells have no nucleus. 3  The purpose of the nucleus is to sequester the DNA-related functions of the big eukaryotic cell into a smaller chamber, for the purpose of increased efficiency. Protists, fungi, plants and animals are made to be Eukaryotic. Eukaryotic Cells have a true nu … cleus bound by a membrane, while prokaryotic cells contain a nucleoid region. The nucleoid region in a prokaryotic cell generally has no boundaries so it is just generally where the DNA is located in the cell.