-How to Calculate How Many Calories You Need-. It’s generally agreed upon that one pound is equal to 3,500 calories. Following this measurement, in order to lose one pound per week you would have to cut 500 calories from your daily intake every day for seven days (500 x 7 = 3,500). If you want to skip a few steps and simply find out about how many calories you would need to consume to maintain your weight or lose one to two pounds per week, you can enter your information into an online caloric calculator like the one on calculator.net.
This calculator will determine how many calories you should eat on a daily basis if you are trying to lose weight. Learn how many calories to lose weight safely, and how to lose weight fast. The weight losss calculator will only show you safe levels of calorie reduction. When selecting your activity level use: 1  Sedentary (little or no exercise). 2  Lightly active (light exercise/sports 1-3 days/week).
To maintain weight, the chart below shows you your daily calorie limit. It's based on your age, activity level, and the BMI (body-mass index) of 21.5 for women and 22.5 for men. To lose weight -- about 1 pound a week -- reduce total calories in the chart by 500 a day. To gain weight, add 500 calories per day for each pound you want to gain per week. For successful weight loss that you can maintain over time, experts recommend choosing foods that are lower in calories but rich in protein, vitamins, minerals, fiber, and other nutrients.
Because 3,500 calories equals about 1 pound (0.45 kilogram) of fat, you need to burn 3,500 calories more than you take in to lose 1 pound. So if you cut 500 calories from your diet each day, you'd lose about 1 pound a week (500 calories x 7 days = 3,500 calories). 
For example: Assuming you are female, 5' 5, 170lbs at the start of August and would like to be 150lbs by Christmas, you would specify that you want to lose 20lbs in 5 months. The calculator will then give you your calories required on a week-to-week basis to reach your goal weight. The less you weigh, the fewer calories you will need to take in for weight loss to continue. This is reflected in the calculator with the corresponding calories intake on a weekly basis. NB: Any (-ve) negative values are shown in red, ie trying to lose 50 pounds in 1 week is not possible.
Your AMR is the estimated number of calories you need to consume to maintain your current weight. So to determine your daily caloric intake for weight loss, subtract 500 to 1,000 (depending on how many pounds– one or two –you want to lose per week) from that number. If you want to skip a few steps and simply find out about how many calories you would need to consume to maintain your weight or lose one to two pounds per week, you can enter your information into an online caloric calculator like the one on calculator.net.
To lose 5 pounds you will have to burn 17,500 calories. At a weight loss rate of ½ - 1 pound per week it should take you approximately 5 - 10 weeks to lose 5 pounds. Since losing those last 5 pounds always seems to be difficult, try changing up your workout routine (cross train) and reduce your sugar intake. 5. How to Lose 20 Pounds. You'll need to burn an extra 70,000 calories to lose 20 pounds; depending on your starting weight it may take you 20 weeks or more to lose the weight. Set short-term goals and keep food and weight diaries to help you track your progress.
A safe rate of weight loss is ½ -1 pound per week. You'll need to burn an extra 250 calories per day to lose ½ pound per week and 500 calories per day to lose 1 pound per week. A 140-pound person can burn approximately 330 calories by walking for 60 minutes at a pace of 4 miles per hour. 5. How to Lose 20 Pounds. You'll need to burn an extra 70,000 calories to lose 20 pounds; depending on your starting weight it may take you 20 weeks or more to lose the weight. Set short-term goals and keep food and weight diaries to help you track your progress.
The calorie calculator allows you to calculate how many calories you should eat a day in order to lose a certain amount of weight by a certain date. The less you weigh, the fewer calories you will need to take in for weight loss to continue. This is reflected in the calculator with the corresponding calories intake on a weekly basis. NB: Any (-ve) negative values are shown in red, ie trying to lose 50 pounds in 1 week is not possible.