Introduction to parts of the respiratory system and their function. Respiratory system consists of the organs that help to breathe. Respiration also known as breathing is the process which delivers oxygen from the external atmosphere to the body and removes the carbon dioxide from body and expels out.
Function of the Respiratory System. The function of the human respiratory system is to transport air into the lungs and to facilitate the diffusion of Oxygen into the blood stream. Its also receives waste Carbon Dioxide from the blood and exhales it. Parts of the Upper Respiratory Tract. 1  Mouth, nose & nasal cavity: The function of this part of the system is to warm, filter and moisten the incoming air. 2  Pharynx: Here the throat divides into the trachea (wind pipe) and oesophagus (food pipe). 3  Larynx: This is also known as the voice box as it is where sound is generated.
The human respiratory system is a series of organs responsible for taking in oxygen and expelling carbon dioxide. The primary organs of the respiratory system are lungs, which carry out this exchange of gases as we breathe. Red blood cells collect the oxygen from the lungs and carry it to the parts of the body where it is needed, according to the American Lung Association. Parts of the respiratory system. As we breathe, oxygen enters the nose or mouth and passes the sinuses, which are hollow spaces in the skull. Sinuses help regulate the temperature and humidity of the air
In humans and other mammals, the anatomical features of the respiratory system include trachea, bronchi, bronchioles, lungs, and diaphragm. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood. 
Parts of the Respiratory System. THE HUMAN RESPIRATORY SYSTEM CONSISTS OF THE NOSE, NASAL CAVITY, PHARYNX, LARYNX, TRACHEA, SMALLER CONDUCTING PASSAGEWAYS (BRONCHI AND BRONCHIOLES), AND LUNGS. The diaphragm forms the base of the thorax. Contractions of the diaphragm and the intercostals muscle change the size of the thorax and, thus, cause air to move in and out of the lungs. The main job of the respiratory system is to get oxygen into the body and get waste gases out of the body.
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs... Click to read more below. The cells of the human body require a constant stream of oxygen to stay alive.
THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEM. Parts of the Respiratory System The Nose or Nasal Cavity The Pharynx The Trachea The Lungs. Gas Exchange The Mechanism of Breathing Breathing Disorders Animation Links. The human respiratory system consists of the lungs and tubes associated with the lungs. It is located in the thorax or chest. The diaphragm forms the base of the thorax. Contractions of the diaphragm and the intercostals muscle change the size of the thorax and, thus, cause air to move in and out of the lungs. The main job of the respiratory system is to get oxygen into the body and get waste gases out of the body.
Organs of human respiratory system: The main organs of human respiratory system are lungs and respiratory passages. Muscles of respiration also form a component of respiratory system but there importance is rather little as compared to lungs and respiratory passages. 