On-the-job training is one of the most important aspects of medical assistant training Compton students need. Some employers may require new workers to pass an exam or achieve certification and licensing. Medical assistants must learn to perform certain tasks like taking x-rays and administering injections.
1 Find a doctor who will provide training. 2  Although most employers now prefer medical assistants with a formal education, there are some who will provide on-site training. 3  Arrange to meet with several doctors and express your passion for medical assisting and your desire to become a medical assistant.
Many medical assistants complete one to two-year programs, culminating in a certificate or associate's degree. Formal training is generally preferred but not always required, and all medical assistants must have a high school diploma or equivalent.
The first step to becoming a medical assistant is to earn a high school diploma or pass the General Educational Development (GED) examination. Next, you may either pursue on-the-job training or complete an accredited, postsecondary program in medical assisting.
If you choose this path, here is what you need to do: 1  Have a high school diploma or GED. 2  The minimum educational requirement for medical assistants is a high school diploma or equivalency degree. 3  If you do not already have this level of education, the first step is to take a GED prep class and to pass the examination.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a pediatric medical assistant. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about training, job duties and certification to find out if this is the career for you.
According to a June 2012 publication by Georgetown University’s Center on Education and the Workforce, the need for healthcare support professionals, such as medical assistants, is expected to increase 26 percent between 2010 and 2020, one of the most dramatic growth projections of any sector.
The minimum education for a medical assistant is a high school diploma. However, some states require training or examinations for those who do clinical work, and some employers prefer assistants with training or certification.
Postsecondary Training. As a student in a medical assisting program, you'll learn practical clinical and administrative skills. While some programs tend to focus primarily on medical assisting topics, others may also include general education topics, such as English and psychology.