• A closed refrigerator should keep your food cool for 4 to 6 hours. • A closed, full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 48 hours, while a half full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 24 hours. • If food is warm for longer than 4 hours, throw the food out. HOW LONG WILL MY FOOD STAY COLD? • A closed refrigerator should keep your food cool for 4 – 6 hours. • Kept closed, a
They said that food will last about 4 to 6 hours depending on how cold you kept the fridge/freezer and how much was in it. I don't suggest eating anything in the fridge since it has been 24 without power even though the fridge hasn't been opened unless it is something like water or anything that will not spoil. 
But, the refrigerator will only keep food safely cold for about four hours if unopened during a power outage, according to the USDA. A full freezer will hold the temperature for about 48 hours if full (24 hours of half full), the USDA says. More from Medfield Patch. Generally, if the temperature in the thermometer in the freezer reads 40 degrees Fahrenheit or below, the food is safe and can be refrozen, according to the USDA. The USDA suggests obtaining dry or block ice to help keep refrigerated or frozen food cold if the power will be out for an extended period of time.
According to FoodSafety.gov, the most important thing is to keep refrigerator and freezer doors closed. If they stay sealed, your fridge can keep food cold for about four hours, and a full freezer for about 48 hours (24 hours if it's half full). 
Best Answer: it depends on how much product is inside it. The more mass inside the fridge that is at a refrigerator temperature will make the inside of the ref stay cold longer. an empty refrigerator will warm up sooner. If you knew ahead of time I would fill it up with bottled water so when it was without power it would have a lot of cold mass inside
The refrigerator: how long will foods remain safe without power? · All foods: at least 4 hours, if the fridge is left unopened. · Discard after 4 hours without power: Meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cooked leftovers, soft cheeses, deli cold cuts/salads and other perishable foods. · Approximately 48 hours, if the freezer is full. · Approximately 24 hours, if the freezer is half-full. Keep the freezer door closed as much as possible to maintain its cold temperature.
wtopstaff | November 14, 2014 9:00 am. Download audio. WASHINGTON – Power outages that last days mean you will probably need to throw out a lot of food in your refrigerator and freezer. Foods will stay safely cold 4 to 6 hours in your refrigerator. Here’s the rule of thumb: If the temperature reaches above 40 degrees, throw out what’s in your refrigerator and freezer. Your freezer will stay cold for two days if it’s full and one day if it’s half full
If you leave it closed and not let the cold air out. It should keep the food cold until the power comes back on. If the power is off for longer than 4 hours, you may need to check the temperature inside to see if it is in the danger zone. You should keep foods out of the danger zone to prevent bacteria from forming on foods. The fridge doesn't immediately warm up once the power is turned off. As long as the door stays closed, it will remain cool enough to preserve the food for a good 24 hours. Aft … er 24 to 30 hours, though, you'll have to find someplace else to store the food very quickly, or you'll have to toss it all.
Perishable food in a refrigerator lasts about four hours without power, as long as the door is kept closed. Opening the door lets some of the cold escape and increases the temperature in the fridge, so keep it closed as long as possible. A refrigerator thermometer helps you keep an eye on the temperature. Freezer. Items stored in a freezer compartment will last longer than in the fridge because the temperature is cooler and the items have been frozen. A freezer that's full may keep food cool enough to be safe for 24 hours. Freezer food that thaws to above 40 degrees Fahrenheit for more than two hours should be discarded.