Composition Info: Eine kleine Nachtmusik, A Little Night Music-a Serenade, was written in Vienna in 1787, shortly after the death of the composer's father, - was intended for evening entertainment. The original is written for string instruments only-violins, viola, cello and double bass. Number of Pages.
+85 other releases. read more. Eine kleine Nachtmusik could refer to any of the four movements of Mozart's 'Serenade No. 13 for strings in G major', but commonly refers to the first movement:Serenade No. 13 for Strings in G major, K. 525 Eine kleine Nachtmusik: I. Allegro which is the most famous from the set.
Program Notes: This work by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, was originally titled “Serenade No. 13 for Strings in G Major”, but is now more commonly known as “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik” or as translated from German, “a little night music.” Completed in 1787, the piece was written for two violins, viola, cello, and optional bass. Related History In 1787, the year of “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik” completion, the Austro-Turkish War began, and would continue until 1792 (after Mozart’s death). The war itself was a conflict between the Ottoman and Austrian empires over land.
Eine kleine Nachtmusik (Serenade No. 13 for strings in G major), K. 525, is a 1787 composition for a chamber ensemble by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. The German title means a little serenade , though it is often rendered more literally but less accurately as a little night music.. The work is written for an ensemble of two violins, viola, and cello with optional double bass, but is often performed by string orchestras. The serenade was completed in Vienna on 10 August 1787, around the time Mozart was working on the second act of his opera Don Giovanni. It is not known why it was composed.
Historical Information: The Work Not much is know about why “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik” was written. Originally, the serenade was titled, “Serenade No. 13 for strings in G Major”, but is known as “Eine Kleine Nachmusik” or “a little night music”. Related History In 1787, the year of “Eine Kleine Nachtmusik” completion, the Austro-Turkish War began, and would continue until 1792 (after Mozart’s death). The war itself was a conflict between the Ottoman and Austrian empires over land.
Despite possessing a brain that could remember music with 100 per cent precision, Mozart kept a detailed log of everything he’d written, just in case. The title 'Eine Kleine NachtMusik' is what he jotted next to the entry for this particular serenade written for a string quartet with an added double-bass. It’s another piece from his great purple patch. He was just thirty-one years old. Oddly enough, Mozart never published 'Eine Kleine Nachtmusik' in his lifetime. It was left up to his widow, Constanze, to sell it in a job lot of his music to a publisher in 1799, presumably to raise much needed cash.
Translated into English, Eine Kleine Nachtmusik means 'A Little Night Music' and is a serenade, or a light, breezy, entertaining piece of music. Its four movements are all written in different popular forms of the time period and mirror the tempo markings that one would find in a typical four-movement symphony. To promote musical clarity, these composers focused on melody and form in their compositions. Eine Kleine Nachtmusik was originally written as a string quartet and is an excellent example of a piece of music written during the Classical era.