If you love asparagus and want to grow some yourself, waste no time in getting started. Even with the best of care, an asparagus bed won't hit its stride for several years. But once that happens, the bed will produce an abundant crop of spears spring after spring for at least the next 20 to 30 years. You can plant asparagus in the ground, but it really thrives when planted in a raised bed. This design fits a 2x8 bed, such as our Cedar Raised Beds. this design holds about 14-16 asparagus plants — or crowns — planted in a staggered fashion about a foot apart.
Asparagus stays healthy with breathing room. Space the asparagus crowns so you get as many plants as possible in a small area, but still allow for good air circulation to protect against disease. I plant my crowns 15 in. to 18 in. apart in rows 5 ft. apart. Figure on 10 plants for each person in the family who loves asparagus. 
Planting Asparagus Crowns. Asparagus should be planted in the spring, after the soil temperature reaches 50°. Asparagus plants are normally sold as 1 or 2 year old crowns. Their fleshy roots should not be allowed to dry out. Once the soil has been prepared and raked smooth, you are ready to plant your Asparagus. Harvesting Asparagus. Do not harvest anything from crown grown Asparagus plants in their first year, or the second year for seed grown plants. The following year you can harvest very lightly. if the spears are nice and thick. The next year you should limit the harvest period to 4 or 5 weeks.
Intercropping Plants. There are certain plants that help asparagus in the garden. You can plant parsley and basil underneath asparagus to help with plant vigor, and plant tomatoes alongside asparagus to help deter asparagus beetles. These plants also help one another. Both basil and parsley help tomatoes grow better
Planting. 1  Asparagus is planted in early spring as soon as the soil can be worked. 2  The plant is grown from “crowns” (1-year-old plants). 3  Eliminate all weeds from the bed, digging it over and working in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost, manure or soil mix. 4  Dig trenches of about 6 inches wide and 6 to 12 inches deep. Asparagus is a perennial bulb and stem vegetable that greets us every spring. It may take 2 to 3 years to get started and produce, so patience is needed! But then the plant can be productive up to 20 years, so we think it's worth the wait. Asparagus has male and female plants, with the female plants producing berries.
1 Asparagus is planted in early spring as soon as the soil can be worked. 2  The plant is grown from “crowns” (1-year-old plants). 3  Eliminate all weeds from the bed, digging it over and working in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost, manure or soil mix. 4  Dig trenches of about 6 inches wide and 6 to 12 inches deep. Asparagus is a perennial bulb and stem vegetable that greets us every spring. It may take 2 to 3 years to get started and produce, so patience is needed! But then the plant can be productive up to 20 years, so we think it's worth the wait. Asparagus has male and female plants, with the female plants producing berries.
To keep your asparagus bed productive, don't be greedy. The first year after planting, you can harvest a few spears from each plant. Pick for about two weeks and then stop so the fronds can unfold and begin feeding the root system. Harvest for three weeks the next year, and four to six weeks after that. You can plant asparagus in the ground, but it really thrives when planted in a raised bed. This design fits a 2x8 bed, such as our Cedar Raised Beds. this design holds about 14-16 asparagus plants — or crowns — planted in a staggered fashion about a foot apart.
When to Plant. Plant asparagus crowns (dormant roots of 1-year-old plants) in spring at about the same time you would plant potatoes, but don’t rush to plant them if your soil is still cold. A few varieties, such as open-pollinated ‘Purple Passion’ and hybrid ‘Sweet Purple,’ can be grown from seed. 