The German came to the USA in the 1800s because there was a war going on and also their crops were failing. They came to the USA in hope of a new life and a better dream and m … aybe even some work. The immigrants (Irish, German) came on a boat and if you earned enough money to send your family over to America. The Japanese immigrants immigrated to the US because they wanted a better life, get a better education, get new jobs, escape poverty, unemployment, bankruptcies, and they hear … d of the sugar industry.
1884 Japanese government allows Japanese workers to emigrate to Hawaii to work on sugar plantations. 1890 Approximately 2,038 Japanese in the United States. 1902 President Roosevelt declares victory in the Philippines. 1903 President Roosevelt signs treaty with Panama to begin construction of the Panama Canal. 1904-1905 Russo-Japanese War between Russia and Japan. Japan surprisingly defeats Russia and establishes itself as a military power. President Roosevelt mediates the treaty and wins a Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts in 1906. May 1905 Anti-Asiatic League formed in San Francisco. A few months after the earthquake of 1906, the San Francisco Board of Education decided to segregate Japanese students and force them to go to the Chinese school. This created a major crisis. President Roosevelt became involved and tried to get the Board of Education to change its decision.
Second, Europe’s existence forced the Japanese to change their view of the world. Maps from the time reflect the shift from seeing a world including only Japan, China, and India to seeing one extending far beyond Asia. Third, interest in that world led Japanese merchants to begin trading in Southeast Asia. 
1 The Japanese Government undertakes to withdraw its troops now stations in French Indo-China upon either the restoration of peace between Japan and China or the establishment of an equitable peace in the Pacific area. The proposals which were presented by the Japanese Ambassador on November 20 contain some features which, in the opinion of this Government, conflict with the fundamental principles which form a part of the general settlement under consideration and to which each Government has declared that it is committed.
The Chinese School was created. Chinese children were not permitted into any other public schools in San Francisco. San Francisco segregated its Chinese school children from 1859 until 1871, when the city refused to fund any more classes for them. Chinese parents hired private teachers or sent their children to church-sponsored schools.
economic reasons, an immigrant farm worker can make more money in a single day here in the United States than he can make in an entire month in Mexico, Central America (… except Costa Rica which has a very good government and economy), and some other third world countries. The Japanese immigrants immigrated to the US because they wanted a better life, get a better education, get new jobs, escape poverty, unemployment, bankruptcies, and they hear … d of the sugar industry.
The surrender of the Empire of Japan was announced by Imperial Japan on August 15 and formally signed on September 2, 1945, bringing the hostilities of World War II to a close. By the end of July 1945, the Imperial Japanese Navy was incapable of conducting major operations and an Allied invasion of Japan was imminent. 
A. the Japanese government felt that Chinese students should also be segregated B. such efforts demonstrated that many Americans considered the Japanese a second-class race C. it was Japanese official policy to encourage wide-spread immigration to the United States D. all of the above. 
Japanese history textbook controversies refers to controversial content in government-approved history textbooks used in the secondary education (junior high schools and high schools) of Japan. Despite the efforts of the nationalist textbook reformers, by the late 1990s the most common Japanese schoolbooks contained references to, for instance, the Nanking Massacre, Unit 731, and the comfort women of World War II, all historical issues which have faced challenges from ultranationalists in the past.
China did not dispute Japan’s claim to the islands during this period. Nor did China object when the United States took control of them during the occupation of Japan starting in 1945. The U.S. handed the islands back to Japan in 1972. But since the early ’70s, China has argued that Japan seized the islands in violation of international law. Japan took control of the islands, via the treaty, when it forced China, which lost the war, to cede Taiwan to Japan—and in China’s view, the islands are part of Taiwan. When Taiwan was returned to China after World War II, the islands should have gone back with it.