You can find out where the majority of the Contrera families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click to view veteran service records. You can find out if your ancestors came primarily from the North of the South. Military records can tell you an ancestor's birthplace, occupation, and even physical description.
Top Places of Origin for Contreras You can find out where the majority of Contreras families were living before they immigrated to the U.S. You can learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Ports of Departure for Contreras You can pinpoint where the majority of Contreras families booked passage to the US. You can find out where to start searching for Contreras records. Contreras Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the Contreras families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Contreras families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Contreras Name Meaning. Spanish: habitational name from Conteraras, a place in the province of Burgos. The place name is derived from Late Latin contraria ‘surrounding area’, ‘region’ (from the preposition contra ‘opposite’, ‘against’, ‘hard by’).
In 1831, Susana Contreras was a resident of Tucson, Arizona.Ignacio Contreras was living in Tubac at the home of Pedro Pintor and Leonarda Valencia.His neighbors included Pablo Contreras, his wife, Rosa Madrid, and their daughter, Paula.Also, Maria Contreras, who lived at the home of Jose Moreno. All are deceased except for my uncle, Ramon Almazan and my mother, Juanita Almazan Rodriguez.My mother married my father, Carlos Gomez de Faz (from Cedral, San Luis Potosi) in 1949; she later went on to remarry to Homero Marroqui
Contreras Genealogy & History. Contreras is a Spanish name first found in Castile, a crucial Christian kingdom of medieval Spain. Contreras genealogy traces its origins in the Western hemisphere to early settlers in Nicaragua, Peru, and America who set sail in the 1500s.
Origin of Contreras. The Family Facts archive, with its rich historical information, can tell you everything from the lifespan of your ancestors to the very meaning of your last name. Every time you find a fact, we'll tell you what it means. Contreras Origin and Immigration. Ports of Departure for Contreras You can pinpoint where the majority of Contreras families booked passage to the US. You can find out where to start searching for Contreras records. Contreras Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the Contreras families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era
Last name origin & meaning: Spanish: habitational name from Conteraras, a place in the province of Burgos. The place name is derived from Late Latin contraria ‘surrounding area’, ‘region’ (from the preposition contra ‘opposite’, ‘against’, ‘hard by’).
You can find out when most of the Contreras families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Contreras Name Meaning. Spanish: habitational name from Conteraras, a place in the province of Burgos. The place name is derived from Late Latin contraria ‘surrounding area’, ‘region’ (from the preposition contra ‘opposite’, ‘against’, ‘hard by’).