It is very well tolerated and fast. Most people do six treatments done twice a week for three weeks. Final results are not seen until six weeks after the last treatment, however, most people will begin noticing improvement in their cellulite after approximately three or four treatments. Sclerotherapy is an effective, non-surgical treatment for unsightly spider and varicose veins. Surgical vein stripping often requires hospitalization and weeks of recovery. In contrast, sclerotherapy patients are encouraged to return to their normal activities immediately after treatment.
Spider veins can be treated with sclerotherapy or with lasers. The complete removal of spider veins is not expected in the first treatment and multiple treatments are required for optimal results. Sclerotherapy. 1  Sclerotherapy is effective for medium-sized blood vessels (greater than three millimeters in diameter). Spider Vein Treatment. Also known as sclerotherapy and laser vein treatment. Spider veins (not to be confused with varicose veins) are dilated or stretched blood vessels that have a branching pattern and are commonly found on the thigh, lower leg and occasionally on the face.
How Sclerotherapy Is Done. In most cases of sclerotherapy, the salt solution is injected through a very fine needle directly into the vein. At this point, you may experience mild discomfort and cramping for one to two minutes, especially when larger veins are injected. The procedure itself takes approximately 15 to 30 minutes. Sclerotherapy is a medical procedure used to eliminate varicose veins and spider veins. Sclerotherapy involves an injection of a solution (generally a salt solution) directly into the vein. The solution irritates the lining of the blood vessel, causing it to swell and stick together, and the blood to clot
2 years ago by Vein Treatment and Aesthetic Center It usually requires a few sclerotherapy treatments (spaced 3 weeks apart) for the veins to completely disappear. In my experience, it typically takes an average of 3 treatments for each spider vein. 4 years ago by Laser Vein Center The short answer is most disappear in 6 to 8 weeks but some may take as long as 8 months. After sclerotherapy spider veins may take 4 to 6 weeks to resolve. However, sclerotherapy often requires multiple treatments and I usually tell patients that some veins will disappear within several days, some within several weeks and some will need several treatments.
It is quite variable from patient to patient and from vein to vein. Most of the times takes at least 3-4 weeks before some results can be appreciated, however could go as long as 3 months.before improvement can be noticeable. 5 years ago by Vanish Vein and Laser Center Sclerotherapy is a process. Some veins may resolve immediately but most take 3 to 6 weeks. Often times multiple treatments are required with an interval between treatments of 4 to 6 weeks. 5 years ago by Miller Vein Usually the veins that are going to fade will do so in a few weeks. Those that haven't faded will need to be retreated (delay by at least 4 weeks). The typical patient requires 3 - 6 treatment session to obtain good results.
Spider vein treatments are usually done at least three weeks apart and most people require three to four treatments. For more information about our spider vein treatments or about our cosmetic options, including acne treatment, contact our Florida practice. Sclerotherapy is an effective, non-surgical treatment for unsightly spider and varicose veins. Surgical vein stripping often requires hospitalization and weeks of recovery. In contrast, sclerotherapy patients are encouraged to return to their normal activities immediately after treatment.
After 5 or 6 weeks, the veins still present will not go away unless they are re-treated. For the average patient, several treatments are necessary. 4 years ago by Vanish Vein and Laser Center After sclerotherapy spider veins may take 4 to 6 weeks to resolve. However, sclerotherapy often requires multiple treatments and I usually tell patients that some veins will disappear within several days, some within several weeks and some will need several treatments.
The tiniest spider veins may disappear quickly. Larger veins require a few weeks to improve in appearance. No treatment can eliminate 100% of all spider veins. Improvement of 70-80% is realistic and will be cosmetically appealing. Normal healing can take several weeks, so your treatment sessions will be separated by at least 3-4 weeks to allow for healing to occur.
Risks. The risks of sclerotherapy include: 1  Skin color changes along the treated vein. 2  This is the most common side effect of sclerotherapy. 3  The discoloration may take 6 to 12 months to disappear. 4  In some people, it may be permanent. 5  Failure of treatment to prevent varicose veins from returning. 