the outermost of the three primary cell layers of an embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system; the organs of special sense, such as the eyes and ears; the epidermis and epidermal tissue, such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands; and the mucous membranes of the mouth and anus. See also embryo, endoderm, mesoderm. ectodermal, ectodermic, adj. n the outermost of the three primary cell layers of an embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system, the organs of special sense, the epidermis, and epidermal tissues such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands.
1. : the outer cellular membrane of a diploblastic animal (as a jellyfish). 2. a: the outermost of the three primary germ layers of an embryo that is the source of various tissues and structures (as the epidermis, the nervous system, and the eyes and ears) b: a tissue (as neural tissue) derived from this germ layer. — ec·to·der·mal \ˌek-tə-ˈdər-məl\ adjective. See ectoderm defined for kids. 
Endoderm. Endoderm is one of the three primary germ layers in the very early human embryo. The other two layers are the ectoderm (outside layer) and mesoderm (middle layer), with the endoderm being the innermost layer. 
The position of the ectoderm relative to the other germ layers of the embryo is governed by selective affinity, meaning that the inner surface of the ectoderm has a strong (positive) affinity for the mesoderm, and a weak (negative) affinity for the endoderm layer. Generally speaking, the ectoderm differentiates to form the nervous system (spine, peripheral nerves and brain), tooth enamel and the epidermis (the outer part of integument).
The outermost of the three primary germinal layers of an embryo (the other layers being mesoderm and endoderm) from which the eye is derived. It differentiates into outer surface ectoderm and inner neuroectoderm, which gives rise to neural crest cells. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system; the organs of special sense, such as the eyes and ears; the epidermis and epidermal tissue, such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands; and the mucous membranes of the mouth and anus. See also embryo, endoderm, mesoderm. ectodermal, ectodermic, adj.
ectoderm. the outermost of the three primitive germ layers of the embryo; from it are derived the epidermis and epidermal derivatives, such as the claws, hair and glands of the skin, the nervous system, external sense organs (eye, ear, etc.) and mucous membrane of the mouth and anus. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. n the outermost of the three primary cell layers of an embryo. The ectoderm gives rise to the nervous system, the organs of special sense, the epidermis, and epidermal tissues such as fingernails, hair, and skin glands.
Epithelial tissue derived from ectoderm is generally squamous epithelium; epithelial tissue derived from endoderm is essentially glandular epithelium. There are a variety of body tissues derived from the third or middle primary germ layer known as the mesoderm. These body tissues include: 1  Muscles. 2  Fibrous tissue. In fact, epithelial tissue can be derived from either the ectoderm or endoderm. The epithelial tissue derived from the endoderm includes the epithelial lining of the digestive tract, except at the open ends, and the epithelial lining of all hollow structures formed as outpockets in the digestive tract.
Germ Layers. by Kate MacCord Keywords: Germ layer theory, mesoderm, endoderm, ectoderm. A germ layer is a group of cells in an embryo that interact with each other as the embryo develops and contribute to the formation of all organs and tissues. All animals, except perhaps sponges, form two or three germ layers. 
Ectoderm is one of the three primary germ layers in the very early embryo. The other two layers are the mesoderm (middle layer) and endoderm (most proximal layer), with the ectoderm as the most exterior (or distal) layer. It emerges and originates from the outer layer of germ cells. Generally speaking, the ectoderm differentiates to form the nervous system (spine, peripheral nerves and brain), tooth enamel and the epidermis (the outer part of integument).