The term “sarking” is used in several different ways in construction. In general, it is a panel which is used as an underlayment, and may be used in the construction of walls, or in the construction of a roof. In walls, people may refer to “scrim and sarking” construction, a technique used in many older homes. People doing refurbishment and repair of such homes may opt to reproduce this building technique to preserve the character of the structure. On a roof, sarking is used as part of the underlayment or roof membrane. In walls, sarking is put up in the form of flat panels which historically were covered in a fabric material known as scrim. Wallpaper, plaster, or other finishes could be applied directly to the scrim and sarking.
Bituminous felt laid across rafters of a pitched roof. Pitched roofs using sarking felt underlay provide watertightness.In many countries, including Scotland, it is usual to 'sark' the roof with a covering of timber boards or sheet composite over the rafters. Using a sarking board also opens up the way for exposing the underside of this board and the roof timbers, since it becomes possible to support the timber frame roof insulation material on the top side of this. I hope this answered your question. If so please ACCEPT my answer.
1 the use of wood panels, or sarking boards, called sheathing, sheeting or decking in American English, under the roof covering materials such as the shingles of a roof to provide support. 2  It is a common term in Scotland, Australia, and New Zealand. 1 The word sarking is further used as part of the term scrim and sarking, a method of interior construction widely used in Australia and New Zealand in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Sarking is an English word with multiple meanings in roof construction: 1  the use of wood panels, or sarking boards, called sheathing, sheeting or decking in American English, under the roof covering materials such as the shingles of a roof to provide support. 2  It is a common term in Scotland, Australia, and New Zealand. 1 The word sarking is further used as part of the term scrim and sarking, a method of interior construction widely used in Australia and New Zealand in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
Sarking is a layer of flexible insulation typically installed under roof tiles when a home is being constructed. It consists of aluminum foil laminated onto paper or plastic backing with a flame retardant adhesive and fibreglass reinforcing mesh, and is manufactured in sheet form. Sarking performs a dual function, helping to keep your home insulated from the heat of summer whilst retaining warmth in the winter.
Sarking. In many countries, including Scotland, it is usual to 'sark' the roof with a covering of timber boards or sheet composite over the rafters. However, in England and Wales it has become common practice to leave out the timber and use only a 'sarking felt' over the rafters and below the tile battens.
Several materials can be used for sarking on a roof. Historically, it was done with boards known as sarking boards which were laid under the tiles, shingles, or other roofing materials used. Modern underlayments may be made from felt or other materials, and it is often laid over a secondary barrier material. In walls, sarking is put up in the form of flat panels which historically were covered in a fabric material known as scrim. Wallpaper, plaster, or other finishes could be applied directly to the scrim and sarking.