1 Health insurance may cover some or all of the cost of the stress test. 2  Typically, insurance carriers cover 80%-100% of the costs. 3  Contact an insurance provider for coverage specifics. 4  Some physicians and hospitals offer discounts of up to 35% to patients who do not have health insurance. 1 Typically a drug is given to the patient to make the heart believe it is exercising. 2  Some patients receive a nuclear stress test which involves injecting the patient with radioactive material to help create a better image of how the heart functions. 3  A camera is used to view the patient's heart before and after exercise.
EKGs and stress tests are tests to find out if you are at risk for heart disease and heart attack. An EKG, or electrocardiogram, measures your heart’s activity. In an exercise stress test, you have an EKG while you walk or jog on a treadmill. For example, in 2010, Consumer Reports did a survey of nearly 1,200 people between the ages of 40 and 60. These people had no history or symptoms of heart disease. Yet almost half had had an EKG in the last five years. And almost one out of ten had an exercise stress test.
1 Patients who have a drug-induced stress test might also be responsible for the cost of the medications, typically Dobutamine or Adenosine. 2  Typically, patients are charges $50-$60 for radioactive materials. 1 Typically a drug is given to the patient to make the heart believe it is exercising. 2  Some patients receive a nuclear stress test which involves injecting the patient with radioactive material to help create a better image of how the heart functions. 3  A camera is used to view the patient's heart before and after exercise.
This can help some people, but for many, lifestyle changes and medicine are just as good. Angioplasty causes a heart attack in one to two out of every 100 patients. The tests can be a waste of money. An EKG costs about $50, and an exercise stress test costs about $200 to $300, according to HealthcareBlueBook.com. For example, in 2010, Consumer Reports did a survey of nearly 1,200 people between the ages of 40 and 60. These people had no history or symptoms of heart disease. Yet almost half had had an EKG in the last five years. And almost one out of ten had an exercise stress test.
1 Uninsured patients will likely pay $1,000-$5,000 for stress test and the analysis. 2  A cardiovascular stress test costs about $3,800 on average nationally, according to NewChoiceHealth.com, but can get as high as $10,900. 1 Typically a drug is given to the patient to make the heart believe it is exercising. 2  Some patients receive a nuclear stress test which involves injecting the patient with radioactive material to help create a better image of how the heart functions. 3  A camera is used to view the patient's heart before and after exercise.
Font Size. A. A. A. A stress test can be used to test for heart disease. Stress tests are tests performed by a doctor and/or trained technician to determine the amount of stress that your heart can manage before developing either an abnormal rhythm or evidence of ischemia (not enough blood flow to the heart muscle). 
An imaging stress test costs between $500 and $2,000, compared with $200 to $300 for an ECG treadmill test. Since imaging tests can provide more information, they may be worth it. 
1 What degree of accuracy is needed? 2  Treadmill tests are between 60 and 80 percent accurate, while stress echo and nuclear tests are 80 to 90 percent accurate. 3  What are the costs? 4  Treadmill tests cost about $300; echo stress tests run about $1,500 and nuclear tests can go as high as $3,500. 1 Treadmill tests are between 60 and 80 percent accurate, while stress echo and nuclear tests are 80 to 90 percent accurate. 2  What are the costs? 3
1 A cardiovascular stress test costs about $3,800 on average nationally, according to NewChoiceHealth.com, but can get as high as $10,900. 2  Prices range based on geographical location, with urban, metropolitan areas charging higher prices than rural areas. 1 Typically a drug is given to the patient to make the heart believe it is exercising. 2  Some patients receive a nuclear stress test which involves injecting the patient with radioactive material to help create a better image of how the heart functions. 3  A camera is used to view the patient's heart before and after exercise.
The cardiac stress test is done with heart stimulation, either by exercise on a treadmill, pedalling a stationary exercise bicycle ergometer, or with intravenous pharmacological stimulation, with the patient connected to an electrocardiogram (ECG). A stress test may also use an echocardiogram (ultrasonic imaging of the heart), or a nuclear stress test (in which a radioisotope dye is injected into the bloodstream).