DEFINITION of 'Property Rights'. Laws created by governments in regards to how individuals can control, benefit from and transfer property. Economic theory contends that government enforcement of strong property rights is a determinant regarding the level of economic success seen in the area.
The Economists’ Oversight. In his book on the history of property rights, Tom Bethell examines the neglect of property rights in the economic literature. He concludes that the existence of private property was a presumption that underlay the work of the classical economists. 
Lack of property rights. Markets are efficient at producing private goods, largely because producers and consumers have the right of ownership of the resources exchanged in an economic transaction involving a private good. However, markets are less efficient when property rights do not exist. 
Executive Summary. Prosperity and property rights are inextricably linked. The importance of having well-defined and strongly protected property rights is now widely recognized among economists and policymakers. A private property system gives individuals the exclusive right to use their resources as they see fit. 
Buy Now from Mises Store. Austrian economics puts private property at the center of its analysis of value, price, and exchange. Respect for private property is also implied by the fundamental moral principle, Do not steal.. 
Property rights. In an economy, there needs to be clear laws regarding ownership of goods and services. Otherwise, it would be difficult to make any effective business; and issues such as theft and grabbing would be uncontrolled. There are four main components of property rights, and nearly all government policies and legislations seek to define property ownership by addressing these main components. Right to use the property. The essence of owning property is being able to use it in the way you want.
Private property is a legal designation of the ownership of property by non-governmental legal entities. Private property is distinguishable from public property, which is owned by a state entity; and collective property, which is owned by a group of non-governmental entities. Private property is further distinguished from personal property, which refers to property for personal use and consumption. 
The property rights component is an assessment of the ability of individuals to accumulate private property, secured by clear laws that are fully enforced by the state. It measures the degree to which a country’s laws protect private property rights and the degree to which its government enforces those laws. 1 70 —Private property is guaranteed by the government. 2  The court system is subject to delays and is lax in enforcing contracts. 3  Corruption is possible but rare, and expropriation is unlikely. 4  60 —Enforcement of property rights is lax and subject to delays.