Now, at age 75, Hoffman has added director to his resume with the film Quartet. The movie, which stars Maggie Smith, Tom Courtenay, Pauline Collins and Billy Connolly, tells the story of a quartet of aging opera singers who put on a concert in honor of Verdi's birthday at the retirement home where they live.
Based on Ronald Harwood's stage play of the same name, QUARTET is a wickedly comic film about redefining old age and growing old with hope; demonstrating how art illuminates life and the human spirit remains undimmed even as the brightest stars start to fade. Lifelong friends Wilf and Reggie, together with former colleague Cissy, are residents of Beecham House, a home for retired opera singers.
It was also the location of Quartet, a 2012 comedy drama film directed by Dustin Hoffman, based on the play by Ronald Harwood. It was filmed in its entirety at Hedsor House, in Autumn 2011. The film stars Maggie Smith, Tom Courtenay, Pauline Collins and Billy Connolly. Hedsor House features as Beecham House, the retirement home for musicians at which the film is set. Taking a break from part of the movie’s schedule at Pinewood Studios, Johnny Depp, Olivia Munn and Paul Bettany filmed scenes at Hedsor House in autumn 2013 where the Boudoir and Bridal Suite were transformed into filming sets.
Quartet is a 2012 British comedy-drama film based on the play Quartet by Ronald Harwood, which ran in London's West End from September 1999 until January 2000. It was filmed late in 2011 at Hedsor House, Buckinghamshire. The film had its first general release in Australia and New Zealand on 26 December 2012, before being released in the United Kingdom on 1 January 2013 and in Ireland three days later.
It’s a film about the pressure of performance, centred on four actors who appear to be feeling next-to-none. Maggie Smith, Billy Connolly, Tom Courtenay and Pauline Collins play inhabitants of Beecham House, a plush retirement castle for classical musicians. Quartet, directed by Dustin Hoffman and starring Maggie Smith, Billy Connolly, Tom Courtenay, Pauline Collins, is an enjoyable lighthearted drama. 3.
Sadly, Mark Shivas died four years before the film was completed. The story of Quartet is based at Beecham House, a retirement home for musicians. Hedsor House in Buckinghamshire was used as the location of Beecham House. The film had its first general release in Australia and New Zealand on 26 December 2012, before being released in the United Kingdom on 1 January 2013 and in Ireland three days later.
Maggie Smith, Billy Connolly, Dustin Hoffman's directorial debut, and a soundtrack including music by film composer Dario Marianelli alongside some of the best opera music ever composed-hold on to your hats and experience life at Beecham House in our track by track album guide... Previous image Next image. 
Hedsor House is a Georgian style mansion in the United Kingdom, located in Hedsor, Buckinghamshire, England. Perched overlooking the River Thames, a manor house at Hedsor can be dated back to 1166 when the estate was owned by the de Hedsor Family. Taking a break from part of the movie’s schedule at Pinewood Studios, Johnny Depp, Olivia Munn and Paul Bettany filmed scenes at Hedsor House in autumn 2013 where the Boudoir and Bridal Suite were transformed into filming sets.
Cecily, Reggie, and Wilfred are in a home for retired musicians. Every year, on October 10, there is a concert to celebrate Verdi's birthday and they take part. Jean, who used to be married to Reggie, arrives at the home and disrupts their equilibrium. There are two obvious reasons to see this film. One is that it's Dustin Hoffman's directing debut. The other is that any film with Billy Connolly, Tom Courtenay, Maggie Smith and Michael Gambon is very unlikely to be less than very good.
Hedsor House was also used as one of the locations for Mortdecai (film) , the action comedy film directed by David Koepp and written by Eric Aronson, which features an all-star cast that includes Johnny Depp, Gwyneth Paltrow, Ewan McGregor and Olivia Munn with Jeff Goldblum and Paul Bettany. Taking a break from part of the movie’s schedule at Pinewood Studios, Johnny Depp, Olivia Munn and Paul Bettany filmed scenes at Hedsor House in autumn 2013 where the Boudoir and Bridal Suite were transformed into filming sets.