Herne Bay /hɜrn/ is a seaside town in Kent, South East England, with a population of 38,563. On the south coast of the Thames Estuary it is 7 miles (11 km) north of Canterbury and 5 miles (8 km) east of Whitstable. Herne Bay railway station is on the Chatham Main Line, which runs between Ramsgate in East Kent and London Victoria. Other stations on this line include Broadstairs, Margate, Whitstable, Faversham, Gillingham, Rochester and Bromley South. Herne Bay is around 1 hour and 40 minutes from London
Whitstable and Eastbourne have headed a list of the UK's fastest growing seaside resort destinations, with massive investment and an expansion of high-end tourism cited as major factors in a reversal of fortunes for the UK's seaside destinations. The trend, helped by £100 million worth of public investment in seaside towns, resulted in 21 per cent more UK holidaymakers staying overnight and spending almost a quarter more money at the English coast this year, it said.
Ranked by a growth in tourism-related businesses, number of employees and a growth in visitor numbers to tourist attractions, Whitstable, in Kent, and Eastbourne, in East Sussex, with 13.9 per cent and 11 per cent respectively, headed the list. The trend, helped by £100 million worth of public investment in seaside towns, resulted in 21 per cent more UK holidaymakers staying overnight and spending almost a quarter more money at the English coast this year, it said.
Whitstable [1] is a town in Kent, England. Whitstable is located on the North Kent Coast. The town is famous for its Oysters, and has several upmarket fish restaurants. Tourist Information is not currently availiable in whitstable itself, as the centre along the high street has recently closed. Whitstable is served by regular trains from London Victoria, Margate, the Medway Towns and Faversham. Most trains from London Victoria divide at Faversham, with half of the train taking the North coast line, and half heading for the South coast; ensure that you are sitting in the correct part of the train.
© pam fray and licensed for reuse under this Creative Commons Licence. Whitstable's West Beach is a long stretch of shingle divided up by wooden groynes. It runs from just south of the town's harbour to neighbouring Seasalter, a distance of around a mile. Despite the lack of sand Whitstable is still a fantastic spot.
After seeing the amazing Shell Grotto on television I had to take a trip to Margate to see it for myself. And nearby is the more upmarket Whitstable, also on the south east coast. Also added are Leeds & Dover Castles as well as the southern coastal city of Portsmouth, plus a couple of weird micronations.. 
Herne Bay, along with Whitstable and Canterbury, is in the City of Canterbury local government district. The town contains the five electoral wards of Heron, Herne and Broomfield, Greenhill and Eddington, West Bay and Reculver. These wards have thirteen of the fifty seats on the Canterbury City council. Herne Bay railway station is on the Chatham Main Line, which runs between Ramsgate in East Kent and London Victoria. Other stations on this line include Broadstairs, Margate, Whitstable, Faversham, Gillingham, Rochester and Bromley South. Herne Bay is around 1 hour and 40 minutes from London
There are a few other places to grab a bite to eat along the beach too, including the Whitstable Oyster Company restaurant if you fancy something a little upmarket. Whitstable beach is popular for windsurfing and sailing, with the Whitstable Yacht Club located at the northern end. To top this all off Whitstable beach faces west meaning it is a great place to catch a sunset. Whitstable's West Beach is a long stretch of shingle divided up by wooden groynes. It runs from just south of the town's harbour to neighbouring Seasalter, a distance of around a mile. Despite the lack of sand Whitstable is still a fantastic spot.