The name Vilma is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Vilma is: Determined protector. Swedish Meaning: The name Vilma is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Vilma is: Determined protector. American Meaning: The name Vilma is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Vilma is: Determined protector. Teutonic Meaning: The name Vilma is a Teutonic baby name.
Vilma is an English and Russian name of Germanic origin. Vilma is a short form of the name Wilhelmina (Dutch and German). Also the related form, Wilma (English, German, and Italian). Vilma is a short name of Vilhemina. The name was introduced from Germany to English speakers in the 19th century and is today mostly used in Scotland, Canada, and the USA. Wilhelmina is the feminine version of the English and French William
Vilma /vil-ma/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Native American Indian and Old German origin, and the meaning of Vilma is determined protector. Short form of Vilhelmina. Kreatif forms: Vilna, Vilva. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Vilma for girls. Vilma entered the list in 1910-1919 and reached its peak rank of #782 in the U.S. during the years 1960-1969, but is not ranked at the moment. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014).
Your baby's name must be in harmony with: your baby's birthdate (inner potential) and your family's surname (last name) It is essential that you understand the qualities of your family name. 
Vilma is a very popular first name for females (#908 out of 4276, Top 21%) but a rare surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Vilma for girls. Vilma entered the list in 1910-1919 and reached its peak rank of #782 in the U.S. during the years 1960-1969, but is not ranked at the moment. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014).
Meaning of Vilma. Russian name. In Russian, the name Vilma means-resolute protector.The name Vilma originated as an Russian name. The name Vilma is most often used as a girl name or female name. Russian Name Meaning-resolute protector. Origin-Russia. 
Vilma is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Vil-ma. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 7559 in baby name popularity for girls with 16 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own.
Wilma is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Wil-ma. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6924 in baby name popularity for girls with 18 occurrences. 
Nicknames for Vilma: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Vilma: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Vilma: | Edit. Vilma Banky-Hungarian-born American silent film actress. Known as The Hungarian Rhapsody, and has an educational fund for children-Banky-La Rocque Foundation. Personal experiences with the name Vilma: | Edit. Most people don't pronounce it correctly. My personal experience is that when I am introduced for the first time, I must repeat and spell the name several times before people understand the correct pronunciation and spelling and then they still mispronounce it.
The name Wilma is a name for a strong, attractive and courageous girl and woman. It is a word of substance and its relationship to the male name William or Wilhelm gives it a decidedly regal or heraldic sound, as well as a Western European sound. The related name Wilhelmina is also a substantial and royal-sounding name.