Holy Hill from the air. Holy Hill National Shrine of Mary, Help of Christians is a Roman Catholic shrine dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary. The centerpiece of the shrine is a minor basilica. It is located in the town of Erin, near Hubertus, Wisconsin, in the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee. Visitors can climb a 178-step observation tower to view the Milwaukee skyline 30 miles (48 km) away. At approximately 1,350 feet (410 m) above sea level, it is one of the highest points in southeastern Wisconsin.
The fitting name Erin was suggested by one of the first settlers in the township, John Whelan. The town is located in the far southwestern corner of Washington County, is 36 square miles in size, has approximate ly 3790 res idents and contains a mix of agricultural and residential property in a rural setting. Town News At-A-Glance. Erin School-See attachment below for the October 31, 2015, 5K or one mile fun run/walk at Erin Hills Golf Course, the site of the 2017 U.S. Open. The run/walk will allow you to embrace the natural beauty of this world-famous golf course, as you travel overt the hills of the scenic Kettle Moraine.
Welcome To Erin. The Town of Erin is nestled in the beautiful kettle moraine area of Washington County, located in southeastern Wisconsin. The varied glacial topography makes the town very unique with dramatic changes in elevation. We have the highest point in southeastern Wisconsin, on which the Basilica at Holy Hill, National Shrine of Mary is located. While we were not the first town 'settled' in Washington County, we are the oldest and the first one to incorporate by act of the Territorial Legislature on January 16, 1846. Town News At-A-Glance. Erin School-See attachment below for the October 31, 2015, 5K or one mile fun run/walk at Erin Hills Golf Course, the site of the 2017 U.S. Open. The run/walk will allow you to embrace the natural beauty of this world-famous golf course, as you travel overt the hills of the scenic Kettle Moraine.
Erin compared to Wisconsin state average: 1  Median household income above state average. 2  Unemployed percentage significantly below state average. 3  Black race population percentage significantly below state average. 4  Hispanic race population percentage significantly below state average. Hospitals and medical centers near Erin: 1  HARDFORD CARE CENTER (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; HARTFORD, WI). 2  HARTFORD HLTHCARE CTR (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; HARTFORD, WI). 3  BRIDGES HOME HEALTHCARE (Home Health Center
Erin Homes for Sale. Erin is the oldest incorporated town in Washington County and bestows a phenomenal scenery nestled on the highest hill of the Kettle Moraine area. Erin has a mix of agricultural and residential properties, but is predominately rural. Real Estate. The rural community’s housing market has a mixture of homes in subdivisions and larger estates priced from $200,000-$500,000. Homes in the Erin market include 4-bedroom Ranches, custom built stone and full-log homes and elegant Prairie Style homes. The average price of a home is currently $280,170. An advantage to living in this southeast Wisconsin town is the cost of living, which is 8.65% lower than the U.S. average. Amenities. The lakes around the Erin area include Druid, Loews, Murphy and Hickey Lake
Erin, WI Resorts & Hotels. To plan your next vacation to Erin, Wisconsin, select a resort or hotel from the list below. The accommodations are listed by rating and proximity to the center of Erin, Wisconsin. Additional nearby cities and golf courses are available in the section to the right
Colleges/universities with over 2000 students nearest to Erin: 1  Waukesha County Technical College (about 13 miles; Pewaukee, WI; Full-time enrollment: 4,415). 2  Carroll University (about 18 miles; Waukesha, WI; FT enrollment: 3,313). 3  Concordia University-Wisconsin (about 23 miles; Mequon, WI; FT enrollment: 5,253). Hospitals and medical centers near Erin: 1  HARDFORD CARE CENTER (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; HARTFORD, WI). 2  HARTFORD HLTHCARE CTR (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; HARTFORD, WI). 3  BRIDGES HOME HEALTHCARE (Home Health Center
Welcome to Holy Hill. Holy Hill is located in southeast Wisconsin, on the highest elevation in that part of the state. Situated on 435 acres of rural countryside, it provides the visitor with the opportunity for spiritual enrichment.
Erin-area historical earthquake activity is above Wisconsin state average. It is 88% smaller than the overall U.S. average. On 4/18/2008 at 09:36:59, a magnitude 5.4 (5.1 MB, 4.8 MS, 5.4 MW, 5.2 MW, Depth: 8.9 mi, Class: Moderate, Intensity: VI-VII) earthquake occurred 331.9 miles away from the city center. Hospitals and medical centers near Erin: 1  HARDFORD CARE CENTER (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; HARTFORD, WI). 2  HARTFORD HLTHCARE CTR (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; HARTFORD, WI). 3  BRIDGES HOME HEALTHCARE (Home Health Center