Moong dal: When you think of dal rice, the first thing that comes to your mind is moong dal which is commonly known as yellow dal. It is used for making the legendary dal tadka and dal fry. It is eaten on a regular basis in every indian household in combination with rice and vegetables. (Read: Baked moong dal karanji recipe). Chana dal: A variety of dal which is deliciously thick. Chana dal is rich in B-vitamins which help energise you. It is full of fibre which helps diabetics to control their blood sugar levels. It also has potassium and folic acid. The fibre in it helps lower cholesterol levels preventing heart problem
The mung bean (Vigna radiata), alternatively known as the moong bean, green gram, but not mungo or mingo, is a plant species in the legume family. Native to the Indian subcontinent, the mung bean is mainly cultivated today in India, China, and Southeast Asia. Although whole mung beans are also occasionally used in Indian cuisine, beans without skins are more commonly used; but in Kerala, whole mung beans are commonly boiled to make a dry preparation often served with rice gruel (kanji).
Monday, 04 December 2006Answered by: Ms. Madhavi ShahDiet consultant (RD)Health TotalMumbai Share Q. It is said that only moong chhilka dal is alkaline and hence good. But all other dals are acidic and therefore not good. Please confirm the same. A. Incase you are a vegetarian, if you drink at least 10-12 glasses of water, & most important having no medical complaints, then you need not worry too much about acidic & alkaline foods. For your information, dals are not very acidic
Moong / Green Beans. Moong also known as green bean, or moong dal, is the seed of Vigna radiata. Moong beans are small, cylindrical beans with a bright green skin. Split and hulled moong beans are small and yellow and called Moong dal. Moong is used in several food products; both as a whole seed and in split hulled and dehulled form. Whole seeds are often used in soup mixes or to produce bean sprouts for salads.
Weight loss: Moong dal is very low in fat and can be easily digested. It is an excellent source of fiber, protein and carbohydrates, as well as folic acid and molybdenum. These essential minerals help to neutralize free radicals responsible for cell damage and disease. Moong beans are small, cylindrical beans with a bright green skin. Split and hulled moong beans are small and yellow and called Moong dal. Moong is used in several food products; both as a whole seed and in split hulled and dehulled form. Whole seeds are often used in soup mixes or to produce bean sprouts for salads.
Relief from joint pain caused by uric acid. Hi, I have allergy to a certain food such as Moong Dal ,Tur Dal ,milk or milk products,chicken,egg,Maida products.,which cause ceratin part of body lswollen or causes red rashes all over the body which is very ... Fluids can be like coconut water, moong dal water, lemon juice with sugar and salt, butter milk, ORS (available in medical stores), etc. Curd with rice will also be good food. Please don't give her fruit juices (can aggravate diarrhea), tea or coffee. Can be given whole fruits. Thank you.
Share. Q. It is said that only moong chhilka dal is alkaline and hence good. But all other dals are acidic and therefore not good. Please confirm the same. A. Incase you are a vegetarian, if you drink at least 10-12 glasses of water, & most important having no medical complaints, then you need not worry too much about acidic & alkaline foods. For your information, dals are not very acidic