Psoriatic arthritis (also arthritis psoriatica, arthropathic psoriasis or psoriatic arthropathy) is a type of inflammatory arthritis that will develop in up to 30 percent of people who have the chronic skin condition psoriasis. 
Triggers of Psoriatic Arthritis Flares. Each person has their own unique experience with psoriatic arthritis flare-ups. Something may cause a flare-up in one person but not in another person. That’s why it’s important to track and log the triggers that set off your symptoms. Show the log to your doctor. Finding a link or pattern between certain activities and your psoriasis flare-ups can help control your outbreaks. You can feel fine one day yet experience a flare-up the next. Some people have short flare-ups while others have seemingly never-ending ones. The length of a psoriatic arthritis flare-up varies from person to person.
Read Transcript. We don't know exactly what cause flare-ups per say, but it's thought that maybe things like stress, or weather changes, or an acute illness of some other sort, all these things that can kind of trigger your immune systems can cause immune systems to have a flare of your arthritis. 
Flare-ups in Other Types of Arthritis. For those with psoriatic arthritis, cold winter weather is often the cause of a flare-up. Cold, windy weather tends to dry out the skin, and for those whose skin is already sensitive, the result is increased cracking, inflammation and pain. Arthritis refers to the inflammation that sometimes occurs in one or more joints in the body. This inflammation may cause pain, swelling and stiffness in the affected joints. The National Library of Medicine lists more than 100 different types of arthritis, many of which are subject to flare-ups.
Psoriatic arthritis is a form of inflammatory arthritis that can affect some of the millions of Americans who have psoriasis. Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes a red, scaly rash, most commonly over the elbows, knees, ankles, feet, hands, and other areas. 1 Arthritis mutilans: Arthritis mutilans is a severe, deforming, and destructive form of psoriatic arthritis that primarily affects the small joints in the fingers and toes closest to the nail.
Introduction. Psoriatic arthritis is a type of arthritis that develops in some people with the skin condition psoriasis. It typically causes affected joints to become inflamed (swollen), stiff and painful. Between one and two in every five people with psoriasis will develop psoriatic arthritis. 
Fast Facts. 1  Psoriatic arthritis is a chronic arthritis. 2  In some people, it is mild, with just occasional flare ups. 3  In other people, it is continuous and can cause joint damage if it is not treated. 4  Early diagnosis is important to avoid damage to joints. Psoriatic arthritis can affect any joint in the body, and it may affect just one joint, several joints or multiple joints. For example, it may affect one or both knees. Affected fingers and toes can resemble swollen sausages, a condition often referred to as dactylitis. Finger and toe nails also may be affected.
Psoriatic arthritis: Preventing flare-ups. Psoriatic arthritis can be an unpredictable condition, and worsening of symptoms or flare-ups can be triggered by stress. Exercise. When you’re feeling stressed and your psoriatic arthritis symptoms are worse, exercise can be one of the first things to be neglected. If you’re tempted to bury those trainers in the back of your wardrobe, keep in mind that exercise can be an incredibly effective stress reliever.
To deal with psoriatic arthritis symptoms during a flare-up, take these steps: 1. Decrease pain and stiffness. For occasional discomfort, Fields says, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen or naproxen can be beneficial. Ask your doctor about increasing the dose during a flare-up. Psoriatic arthritis, which can attack joints anywhere in the body, affects everyone differently. Some people experience pain and stiffness in the hands, wrists, or elbows, while others feel stiffness in the feet, spine, hips, or shoulders.