Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses The two DNA strands are known as polynucleotides since they are composed of simpler units called nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of a nitrogen-containing nucleobase —either cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A), or thymine (T)—as well as a monosaccharide sugar called deoxyribose and a phosphate group.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). The abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, the primary carrier of genetic information found in the chromosomes of almost all organisms. The entwined double structure allows the chromosomes to be copied exactly during cell division. n an acronym for deoxyribonucleic acid. A type of nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for the development of cellular life forms. Capable of replicating itself and of producing another type of nucleic acid known as RNA. n the DNA specific to a bacterial strain.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). A type of nucleic acid that constitutes the molecular basis of heredity. It is found principally in the nucleus of all cells where it forms part of the chromosome, or in the cytoplasm of cells lacking a nucleus, such as bacteria. n an acronym for deoxyribonucleic acid. A type of nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for the development of cellular life forms. Capable of replicating itself and of producing another type of nucleic acid known as RNA. n the DNA specific to a bacterial strain.
Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is a modified form of another sugar called ribose. I'm going to give you the structure of that first, because you will need it later anyway. Ribose is the sugar in the backbone of RNA, ribonucleic acid. 
DNA. Short for deoxyribonucleic acid. The nucleic acid that is the genetic material determining the makeup of all living cells and many viruses. It consists of two strands of nucleotides linked together in a structure resembling a ladder twisted into a spiral. 1. DNA - (biochemistry) a long linear polymer found in the nucleus of a cell and formed from nucleotides and shaped like a double helix; associated with the transmission of genetic information; DNA is the king of molecules. deoxyribonucleic acid, des
DNA. deoxyribonucleic acid: an extremely long, double-stranded nucleic acid molecule arranged as a double helix that is the main constituent of the chromosome and that carries the genes as segments along its strands: found chiefly in the chromatin of cells and in many viruses. [1930–35]. 1. DNA - (biochemistry) a long linear polymer found in the nucleus of a cell and formed from nucleotides and shaped like a double helix; associated with the transmission of genetic information; DNA is the king of molecules. deoxyribonucleic acid, desoxyribonucleic acid.
Deoxyribonucleic acid is the hereditary material in all known living organisms containing the genetic instructions used in their development and functioning. The DNA segments carrying this genetic information are called genes. It is is found inside a special area of the cell called the nucleus. The code of DNA is made up of four chemical bases name 1  :-. Adenine (A). 2  Guanine (G). 3  Cytosine (C). 4  Thymine (T)
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA.