Satyr plays were an ancient Greek form of tragicomedy, similar in spirit to the bawdy satire of burlesque. They featured choruses of satyrs, were based on Greek mythology, and were rife with mock drunkenness, brazen sexuality (including phallic props), pranks, sight gags, and general merriment. 
0 Shares. Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Satyr. hairy one. Mentioned in Greek mythology as a creature composed of a man and a goat, supposed to inhabit wild and desolate regions. The Hebrew word is rendered also goat (Leviticus 4:24) and devil, i.e., an idol in the form of a goat (17:7; 2 Chr. 11:15). Dictionaries-Smith's Bible Dictionary-Satyr. (satyr or satyr), a sylvan deity or demigod of Greek mythology, represented as a monster, part man and part goat. (Isaiah 13:21; 34:14) The Hebrew word signifies hairy or rough, and is frequently applied to he-goats.. In the passages cited it probably refers to demons of woods and desert places
Full Definition of SATYR. 1. often capitalized: a sylvan deity in Greek mythology having certain characteristics of a horse or goat and fond of Dionysian revelry. 2. a: a lecherous man b: one having satyriasis. 3. : any of various satyrid butterflies. — sa·tyr·ic \sā-ˈtir-ik, sə-, sa-\ adjective. : one of the forest gods in Greek mythology who have faces and bodies like men and ears, legs, and tails like goats.
sa·tyr. n. 1. often Satyr Greek Mythology A woodland creature depicted as having the pointed ears, legs, and short horns of a goat and a fondness for unrestrained revelry. 2. A licentious man; a lecher. 3. A man who is affected by satyriasis
Grover Underwood, first satyr introduced in series. Satyrs, also known as Fauns by Romans, are creatures with the upper body of a man and the lower body of a goat complete with hairy goat legs and hooves, as well as goat horns, and the pointed ears of a goat.
sa·tyr. n. 1. often Satyr Greek Mythology A woodland creature depicted as having the pointed ears, legs, and short horns of a goat and a fondness for unrestrained revelry. 2. A licentious man; a lecher. 3. A man who is affected by satyriasis. 4. 
In Greek mythology, a satyr (UK /ˈsaetə/ , ˈSæTə /us/ ; ˈseɪtər: greek σάτυρος, [satyros]) satyros sátyros is one of a troop of ithyphallic male Companions of dionysus-with (horse) like, equine features including-a, horse-tail horse, like ears and sometimes-a horse like phallus because of. permanent erection The goat on the left has a short goat tail, but the Greek satyr on the right has a long horse tail, not a goat tail (Attic ceramic, 520 BC). Satyrs acquired their goat-like aspect through later Roman conflation with Faunus, a carefree Italic nature spirit of similar characteristics and identified with the Greek god Pan.
A humanized Satyr is depicted in a work of Praxiteles known as the  Resting Satyr . Greek spirits [non-classical] known as Calicantsars have a noticeable resemblance to the ancient satyrs; they have goats' ears and the feet of donkeys or goats or horses, are covered with hair, and love women and the dance. The goat on the left has a short goat tail, but the Greek satyr on the right has a long horse tail, not a goat tail (Attic ceramic, 520 BC). Satyrs acquired their goat-like aspect through later Roman conflation with Faunus, a carefree Italic nature spirit of similar characteristics and identified with the Greek god Pan