The diversity of life has generally been divided into a few – four to six – fundamental ‘kingdoms’. The most influential system, the ‘Whittaker’ five kingdom structure, recognises Monera (prokaryotes) and four eukaryotic kingdoms: Animalia (Metazoa), Plantae, Fungi and Protista. Whittaker's system, somewhat modified, was presented as more realistic than the traditional division of life into animals and plants
The most common classification creates four kingdoms in this domain: Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. These domains are further divided into a lot of smaller categories: phyla (singular: phylum), classes, orders, families, genera (singular: genus), and species. They are multicellular. 2. They are autotrophs. 3. Plant cells have cell walls made of cellulose. 4. Plant cells have chloroplasts that perform photosynthesis. 5. They alternate generations. It's not too hard to pick out a plant. The green color and growth in a fixed place is usually a good indicator.
1 All living things Eukaryote Bacteria Monera Eubacteria Archaebacteria Archaea protista fungi plantae Animalia THE SIX KINGDOMS. 2  3. TYPES OF LIVING THINGS Plant cells Protist cells Bacteria Viruses Autotrophic: Plant cells, some protist cells Heterotrophic: Animal cells, some protist cells, fungal cells, & bacteria Vs. 
In five kingdom systems, Protista is a grab-bag for all eukaryotes that are not animals, plants or fungi. This grab-bag is sometimes considered as an interim convenience or, very dubiously, to recognise a distinct ‘grade’ of organisation. The most influential system, the ‘Whittaker’ five kingdom structure, recognises Monera (prokaryotes) and four eukaryotic kingdoms: Animalia (Metazoa), Plantae, Fungi and Protista.
Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. The four eukaryotic kingdoms include animalia, plantae, fungi and protista. All organisms in these kingdoms have cells that have a nucleus, unlike prokaryotic cells. Almost all organisms in the eukaryotic kingdoms are multicellular organisms. 1  What Are the Two Prokaryotic Kingdoms?
Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes. The six kingdoms of living things are divided into two major groups, Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes. There are two prokaryote kingdoms and four eukaryote kingdoms. There are huge fundamental differences between the ways these two groups go about living. Here is just the briefest of distinctions. Eukaryotes have a separate membrane bound nucleus, numerous mitochondria and other organelles such as the Golgi Body within each of their cells. These areas are separated off from the main mass of the cell's cytoplasm by their own membrane in order to allow them to be more specialised.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. the kingdom of eukaryotic cells are fungi, plantae, animalia, and protista and the kingdoms of prodaryotic cells are archaebacteria and eubacteria. 
Protist Kingdom. The Protist Kingdom consists of mostly unicellular organisms that can have characteristics similar to plants, animals or fungi. Characteristics of Protists: mostly unicellular, few multicellular, eukaryotic, can be heterotrophic or autotrophic. Ex: algae, Paramecium, kelp (multicellular).   .
L iving organisms are subdivided into 5 major kingdoms, including the Monera, the Protista (Protoctista), the Fungi, the Plantae, and the Animalia. Each kingdom is further subdivided into separate phyla or divisions. Generally animals are subdivided into phyla, while plants are subdivided into divisions. These remarkable organisms are now placed in the domain Archaea. Other prokaryotes, including eubacteria and cyanobacteria, are placed in the domain Bacteria. All the kingdoms of eukaryotes, including Protista (Protoctista), Fungi, Plantae and Animalia, are placed in the domain Eukarya. The large molecular differences between the majority of prokaryotes in the kingdom Monera and the archaebacteria warrants a separation based on categories above the level of kingdom