As of September 16, 2015, the following tests have delays in normal turnaround times: Y-DNA – 9 to 10 weeks. Toggle. Most of our tests typically take 6 to 8 weeks to complete from the time we receive your sample in our lab, except Family Finder, which is usually 4 to 5 weeks and Big Y, which is usually 8 to 10 weeks.
How long does a DNA test take will depend on the DNA test that you desire for yourself, also the cost will differ accordingly. Some tests are easy to perform and don’t cost much, such as paternity tests. For every DNA test you need a sample of your blood from which the DNA is extracted and analyzed. The DNA test mostly relies on the experience of the lab scientist that observes the structure closely to figure out the genes within the DNA.
Paternity testing usually takes 2 business days from the time that all samples arrive at the laboratory, as long as no recollection is needed. Other tests, like grandparent, sibling, or aunt/uncle tests, may take up to 2 weeks. 
Technical review: 3 hours Administrative review: 30 minutes. Total Time Spent on Case: 54 hours 15 minutes. Conclusion. Obviously, this time-line is a rough estimate of how long it would take to analyze a relatively straightforward case based on my experience in the laboratory. The total time adds up to approximately 54 hours and 15 minutes.
In the end how long does a DNA test take is a question that can never be answered correctly, you have to try your best to find the best DNA lab in your neighborhood where the blood samples are properly collected. For every DNA test you need a sample of your blood from which the DNA is extracted and analyzed. The DNA test mostly relies on the experience of the lab scientist that observes the structure closely to figure out the genes within the DNA.
Organic extraction: 4 hours 30 minutes Organic differential extraction: 8 hours 30 minutes QIAamp® DNA Micro extraction: 2 hours 30 minutes. Total Time Spent On Case At This Point: 22 hours. DNA Quantitation. The next step is to determine how much human DNA is present in the extracted samples. Total Time Spent on Case: 54 hours 15 minutes. Conclusion. Obviously, this time-line is a rough estimate of how long it would take to analyze a relatively straightforward case based on my experience in the laboratory. The total time adds up to approximately 54 hours and
Share this Post. If you’re wondering how long it takes to get the results back from a DNA paternity test, the answer can vary, depending on which lab you choose. While some DNA labs can provide results in 1-2 days, others can take 3-12 weeks or longer!
There are many methods used by forensic scientists to collect your DNA samples, but how long does a DNA test take? The process does not take more than 7 days but depending on your DNA structure and lab quality it may take up to 10 or more days. For every DNA test you need a sample of your blood from which the DNA is extracted and analyzed. The DNA test mostly relies on the experience of the lab scientist that observes the structure closely to figure out the genes within the DNA.