1 Accommodation: In most Western European countries, expect to pay 20–30 euros per night for a dorm room. ( 2 Though in Greece and Spain, it’s only 10–20 euros per night.) In Scandinavia, expect to pay around 30–35 Euros per night. I’ve been going to Europe for four years now, and I’ve visited a lot of places. Europe isn’t cheap, but there are plenty of ways to cut down costs. Recently, I went through Amsterdam, Greece, Italy, and Hungary. In 59 days of traveling, I spent 4,317 euros, which averages out to 73.17 euros per day.
Overall, I think for a budget traveler moving around Western Europe, this is a realistic daily budget. While the cost of Eu-rope can fluctuate, the cheap and expensive countries average out. In Greece, you can spend 40 euros or less per day. In Italy or France, 70 euros will cut it if you don’t eat out. I’ve been going to Europe for four years now, and I’ve visited a lot of places. Europe isn’t cheap, but there are plenty of ways to cut down costs. Recently, I went through Amsterdam, Greece, Italy, and Hungary. In 59 days of traveling, I spent 4,317 euros, which averages out to 73.17 euros per day.
This is due to a high cost per stay for these patients, an average of $11,260, as well as a high volume of stays. Injury and other consequences of external causes (such as falls, accidents, poisoning) represent the second largest expense for acute care hospitals, accounting for 10 per cent of total inpatient costs. - Though pregnancy and childbirth accounted for the highest volume of stays, they represented only 5 per cent of total inpatient costs. - When childbirth is excluded, it costs more, on average, to treat male patients ($7,964 per stay) in a hospital than it does to treat female patients ($6,236 per stay).
Countryside trip. The other lowest-cost way to visit for a week Europe is to stay in the countryside. You can either set up a single base and do day-trip excursions to nearby attractions or you can move around every day or two, in short hops. Obviously, this sort of trip requires a rental car. One-city trip. One of the two least expensive options for a one-week European trip to stay in just one major city. Then, you only costs are round-trip airfare, hotel accommodations, meals, local transportation, sightseeing and admissions, and incidentals. Let's look at a trip with seven nights in Europe.
1 Activities: Most museums and tours start at around 10 euros. 2  It’s cheaper, of course, in east-ern Europe. 3  Full-day tours cost 30–50 euros. 4  Prices vary drastically per country, so it’s hard to give a good general cost of this budget item. I’ve been going to Europe for four years now, and I’ve visited a lot of places. Europe isn’t cheap, but there are plenty of ways to cut down costs. Recently, I went through Amsterdam, Greece, Italy, and Hungary. In 59 days of traveling, I spent 4,317 euros, which averages out to 73.17 euros per day.
• Rental car: You can rent a small car for under $300 a week, including taxes and fees, in most of Europe; less than that in some countries. Use your credit card to provide collision coverage; buying the rental company's CDW would add another $250 to $300 a week. Add $150 for gas, for a total cost of $450. One-city trip. One of the two least expensive options for a one-week European trip to stay in just one major city. Then, you only costs are round-trip airfare, hotel accommodations, meals, local transportation, sightseeing and admissions, and incidentals. Let's look at a trip with seven nights in Europe.
I try to pick hotels that range from $100 to $150 per day. I do what I want to do, and I don't pay a lot of attention to the cost, unless it's very high, in which case my hidden frugal streak will emerge. Nowadays I usually stay in a given country for about 3 weeks. We generally spend no more than $4,500 per 10 day trip, incl. rental car and airfare to Bavaria and Austria. We don't really care for staying in cities or much city sightseeing and stay in the countryside in family owned/run Pension's and B&B style places, which normally run 50 to 60 Euro per night for both of us.
: If you stay in a B+B outside the center of London (), plan $200-$250 per person per day for daily expenses (see above) while in London. Double that amount if you must stay in a hotel in central London. Add more if you plan to stay on weeknights. : Outside London, plan $100-125 per person per day for daily expenses (see above). A typical budget for a modest but comfortable two-week trip to England is $3,000 per person including airfare, car rental and daily expenses for three weekend days in London and the rest of the time in the countryside.
In Bavaria, most, but not all, hostels require guests to be under 26 years of age. Back to top How much does it cost to stay in a hostel? Adult prices range from $15.00-$45.00 (per night, per person), with the most common prices being between $20.00-$30.00 (per night, per person). 