Radio waves have much longer wavelengths and lower frequencies than do visible light waves. In contrast, X-rays have much shorter wavelengths and higher frequencies. Likewise, red light has a longer wavelength than blue light. WAVELENGTH and FREQUENCY: All forms of radiation (or light) can be thought of as consisting of waves. Therefore, we can characterize electromagnetic waves by their WAVELENGTH. Let's use an analogy to the waves on the ocean. Think about what happens to a small boat bobbing
A high energy light will have a shorter wavelength than a low energy light. If the wavelength goes down, then the frequency goes up. When calculating energy in the equation, E=hv, frequency (v) is the variable, not the wavelength. So in the equation, if you wanted a more energy (E), you would have the frequency be large. For the frequency to be big, then the wavelength has to be low.
Aesthetic Workstation. The Elite+™ Aesthetic Workstation is a high-powered, dual-wavelength system that delivers energy faster for faster results. The Elite+’s wavelengths are the gold standard for hair removal, facial and leg veins, epidermal pigmented lesions, and wrinkle reduction on all skin types. 
If the wave is traveling in a dispersive medium, the frequency of the wave will affect the speed (and the group delay and phase delay will not be the same). The type of dispersive medium also determines whether high frequency waves will travel faster or slower than lower frequency waves. The wavelength of any sound wave will be proportional to its speed and inversely proportional to its frequency. l = c / f, where l is the wavelength, c is the speed, and f … is the frequency. In air, at sea level, 20 C and dry conditions, the speed of sound is about 340 m/s.
A wave with a high frequency has a low wavelength.   Wavelength lambda and frequency f are connected by the speed c of the medium.   c can be air = 343 m/s at 20 d … egrees celsius or water at 0 dgrees = 1450 m/s. The wavelength of any sound wave will be proportional to its speed and inversely proportional to its frequency. l = c / f, where l is the wavelength, c is the speed, and f … is the frequency. In air, at sea level, 20 C and dry conditions, the speed of sound is about 340 m/s.
Comparing two waves of the same wavelength, a higher frequency is associated with faster movement. Comparing two waves of different wavelengths, a higher frequency doesn't always indicate faster movement, although it can. Waves of different wavelengths can have the same frequency. 
So, if the wavelength of a light wave is shorter, that means that the frequency will be higher because one cycle can pass in a shorter amount of time. This means that more cycles can pass by the set point in 1 second. 
Report Abuse. False. Light travels at the same speed regardless of the wavelength. Longer wavelengths mean that it takes longer for the entire wave to pass a single point than it takes for a shorter wavelength to pass a single point, since the light travels at the same speed. Less waves per second mean a lower frequency of waves per second. So, longer wavelengths have a lower frequency than shorter wavelengths. But, they both travel at the exact same speed. .
Shorter wavelengths mean higher frequencies, while longer wavelengths mean lower frequencies. Sound waves with a wavelength around 34 cm (about a foot) have a frequency of 1,000 hertz. A hertz is one wave per second. So a thousand sound waves can enter your ear in a second! Sound waves travel much faster than normal water waves. Sound waves move through the air at around 343 meters/second (767 miles/hour). Light moves even faster AND has shorter wavelengths. These combine to give light extremely high frequencies. Red light has a wavelength of about 682 nanometers. Its frequency is around 440 terahertz. That's 440,000,000,000,000 hertz