Fast charge: Repeated fast charges on a battery may overcharge a battery and reduce service life. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery.
The more discharged that a battery is, then the longer it will take to recharge it. Usually it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery. Slow charging rates vary depending on the battery's type and capacit
Report Abuse. It depends if you are using a trickle charger or a battery charger. Recommend following the instructions on the battery charger. Check on the battery every 1/2 hour. Try to start the car after an hour. Do not make too many attempts to turn the car over or you will end up charging the battery from scratch. First off I would have charged the battery without removing it from the car. Because usually you just charge it long enough to start the car and then it will charge the rest of the way while you are driving somewhere. Use the Start/Charge setting on the charger and charge for about 2 hours.
How to charge a battery. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. If there is a power point handy, the battery can be left in the car, so long as the charge rate is only 3 or 4 amps. However, if the car has an alternator, disconnect the battery. beforehand: otherwise some alternators-generally the older type-can be damaged. If separate. caps are fitted, remove them for ventilation.
Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity (RC). In order to calculate the amount of amp-hours in a battery, multiply the reserve capacity by 0.6. Usually, it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is almost completely discharged, it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge. If the battery becomes hot to the touch while recharging, then immediately stop charging. Follow these steps when recharging
Times vary in regards to how long it takes to charge a car battery. If you jump start your car and charge the battery through the process of using your alternator, it will likely take an hour (at least) to fully charge your battery. When using a battery charger, you can vary the time by lowering the amperage. 
A basic charger usually charges at around 2 amps-and so needs 24 hours to deliver the 48 amps needed to fully charge a flat, 48 amp hour battery. But there is a wide range of chargers with different charge rates on the market-from 2 to 10 amps. The higher the charge output, the faster a flat battery is recharged. If there is a power point handy, the battery can be left in the car, so long as the charge rate is only 3 or 4 amps. However, if the car has an alternator, disconnect the battery. beforehand: otherwise some alternators-generally the older type-can be damaged. If separate. caps are fitted, remove them for ventilation.
RE: How long does a car battery charger take to fully charge a battery? My car broke down on me again and we’ve been charging the battery on an external charger for a couple of hours now so we can see if it was the battery or my alternator. Depenind on what type charger you have Shops use commercial chargers Properly charging an automotive battery goes like this. Charge at a rate of 30 amps for 30 minute intervals and recheck. This can take up to 8 hours to fully recharge a battery. Joe D. · 8 years ago.
It all depends on the charger and how dead the battery is. Mine is usually 4 hours. Once your battery is charged put it back in and start the car. Unhook the negative from the battery. If it is your alternator the car will shut off, if it isn't the car will still run. Depenind on what type charger you have Shops use commercial chargers Properly charging an automotive battery goes like this. Charge at a rate of 30 amps for 30 minute intervals and recheck. This can take up to 8 hours to fully recharge a battery. Joe D. · 8 years ago.