The three kinds of koalas; Victoria koala, the New South Wales koala, and the Queensland koala, are named after the states in which they live. Victoria koala. Lives in the southern part of Australia, where the climate is cool. The koala is an arboreal animal. Arboreal means “living in trees”. Koalas live, eat, and sleep in the top branches of eucalyptus trees, also known as gum trees. Males koalas have a special area on their chest that leaves a scent.
Koalas live in the native eucalyptus bushland of Australia, both inland and near the coastal areas of the eastern states. They do climb other native trees, such as acacia (wat … tle) and melaleuca. Koalas are primarily arboreal, living high in gum trees in the temperate zone. They live in eucalyptus trees and eat only a few … types of gum leaves from which they get all nutrients and water requirements. Eucalyptus leaves are tough, toxic and low in nutrition, but the koala has developed a stomach which is capable of removing the toxins from where they are filtered out by the liver.
Koalas vary in height and weight according to the region where they  live.    Koalas in northern parts of Australia are smaller, with males  growing to 74 cm and weig … hing 9 kg, and females growing to 72 cm  and weighing 7.25 kg. They live in eucalyptus trees and eat only a few … types of gum leaves from which they get all nutrients and water requirements. Eucalyptus leaves are tough, toxic and low in nutrition, but the koala has developed a stomach which is capable of removing the toxins from where they are filtered out by the liver.
As one of the most iconic animal species endemic to Australia, the koala is well-known for its bear-like appearance with a stout body and predominately gray fur. Often found climbing in the canopy of trees, koalas are fuzzy and muscular marsupials that are the only remaining representative of their family on Earth. Found only in its endemic range of Australia, the koala appears in the highest density levels around the eastern and southern coasts or inland areas of Queensland, Victoria, South Australia, and New South Wales.
Koalas do not live all over Australia. The koala lives mostly within the temperate zones of Australia. Its habitat is eucalypt woodland and bushland, but of the several hundred species of eucalyptus (gum trees), koalas prefer about 60 varieties, with their specific preferences being limited to a couple of dozen. The koala lives mostly within the temperate zones of Australia. Its habitat is eucalypt woodland and bushland, but of the several hu … 
Country and Continent. The Koala (Phascolarctos cinereus) is a marsupial mammal (not a bear). It is endemic to the continent of Australia, meaning that it is not found on any other continent or island group. They live in eucalyptus trees and eat only a few … types of gum leaves from which they get all nutrients and water requirements. Eucalyptus leaves are tough, toxic and low in nutrition, but the koala has developed a stomach which is capable of removing the toxins from where they are filtered out by the liver.
The koala’s habitat is in the country of Australia. Their range is between the eastern and southern parts of the country. Information facts about their population and habitat vary, but they live mainly in the Australian states of Queensland, New South Wales, South Australia, and Victoria. 
The koala (Phascolarctos cinereus, or, inaccurately, koala bear) is an arboreal herbivorous marsupial native to Australia. It is the only extant representative of the family Phascolarctidae, and its closest living relatives are the wombats. 
Koalas are native to Australia. They are not found in any other country in the world. Koalas are found in all states of Australia except Tasmania and Western Australia. Most koalas in South Australia were exterminated, but they were repopulated with some Victorian koalas. 