Salary results for Part Time in London. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again based on last month's job ads.
Average Part Time salaries for job postings in California are 7% higher than average Part Time salaries for job postings nationwide. 
High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again based on last month's job ads. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares.
Minimum Wage and Incentives. Part-time workers earn minimum wage more often than full-time employees, according to the National Center for Policy Analysis. As of 2013, the federal minimum wage equaled $7.25 per hour. BLS considers an employee working 1 to 34 hours per week to be part time, while 35 or more hours per week is considered full time.
Answer:   The minimum salary in the NFL is $260,000 per year. The scale goes up for each year of service and-according to his position. The minimum for a rookie is $260 … ,000 per year and that rises to $765,000 per year for a player who has played six or more years in a NON skilled position. For a quarterback or running back or receiver-the minimum wage after 6 years is $1,000,000 per year. 31 people found this useful.
The average salary for part time jobs for teens jobs is $56,000. Average part time jobs for teens salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. Part Time Jobs For Teens Salary Information. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine.
part time hotel manager salary part time hotel manager average salary is $ 57200 median salary is with a salary range from $ 57200 to $ 57200 part time hotel manager salaries are collected from government agencies and companies each salary is associated with a real job position part time hotel manager salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only
According to Demos, an organization focused on public policy, the lowest earning part-time retail employees receive a median wage of $8.25. When all part-time retail workers are included, the median wage rises to $9.61. By comparison, their full-time counterparts receive median wages of $9.61 to $14.42. BLS considers an employee working 1 to 34 hours per week to be part time, while 35 or more hours per week is considered full time.
According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average salaries for all 125,000 workers in the motion picture and video industries was $10.75 per hour or $22,370 per year as of May 2011. 
Salary results for Part Time. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares.