As with laptops and TVs, the screen on your cell phone drains a lot of its battery life. Your phone probably auto-adjusts its brightness level, but if your battery starts dipping to levels that make you anxious, you can adjust the screen brightness even lower to conserve more battery life. Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, and GPS are some of the biggest battery killers on cell phones, because they are constantly looking for possible connections, networks, or information. Turn off these features (look in your phone's settings) except when you need them to save power.
Here's a simple fix. You head out for the day and use your Android phone the same as usual. In the middle of the day your phone notifies you that your battery is almost dead. Here's how to stop the drain. By James Kendrick for Mobile News |. | Topic: Mobility
A cellphone battery, much like a car battery, will drain while it is being used. Certain actions and use patterns will increase the rate at which it drains. However, unless the phone is shut off completely, the battery is always draining to some degree. One of the most common reasons for a cellphone battery to drain is excessive usage. Talking, surfing the web, sending text messages, and watching videos will all take a toll on your cellphone battery.
If your battery is charging that quickly, it’s not charging to full capacity. Either your battery is old or defective. You should replace it with a new one from Samsung. The standard 2100mAh battery should give you plenty of power-I would not recommend using a battery not designed for the phone. Fortunately, Android has some of the best tools to find out what's killing your battery. Once you've identified the culprits, chances are you can extend your phone's battery life by changing some settings and taking a couple of steps to conserve battery power.
Even when your phone is “idle”, it is still maintaining a signal with cell towers and syncing data. If you’re in an area with poor coverage, it can make your phone work harder to connect, causing faster battery drain. A bad or failig battery can also cause the phone to drain faster than it should, even when idle. Fortunately, Android has some of the best tools to find out what's killing your battery. Once you've identified the culprits, chances are you can extend your phone's battery life by changing some settings and taking a couple of steps to conserve battery power.
Instructions. Power on the cell phone with the battery inside. Leave the cell phone on until the battery drains. This may take several days. You can speed the process by talking on the phone, since cell phones have a shorter talk time than standby time. Enable wireless services such as Bluetooth or Wi-Fi. Before you put it away, you should give some thought to the battery. If you are storing a battery for a cellular phone, it's best to store it empty, or almost empty. Long term storage of the lithium ion batteries that cell phones use can lower the total storage capacity of the battery if it is stored at full charge.
GPS is a huge battery hog, as it harnesses data from the phone's GPS chip, cell phone towers, and Wi-Fi hotspots to find your location. The more a phone surveys your location, the more battery it uses. And that goes beyond just Google Maps. Android gets a bad rap for short battery life, but that's only if you stick with its default settings. Make these simple adjustments to give your phone or tablet a battery boost. This content is rated TV-MA, and is for viewers 18 years or older.
Android phones are good smartphones, but they occasionally suffer from the nasty Sudden Battery Drain Syndome.. That's the situation where the phone battery, with no different use by the owner, suddenly drains for no apparent reason. You head out for the day and use your Android phone the same as usual. In the middle of the day your phone notifies you that your battery is almost dead. Here's how to stop the drain. By James Kendrick for Mobile News |.