Kgalema Petrus Motlanthe was born in Boksburg at the Boksburg-Benoni Hospital in the East Rand, Gauteng province of the Republic of South Africa – then Transvaal Province of the Union of South Africa. Kgalema Motlanthe’s parents were married in 1946; his father, Louis Mathakoe Motlanthe, was a cleaner and his mother who died in 2014, Masefako Sophia Madingoane, was a domestic worker.
In late 2007, he was elected president of the African National Congress, the country's leading political party, defeating Thabo Mbeki. In 2009, Zuma was elected president of South Africa, defeating Kgalema Motlanthe, who currently serves as his deputy president. As the leader of the ANC, Zuma is the party's prime candidate for the presidency in South Africa's 2014 elections. This has created some concern over the country's economic future. In 2009, Zuma was elected president of South Africa, defeating Kgalema Motlanthe, who currently serves as his deputy president. As the leader of the ANC, Zuma is the party's prime candidate for the presidency in South Africa's 2014 elections.
After the end of his presidency, Motlanthe was appointed as the Deputy President of South Africa by his successor, current South African president Jacob Zuma. Motlanthe served as Deputy President of the African National Congress (ANC), a position he held from 2007 until 2012, when he declined to run for a second term. Today, Motlanthe, a left-leaning intellectual, is seen as a highly skilled political operator within the politics of South Africa, and a key figure behind the success of Jacob Zuma. Motlanthe also holds the status of having been South Africa's first Northern Sotho-speaking president.
Kgalema Petrus Motlanthe was born on 19 July 1949 at the Boksburg-Benoni Hospital. He grew up in Alexandra, Johannesburg, Transvaal (now Gauteng). His parents, Louis Mathakoe Motlanthe, a cleaner and Masefako Sophia Madingoane, a domestic worker married in 1946. When he was 11, his parents were forced to move from Alexander to Meadowlands [Johannesburg, Gauteng]. He first attended school in Ga-Mothiba, Northern Transvaal [now Limpopo]. Motlanthe returned to Alexandra and enrolled in Grade 1 at an Anglican Missionary School.
Kgalema Motlanthe is the current Deputy President of the country-a position he's sexpected to vacate for ANC Deputy President, Cyril Ramaphosa. (SABC). Kgalema Motlanthe was born on 19 July 1949 in Alexandra township, Johannesburg, to a working class family. Most of his childhood was spent in Alexandra and much of his adult life was spent in Meadowlands, Soweto. In the 1970s, while working for the Johannesburg City Council, he was recruited into Umkhonto we Sizwe
Kgalema Motlanthe. Kgalema Motlanthe is the South African politician who served as President of South Africa for the remainder of Thabo Mbeki ‘s second term and as Deputy President of South Africa during Jacob Zuma ‘s first term. Kgalema Motlanthe’s parents were married in 1946; his father, Louis Mathakoe Motlanthe, was a cleaner and his mother who died in 2014, Masefako Sophia Madingoane, was a domestic worker.
Some notes on the man the ANC is deploying to the South African Presidency. Petrus Kgalema Motlanthe was born in Alexandra Township on July 19 1949, the oldest boy of his parents' six children. His mother was a washer woman who later worked in a clothing factory. His father worked in Anglo-American's head office. 
Kgalema Petrus Motlanthe (. [ˈkxɑ.lɪ.mɑ mʊ.ˈtɬʼɑ.n.tʰɛ] ; born 19 July 1949) is a South African politician who served as President of South Africa between 25 September 2008 and 9 May 2009, following the resignation of Thabo Mbeki. Today, Motlanthe, a left-leaning intellectual, is seen as a highly skilled political operator within the politics of South Africa, and a key figure behind the success of Jacob Zuma. Motlanthe also holds the status of having been South Africa's first Northern Sotho-speaking president.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Kgalema Petrus Motlanthe (born 19 July 1949) is a South African politician who was President of South Africa between 25 September 2008 and 9 May 2009. This happened following the resignation of Thabo Mbeki. After the end of his presidency, Motlanthe was appointed as the Deputy President of South Africa by his successor, current South African president Jacob Zuma. In March 2014, he announced his resignation to become a dean at ANC. Motlanthe was born on 19 July 1949 in Boksburg, Transvaal Province, Union of South Africa