Starting with urine tests, Adderall can usually be detected in urine tests for 1-3 days after last use. This is much less than street drugs like weed, but it might still be inconvenient to go without medication for three days. If you want to know how long does Adderall stay in your system, there are a few factors to consider. We'll go through all these and give you the facts. Although Adderall is a legal prescription drug, it's made from a combination of amphetamines and dextroamphetamines.
Since Adderall is an amphetamine, the length of time it is detectable in your urine will depend upon the type you are using and the frequency of your use. If you are taking Adderall instant-release, it will stay in your body for approximately 35 hours. This does vary due to individual body type and habits. Using Adderall XR (extended-release) will cause it to stay in your system for approximately 60 hours. On average, all amphetamines will clear your system in about 72 hours. This does depend on what type of testing is being performed.
Hair Testing Amphetamine is detectable with hair tests and is included in the standard set of substances tested for with these tests. Hair tests generally take the most recent 1.5 inches of growth and use those for testing. That provides a detection period of approximately 90 days. Instant release aderall usually stays in your system for only 3-4 days, depending on your diet and metabolism. because aderall is a stimulant your body processes it much faster than most prescription drugs. The extended release tablets however will stay in your system longer.
When taking Adderall, you will come up positive for amphetamines in a test. Informally known as speed, it was a popular drug especially in the 60s and 70s. Testing for amphetamines in a urine drug screen is extremely common, and even considered standard. Adderall can be detected in your urine for about 2-4 days after use, perhaps longer depending on how much you take. 
Next. i took about 3 adderall (20mg) w/o a prescription about 2.5 weeks ago, and have a drug test coming up soon...how long will this stay in my system for the urine drug test? Report Abuse. holy crap dont scare the guy... dont worry about it.. adderall only stays in your system TOPS up to 5-7 days. and that 7-10 years thc in the hair thing is a bunch of bull. i have to take a bunch of drug tests and know my way around that crap.
Amphetamine (amphetamine and methamphetamine) is one of the SAMHSA-5, the five drugs tested for in U.S. government-approved basic drug tests. Amphetamines are standardly detectable in urine for 1-3 days after use. Methamphetamines stay in the system slightly longer, 3-5 days. The Amphetamine test is a one step competitive immunoassay that is used to screen for the presence of amphetamine in urine. Instant release aderall usually stays in your system for only 3-4 days, depending on your diet and metabolism. because aderall is a stimulant your body processes it much faster than most prescription drugs. The extended release tablets however will stay in your system longer.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Adderall XR stays in the blood for about 8 hours. It will register in a urine test for 2 or 3 days. It really depends on how your body metabolizes drugs. Be sure to tell your friend to be honest about all meds. that she is on OTC and otherwise. Adderall is methamphetamine after all. 
When working out how long Adderall will stay in your system, we need to consider it from the viewpoint of drug tests. Even if some Adderall is still in your system, you can still pass a drug test. This is because drug tests have a cut-off point to minimize the number of false positives. If you want to know how long does Adderall stay in your system, there are a few factors to consider. We'll go through all these and give you the facts. Although Adderall is a legal prescription drug, it's made from a combination of amphetamines and dextroamphetamines.
Peak levels – During clinical trials, peak plasma concentrations of a single dose 10 or 30 mg of Adderall to healthy volunteers occur about 3 hours post-dose for both d-amphetamine and lamphetamine. In comparison, maximum plasma concentration of Adderall XR is about 7 hours. Half life – When administering Adderall normally, the average elimination half-life for d-amphetamine occurs at 9 – 11 hours post dose vs. 11.5 – 14 hours for l-amphetamine. The mean elimination half-life for Adderall XR is about the same as for Adderall instant release, but varies according to age and body mass. 
Share. 1. 1. 11. Half of the amount of amphetamine that you take is eliminated by your body in under 11 hours (amphetamine elimination half life). But heavy and chronic amphetamine use can be detected in your system up to one week after your last dose.