Persimmon fruit can either be astringent or non-astringent. Astringent persimmons, like the Korean and Hachiya varieties contain a high degree of tannins and must be fully ripened or specially treated. If eaten before they are ripe, the tannins in the fruit pucker the mouth, making the eating process uncomfortable.
The heart-shaped Hachiya is the most common variety of astringent persimmon. Astringent persimmons contain very high levels of soluble tannins and are unpalatably astringent (or furry tasting) if eaten before completely softened. The non-astringent persimmon is squat like a tomato and is most commonly sold as fuyu. Non-astringent persimmons are not actually free of tannins as the term suggests, but rather are far less astringent before ripening, and lose more of their tannic quality sooner.
Persimmon is Japan's national fruit and that's where it originated (American persimmons are mostly ornamental). Persimmon seeds first came to the United States when Commodore Perry sent them from Japan in 1856. Persimmons are red-brown or orange fruits that grow on trees like plums and look like a small, rather flat tomato capped by a calyx. The two varieties are stringent and non-astringent, the latter being pleasingly sweet. To avoid bitterness, the paler varieties should be eaten only when very ripe, usually peeled
5 A Day: Fruit of the Month: Persimmons. Persimmons origins go back to ancient China. Fate intervened in the 1880's when a United States Commander brought back a native Japanese persimmon variety to Washington, D.C. Now, persimmons are grown in California where hundreds of different varieties flourish. 
Ripe Persimmons on a Branch. Persimmons, if unripe, are notorious pucker-producers. When ripe, however, they're delicious. There are so many varieties of persimmons, including Japanese and American varieties, light-colored flesh, dark-colored flesh, firm and soft, says fruit expert Ed Laivo. 
Persimmon fruits have been put to various medicinal and chemical uses. Like the tomato, persimmons are not popularly considered to be berries, but in terms of botanical morphology the fruit is in fact a berry. The non-astringent persimmon is squat like a tomato and is most commonly sold as fuyu. Non-astringent persimmons are not actually free of tannins as the term suggests, but rather are far less astringent before ripening, and lose more of their tannic quality sooner.
Persimmon fruit is a golden yellow, round or oval, flavorful, smooth textured delicacy from far East Asian origin. Its sweet, delicious flesh is packed with several health promoting nutrients such as vitamins, minerals, and anti-oxidants vital for optimum health. 
4. Add ripe fruits to dessert. Soft, ripe persimmons of either type are perfect for desserts. Mix the persimmon with yogurt or ice cream, or explore these options: 1  Puree the flesh and blend with cream cheese, orange juice, honey and salt. 2  Replace the apricot in this sorbet recipe. Use shortcuts to eat unripe persimmons. There are a few tricks you can use to remove the astringency of an unripe persimmon. These will change the taste and texture, but you won't have to wait days before eating the fruit: 1  Freeze the soft fruit instead to create a sorbet-like texture.
The most widely cultivated species is the Oriental or Japanese persimmon, Diospyros kaki. In color, the ripe fruit of the cultivated strains range from light yellow-orange to dark red-orange depending on the species and variety. The non-astringent persimmon is squat like a tomato and is most commonly sold as fuyu. Non-astringent persimmons are not actually free of tannins as the term suggests, but rather are far less astringent before ripening, and lose more of their tannic quality sooner.