It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Joshua is  Jehovah is salvation . Short form of Jehoshua. Biblical: Joshua was an attendant and helper to Moses during the Israelites ' 40-year trek through the Sinai wilderness. He was appointed by God to lead the Israelites after the death of Moses. Painter Joshua Reynolds; director Joshua Logan; actors Josh Lucas, Josh Hartnett
[ 3 syll. jos-hua, jo-sh-ua ] The baby boy name Joshua is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is JH AA-SHah-Wah or JH AO-SHWah (English) †. Joshua is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Hebrew origins. The name is of the meaning Yahweh is salvation. A biblical name, it is from the elements ' yahweh ' name of God; 'sha' meaning to help, to deliver. Hosea (Hebrew), Iesous (Greek), Jehoschua (Hebrew), Jeschua (Aramaic), Oshea (Hebrew), Yehoshua (Hebrew), and Yeshua (Hebrew) are old forms of Joshua
The name Joshua is spelled Iofhua and Ioshua in the original 1611 KJV. The first part of the name Joshua, Jo, is seen in many other names in the Scriptures, like John, Joel, Joab, Jonathan, Joshaphat, Joseph, Josedech, Joche-bed, Jorim, Jonadab, etc. , and the list goes on and on. 
Joshua is a form of the name Yehoshua. Variants of the name Joshua include Jesiah, Joshawa. The names Giosue, Iokua, Joshawa, Joshuah, Joshuwa, Joshwa, Josue, Jozsua, Jozua are all forms of Joshua. Joshua has the diminutive (nickname) Josh. Joshua falls into the biblical name category. Joshua is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Jo-shu-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 25 in baby name popularity for boys with 10764 occurrences. It ranked 7799 in popular baby names for girls with 15
The masculine given name Joshua derives from the Hebrew male given name Yehoshua, meaning 'the Lord is salvation' . Currently ranked Number 14 in US births, Joshua was at it's most popular at Number 3 in 2002. Joshua is of Hebrew origin and means: God, salvation. (The name Josh is short for Joshua.)   Joshua (early Hebrew: Yehoshua, late Hebrew and Aramaic: Yeshua) means Go … d saves. Jesus is a Latin form of Joshua. Yehoshu'a (יְהוֹשֻׁעַ) means God is help
The name Joshua in the Bible. The name Joshua occurs four times in the Bible. Most famous is the judge Joshua the Ephraimite, the successor of Moses and the one who leads Israel into the Promised Land. The original name of this Joshua is Hosea (הושע) but Moses names him Joshua (Numbers 13:16).
The name Joshua is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Joshua is: A savior; a deliverer. American Meaning: The name Joshua is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Joshua is: A savior; a deliverer. Hebrew Meaning: The name Joshua is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Joshua is: Jehovah is generous. Jehovah saves. In the Old Testament, Joshua was chosen to succeed Moses as leader of the Israelites for their journey to the Promised Land
From the Hebrew name יְהוֹשֻׁעַ (Yehoshu'a) meaning  YAHWEH is salvation. Joshua was one of the twelve spies sent into Canaan by Moses, as told in the Old Testament. After Moses died Joshua succeeded him as leader of the Israelites. As an English name, Joshua has been in use since the Protestant Reformation.
The Biblical baby name Joshua is Hebrew in origin and its meaning is Jehovah is my salvation, or saved by Jehovah. Jesus is the English/ Greek version of the Hebrew name Joshua. Joshua is pronounced jo-shoo'-ah. Joshua is the name of four men in the Bible. 