The air cell increases in size during incubation at a rate that depends on temperature and humidity as moisture evaporates from the egg. The drawing shows the normal size of an egg's air cell at 7, 14, and 18 days of incubation. Size of the air cell in the egg on the 7th, 14th, and 18th day of incubation. Hatching and brooding small numbers of chicks. An incubator is an enclosure having controlled temperature, humidity, and ventilation. The information in this extension folder is a guide for the general operation of a small, still-air incubator. Small incubators can be purchased, or you can make your own.
During the final three days of incubation, the eggs should ideally be located in a slightly cooler (98.5 degrees) and more humid (65 percent relative humidity or greater) environment to facilitate successful hatching. Experts recommend that you set the temperature of your still-air incubator to 101 to 102 degrees to best avoid the formation of cold spots on the inside. Set forced-air incubators at the desired temperature because the moving air creates a more uniform temperature environment.
Fertile chicken eggs can be stored up to 10 days (before incubating) with little loss in hatchability – as long as you keep them out of the refrigerator. The ideal storage conditions are 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 70 to 75 percent relative humidity. Experts recommend that you set the temperature of your still-air incubator to 101 to 102 degrees to best avoid the formation of cold spots on the inside. Set forced-air incubators at the desired temperature because the moving air creates a more uniform temperature environment.
For more info and tips on managing these see here. Before putting your eggs into an incubator, plug it in and make sure the temperature is steady. In a forced air incubator (with a fan) the temperature should be 99-99.5*F. In a still air incubator the temperature should be slightly higher, 101-102*F measured at the top of the eggs. I use a thermometer and a hygrometer (which measures humidity) in my incubator. Hygrometers can be purchased quite cheaply at a cigar shop, Radio Shack and I believe even Walmart. 
Perhaps the most important parameter is temperature – chicken eggs should be incubated at a temperature between 99 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (99.5 is often considered to be ideal) and 50 to 65 percent relative humidity (60 percent is often considered the ideal). Experts recommend that you set the temperature of your still-air incubator to 101 to 102 degrees to best avoid the formation of cold spots on the inside. Set forced-air incubators at the desired temperature because the moving air creates a more uniform temperature environment.
When hatching, the humidity is increased to 65% relative humidity or more. An excellent method to determine correct humidity is to candle the eggs at various stages of incubation. The normal size of the air cell after 7, 14, and 18 days of incubation for a chicken egg is shown. 
Temperature and Humidity This is plain and simple, yet the MOST important part of hatching. Still-air incubator (no fan): 38.5 degrees measured at the TOP of the eggs. Fan Forced incubator: 37.5 degrees measured anywhere in the incubator. Humidity: 40-50% during incubation, 50-65% for the last 3 days. You can sneak by with humidity numbers that aren't very accurate, but the combination of poor humidity and temperature will definitely cause problems at hatch time. If your temperature is not accurate you will DEFINITELY have problems at hatch time. The temperature inside the egg will be an average of this temperature swing in your incubator. Turning During the period of incubation your eggs will need to be turned. There are three main ways this is done, manually, semi-automatic, or fully automatic.
Incubating Eggs. Up until the last 2-3 days of incubation, eggs will require a constant temperature and humidity. They will also need to be turned a minimum of twice a day and preferably three or five times a day. During the last 2-3 days of incubation the eggs no longer need to be turned but they will require extra humidity. Each type of incubator will have suggestions as to how to increase the humidity at this time. Usually this involves closing air vents and adding more water to the incubator.
1 Temperature: Chicken eggs should be incubated at a temperature between 99 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit (99.5 is often considered to be ideal). 2  Avoid temperatures outside the 97–103 °F (36–39 °C). 3  range. 4  If the temperature remains beyond either extreme for several days, hatchability may be severely reduced. Chicken eggs have an incubation period of about 21 days and can be hatched using either a specialized incubator under carefully monitored conditions, or using a broody hen. Use these tips for hatching chicken eggs using both methods.
If the temperature remains beyond either extreme for several days, hatchability may be severely reduced. Humidity –The moisture level in the incubator should be about 50 to 55 percent relative humidity, with an increase to about 65 percent for the last 3 days of incubation. Hatching and brooding small numbers of chicks. An incubator is an enclosure having controlled temperature, humidity, and ventilation. The information in this extension folder is a guide for the general operation of a small, still-air incubator. Small incubators can be purchased, or you can make your own.