Gastroenteritis is an infection of the gut (intestines). The severity can range from a mild tummy upset for a day or two with mild diarrhoea, to severe diarrhoea and being sick (vomiting) for several days or longer. Many germs (viruses, bacteria and other microbes) can cause gastroenteritis.
Gastroenteritis ('gastro') is a bowel infection which causes diarrhoea (runny, watery poo) and sometimes vomiting. The vomiting may settle quickly, but the diarrhoea can last up to 10 days. Gastro can be caused by many different germs although the most common cause of gastro is a viral or bacterial infection.
For children with gastroenteritis, diarrhoea usually lasts for five to seven days and stops within two weeks, and vomiting usually lasts for one to two days, stopping within three days. If the symptoms continue for longer than this, see your GP.
The symptoms vary depending on the cause of the gastroenteritis, but abdominal cramps, diarrhea and/or vomiting are typical features. The abdominal pain is sometimes mild, but is sometimes severe enough to be confused with appendicitis.
Rotavirus is the leading cause of gastroenteritis among infants and young children. Rotavirus infections are most common in infants 3 to 15 months old. Symptoms usually appear 1 to 3 days after exposure. Rotavirus typically causes vomiting and watery diarrhea for 3 to 7 days, along with fever and abdominal pain.
Gastroenteritis is infection or inflammation of the bowel. The symptoms can include abdominal pain, churning, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, blood and mucus in stool, dehydration, fever, sweats, headache, muscle aches and pains and feeling generally unwell. Gastro can be caused by a range of organisms.
Depending on the cause, viral gastroenteritis symptoms may appear within one to three days after you're infected and can range from mild to severe. Symptoms usually last just a day or two, but occasionally they may persist as long as 10 days. Because the symptoms are similar, it's easy to confuse viral diarrhea with diarrhea caused by bacteria, such as Clostridium difficile, salmonella and E. coli, or parasites, such as giardia.
The main symptoms of viral gastroenteritis are watery diarrhea and vomiting. Other symptoms of gastroenteritis include headache, fever, chills, and abdominal pain. The symptoms may appear within hours or a few days of infection. They usually last for 1 to 2 days, but may last as long as 10 days.