This way once you set the variables values and change it in your configuration file-the connection string will change dynamically-this helps especially in moving from development to production environments. Thanks, Lekha.
Here's a walkthrough of setting up a configuration on a Connection Manager: SQL Server Integration Services SSIS Package Configuration-I do realize this is using an environment variable for the connection string (not a great idea), but the basics are identical to using an XML file.
You can run your package using DTEXEC, and change your connection by passing in a /CONNECTION parameter. Probably save it as a batch so next time you don't need to type the whole thing and just change the datasource as required. You can use the SSIS XML package configuration file. Here is a walk through.
2. Add the appropriate logic to the package to set the variable values to the desired values. This could be by using other configuration types to set the variables, by using a Script Task to set the values by reading from a non-SQL Server database, or by hard coding the values into the packages.
If you want to run your ssis package in BIDS(i.e in your development) you can change variable values in variable window according to your need then run the package. so now you can change your variables in variable window.
For example, you can use a variable in the evaluation expression of a For Loop container to control iteration. Populating parameter values for Transact-SQL statements at run time. For example, a package can run an Execute SQL task and then use variables to dynamically set the parameters in a Transact-SQL statement.
Loading variables with data values and then using them to specify a search condition in a WHERE clause. For example, the script in a Script task can update the value of a variable that is used by a Transact-SQL statement in an Execute SQL task.
That means in the OLEDB Connection Manager, the connection string should change dynamically. This connection string should be taken from a configuration/XML/flat file. I read that I can use variables and expressions to change the connection string
3. Add a new SSIS package to the project; right click SSIS Packages in the Solution Explorer, then select New SSIS Package from the popup menu. 4. Add the Connection Manager for the SQL Package Configuration database; right click in the Connection Managers area of the new package and select New OLE DB Connection. 5.