One of the most famous examples of this is, of course, Nineteen Eighty-Four by George Orwell and it is only apt that as we near the anniversary of his death, we re-evaluate what makes dystopian literature so important and why we still read it. 1. Dystopia isn’t science-fiction. Dystopian literature can show us our worst selves; the worst possible societies and the some of the worst facets of humanity. But it also forces us to value what is truly important, accept humanity’s flaws and inspires us to work towards a better society.
Whether you are a parent, grandparent or teacher, if you were reading what everyone was reading in the mid-to-late 20th century, then you no doubt became acquainted with dystopian fiction through many now-classic books. A difference between the mid-20th century dystopian novels written for adults and the ones teens are reading from the wealth of young adult fiction available today is the series element.
I feel it is just as important to discuss the real world as it is to have young people, even children, read about dystopian themes so they can become active in changing the world. I agree that reading these fantasy novels is a way to escape and to see heroic efforts to fight injustice, evil, greed, etc. This is an author’s perspective of their novel. And why they let their kids read dystopian novels. I do not know if the novel is any good, the reasoning is ok, even if it is unlikely global warming will make Earth average 115 degree days.
Definition of Dystopia, Dystopian fiction. In its most basic sense, you could say that dystopia is the opposite of utopia, referring to fictional societies that are incredibly imperfect, lacking the harmonious and egalitarian qualities of life depicted in utopias.
When I was a young adult in the 70s, I was required to read 1984, Brave New World, War of the Worlds. Those weren’t exactly YA books, but I read them when I was a YA. You are right, there is a lot of dystopian times in our history. We also read the Diary of Ann Frank and the Hiding Place by Corrie TenBoom. This is an author’s perspective of their novel. And why they let their kids read dystopian novels. I do not know if the novel is any good, the reasoning is ok, even if it is unlikely global warming will make Earth average 115 degree days.
One of the first dystopian novels to become famous was George Orwell’s 1984, which is still one of the top-selling dystopian novels today. Recently, there has been a rising popularity of dystopian novels. These novels have been transformed into popular movies that have made millions of dollars. 
War. Death. Despair. Oppression. Environmental ruin. Yup, when it comes to demoralizing literature, dystopian novels have it all! Yet many of us love this genre, and there are good reasons we do. There are even novels, such as The Shape of Things to Come, that mix dystopian and actual utopian elements. We admire the best dystopian novels because they're written well and depict people we can relate to.
We're not in the arena like the beleaguered tributes of The Hunger Games, the dystopian trilogy I recently finished. And, while dystopian novels are depressing, there's a certain rightness in reading about a future that's negative. Why? Because we know that politicians, military people and corporate moguls are capable of doing awful things -- meaning dystopian novels feel kind of honest. There are even novels, such as The Shape of Things to Come, that mix dystopian and actual utopian elements. We admire the best dystopian novels because they're written well and depict people we can relate to.
Posted on January 16, 2012 by deegarretson. Some of the most memorable books I read as a teen were dystopian and post-apocalyptic stories, what were categorized most often as adult science fiction back when I was reading them. If you are looking for some classic dystopian or apocalyptic books to read to see what came before the YA trend, here’s a list of a few possibilities.
1984 may be an example of a self-defeating prophecy. It was David Brin, one of the Hieroglyph authors, who first introduced me to the idea that a sufficiently powerful dystopia may influence society strongly enough to head off (or at least help head off) the world that it depicts. By Ramez Naam. George Orwell wasn’t right about where society was in 1984, but that may be, at least in small part, because of his book. Photo by Toby Melville/Reuters. This piece is part of Future Tense, a partnership of Slate, New America, and Arizona State University.