The Lipizzan breed suffered a setback to its population when a viral epidemic hit the Piber Stud in 1983. Forty horses and eight percent of the expected foal crop were lost. Since then, the population at the stud increased. By 1994 there were 100 mares at the stud with and a foal crop of 56 born in 1993. The Lipizzan International Federation (LIF) is the international governing organization for the breed, composed of many national and private organizations representing the Lipizzan. The organizations work together under the banner of the LIF to promote the breed and maintain standards.
They and Cleveland Bays are about the most rare breeds in this country. The Lipizzan (or Lipizzaner) History Lipizzans trace their history back to the early 1560's after the Moorish occupation of Spain. This breed is almost 450 years old, making it one of the oldest pure breeds in the world. Others are the Arabian and Andalusian form which the Lipizzan is derived. 
Owners and breeders are dedicated to the Lipizzan breed because they appreciate its rarity, cultural importance, romantic history, and its traits of intelligence, classic beauty, and harmonious, athletic way of moving. This page is available as a pdf file-click here to download pdf brochure. BREED EXPANSION. Until 1916, the Lipizzan studfarm always remained a private possession of the Hapsburg monarchy. Up to this time, the expansion of the breed had been affected over the centuries by military conflicts. Whenever warfare threatened the Lipizza stud, the horses were moved away.
LIPIZZAN HORSE DEVELOPMENT This is the most accurate account of the development of the Lipizzan horse as it was written by the world's authority, the Lipizzan International Federation. The Lipizzaner is the oldest of the European horse breeds and its documented origins trace back over 400 years. 
The Lipizzan horse is one of the oldest breeds of horses in Europe. The original breeding farm, Lipica, was created in the year 1580 in what was at that time part of the Austrian Empire (now in present times the country of Slovenia). The foundation for the Lipizzan breed were the horses from the Karst mountain regions. The present Lipizzan breeding farm in Italy is Monterotondo. After the first World War, half of the horses from Lipica were given to Austria and the remainder to Italy, in addition to all of the original stud books.
The Lipizzaner shares its ancestry with the Andalusian and Lusitano breeds. Like them, the Lipizzan breed is also descended from Spanish horses that were imported to Slovenia from the Iberian Peninsula in the late 1500's. The breed was founded by six Lipizzaner stallions from which all Lipizzaner horses are descended. The horse class the Lipizzan fits into is the 'other' class. Horse Backgrounds. The Lipizzaner is descended from Spanish horses that were imported to Slovenia from the Iberian Peninsula in the late 1500's, giving it a shared
The Lipizzan breed dates back to the 16th century, when it was developed with the support of the Habsburg nobility. The breed takes its name from one of the earliest stud farms established, located near the Karst Plateau village of Lipica (spelled Lipizza in Italian), in modern-day Slovenia. The Lipizzan International Federation (LIF) is the international governing organization for the breed, composed of many national and private organizations representing the Lipizzan. The organizations work together under the banner of the LIF to promote the breed and maintain standards.
All modern Lipizzans trace their bloodlines to these eight stallions, and all breeding stallions have included in their name the name of the foundation sire of their bloodline. There are also classic mare lines, with up to 35 recognized by various breed registries. The Lipizzan International Federation (LIF) is the international governing organization for the breed, composed of many national and private organizations representing the Lipizzan. The organizations work together under the banner of the LIF to promote the breed and maintain standards.
The rescue of the Lipizzans by the United States Army, made famous by the Disney movie Miracle of the White Stallions, occurred in two parts: The United States Third Army under the command of General George S. Patton, was near St. Martins in the spring of 1945 and learned that the Lipizzan stallions were in the area. The Lipizzan International Federation (LIF) is the international governing organization for the breed, composed of many national and private organizations representing the Lipizzan. The organizations work together under the banner of the LIF to promote the breed and maintain standards.
During World War II, the Lipizzan breed was again threatened with extinction when the mares and foals from Austria, Italy, and Yugoslavia were transferred to Hostau in Czechoslovakia by the German High Command. Through the heroic efforts of the Spanish Riding School’s director, Alois Podhajsky, the school was saved. BREED EXPANSION. Until 1916, the Lipizzan studfarm always remained a private possession of the Hapsburg monarchy. Up to this time, the expansion of the breed had been affected over the centuries by military conflicts. Whenever warfare threatened the Lipizza stud, the horses were moved away.