The eggs develop and hatch approxiamately 10 days later. While lice treatments effectively kill lice, they also kill some, but not all, of the eggs. This is why it is important to Treat when the eggs hatch on day 10. Nymphs: Once the louse hatches, it is called a nymph and is barely visible to the naked eye. The nymph cannot reproduce because it is not fully developed. After 12 days it becomes an adult. Adults: The adult louse can lay up to 4-10 eggs a day-starting another generation of lice. The adult stage lasts about 28 days. I am unfamiliar with the product you are using, but what I have found to be the best is a product made by RID
24 hours after mating, female head lice lays her eggs (nits) on the hair shaft about 1/4-inch away from the scalp, although they can be found anywhere on the scalp. Lice can live up to a month and can lay up to 10 eggs a day. An egg takes 7-10 days to hatch. A nymph is a baby louse. A nymph takes 7-10 days to mature into an adult louse. Only adults can lay eggs. The dark brown eggs are the newly laid eggs. Nymphs are transparent, except for a dark center
1 They are human parasites and can only survive on human blood. 2  A female louse can lay around 6 to 10 eggs (nits) per day. 3  The nits will hatch in about 7 to 10 days. 4  It takes the newly hatched louse another 7 to 10 days to mature and reproduce its own eggs. 5  Head lice usually live up to 30 days when on a host. Head lice begin their life cycle when a female louse lays an egg (nit) and attaches it to a hairshaft. Around 8 to 10 days after after the nit is laid, it will hatch and a newborn louse will emerge. A newly hatched louse is called a nymph. Nymphs undergo three molts before reaching the adult stage of their lives.
The adult female head louse lays her eggs (nits) at the base of the hair near the scalp. The eggs hatch in about 8 or 9 days. The newly hatched louse (nymph) will suck blood for food and shed its skin (molt) three times as it develops into an adult over a 10-day period. The young lice and adults live their entire lives on the head, feeding on blood. The entire life cycle takes about 3 weeks. Head lice live only about 30 to 40 days. They die in 1 or 2 days when removed from the head, and eggs die soon after being removed from the warm scalp. Head lice do not wander about rugs, furniture, or school buses seeking a host.
1 The nits will hatch in about 7 to 10 days. 2  It takes the newly hatched louse another 7 to 10 days to mature and reproduce its own eggs. 3  Head lice usually live up to 30 days when on a host. 4  Head lice do not carry or transmit diseases. Head lice begin their life cycle when a female louse lays an egg (nit) and attaches it to a hairshaft. Around 8 to 10 days after after the nit is laid, it will hatch and a newborn louse will emerge. A newly hatched louse is called a nymph. Nymphs undergo three molts before reaching the adult stage of their lives.
The eggs are glued to the hair shaft very close to the scalp. Head lice live only about 30 to 40 days. They die in 1 or 2 days when removed from the head, and eggs die soon after being removed from the warm scalp. Head lice do not wander about rugs, furniture, or school buses seeking a host.
1 Head lice cling to hairs but stay close to the scalp which they feed off. 2  Head lice lay eggs which hatch after 7-10 days. 3  It takes about 10 days for a newly hatched louse to grow into an adult and start to lay eggs. 4  Nits are the empty white eggshells which are left when the lice hatch. 1 They are about the size of a sesame seed (the seeds on burger buns). 2  Head lice cling to hairs but stay close to the scalp which they feed off. 3  Head lice lay eggs which hatch after 7-10 days. 4
1 Head lice lay eggs which hatch after 7-10 days. 2  It takes about 10 days for a newly hatched louse to grow into an adult and start to lay eggs. 3  Nits are the empty white eggshells which are left when the lice hatch. 4  Nits look like dandruff but stick strongly to hair. 1 They are about the size of a sesame seed (the seeds on burger buns). 2  Head lice cling to hairs but stay close to the scalp which they feed off. 3  Head lice lay eggs which hatch after 7-10 days. 4
Body Louse Pediculus humanus humanus L. Female lice lay 6-7 eggs per day and may lay a total of 50-300 eggs during their lives. Under normal conditions the eggs will hatch in 5-10 days, averaging seven days. The young lice that escape from the egg must feed within 24 hours or they will die. 