Additional considerations and costs. Total costs for a central air conditioning system will depend upon the size of the home, the number of windows, the quality of the insulation, and the tonnage and SEER rating of the unit selected for installation as well. Cost breakdown. For a central air conditioning installation, the basic points of payment include: 1  Contractor-this will be the individual who performs the manual J assessment of the home to determine the appropriate size for the unit(s).
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Air Conditioning! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Air Conditioning Installation project. For a basic 1 unit project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Air Conditioning ranges between $2,298.33 - $2,891.71 per unit. To estimate costs for your project: 1. 
Additional costs: 1  It typically takes a day or two to replace the heat source in an existing central heating system, and a week or more to install a new central heating system, depending on the size and layout of the house and the complexity of the system. 
Specifications. Perhaps the first step to determining the cost of replacing a central air conditioning unit is evaluating the specifications necessary for the size and dimensions of your home. Decide if your current unit adequately cools your entire home or if you require a larger unit
Installation Permits. The cost to install ducts and vents will include any repair that needs to be made if holes are cut in your walls or ceilings. If holes need to be cut, then the walls and ceilings will need to be patched and refinished. Size of Home. The layout of your home will also have a big impact of the cost. If there is space for new ductwork in your attic space or crawlspace, then the costs will be lower than If there are limited spaces for new ductwork or if your home's layout makes it challenging for installation.
Central Heating Cost Guide. A central heating system generates heat at a single location, such as a furnace room in a home, and then distributes the heat to the rest of the building, most commonly by use of forced-air through ductwork. Cost of Installation. As with most construction and home improvement projects, the cost of installing a central heating system can vary widely based on the type, size and condition of the building into which it is installed.
Central Air Average Costs. The actual cost of central air installation depends on a number of factors, including the size of the home as well as the unit’s tonnage and SEER rating. 1  In a 2,000 square foot home with existing ductwork, central air conditioning costs $3,000 to $5,000 installed. 