Description [edit]. The great egret is a large heron with all-white plumage. Standing up to 1 m (3.3 ft) tall, this species can measure 80 to 104 cm (31 to 41 in) in length and have a wingspan of 131 to 170 cm (52 to 67 in). The great egret feeds in shallow water or drier habitats, feeding mainly on fish, frogs, small mammals, and occasionally small reptiles and insects, spearing them with its long, sharp bill most of the time by standing still and allowing the prey to come within its striking distance of its bill which it uses as a spear.
Bird. The great egret is a member of the heron family. With a wingspread of 130 centimeters (55 inches), their wings are longer and wider than most other white herons. Great egrets do not eat at night. During the day, they forage alone or in mixed flocks, catching fish by standing motionless in the water. 
Diet. The Cattle Egret eats mainly insects, especially grasshoppers, and in some parts of the world, parasitic flies. An adaptable species, they have been known to eat nestling birds and eggs, and to scavenge in dumps. There have been only a few records of Cattle Egret's occurance in Washington during the breeding season, with records from Skagit and Pacific Counties in 1995 and Clark County in 1997. In 2002, two birds were seen at Burbank in Walla Walla County from mid-May to mid-June.
The great egret (Ardea alba), also known as the common egret, large egret or (in the Old World) great white heron, is a large, widely distributed egret. Distributed across most of the tropical and warmer temperate regions of the world, in southern Europe it is rather localized. The great egret feeds in shallow water or drier habitats, feeding mainly on fish, frogs, small mammals, and occasionally small reptiles and insects, spearing them with its long, sharp bill most of the time by standing still and allowing the prey to come within its striking distance of its bill which it uses as a spear.
The great egret is the symbol of the National Audubon Society and represents a conservation success story. The snowy white bird's beautiful plumage made it far too popular in 19th-century North America. Great egrets were decimated by plume hunters who supplied purveyors of the latest ladies' fashions. Great egrets are found near water, salt or fresh, and feed in wetlands, streams, ponds, tidal flats, and other areas. They snare prey by walking slowly or standing still for long periods, waiting for an animal to come within range of their long necks and blade-like bills.
What do they eat? Frogs, snakes, crayfish, fish, mice, crickets, aquatic insects, grasshoppers, and many other insects constitute the typical diet of a great egret. Other large wading birds have similar feeding habits and compete with great egrets for food resources. 
Fish are a dietary staple, but great egrets use similar techniques to eat amphibians, reptiles, mice, and other small animals. These birds nest in trees, near water and gather in groups called colonies, which may include other heron or egret species. Great egrets are found near water, salt or fresh, and feed in wetlands, streams, ponds, tidal flats, and other areas. They snare prey by walking slowly or standing still for long periods, waiting for an animal to come within range of their long necks and blade-like bills.
The Cattle Egret's feeding habitat is open country, where it is most often found associated with cattle (in North America). In other countries, it is found near a variety of large grazers. Breeding habitat is similar to that of other herons and egrets, in colonies near the water, often in a swamp or on an island. There have been only a few records of Cattle Egret's occurance in Washington during the breeding season, with records from Skagit and Pacific Counties in 1995 and Clark County in 1997. In 2002, two birds were seen at Burbank in Walla Walla County from mid-May to mid-June.
It is typically the largest white egret occurring anywhere in its range (only the white-colored form of the great blue heron is larger). Great egrets are found near water, salt or fresh, and feed in wetlands, streams, ponds, tidal flats, and other areas. They snare prey by walking slowly or standing still for long periods, waiting for an animal to come within range of their long necks and blade-like bills.
If you are raising baby ducks in a brooder, they eat a special mash with added protein that you can buy at any farm supply store. They also eat smashed corn, wet soft bread, m … ashed raw tomatoes and mashed boiled eggs. Ducklings eat rolled oats, worms, other insects and clover grass. And also little crabs and sea snails. And i have feed my duck tuna as well.