Cascade is an unincorporated community and U.S. Post Office in El Paso County, Colorado, United States. The ZIP Code of the Cascade Post Office is 80809. It was a resort town, with 3 hotels, from the 1880s to the 1920s. Tourists traveled through Ute Pass on the Colorado Midland Railway, experiencing scenic views of Cascade canon and its falls during their journey. Carriage tours brought tourists up Pikes Pike to its summit.
cas·cade. n. 1. A waterfall or a series of small waterfalls over steep rocks. 2. Something, such as lace, thought to resemble a waterfall or series of small waterfalls, especially an arrangement or fall of material. 3. A heavy, uncontrolled outpouring: a cascade of abusive comments. 4. 1. cascade-rush down in big quantities, like a cascade. cascade down. come down, descend, go down, fall-move downward and lower, but not necessarily all the way; The temperature is going down; The barometer is falling; The curtain fell on the diva; Her hand went up and then fell again.
There are five key conditions in an information cascade model: 1  There is a decision to be made — for example, whether to adopt a new technology, wear a new style of clothing, eat in a new restaurant, or support a particular political position. 2  A limited action space exists (e.g. an adopt/reject decision). While competing models exist, it is more often the problem that the concept of an information cascade is conflated with ideas which do not match the two key conditions of the model, such as social proof, information diffusion, and social influence.
A router cascade means that 2 or more routers are connected to each other through an Ethernet cable. There are 2 ways to cascade routers: connect an Ethernet port on the second router to an Ethernet port on the first, or connect the Internet port on the second router to an Ethernet port on the first. 4. Look for the local IP settings and reset the router's IP address from its default settings. The key here is to make sure that your secondary router has a different final digit than the IP address of your primary router. 1  An example IP for your primary router is 192.168.1.1
Make sure it is not plugged into your primary router. 3. Access your router's web-based configuration menu. Connect to the router's IP address with a web browser. 1  Depending on the make of your router, you may have to navigate to a specific URL to access your router's web-based configuration menu. 4. Look for the local IP settings and reset the router's IP address from its default settings. The key here is to make sure that your secondary router has a different final digit than the IP address of your primary router. 1  An example IP for your primary router is 192.168.1.1
: a small, steep waterfall; especially: one that is part of a series of waterfalls. : a large amount of something that flows or hangs down. : a large number of things that happen quickly in a series. Full Definition of CASCADE. intransitive verb. : to fall, pour, or rush in or as if in a cascade. transitive verb. 1. : to cause to fall like a cascade. 2. : to connect in a cascade arrangement.
1 You sometimes get a cascade effect where Britain is most expensive, then you have the Continent and then you get the United States, where prices are the cheapest. 2  Moreover, in contrast to adoptions, we did not find information cascades for abandonment. 1.1 Fall or hang in copious quantities: blonde hair cascaded down her back. More example sentences. 1  She let her head hang down and her velvet, ebony hair cascaded down her shoulders. 2  I let it down into loose curls that cascaded down my back and hung in all the right places.
More example sentences. 1  You sometimes get a cascade effect where Britain is most expensive, then you have the Continent and then you get the United States, where prices are the cheapest. 1.1 Fall or hang in copious quantities: blonde hair cascaded down her back. More example sentences. 1  She let her head hang down and her velvet, ebony hair cascaded down her shoulders. 2  I let it down into loose curls that cascaded down my back and hung in all the right places.
Full Definition of CASCADE. 1. : a steep usually small fall of water; especially: one of a series. 2. b: a fall of material (as lace) that hangs in a zigzag line. 3. See cascade defined for English-language learners. See cascade defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Full Definition of CASCADE. intransitive verb. : to fall, pour, or rush in or as if in a cascade. transitive verb. 1. : to cause to fall like a cascade. 2. : to connect in a cascade arrangement.