A safe level of radon gas is no radon gas. Radon gas is a carcinogen which causes lung cancer. The US EPA has put it plainly, stating, Any radon exposure has some risk of causing lung cancer. The lower the radon level in your home, the lower your family's risk of lung cancer..
Your home should be tested after a mitigation system has been installed to insure that radon levels have been reduced. This test should be conducted no sooner than 24 hours nor later than 30 days following completion and activation of the mitigation system(s).
According to the EPA, the average indoor radon level is about 1.3 picocuries per liter (pCi/L). People should take action to lower radon levels in the home if the level is 4.0 pCi/L or higher. The EPA estimates that nearly 1 out of every 15 homes in the United States has elevated radon levels. Outdoors, radon generally disperses and does not reach high levels.
You have tested your home for radon and confirmed that you have elevated radon levels — 4 picocuries per liter (pCi/L) or higher. The EPA recommends that you take action to reduce your home's radon levels if your radon test result is 4 pCi/L or higher. High radon levels can be reduced through mitigation. CLICK HERE to order a test kit. 1  Select a licensed or certified radon mitigation contractor to reduce the radon levels.
Radon gas is a naturally-occurring byproduct of the radioactive decay of Uranium in the soil. Depending on your geographic location, the radon levels of the air you breathe outside of your home may be as high as 0.75 pCi/L.
Test for radon in each of the lowest structural areas of the home. If your house has one or more foundation types, a test should be placed in or above each area. For example, if a home has a basement, test in the basement if anyone spends at least 7 hours a week in the basement.
One out of 15 (6%) homes nationally may have elevated indoor radon levels that should be lower. The percentage of elevated homes in your state may be much higher. The only way to know a house is elevated is to test.
Red areas (zone 1) in the map can be expected to encounter radon levels over the 4 pCi/L recommended level. Orange areas (zone 2) typically have between 2 and 4 pCi/L and should be tested.