Bloating or fullness, Diarrhea, Distended stomach and Pain or discomfort. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms bloating or fullness, diarrhea, distended stomach and pain or discomfort including Irritable bowel syndrome, Gastroenteritis, and Gas pains. 
Here are three common causes of bloating, and how you can avoid them. 1  Overeating is probably the most common cause of bloating. 2  Eating rich and fatty food can make you feel uncomfortably stuffed. 3  Eating too fast adds to the risk of bloating after a meal. Keep Bloating at Bay. Here are three common causes of bloating, and how you can avoid them. 1  Overeating is probably the most common cause of bloating. 2  Smaller portions should ease the pain. 3
Bloating and gas is usually relieved by moving the bowels or just passing some gas. If this condition does not go away on its own, there are many treatments that can help relieve chronic bloating. Learn about possible causes of chronic bloating and how you can combat it with home remedies. When someone has lactose intolerance they experience symptoms like; abdominal bloating, cramping, gas, diarrhea and nausea. These symptoms usually appear as little as 30 minutes or up to 2 hours after eating milk products. You need to see a doctor if this condition becomes worrisome or if it affects a small child.
Many HIV medications are a common cause of diarrhea, gas and bloating. However, they can also have causes unrelated to HIV disease, such as functional bowel disease (irritable bowel syndrome and inflammatory bowel disease), lactose intolerance or gluten sensitivity. When the causes of diarrhea, gas and bloating cannot be entirely eliminated, an over-the-counter anti-diarrheal agent, such as Imodium (loperamide), Kaopectate or Pepto-Bismol, may help relieve symptoms. Check with your pharmacist and doctor to ensure they will not interfere with any other medications you are taking
1 Dairy products can be a source of intestinal distress and bloating if you have trouble digesting lactose, or milk sugar. 2  Whole grains, recommended for their many health benefits, can sometimes cause bloating and gas problems. 3  One reason whole grains are so healthy is their high fiber content. Keep Bloating at Bay. Here are three common causes of bloating, and how you can avoid them. 1  Overeating is probably the most common cause of bloating. 2  Smaller portions should ease the pain. 3  Eating rich and fatty food can make you feel uncomfortably stuffed.
Many of the causes of gas and bloating are similar to those that cause diarrhea. Diarrhea, gas and bloating can cause pain and embarrassment, particularly when their timing is unpredictable. They can make people unwilling to leave home because they don't want to risk a humiliating incident in public. When the causes of diarrhea, gas and bloating cannot be entirely eliminated, an over-the-counter anti-diarrheal agent, such as Imodium (loperamide), Kaopectate or Pepto-Bismol, may help relieve symptoms. Check with your pharmacist and doctor to ensure they will not interfere with any other medications you are taking
The symptoms of bloating can be vague and difficult to pinpoint, but most people describe an uncomfortable feeling of fullness, tightness, or swelling in the abdomen. This can be accompanied by pain, excessive gas (flatulence), frequent burping or belching, and abdominal rumbling or gurgles. Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic condition that affects the large intestine and causes many uncomfortable symptoms, such as bloating, gas, cramping, diarrhea, constipation, and pain.
Some of the most common causes of bloating and diarrhea include gastrointestinal illnesses caused by viruses, bacteria, and parasites. A person may also become bloated and suffer from diarrhea because he has a long-term condition, such as irritable bowel syndrome or Chrohn's disease. Dairy products like cheese can cause bloating and diarrhea a lactose-intolerant person. Certain medications may cause diarrhea and bloating. Drinking water can help with bloating. Oak bark supplements can be used to treat diarrhea. Bananas can help bulk up stool in those with diarrhea. Bloating and diarrhea can occur as the result of a long-term condition. Yogurt with live cultures can rebuild intestinal flora after diarrhea. Eating lots of salt can cause bloating