Under the direction of a physician or other licensed health care professional, phlebotomists duties includes collecting samples of blood and other fluids from patients. Prior to collection, it is the phlebotomist’s responsibility to assure that all collection instruments and environments are sterile and of first use. Additional Phlebotomists Duties. Some phlebotomists duties, for example those that conduct home care visits, will also include being responsible for transportation of fluid samples between the sample site and the laboratory.
Phlebotomist Job Duties: 1  Verifies test requisitions by comparing information with nursing station log; bringing discrepancies to the attention of unit personnel. 2  Verifies patient by reading patient identification. 3  Obtains blood specimens by performing venipunctures and fingersticks. Phlebotomist Job Description. This phlebotomist sample job description can assist in your creating a job application that will attract job candidates who are qualified for the job. Feel free to revise this job description to meet your specific job duties and job requirements.
Phlebotomist Duties. Before becoming a phlebotomist, it’s essential that you understand all of the duties that are involved in this occupation. Phlebotomy certification may not be for everyone, though some people may be attracted to this job by the relatively short certification time. Collection of Blood Samples. To collect a blood sample from a patient, a phlebotomist needs to first find a suitable vein to puncture with the needle. In most cases, a phlebotomist will choose to use the median cubital vein. This vein is located on the inner side of the forearm, just inside the fold of the elbow.
Phlebotomist Job Description. Phlebotomy technicians, or simply phlebotomists, are professionals who draw blood from patients. They take these blood samples to pass to laboratory and further check for health issues, like diseases, bacteria, cholesterol, etc. All You Need to Know. Phlebotomy technicians, or simply phlebotomists, are professionals who draw blood from patients. They take these blood samples to pass to laboratory and further check for health issues, like diseases, bacteria, cholesterol, etc.
A phlebotomist assists other medical workers by focusing entirely on the collection of blood, tissue, and fluid samples. The duties of a phlebotomist can be divided into four general functions: 1  Prepares and maintains necessary equipment and supplies. 2  Performs venipuncture, arterial puncture, capillary puncture, and other fluid collection. 3  procedures on patients, and ensures specimens are appropriately labeled and identified. Search Related. In general terms, a phlebotomist is a health care worker who is responsible for performing venipuncture on patients in a medical environment such as a hospital, lab, or doctor’s office.
Phlebotomists are responsible for a number of important duties in a hospital, each of which ensure that they are able to efficiently and correctly collect blood samples of patients. Here is a guide to some of the general duties expected of most phlebotomists employed by a hospital. Collection of Blood Samples. To collect a blood sample from a patient, a phlebotomist needs to first find a suitable vein to puncture with the needle. In most cases, a phlebotomist will choose to use the median cubital vein. This vein is located on the inner side of the forearm, just inside the fold of the elbow.