Reticular connective tissue is supportive tissue making up the framework of glands, organs, and lymph nodes. Special stains are usually required to see the fine, branching collagen fibers making up reticular connective tissues. Shock absorption is a second key attribute of adipose and areolar connective tissues. Around organs such as the kidneys loose connective tissue types act as vibration dampening suppor
Numerous cell types are found in connective tissue. Three of the most common are the fibroblast, macrophage, and mast cell. The types of connective tissue include loose connective tissue, adipose tissue, dense fibrous connective tissue, elastic connective tissue, cartilage, osseous tissue (bone), and blood. 
Three types of loose connective tissue are recognized. These include areolar, adipose, and reticular types. Areolar and adipose are the most abundant types and these are typically found together in most body locales where blood vessels, nerves, ducts, and other structures are passing through tissues. Shock absorption is a second key attribute of adipose and areolar connective tissues. Around organs such as the kidneys loose connective tissue types act as vibration dampening suppor
Blood is regarded as a modified liquid connective tissue because: 1. The cellular elements in it are separated by a considerable amount of liquid intracellular substance cal … led plasma. The cellular elements float freely in the plasma. Blood can be defined as the universal internal environment of the vertebrate body. 
Interestingly enough, blood is considered to be a type of connective tissue. Even though it has a different function in comparison to other connective tissues it does have an extracellular matrix. The matrix consists of the plasma, while red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended in the plasma. Lymph. Lymph is another type of fluid connective tissue. This clear fluid originates from blood plasma that exits blood vessels at capillary beds.
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water
Connective Tissue A really diverse group of tissues: Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue. A really diverse group of tissues.
Answers. Best Answer: Lymph is a fluid in the body, not a connective tissue. EDIT: Just a response to the other post. Actually, blood, bone, and cartilage ARE types of connective tissue. They are referred to as specialized connective tissue. Skin is dense connective tissue. The only one that is not in your list is lymph.
Blood is considered a connective tissue for two basic reasons: (1) embryologically, it has the same origin (mesodermal) as do the other connective tissue types and (2) blood connects the body systems together bringing the needed oxygen, nutrients, hormones and other signaling molecules, and removing the wastes. 