05.29 Here is more detail on the tsunami advisory for Hawaii from Reuters: A tsunami advisory has been issued for Hawaii due to a magnitude 8.2 earthquake that struck on Tuesday off the coast of Chile, but no major damage is expected. Based on all available data, a major tsunami is not expected to strike the state of Hawaii, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said in a statement. 
From Lander and Lockridge, 1989, Tsunami in Hawaii A magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia. It was recorded at San Diego and San Francisco.. Share this page: 1  Facebook. Then a sudden flood tide reached a considerable height.. A magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia.
Along Faults. Earthquakes can also occur far from the edges of plates, along faults. Faults are cracks in the earth where sections of a plate (or two plates) are moving in different directions. Faults are caused by all that bumping and sliding the plates do. They are more common near the edges of the plates.
A catastrophic magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador and Colombia generated a strong tsunami that killed 500 to 1500 there. It was observed all along the coast of Central America and as far north as San Francisco and west to Japan.....The wave arrived in Hilo at about 12.5 hours after the earthquake. Then a sudden flood tide reached a considerable height.. A magnitude 8.2 earthquake off the coast of Ecuador produced a 5-m local tsunami that destroyed 49 houses and killed 500 people in Colombia. It was recorded at San Diego and San Francisco.. Share this page: 1  Facebook
Up-and-down motions in earthquakes occur over so-called  dip-slip  faults, where the ground above the fault zone either drops (a normal fault) or is pushed up (a reverse fault). A normal fault occurs where the deeper part of the crust is pulling away from an overlying part. 
The 1906 Ecuador–Colombia earthquake occurred at 15:36 UTC on January 31, off the coast of Ecuador, near Esmeraldas. The earthquake had a moment magnitude of 8.8 and triggered a destructive tsunami that caused at least 500 casualties on the coast of Colombia. Because the sequence of three earthquakes that ended in 1979 did not release as much energy as the 1906 event, it has been suggested that an earthquake of similar magnitude to that in 1906 was likely in the near future.
Earthquakes that affect Ecuador can be divided into those that result from movement on the subduction interface along the plate boundary, those that result from deformation within the South American and Nazca Plates and those that are associated with active volcanoes. Earthquakes within the downgoing Nazca Plate, such as the M w 7.1 event of August 2010, are generally too deep to cause significant damage in Ecuador although they are felt over a wide area.
Ecuador is a land of volcanoes and geological faults so Ecuador does have earthquakes. Here is an excerpt from a full report just emailed to our Ecuador Living subscribers. The recent earthquake in Haiti sent many readers scuttling to their keyboards so they could ask about earthquakes in Ecuador. An article at History.com entitled “ Earthquake destroys landmarks in Quito ” provides more details: Quito, Ecuador, the site of many powerful earthquakes through the years, suffers one of its worst when a tremor kills 5,000 people and destroys some of the most famous buildings in South America, on this day in 1859.
Earthquakes in Pennsylvania. Pennsylvania experiences a relatively low level of earthquake activity compared to active states such as Alaska and California. Not only do earthquakes occur in our Commonwealth, but parts or all of Pennsylvania has been subject to the effects of earthquakes located outside our borders. 