Phlegm is the thick, sticky mucus that drips down the back of your throat when you have a cold. Although drinking milk may make phlegm thicker and more irritating to your throat than it would normally be, milk doesn't cause your body to make more phlegm. 
A cold or an allergy sets mucus production out of whack.. An increase in mucus and its thickness is the way your nose and sinuses respond to the presence of an irritant, whether it's an invading virus, bacteria, or allergen. Visit the ABCNews.com OnCall+ Cold & Flu Center. 1  10 Germy Surfaces. 2  Cold and Flu Myths. 3  Best Ways to Avoid the Flu. 
Phlegm is a mucus-like substance produced by the lower airways, such as the lungs and the respiratory system leading to the lungs, not by the nose and sinuses, which produce the mucus that streams out of or clogs up your nose. You may not notice phlegm unless you cough it up as a symptom of bronchitis or pneumonia. Here are some of the mucus problems Ellis sees and his recommended treatments: 1  Post-nasal drip (thick mucus). 2  Take an expectorant (this thins mucus and phlegm), drink lots of fluids, breathe through a warm washcloth, and use steam to make the mucus more liquid. 3  Congestion (blocked nose).
1 Post-nasal drip (thick mucus). 2  Take an expectorant (this thins mucus and phlegm), drink lots of fluids, breathe through a warm washcloth, and use steam to make the mucus more liquid. 3  Congestion (blocked nose). 4  This is mostly due to swollen nasal membranes, so shrinking those membranes is the goal. Here are some of the mucus problems Ellis sees and his recommended treatments: 1 
In vertebrates, mucus (/mjuːkəs/ MYOO-kəss; adjectival form : mucous) is a slippery secretion produced by, and covering, mucous membranes. Mucous fluid is typically produced from cells found in mucous glands. 
Mucus also acts as a sort of flypaper, trapping unwanted substances like bacteria and dust before they can get into the body -- particularly the sensitive airways. You want to keep that environment, which is a sterile environment, free of gunk, says Johns. Mucus is kind of sticky and thick. Even when you're healthy, your body is a mucus-making machine, churning out about 1 to 1.5 liters of the stuff every day.
A type of paranasal sinus (a hollow space in the bones around the nose). There are two, large frontal sinuses in the frontal bone, which forms the lower part of the forehead and reaches over the eye sockets and eyebrows. The frontal sinuses are lined with cells that make mucus to keep the nose from drying out. 
You probably only notice your mucus when you're sick. But there's more to mucus than what you feel when you have a cold or the flu. Mucus helps keep you healthy. Your nose and throat glands make up to 2 quarts of it every day. It's a moist film that helps keeps your nose from drying out. Mucus also helps shield your lungs from dust, bacteria, exhaust fumes, cigarette smoke, viruses, and other intruders. 
Most sinus infections are viral. Green mucus is usually thicker than yellow mucus, thus it tends to create sinus congestion, and sinus pressure. When that happens sinus pain, also called sinus headache, may also appear. Phlegm accompanies a sinus infection to help the immune system cope with the infection overload.
In humans mucus is produced by mucous cells found in glands which produce a substance rich in glycoproteins and water. Mucus protects the epithelial cells which are part of the membranes lining the respiratory organs: nasal and sinus cavities, lungs, bronchi, etc. 