A truly immense wetland system The Pantanal is an immense alluvial plain which is situated along the northernmost part of the Paraguay River and its tributaries and which becomes extensively flooded during the rainy season. The Pantanal is contained within the Upper Paraguay River Basin. A truly immense wetland system. The Pantanal is an immense alluvial plain which is situated along the northernmost part of the Paraguay River and its tributaries and which becomes extensively flooded during the rainy season.
IntroductionThe Pantanal of South America is one of the most immense, pristine and biologically rich environments on the planet. Often referred to as the world s largest freshwater wetland system, it extends through millions of hectares of central-western Brazil, eastern Bolivia and eastern Paraguay. 
The name Pantanal comes from the Portuguese word pantano, pântano meaning, wetland, bog, swamp quagmire or. Marsh by, comparison The brazilian highlands are locally referred to as the, planalto plateau, or, literally high. plain Elevation of the Pantanal ranges from 80 to 150 m (260 to 490 ft) above sea level. Annual rainfall over the flood basin is between 1,000 and 1,500 mm (39 and 59 in), with most rainfall occurring between November and March.
References. Pantanal book. The Pantanal of South America is one of the most immense, pristine and biologically rich environments on the planet. Often referred to as the world s largest freshwater wetland system, it extends through millions of hectares of central-western Brazil, eastern Bolivia and eastern Paraguay.
The Pantanal is considered by many to be the world’s largest, freshwater, wetland system. An immense alluvial plain, the Pantanal is situated along the northernmost part of the Paraguay River and its tributaries and becomes extensively flooded during the rainy season. It extends through millions of hectares of central-western Brazil, eastern Bolivia, and northeastern Paraguay in central South America. An estimated 80 percent of the Pantanal is located in central-western Brazil, in the two states of Mato Grosso and Mato Grosso do Sul. Another roughly 10-15 percent of the Pantanal extends into eastern Bolivia, and the remaining, smallest portion is located in eastern Paraguay.
With all of the outstanding destinations that Brazil has to offer, one that really surprises is the Pantanal. The Pantanal is far from Brazil's eastern coastline, located in the center of South America and far western Brazil. 
The Pantanal. With a total area of almost 195 000 square kilometres (or 75 000 square miles), the Pantanal is the largest wetland in the world. The vast majority of it is in the state of Mato Grosso do Sul, but it also extends into Mato Grosso and the separate countries of Paraguay and Bolivia, which neighbour Brazil. As such a vast tropical wetland, the Pantanal is a very precious resource of Brazil, home to an array of plant-and animal species. In fact, up to 12 sub-regional ecosystems have been identified within the Pantanal, each of which has its own unique identity and characteristics. Pantanal wetlands during the dry season. A plethora of animal species can be found in the Pantanal. There is estimated to be about 1 000 bird species, 300 mammals and 9 000 invertebrates, in addition to countless fascinating insects and other species. Some of the very rare and / or endangered animal species include:
The Pantanal is a region in South America lying mostly in Western Brazil but extending into Bolivia as well. It is considered one of the world's largest and most diverse freshwater wetland ecosystems. The Pantanal is also one of Brazil's major tourist draws, for its wildlife. 