Making the world better, one answer at a time. The two domains that comprise prokaryotes are archaea and bacteria. Both groups are unicellular microorganisms that evolved independently from an ancient common ancestor. 
Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes. The six kingdoms of living things are divided into two major groups, Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes. There are two prokaryote kingdoms and four eukaryote kingdoms. There are huge fundamental differences between the ways these two groups go about living. Here is just the briefest of distinctions. Eukaryotes have a separate membrane bound nucleus, numerous mitochondria and other organelles such as the Golgi Body within each of their cells. These areas are separated off from the main mass of the cell's cytoplasm by their own membrane in order to allow them to be more specialised.
Although the term bacteria traditionally included all prokaryotes, the scientific classification changed after the discovery in the 1990s that prokaryotic life consists of two very different groups of organisms that evolved independently from an ancient common ancestor. Archaea were originally described in extreme environments, but have since been found in all habitats and may contribute up to 20% of total biomass. These cells are particularly common in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet.
In 1977, Carl Woese proposed dividing prokaryotes into the Bacteria and Archaea (originally Eubacteria and Archaebacteria) because of the major differences in the structure and genetics between the two groups of organisms. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria.
The word prokaryote comes from the Greek πρό- (pro -) before and καρυόν (karyon)  nut or kernel . Prokaryotes can be divided into two domains, Archaea and Bacteria, with the remainder of species, called eukaryotes, in the third domain Eukaryota. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria.
1 1. 2  Two types of cells: Prokaryote Cells And Eukaryote Cells. 3  2. 4  3. 5  4. Cells come in all shapes and sizes! 6  5. 7  6. 8  These are two distinct types of cells with STRUCTURAL differences. 9  Prokaryotes Bacteria Eukaryotes Animal Plant. 10  8. 
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. Distinctive types of prokaryotes include extremophiles and methanogens; these are common in some extreme environments. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes. This is one of many pieces of evidence that mitochondria and chloroplasts are themselves descended from free-living bacteria.
The Archaea are a group of prokaryotic, single-celled microorganisms. In this they are similar to bacteria but these two groups evolved differently, and are classified as different domains in the three-domain system. Originally these organisms were named archaebacteria. Archaea were originally described in extreme environments, but have since been found in all habitats and may contribute up to 20% of total biomass. These cells are particularly common in the oceans, and the archaea in plankton may be one of the most abundant groups of organisms on the planet.
Prokaryotes are organisms whose cells lack a nucleus and other organelles. Prokaryotes are divided into two distinct groups: the bacteria and the archaea, which scientists believe have unique evolutionary lineages. Most prokaryotes are small, single-celled organisms that have a relatively simple structure.