The two genes that produce red and green light-sensitive proteins are located on the X chromosome. Mutations in these genes can cause color blindness. Color blindness is a common inherited sex-linked disorder that affects a person's ability to see or recognize certain colors. Eight to ten percent of all males and one half of a percent of all females are color-blind.
The Y chromosome does not cause color blindness. Colorblindness is a defective gene on the X chromosome. Females have 2 x chromosomes, thus one can serve as a backup for a defective gene. However, the Y chromosome in males is almost totally defective, thus does not have a backup.
Color vision deficiency (sometimes called color blindness) represents a group of conditions that affect the perception of color. Red-green color vision defects are the most common form of color vision deficiency. Affected individuals have trouble distinguishing between some shades of red, yellow, and green. Red-green color vision defects and blue cone monochromacy are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The OPN1LW and OPN1MW genes are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes. In males (who have only one X chromosome), one genetic change in each cell is sufficient to cause the conditio
The gene affects color blindness, not the other way around. It is sex linked and recessive, males that are color blind have only one gene on the X chromosome, the Y chromosome is missing the like gene. A recessive gene on the X chromosome causes men to be color blind, a recessive gene on both the X and Y chromosomes causes females to be colorblind. This makes more men colorblind than women. And it is sex linked in that the woman contributes the X chromosome to the offspring. At least that is the way I remember it. Colorblindness is a defective gene on the X chromosome. Females have 2 x chromosomes, thus one can serve as a backup for a defective gene. However, the Y chromosome in males is almost totally defective, thus does not have a backup.
In females, if one X chromosome is defective, the normal one will protect the woman from being color blind. Females who have a defective gene are carriers, their sons have a 50% chance of being color blind, and their daughters have a 50% chance of becoming a carrier. Color Blindness from Gene Mutations. Inherited color blindness is usually the result of receiving a genetically mutated gene on the X chromosome; however research has shown that mutations that can lead to color blindness originate from in excess of 19 different chromosomes and many different genes.
It's a sex linked mutation and occurs only on the X chromosome. Males are much more likely to be color blind than females, because it is linked only to the x chromosome. Males only have one x chromosome and females have two. For females to have the colorblind mutation, their father has to be colorblind and their mother has to be a carrier or colorblind. Red-green color blindness is a sex-linked trait. The receptors of red and green color are found on the X chromosome; therefore, men are more likely to be red-green color blind … since they only have one.   Blue-yellow color blindness is found on chromosome 7, and is equally distributed between men and women
Many of the genes involved in color vision are on the X chromosome, making color blindness much more common in males than in females because males only have one X chromosome, while females have two. Color blindness, or color vision deficiency, is the inability or decreased ability to see color, or perceive color differences, under normal lighting conditions. Color blindness affects a significant percentage of the population.