Myxomatous is the adjective form of the word myxoma. It refers to the formation of a mass of cells in connective tissue. Myxoma is usually found in the mitral valve of the heart, which is located in the left ventricle. Myxomatous degeneration is a phrase used to describe the breaking down of this connective tissue. It can also refer to the development of lesions that resemble myxoma. Another term often used when talking about Myxomatous is mitral valve prolapse
Print. Mitral valve regurgitation — also called mitral regurgitation, mitral insufficiency or mitral incompetence — is a condition in which your heart's mitral valve doesn't close tightly, allowing blood to flow backward in your heart. 
Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a billowing of mitral valve leaflets into the left atrium during systole. The most common cause is idiopathic myxomatous degeneration. MVP is usually benign, but complications include mitral regurgitation, endocarditis, chordal rupture, and possibly thromboembolism. Key Points. MVP is most often caused by idiopathic myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve and chordae tendineae. Mitral regurgitation (MR) is the most common complication. Heart sounds often include a sharp, mid-systolic click that occurs earlier with the Valsalva maneuver.
Mitral valve prolapse is a condition in which the two valve flaps of the mitral valve do not close smoothly or evenly. Mitral valve prolapse is also known as click-murmur syndrome, Barlow's syndrome or floppy valve syndrome. Symptoms, which in some cases may be related to leaking of the mitral valve, can include: 1  Chest pain (not caused by coronary artery disease or a heart attack). 2  Dizziness. 3  Fatigue. 4  Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations). 5  Shortness of breath with activity or when lying flat (orthopnea).
mitral valve prolapse (MVP) a condition in which some portion of the mitral valve is pushed back into the left atrium during ventricular contraction. For reasons not fully understood (there is no evident disease process) there is redundant tissue on one or both leaflets of the valve. Mitral valve prolapse occurs when the mitral valve does not open and close properly. When this happens, the valve may balloon into the left atrium of the heart, causing the mitral valve to leak blood backward.
Etiology. MVP is most often caused by. Myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve leaflets and chordae tendineae. In myxomatous degeneration, the fibrous collagen layer of the valve thins and mucoid (myxomatous) material accumulates. Key Points. MVP is most often caused by idiopathic myxomatous degeneration of the mitral valve and chordae tendineae. Mitral regurgitation (MR) is the most common complication. Heart sounds often include a sharp, mid-systolic click that occurs earlier with the Valsalva maneuver.
Myxomatous degeneration refers to a pathological weakening of connective tissue. The term is most often used in the context of mitral valve prolapse, which is known more technically as myxomatous mitral valve degeneration.. The degeneration occurs in conjunction with an accumulation of dermatan sulfate, a glycosaminoglycan, within the connective tissue matrix of the valve. In many cases, the degeneration is limited to the mitral valve and follows a benign course. When associated with systemic diseases, like Marfan syndrome, the degeneration is more extensive and involves other heart valves. The valves can become sufficiently distorted to cause insufficiency and regurgitation.
Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) is a condition in which the heart 's mitral valve doesn't work well. The flaps of the valve are floppy and don't close tightly. These flaps normally help seal or open the valve. About Mitral Valve Prolapse (MVP). Mitral (MI-tral) valve prolapse (MVP) is a condition in which the heart 's mitral valve doesn't work well. The flaps of the valve are floppy and don't close tightly. These flaps normally help seal or open the valve. Much of the time, MVP doesn't cause any problems
Myxomatous degeneration, medically speaking, is the deterioration of connective tissue within the body, usually of the heart’s valves, particularly the mitral valve. 