1 Of the land area, 16.9% has a semi-arid/ steppe climate (BS), 2.2% has a temperate/ mesothermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Cf), 48.2% has a temperate/ mesothermal climate with dry summers (Cs), 32.7% has a alpine/ highland climate (H). 
Istanbul enjoys nine hours of sunlight each day in September and the average temperature in Istanbul in autumn is 16 to 23°C (61 to 73°F). The average amount of rainfall in Istanbul begins to pick up during September but this generally only amounts to seven days of rain throughout the month. However, September is the end of the summer period and some parts of the country can get quite chilly in September. The average temperature in Ankara in September is between 8 and 23°C (46 to 73°F).
Because of Turkey's geographical conditions, one can not speak about a general overall climate. In Istanbul and around the sea of Marmara (Marmara region) the climate is moderate (winter 4 deg.C and summer 27 deg.C); in winter the temperature can drop below zero. In Western Anatolia (Aegean region) there is a mild Mediterranean climate with average temperatures of 9 deg.C in winter and 29 deg.C in summer. On the southern coast of Anatolia (Mediterranean region) the same climate can be found. The average temperature is 23 deg.C in summer and -2 deg.C in winter. The climate in the Black Sea area (Black Sea region) is wet, warm and humid (summer 23 deg.C, winter 7 deg.C).
Rainfall in the region averages 645mm per year and the temperatures can range from an absolute minimum of -8 degrees to a sweltering maximum of 43 degrees Celsius. on average sees 1 to 2 weeks of snowfall throughout winter, with the snowfall often being quite heavy on about 5 -7 days. The coldest temperature ever recorded in. and Izmit was -8 degrees (1960) but record lows of -16 have been recorded in the past in parts of the region.
The Turkey climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine.
Generally as you head further east the weather cools down, but snowfall is now low throughout the region. on average sees 1 to 2 weeks of snowfall throughout winter, with the snowfall often being quite heavy on about 5 -7 days. The coldest temperature ever recorded in. and Izmit was -8 degrees (1960) but record lows of -16 have been recorded in the past in parts of the region.
The region as a whole averages 781mm of annual rainfall, and is generally humid and cloudy a lot of the time. Because of the year round rainfall the area is rich and fruitful, which makes for lush grass which feeds cattle to produce some of. 's best milk, cream and milk. on average sees 1 to 2 weeks of snowfall throughout winter, with the snowfall often being quite heavy on about 5 -7 days. The coldest temperature ever recorded in. and Izmit was -8 degrees (1960) but record lows of -16 have been recorded in the past in parts of the region.
Climate in Turkey in September. Most of Turkey enjoys a pleasantly mild climate throughout September. However, September is the end of the summer period and some parts of the country can get quite chilly in September. The average temperature in Ankara in September is between 8 and 23°C (46 to 73°F).
As such is bustling and vibrant at this time of year. The average daily temperature in Antalya in August is 27 degrees Celsius. This estimated temperature includes a potential low of 21 degrees Celsius and a high of up to 33 degrees Celsius. This range of temperatures means that you are recommended to pack layers to anticipate shifts in warmth. The Mediterranean Sea warms up even more to 28 degrees Celsius in August, the warmest it will be all year long. On land, you can plan on 11 hours of sunshine on any given day. Meanwhile, the region only sees ten millimetres of precipitation throughout the month.
Season and Climate in Turkey Turkey is a year-round destination depending on your itinerary. Although the tourist high season (with associated higher rates) is from mid-June through mid-September, Spring and Fall are the best seasons to travel. The sun is warm and skies are generally clear. The average temperature is 23 deg.C in summer and -2 deg.C in winter. The climate in the Black Sea area (Black Sea region) is wet, warm and humid (summer 23 deg.C, winter 7 deg.C).