Superior vena cava syndrome is caused by the partial blockage of the superior vena cava, which is the vein that carries blood from the head, neck, chest, and arms to the heart. The superior vena cava returns blood from the upper body to the heart, and the inferior vena cava returns the blood from the lower part of the body. The superior vena cava is thin-walled, and the blood is under low pressure. It lies near lymph nodes in the ches
Right Atrium. The right atrium receives de-oxygenated blood from the body through the superior vena cava (head and upper body) and inferior vena cava (legs and lower torso). The sinoatrial node sends an impulse that causes the cardiac muscle tissue of the atrium to contract in a coordinated, wave-like manner. The inferior vena cava is one of the two main veins bringing de-oxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Veins from the legs and lower torso feed into the inferior vena cava, which empties into the right atrium of
The superior vena cava brings oxygen-poor blood from the head, neck and arms to the right atrium, while the inferior vena cava returns oxygen-poor blood to the same chamber from lower portions of the body. Remember that both the superior and inferior vena cavae (cavae is plural for cava and is pronounced cay-veeh). 
Deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium through three major veins: the superior and inferior vena cava and the coronary sinus. The superior vena cava returns all of the blood to the heart from tissues superior to the heart in the head, neck, arms and upper thorax. Likewise, the inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from tissues inferior to the heart, including the legs, abdomen and lower thorax.
The superior vena cava is one of the two main veins bringing de-oxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Veins from the head and upper body feed into the superior vena cava, which empties into the right atrium of the heart. The inferior vena cava is one of the two main veins bringing de-oxygenated blood from the body to the heart. Veins from the legs and lower torso feed into the inf
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The superior vena cava (also known as the cava or cva) is a large diameter (24 mm), yet short, vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body to the heart 's right atrium. It is located in the anterior right superior mediastinum. 
The inferior vena cava carries blood from the lower half of the body whilst the superior vena cava carries blood from the upper half of the body. It is formed by the joining of the right and the left common iliac veins, usually at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. The inferior vena cava (or IVC) (Latin: vena, vein, cavus, hollow), is one of the venae cavae, two large veins, that carries deoxygenated blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart.
Vena cava: The superior vena cava is the large vein which returns blood to the heart from the head, neck and both upper limbs. The inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from the lower part of the body. The return of blood via the vena cava can be compromised and cause disease. For example, in the superior vena cava syndrome, the symptoms that result from compression of the large vein that carries blood down to the heart.