I would, first, like to examine five concerns the general population seems to have about cloning human beings and argue that they show either a misunderstanding about the process and/or result of cloning, or else an ignorance of what it is that we already do.
... ultimately, when children are born with the use of this technology they will not be called clones. There is a technology that scientists developed called nuclear magnetic resonance. When this was used in medical scenarios, people were resistant to it, because the word nuclear was there.
Therapeutic cloning would involve cloning cells from a human for use in medicine and transplants, and is an active area of research, but is not in medical practice anywhere in the world, as of 2015.
His results suggest, then, that cloning should be possible. Genetically-identical nuclei should be able to produce genetically-identical individuals. And, of course, that is what occurs in human identical twins, triplets, etc. They are miniclones. Since Spemann's time, the development of micromanipulators has made it possible to remove nuclei from cells.
You predicted, I think two years ago, that human cloning would be here with us, within two years. I don't think I said that ... I predicted that human cloning would be with us in 10 years and I still believe that is the case, because there is a demand among a small number of people for this technology to have babies. It's being driven by the marketplace.
We first heard about this from Scientists in Scotland that had successfully cloned a sheep called Dolly, the first mammal to be reproduced identically from the artificially manipulated cells of a donor mammal. Since Dolly the sheep was cloned in 1996 scientists have been going further with their DNA research.
In particular, I have two concerns: 1. Many of the proposed uses of cloning human beings (e.g. ensuring that there will be a supply of organ donors) involve using a human being (and, again, make no mistake, a human clone would be a human being) as a means to accomplish an end of some other human being(s).
The characteristics of the clone were also unpredictable because scientists were cloning from an embryo whose traits could not be predicted. The practice of cloning took on new meaning in 1996 with the birth of Dolly the sheep, the world's first mammal cloned from an adult cell.