How to Use: Suma Root. Suma root has the ability to act as an adaptogen, helping the body to cope with stress, increasing energy levels, and resistance to disease. Suma root has been marketed under the name Brazilian Ginseng, in part to trade on the familiarity with ginseng among North American herbalists. 
Suma Root Benefits. Suma root has been used for hundreds of years for it’s medicinal properties. It is considered an adaptogen, a substance that strengthens and protects the body and mind against stress. Many people use suma to treat illnesses like skin problems, diabetes, tumors and the symptoms of menopause. Suma root has, in the past been marketed as Brazilian ginseng though it is not a true ginseng and comes from a different plant genus. It does exhibit similar properties though, such as stress reliever and normalizing the body’s system
Suma root, derived from the base of the suma plant, has a history of use for dietary and medicinal purposes. Indigenous to the rain forests of the Amazon Basin of South America, suma has long been used for its ability to stabilize and restore balance to the body's various systems. 
What is it? Suma root, also known as Brazilian ginseng or para toda (which means “for all things”), has been used by the indigenous peoples of the Amazon region for generations as a general cure-all, as well as a tonic for helping with strength, energy, rejuvenation, and sexual prowess. 
It’s commonly called Brazilian ginseng, suma powder, and the term ginseng can generically refer to suma root as well. The scientific name for the most commonly studied form of suma root is Pfaffia paniculata, although any plant with the prefix Pfaffia is a ginseng/suma root type of plant. This means any “conclusions” drawn about the health benefits of suma root should be accepted with a healthy dose of doubt because the general nature of these things is that reams of research need to come in over many years from many different angles before people can conclude anything.
Suma is a large ground vine with a deep root system, found in the Amazon basin area. In South America, Suma is known as Para Toda, which means “for all things.”. Native peoples of the Amazon region have used suma for over 300 years as a tonic, a calming agent, ulcer treatment, and even an aphrodisiac. 
Its Purported Benefits: The rap on suma root is that it’s been used by native americans and other indigenous peoples in the America’s for hundreds of years to treat illness, improve immunity and hormonal balance, and increase the body’s self-healing abilities. It’s been purported to have cancer-fighting and immuno-stimulating effects. This means any “conclusions” drawn about the health benefits of suma root should be accepted with a healthy dose of doubt because the general nature of these things is that reams of research need to come in over many years from many different angles before people can conclude anything.
Suma root (Pfaffia paniculata), also called Brazilian ginseng, is native to South America. It is considered an adaptogenic herb and used to help the body fight physical, emotional, and environmental stress. Suma root is used as a natural remedy for conditions ranging from fatigue to menopause. Suma root is also used for the following purposes. 1  To increase virility: According to a PubMed abstract, suma increased ejaculation rates and time on impotent/sluggish rats. 2  Researchers concluded that this result supports the folk remedy of using suma as a sexual stimulant.
SUMA Overview Information. Suma is a plant. It is sometimes called Brazilian ginseng, although it is not related to ginseng. The root is used to make medicine. Suma is used as an “adaptogen” to help the body adapt to stress by improving the immune system. Suma is also used as a treatment for cancer and tumors, diabetes, and male sexual performance problems; as a tonic to restore body function; and as an aphrodisiac to heighten sexual arousal.