Lamb, hogget, and mutton (UK, India, South Africa, Canada, New Zealand and Australia) are terms for the meat of domestic sheep (species Ovis aries) at different ages. A sheep in its first year is called a lamb, and its meat is also called lamb. The meat of a lamb is taken from the animal between one month and one year old, with a carcase (carcass in American English) weight of between 5.5 and 30 kilograms (12 and 65 lbs). This meat generally is more tender than that from older sheep and appears more often on tables in some Western countries.
Sheep meat is called mutton. Baby sheep meat is called lamb. An example of a cut of meat from a young sheep is a lamb chop. No goat meat is called goat or capretto or chevon depending of the age of the goat. Sheep produce lambs and meat from young sheep is called lamb, meat from older sheep is call … ed mutton. There is a Jamaican dish called chivo which is made with goat and it is delicious. 2 people found this useful
One of the earliest animals to be domesticated for agricultural purposes, sheep are raised for fleece, meat (lamb, hogget or mutton) and milk. A sheep's wool is the most widely used animal fiber, and is usually harvested by shearing. Ovine meat is called lamb when from younger animals and mutton when from older ones. 
The terms lamb or mutton are names for the animals or meat of a domestic sheep. The meat of a sheep a year old or younger is generally known as lamb, whereas the meat of an older sheep is mutton. Very young lamb is often called milk fed lamb or ****** lamb. Best Answer: The meat which comes from goats is referred to by several different names across the world. In the U.K it is usually referred to simply as goat or sometimes kid. Chevon has been selected by some as being a cross between the words chevre and mouton.
Yes, lamb is baby sheep, just like veal is baby cow. If it was adult meat it would be called mutton. As much as there is an aversion for some people it's important to realize that there is often another reason these young animals are slaughtered. Report Abuse. Yes, lamb is another way of saying young sheep, as mutton meat is from older sheep. We don't say that we're eating cow or baby cow, we say beef or veal. Eat what you want to eat.
a lamb is a baby sheep so the name of a baby lamb is a lamb. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Karin L. 270,023 Contributions. Cattle reproduction is more than just putting the bull out with a bunch of cows. A lamb is the young offspring of sheep. Here's some other definitions to help you out: - Hogget: an immature sheep past the 'baby' stage; what we call an adolescent.
The definitions for lamb, hogget and mutton vary considerably between countries. Younger lambs are smaller and more tender. Mutton is meat from a sheep over two years old, and has less tender flesh. In general, the darker the colour, the older the animal. Baby lamb meat will be pale pink, while regular lamb is pinkish-red. The meat of a lamb is taken from the animal between one month and one year old, with a carcase (carcass in American English) weight of between 5.5 and 30 kilograms (12 and 65 lbs). This meat generally is more tender than that from older sheep and appears more often on tables in some Wester
· just now. Report Abuse. the meat of sheep is called mutton. goat has many names depending on the country your are from. in spanish young goat is called cabrito and in france and belgium it is called chevon. i am not aware of any common english names for goat unless you are referring to the name kid for young goat. Best Answer: The meat which comes from goats is referred to by several different names across the world. In the U.K it is usually referred to simply as goat or sometimes kid. Chevon has been selected by some as being a cross between the words chevre and mouton.
Younger lambs are smaller and more tender. Mutton is meat from a sheep over two years old, and has less tender flesh. In general, the darker the color, the older the animal. Baby lamb meat will be pale pink, while regular lamb is pinkish-red. 1  Lamb — a young sheep under 12 months of age which does not have any permanent incisor teeth in wear. A lamb is the young offspring of sheep. Here's some other definitions to help you out: - Hogget: an immature sheep past the 'baby' stage; what we call an adolescent.