Osgood–Schlatter disease (also known as apophysitis of the tibial tubercle or OSD) is an inflammation of the patellar ligament at the tibial tuberosity. It is characterized by a painful lump just below the knee and is most often seen in young adolescents. Osgood–Schlatter disease causes pain in the front lower part of the knee. This is usually at the ligament-bone junction of the patellar ligament and the tibial tuberosity. The tibial tuberosity is a slight elevation of bone on the anterior and proximal portion of the tibia
Osgood-Schlatter disease is characterized by inflammation of the patellar tendon and surrounding soft tissues. It is caused by the constant pulling of the patellar tendon on the area below the knee where the tendon attaches. 
During the growth spurts of adolescence, certain muscles and tendons can cause pain or discomfort. Osgood-Schlatter disease is a condition connected to these growth spurts, specifically affecting the knee. This condition is typically diagnosed in growing adolescents, especially boys ages 10 to 15. Teenage athletes engaged in sports involving a lot of jumping or running tend to be more susceptible to this condition
Osgood-Schlatter disease is a disorder involving painful inflammation of the lower front of the knee, where the large tendon (patellar tendon) attached to the lower portion of the kneecap (patella) attaches to the bone (tibia or shinbone) of the leg below. 1 Osgood-Schlatter disease is a painful inflammation in the front of the bony leg below the knee. 2  Osgood-Schlatter disease can cause local pain, inflammation, swelling, and calcification.
Osgood-Schlatter disease is an overuse condition or injury of the knee that causes pain and swelling below the knee area over the shin bone in growing children and adolescents. Osgood-Schlatter disease is characterized by inflammation of the patellar tendon and surrounding soft tissues. It is caused by the constant pulling of the patellar tendon on the area below the knee where the tendon attaches.
Osgood-Schlatter (say: oz-good shlot-ter) disease is one of the most common causes of knee pain in young athletes. It causes swelling, pain and tenderness just below the knee, over the shin bone (also called the tibia). 
Osgood-Schlatter Disease (Knee Pain). Osgood-Schlatter disease is a common cause of knee pain in growing adolescents. It is an inflammation of the area just below the knee where the tendon from the kneecap (patellar tendon) attaches to the shinbone (tibia). Osgood-Schlatter disease most often occurs during growth spurts, when bones, muscles, tendons, and other structures are changing rapidly.
Osgood-Schlatter Disease. Osgood-Schlatter disease is an overuse condition or injury of the knee that causes pain and swelling below the knee area over the shin bone in growing children and adolescents. Osgood-Schlatter disease is characterized by inflammation of the patellar tendon and surrounding soft tissues. It is caused by the constant pulling of the patellar tendon on the area below the knee where the tendon attaches.