1.YADAH-yaw-daw-to worship with the extended hand. The giving of oneself in worship and adoration. To lift your hands unto the Lord. It carries the meaning of absoulute surrender as a young child does to a parent - pick me up, I'm all yours. Scriptures: Gen. 29:35, 2 Chron.
Tehilla /te-hil-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Tehilla is praise song. Tehilla is a variant transcription of Tehila (Hebrew). Compare last name Tesillo. Kreatif forms: Tahilla, Tehilna, Tehilta. Tehilla is a rare given name for females. Tehilla is a rare surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Tehilla for girls.
Here are pictures of people with the name Tehila. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Tehila is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Te-hi-la. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4975 in baby name popularity for girls with 28 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
Local language versions of biblical names of Hebrew origin such as Hannah and David are still widely internationally popular today. Modern Hebrew names are often derived from Hebrew vocabulary, for example Aviva (spring) and Dov (bear). Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
Tehila /tehi-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Tehila is praise song. Tehila is a rare first name for females. Tehila is an equivalently unique last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Tehila for girls. Tehila has not been ranked in the list so far
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Tehila in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Tehila in Nautical Flags page. Neither Ashkenazi or Sephardic Jews will name a baby after one of the parents. After a child is born, the father is given an aliyah (religious honor to bless the reading of the Torah). After this a blessing is said for the health of the mother and child. If the baby is a girl, she is named at this time.
Tweet. [ syll. te-hi-la, teh-ila ] The baby girl name Tehila is pronounced as T EY HHihLAH †. Tehila's origin, as well as its use, is in the Hebrew language. Tehila is of the meaning praiseworthy. The name Tehilla (Hebrew) is a variant transcription of Tehila. Tehila is uncommon as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names