Some women may wish to delay a period. This may be if a period is due at a time that would be inconvenient; for example, on a special holiday, during an exam, etc. Delaying a period cannot be guaranteed but the following usually works. 1  Is this normal... 2  im freaking. 3  Guest1replies. If you are not taking 'the pill' then a hormone tablet called norethisterone can be prescribed. The dose is 5 mg three times a day starting 3-4 days before a period is due. It can be continued for up to two weeks or so until you want to have a period.
If you were unable to get a prescription for medication to delay your menstrual cycle, there are still a couple other options. Even though it won't prevent your period, a diaphragm, a small cup placed near your cervix before intercourse, can stop the flow from your period for a short amount of time. Too much exercise, too few calories and major stress or anxiety can all delay your period, but they aren't healthy. There are, however, a few safer alternatives to try if you want to postpone your monthly flow for a short amount of time, to keep your period from spoiling your special day. slide 2 of 6.
The length of a normal menstrual cycle is 28 days, plus/minus 7 days. That is, a period may occur 7 days before the expected date of the period or may be normally delayed for 7 days beyond the expected date. But, if the delay is more than 35 (28+7) days, then the cause of the delay needs to be investigated. Periods can be delayed for a single cycle or can be delayed in every cycle. If the delay is in only a single cycle, the most likely cause is pregnancy. If the periods are delayed in every cycle, then the chances are that the woman has a naturally long menstrual cycle and that this delay in her periods is normal for her
So, when the periods are delayed, it is due to delay of ovulation. A normal luteal phase (or progestogenic phase) is always of the same duration - 14 days. The length of the estrogenic or follicular phase (the time before ovulation) is usually what determines the length of the cycle. But, if the delay is more than 35 (28+7) days, then the cause of the delay needs to be investigated. Periods can be delayed for a single cycle or can be delayed in every cycle. If the delay is in only a single cycle, the most likely cause is pregnancy.
1 Your period occurs during week 13, about once every three months. 2  Taking low-dose estrogen pills instead of inactive pills helps reduce bleeding, bloating and other side effects sometimes associated with a hormone-free interval. 3  Quartette. 4  With this 91-day regimen, you take active pills for 84 days — or 12 weeks. The choice of birth control pill is up to you and your doctor. Keep in mind that you can reduce withdrawal symptoms and unscheduled bleeding by taking inactive pills for only three or four days rather than the full seven days or by replacing inactive pills with low-dose estrogen pills.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Taking estrogen supplements does not cause a delay in a woman's period. However, it may increase the patient's vaginal discharge. 
If you are looking for a 'safe way to delay my menstrual period', this article has valuable information that can help you to put off your period until a more convenient time. There are a few options to consider, depending on the time left before your next period starts. Too much exercise, too few calories and major stress or anxiety can all delay your period, but they aren't healthy. There are, however, a few safer alternatives to try if you want to postpone your monthly flow for a short amount of time, to keep your period from spoiling your special day. slide 2 of 6.
Delays in your period can occur for several reasons. Some of the most common reasons are either stress or illness. However, being underweight or overweight can contribute to a delay in your period as well. A simple miscalculation can be the root of a delay. Menopause and pregnancy are some other culprits of a missed period as well.
So yes the progesterone could be delaying your period, or you could be pregnant. I've found when first using it, bleeding can be either later or earlier than normal, it does settle in time.Progesterone does raise temps, but it's impossible to tell if yours is higher due to the 400mg/day you're using, or pregnancy. My doctor has told me to take 200mg 2Xs daily from day 20 until my period begins. I have very regular cycles (to the hour) and have seen a lot of info that progesterone can delay periods (I'm taking Utrogestan). My hormone levels were fine when I had them tested last month (and have no previous problems) but I had a few periods (Oct-Nov) that were 'off'