Mycoplasma pneumonia is a type of atypical pneumonia. It is caused by the bacteria M. pneumoniae. It typically affects people younger than age 40. Pneumonia due to mycoplasma and chlamydophila bacteria is usually mild. 1  Pneumonia due to Legionella pneumophila gets worse during the first 4 - 6 days, and then improves over 4 - 5 days. 2  Even though symptoms will improve, it may take a while for them to go away completely.
Pneumonia is a lung infection. It may be caused by viruses, bacteria, fungus or other types of germs. It can occur in people of all ages and make people very sick. Atypical pneumonia is a pneumonia caused by specific bacteria. These bacteria tend to cause milder forms of pneumonia. Since the form is mild many people continue normal activities while sick, leading to the term walking pneumonia. All types of pneumonia are potentially serious conditions. 
Atypical pneumonia, also known as walking pneumonia, is the type of pneumonia not caused by one of the more traditional pathogens. Its clinical presentation contrasts to that of typical pneumonia. A variety of microorganisms can cause it. Atypical pneumonia is atypical in that it is caused by atypical organisms (other than Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, and Moraxella catarrhalis).
Definition. Pneumonia is an infection of the lung. With atypical pneumonia, the infection is caused by different bacteria than the ones that cause typical pneumonia. These include Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydophila pneumoniae. Atypical pneumonia also tends to have milder symptoms than typical pneumonia. Mycoplasma pneumonia is a type of atypical pneumonia. It is caused by the bacteria M. pneumoniae. It often affects people younger than age 40. Pneumonia due to chlamydia bacteria occurs year round. It is usually mild.
see aspiration pneumonia. atypical pneumonia. histologically the pneumonia is atypical in that there are no signs of acute inflammation and it is characterized by an exudation of eosinophilic, protein-rich fluid in the alveoli which may become organized to form a hyaline membrane. 
Atypical pneumonia refers to pneumonia caused by certain bacteria, including Legionella pneumophila, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydophila pneumoniae. It is called “atypical” because the symptoms differ from those of pneumonia due to other common bacteria. Pneumonia is an infection of the lung. Pneumonia due to mycoplasma and chlamydophila bacteria is usually mild. 1  Pneumonia due to Legionella pneumophila gets worse during the first 4 - 6 days, and then improves over 4 - 5 days. 2  Even though symptoms will improve, it may take a while for them to go away completely.
The symptoms associated with atypical pneumonia are generally mild. They may include: 1  confusion (legionella). 2  chills. 3  cough. 4  diarrhea (legionella). 5  headache. 6  fever. 7  muscle aches. 8  muscle stiffness.