If the college or university you are looking for is very obviously one that should have a CEEB code-such as Harvard or Cambridge-you are probably looking for something too specific. For example, Harvard undergrad is listed as Harvard College, *not* Harvard University. You can search for just part of a college's name to widen your search a bit. There are many universities, particularly outside the US, that do not have CEEB codes. If your parents' college(s) do not have a CEEB code, simply click the 'Not Found' link that appears after you click the search button in the CEEB code lookup window. It will automatically populate the six zeros code (000000) on your application, then you fill in the name and location of the college
The Federal School Code List is a searchable document in PDF and Excel format. The list will be updated on the first of February, May, August, and November of each calendar year. 
In the 'Academics' section, you are required to enter the school you now attend or from which you graduated. The first field that must be completed is the CEEB/ACT Code, and a 'lookup' feature is provided to make the process easier for you as an applicant. Simply click on the 'lookup' link to search for your current school by country and city, then click on your school's name. The pop-up window will close, and your school's CEEB/ACT Code and Location will be pre-populated on the page. Correct entry of the CEEB/ACT Code is extremely important to the accurate and timely processing of your submitted application. On the teacher evaluation sheet, it says that...and IDK what to put. Mind you, I am not using the Common Application but just the teacher evaluation.
Add School. You can use the Federal School Code Search to search for colleges you're interested in including on your FAFSA. You can also find detailed college information, like tuition and fee amounts and graduation rates, and compare that information for up to 10 colleges at a time. If you have more than 10 colleges to compare, you must remove some schools from the Selected Schools table in order to add and compare the additional schools. Use the search fields below to begin your search. Keep in mind that the School Year and State fields are required.
CEEB stands for College Entrance Examination Board. A CEEB code is a standardized ID number that is assigned to a high school, college, or university. CEEB codes are issued by the Educational Testing Service (ETS). These 4- to 6-digit codes are mostly used in college entrance exams such as the SAT and ACT. Simply search the list of schools for the name of a specific school and click on that link to insert the school’s CEEB code into the form. The CEEB codes are needed when you register for a SAT tests or send score reports to colleges and scholarship programs.
We are improving the efficiency of our branch offices and saving bandwidth by using BranchCache in Windows Server 2008 R2 and Windows 7, said Lukas Kucera, IT services manager of Lukoil. , one of the largest integrated oil and gas companies in the world. 