A Chargeback occurs when a customer formally disputes a charge by contacting the issuer of the credit card. Phillip Parker is a former merchant services agent turned small business advocate and the author of  Fee Sweep , which teaches merchants how to dramatically lower their processing rates, eliminate junk fees, and avoid fine-print scams.
From the merchant's point of view, if you do not prove the transaction to be legitimate, the bank will take back the entire value of the transaction from your account, along with an additional fee. This chargeback fee will range from $0 to $100, depending on the merchant bank sponsoring your. account. As a merchant,it will take some time to manage and remedy a chargeback. A typical chargeback process lasts anywhere from 6 weeks to up to 6 months. If eachstep takes the maximum amount for completion, then it should not be surprising for a chargeback to pressure you for what will seem like forever.
When a customer disputes a charge, you receive a chargeback notification (sometimes called a Chargeback Advice form), and the amount of the original transaction is credited to the customer's account, and debited from yours. Chargebacks are an unpleasant fact of life for merchants. Hopefully, chargebacks will be a rare event for you, but you should know how to protect yourself. A chargeback is a transaction that has been disputed by a customer. Chargebacks occur for a variety of reasons.
Dharma’s chargeback fee is $20. A chargeback occurs when one of your customers disputes a sale with their credit card company. 
Chargeback is the return of funds to a consumer, mainly used in the United States, forcibly initiated by the issuing bank of the instrument used by a consumer to settle a debt. Specifically, it is the reversal of a prior outbound transfer of funds from a consumer's bank account, line of credit, or credit card. The merchant's only recourse after the second chargeback is to initiate arbitration of the dispute by the card association. The fee for this is on the order of $250, and the arbitration loser is then obligated to pay the costs of the arbitration.
How Chargeback Fees Work. Chargebacks happen when a customer disputes a transaction with a merchant. The credit card company or bank returns the money from the merchant’s account and places it back into the customer’s account. For processing the claim, banks charge a fee, ranging from $15 to $25 per chargeback. Multiply that over the thousands of transactions a merchant processes, and the result is billions potentially lost each year by businesses.
Chargeback fees can be an expensive part of doing business as a merchant. When you accept a card payment from a customer, you open yourself up to potential fraud as well as customers’ disputes if there’s a problem with the product or service they purchased. For processing the claim, banks charge a fee, ranging from $15 to $25 per chargeback. Multiply that over the thousands of transactions a merchant processes, and the result is billions potentially lost each year by businesses.
One of the most common reasons for a chargeback is a fraudulent transaction. In this case, a credit card is used without the consent or proper authorization of the card holder. In some cases, a merchant is responsible for charges fraudulently imposed on a customer. The merchant's only recourse after the second chargeback is to initiate arbitration of the dispute by the card association. The fee for this is on the order of $250, and the arbitration loser is then obligated to pay the costs of the arbitration.
A retrieval request is a request from the customer's card issuer to the merchant asking for documentation (like sales receipts, invoices, and contracts) relating to a customer charge. A retrieval request may precede or be part of a chargeback. Chargebacks are an unpleasant fact of life for merchants. Hopefully, chargebacks will be a rare event for you, but you should know how to protect yourself. A chargeback is a transaction that has been disputed by a customer. Chargebacks occur for a variety of reasons.
A chargeback (also known as a reversal) is a form of customer protection provided by the issuing banks, which allows cardholders to file a complaint regarding fraudulent transactions on their statement. Once the cardholder files a dispute, the issuing bank makes an investigation into the complaint. As a merchant,it will take some time to manage and remedy a chargeback. A typical chargeback process lasts anywhere from 6 weeks to up to 6 months. If eachstep takes the maximum amount for completion, then it should not be surprising for a chargeback to pressure you for what will seem like forever.