Stateful firewalls inspect the packets at all levels. A stateless firewall is one that is statically configured to permit or deny specific IP traffic based simply on its source and/or destination ip address and/or port number. It does not look any deeper into the packet. Best Answer: Stateful is a type of firewall that inspects packets as they flow through it, allowing established connections to continue whilst denying packets that are not associated with an established connection.
Stateful firewalls arrived not long after stateless firewalls. Stateful firewalls keep tables of network connections and states in memory in order to determine if a packet is part of a preexisting network connection, the start of a new and legitimate connection, or an unwanted or unrelated packet. 
Also referred to as dynamic packet filtering. Stateful inspection is a firewall architecture that works at the network layer. Unlike static packet filtering, which examines a packet based on the information in its header, stateful inspection tracks each connection traversing all interfaces of the firewall and makes sure they are valid. 
Before the advent of stateful firewalls, there were stateless firewalls, a firewall that treated each network frame (or packet) in isolation. Packet filters like these operated at the Network Layer (layer 3) and functioned more efficiently because they only looked at the header part of a packet. A stateful firewall keeps track of the state of network connections (such as TCP streams or UDP communication) and is able to hold significant attributes of each connection in memory.
vs. Cisco Sourcefire SNORT. Stateful inspection, also known as dynamic packet filtering, is a firewall technology that monitors the state of active connections and uses this information to determine which network packets to allow through the firewall. Making Networks Virtual: The Latest on SDN Technologies. Stateful inspection monitors communications packet s over a period of time and examines both incoming and outgoing packets. Outgoing packets that request specific types of incoming packets are tracked and only those incoming packets constituting a proper response are allowed
Stateful inspection, also referred to as dynamic packet filtering, is a security feature often included in business networks. Check Point Software introduced stateful inspection in the use of its FireWall-1 in 1994. A stateful firewall keeps track of the state of network connections (such as TCP streams or UDP communication) and is able to hold significant attributes of each connection in memory.
A stateful firewall keeps track of the state of connections based on source/destination IP, source/destination port and connections flags. It can really only keep state for TCP connections because TCP uses flags in the packet headers. With stateful failover, the state table from the active firewall is replicated to the standby firewall incase of a failover event. With stateless failover, the state table is not replicated to the standby firewall, so in the event of a failover, all connections have to be re-initiated.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In computing, a stateful firewall (any firewall that performs stateful packet inspection (SPI) or stateful inspection) is a firewall that keeps track of the state of network connections (such as TCP streams, UDP communication) traveling across it. A stateful firewall keeps track of the state of network connections (such as TCP streams or UDP communication) and is able to hold significant attributes of each connection in memory.
Learn More Buy. The focus of this chapter is on stateful firewalls, a type of firewall that attempts to track the state of network connections when filtering packets. The stateful firewall spends most of its cycles examining packet information in Layer 4 (transport) and lower. However, it also offers more advanced inspection capabilities by targeting vital packets for Layer 7 (application) examination, such as the packet that initializes a connection.