The USA PATRIOT ACT is an acronym standing for: Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act.. This legislation was signed into law on October 26, 2002 as Public Law No: 107-56. The USA Patriot Act is composed of 342 pages. For more information, contact the National Coalition to Repeal the USA Patriot Act, 22 West Bryan St., Savannah, GA 31401. www.repealnow.com. email: repealnow@lycos.com. Kellie Gasink is the coordinator of the National Coalition to Repeal the USA Patriot Act annd is the Chair of the Green Party of Chatham County/GPUSA.
The USA PATRIOT Act, though approved by large majorities in the U.S. Senate and House of Representative, was controversial, and parts of the law were invalidated or modified by successful legal challenges over constitutional infringements to civil liberties. The Act had several sunset provisions, most reauthorized by the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 and the USA PATRIOT Act Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act.
One of the most controversial aspects of the USA PATRIOT Act is in title V, and relates to National Security Letters (NSLs). An NSL is a form of administrative subpoena used by the FBI, and reportedly by other U.S. government agencies including the CIA and the Department of Defense (DoD). Title III of the Act, titled International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, is intended to facilitate the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
Most of the above claims do not actually pertain to the USA PATRIOT Act, so it is strange that they are included on a web site devoted to the law. As for the USA PATRIOT Act, the web site does claim that the Justice Department is. using new legal tools to detect, disrupt, and prevent potential terrorist plots. Given all the backlash against the law, the Justice Department finally released (on July 13, 2004) a report in defense of the USA PATRIOT Act. The title was, Report From the Field: The USA PATRIOT Act at Work (US Department of Justice, 2004).
The USA Patriot Act (PA) is composed of many laws already on the books that are designed to counter terrorism in the U.S. What distinguishes the PA from these pre-September 11 laws is its ENABLING characteristics. For more information, contact the National Coalition to Repeal the USA Patriot Act, 22 West Bryan St., Savannah, GA 31401. www.repealnow.com. email: repealnow@lycos.com. Kellie Gasink is the coordinator of the National Coalition to Repeal the USA Patriot Act annd is the Chair of the Green Party of Chatham County/GPUSA.
In June, the Select Committee on Intelligence proposed legislation to the House on July 21 as the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005. It repealed the sunset date for surveillance provisions of the Patriot Act — in other words, it would have made those sections permanent. The Act had several sunset provisions, most reauthorized by the USA PATRIOT Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 and the USA PATRIOT Act Additional Reauthorizing Amendments Act.
The stated purpose of the USA PATRIOT Act was: To deter and punish terrorist acts in the United States and around the world, to enhance law enforcement investigatory tools, and for other purposes.. It is these other purposes that have legal experts and normal citizens very worried. Given all the backlash against the law, the Justice Department finally released (on July 13, 2004) a report in defense of the USA PATRIOT Act. The title was, Report From the Field: The USA PATRIOT Act at Work (US Department of Justice, 2004).
Following a lack of Congressional approval, parts of the Patriot Act expired on June 1, 2015. With the passage of the USA Freedom Act on June 2, 2015 the expired parts were restored and renewed through 2019. Title III of the Act, titled International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, is intended to facilitate the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism.
For the first two years under the law, no one knew for sure just how the USA PATRIOT Act was actually being used, mostly because the Justice Department resisted virtually all requests for information based upon claims that the information is classified in order to protect national security. Given all the backlash against the law, the Justice Department finally released (on July 13, 2004) a report in defense of the USA PATRIOT Act. The title was, Report From the Field: The USA PATRIOT Act at Work (US Department of Justice, 2004).
This was introduced to the House as the Provide Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (PATRIOT) Act of 2001, and was later passed by the House as the Uniting and Strengthening America (USA) Act (H.R. 2975) on October 12. Title III of the Act, titled International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, is intended to facilitate the prevention, detection and prosecution of international money laundering and the financing of terrorism.