1 The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 2  DNA is a double stranded molecule while RNA is a single stranded molecule. 3  DNA is stable under alkaline conditions while RNA is not stable. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
There are three main types of RNA: 1  Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper. 1
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 
Like DNA, RNA is composed of its phosphate group, five-carbon sugar (the less stable ribose), and four nitrogen-containing nucleobases: adenine, uracil (not thymine), guanine, and cytosine. Base Pairing. Adenine links to thymine (A-T) and cytosine links to guanine (C-G). 1 Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper.
Other than these differences, DNA and RNA are the same. Their phosphates, sugars, and bases show the same bonding patterns to form nucleotides and their nucleotides bind to form nucleic acids in the same way. 1  RNA is a single-stranded nucleic acid. 2  RNA has a ribose sugar instead of a deoxyribose sugar like DNA. 3  RNA nucleotides have a uracil base instead of thymine. Figure %: Common Secondary Structures of RNA. The main difference between the three-dimensional structures of DNA and RNA is that in RNA the three-dimensional structure is single-stranded. The base-pairing that occurs in RNA is all through regions of self-complementarity.
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
A nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all modern living organisms. DNA's genes are expressed, or manifested, through the proteins that its nucleotides produce with the help of RNA. 1 Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper.
DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
Like DNA, RNA is composed of its phosphate group, five-carbon sugar (the less stable ribose), and four nitrogen-containing nucleobases: adenine, uracil (not thymine), guanine, and cytosine. RNA folding in on itself into a hairpin loop. In both molecules, the nucleobases are attached to their sugar-phosphate backbone. 1 Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper.
DNA is usually double stranded and most cellular RNA is single stranded. 1)In DNA the pentose sugar is deoxyribose.Whereas in RNA the pentose sugar is ribose. 2)In DNA the common organic bases are adenine,guanine,cytosine and thymine.Whereas in RNA the common organic bases are adenine,guanine,cytosine and uracil. Three of the nitrogenous bases are the same in the two types (adenine, cytosine, and guanine), but DNA contains thymine while RNA contains uracil. There are also functional differences. DNA is the blueprint for all proteins formed by the cells.