Save. Oil keeps your engine lubricated and prevents overheating. If you're low on oil or, worse yet, run your engine without any oil, you're probably in for serious problems. Running your car without oil can cause extensive damage to your engine. If you're lucky enough to not have completely ruined your engine, there are a few things you absolutely must do to prevent further damage.
Thicker oil can help oil burning. How much varies depending on how worn the engine is, but I've seen a change from 10w-40 to 20w-50 cut it in half. The mileage loss was maybe 1-2 mpg from a 2.3 liter Vega engine (I burned 10 quarts of oil on a 2500 mile trip in that car on 10w-40).
Add oil to your car before you turn on the engine again. The new oil will run through the engine and properly lubricate all the parts if you have to drive your car again. You shouldn't drive the car until it is inspected, though, since you likely caused extensive damage already. Running your car without oil can cause extensive damage to your engine. If you're lucky enough to not have completely ruined your engine, there are a few things you absolutely must do to prevent further damage.
No, you will still be creating damage with no oil pressure regardless, but I have seen engines run with no oil for a while. I had an AMC 258 in a Sprint where I blew the #6 rod out of the block, lost all the oil, and it still ran for a good 10-15 minutes until I shut it off! If the engine is really old and loose, you probably have low oil pressure not 'no' oil pressure. Keep it full of oil and don't push it too hard and it might run for a long time. If you really have no oil pressure the engine will freeze up faster than I can answer this question. bob_whelan1944 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Watch what happens when we run a 2 cycle gas engine without oil mixed in the fuel. Properly mixing 2 cycle oil prevents this kind of engine damage. For small engine parts, visit: http://www.ereplacementparts.com/smal... 
Google Ads. Checking Your Engine Oil. Running low on motor oil can cause a lot more damage to your car than you might think. Having a low level of oil in your car will mean that the engine is being worn far quicker than it should be and can lead to you having to fork out on expensive repairs. In extreme cases it can ruin your engine completely! 
Originally Posted by webster426 How long can you run an engine without oil before it does permenant damage? Is it more based off of temperature or time? Originally Posted by webster426 hehe.....I was asking because I was multi-tasking yesterday while working on my 2.8L 30V and fired it up. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. If you run an engine without oil, the pistons will over heat, and other components in your cranckcase and parts that need oil can crack because of no oil. You'll spend big $ to get your car fixed if you run it with no oil. 
Catastophic engine damage can occur within minutes if the engine is run without oil. I would be more concerned why the idiot light on the dash didn't warn you of low oil pressure. Oil pressure is directly linked to oil capacity in the crankcase. A car with no oil would clang and bang at start-up. If anybody drive it like that, you wouldn't have to worry about damage, because the car would stop, engine seized, long before you got to your destination. Source(s): Fred C · 8 years ago.
Best Answer: Baloney. You have to learn to read a dipstick. A car low on oil would start to clang and bang like an old diesel, and a person could not possibly miss the noise before damage was done. A car with no oil would clang and bang at start-up. If anybody drive it like that, you wouldn't have to worry about damage, because the car would stop, engine seized, long before you got to your destination. Source(s): Fred C · 8 years ago.