On average, a cow is expected to have a breeding span of 10 to 15 years. However, the actual span depends … on the breed; Brahman and Brahman-type cows tend to live longer than British or Continental cattle, and they tend to breed for longer than dairy cows. The average life of a cow is up to 20 years if they are kept in good conditions and has a proper diet. On occasion up to 25 years. Normal would be about 15 years. My wife works on a dairy farm they have at least one cow of 15 years of age that is producing milk, She is milked twice daily
While most cattle live between 18 to 22 years, it's not unusual for Jerseys to live 25 years or more. The oldest Jersey cow recorded was 37 years old living at an animal rescue center in the United Kingdom. Jersey cows reach productive age earlier -- often bearing a calf months earlier than other dairy breeds. 
Selymes (1996) determined the minimal life span of beef cow lines as 8 years but, in his opinion, 10 years would be optimal. The average life span of purebred Hereford, crossbred beef cow and crossbred dairy cow populations was reported as 4.2 years by Arthur et al. (1993). 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The life expectancy of a cow if it was never milked, never been in calf etc is around 15 years. It depends on hard a cow is milked. Some of the big dairy units will only milk for 2 -3 years before the cow is sent barren and slaughtered. Also, I could find no info on the bulls used as herd sires for the dairy industry, only the cows. The normal and average life expectancy of the cow is from between 15 and 20 years.
Most sources agree that 15-20 years is average for dairy cows. I could find no information on life expectancy for herd sires for the beef industry (the lucky ones that don't end up as steaks and hamburger). Also, I could find no info on the bulls used as herd sires for the dairy industry, only the cows. The normal and average life expectancy of the cow is from between 15 and 20 years.
Confidence votes 25.5K. The average life of a cow is up to 20 years if they are kept in good conditions and has a proper diet. On occasion up to 25 years. Normal would be about 15 years. My wife works on a dairy farm they have at least one cow of 15 years of age that is producing milk, She is milked twice daily
Anonymous. Prime of life for a beef cow is 5-10 years so average herd age in a well managed herd should be 7-8 years. When I saw recommendations to cull 'old' cows during last year's drought I felt a better recommendation was to cull cows with teh lowest production. 1  or to post comments. 
Pigs: Slaughtered at 6 months young; Natural life span: 6 to 10 years. Chickens: Slaughtered at 6 weeks young; Natural life span: 5 to 8 years for those birds bred as egg layers such as Rhode Island Reds; 1 to 4 years for factory layer breeds such as leghorns; and 1 to 3 years for meat breeds. Turkeys: Slaughtered at 5 to 6 months young; Natural life span: 2 to 6 years.
This is my specialty. Cows and cattle have been a part of my life since before I can remember, and it reflects in how this topic is something I am very knowledgeable in. Cows, which are mature female bovines, can live for as long as 2 to 30 years. The average is 15 years for all cows, regardless of breed. On occasion up to 25 years. Normal would be about 15 years.   P … art Answer   My wife works on a dairy farm   they have at least one cow of 15 years of age that   is producing milk, She is milked twice daily.