Types of Passports. The United States Government issues a few different types of passports to American citizens. Each type has a specific purpose and requires specific requirements be met in order to obtain it. The information below provides details about the kinds of passports, who they are for and how they can be obtained. When you need a passport fast... A regular passport is issued to American citizens and nationals who may or may not be a U.S. citizen. Nationals who are not granted citizenship are those who are born in either American Samoa or Swains Island.
Every citizen is a national of the United States, but not every national is a citizen. There is a small class of American Samoans, born in American Samoa, including Swains Island, who are nationals but not citizens of the United States, See Passport message, below. There are five types of passport booklets; as well, the Department of State has issued only biometric passports as standard since August 2007, though non-biometric passports are valid until their expiry dates.
By law, a valid unexpired U.S. passport (or passport card) is conclusive (and not just prima facie) proof of U.S. citizenship, and has the same force and effect as proof of United States citizenship as certificates of naturalization or of citizenship, if issued to a U.S. citizen for the full period allowed by law. There are five types of passport booklets; as well, the Department of State has issued only biometric passports as standard since August 2007, though non-biometric passports are valid until their expiry dates.
A passport specifies nationality, but not necessarily citizenship or the place of residence of the passport holder. A passport holder is normally entitled to enter the country that issued the passport, though some people entitled to a passport may not be full citizens with right of abode. A passport is a document certifying identity and nationality; having the document does not of itself grant any rights, such as protection by the consulate of the issuing country, although it may indicate that the holder has such rights.
U.S. citizens are traveling overseas more than ever; the number of passports in circulation has risen every year since 1989. In 2010, 13,883,129 passports were issued. The United States issues four types of passports: regular passports, official passports, diplomatic passports and passport cards. P-Type refers not to a type of passport, but rather to the type of document issued. ‘P’ refers to passport. A regular passport is issued to a person who is a national of the United States. An applicant born in the United States must present a certified copy of his birth certificate with a registrar’s seal and signature.
First-legal, valid passports are only issued to citizens of that country. Therefore, if you hold a US passport, you are deemed to have US citizenship. Depending on your actual age, the fact that your parents obtained citizenship legally before your 18th birthday may have automatically included you as a citizen. Just having a US passport does NOT mean that you are a US citizen. If you are in the country legally and have a green card you can obtain a passport. My parents do a lot of traveling to Europe. My mom was not a US citizen at the time, but she had a passport.
Passport Card. This type of passport is an alternative to an ordinary passport. While it is not valid for international air travel, the card will allow US citizens to cross land and sea borders with Canada, Mexico and several countries in the Caribbean. Many of these countries did not previously require any type of passport for a US citizen to visit; now, with stricter laws stemming from the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative, an ordinary passport or passport card is required.
A passport is a travel document, usually issued by a country 's government, that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder for the purpose of international travel. Standard passports contain the holder's name, place and date of birth, photograph, signature, and other identifying information. A passport is a document certifying identity and nationality; having the document does not of itself grant any rights, such as protection by the consulate of the issuing country, although it may indicate that the holder has such rights.