The 5 K's-Symbol of Khalsa-the brotherhood of Sikhs. Sikhs who have made a public commitment to the faith by going through a special baptism, known as the Amrit Ceremony, are called members of the Khalsa (the community of baptised Sikhs). They adopt five symbols. These symbols (the Five K s) are not only a means of showing the Sikh identity, but they also have spiritual meanings and are powerful symbols of the faith. Most Sikhs, through custom and culture, follow the traditions of the Khalsa.
The kirpan (/kɪərˈpɑːn/ ; Punjabi: ਕਿਰਪਾਨ kirpān) is a ceremonial sword or knife carried by Sikhs. The word kirpan has two roots: the first root is kirpa, which means mercy, grace, compassion or kindness; the second root is aanaa, which in turn means honor, grace or dignity.
Kirpan was granted the status of article of faith on March 29, 1699 by Guru Gobind Singh Sahib at Anandpur Sahib. However, it does not mean that Kirpan was not sacred to the Sikhs before 1699. Right from Guru Nanak Sahib, Kirpan was a part and parcel of a Sikh's being. Commenting on Mogul invasion on the Sikh Homeland, Guru Nanak Sahib had given the message to the Sikhs to be prepared with a defending kirpan.
The Rehat Maryada does not specify the length of the Kirpan or how it is to be worn by the devotee. Kirpans can be anywhere from 3 foot swords carried by Sikhs on religious festivals, marriages and parades, to a few inches in length. Just as a Cross is worn be devout Christians, baptized Sikhs are required to wear the Kirpan. The Kirpan is no more symbolic a weapons than the Christian Cross is symbolic of a torture instrument. Sikhism is a 500 year old religion with over 20 million followers worldwide. It is ranked as a major world religion with even more followers than Judaism for example
The Kirpan (ceremonial sword) worn by followers of the Sikh religion sometimes raises questions or concerns among people who are unfamiliar with the religion or it's tenants. The Kirpan is an ingrained part of the Sikh religion and is in many ways it's religious symbolism is similar to the Cross in Christianity. Just as a Cross is worn be devout Christians, baptized Sikhs are required to wear the Kirpan. The Kirpan is no more symbolic a weapons than the Christian Cross is symbolic of a torture instrument. Sikhism is a 500 year old religion with over 20 million followers worldwide. It is ranked as a major world religion with even more followers than Judaism for example
Kirpan was granted the status of article of faith on March 29, 1699 by Guru Gobind Singh Sahib at Anandpur Sahib. However, it does not mean that Kirpan was not sacred to the Sikhs before 1699. Right from Guru Nanak Sahib, Kirpan was a part and parcel of a Sikh's being. Commenting on Mogul invasion on the Sikh Homeland, Guru Nanak Sahib had given the message to the Sikhs to be prepared with a defending kirpan. For a Sikh, Kirpan is an article of faith. For an initiate … d Sikh, wearing of a Kirpan is obligatory. An initiated Sikh, not wearing a Kirpan, would be in breach of his faith. Although its form has undergone several changes, sword has been part of the history of the world since pre-historic periods.
It is a religious commandment given by Guru Gobind Singh in 1699 that Sikhs must wear five articles of faith at all times, the kirpan being one of five articles. The word kirpan has two roots: the first root is kirpa, which means mercy, grace, compassion or kindness; the second root is aanaa, which in turn means honor, grace or dignity.
For most Sikhs the Kachera are a symbol of modesty. Kirpan. The kirpan is a sword worn by initiated (Khalsa) Sikhs. The Sikh community does not like the kirpan to be referred to either as a dagger or as a knife as both of these terms suggest violence and an intent to cause injury. The kirpan (sword) is worn as a reminder of the courage of the first five Sikhs who were willing to sacrifice their lives for the sake of their religion. These symbols (the Five K s) are not only a means of showing the Sikh identity, but they also have spiritual meanings and are powerful symbols of the faith. Most Sikhs, through custom and culture, follow the traditions of the Khalsa.