Overview. Grass can grow in nearly every type of soil and under most conditions because it is chemically treated to ensure germination. Grass seed likes a loose soil with lots of water. There are many different types of grass, and they all like different conditions. As long as you prepare the soil and provide the necessary ingredients for the seed, you should have a successful lawn.
Fescue grass seed is often planted in blends of three to five grass types, often including buffalo grass, perennial ryegrass or Kentucky bluegrass. Grass seed blends increase disease resistance, strength against wear and tolerance to changes in weather. Fescue Grass. Fescue grass is the most commonly used seed for establishing lawns in sandy soils. There are several types of fescue grasses, each with specific climate adaptations and preferences.
Answer by martshtml (300). Any grass will grow in the sand, no one type is better than the next for sand. For each type of grass you want to find a way to add nutrients to the sand. Tall Fescue, creeping Red Fescue, and hard Fescue can be planted in sandy soil. Grass does not really grow very good in just sand. If you place some compost on top to about 2' and then place your grass seeds you will have better luck and just about use whatever grass grows well in your area. Happy Spring! add a comment
there are many seeds which are suitable according to the types of the soil. normally, grasses like tifway grass, bermuda grass, are good for sand soil.crab grass is very good for sand soil. bahia grass which is available in north california is the grass to be grown in the sand soil. add a comment. +1 vote! Tall Fescue, creeping Red Fescue, and hard Fescue can be planted in sandy soil. Grass does not really grow very good in just sand. If you place some compost on top to about 2' and then place your grass seeds you will have better luck and just about use whatever grass grows well in your area. Happy Spring! add a comment.
Mixing several types of grass seed helps lawns become resilient and healthy. Sandy soils are typically low in nutrients and have difficulty retaining moisture. Using the right type of lawn seed can greatly increase the health and vigor of a lawn planted in this type of soil. Drought tolerance is a key characteristic for suitable grass types, because sandy soils increase the effects of drought. Fescue Grass. Fescue grass is the most commonly used seed for establishing lawns in sandy soils. There are several types of fescue grasses, each with specific climate adaptations and preferences.
Having a great lawn is not just a matter of sowing and mowing. Creating a beautiful lawn begins with choosing the right turf grass seed for your soil. Sandy soils present several challenges to lawn-loving gardeners, including poor soil nutrition and excessively rapid drainage, sometimes accompanied by a hot climate. 
Buying Considerations: When purchasing grass seed, consult the label to learn what type or types of seed are included, as well as any other materials. Straight seed consists of only one type of grass and is suited to situations where you want to achieve a certain look or effect. Blends (several varieties of one type) and mixtures (combination of different types) offer better disease resistance and a uniform lawn. 
In terms of grass type, you need to use a drought tolerant grass. Turf type Tall fescues just might be the best choice for your site and climate. If you have a lot of shade, you may consider the fine fescues as they tolerate more shade and are also drought tolerant. There is no magic bullet in tearms of a grass seed type that will germinate best on sandy soils.