2. Choose the type of nursing school you want to attend. In California, there are three types of pre-licensure nursing programs, and two alternative routes to become a registered nurse: 1  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) - Takes 2-3 years. 2  Offered at many community colleges. 3  Prepares you to provide registered nursing care in numerous settings. 1 In addition to a U.S. high school education or the equivalent as as described in Section 1412 of the Board's regulations to become a registered nurse (RN) you should take the following classes in high school, and you will have a head start on your nursing class prerequisites at college:
Statewide, the average salaries for LPN, RN and specialty nurses range between $14,000 and $78,000 annually, depending upon degree earned, years in the field, expertise and size of the health facility. California maintains some large hospitals where the student can find work upon graduation. 
LPN Degree and Education in California In the state of California, the practical nursing program is the quickest route to becoming a nurse. To earn a degree requires one year of courses as well as hands-on practice. You are required to obtain a CPR card, and pass the NCLEX-PN exam upon completion of the course. Checklist to become a California LPN: 1  Earn your LPN Degree, 1 year of courses and hands-on practice. 2  Apply for licensure with the California Board of Nursing ($85 fee) – Have your school send your transcript to them as well. 3  Obtain a CPR card and pass the NCLEX-PN exam.
The California Board of Registered Nursing requires a master’s degree at minimum in the specialty area of advanced practice nursing you wish to work. (The one exception to this requirement is made for public health nurses, who need a bachelor’s degree at minimum). 
EL-MSN programs can take 2-3 years to complete. California Board of Registered Nursing website – Approved EL-MSN Programs. http://rn.ca.gov/schools/rnprograms.shtml#msn. Students should refer to the Board of Registered Nursing to determine eligibility to be licensed in the State of California. A student must successfully complete one of these degree programs to be eligible for the NCLEX-RN licensing examination. Once a student passes this exam they are able to practice as a Registered Nurse (RN).
Welcome to the Board of Registered Nursing. The Board of Registered Nursing protects and advocates for the health and safety of the public by ensuring the highest quality registered nurses in the state of California. Pursuant to the Governor's Executive Order S-12-10, beginning August 20, 2010, the California Board of Registered Nursing will be closed the second, third and fourth Friday of each month until further notice. 1  Notice of Legislative Sunset Review Hearings.
Dear Visitor and Prospective Student Welcome to the School of Nursing at the California State University, Long Beach! The student is the center of our focus,where diversity, internationalism and transculturalism in student and faculty are sought, valued and nurtured. Our graduates are much sought after for employment. 
There are three major educational paths that can be followed to become a Registered Nurse. A student must successfully complete one of these degree programs to be eligible for the NCLEX-RN licensing examination. Once a student passes this exam they are able to practice as a Registered Nurse (RN).
To practice as an. in California, you must be licensed by the California State Board of Registered Nursing (BRN). You must meet educational requirements, pass a criminal background check, and pass the national licensing examination. To apply for licensure: 1 In addition to a U.S. high school education or the equivalent as as described in Section 1412 of the Board's regulations to become a registered nurse (RN) you should take the following classes in high school, and you will have a head start on your nursing class prerequisites at college:
RN LICENSURE Upon completion of requirements for the AS degree in Nursing the student would be eligible to apply to the California Board of Registered Nursing (BRN) to sit for the NCLEX examination and be considered for an RN license in California. 