A: Elephants can only run short distances at a time because of their considerable size and weight. They reach a top running speed of approximately 40km (25 miles) an hour. This is a speed that rivals even the fastest humans. A: There are currently about 600 000 African elephants (including both the Savannah-and the Forest subspecies) and approximately 40 000 Asian elephants roaming the earth. Of these, about 20% are bred in zoos and circuses. In 1979, there were 1.3 million African elephants.
Some old records state around 30 km/hour. But since they are walking on pillars, they can only keep this speed for a very short time. At speed over ap 16 km pH they change f … rom a fast walking to a jumping running, where at least one foot is on the ground.
Best Answer: Was this a trick question. If I figure it out can I get the 10 points please. I am not even in biology, I am just a jo,smow of the street. Elephants do not run. They walk really fast. They can reach speeds of 30 miles an hour. (I forgot the correct term for walking really fast-but it isn't running-It may be sashaying, moseying, or cruising but it is definitely not running. 
Q: How much does an elephant weigh? A: On average, an Asian elephant weighs between 10 000 pounds (4535 kg) and 12 000 pounds (5443 kg). African elephants are slightly larger and heavier, and an African bull can weight up to 13 225 pounds (6000kg). A: There are currently about 600 000 African elephants (including both the Savannah-and the Forest subspecies) and approximately 40 000 Asian elephants roaming the earth. Of these, about 20% are bred in zoos and circuses. In 1979, there were 1.3 million African elephants.
An elephant's top speed is about 25 mph (40 kph). They normally only reach this top speed on rare occasions when they are scared or upset. They normally move at a much lower r … unning speed of about 12 to 20 mph (19 to 32 kph) depending on the species, temperate and other factors. But since they are walking on pillars, they can only keep this speed for a very short time. At speed over ap 16 km pH they change f … rom a fast walking to a jumping running, where at least one foot is on the ground.
At top speed an elephant can travel at 25 miles/h (40 km/h). However their biggest asset is not their speed. Their primary defense is their sheer bulk, tusks and trunk as well as their strength in numbers. Adult elephants have virtually no enemies except humans. Its footprint can determine the height of an elephant. For males shoulder height is approximately 5,8 time the length of the hind footprint (and in the case of females 5,5 times). An elephant’s foot generally measures 40 - 50 centimeters in length and width and has a circumference of about 1.34 meters.
elephants can go up to 25mph   elephants can walk/run 40kmh. Edit. Share to: 1  Fun Facts About African Elephants The African elephant is the largest land animal on Earth, and one of the most intelligent creatures on the planet. 2  Here are some more fun facts about these majestic animals. But since they are walking on pillars, they can only keep this speed for a very short time. At speed over ap 16 km pH they change f … rom a fast walking to a jumping running, where at least one foot is on the ground.
As both of the hind feet and both of the front feet are off the ground at the same time, this gait has been likened to the hind legs and the front legs taking turns running. Although they start this “run” at only 8 km/h, elephants can reach speeds up to 40 km/h (25 mph), all the while using the same gait. At this speed, most other four-legged creatures are well into a gallop, even accounting for leg length. 
Even at fast speeds, it might seem to the casual observer that elephants don't run. Their footfall pattern remains the same as that in walking, and never do all four feet leave the ground at the same time -- a hallmark of running. If an animal's feet are on the ground less than half of the time, Hutchinson said, it meets the kinematic definition of running. But elephants are weird because no matter how fast they go, their footfall pattern doesn't change. They use a walking footfall pattern even at 15 mph, the researchers found.
An elephant can run at speeds of around 25mph which is about 40.2km/h. The size and weight of an elephant can depends on what region it is from. The elephants in Africa are larger and heavier than the ones in Asia. An African elephant is around 3-4 meters tall at the shoulder which is about 9.8-13.1 feet. As for weight, an African elephant will weigh around 6000kg which is about 13,228 pounds.