Origin of the name Hayley: Transferred use of a Northern English surname derived from Hale or Hales (residing in a nook, recess, or remote valley). It has also been suggested that Hayley derives from the place-name Hailey, which is composed of the Old English elements hēg (hay) and lēah (wood, clearing, meadow). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.
Hayley is a very popular first name for females (#1312 out of 4276, Top 31%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#33380 out of 150436, Top 22%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Hayley for girls. Hayley /hay-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Hayley) is pronounced HAY-ley. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Hayley is hay meadow.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Haylee. The name Haylee is a spelling variant of the surname “Hayley” which is derived from a place name. The surname was probably originated from Hailey in Oxfordshire, a county in the southeast region of England. Hayley comes from the Old English words “hēg” (meaning ‘hay’) and “lēah” (meaning ‘wood clearing’).
An excess of the number 9 in this first name makes Haylee a fragile, highly emotional, imaginative, capricious, intuitive woman who is quite a dreamer. She is extremely sensitive, despite her cold and detached appearance which is nothing more than a defence mechanism. 
Haylee /hay-lee/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Old English derivation, and the name Haylee means hay meadow. Haylee is a version of Haley (Old English): form of Hailey. Haylee is also a derivative of Hayley (Old English): place name. Kreatif forms: Halee, Hayleehy, Hayli. Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Haylee and associated names. Prominent related forms of Haylee (#400 the previous year) rated in the Top 1000 are Hailee (#772 the previous year) , Hailey (#51) , Haleigh, Haley (#265) , Halie, Hayleigh, Hayley (#520) and Haylie.
[ 2 syll. hay-lee, ha-yl-ee ] The baby girl name Haylee is pronounced HH EY-Liy- †. Haylee's language of origin is Old English and it is used mainly in the English language. In addition, Haylee is a variant spelling of the English Hayley. A derivative of the name is the English Zaylee. Haylee is fairly popular as a baby name for girls. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only irregular use. At the modest peak of its usage in 2009, 0.075% of baby girls were given the name Haylee.
Haylee is an uncommon given name for females. Haylee is an equally rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Haylee for girls. Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Haylee and associated names. Prominent related forms of Haylee (#400 the previous year) rated in the Top 1000 are Hailee (#772 the previous year) , Hailey (#51) , Haleigh, Haley (#265) , Halie, Hayleigh, Hayley (#520) and Haylie.
Haylee is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Hay-lee. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 400 in baby name popularity for girls with 807 occurrences. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Haylee and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Haylee and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Haylee for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Haylee is a girl name. The name Haylee is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.