An allergic reaction is a quick defense response by your immune system to a potentially harmful “foreign invader.” Foreign invaders can be animal protein, plant protein, dust, preservatives, food coloring or essentially any chemical that your body identifies or tags as a dangerous allergen or antigen. Gluten protein intolerance and allergy is a common cause of leaky gut syndrome, which is often misdiagnosed as an auto-immune condition because the body appears to be attacking itself. Thus, protein from any source is capable of causing allergic reactions in people with leaky gut syndrome.
Causes. If you have wheat allergy, exposure to a wheat protein primes your immune system for an allergic reaction. You can develop an allergy to any of the four classes of wheat proteins — albumin, globulin, gliadin and gluten.
When the food protein is ingested, in can trigger an allergic reaction that may include a range of symptoms from mild symptoms (rashes, hives, itching, swelling, etc.) to severe symptoms (trouble breathing, wheezing, loss of consciousness, etc.). A food allergy can be potentially fatal. Therefore it is advised that people with milk allergy have quick access to an epinephrine auto-injector (such as an EpiPen®, Auvi-Q™ or Adrenaclick®) at all times. To prevent a reaction, strict avoidance of cow’s milk and cow’s milk products is essential.
(June 2013). A milk allergy is a food allergy, an adverse immune reaction to one or more of the constituents of milk from any animal (most commonly alpha S1- casein, a protein in cow 's milk). This milk-induced allergic reaction can involve anaphylaxis, a potentially life-threatening condition. 
From school age on, egg protein intolerance becomes more prevalent. Food protein intolerance can be immunoglobulin E (IgE)-mediated or non-IgE-mediated. Local production and systemic distribution of specific reaginic IgE plays a significant role in IgE-mediated reactions to food proteins. For this reason, the term food protein intolerance is usually preferred to food protein allergy, in order to include all offending specific reactions to food proteins, no matter the pathogenesis.
You or your child may be allergic to only one milk protein or both. These proteins may be hard to avoid because they're also in some processed foods. And, most people who react to cow's milk will react to sheep's, goat's and buffalo's milk. Less commonly, people allergic to cow's milk are also allergic to soy milk. Causes. All true food allergies are caused by an immune system malfunction. Your immune system identifies certain milk proteins as harmful, triggering the production of immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies to neutralize the protein (allergen).
Whey protein is a derivative of milk, so you could experience symptoms associated with a dairy allergy. Not all side effects from whey protein are related to allergies, however; some side effects stem from an intolerance. Being allergic to whey means that your body doesn't recognize the protein and your immune system thinks it is a harmful invader. Your immune system goes into attack mode, fighting off what it thinks could be harmful. While uncommon, it is possible to be allergic to milk and foods made with milk
A. If a glass of milk or a slice of pizza causes swollen lips, hives, or other significant symptoms, you may have an allergy to casein, a protein in milk. Another milk protein associated with food allergies is whey. Some people are allergic to both casein and whey. Most people with an allergy to milk have symptoms which appear when they are infants and outgrow them as they get older. However, some people do not outgrow these symptoms and continue to be allergic as adults