Printer Friendly. Cancel for any reason travel insurance allows the person to cancel the trip for any reason and get a refund of the trip cost. However, it is not really any reason, any time, full refund unconditionally and no questions asked. There are some restrictions, as described below. There are many common reasons, as described below, for which people need to cancel their trip. However, they are not covered by the regular trip cancellation insurance. Therefore, cancel for any reason travel insurance would be helpful in such cases.
Here are some common trip cancellation reasons that aren’t normally covered by Travel insurance, yet are covered by a Cancel For Any Reason Plans. Any of these events (and a lot more) are covered by a Cancel For Any Reason Plan: 1  You want to cancel your trip because you don’t feel safe. 2  For example, Swine Flu or something else is everywhere and you’re afraid to go to Wal-Mart. 3  If this happens, you probably won’t want to go on your trip.
‘Cancel for any reason’ coverage is considered a ‘fail-safe’ by many travel insurance buyers who worry they may have to cancel their trip for a reason that is not covered by trip cancellation coverage and want to recover at least a portion of their expenses. Not all travel insurance plans offer this coverage option. A few plans include ‘cancel for any reason’ automatically: 1  The Elite plan by Travel Insurance Services. 2  The Travel Max plan by Travelex.
TravelSafe Classic Plus. Our travel insurance plan the includes our Cancel For Any Reason benefit! For individuals and families, the TravelSafe Classic Plus offers comprehensive coverage and excellent value, plus a 24-hour emergency assistance number available from anywhere in the world. 
Published by Chris Harvey January 30, 2009. More insurance carriers have been adding a “ cancel for any reason ” to their travel insurance plans. Typically the cost is a 40% – 50% upcharge in the premium for this benefit. This benefit pays a reduced rate for cancellation (50% – 90%) and conditions apply such as insuring the full trip cost, purchasing within 14 – 21 days of the first payment and cancelling 2 days or more prior to your scheduled departure date.
You must cancel your trip at least 2 days or 48 hours in advance. (Of course, if you develop any other covered reasons for regular trip cancellation any time before you depart, you can still cancel your trip and get up to 100% of your non-refundable trip cost back.). There are many common reasons, as described below, for which people need to cancel their trip. However, they are not covered by the regular trip cancellation insurance. Therefore, cancel for any reason travel insurance would be helpful in such cases.
The “Cancel For Any Reason” is just that – cancelling your entire trip for a reason that is normally not covered (e.g., changing your mind). It’s not “Delay For Any Reason” nor “Interrupt For Any Reason”. Any of these events (and a lot more) are covered by a Cancel For Any Reason Plan: 1  You want to cancel your trip because you don’t feel safe. 2  For example, Swine Flu or something else is everywhere and you’re afraid to go to Wal-Mart. 3  If this happens, you probably won’t want to go on your trip.
Regular trip cancellation insurance plans allows you to cancel your trip for covered reasons such as your sickness, death in the family, destruction of house etc. However, cancel for any reason travel insurance plans provides trip cancellation for any other reason otherwise not covered by the travel insurance. Even though it may cost extra to upgrade the travel insurance to cancel for any reason, it is money well worth spent. There are many common reasons, as described below, for which people need to cancel their trip. However, they are not covered by the regular trip cancellation insurance. Therefore, cancel for any reason travel insurance would be helpful in such cases.
1 ‘Cancel for any reason’ coverage may be included with trip cancellation coverage or it may be a selectable option that has to be added to a policy (for an additional fee). 2  This coverage requires purchase within a certain number of days of making your initial trip deposit (see table below). Not all travel insurance plans offer this coverage option. A few plans include ‘cancel for any reason’ automatically: 1  The Elite plan by Travel Insurance Services. 2  The Travel Max plan by Travelex.
No ifs, ands, buts or whats. You can rest assured knowing that if you need to cancel your trip for any reason before your scheduled departure, you can cancel it and receive reimbursement for up to 100% of your unused non-refundable trip costs. Guaranteed. Cancel for Any Reason coverage is optional and only available for purchase within 7 days of your initial trip deposit. 1. 1 For NY residents only: Cancel for Any Reason coverage may be purchased separately from the AAA Allied Group Travel Protection Plan. Please contact the program administrator, Berkely, at 1-800-797-4519 for additional details.