The restoration of the Everglades is an ongoing effort to remedy damage inflicted on the environment of southern Florida during the 20th century. It is the most expensive and comprehensive environmental repair attempt in history. In response to floods caused by hurricanes in 1947, the Central and Southern Florida Flood Control Project (C&SF) was established to construct flood control devices in the Everglades. The C&SF built 1,400 miles (2,300 km) of canals and levees between the 1950s and 1971 throughout South Florida.
Canals and levees are the foundation of the south Florida water-management infrastructure. Although small-scale, shallow canals existed in the Everglades as early as A.D. 300—built by the native Ortona and, later, Calusa and Tequesta people to connect villages to coastal trade routes (Carr et al. The diversion of water from Shark River Slough and Taylor Slough in the southern Everglades has significantly reduced freshwater inflow to Florida Bay and led to hypersalinity in biologically vital coastal estuaries (Fourqurean et al. 1993; McIvor et al. 1994; Nuttle et al. 2000).
Water shaped the Everglades, so changing the flow and availability of water automatically changes the landscape. The current Everglades landscape does not have the size, seasonal pattern, or habitat variety and connectivity to support its historic populations of wildlife. Canals and levees change the Everglades from a relatively stable shallow water environment to fragmented extremes of too wet (deep water) and too dry areas.
The Plan ensures that there is water for plants, wildlife and people. Restoring a more natural flow of water to the Everglades will ultimately result in a long-term, sustainable water supply for south Florida. It will also provide flood control and restore the natural habitat for the ecosystem's plants and animals. This means achieving the right quality, quality, timing and distribution of water in the Everglades. The purpose of the plan is to re-establish a more natural flow of water throughout south Florida, which includes the Everglades marsh, as well as ensure reliable water supplies and provide flood control. top.
Explore the map to the right to view the historic, current and future water flow of the Everglades. Then, follow the flow to learn how the natural Everglades' plumbing was modified and what it will take to restore it. Your journey begins on the partially restored Kissimmee River, then explores Lake Okeechobee before meeting farmers in the Everglades Agricultural Areas.
Brief History of the Everglades. America’s Everglades once covered almost 11,000 square miles of south Florida. Just a century ago, water flowed down the Kissimmee River into Lake Okeechobee, then south through the Everglades marsh to the flats of Florida Bay – the ultimate destination of the pure sheet flow. 
The degradation of the Everglades became an issue in the United States in the early 1970s after a proposal to construct a jetport in the Big Cypress Swamp. Studies indicated the airport would have destroyed the ecosystem in South Florida and Everglades National Park. In response to floods caused by hurricanes in 1947, the Central and Southern Florida Flood Control Project (C&SF) was established to construct flood control devices in the Everglades. The C&SF built 1,400 miles (2,300 km) of canals and levees between the 1950s and 1971 throughout South Florida.
Every few years we get a snapshot of the health of the Everglades in the System Status Report, which was released earlier this month. It shows improvement in the restoration of animal habitat, but there’s still a lot of work to do in getting more water to flow south. Read a conversation with Julie Hill-Gabriel, the director of Everglades policy for Audubon Florida, about the update. Well I think that there are two sides to that coin. No. 1 is that we know that the Everglades, just as all of us in South Florida, have an additional threat from sea level rise and salt water intrusion. But in the other hand one of the biggest solutions that we have is restoring the Everglades.
America's Everglades once covered almost 11,000 square miles of South Florida. Just a century ago, water flowed down the Kissimmee River into Lake Okeechobee, then south through the vast Everglades to Florida Bay, the ultimate destination of uninterrupted sheetflow. 