The continuity of life is based on heritable information in the form of DNA, and structure and function are correlated at all levels of biological organization. In a short essay (100-150 words), describe how the structure of DNA is correlated with its role as the molecular basis of inheritance. Get Answer. 
By convention, the primary structure of a protein is reported starting from the amino-terminal (N) end to the carboxyl-terminal (C) end, while the primary structure of DNA or RNA molecule is reported from the 5' end to the 3' end. In biochemistry and structural biology, secondary structure is the general three-dimensional form of local segments of biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids (DNA/RNA). It does not, however, describe specific atomic positions in three-dimensional space, which are considered to be tertiary structure.
Question. The continuity of life is based on heritable information in the form of DNA, and structure and function are correlated at all levels of biological organization. In a short essay (100-150 words), describe how the structure of DNA is correlated with its role as the molecular basis of inheritance. 
Biomolecular structure is the intricate folded, three-dimensional shape that is formed by a protein, DNA, or RNA molecule, and that is important to its function. The structure of these molecules is frequently decomposed into primary structure, secondary structure, tertiary structure, and quaternary structure. In biochemistry and structural biology, secondary structure is the general three-dimensional form of local segments of biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids (DNA/RNA). It does not, however, describe specific atomic positions in three-dimensional space, which are considered to be terti
Basically, DNA is made of nucleotide bases with some sugars and phosphate molecules. In order to understand modern genetics a person must understand the structure and function of DNA as the molecule of inheritance. written by: Rafael•edited by: Paul Arnold •updated: 2/8/2010. The structure and function of DNA are highly interrelated. From the composition of base pairs to their spacial arrangement understanding the structure and function of DNA as the molecule of inheritance is of paramount importance to grasp modern genetics. slide 1 of 4
For a typical unbranched, un-crosslinked biopolymer (such as a molecule of DNA, RNA, or typical intracellular protein), the primary structure is equivalent to specifying the sequence of its monomeric subunits, e.g., the nucleotide or peptide sequence. In biochemistry and structural biology, secondary structure is the general three-dimensional form of local segments of biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids (DNA/RNA). It does not, however, describe specific atomic positions in three-dimensional space, which are considered to be tertiary structure.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. The bases on one strand pair with the bases on another strand: adenine pairs with thymine, and guanine pairs with cytosine. DNA molecules are long — so long, in fact, that they can't fit into cells without the right packaging. To fit inside cells, DNA is coiled tightly to form structures we call chromosomes.
DNA is a long string of these blocks or letters. Each nucleotide consists of a sugar (deoxyribose) bound on one side to a phosphate group and bound on the other side to a nitrogenous base. There are two classes of nitrogen bases called purines (double-ringed structures) and pyrimidines (single-ringed structures). The base pairs in DNA are adenine with thymine and cytosine with guanine. DNA has a spiral staircase-like structure. The steps are formed by the nitrogen bases of the nucleotides where adenine pairs with thymine and cytosine with guanine. Photo courtesy U.S. National Library of Medicine.
DNA is a big and long polymer made of subunits called nucleotide monomers. Each nucleotide monomer is made of a nitrogenous base, a 5-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and a phosphate group. In DNA, there are four nucleotide bases: cytosine (C), adenine (A), guanine (G), and thymine (T). written by: Rafael•edited by: Paul Arnold •updated: 2/8/2010. The structure and function of DNA are highly interrelated. From the composition of base pairs to their spacial arrangement understanding the structure and function of DNA as the molecule of inheritance is of paramount importance to grasp modern genetics. slide 1 of 4