LOCATION: Taiga, also known as coniferous or boreal forest, is the largest terrestrial biome on earth. It extends in a broad band across North America, Europe, and Asia to the southern border of the arctic tundra. 
Plants Animals Climate Siberian Taiga A biome is the type of habitat in certain places, like mountain tops, deserts, and tropical forests, and is determined by the climate of the place. The taiga is the biome of the needleleaf forest. Living in the taiga is cold and lonely. Coldness and food shortages make things very difficult, mostly in the winter. Animals. Climate. Siberian Taiga. A biome is the type of habitat in certain places, like mountain tops, deserts, and tropical forests, and is determined by the climate of the place. The taiga is the biome of the needleleaf forest. Living in the taiga is cold and lonely.
The temperate deciduous forest biome is characterized by its leaf-shedding trees and its seasons. This biome experiences all four seasons-winter, spring, summer, and fall. The temperate deciduous forest biome is located in the United States, Canada, Europe, China, and Japan.
The taiga is located near the top of the world, just below the tundra biome. The taiga is also known as the boreal forest.the word Boreal was the Greek goddess of the North Wind Birds migrate there every year to nest and feed. The average temperature is below freezing for six months out of the year. Coniferous trees like spruce, hemlock, pine and fir are commonly found in the taiga. Most coniferous trees are evergreen and are specially adapted to survive in this biome.
Best Answer: The taiga doesn't have as many plant and animal species as the tropical or the deciduous forest biomes. It does have millions of insects in the summertime. Coniferous trees like spruce, hemlock, pine and fir are commonly found in the taiga. Most coniferous trees are evergreen and are specially adapted to survive in this biome.
The other two are the temperate forest and the tropical rainforest. The taiga is the driest and coldest of the three. The taiga is sometimes called the boreal forest or the coniferous forest. It is the largest of all the land biomes. The dominant plant in the taiga is the coniferous evergreen tree. These trees include spruce, pine, cedar, and fir trees. They grow close together forming a canopy over the land, like an umbrella. This canopy soaks up the sun and only lets a little bit of sunlight through to the ground.
Taiga Biome Facts. The taiga biome is the largest terrestrial biome and extends across Europe, North America, and Asia. It is located right below the tundra biome. The taiga biome is also known as coniferous forest or boreal forest. This biome typically has short, wet summers and long, cold winters. Precipitation is moderate in the taiga. It gets plenty of snow during the winter and plenty of rainfall during the summer. 
The northern coniferous forest biome occupies a vast area below the tundra, extending completely across Canada and into interior Alaska. The biome is also referred to as the boreal forest or taiga. Compared to the arctic tundra, the climate of the boreal forest is characterized by a longer and warmer growing season. 