H. pylori is a bacteria that infects the stomach and small intestine and is the major cause of stomach and duodenal ulcers. Symptoms of H. pylori infection include frequent burping, bloating, nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain and weight loss. H. pylori infection can cause ulcers, gastritis and stomach cancer. It is diagnosed by a blood, breath or stool test
Pain in the stomach is the most common symptom associated with peptic ulcer. The acid in the stomach irritates the ulcer itself, which typically causes this pain. The pain associated with peptic ulcers can be isolated to one area or it can be felt across the abdomen. Before taking antacids or drinking milk as a treatment for your ulcer, it is important to remember: 1  If your ulcer is caused by the bacterium H. pylori, antacid are not an effective treatment. 2  Drinking milk can produce stomach acid and in reality, worsen the pain of an ulcer.
Bloating, burping and passing gas are natural and are usually caused by swallowed air or the breakdown of food through digestion. You may experience gas and gas pains only occasionally or repeatedly in a single day. When gas and gas pains interfere with your daily activities, there may be something wrong. 
Gas (flatus), burping, and bloating are all normal conditions. Gas is made in the stomach and intestines as your body breaks down food into energy. Gas and burping may sometimes be embarrassing. Bloating, which is a feeling of fullness in the abdomen, can make you uncomfortable. Burping 3 or 4 times after eating a meal is normal and is usually caused by swallowing air. Other causes of burping include nervous habits or other medical conditions, such as an ulcer or a gallbladder problem. In some cultures, a person may belch loudly after eating to show appreciation for the meal.
Stomach ulcers may produce gas and pressure as a symptom when excessive belching is presented. The common cause of stomach ulcers, the h. pylori bacterium, breaks down a natural urea substance in the body in order to survive in the acidic environment of the stomach lining. 
Ulcers in the stomach or intestine are likely to cause burping. However, burping alone cannot indicate the presence of ulcers. Indigestion also gives rise to persistent burping. So it would be foolish to assume that the person is having stomach ulcers only on the basis of burps. Ulcers are classified depending upon where they occur. Gastric ulcers affect the stomach, whereas peptic ulcers are seen in the small intestine. Burping can occur as a consequence of ulcer formation but the doctor also checks for other symptoms to confirm whether ulcers are present in the gastrointestinal tract.
Gas producing bacteria are already present in our stomach but due to H. pylori bacteria that cause ulcers, there is too much build up of gas in the stomach. So, to relieve the stomach from excess gas, a lot of burping may occur. The abdomen hurts when doing mundane tasks and is accompanied by too much burping. Ulcers are classified depending upon where they occur. Gastric ulcers affect the stomach, whereas peptic ulcers are seen in the small intestine. Burping can occur as a consequence of ulcer formation but the doctor also checks for other symptoms to confirm whether ulcers are present in the gastrointestinal tract.
Diagnosis. Peptic ulcers are always suspected in patients with persistent dyspepsia (bloating, belching, and abdominal pain). Symptoms of dyspepsia occur in 20 - 25% of people who live in industrialized nations, but only about 15 - 25% of those with dyspepsia actually have ulcers. In addition to peptic ulcers, a number of conditions, notably gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and irritable bowel syndrome, cause dyspepsia. Often, however, no cause can be determined. In such cases, the symptoms are referred to collectively as functional
3. Recognize the symptoms of a severe ulcer. If left untreated, ulcers can cause internal bleeding and other problems, leading to a medical emergency. 1  Vomiting, especially if blood is present, can be an indication of advanced ulcers. 2  Dark, tarry or pasty stool may also be a sign of severe ulcers. 3  Bloody stools. Ulcers that occur in the stomach or small intestines are known as a peptic ulcers. A peptic ulcer in the stomach is also called a gastric ulcer. Ulcers may be caused by lifestyle factors like diet and stress, or an excess amount of stomach acids. However, the majority are caused by an infection caused by the bacterium Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori)