Number of speakers: 129 million. Often called the most romantic language in the world, French is spoken in tons of countries, including Belgium, Canada, Rwanda, Cameroon, and Haiti. Oh, and France too.
The third most spoken language of the world is English. The countries in which this language is mostly spoken are Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, United States, United Kingdom and South Africa. More than 360 million speakers speak English as their native language.
French is considered the most romantic language in the world. French is spoken in the tons of nations including Canada, Belgium, Cameroon, France, Rwanda and Haiti.French is spoken by more than 1 29 million people.
Arabic – 246 Million Speakers. Not only is Arabic one of the most popular languages but it is also one of the oldest. It is spoken throughout the Middle East and found in other countries such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt.
One of the most commonly spoken languages in the world in 2015 is French, which has an estimated 160 million speakers. Besides being the official language of France, it is commonly spoken in many other countries around the globe, such as Canada, Belgium, Cameroon, Haiti and Rwanda.
Often called the most romantic language in the world, French is spoken in tons of countries, including Belgium, Canada, Rwanda, Cameroon, and Haiti. Oh, and France too.
3. Arabic. Arabic is another widely spoken language, which has an estimated 560 million speakers around the globe. It is one of the oldest languages in the world and is spoken widely in countries of the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia, Iraq, Egypt, Kuwait, Jordan and Syria.
The world's most widely spoken languages by number of native speakers and as a second language, according to figures from UNESCO (The United Nations’ Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), are: Mandarin Chinese, English, Spanish, Hindi, Arabic, Bengali, Russian, Portuguese, Japanese, German and French.
Next among the most spoken languages in the world is English, which is spoken in almost every country around the world and has nearly 890 million speakers. USA, Australia, New Zealand, UK, Canada, South Africa and Hong Kong are some of the countries where this language is immensely popular.