Answers. Best Answer: Oh, we just had a bad spray right next to the house last night... 3:30AM the SMELL woke me up! It will take at least 3-4 DAYS for the smell to dissipate. Trust me, I know! I heard a bunch of coyotes howling very close to the house last night about 2:30am (wasn't a good night to sleep for me!), so i suspect the skunk was defending itself from the coyotes. 
Deodorizing Skunk Odor: If you have items that you do not want discolored or you just plain don't want to use any chemicals to remove the skunk odor, then you're in luck! You can effectively remove skunk odor from your home by following these easy tips: 1  First, clean the source of the odor. 2  If you don't choose to use bleach or baking soda and hydrogen peroxide, then simple soap and water are fine. 3  The soap will work effectively when it comes to removing the oily skunk spray.
Also, the damper the site, the longer the odor will last. If a rat dies near a steam pipe, the body won’t dry and the smell can be horrible for weeks. The odor from a dead mouse may last only a day or two. In fact, there may be no noticeable odor from a single dead mouse but several dead mice in the same area could smell for a few days. A dead rat may smell really bad for a week, but there can be some lingering odor for as long as a month. The obvious solution for an odor problem from dead animals is to find and the remove the animals, then ventilate the site.
How Long the Odor Lasts. How long the smell of a skunk can linger after it has sprayed is not necessarily a black and white answer. Generally, if left untreated, the smell of a skunk lasts anywhere from two weeks to a month. If a skunk has died under or near your home, however, this smell will linger far longer as it will get worse as the skunk decomposes. The scent of a skunk can last up to a month. The moment the smell hits your nose, there is no question of what it could be. If you have ever been the unfortunate recipient of a skunk spray, you know just how long the odor can linger no matter what you do. Luckily enough, there are steps you can take to make the smell fade faster, or disappear completely.
How long does a dead skunk smell like skunk? Update: I'm talking about the smell of the liquid that they spray in defense from their anal glands. I have been passing a dead skunk daily, for about 2 weeks, and it still smells strongly.
Dead or alive, the skunk is one unpleasantly stinky animal. The odor of the skunk lies mainly in its oil, which is incredibly hard to get out of furniture, clothing and pet fur. The skunk oil's pervasive nature allows it to cling to fibers and hair, making it nearly impossible to eradicate. 
It helps if you bath in tomato juice or paste Actually tomato juice and/or tomato paste will not remove skunk odor from anything. 
Naturally, if the skunk didn't catch you skinny dipping at the old swimming hole, the majority of the smell will be on your clothes (don't throw them out just yet, there is help for that), and changing clothes (with a shower or bath in between) will help a lot. Dogs will be bothered by the smell of a skunk, if it was sprayed directly on their nose, for a couple or three days, pawing at it, licking it, sneezing, and snorting until snot comes out of it in a fairly steady stream (which leaves them thristy, too).
Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. The smell of a skunk is an absolutely singular scent. The moment the smell hits your nose, there is no question of what it could be. If you have ever been the unfortunate recipient of a skunk spray, you know just how long the odor can linger no matter what you do. Luckily enough, there are steps you can take to make the smell fade faster, or disappear completely.