Because the electrons in ionic solids are localized (in the ions) these solids tend to be stiff and brittle like covalent solids. As solids they do not conduct electricity (again because of the localize electrons). However, they do conduct electricity as liquids (or when dissolved in water) since then the ions can move. Distortion away from this geometry can only occur through a breaking of covalent sigma bonds. As a result, the melting point of covalent solids is extremely high. They also tend to be extremely hard substances that will break into pieces rather than smoothly change shape. We say that they are stiff and brittle.
A covalent bond is a bond between two non-metallic elements. This means that they share electrons inside the molecules. OR A type of chemical bond in which there is mutual sha … ring of electrons between two atoms is called covalent bond. A Covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms, and other covalent bonds. In short, the attraction-to-r … epulsion stability that forms between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. 5 people found this useful.
Covalent Solids. Covalent solids, also called network solids, are solids that are held together by covalent bonds. As such, they have localized electrons (shared between the atoms) and the atoms are arranged in fixed geometries. Distortion away from this geometry can only occur through a breaking of covalent sigma bonds. As a result, the melting point of covalent solids is extremely high. They also tend to be extremely hard substances that will break into pieces rather than smoothly change shape. We say that they are stiff and brittle.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The reason why ionic compounds are brittle is because the ions in the compound are already held rigidly in place in a lattice due to the strong electrostatic forces of attraction in between the cations and the anions as well as the repulsion in the ions with like charges. Ionic solids are brittle and crack when stress is applied .This is because there are inter-ionic forces of attraction b/w the ion of the solids..When stress is applied the sim … ilarly charged ions come in interaction to each other and forces of repulsion are developed b/w the ions and the solid is thus cracked.....
A network solid or covalent network solid is a chemical compound (or element) in which the atoms are bonded by covalent bonds in a continuous network extending throughout the material. 1 Hardness: Very hard, due to the strong covalent bonds throughout the lattice (deformation can be easier, however, in directions that do not require the breaking of any covalent bonds, as with flexing or sliding of sheets in graphite or mica).
A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. A Covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms, and other covalent bonds. In short, the attraction-to-r … epulsion stability that forms between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. 5 people found this useful.
A network covalent solid consists of atoms held together by a network of covalent bonds (pairs of electrons shared between atoms of similar electronegativity), and hence can be regarded as a single, large molecule. The classic example is diamond; other examples include silicon, quartz and graphite. Covalent bonding corresponds to sharing of a pair of electrons between two atoms of essentially equal electronegativity (for example, C–C and C–H bonds in aliphatic hydrocarbons).
3. covalent but partially ionic. Metallic Bonds and Metallic Solids Metal atoms interact with other metal atoms to form metallic bonds, the bond type foundin pure metals, alloys, and certain intermetallic compounds. The metal cations from a lattice andthe valence electrons form a surrounding ˝sea ˛ or ˝gas.
In a network solid there are no individual molecules, and the entire crystal may be considered a macromolecule. Formulas for network solids, like those for ionic compounds, are simple ratios of the component atoms represented by a formula unit. Examples of network solids include diamond with a continuous network of carbon atoms and silicon dioxide or quartz with a continuous three-dimensional network of SiO 2 units. 1 Hardness: Very hard, due to the strong covalent bonds throughout the lattice (deformation can be easier, however, in directions that do not require the breaking of any covalent bonds, as with flexing or sliding of sheets in graphite or mica).