Foods That Cause Geographic TongueSour or spicy foods can cause geographic tongue. Certain foods can cause your tongue to react in a negative way and make the signs of geographic tongue more prominent and irritating.Spicy foods and sour foods may cause burning or a slight swelling of the tongue. 
Geographic Tongue. Geographic tongue. This is an inflammatory condition of the dorsum or top and sides of the tongue. it takes the form of denudations of the lingual surface (or loss of lingual papillae) in patches of redness that shift in position over hours and days.
Symptoms of geographic tongue. Some of the signs and symptoms of geographic tongue include the following: • The side of the tongue or the top may have blister-like lesions that are reddish in color, smooth and in abnormally shaped patches. These map-like patches may have greyish-white borders. Causes of geographic tongue. The exact causes of geographic tongue are unknown. However, some of the causes and risk factors of geographic tongue are listed below: • A family history of geographic tongue increases the risk of the individual to develop the condition.
Geographic tongue (also known as benign migratory glossitis or erythema migrans) is a harmless condition that affects about 2% of the population. Geographic tongue is typically seen as well-defined, reddened areas on and around the sides of the tongue. 
Symptoms of Geographic Tongue. The telltale signs of geographic tongue are irregular, smooth, red patches on parts of the tongue. These patches may: 1  Have a white or light-colored border. 2  Vary in size, shape, and color. 3  Appear one area, and then move to another area. 4  Come and go or change very quickly in days, weeks, or months. 5  Last up to a year
Geographic Tongue. Geographic tongue (also known as benign migratory glossitis) is an inflammatory disorder that usually appears on the top and sides of the tongue. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC TONGUE.
The cause of geographic tongue is unknown, and there's no way to prevent the condition. There may be a link between geographic tongue and psoriasis — a chronic skin condition — but more research is needed to better understand the connection. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors. 