Amlodipine (as besylate, mesylate or maleate) is a medication used to lower blood pressure and prevent chest pain. It belongs to a group of medications known as dihydropyridine-type calcium channel blockers. By widening of blood vessels it lowers blood pressure. In angina, amlodipine increases blood flow to the heart muscle to relieve pain due to angina. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system.
Amlodipine besylate is a type of medicine known as a calcium channel blocker (CCB). It is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) and a type of chest pain called angina. It can be used by itself or with other medicines to treat these conditions. High Blood Pressure (hypertension) High blood pressure comes from blood pushing too hard against your blood vessels. Amlodipine besylate relaxes your blood vessels, which lets your blood flow more easily and helps lower your blood pressure.
Amlodipine is widely distributed, with a volume of distribution of 16 to 21 L/kg, and is highly protein bound (approximately 93%). It is extensively metabolized by the liver to inactive metabolites. Elimination is bi-phasic, with a terminal half-life of 30 to 50 hours in adults. 
Hypertension. NORVASC® is indicated for the treatment of hypertension, to lower blood pressure. Lowering blood pressure reduces the risk of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events, primarily strokes and myocardial infarctions. 2.5 mg Tablets. NORVASC – 2.5 mg Tablets (amlodipine besylate equivalent to 2.5 mg of amlodipine per tablet) are supplied as white, diamond, flat-faced, beveled edged engraved with “NORVASC” on one side and “2.5” on the other side and supplied as follows:
Adults. The usual initial antihypertensive oral dose of NORVASC is 5 mg once daily, and the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. Small, fragile, or elderly patients, or patients with hepatic insufficiency may be started on 2.5 mg once daily and this dose may be used when adding NORVASC to other antihypertensive therapy. 2.5 mg Tablets. NORVASC – 2.5 mg Tablets (amlodipine besylate equivalent to 2.5 mg of amlodipine per tablet) are supplied as white, diamond, flat-faced, beveled edged engraved with “NORVASC” on one side and “2.5” on the other side and supplied as follows:
The average dose was 5.7 mg in the amlodipine group and 7.8 mg in the felodipine group. Patients had been taking amlodipine for an average of 26 months or felodipine for an average of 11 months (p = 0.00047). Prior to treatment, 18 patients (72%) on amlodipine and 8 patients (67%) on felodipine were taking concomitant CV medications (Fig. 2). After treatment, the number of patients on concomitant antihypertensive drugs decreased to 15 patients (60%) on amlodipine and increased to 9 patients (75%) on felodipine.
Discontinuation of amlodipine treatment results in a slow return of blood pressure to baseline over 7-10 days, with no evidence of a 'rebound' effect. Amlodipine is a low-clearance, dihydropyridine calcium antagonist which is effective for the treatment of hypertension and angina pectoris with once-daily dosing. 
Thus, amlodipine undergoes gradual absorption from the gastro-intestinal tract and is widely distributed throughout body tissues. It is cleared only slowly by metabolism in the liver and so has a long elimination half-life, which makes it suitable for single daily dosing. The clinical consequences of the absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion of amlodipine. Elliott HL(1), Meredith PA. Author information: (1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Stobhill General Hospital, Glasgow, UK
AMLODIPINE (Norvasc®) is a calcium-channel blocker. It affects the amount of calcium found in your heart and muscle cells. This results in relaxation of blood vessels, which can reduce the amount of work the heart has to do. Amlodipine lowers high blood pressure (hypertension). It also relieves different types of chest pain (angina). It is not a cure. Generic amlodipine tablets are available. Amlodipine (brand names Norvasc, Istin) is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) or