The Republic of Vanuatu (previously known as New Hebrides) is an island nation located in the romantic South Pacific. This beautiful archipelago is located east of Australia, north-east of New Caledonia, west of Fiji and south of the Solomon Islands. 
Geography. Vanuatu is an archipelago of 83 islands lying between New Caledonia and Fiji in the South Pacific. Largest of the islands is Espiritu Santo (875 sq mi; 2,266 sq km); others are Efate, Malekula, Malo, Pentecost, and Tanna. 
Vanuatu is a Melanesian island nation in the South Pacific, headquartered in the city of Port Vila. Vanuatu is an island nation in the South Pacific, made up of 82 volcanic islands. The major islands include Espiritu Santo, the country's largest island, followed by Malakula, Efate, Erromango, Ambrym, and Tanna.
The Republic of Vanuatu is an archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia and west of Fiji, that comprises about 80 islands. Background: The Republic of Vanuatu is an archipelago in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia and west of Fiji, that comprises about 80 islands. Of these, there are thirteen major islands, and nine home active volcanoes.
Vanuatu or the Republic of Vanuatu is an island nation located in South Pacific Ocean. Geographically Vanuatu is located. in-between the Coral Sea and the South Pacific Sea. Vanuatu, an archipelago consists of close to 82 small sized islands of volcanic origin. 65 out of 82 islands are inhabited. Inset on the Vanuatu location map shows the cluster of islands which are a part of Republic of Vanuatu. The country of Vanuatu is in the Oceania continent and the latitude and longitude for the country are 17.7500° S, 168.3000° E. The neighboring countries of Vanuatu are:
Major Cities. Geography. Vanuatu is an island nation in the South Pacific, made up of 82 volcanic islands. The major islands include Espiritu Santo, the country's largest island, followed by Malakula, Efate, Erromango, Ambrym, and Tanna.
Vanuatu Map. Vanuatu is a Y shaped chain of 83 islands lying 2,500km northeast of Sydney Australia. The main accommodation is located on the island of Efate, the two other popular island destinations are Tanna Island which is famous for its volcano and Espiritu Santo for its diving.
Satellite view is showing Vanuatu (formerly known as the New Hebrides), a Melanesian group of islands in the South Pacific Ocean, east of Australia and west of Fiji. Capital city of Vanuatu is Port Vila (on the island of Efate; pop. 30,000). The Map shows a map of Vanuatu archipelago with main roads and streets, and the location of Bauerfield International Airport (IATA Code: VLI) and Ulei Airstrip (IATA Code: ULB). To find a location use the form below.
The given Vanuatu location map shows that Vanuatu is located in the South Pacific Ocean. Vanuatu map also shows that it is an archipelago of volcanic origin. The nearby neighbor countries are Australia in the west, New Caledonia in the south, and Fiji in the east. The climate type of Vanuatu is sub-tropical. The capital city of Vanuatu is Port Vila. The government type of Vanuatu is a constitutional democracy featured with representative parliamentary system. Under this political system, the head of the Republic is an elected President; however the Prime Minister is the head of government.