Question: What does it mean that God is spirit?. Answer: The teaching that God is spirit is found in John 4:24: God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth. Jesus said this to a woman who thought that physical locale has a bearing on proper worship of God. The fact that God is spirit means that God the Father does not have a human body. 
1. (Philosophy) the force or principle of life that animates the body of living things. 2. temperament or disposition: truculent in spirit. 3. liveliness; mettle: they set to it with spirit. 4. the fundamental, emotional, and activating principle of a person; will: the experience broke his spirit. 
Spirit. Spirit is a difficult word to define. It is the part of the conscious person, that aspect of awareness that animates our bodies. Biblically it is sometimes used synonymously with soul (Job. 7:11; Isa. 26:9). It is often used in reference to a person’s most inward thoughts (1 Cor. 2:11). Spirit does not have flesh and bones (Luke 24:39).
The English word spirit (from Latin spiritus  breath ) has many different meanings and connotations, most of them relating to a non-corporeal substance contrasted with the material body. 1 Spirit, in this sense, means the thing that separates a living body from a corpse—and usually implies intelligence, consciousness, and sentience. 2  Latter-day Saint prophet Joseph Smith Jr. taught that the concept of spirit as incorporeal or without substance was incorrect: There is no such thing as immaterial matter.
The English word spirit comes from the Latin spiritus, meaning  breath , but also spirit, soul, courage, vigor, ultimately from a Proto-Indo-European *(s)peis. It is distinguished from Latin anima,  soul  (which nonetheless also derives from an Indo-European root meaning to breathe, earliest form *h2enh1-). 1 Spirit, in this sense, means the thing that separates a living body from a corpse—and usually implies intelligence, consciousness, and sentience. 2  Latter-day Saint prophet Joseph Smith Jr. taught that the concept of spirit as incorporeal or without substance was incorrect: There is no such thing as immaterial matter.
A spirit is a force that influences the will of people. A spirit can be an anonymous force responsible for the atmosphere in a meeting of people, or for the mood within a person, it can also be as personal as the spirit of other people who shape our daily actions. It is called a spirit because it relates not to matter but to mind, soul, and feelings. Spirits can be loving, harmless or dangerous, fleeting or powerful, discreet or haunting, helping or hurting. They can inhabitate places, memories, books, or people.
The Lexicons define the Hebrew word Ruach to mean spirit and they define the Hebrew word Nephesh to mean: Breath, Soul, Spirit, Life, Mind etc. for these are its many uses in Hebrew. But the root meaning is breather. A soul is a breather literally. A dead soul is a soul without the spirit. A dead soul is a body. 18 And the result was that as her soul was going out, because she died, she called his name Ben-on, but his father called him Benjamin (Genesis 35:18). 4 The soul that is sinning it itself will die (Ezekiel 18). So a soul can die
The spirit is the element in humanity which gives us the ability to have an intimate relationship with God. Whenever the word “spirit” is used, it refers to the immaterial part of humanity that “connects” with God, who Himself is spirit (John 4:24). The word “soul” can refer to both the immaterial and material aspects of humanity. The soul is the essence of humanity’s being; it is who we are. The spirit is the aspect of humanity that connects with God. Recommended Resources: Created in God's Image by Anthony Hoekema and Logos Bible Software.