It's located south of Russia and north of Uzbekistan, Kyrgistan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikstan, and west of China, in central A … sia. It's geographical coordinates are 48 00 N, 68 00 E Kazakhstan is south of central Russia, north of the Caspian Sea, and happens to be one of the 10 largest countries in the world. 1 Geography of Kazakhstan Kazakhstan is the largest country in the world completely bordered by land. 2  The majority of the country is located in Asia but a small land mass can be found in Europe. 3  The K….
Almaty (Alma-ata) алматы is largest city in Kazakhstan with a population of 1,421,868 (at 1st of August 2010) with about 9% of the countries population located in one city, it is certainly a hustling and bustling place to be. It also used to be the former capital of the country, until 1997 when it moved to Astana. 
LOCATION AND SIZE. Kazakhstan is located in the center of the Eurasian landmass in what is known as Central Asia. Kazakhstan is bordered on the east by China, on the south by Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, on the west by the Caspian Sea, and on the north by Russia. The capital city of Astana is located 1,300 kilometers (808 miles) north of Almaty (the former capital), roughly in the center of the country. To the north, Kazakhstan is bordered by the taigas of southern Siberia (taigas are subarctic forests that border on the harsher arctic tundra); to the south, Kazakhstan is bordered by the Aral Sea and the deserts of
It's located south of Russia and north of Uzbekistan, Kyrgistan, Turkmenistan, and Tajikstan, and west of China, in central A … sia. It's geographical coordinates are 48 00 N, 68 00 E Kazakhstan is south of central Russia, north of the Caspian Sea, and happens to be one of the 10 largest countries in the world. 
Satellite view is showing Astana, second largest city and the national capital of Kazakhstan, located in central north of the country on the Ishim River. 
Kazakhstan Map-Kazakhstan Located to the north western part of China besides the River Ural of Central Asia, Kazakhstan covers total land area of 2,717,300 sq. km and holds a population of 15,284,929 according to the population estimate of the year 2007. Kazakhstan, also known as Republic of Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in terms of land area. It is situated in Central Asia and Europe and borders Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan.
Kazakhstan is the world's largest landlocked country by land area and the ninth largest country in the world; its territory of 2,724,900 square kilometres (1,052,100 sq mi) is larger than Western Europe. It has borders with (clockwise from the north) Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan, and also adjoins a large part of the Caspian Sea. The terrain of Kazakhstan includes flatlands, steppe, taiga, rock canyons, hills, deltas, snow-capped mountains, and deserts.
) is the capital of Kazakhstan. It is located on the Ishim River in the north portion of Kazakhstan, within Akmola Region, though administrated separately from the region as the city with special status. The 2014 census reported a population of 835,153 within the city, making it the second-largest city in Kazakhstan. Astana is located in central Kazakhstan on the Ishim River in a very flat, semi-arid steppe region which covers most of the country's territory. It is at is at 51° 10′ north latitude and 71° 26′ east longitude, and the 50th parallel north passes through the southern parts of the city.
Kazakhstan (/ˌkaːzəkˈstaːn/ ; Kazakh: қазақстан, Qazaqstan), officially the Republic of Kazakhstan, is a country in Central Asia, with a minor part west of the Ural River and thus in Europe. It has borders with (clockwise from the north) Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, and Turkmenistan, and also adjoins a large part of the Caspian Sea. The terrain of Kazakhstan includes flatlands, steppe, taiga, rock canyons, hills, deltas, snow-capped mountains, and deserts.