How to correct bow legs in babies. Although bowlegs are said to be normal in babies, it’s is advisable to see a doctor if the child turns 3 years of age, and the gap between their knees while standing up appears abnormal.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Bowlegs are a condition in which, if standing with the feet and ankles together, the knees do not touch. The medical term for bowlegs is genu varum. The name comes from the fact that the legs bow -- or curve -- outward from each other. Most experts agree that bowlegs are normal in children up until 24 to 36 months of age.
Bowlegs also referred to as Genu Varum or bandiness is a physical deformity which leads to outward bowing of the lower leg in relation to the thigh. The condition makes a person’s knees stay wide apart while standing with feet and ankles together, with the appearance of an archer’s bow.
Bowlegged describes a medical condition known as a varus deformity, an inward rotation of the tibia resulting in a leg that looks like it is bowed out. Both conditions can lead to misalignments of the hip or knee, potentially causing injury and knee pain among today’s active adults.
What causes bowlegs in adults. Bowlegs in adults are usually caused by knee arthritis, or wearing away of the knee joint cartilage. Uneven wearing away of the cartilage, specifically from the inside of the knee, then the knees become bowlegged.
A National Athletic Trainers' Association answered. Bow-legged, or genu varum, is when you have outward bowing of the legs, so that the knees are further apart than the ankles when standing. This is most common in children, but is also present in adults.
What causes bowlegs in babies. It is normal for babies to be bow-legged from birth because of their folded position in the womb. The newborn baby will take a few weeks to be comfortable with fully stretched legs, this its legs will appear slightly bent and bowed during the first days of its life.
Although infants are born with bowlegs, where the knees appear to bow out from the body, the knees tend to straighten out between 18 and 24 months of age. This means that when most children begin to walk, at around 12 months of age, they appear to be bow-legged.