Digestive The grasshopper has a tubular digestive system. Food enters the mouth and is mechanically broken down, and then mixed with saliva by salivary glands. Food is then transported from esophagus to the crop (temporary storage place.) Chitinous teeth-like plates, which grind food, are seen in the muscular gizzards. 
Mechanism of digestion. Digestion starts at the mouth with the mandibles and the maxillae chewing the food. It is also acted upon by enzymes of salivary juice, the salivary carbohydrases which partially digest the food. The caecae secrete digestive juices and pour them into the stomach. The midgut is not lined by chitin or cuticle but by a peritrophic membrane. This membrane protects the stomach wall from abrasions and is fully permeable to enzymes and digested food.
Small Intestine: The small intestine is where most chemical digestion occurs. After the stomach empties the food and juice mixture into the small intestine, the juices of two other digestive organs mix with the food to continue the process of digestion. This is where protein begins it digestion. The stomach lining produce stomach acid (HCl) and an enzyme called pepsin that digests protein. One of the unsolved puzzles of the digestive system is why the acid juice of the stomach does not dissolve the tissue of the stomach itself.
Also, digestion and absorption in the grasshopper occur in the stomach, but in the earthworm they take place in the intestine. Both of these organisms only go through peristalsis, where in a human, reverse peristalsis can occur. On the other hand, the grasshopper lacks a pharynx, which the earthworm has. The digestive systems of the grasshopper and the human are alike in some ways. They both contain salivary glands, a stomach and a rectum. Although the human lacks a crop, gizzard, and typhlosoles. But, the small and large intestine of the human are large enough to do the same work as the typhlosoles in the grasshopper.
Abstract. A phenomenological model is presented that links digestion and gustatory responsiveness for insect herbivores using chemical reactor models for digestion and feedbacks from nutrient titers in the hemolymph that determine internal delays. 
The Process of Digestion. Digestion is a series of physical and chemical changes by which food taken into the body undergoes hydrolysis (addition of water) and is broken down in preparation for absorption from the digestive tract into the bloodstream. Digestion takes place in the alimentary canal
Mechanical digestion involves physically breaking the food into smaller pieces. Mechanical digestion begins in the mouth as the food is chewed. Chemical digestion involves breaking down the food into simpler nutrients that can be used by the cells. Chemical digestion begins in the mouth when food mixes with saliva. The organs produce digestive chemicals (enzymes and acids) that break down the nutrients into simpler forms so that absorption through the intestinal wall and into the blood stream can occur. Mechanical and Chemical Digestion. There are two kinds of digestion: mechanical and chemical.
Confidence votes 38. Most of the digestion occurs in the stomach and small intestine, however some components are harder to digest and that may occur in the large intestine or with help from the gallbladders bile. Physical digestion occurs in the mouth, by a process called chewing, rendering bites of food even smaller. Chemical digestion begins in the mouth (saliva contains enzymes that begin the chemical breakdown process) and ends in the intestines. :)    Mechanical digestion does occur in the stomach along with chemical digestion. The stomach squeezes the chyme and that is considered to be mechanical digestion. 8 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Gastric juice is a high acidic mixture of hydrochloric acid, enzymes, and mucus that begins chemical digestion and sterilizes the stomach. It is secreted by glands located in the middle portion of the stomach that secrete an average of 2,000 to 2,500 ml (which is 8.5 -10.5 cups) of gastric juice a day. Digestion is a series of physical and chemical changes by which food taken into the body undergoes hydrolysis (addition of water) and is broken down in preparation for absorption from the digestive tract into the bloodstream.