A roundel is a circular disc used as a symbol. The term is used in heraldry but also commonly used to refer to a type of national insignia used on military aircraft, generally circular in shape and usually comprising concentric rings of different colours. Other symbols also often use round shapes. Among flags which display a roundel are the flag of Bangladesh and the flag of Japan. Flags for British overseas dependencies are often a British Blue Ensign defaced with a white roundel displaying the arms or badge of the dependency. The same pattern is used for some of the states of Australia.
Noun. 1. roundel-English form of rondeau having three triplets with a refrain after the first and third. rondel, rondeau-a French verse form of 10 or 13 lines running on two rhymes; the opening phrase is repeated as the refrain of the second and third stanzas. roun·del. n. 1. A curved form, especially a semicircular panel, window, or recess.
1 n roundel In architecture, a molding of semicircular profile. 2  n roundel A fruit-trencher of circular form. 3  n roundel A dance in which the dancers form a ring or circle. 1 n roundel A fruit-trencher of circular form. 2  n roundel A dance in which the dancers form a ring or circle. 3  Also called round. 4  n roundel Same as rondel: specifically applied by Swinburne to a form apparently invented by himself.
annulet. armorial bearing, heraldic bearing, bearing, charge-heraldry consisting of a design or image depicted on a shield ... Roundel or Rondel. A roundel is a small circular decorative plate used extensively in Renaissance courtyard s and arcade s often a niche containing a bust. A roundel window is a small, ornate, circular window. Hamilton ... Roundel windows are often called bull's eye, oculus, oeil-de-boeuf, oxeye or circular light. SALTBOX: an architectural form of a house, developed from a one-and-a-half story house with a linhay, the shape is said to resemble an eighteenth century salt box. One of the earlier house forms in rural Newfoundland. (IMAGE) ... ~ , a small circular panel or window, sometimes incorporating a portrait head.
In heraldry, a roundel is a circular charge. Roundels are among the oldest charges used in coats of arms, dating from at least the twelfth century. Roundels in British heraldry have different names depending on their tincture. Among flags which display a roundel are the flag of Bangladesh and the flag of Japan. Flags for British overseas dependencies are often a British Blue Ensign defaced with a white roundel displaying the arms or badge of the dependency. The same pattern is used for some of the states of Australia.
A small circular panel or window. Stained glass roundel: Circular disk of stained glass in a leaded window. Roundel windows are often called bull's eye, oculus, oeil-de-boeuf, oxeye or circular light. Some roundels look like the bottom of a bottle. Roundels are found in corners of rectangular doors or window frames.
Full Definition of ROUNDEL. 1. : a round figure or object (as a circular panel, window, or niche). 2. a: rondel 2a b: an English modified rondeau. See roundel defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 