Meaning of Indian name: Veni. Meaning of the name Veni is 'Krishna Krishna'. Veni is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for males. The name number for Veni is '5'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Veni'.
List of Sanskrit baby names, Sanskrit baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Sanskrit names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Sanskrit baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Veni in Sanskrit origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Mother recognition by a baby. Although babies are able to sense the smell and voice of their mother, but they are not able to make out the difference between their and mother and other adults quite quickly, this takes time.
Name Veni is associated to God/Goddess Krishna. Find qualities of Taurus (Vrushabh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Veni or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Vrushabh (Taurus) with other zodiac signs.
[ 2 syll. ve-ni, ven-i ] The baby boy name Veni is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as V AH-Nay- †. Veni is derived from Sanskrit origins. The name's meaning is another name for the Hindu god Krishna. Veni is unusual as a baby name for boys. Baby names that sound like Veni include Vahane, Vahann, Vaino (Finnish), Vama (Indian), Vanni (Italian), Vanya (Russian), Venu (Indian), Venya (Russian), Vian, Vieno, Vinay (Indian), Vinnie (English), Vinny (English), Vivyan (English), Vonney, Vonnie, Vonny, Vyom, Vamana (Indian), and Vania (Russian).
[ 2 syll. ve-ni, ven-i ] The baby girl name Veni is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced as V AH-Nay- †. Veni has its origins in the Sanskrit language and it is used largely in Indian. The meaning of Veni is 'braid'. Veni is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Definition of Veni, vidi, vici from the Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary. a Latin phrase meaning 'I came, I saw, I conquered'. It was first said by Julius Caesar after winning a battle in Asia Minor (now Turkey). Many people, especially in Britain, wrongly think he said it after defeating the Britons. We use cookies to enhance your experience on our website. By continuing to use our website, you are agreeing to our use of cookies. You can change your cookie settings at any time. Find out more.
Name Veni generally means Lord Krishna, is of Indian origin, Name Veni is a Masculine (or Boy) name. Person with name Veni are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Veni belongs to rashi Vrushabh (Taurus) and Nakshatra (stars) Mrigashiras. Find qualities of Taurus (Vrushabh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Veni or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Vrushabh (Taurus) with other zodiac signs.