Registering with SOCSO Employers are required to fill Form 1 (Employer Registration Form) and Form 2 (Employee Registration Form) for registration with SOCSO. SOCSO will then issue a employers code number to be used in all correspondence with the company. 
The contribution to both schemes the SOCSO and the EPF are compulsory, this means every employee and employer is obliged to pay a certain amount of the employee's monthly wage into these funds. Social Security is provided in Malaysia by SOCSO, the Social Security Organization. At the same time the Employment Provident Fund (EPF) supplys benefits which are predominantly for retirement purposes, but also provides withdrawal schemes for specific purposes.
Every company is required to contribute SOCSO for its employees, whether they are full/part time, permanent or temporary, employment or contract. The Kluang Social Security Organisation (Socso) gave financial aid to a family who lost their sole breadwinner in Kampung Tenglu here. Kluang Socso manager Zanurin Zakaria, who visited the family recently, said the SOCSO presented a cheque of RM1,500 to Wan Zabidah.
Contributions are compulsory deduction from salary, that consist of employee's share plus employer's share to be contributed within the prescribed period. The contribution for any given month is from the salary deduction from the previous month. 
The employer pays a contribution rate of 12% of the workers monthly rate, while the employee contributes 11%. Foreigners holding an Employment or Visit Pass, and whose monthy salary exceeds RM 2500, are exempted from the compulsory contributions. Social Security is provided in Malaysia by SOCSO, the Social Security Organization. At the same time the Employment Provident Fund (EPF) supplys benefits which are predominantly for retirement purposes, but also provides withdrawal schemes for specific purposes.
SOCSO: Contribution Table & Rates (Jadual Caruman SOCSO). A company is required to contribute SOCSO for its staff/workers according to the SOCSO Contribution Table & Rates as determined by the Act. The company will pay 1.75% while the staff/workers’ will contribute 0.5% of their wages for the Employment Injury Insurance Scheme and the Invalidity Pension Scheme. Both the rates of contribution are based on the total monthly wages paid to the employee and contributions should be made from the first month the employee is employed.
1 All employees who have not attained 60 years of age are required to contribute under the first category, except those who have attained 55 years of age and have made no prior contributions before they reach 55 years. ( 2 Amendment Act w.e.f. 1 January 2013). 1 Under this Category, the contribution is paid by the employer for the Employment Injury Scheme. 2  The rate of contribution under this category is only 1.25% of the employee’s monthly wages solely borne by the employer.
(1 Vote). 1  Principal employers are required to contribute monthly for every employee that is eligible according to the rates as stipulated by the Act. 2  The rates are based on the total sum of the monthly wages received by an employee. 3  Types and Categories of Contribution. 1 Under this Category, the contribution is paid by the employer for the Employment Injury Scheme. 2  The rate of contribution under this category is only 1.25% of the employee’s monthly wages solely borne by the employer.
1 Principal employers are required to contribute monthly for every employee that is eligible according to the rates as stipulated by the Act. ( 2 Refer to Rates Of Contribution Schedule). 3  The rates are based on the total sum of the monthly wages received by an employee. 1 Under this Category, the contribution is paid by the employer for the Employment Injury Scheme. 2  The rate of contribution under this category is only 1.25% of the employee’s monthly wages solely borne by the employer.