Damn the Back lights for the keyboard. Mine is an asus and the lights worked for years still can see them when computer powers up. I even foolishly bought a driver program which didn't do anything for me but cause issues. 39 bucs wasted. I sick and tired of BS and no answers. No one cares. If you are referring to the num lock, scroll lock and caps lock light, you may toggle the keys from the keyboard to turn on & off the light.
To turn the keyboard back light on or off, press the f5 key. Figure: F5 key-backlit keyboard key. Other notebook computers. For other older notebook computers with a backlit keyboard, try one of the following methods depending on your model, to turn the backlit keyboard on or off. If the spacebar has a keyboard icon on the left side, press and hold the fn key and then tap the space bar one time. Press the f12 key. Press the f5
A question for ASUS-keyboard backlight. My keyboard backlight is working exactly as designed, this question is about the design decisions. The backlight comes on when the computer is powered up, but then it's turned off by a setting in the BIOS, until I've logged in and the utility to control the backlight starts up. But the light is off when I'm trying to enter the password to log on.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If the letters & numbers on your keyboard looks like transparent plastic, then your laptop has back lit keyboard, but if the letters & numbers looks like it's painted on the key caps, then your laptop doesn't have back lit keyboard. This Site Might Help You. RE: How to turn on the backlight on my keyboard on my ASUS K501 laptop? I have an Asus K501 laptop, and I have never figured out how to turn on my backlight for my keyboard.
how to turn on the keyboard lights, on a Asus G73 OS 7, and I installed OS 8 over it.? Hold the Fn key and press F4 to get the keyboard turned on. The lighting of the keyboard is a function of hardware or software installed by your laptop manufacturer. Sometimes keyboard lights might have been disabled on the laptop.
For the benefit of the doubt, let us assume that your laptop really has a back lit keyboard: Hold the Function [Fn] key and tap the Spacebar once. That will enable/disable the back light. You can easily tell if it's a backlit keyboard because the spacebar will have a keyboard icon on the left hand side. If it has the icon, then your keyboard has back lights on it & it should work. This Site Might Help You. RE: How to turn on the backlight on my keyboard on my ASUS K501 laptop? I have an Asus K501 laptop, and I have never figured out how to turn on my backlight for my keyboard.
Follow the on-screen instructions to change the settings. Hint. You can set the keyboard backlight to automatically turn on and off according to ambient light intensity. If you enable this function, you can also set a time period to turn off the keyboard backlight after inactivity of keyboard operations. Ambient light intensity is measured by the ambient light sensor. 
1 Can i adding a back lit keyboard to asus laptop Forum. 2  ATK drivers ASUS G53J Keyboard Lights Driver Forum. 3  Laptop won't start-black screen/keyboard light stays on Forum. 4  SolvedTV back light won't turn on Forum. 5  Solvedhow to resolve back light problems in lenovo ideapad Forum. 6  SolvedTV turns self off. 1 Laptop won't start-black screen/keyboard light stays on Forum. 2  SolvedTV back light won't turn on Forum. 3  Solvedhow to resolve back light problems in lenovo ideapad Forum. 4  SolvedTV turns self off. 5  Un plug and put plug back in and red light comes on and then goes off again straight away.
up vote 0 down vote. If your keyboard lights flash on when you turn it on, then there is a problem with the firmware. If you use Winflash to update to 214, you will lose the lights. To do it without losing the lights, make sure the keyboard lights are set to off and then update from inside the BIOS using EasyFlash. I recently bought an ASUS N56VM which is suppose to ship with a backlit keyboard. However on startup and when dark there is no backlit keyboard. When pressing the. +. /. buttons, the animation for increasing/decreasing the brightness of the keyboard does appear.