--the Presidential Succession Law of 1947. --the 25th Amendment. . . --. . . and popular culture. One of the most important processes in a democratic government is the orderly transfer of power, especially when the need for change is unexpected and must be accomplished quickly and efficiently. --If a Vice-President becomes President according to provisions noted above, then he is really the president, not an “acting president.”. --If a President loses his Vice President, he can nominate another one who must then be confirmed by a majority vote of Congress.
If the Vice President and a majority of the Cabinet recertify that declaration to the leaders of Congress, the Vice President remains in his role as Acting President and Congress is constitutionally obligated to consider (or to assemble within 48 hours and consider, if not already in session) the issue. The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.
On the other hand, the power of Congress to determine who shall act as President in the cases of removal, resignation, death, or inability both of the President and Vice President is provided for in article Article II, Section 1, Clause 6, of the Constitution. The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.
But, if the president is unable to communicate, the vice president and a majority of the president's Cabinet, or ...other body as Congress may by law provide... may determine the president's state of disability. Should the president's ability to serve be disputed, Congress decides. They must, within 21 days, and by a two-thirds vote of each chamber, determine whether the president is able to serve or not.
The Congress must then assemble within 48 hours if not in session. The Congress then has 21 days to decide the issue. If within the 21 days allotted two-thirds of each House of Congress vote that the President is incapacitated, Section 4 states that the Vice President would continue to be Acting President. Section 2. Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress. Section 3.
The 25th Amendment concerns presidential disability, or what to do with the presidency if the President cannot perform the duties of the president. It is an issue that the Framers only gave the most cursory of thought to, relatively speaking. Another clock then starts ticking. Twenty-one days after the Vice President's second declaration, the Congress must decide if the President is disabled. If the Congress so decides, by a required two-thirds majority of each house, then the President must step aside and the Vice President becomes Acting President.
Section 2. Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress. Section 3
Section 2. Whenever there is a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, the President shall nominate a Vice President who shall take office upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses of Congress.
In other words, in this case, the president himself decides the beginning and end of his own disability. --If the Vice-President and a majority of his cabinet decide that the President is unfit to carry out his responsibilities, then they will so inform Congress, and Congress will decide if they agree or disagree. --If a Vice-President becomes President according to provisions noted above, then he is really the president, not an “acting president.”. --If a President loses his Vice President, he can nominate another one who must then be confirmed by a majority vote of Congress.
1 The death, resignation (it is not clear, however, if an incapacitated President would still be able to resign the office after his incapacity had been declared) or removal of the President. 2  In this case a Vice President acting as President would succeed to the office. The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate, but shall have no Vote, unless they be equally divided.