In emphysema, the walls between many of the air sacs are damaged. As a result, the air sacs lose their shape and become floppy. This damage also can destroy the walls of the air sacs, leading to fewer and larger air sacs instead of many tiny ones. If this happens, the amount of gas exchange in the lungs is reduced. 
Within the lungs, your bronchi branch into thousands of smaller, thinner tubes called bronchioles. These tubes end in bunches of tiny round air sacs called alveoli (al-VEE-uhl-eye). Each of these air sacs is covered in a mesh of tiny blood vessels called capillaries. The capillaries connect to a network of arteries and veins that move blood through your body.
The small air sacs in the lungs where gas exchange occurs are called alveoli. The lungs have many air sacs to increase the surface area of the lungs and increase the amount of gas exchange.
Your bronchioles are some of the smallest airways in your lungs. Inhaled air passes through tiny ducts from the bronchioles into elastic air sacs (alveoli). The alveoli are surrounded by the alveolar-capillary membrane, which normally prevents liquid in the capillaries from entering the air sacs. 
The alveoli in the lungs are coated with a moist film that dissolves air in the lungs. Oxygen diffuses across the thin epithelium of the alveoli sacs into the blood within the surrounding capillaries. Carbon dioxide also diffuses from the blood in the capillaries to the alveoli air sacs. The now oxygen rich blood is returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Carbon dioxide is expelled from the lungs by exhalation. Air is supplied to the lungs through the process of breathing. The diaphragm plays a key role in breathing. The diaphragm is a muscular partition that separates the chest cavity from the abdominal cavity
Inside the air sacs, carbon dioxide moves from the blood into the air. At the same time, oxygen moves from the air into the blood in the capillaries. The oxygen-rich blood then travels to the heart through the pulmonary vein and its branches. The heart pumps the oxygen-rich blood out to the body. These tubes end in bunches of tiny round air sacs called alveoli (al-VEE-uhl-eye). Each of these air sacs is covered in a mesh of tiny blood vessels called capillaries. The capillaries connect to a network of arteries and veins that move blood through your body.
Confidence votes 35. Lungs contain many tubes: trachea, bronchi, bronchus, bronchi oles and At the end of each bronchi ole is a special area that leads into clumps of teeny tiny air sacs called alveoli. Minor edit? 1 Common Symptoms Associated With Emphysema Emphysema is a type of COPD that destroys the lining of the air sacs in your lungs. 2  As your air sacs are destroyed, the surface of your lungs is reduced, and less oxygen reac…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Your trachea and bronchi bring the air you breathe to your lungs. Each bronchus is shaped like a tree, with lots of smaller and smaller branches. The smallest branches are called bronchioles and at the end of these are your air sacs (alveoli). Alveoli are filled with air and look like bunches of grapes! They are about 600 million alveoli in your lungs and they are all covered with capillaries, which is where the oxygen gets into your blood!
Gas exchange in the lungs takes place in the tiny air sacs called alveoli in the lungs. The process of inhalation must inflate the alveoli, but it can only do so because of the presence of a surfactant fluid that coats the alveoli and lowers the surface tension of their walls. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: your answer is a Tiny, delicate air sacs deep within the lungs, where the gas/blood exchange occurs. Oxygen from inhaled air passes through the walls of aveoli and enters the bloodstream while carbon dioxide passes out in the same way when air is exhaled. Toxins from cigarette smoke can break the thin walls of alveoli, leaving larger, less efficient air sacs.