The ribs partially enclose and protect the chest cavity, where many vital organs (including the heart and the lungs) are located. The rib cage is collectively made up of long, curved individual bones with joint-connections to the spinal vertebrae.
The Ribs. The ribs are flat, thin bones that, together with the sternum, make up the ribcage. The ribs provide protection for vital organs in the upper body, including the heart and lungs. The ribs also help to protect major vessels in the upper body. There are twelve pairs of ribs, accounting for 24 total rib bones.
The ribs are flat, thin bones that, together with the sternum, make up the ribcage. The ribs provide protection for vital organs in the upper body, including the heart and lungs. The ribs also help to protect major vessels in the upper body.
The bones of the rib cage are the sternum, the 12 thoracic vertebrae and the 12 pairs of ribs. The sternum is a flat bone that is made up of three parts, the (1) manubrium, (2) body, and the (3) xiphoid process. The top edge of the manubrium has a depression called the suprasternal or jugular notch.
The rib cage is flexible in nature due to the fact that the ribs are attached to the sternum and have a flexable portion made of cartilage. There are 12 pairs of ribs in the human body, for a grand total of 24 ribs. There are the same amount of ribs in a man and a woman.
Picture of the ribcage. The ribcage, also called the thoracic cage, is a bony structure made up of the rib bones and their connective tissues. The ribcage forms part of the body’s respiratory system. It enables expansion of the chest cavity so that the lungs can expand and breathe in oxygen.
Your respiratory system is the system that brings oxygen onto your body and is mainly associated with the lungs and the windpipe bringing the air down from your mouth. T … eh ribs are the bones of your chest that curve round your lungs. They form a cage around the lungs which stops the lungs being crushed.
human skeletal system: The rib cage. The rib cage, or thoracic basket, consists of the 12 thoracic (chest) vertebrae, the 24 ribs, and the breastbone, or sternum. The ribs are curved, compressed bars of bone, with each succeeding rib, from the first, or uppermost, becoming more open in curvature.