Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: agnostic (Noun). A person who holds to a form of agnosticism, especially uncertainty of the existence of a deity. agnostic (Adjective). Of or relating to agnosticism or its adherents. 
ag•nos•tic. 1. a person who holds that the existence of the ultimate cause, as a god or God, and the essential nature of things are unknown and unknowable. 2. of or pertaining to agnostics or agnosticism. 
Not to be confused with Gnosticism. Agnosticism is the view that the truth values of certain claims – especially metaphysical and religious claims such as whether or not God, the divine or the supernatural exist – are unknown and perhaps unknowable. 
Noun. 1. agnosticism-a religious orientation of doubt; a denial of ultimate knowledge of the existence of God; agnosticism holds that you can neither prove nor disprove God's existence. religious orientation-an attitude toward religion or religious practices. 
Part of the Agile, Scrum, XP glossary: Agnostic, in an information technology (IT) context, refers to something that is generalized so that it is interoperable among various systems. The term can refer not only to software and hardware, but also to business processes or practices. 
The Origin of the Term Agnosticism. Thomas Henry Huxley was an English biologist who was nicknamed “Darwin’s Bulldog” for his staunch support of Darwin’s theory of evolution. 
Top Definition. agnostic. An agnostic is a person who believes that the existence of a greater power, such as a god, cannot be proven or disproved; therefore an agnostic wallows in the complexity of the existence of higher beings. 6. agnostic. 1. Strictly, someone who believes that it is impossible to know whether or not God exists. Note that they may still be either an atheist or a theist, they simply do not believe it is possible to prove beyond all doubt that God does or does not exist.
First published Tue Mar 9, 2004; substantive revision Mon Aug 8, 2011. The main purpose of this article is to explore the differences between atheism and agnosticism, and the relations between them. The task is made more difficult because each of these words are what Wittgenstein called ‘family resemblance’ words.
agnostic adjective (COMPUTING). › specialized computing ​relating to ​hardware or ​software that can be used with many different ​types of ​platform (= ​system). agnosticism noun [U] uk /aeɡˈnɒs.æɡˈnɒs.tɪ.sɪ/ zəm /-us.ˈnɑː-/. stə [Noun] u /uk.aeɡˈnɒs.æɡˈnɒs.tɪ/ sɪ /-zəm.us-/. ˈnɑː stə agnostic noun [C]. › someone who does not ​know, or ​believes that it is ​impossible to ​know, if a ​god ​exists: Although he was ​raised a ​Catholic, he was an agnostic for most of his ​adult ​life. Compare atheist. Compare.