In some states yes. A few is NJ, NC, Texas, Tennessee, and a few more. The reason why is because it spreads salmonella. but in America as a whole its illegal to have a pet tur … tle under 4 in. because little children tend to pick up more. So if you want a turtle, prepare to spend a lot of money near the $100s.
Policies & Privacy ©Copyright 2015 TWRA Share Reptiles » TURTLES Eastern Box Turtle Eastern Box TurtleTerrapene carolinaThis familiar, terrestrial turtle occurs across the entire state. Two subspecies are recognized in Tennessee: Eastern Box Turtle (T. c. carolina) and Three-toed Box Turtle (T. c. triunguis). The Three-toed Box Turtle is found in the extreme southwestern corner of the state, while the Eastern Box Turtle occurs across the rest of Tennessee. Description: A small, high-domed turtle (4.5 to 6.0 inches in length) with highly variable colors and patterns. 
For that reason, the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency will not issue permits for pet stores to sell turtles or for people to own turtles. That means it’s illegal to keep them as pets in the state — regardless of whether people find them in their front yard or bring them back as souvenirs from vacation. There are always people who see danger in everyday things. You can't protect people from every danger they could encounter, including bacteria from pets. I think if you live in Tennessee and you want to have a turtle, you should go right ahead and have one. Just wash your hands after you pet him and keep him away from people who have a compromised immune system. The TWRA can be reached at 615-781-6500 or visit them online at www.tn.gov/twra
In true Hollywood style, the success of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles movie has produced plenty of hype about turtles and tortoises. Turtle fans should think twice, though, before getting one as a pet. Besides requiring years (sometimes decades) of specialized care, turtles can also transmit disease. You don't have to touch the turtle to get sick. You don't have to touch the turtle to get sick because Salmonella can live on surfaces. A 2006 study published in the journal Pediatrics found that exposure to reptiles was one of the biggest risk factors in determining whether infants get Salmonella.
Report Abuse. Turtles/tortoises can not be purchased or sold in TN. It is also illegal to own any NATIVE species to TN. It is also illegal in TN to take ANY animal from the wild for a pet! Source(s): My Grandmother lives in Winchester, and I am a turtle nut so I checked out some pet stores
Red Ear Slider Turtle: This water turtle is one of the most popular pets in the world! They are ideal for beginners, are omnivores and as adults, can grow up to 11 inches. Ideal for beginners 12 years and older with adult supervision. These turtles enjoy basking so they require land areas. 
If it is in a pet store where you can buy it, is is legal to be bought and sold. Also, turtles are legal pets in the US, any one can have one. So, yes, it is legal to have a t … urtle from a pet shop. The reason why is because it spreads salmonella. but in America as a whole its illegal to have a pet tur … tle under 4 in. because little children tend to pick up more. So if you want a turtle, prepare to spend a lot of money near the $100s.
As it turns out, it's been illegal to purchase those cute little slider turtles in pet shops in Tennessee for years, but now, courtesy of the Tennessee Wildlife Resources Agency, you can't even keep a box turtle that wanders into your yard. There are always people who see danger in everyday things. You can't protect people from every danger they could encounter, including bacteria from pets. I think if you live in Tennessee and you want to have a turtle, you should go right ahead and have one. Just wash your hands after you pet him and keep him away from people who have a compromised immune system. The TWRA can be reached at 615-781-6500 or visit them online at www.tn.gov/twra