Diagram of the internal structure of a leaf. Palisade cells are plant cells found within the mesophyll in leaves, right below the upper epidermis and cuticle. They are vertically elongated, a different shape from spongy mesophyll cells beneath them in the
Below the upper epidermis is the palisade layer. This is one or a few layers of cylindrical cells that contain many chloroplasts. Chloroplasts are an important part of plant cells because they are cell structures that allow for photosynthesis. Below the palisade layer is the spongy layer, which contains cells that are more spread out, allowing for air pockets. Within the spongy layer are vascular bundles that contain xylem and phloem, allowing for the transport of products of photosynthesis. Together, the palisade and spongy layers are known as the mesophyll.
The palisade layer of the leaf consists of orderly arranged cells. The palisade layer contains most of the chloroplast in the cell. Also the ordered arrangement of the cells minimises the cell wall, thus facilitating maximum absorption of light, needed for photosynthesis. The palisade layer of the leaf consists of orderly arranged cells. The palisade layer contains most of the chloroplast in the cell. Also the ordered arrangement of the cells m … inimises the cell wall, thus facilitating maximum absorption of light, needed for photosynthesis.
The palisade layer of the leaf consists of orderly arranged cells. The palisade layer contains most of the chloroplast in the cell. Also the ordered arrangement of the cells m … inimises the cell wall, thus facilitating maximum absorption of light, needed for photosynthesis. The palisade parenchyma consists of thin-walled cells which are usually cylindrical. These cells contain large numbers of chloroplasts-the organelle used for capturing light and subsequesnt photosysnthesis. The spongy prenchyma, however, contains much lesser chloroplasts, so its main function iot
Next to the palisade layer and making up most of the thickness of the leaf blade is the spongy layer. The spongy layer consists of roundish cells that are packed loosely together and have numerous air spaces between them. In most plants the spongy layer extends down to the lower epidermis. 
1) Upper epidermis. This is a single layer of cells containing few or no chloroplasts. The cells are quite transparent and permit most of the light that strikes them to pass through to the underlying cells. The upper surface is covered with a waxy, waterproof cuticle, which serves to reduce water loss from the leaf. 
n. A layer below the upper epidermis of a leaf made up of columnar cells that have numerous chloroplasts and are oriented with the long axis of each cell perpendicular to the leaf surface. Also called palisade parenchyma. (păl′ĭ-sād′).
Definition of PALISADE LAYER. : a layer of columnar cells rich in chloroplasts found beneath the upper epidermis of foliage leaves —called also palisade mesophyll, palisade parenchyma, palisade tissue — compare spongy parenchyma. See palisade layer defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 