1 Animals are eukaryotic, multicellular and heterotrophic organisms. 2  They have multiple cells with mitochondria and they depend on other organisms for food. 3  Habitat-Most of the animals inhabit seas, fewer are seen in fresh water and even fewer on land. The Kingdom Animalia is characterized by eukaryotic and heterotrophic organisms. They are multicellular and lack cell wall. They depend directly or indirectly of plants for their food. Food is ingested and digested in their internal cavity and food reserves are stored as glycogen or fat.
This kingdom does not contain prokaryotes. All the members of this kingdom are multicellular, eukaryotes. They are heterotrophs, they depend on other organisms directly or indirectly for food. Most of the animals ingest food and digest in the internal cavity. The Kingdom Animalia is characterized by eukaryotic and heterotrophic organisms. They are multicellular and lack cell wall. They depend directly or indirectly of plants for their food. Food is ingested and digested in their internal cavity and food reserves are stored as glycogen or fat.
General characteristics of the Kingdom Animalia are as follows: Animals are eukaryotic, multicellular and heterotrophic organisms. They have multiple cells with mitochondria and they depend on other organisms for food. Habitat-Most of the animals inhabit seas, fewer are seen in fresh water and even fewer on land. The Kingdom Animalia is characterized by eukaryotic and heterotrophic organisms. They are multicellular and lack cell wall. They depend directly or indirectly of plants for their food. Food is ingested and digested in their internal cavity and food reserves are stored as glycogen or fat.
Kingdom Animalia. The kingdom Animalia consists of multicellular, eukaryotic organisms. The eukaryotic cells that make up these individuals have a membrane-bound nucleus and other membrane-bound organelles. Animal cells differ from those of plants and fungi because animal cells do not contain a cell wall. Protists are a diverse group of eukaryotic microorganisms. This group includes mostly unicellular organisms but also has multicellular organisms that are without specialized tissues. Their simple cellular organization distinguishes them from other eukaryotes, such as plants, animals, and fungi.
All animals are heterotrophs, meaning they feed on other organisms or the waste products of those organisms. Members of the kingdom Animalia vary widely, from the tiniest of insects, to the fish in the sea, to land creatures great and small. The majority of animals increase their numbers by means of sexual reproduction. Protists are a diverse group of eukaryotic microorganisms. This group includes mostly unicellular organisms but also has multicellular organisms that are without specialized tissues. Their simple cellular organization distinguishes them from other eukaryotes, such as plants, animals, and fungi.
Plants are all multicellular and consist of complex cells. In addition plants are autotrophs, organisms that make their own food. With over 250,000 species, the plant kingdom is the second largest kingdom. Plant species range from the tiny green mosses to giant trees. When Linnaeus developed his system of classification, there were only two kingdoms, Plants and Animals. But the use of the microscope led to the discovery of new organisms and the identification of differences in cells.
Confidence votes 3.5K. Animals (the animal kingdom), by definition, are multicellular and heterotrophic. Animals cannot produce their own food. They feed on other organismal sources for their energy. They feed on plants or other animals. Thus be their definition of hetero trophic. All animals (whether Chordata, Echinodermata, Porifera, Placozoa, Annelida or Arthropoda) are all heterotrophic and all multicellular.
Protist Kingdom. The Protist Kingdom consists of mostly unicellular organisms that can have characteristics similar to plants, animals or fungi. Characteristics of Protists: mostly unicellular, few multicellular, eukaryotic, can be heterotrophic or autotrophic. Ex: algae, Paramecium, kelp (multicellular).   . A kingdom of mostly Multicellular organisms that obtain energy by breaking down substances in their surroundings and absorbing them. Characteristics of Fungi: mostly multicellular, eukaryotic, heterotrophic. Ex: mushrooms, bread mold (Multicellular) yeast (un