Meaning of name Akshita, Origin of name Akshita, Personality of name Akshita, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Akshita and adorable Baby Photos of Akshita. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Akshita is lucky! 
Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit.
People with this name tend to be very warm and nurturing. They are extremely reliable and are often found taking care of others. They have a deep need to try and create harmony in their surroundings. Unfortunately, this can sometimes lead to getting taken advantage of. 
Learn about name meanings, name origins, name popularity, famous namesakes and more on our Akshita Meaning & More page. Just for fun, see the name Akshita in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Akshita in Nautical Flags page. It describes the name holders inner yearnings, likes and dislikes. Although it is considered a core influence, it is less important than the Life Path or Expression / Destiny numbers because it reflects inner feelings that are kept private and are not frequently exposed to others.
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 7245 in baby name popularity for girls with 16 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Akshita Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Akshita has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Akshita to other names. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit.
Their means belonging to them.. The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses).
The Life Path number derives from the birth date, and represents who one is at birth, and the inborn traits that they will take with them throughout life. It describes the nature of the name holder's life's journey. - Expression number. It describes the name holders inner yearnings, likes and dislikes. Although it is considered a core influence, it is less important than the Life Path or Expression / Destiny numbers because it reflects inner feelings that are kept private and are not frequently exposed to others.
You are good intellectually and require several outlets for your energies. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans.You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. You find the best contentment in life when you own your own home and provide well for your family and loved ones. You have a great sense of responsibility and duty. You are comforting, appreciative and affectionate. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.