Fever. Having a fever means that your body temperature is higher than normal. Something inside your body, such as an infection, has caused your temperature to go up. A part of the brain called the hypothalamus controls your body temperature. Normally, the hypothalamus keeps your temperature at around 37ºC (98.6ºF). This page has information on fever, what it is and what happens to your body when you have a fever. You can go straight to sections on. 1  Fever. 2  Low grade fever. 3  The 3 phases of fever. 4  Who is most at risk of having complications from a fever.
Best Answer: There are four possible answers to low grade temperature. 1. infection. The doctor should be able to discover the infection through blood tests. Once the infection is found, it can be treated with appropriate antibiotic. In inflammatory diseases, the inflammation might cause a low grade temperature. It is the body's own defense mechanism to cause the temperature. 3. Autonomic Nervouse System Dysfunction.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below 98.6°F (37°C) . 
If your low-grade fever is persistent or causes you concern, if you have other symptoms of infection, a weakened immune system, or have chronic medical problems, seek prompt medical care. 10 Reasons to Get Tested for Hepatitis C. Common Skin Conditions at a Glance. Generally, a child is considered to have a fever if the temperature is at or above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit rectally, 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit orally, or 99 degrees Fahrenheit in the armpit.
How high a fever is does not necessarily indicate the severity of the illness causing the fever. 1  Temperature between 98.8-100.6 is a low-grade fever and is not considered clinically significant although the patient may feel unwell. I have a fever. Fever is defined as a body temperature above normal and typically indicates that there may be some abnormal process occurring, such as a viral or bacterial infection.
A fever is an increase in the body temperature above normal. A low-grade fever is a mild elevation of the temperature above normal. Your temperature measurements fluctuate through the day and vary depending upon the site of measurement. Generally, a child is considered to have a fever if the temperature is at or above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit rectally, 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit orally, or 99 degrees Fahrenheit in the armpit.
1 Temperatures measured under the armpit are not considered as accurate and can be as much as 1 degree F lower than an oral measurement. 2  A temperature below 100.4 F (38 C) is considered a low-grade or mild fever. 3  It means that the body is responding to an infection. 
Usually, a low grade fever will be present with initial symptoms, but will increase with the pain and discomfort. If your increased temperature occurs with abdominal pain that is moderate to severe, it is best to seek medical attention. A primary care physician can refer you to a specialist, if needed. 
2. inflammation. In inflammatory diseases, the inflammation might cause a low grade temperature. It is the body's own defense mechanism to cause the temperature. 3. Autonomic Nervouse System Dysfunction. Lupus can sometimes affect the ANS which controls the body temperature. 4