Six-carbon monosaccharide (sugar) that is the primary metabolic fuel in most cells. The large glucose polymers, glycogen and starch, are used to store energy in animal cells and plant cells, respectively. D-glucose is a short form of dextrorotatory glucose. It is one of the two stereoisomers of glucose, and is the one that is biologically active. It occurs in plant s as a product of photosynthesis. In animals and fungi, it is the result of the breakdown of glycogen.
Definition of sugar: A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in -ose. For example, note the suffix -ose in fructose, glucose, galactose, sucrose, lactose, and maltose. Glucose. 1  Very important in animal (including human) physiology, diet and nutrition 2  -. because glucose is the form of sugar that is used by the body for energy. 3  All other carbohydrates, including all other sugars, are converted into glucose within the digestive system (digestive processes).
Carbohydrates are one of the four major classes of organic compounds in living cells. They are produced during photosynthesis and are the main sources of energy for plants and animals. The term carbohydrate is used when referring to a saccharide or sugar and its derivatives. Carbohydrates can be simple sugars or monosaccharides, double sugars or disaccharides, composed of a few sugars or oligosaccharides, or composed of many sugars or polysaccharides. The most common disaccharide is sucrose. It is composed of glucose and fructose. Sucrose is commonly used by plants to transport sugar from one part of the plant to another. Disaccharides are also oligo
Glucose is the simplest monosaccharide and probably the most familiar sugar, especially if you have been in the hospital. In nature, glucose is the sugar that green plants produce during photosynthesis. It is also the main source of energy for cells. Medical procedures often require a glucose IV for recovering patients to regain their strength more quickly. Galactose is found in milk, and fructose gives fruit a sweet flavor
Glucose and Fructose are structural isomers. It is possible to join a molecule of glucose and a molecule of fructose together by removing a molecule of water. This will produce a molecule of sucrose. Sucrose is transported by plants in their phloem. It is also stored by some plants such as sugar cane and sugar beet. 
Glucose. Glucose (Glc), a monosaccharide (or simple sugar), is an important carbohydrate in biology. The living cell uses it as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate. Glucose is one of the main products of photosynthesis and starts cellular respiration in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. glucose. D-glucose is a short form of dextrorotatory glucose. It is one of the two stereoisomers of glucose, and is the one that is biologically active. It occurs in plant s as a product of photosynthesis. In animals and fungi, it is the result of the breakdown of glycogen.
Sugar. Definition. noun, plural: sugars. (1) Any monosaccharide or disaccharide, used especially by organisms to store energy. (2) Any sweet, crystalline solid disaccharide used as sweetener or preservative. Supplement. The term sugar is the generic term for any disachharides (e.g. sucrose) and monosaccharides (e.g. fructose, glucose). Sugars are essential structural component of living cells and source of energy in many organisms. 
Two monosaccharides joined together by a glycosidic linkage is called a double sugar or disaccharide. The most common disaccharide is sucrose. It is composed of glucose and fructose. Sucrose is commonly used by plants to transport sugar from one part of the plant to another. Disaccharides are also oligosaccharides.
Definition of sugar : A sugar is a carbohydrate that is soluble in water. Sugars are usually crystalline and have a sweet taste. Chemicals that are sugars often have names ending in  -ose . Glucose. 1  Very important in animal (including human) physiology, diet and nutrition 2  -. because glucose is the form of sugar that is used by the body for energy. 3  All other carbohydrates, including all other sugars, are converted into glucose within the digestive system (digestive processes).