CONCLUSIONS: Side effects related to prolotherapy for back and neck pain, such as temporary postinjection pain, stiffness, and bruising, are common and benign. Adverse events related to prolotherapy for back and neck pain are similar in nature to other widely used spinal injection procedures.
Side effects and adverse events related to intraligamentous injection of sclerosing solutions (prolotherapy) for back and neck pain: A survey of practitioners. OBJECTIVE: To study the side effects and adverse events related to intraligamentous injection of sclerosing solutions (prolotherapy) for back and neck pain. DESIGN: Practitioner postal survey. SETTING: Postal survey of practitioners of prolotherapy for back and neck pain in the United States and Canada.
Prolotherapy spine injections share risks and side effects with other spinal injections, as it can be a delicate part of the body to treat. Other side effects associated with back and neck prolotherapy injections are spinal headache, bleeding, and infection, though the last two are rare. Depending on your condition and state of health, other risks could arise while receiving prolotherapy treatment. Neck and back injuries should be treated with extra care.
Patients receiving prolotherapy injections have reported generally mild side effects including: mild pain and irritation at the injection site (often within 72 hours of the injection), numbness at the injection site, or mild bleeding.
Ross Hauser, MD. Before looking at Prolotherapy side effects, let’s understand that every medical procedure has risks – but so does living with chronic pain! Let’s look at some of the risks when a person lives with chronic pain.
Side effects and adverse events related to intraligamentous injection of sclerosing solutions (prolotherapy) for back and neck pain: A survey of practitioners. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2006 Jul;87(7):909-13. More Prolotherapy research citations can be found on this page on our site Prolotherapy research.
As with any medical procedure, there are a certain amount of potential risks and side effects associated with receiving prolotherapy treatments. Prolotherapy is a natural form of healing, and can be completely organic when dextrose is used.