The name Axel is the Scandinavian and German form of the old Biblical name Absalom. Absalom in turn is derived from the Hebrew name Avshalom which means ‘my father is peace’ and developed into the name Axel in Scandinavia through the Old Norse name Ásleikr. ásleikr 
In German the meaning of the name Axel is: Father of peace. Hebrew Meaning: The name Axel is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Axel is: Father of peace. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Axel is a Scandinavian baby name. In Scandinavian the meaning of the name Axel is: Father of peace. Swedish Meaning: The name Axel is a Swedish baby name. 
[ 2 syll. a-xel, ax-el ] The baby boy name Axel is pronounced as AH-KS-eyL- †. Axel is an English, German, and Scandinavian name of Hebrew and Old Greek origin. Biblical name: The name was introduced by Scandinavian immigrants into the USA. It became popular, chiefly in the USA, due to the fame of the rock star Axl Rose (1962-). The name Axelle (French) is the female form of Axel. Aksel (Scandinavian), Akseli (Finnish), Ax, Axe, Axell (English), Axil, Axill, Axle, and Axyl are variants of Axel. Axel is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1980s.
In addition, Axel is a variant of the name Absalom (English and Hebrew) in the English, German, and Scandinavian languages. Axel is also a variant of the name Alexander (Dutch, English, German, Hungarian, and Slavic) in the German language. The name Axelle (French) is the female form of Axel. Aksel (Scandinavian), Akseli (Finnish), Ax, Axe, Axell (English), Axil, Axill, Axle, and Axyl are variants of Axel. Axel is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1980s.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Axel in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Axel in Nautical Flags page. Axel is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ax-el. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 145 in baby name popularity for boys with 2777 occurrences. It ranked 11000 in popular baby names for girls with 9 occurrences
Origin of the name Axel: A borrowing from the Scandinavians, Axel is a cognate of the biblical Absalom, which is derived from the Hebrew ‘abshālōm (the father is peace). Var: Aksel, Apsel. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Hello, Guest Login or Register. Hello, Guest. Axel is the perfect heavy metal rock name, thanks to Guns N' Roses' Axl Rose (born William). Axel is a popular Scandinavian form of the Biblical Absalom, who was a son of King David, and is the name of the title character of William Faulkner 's Absalom, Absalom. 
Axel is an unusual given name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#34038 out of 150436, Top 23%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Axel for boys. Axel reached its top position of #136 in the U.S. in 2011, and is currently at #145. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014). Axl (#850 a year ago) is the only other prominent alternative form of Axel (#145 a year ago) . Axel /ax-el/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced AX-el. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Axel is father is peace .