1 Installation of the new flooring-The average price on a square foot of laminate flooring, installed, is between $7 and $11. 2  This assumes that the owner or the installer is also including the costs for the mandatory foam underlay and any adhesives or glues required for its installation. For this discussion, we will consider the materials and costs for the installation of a laminate floor in the average 200 square foot kitchen (measuring 10'x20'). This pricing will assume that the owner will want to keep costs as low as possible, and will NOT include such things as:
The Costs. The average minimum cost to install Formica solid surface countertops is $20.85 per square foot. The average maximum cost to install Formica solid surface countertops is $29.54 per square foot. In addition to the cost of the Formica solid surface countertop, there are some added costs to homeowners who begin this project. Supplies needed for installation include screws, nuts, bolts and adhesives
Generally, retail cost for medium grade laminate material is between $1.50 dollars and $3.50 per square foot, however the cost of laminate flooring and the labor involved depends on both the quality of materials and the area of the country/state you live in. Labor is the part which fluctuates most based on your geography. How much contractors charge is something that varies wildly, from $2 per square foot up to around $4 per square foot. It’s recommended that you check with a few contractors in your area to understand the costs before starting your project.
Generally, retail cost for medium grade tile flooring material is between $1.50 dollars and $3.0 per square foot, however the cost of tile flooring and the labor involved to install it depends on both the quality of materials and the area of the country/state you live in. As such, installation goes from $6 per square foot up to around $10 per square foot. It’s recommended that you check with a few contractors in your area to understand the costs before starting your project.
Average Price Range. Cheap laminate flooring starts at less than $1 per square foot and can cost as much as $5 per square foot. The average laminate flooring costs from $2.40-$4 per square foot. The price is determined, as it is with most products, by the quality of the material. A major part of that quality is the thickness of the wear layer. A: There will be some variation in prices regionally and the final amount will depend on the size and complexity of the project, that said the average cost to install laminate flooring is $1.40 to $2.20 per square foot.
1 Installing laminate flooring is a relatively common weekend project for two people with intermediate-level do-it-yourself skills. 2  Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm). 1 Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm). 2  With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room
1 With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room. 2  Laminate prices are based in large part on how realistic-looking the flooring is; inexpensive laminate may look artificial. 1 Low-cost laminate starts around 90 cents-$2 for thinner flooring (6-7mm). 2  With some additional costs for underlayment and matching baseboards/trim, it can run $450-$950 for basic laminate materials for a 20x20-square-foot living room
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Laminate Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Laminate Flooring ranges between $5.67 - $7.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Laminate Flooring Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.