Definition. A polynucleotide is a polymer, or chain, of nucleotides. You may have heard of a famous pair of polynucleotides called DNA. Its cousin RNA is also a polynucleotide. In this lesson, we'll learn how nucleotides join together to make a polynucleotide strand. Join a bunch of nucleotides together, and you get a polynucleotide. This could be a long strand of DNA in a cell or a short strand used by scientists in a lab. Learn about the structure and different types of polynucleotides in this lesson.
A polynucleotide molecule is a biopolymer composed of 13 or more nucleotide monomers covalently bonded in a chain. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) are examples of polynucleotides with distinct biological function. The prefix poly comes from the ancient Greek πολυς (polys, many). DNA consists of two chains of polynucleotides, with each chain in the form of a helical spiral.
· just now. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. A polynucleotide chain is simply a chain of many nucleotides, which in turn are defined as : A nucleotide is composed of a nucleobase (nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2'-deoxyribose), and one to three phosphate groups. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A polynucleotide chain is a chain of many nucleotides. The reason you don't get any other definitions than that is because that's about as simple as it gets. DNA is connected polynucleotide chain
polynucleotide. n. 1. (Biochemistry) biochem a molecular chain of nucleotides chemically bonded by a series of ester linkages between the phosphoryl group of one nucleotide and the hydroxyl group of the sugar in the adjacent nucleotide. 
A polynucleotide molecule is a biopolymer composed of 13 or more nucleotide monomers covalently bonded in a chain. DNA and RNA are examples of polynucleotides with distinct biological function. Nearby & related entries: 1  polynuclear. 2  polynucleate. 3  polynucleated. 4  polynucleolar. 5  polynucleotidase. 6  polynucleotide 5'-hydroxyl-kinase. 7  polynucleotide adenylyltransferase. 8  polynucleotide ligases. 9  polynucleotide phosphorylase. 10  polynucleotidic.
Definition of THYMINE. : a pyrimidine base C5H6N2O2 that is one of the four bases coding genetic information in the polynucleotide chain of DNA — compare adenine, cytosine, guanine, uracil. See thymine defined for kids
Although DNA and RNA do not generally occur in the same polynucleotide, the four species of nucleotides may occur in any order in the chain. The sequence of DNA or RNA species for a given polynucleotide is the main factor determining its function in a living organism or a scientific experiment. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid) are examples of polynucleotides with distinct biological function. The prefix poly comes from the ancient Greek πολυς (polys, many). DNA consists of two chains of polynucleotides, with each chain in the form of a helical spiral.
Definition of POLYNUCLEOTIDE. : a polymeric chain of nucleotides. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Medical Definition of THYMINE. : a pyrimidine base C5H6N2O2 that is one of the four bases coding genetic information in the polynucleotide chain of DNA—compare adenine, cytosine, guanine, uracil. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about thymine. : a pyrimidine base C5H6N2O2 that is one of the four bases coding genetic information in the polynucleotide chain of DNA — 