Cerebrospinal fluid is produced by the choroid plexus in the ventricles of the brain and contained by the dura and arachnoid layers of the meninges. The brain floats in CSF, which also transports nutrients to the brain and spinal cord. As holes form in the spinal dura mater, CSF leaks out into the surrounding space. A spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid leak is one of several types of cerebrospinal fluid leaks and occurs due to the presence of one or more holes in the dura. A spontaneous CSF leak, as opposed to traumatically caused CSF leaks, arises idiopathically.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) surrounds the brain as well as the central canal of the spinal cord. It helps cushion the central nervous system (CNS), acting in a similar manner to a shock absorber. It also acts as a chemical buffer providing immunological protection and a transport system for waste products and nutrients. CSF Production and Constituents. CSF is a clear fluid produced by dialysis of blood in the choroid plexus. Choroid plexi are found in each lateral ventricle and a pair are in the third and fourth ventricle. Further production also comes from the ependymal cell linings and vessels within the pia mater.
interstitial fluid, an extracellular fluid that fills the spaces between most of the cells of the body and provides a substantial portion of the liquid environment of the body. Formed by filtration through the blood capillaries, it is drained away as lymph.
From Mammalian Physiology and Behaviour (January 2004 - question 1C) Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is formed by filtration of the blood. 
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a clear, colorless body fluid found in the brain and spine. It is produced in the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain. It acts as a cushion or buffer for the brain's cortex, providing basic mechanical and immunological protection to the brain inside the skull. The CSF also serves a vital function in cerebral autoregulation of cerebral blood flow. The CSF occupies the subarachnoid space (between the arachnoid mater and the pia mater) and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord.
Summary. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is contained in the brain ventricles and the cranial and spinal subarachnoid spaces. The mean CSF volume is 150 ml, with 25 ml in the ventricles and 125 ml in subarachnoid spaces. CSF is predominantly, but not exclusively, secreted by the choroid plexuses. Brain interstitial fluid, ependyma and capillaries may also play a poorly defined role in CSF secretion.
Chemistry tests. because CSF is formed by filtration of plasma, same low molecular weight chemicals in CSF are found in plasma. Because the filtration process is selective and the chemical composition is controlled by the blood brain barrier, normal values for CSF chemicals NOT the same as plasma values. Blood Brain Barrier. Tight-fitting structure of endothelial cells in the choroid plexus. Maintaining this barrier is essential to protect the brain from chemicals and other substances circulating in the blood that could harm brain tissue.
Purpose. Cerebrospinal fluid is a clear liquid produced within spaces in the brain called ventricles. Like saliva it is a filtrate of blood. It is also found inside the subarachnoid space of the meninges which surrounds both the brain and the spinal chord. In addition, a space inside the spinal chord called the central canal also contains cerebrospinal fluid. All of the ventricles contain choroid plexuses which produce cerebrospinal fluid by allowing certain components of blood to enter the ventricles. The choroid plexuses are formed by the fusion of the pia mater, the most internal layer of the meninges and the ependyma, the lining of
blood. the fluid that circulates through the heart, arteries, capillaries, and veins and is the chief means of transport within the body. It transports oxygen from the lungs to the body tissues, and carbon dioxide from the tissues to the lungs.