The land the Monarch butterflies live on has been recorded since 1993. In 1996, the butterflies were living on 45 acres of land. Now that the land has shrunk down to 1.65 acres, people want to know what caused this drastic change. The butterfly is also used as the emblem of the North American Free Trade Agreement. As the winter grounds become smaller, the Monarch Butterfly could become rare and even extinct. Andy Davis, a member of the research team recommends that people place the milkweed plant around their homes for the butterfly.
Monarch experts are blaming the warmer temperatures in 2012, which was followed by a cold snap in 2103 as the reason for the decrease in the Monarch’s winter habitat. If winter habitats continue to decrease, Monarch butterflies will become more rare, and could even become extinct. The butterfly is also used as the emblem of the North American Free Trade Agreement. As the winter grounds become smaller, the Monarch Butterfly could become rare and even extinct. Andy Davis, a member of the research team recommends that people place the milkweed plant around their homes for the butterfly.
Monarch butterflies are attracted to most species of the milkweed plant. The butterflies use the milkweed plant to lay their eggs. As the tiny caterpillars begin to hatch, they walk along the milkweed and use it as their only source of food and nutrition. The butterfly is also used as the emblem of the North American Free Trade Agreement. As the winter grounds become smaller, the Monarch Butterfly could become rare and even extinct. Andy Davis, a member of the research team recommends that people place the milkweed plant around their homes for the butterfly.
The most famous of butterflies, the Monarch butterfly, may be in danger of becoming extinct due to a decrease in their population, according to new report in January 2014. The danger comes from the shrinking of the forest ground in Central Mexico, where these butterflies go to spend the winter. The butterfly is also used as the emblem of the North American Free Trade Agreement. As the winter grounds become smaller, the Monarch Butterfly could become rare and even extinct. Andy Davis, a member of the research team recommends that people place the milkweed plant around their homes for the butterfly.
In fact, monarch butterflies are becoming extinct because of this sort of dumping, (the) huge increase in pesticides’ use because of these modified organisms.. We decided to take a closer look at the effect of GMOs on the iconic orange and black butterflies. According to the Center for Biological Diversity, the monarch population has dropped 90 percent over the past 20 years. Every winter, monarch butterflies migrate from the Midwestern United States corn-belt region to the Oyamel fir forests in Mexico.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But even as the butterfly count continues in Mexico…in Washington, responding to a petition submitted by conservation organizations, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service recently announced a year-long review that could mean the butterflies are placed on the Endangered Species list. Monarch butterflies could get endangered species status. January 11, 2015 at 5:23 PM EDT. 129761 129760 129760 Monarch butterflies could get endangered species status Every year, millions of North American monarch butterflies head south for the winter -- but recently their numbers have plummeted by up to 90 percent.
As like most other animals, butterflies are prey and animals and insects rely on them and caterpillars for nutrition. Caterpillars also would be extinct because they are the pupae of the butterflies. Caterpillars consume almost 20% of the leaves, which gives other organisms a chance to somehow get the same nutrition. The Blue Morpho butterfly becoming extinct would have a large  impact on the environment. The food chain and eco-system would be  thrown off. This butterfly is a primary con … sumer, without this  consumer, the producers would soon become overcrowded. 1 person found this useful.
(U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service via YouTube). After conservationists warned that the monarch butterfly's population is declining in a deadly free fall, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service are reviewing a proposal to include it on the endangered species list, the f ederal agency announced this week. It will take the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services a year to review the petition for the monarch's inclusion on the endangered species list. The first step of that process is a 60-day information gathering process.