Day one is the day you get your period. The day before this becomes the last day of your previous cycle. For example, if your period starts on October 6th, that is day one. If your next period stars on the 3 November, the 2nd of November was the 28th day of your last cycle, and the 3rd is the first day of the next one. You count upwards from there until the next period begins-when you start all over again
Report Abuse. The first day of your cycle is the day when you get your period. So that is day 1. You count until the day before your next period, because when you get your next period, a new cycle starts and it would be day 1 again. If you get your period on May 25th, that's day 1 of your cycle. 
Ideally, if you have regular cycles, (i.e. 28-30 days), counting day 1 of your cycle on the day you get your period, you should have no sex after day 10 of your cycle, and then have sex on the 12, 14, 16 and 18th day of your cycle. So, for example, if you started your period on February 26th, 2008, and then your next period started on March 24th, 2008, then the cycle length for that month would have been 27 days. (So you are correct that a cycle from February 23rd to March 26th would have been 32 days.).
Confidence votes 511. Count from the 1st day of your Actual Period From the first day of your last period until your next period, depending on how long your cycle length is. (for example, if your cycle length is 28 days, then the time you start to ovulate is around day 14. but every woman is different). For example, if ur period starts on June 1, then that's Day 1 of ur cycle.
The number of days in your cycle is calculated by counting the number of days from the beginning of one period to the beginning of the next period. If you have a short cycle, for example 21 days, and you bleed for 7 days, then you could ovulate right after your period. 
The day you begin 'bleeding' is the first day of the menstrual. Then the days in between the next first day of bleeding is the length of the cycle, not the length of days that … bleeding occurs. For instance, if you started bleeding on 1/5/08 and your next period starts on 2/1/08, you have a 28 day cycle. (for example, if your cycle length is 28 days, then the time you start to ovulate is around day 14. but every woman is different). For example, if ur period starts on June 1, then that's Day 1 of ur cycle.
The last day of your cycle is the day before your next period starts. So, for example, if you started your period on February 26th, 2008, and then your next period started on March 24th, 2008, then the cycle length for that month would have been 27 days. (So you are correct that a cycle from February 23rd to March 26th would have been 32 days.).
The first day of your period is day 1 and for the purpose of determining ovulation you count forward to 14.If you have a regularcycle this day is the likeliest for ovulation. People that are trying to avoid pregnancy avoid this day and 3 days before and 3 days after for a total avoidance time of 7 days. Report Abuse. Begin with the second day of your bleeding period. Count the days to the start of your next bleeding period. You should include the day of your next period. Or you can count from the first day of your bleeding period to the day before your next period. This is not including the day of your next period. Both of these counting methods would result in the same answer
Your cycle begins on the first day you have regular bleeding. Spotting doesn’t count. For example, Cycle Day 1 is the first day of your period; Cycle Day 2 is the second day of your period, Cycle Day 3 is the third day of your menstrual flow, and so forth. 