The main island of Singapore is about 42 km from east to west and 23 km from north to south. The total land area (including that of the smaller islands) is 697.1 square km. The main island is 617.1 square km. Her uniform temperature and abundant rainfall give rise to the rich flora and fauna that typify a tropical island. Singapore is located between latitudes 1o09'N and 1o29'N and longitudes 103o36'E and 104o25'E, approximately 137 kilometers north of the Equator.
The Land. Singapore is an equatorial country, consisting of one main island and some 63 offshore islands. Her uniform temperature and abundant rainfall give rise to the rich flora and fauna that typify a tropical island. Singapore is located between latitudes 1o09'N and 1o29'N and longitudes 103o36'E and 104o25'E, approximately 137 kilometers north of the Equator.
Natural vegetation in Singapore. Singapore used to be covered with dense lowland tropical r ainforests, with mangrove forest along the muddy coasts and tidal creeks. As settlement increased in the 1840's, forest made way for cultivating of crops like nutmeg, garnlier,clove pepper and cocoa. as a result of deforestation, many plant species, including 60 species of mangrove inhabitant orchids disappeared.
Singapore Geography. The country of Singapore consists of one main island (small and extensively urbanized) as well as over 60 small islands (islets). The middle of the main island contains a number of rounded hills; west and southwest the land is a series of low ridges, while east and southeast, the land is generally flat. (166 m), while the lowest point is the Strait of Singapore (0 m). Singapore is drained by a large number of narrow and short streams, some of which flow into the sea through mangrove swamps, or estuaries. Water reservoirs cover parts of the central area, as there are no significant lakes or rivers. 1  Landforms of Asia.
Abundant tropical vegetation is found, and rainfall is experienced year round with the heaviest rainy season from November January. The main island, only 26 miles long (42 km) and 14 miles wide (23 km), is connected to peninsular Malaysia by a causeway that is 1,100 yards long (1 km). Her uniform temperature and abundant rainfall give rise to the rich flora and fauna that typify a tropical island. Singapore is located between latitudes 1o09'N and 1o29'N and longitudes 103o36'E and 104o25'E, approximately 137 kilometers north of the Equator.
Singapore (/ˈsɪŋəpɔr/ or /ˈsɪŋɡəpɔr/), officially the Republic of Singapore, and often referred to as the Lion City, the Garden City, and the Red Dot, is a leading global city-state and island country in Southeast Asia. Singapore's territory consists of the diamond-shaped main island (commonly referred to as Singapore Island and Pulau Ujong in Malay) and more than 60 significantly smaller islets. Since the 1960s, ongoing land reclamation have increased Singapore's land area, which is highly urbanised, by at least 20% 
At the time of the founding of modern Singapore in 1819, forest covered practically the whole of the main island. Of the original forest area, evergreen rain forest made up 82%, mangrove 13% and freshwater swamp forest, 5%. 
Singapore Table of Contents. Singapore is located at the tip of the Malay Peninsula at the narrowest point of the Strait of Malacca, which is the shortest sea route between India and China. Its major natural resources are its location and its deep-water harbor. Singapore Island, though small, has a varied topography