Celiac disease is a digestive disorder that occurs in reaction to gluten, a protein found in rye, barley, wheat, and hundreds of foods made with these grains. The body's immune system reacts to the gluten and causes damage to the intestine. Celiac disease, also known as celiac sprue or gluten-sensitive enteropathy, is fairly common. One in 133 Americans has the disorder and needs to follow a gluten-free diet. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpetiformis. 3  Iron deficiency anemia (low blood count).
Celiac disease is a hereditary intolerance to gluten (a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye) that causes characteristic changes in the lining of the small intestine, resulting in malabsorption. The intestinal lining becomes inflamed after a person ingests the protein gluten. Vitamin and mineral supplements. People with celiac disease must exclude all gluten from their diet because eating even small amounts may cause symptoms. The response to a gluten-free diet is usually rapid, and symptoms resolve in 1 to 2 weeks.
When people with celiac disease eat foods containing gluten, their immune system forms antibodies to gluten, which then attack the intestinal lining. This causes inflammation in the intestines and damages the villi, the hair-like structures on the lining of the small intestine. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpitiformis. 3  Anemia (low blood count). 4  Musculoskeletal problems (muscle cramps, joint and bone pain)
Celiac Disease (Gluten Intolerance). The inability to digest and absorb proteins called gluten found in wheat, rye, and barley. Celiac disease causes damage to the lining of the small intestine and prevents absorption of nutrients. Also called celiac sprue, gluten intolerance, and nontropical sprue. PubMed Health Glossary. 
Celiac disease -- also known as celiac sprue or gluten-sensitive enteropathy -- is a digestive and autoimmune disorder that results in damage to the lining of the small intestine when foods with gluten are eaten. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpetiformis. 3  Iron deficiency anemia (low blood count).
So, when people with Celiac Disease eat foods that contain gluten, their immune system is uniquely programmed to recognize it as a threat and react by damaging the tissue lining the small intestine, called villi. Things weren’t much different when I was diagnosed with Celiac Disease in 2007. I knew I needed to make a drastic gluten-free change in my life but I felt paralyzed with fear. It was time to face my disease… or let it stay hidden in the dark.
Celiac disease (also known as celiac sprue or gluten-sensitive enteropathy) is a digestive and autoimmune disorder. An autoimmune disorder is one in which the immune system directs antibodies to attack the body. The antibody of celiac disease is directed against gluten, a protein found in grains. Symptoms of celiac disease vary among sufferers and include: 1  Digestive problems (abdominal bloating, pain, gas, diarrhea, pale stools, and weight loss). 2  A severe skin rash called dermatitis herpitiformis. 3  Anemia (low blood count). 4  Musculoskeletal problems (muscle cramps, joint and bone pain)
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, and rye. In some people who are exposed to gluten in their diet, an enzyme called tissue transglutaminase changes the gluten into a chemical that causes an immune response, leading to inflammation of the lining of the small intestine. Celiac Disease Symptoms and Signs. Celiac disease is an uncommon disease in which your immune system attacks the cells lining the small intestine. Signs and symptoms of celiac disease may include: 1  diarrhea, 2  bloating, 3  gas (flatulence, farting), 4  swollen ankles (edema), 5  anemia, 6  fatigue, 7  vitamin K deficiency, and.