Full Definition of GRIZZLY BEAR. : a very large brown bear (Ursus arctos) found from the northwestern United States to Alaska —called also grizzly. See grizzly bear defined for English-language learners. See grizzly bear defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of GRIZZLY BEAR for Kids. : a large powerful brown bear of western North America.
The grizzly bear is a North American subspecies of the brown bear that once roamed the Great Plains. Today, only about 1,000 grizzlies remain in the continental U.S. Identifiable by its distinctive hump and the grayish, or grizzled, tips of its fur, the mighty grizzly bear has a terrific sense of smell and can run at speeds of up to 30 miles per hour.
Veckatimest is the third studio album by the American indie rock band Grizzly Bear, released on May 26, 2009, on Warp Records. The album is named after Veckatimest Island, a small island in Dukes County, Massachusetts. 
The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos ssp.) is any North American subspecies of brown bear, including the mainland grizzly (Ursus arctos horribilis), Kodiak bear (U. a. middendorffi), peninsular grizzly (U. a. gyas), and the recently extinct California grizzly (U. a. californicus †) and Mexican grizzly bear (U. a. nelsoni †). The grizzly bear is, by nature, a long-living animal. Females live longer than males due to their less dangerous life, avoiding the seasonal breeding fights males engage in. The average lifespan for a male is estimated at 22 years, with that of a female being slightly longer at 26.
Scientists do not use the name grizzly bear but call it the North American brown bear See brown bear for a discussion of brown bears outside of North America (in Asia, Africa, and Europe). The grizzly bear is, by nature, a long-living animal. Females live longer than males due to their less dangerous life, avoiding the seasonal breeding fights males engage in. The average lifespan for a male is estimated at 22 years, with that of a female being slightly longer at 26.
Spirit Bear as a Native American Animal Symbol. In the light of day, the spirit bear is a special species of black bear that is mostly found in the British Columbia area of Canada, specifically the islands of Prince Rupert or Princess Royal. It is thought that a spirit bear exists in about ten percent of all black bear births due to a recessive characteristic in their genes. The spirit bear really is not all white. In truth, it is more off-white or creamy in color. The number of sightings dwindled for years due to a lower spirit bear population.
In other words, the grizzly and the brown bear are one species on two continents. Currently, Rausch and others classify three subspecies of the new North American brown bear: U. a. horribilis, middendorffi, and gyas. The grizzly bear is, by nature, a long-living animal. Females live longer than males due to their less dangerous life, avoiding the seasonal breeding fights males engage in. The average lifespan for a male is estimated at 22 years, with that of a female being slightly longer at 26.
Grizzly bear. The grizzly bear, also known as the silvertip bear, the grizzly, or the North American brown bear, is a subspecies of brown bear that generally lives in the uplands of western North America.