Alternation of generations is the term used to describe how spores  reproduce. This means, the spore is able to become a new plant or  organism from itself as a form of asex … ual reproduction. The spore  comes from the original plant or organism to become a new life  form. Advantages-Spores are covered by a hard protective coat which enables them to survive under unfavourable conditions like lack of water and extreme temperatures. But when the … conditions are favourable, the spores grow to produce new plants
Spores are the reproductive cells for fungi and ferns. They are small and light weight so that they can easily be carried by the wind. In, a spore is a reproductive structure … that is adapted for dispersal and surviving for extended periods of time in unfavorable conditions. Advantages-Spores are covered by a hard protective coat which enables them to survive under unfavourable conditions like lack of water and extreme temperatures. But when the … conditions are favourable, the spores grow to produce new plant
EXPERT ANSWER. Advantage of spore formation are: Spore can survive under unfavorable conditions as they are covered by a hard protective coat. Spores can grow to produce new plants and does not require sexual interaction with another organism. Due to their small size and light weight, they can be dispersed easily.
Confidence votes 39. Advantages-Spores are covered by a hard protective coat which enables them to survive under unfavourable conditions like lack of water and extreme temperatures. But when the conditions are favourable, the spores grow to produce new plants. This help them to run their species at any type adverse condition or environment. Thus the advantage is that despite of unfavourable environment, their species will not be demolished. Disadvantages-spore formation process is quite primitive. Alternation of generations is the term used to describe how spores  reproduce. This means, the spore is able to become a new plant or  organism from itself as a form of asex … ual reproduction. The spore  comes from the original plant or organism to become a new life  form.
Specifically, all fungi and some bacteria reproduce through a reproductive seed known as a spore. A spore contains genetic material of the parent fungi or bacteria and reproduces a new fungi or bacteria life form when certain conditions are met. The ability to asexually reproduce is a benefit for fungi and bacteria because of unlimited reproduction potential. That means that one fungi can produce an unlimited amount of spores throughout its lifetime.
An advantage to reproducing through spores is that it can be done  asexually. A disadvantage is that the spores will be clones of the  original organism, leaving them vulner … able. Advantages-Spores are covered by a hard protective coat which enables them to survive under unfavourable conditions like lack of water and extreme temperatures. But when the … conditions are favourable, the spores grow to produce new plants
4. Spore formation is the process of reproduction via asexual reproductive bodies known as spores. Each spore can survive for a long time since it is covered by a hard protective coat to withstand unfavorable conditions such as high temperature and low humidity. Spore can survive under unfavorable conditions as they are covered by a hard protective coat. Spores can grow to produce new plants and does not require sexual interaction with another organism.
Advantages-Spores are covered by a hard protective coat which enables them to survive under unfavourable conditions like lack of water and extreme temperatures. But when the conditions are favourable, the spores grow to produce new plants. This help them to run their species at any type adverse condition or environment. Thus the advantage is that despite of unfavourable environment, their species will not be demolished. Disadvantages-spore formation process is quite primitive. Each spore can survive for a long time since it is covered by a hard protective coat to withstand unfavorable conditions such as high temperature and low humidity. A spore germinates under favorable conditions and develops into a new individual. For example, Plants such as moss and ferns reproduce by means of spores.