The Matterhorn. Situated in the Pennine Alps on the border between Switzerland and Italy is one of the most famous and distinctive of all Alpine peaks. The Matterhorn is a pyramidal-shaped colossus, standing at a skyline-dominating 4478 metres (14,690 feet). The formation of the Matterhorn (and the rest of the Alps) began some 50 to 60 million years ago when the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided, and layers of sedimentary rock that had formed in the seas between them were thrust up above sea level.
Zermatt is a tiny village in the Swiss Alps with approximately 6’000 inhabitants. It’s also one of Europe’s premier ski resorts and swells to some 20’000 guests during the winter high-season. The village is found at the foot of the Matterhorn in the German-speaking canton of Valais in southern Switzerland. 
By Dougald MacDonald. July 14, 2015 - To celebrate today’s 150th anniversary of the Matterhorn’s first ascent, we present 10 fun facts about Europe’s most famous summit. 1. 1. At 4,478 meters (14,692 feet), the Matterhorn is only Western Europe’s 12th-highest peak, but it is taller than Mt. Whitney, the highest summit in the Lower 48 of the U.S., by about 187 feet. 2. The Matterhorn straddles two countries, Switzerland and Italy, and has three common names.
The Matterhorn was studied by Horace-Benedict bénédict De saussure in the late eighteenth, century who was followed by other renowned naturalists and artists such As John ruskin in the nineteenth. century Among the poets of the Matterhorn during these years (1834 to 1840) were Elie de Beaumont, a famous French geologist; Pierre Jean Édouard édouard, desor a naturalist Of, neuchatel who went up there with a party of, friends two of whom Were Louis agassiz And Bernhard. studer
Innovation was an integral part of Walt Disney's character. Matterhorn Bobsleds is not only the first roller-coaster-style attraction at Disneyland Park, it’s also the very first tubular steel roller coaster in the world. In addition, no other Disney Park in the world has a Matterhorn mountain. This iconic attraction at Disneyland Park is indeed one-of-a-kind
The town of Zermatt is surrounded by many other mountains that make this region so beautiful. Here are some way cool facts about the Matterhorn. 1  The Matterhorn is 14, 691 feet high. 2  It was first climbed in 1865 by Edward Whymper and four of the seven men died during the descent. 3  The mountain had four sides that each face one of the four compass points. 1 It was first climbed in 1865 by Edward Whymper and four of the seven men died during the descent. 2  The mountain had four sides that each face one of the four compass points. 3  There is a bobsled ride at Disneyland that was constructed to look and feel like the Matterhorn, which opened in 1959.
The matterhorn was first climbed by the famous mountain climber Matt Rustuf. it got its name from Matt rustuf from MATTerhorn. it have the least snow on top of its mountain compared to every other mountain in the world. In one spot of the mountain gold was found but only a small amount. 
The first ascent of the Matterhorn was finally made in 1865 from Zermatt by a party led by Edward Whymper but ended disastrously when four of its members fell to their deaths on the descent. That climb and disaster, portrayed in several films, marked the end of the golden age of alpinism. Among the poets of the Matterhorn during these years (1834 to 1840) were Elie de Beaumont, a famous French geologist; Pierre Jean Édouard édouard, desor a naturalist Of, neuchatel who went up there with a party of, friends two of whom Were Louis agassiz And Bernhard. studer
The Matterhorn is considered one of the highest mountains in Switzerland with an average height of over 4,000 meters. Matterhorn is a mountain in the west part of the Alps mountain range, called the Pennine Alps. The peak height of the Matterhorn is 14,692 feet and it falls on the border of Switzerland and Italy. The Matterhorn is a German name that means Meadow peak in English. 