Daoudy and Frenken put the length of the Euphrates from the source of the Murat River to the confluence with the Tigris at 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi), of which 1,230 kilometres (760 mi) falls in Turkey, 710 kilometres (440 mi) in Syria and 1,060 kilometres (660 mi) in Iraq. The Euphrates is the longest river of Western Asia. It emerges from the confluence of the Kara Su or Western Euphrates (450 kilometres (280 mi)) and the Murat Su or Eastern Euphrates (650 kilometres (400 mi)) 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) upstream from the town of Keban in southeastern Turkey.
The annual flow of the tributaries of the Tigris from Iran to Iraq is 10 km 3. Turkey finds itself in a strategically strong position as the only country in the Euphrates Tigris River Basin to enjoy abundant surface water and groundwater resources. The Syrian Arab Republic depends heavily on the water of the Euphrates. Table 2 shows the large dams in the Euphrates Tigris River Basin, i.e. dams with a height of more than 15 metres or with a height of 5 15 metres and a reservoir capacity larger than 3 million m 3 according to the International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD).
The Tigris is 1,850 km long, rising in the Taurus Mountains of eastern Turkey about 25 km southeast of the city of Elazig and about 30 km from the headwaters of the Euphrates. The river then flows for 400 km through Turkish territory before becoming the border between Syria and Turkey. 
The total area equipped for irrigation in the Euphrates Tigris River Basin is estimated to be around 6.5 7 million ha, of which Iraq accounts for approximately 53 percent, the Islamic Republic of Iran for 18 percent, Turkey for 15 percent and the Syrian Arab Republic for 14 percent. Table 2 shows the large dams in the Euphrates Tigris River Basin, i.e. dams with a height of more than 15 metres or with a height of 5 15 metres and a reservoir capacity larger than 3 million m 3 according to the International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD).
The 2 rivers of Mesopotamia are the Tigris and the Euphrates (Dijla and Furat, in Arabic). The Euphrates is the one on the left (west) in maps and the Tigris is the one closer to Iran -- to the east of modern Iraq. Today, the Tigris and Euphrates join up in the south to flow into the Persian Gulf. 1  Major Ancient Rivers.
Together with the Tigris, it is one of the two defining rivers of Mesopotamia. Originating in eastern Turkey, the Euphrates flows through Syria and Iraq to join the Tigris in the Shatt al-Arab, which empties into the Persian Gulf. The Euphrates is the longest river of Western Asia. It emerges from the confluence of the Kara Su or Western Euphrates (450 kilometres (280 mi)) and the Murat Su or Eastern Euphrates (650 kilometres (400 mi)) 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) upstream from the town of Keban in southeastern Turkey.
TIGRIS/EUPHRATES RIVER VALLEY CIVILIZATION. Mesopotamia an area geographically located between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. Mesopotamia means the land between two rivers. Mesopotamia began as urban societies in southern Iraq in 5000 BC, and ends in the 6th century BC. Source: World History: Ancient Civilizations. There was never a regular supple of water in Mesopotamia but the soil was so enriched over the years by the layers of silt which is material deposited by the two rivers. The valley between the Tigris and the Euphrates River was known as the land between the rivers in Greek. An arc of land from the Mediterranean Sea to the Persian Gulf called the Fertile Crescent had rich soil and abundant crops to sustain life in the early civilization
The system is part of the Palearctic Tigris–Euphrates ecoregion, which includes Iraq and parts of Turkey, Syria, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Jordan. The Tigris and Euphrates, with their tributaries, form a major river system in Western Asia. From sources in the Taurus mountains of eastern Turkey they flow by/through Syria through Iraq into the Persian Gulf