By Psych Central Staff ~ 3 min read. Histrionic personality disorder is characterized by a long-standing pattern of attention seeking behavior and extreme emotionality. Someone with histrionic personality disorder wants to be the center of attention in any group of people, and feel uncomfortable when they are not. While often lively, interesting and sometimes dramatic, they have difficulty when people aren’t focused exclusively on them. Symptoms of Histrionic Personality Disorder. A pervasive pattern of excessive emotionality and attention seeking, beginning by early adulthood and present in a variety of contexts, as indicated by five (or more) of the following: 1  Is uncomfortable in situations in which he or she is not the center of attention.
Histrionic Personality Disorder. Histrionic Personality Disorder is characterized by constant attention-seeking, emotional overreaction, and suggestibility. This personality's tendency to over-dramatize may impair relationships and lead to depression, but sufferers are often high-functioning. 1  Definition. 2  Symptoms. 3  Causes. 
Histrionic personality disorder (HPD) is defined by the American Psychiatric Association as a personality disorder characterized by a pattern of excessive attention-seeking emotions, usually beginning in early adulthood, including inappropriately seductive behavior and an excessive need for approval. HPD lies in the dramatic cluster of personality disorders. People with HPD have a high need for attention, make loud and inappropriate appearances, exaggerate their behaviors and emotions, and crave stimulation.
People with histrionic personality disorder (HPD) behave in highly emotional and dramatic ways in hopes of drawing attention to themselves. Everyone likes attention and most everyone wants to look attractive. These are normal desires, but people with HPD take this to the extreme. That person may have histrionic personality disorder. People with histrionic personality disorder will try a variety of tactics to garner the attention of a room, including: 1  Cause some sort of drama. 2  Flirt and talk loudly. 3  Tell stories in engaging and interesting ways.
a personality disorder characterized by dramatic, attention-seeking, overly reactive, and intensely expressed behavior. Individuals with this disorder are prone to emotional display, such as angry outbursts and tantrums. a disorder characterized by dramatic, reactive, and intensely exaggerated behavior, which is typically self-centered. It results in severe disturbance in interpersonal relationships that can lead to psychosomatic disorders, depression, alcoholism, and drug dependency.
Definition. Histrionic personality disorder, often abbreviated as HPD, is a type of personality disorder in which the affected individual displays an enduring pattern of attention-seeking and excessively dramatic behaviors beginning in early adulthood and present across a broad range of situations. More specifically, HPD is classified as a Cluster B (dramatic, emotional, or erratic) personality disorder. The personality disorders which comprise Cluster B include histrionic, antisocial, borderline, and narcissistic.
histrionic personality disorder, a disorder characterized by dramatic, reactive, and intensely exaggerated behavior, which is typically self-centered. It results in severe disturbance in interpersonal relationships that can lead to psychosomatic disorders, depression, alcoholism, and drug dependency.
Histrionic personality disorder is one of a group of conditions called Cluster B or dramatic personality disorders. People with these disorders have intense, unstable emotions and distorted self-images. For people with histrionic personality disorder, their self-esteem depends on the approval of others and does not arise from a true feeling of self-worth.
Hysterical personality disorder Psychiatry A state characterized by '… pervasive and excessive emotionality and attention-seeking behavior ', which begins by early adulthood, and is present in various contexts; HPD is diagnosed by the finding of 5 or more of a list of criteria. a disorder characterized by dramatic, reactive, and intensely exaggerated behavior, which is typically self-centered. It results in severe disturbance in interpersonal relationships that can lead to psychosomatic disorders, depression, alcoholism, and drug dependency.