Healthy Pet Deductible. Embrace is the only pet insurance plan that reduces your pet's annual deductible automatically by $50 each year that you don't receive a claim reimbursement. The Healthy Pet Deductible feature is included at no charge with every Embrace policy. Pet Name: Zip Code: An annual deductible is the simplest type. You pay it just once per policy year for each pet. With an annual deductible it does not matter how many times you go to the veterinarian each policy year, you still only have to meet it once.
You will never reach that annual amount. Find a better policy with low deductible under $1000 with higher monthly payments. $30 is your share of the co-payment or if you reach that $7500 they will pay 30% of your medical costs. What a terrible insurance. Best Answer: Annual deductible means the insurance will begin to pay after you have paid $7,500 out of pocket -- with the exception of certain routine medical events, such as check-ups. Source(s): Yirmiyahu · 3 years ago. Thumbs up.
For those of you who do thorough research when shopping for a pet insurance provider, you have probably noticed that there are different deductible options available. Typically, your options for a policy deductible are either per-incident, per-claim, or annual. 
If you've ever had human health insurance or car insurance, you most likely know what a deductible is. Well, pet insurance typically has deductibles as well. However, the type can vary quite dramatically. Pet insurance can have annual deductibles, per incident deductibles, per illness category deductibles, or per condition deductibles.
Per condition deductible: This is somewhat different than a per incident deductible in that you only have to satisfy one deductible per condition. Say, for example, your pet develops diabetes at age four and you are bringing him or her in to the veterinarian to get meds every few months. However, the type can vary quite dramatically. Pet insurance can have annual deductibles, per incident deductibles, per illness category deductibles, or per condition deductibles.
Co-insurance (sometimes called 'co-pay') is the portion of the pet insurance claim that you are responsible for. With Petsecure pet health insurance, you pay 20%, and Petsecure covers up to 80% of your veterinary fees. Should your dog or cat need to visit the veterinarian, you pay the full amount of your bill at the office and then submit a completed claim form to us. Petsecure pet health insurance will reimburse you for up to 80% of the costs of care and veterinary services.
In general, deductibles are put in place by insurance providers to limit the frequency of insurance claims. In most cases, the frequency of claims increase as a pet becomes older and this is why some pet insurance providers increase the deductibles as the pet ages or have an annual deductible that must be met each year.
Our deductible is also per-condition (as opposed to an annual deductible) which means that if a pet develops a chronic condition, once the deductible is met, treatments for that condition will be covered at 90%* of cost for the life of your pet while they are enrolled with Trupanion. In most cases, the frequency of claims increase as a pet becomes older and this is why some pet insurance providers increase the deductibles as the pet ages or have an annual deductible that must be met each year.
The annual deductible is the aggregate maximum amount that the insurance policy requires the insured(s) to pay over the course of a year in deductibles. Stated otherwise, a deductible will normally be incurred for each physician's visit, medical test, or other procedure. 
The deductible is the fixed amount that you pay after your co-insurance. with Petsecure's Secure For Life™ plans, you only have to pay one deductible per year, no matter how many pet insurance claims you make in that year, and only if you need to make a claim. Should your dog or cat need to visit the veterinarian, you pay the full amount of your bill at the office and then submit a completed claim form to us. Petsecure pet health insurance will reimburse you for up to 80% of the costs of care and veterinary services.