10. EIGRP is a hybrid protocol because it take both link-state and distance vector features. It keep record of entry topology(which is link state feature) but its send update to only neighbour router(which is distance vector feature). 
Re: EIGRP vs OSPF. I'm not sure posting a table that is clearly made by a competitor of Cisco to disparage EIGRP is helpful in a CCDA study forum. But allow me to comment: Standard: EIGRP has been submitted to the IETF as a standard routing protocol. 
EIGRP – History. Posted by admin on 4 September 2011, 11:51 pm. EIGRP History. Before EIGRP hit our scenes we had IGRP, Interior Gatway Routing Protocol.Cisco developed IGRP in the mid-1980s as an answer to the limitations of RIP, the most significant of which are the hop count metric and the 15-hop network size.
Introduction. Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is an interior gateway protocol suited for many different topologies and media. In a well designed network, EIGRP scales well and provides extremely quick convergence times with minimal network traffic. 
What are some of the limitations of RIP? - 15 hops max can mark distant networks as unreachable-Periodic routing updates consume bandwidth even if no changes have occurred Updates passed from router to router take time and slow convergence, which can lead to routing loops. The _________ metric is a static value based on the type of exit interface. Delay. The default value is 20,000 microseconds for Serial interfaces and 100 microseconds for Fast Ethernet interfaces.
Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is an advanced distance-vector routing protocol that is used on a computer network to help automate routing decisions and configuration. The protocol was designed by Cisco Systems as a proprietary protocol, available only on Cisco routers. 
An exploration of Software-Defined Networking (SDN) technologies, network virtualization fundamentals, and the latest developments for both – helping IT pros adapt them to a modern hybrid network architecture. You forgot to provide an Email Address. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. Using EIGRP, a router keeps a copy of its neighbor's routing tables.
Download Software. Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is a unique Cisco innovation. Highly valued for its ease of deployment and fast convergence, EIGRP is commonly used in many large Enterprise networks. 
Cisco administration 101: What you need to know about EIGRP. Enhanced Interior Gateway Routing Protocol (EIGRP) is one of the most popular internal routing protocols used by midsize and large companies. 