Thus, a normal heart rate for women is between 70 to 80 beats per minute. For women that are into health and fitness and exercise regularly this range may go down and be between 45 to 60 beats per minute. Your heart rate is affected by factors such as: The normal heart rate for women is a measure of the resting rate. The resting heart rate is measured in BPM-beats per minute-which is a measurement that is best taken when you are breathing normally.
While the normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60-100 beats per minute, conditioned athletes and other highly fit individuals might have normal resting heart rates of 40-60 beats per minute. 
When someone refers to resting pulse rate, it often means the rate at which the heart beats when the body is at rest. Resting pulse rates within a normal range is an indication of good health, asserts the National Institutes of Health. For women, a normal resting heart rate isn't different than in a man. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically. In this situation, the normal resting heart rate can be as low as 40 to 60 beats per minute, maintains MayoClinic.com. Resting Pulse Rate. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.
Feb. 3, 2009 -- A woman's resting pulse rate is a good predictor of her heart attack risk regardless of other risk factors, such as smoking and alcohol consumption, researchers say. A team of scientists analyzed records of 129,135 postmenopausal women who had no history of heart problems. The relationship between resting heart rate and coronary risk was stronger in women less than 65 years old than in women over 65. The data for the study came from the Women's Health Initiative. Women with a history of heart attack, stroke, or similar serious problems were excluded.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. But a heart rate lower than 60 doesn’t necessarily mean you have a medical problem. Active people often have lower heart rates because their heart muscles don't need to work as hard to maintain a steady beat.
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal. 