A urinary tract infection-a UTI can cause cloudy urine. The urinary tract infection may be accompanied with burning or painful urination. A bladder infection (a more specific type of urinary tract infection), also known as Cystitis, may cause cloudy urine. If your cloudy urine is caused by a urinary tract infection, or bladder infection, it is usually treated by simple antibiotics and clears up within a couple of weeks. If your cloudy urine is caused by a kidney stone… you’ll usually know it, as the pain can be pretty intense.
Cloudy Urine (Definition). Cloudy or murky urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection, which may also have an offensive smell. Murky urine may also be caused by the presence of bacteria, mucus, white blood cells or red blood cells, epithelial cells, fat, or phosphates. ...Read more. 
Healthy urine is clear and light yellow in color. Urine may appear cloudy for a variety of reasons, some of which are not harmful, such as foaming of the urine that occurs temporarily when urinating rapidly.
Cloudy urine may be a sign of a urinary tract infection, sediment from a distended bladder, blood in urine, an enterovesicular fistula, gonorrhea, Schistosomiasis, or vaginal discharge. 
Some possible cloudy urine causes are: Food can cause a change in the consistency and color of your urine, although they are not the usual cause of cloudy urine. Blood in urine-When the blood is microscopic, it may not show bright red or dark red but rather it may appear as cloudy urine. If your cloudy urine is caused by a urinary tract infection, or bladder infection, it is usually treated by simple antibiotics and clears up within a couple of weeks. If your cloudy urine is caused by a kidney stone… you’ll usually know it, as the pain can be pretty intense.
There are a variety of cloudy urine causes. If your urine color is cloudy or looks like milky urine, it could be nothing to worry about … or it could be a sign of a serious illness. Keep in mind that cloudy urine is a symptom and not an illness by itself. If your cloudy urine is caused by a urinary tract infection, or bladder infection, it is usually treated by simple antibiotics and clears up within a couple of weeks. If your cloudy urine is caused by a kidney stone… you’ll usually know it, as the pain can be pretty intense.
Cloudy urine can be caused by a variety of conditions, including vaginal discharge, sexually transmitted diseases, dehydration, certain autoimmune disorders, as well as infection, inflammation, or other conditions of the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra). Urine may appear cloudy for a variety of reasons, some of which are not harmful, such as foaming of the urine that occurs temporarily when urinating rapidly.
Cloudy urine is often caused by infection, inflammation or other conditions of the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra) or the reproductive organs. A small amount of blood in the urine that is not visible to the naked eye can also cause cloudy urine. Cloudy urine can also be caused by diseases of other body systems and diseases that cause the excretion of protein in the urine, which can cloud urine when present in high levels. 
Normal urine is clear and has a straw-yellow color. When the urine does not have its characteristic clear appearance, it is often referred to as cloudy, turbid, or foamy urine. Cloudy or foamy urine may occur occasionally due to mild dehydration; when it occurs in the absence of symptoms and goes away rapidly, it is usually of little consequence. Certain conditions can cause excess protein or crystalline substances in the urine, causing it to persistently appear cloudy or foamy. Infections anywhere in the urinary tract can cause blood and pus to appear in the urine, giving it a cloudy appearance. Additionally, many of the numerous causes of blood in the urine can yield a cloudy or murky appearance to the urine due to the presence of blood