Types of Rabbit Breeds. In my opinion there are two main types of rabbit breeds in which all other classifications fall into; domestic and wild rabbit breeds. All of the breeds of rabbits recognized by the American Rabbit Breeders Association are domestic b
Answer by Kath (1537). There are many kinds of wild rabbits including european, cottontails, amami, forest, swamp, marsh, eastern cottontail, brush type, desert, mexican, mountain and newengland cottontails. Overall there are about 30 different types. Silly rabbit! There are many types of rabbits in the wild United States of America. There is the anami rabbit, the cottontail, the European rabbit, as well as the forest, marsh, desert and swamp rabbits, which are named and noted as living in the kind of conditions that describe them. add a comment.
Types of Rabbits – Discover information about the different types of rabbits and their classifications. Article by Gabriel Billones. Overall, there are 47 different breeds of rabbits, according to the American Rabbit Breeders Association (ARBA). 
In simple terms, all rabbits regardless of the categories that they have been categorized in, fall into two main rabbit types. These two main types include: Domestic Rabbits and Wild Rabbits. As mentioned already, all of the breeds of rabbits mentioned in this article are domestic rabbit breeds. Wild rabbit breeds are not categorized in the same way that domestic breeds are. The most common rabbit fur classification is; Normal Rabbit Fur. The majority of the different breeds of rabbits have “normal rabbit fur”. Within the “Normal Rabbit Fur” category there are two different rabbit fur sub-types; Fly-back Fur and Rollback Fur.
There are five main different type rabbit type categories that rabbits are commonly classified by; Rabbit Body Type, Rabbit Fur Type, Rabbit Sizes, Rabbit Purpose, and Domestic vs. Wild Rabbits. The most common rabbit fur classification is; Normal Rabbit Fur. The majority of the different breeds of rabbits have “normal rabbit fur”. Within the “Normal Rabbit Fur” category there are two different rabbit fur sub-types; Fly-back Fur and Rollback Fur.
Rabbits and the Wildlife Act (April 2008). Comment: The Environmental (Species and Public Protection) Statutes Amendment Act, 2008, contains nothing new specific to the European Rabbit-Oryctolagus cuniculus. Rabbits and the Wildlife Act. A number of different species of rabbits are found in BC. Native species include the wild White-tailed Jackrabbit-Lepus townsendii, Nuttall s cottontail-Sylvilagus nuttallii and the snowshoe hare-Lepus americanus. Another species, the European Rabbit-Oryctolagus cuniculus, was introduced to BC by settlers. 
Simple Sylvilagus. Each breed of domestic rabbit comes in its 'infinite variety' with variations of colours, coat, textures, sizes, ear types etc. But by comparison, the wild rabbit remains the same-flat coated, fairly small with agouti colours, a mixture of blue, black and yellow. Rabbit Breeds. Detailed descriptions of all types of rabbits can be found on the different breeds and types of rabbits page. Where available each detailed rabbit breed page has links to specific rabbit breed clubs, rabbit breeders and any known rabbit associations or rabbit councils.
In addition to being commonly classified by “Rabbit Body Type” rabbits are also classified by the fur on their pelts. There are four main types of rabbit fur; Normal Rabbit Fur, Rex Rabbit Fur, Satin Rabbit Fur, Wool Rabbit Fur. The most common rabbit fur classification is; Normal Rabbit Fur. The majority of the different breeds of rabbits have “normal rabbit fur”. Within the “Normal Rabbit Fur” category there are two different rabbit fur sub-types; Fly-back Fur and Rollback Fur.