Sorry-no fossils here! Igneous rocks form from molten rock, and rarely have fossils in them. Metamorphic rocks have been put under great pressure, heated, squashed or stretched, and fossils do not usually survive these extreme conditions. Generally it is only sedimentary rocks that contain fossils.
© Larry Fellows. In certain conditions, and over a very long period of time, sediment becomes compacted and cemented into sedimentary rock. Fossils are more common in some kinds of sedimentary rocks than others. There are many factors that can contribute to the likelihood of an organism being preserved as a fossil. Fossils are most common in limestones. That is because most limestones consist partly or mostly of the shells of organisms.
Some rocks are old.These sometimes have fossils.This is because the rocks used to be mud.When a inprint is made on the mud and does not get washed away the mud hardends … the inprint stays.Years later the inprinted mud turns into a rock.If you get lucky and crack that rock open, the inprint is there. Fossils will be found mainly in sedimentary rocks. Sedimentary rocks are formed by the compression and cementation of sediments over millions of years.
(Answer #1). Fossils are formed when the body of a living organism that has died is covered and protected from decay by microorganisms and attacks by predators. Usually fossils are formed when a layer of sediment covers dead plants, animals and microorganisms. 
The great bulk of the fossil record is dominated by fossils of animals with shells and microscopic remains of plants and animals, and these remains are widespread in sedimentary rocks. It is these fossils that are studied by most paleontologists. 
AGS / Geology / Fossils / Main. Fossils are the remains of once-living organisms – plants and animals. Animals usually had hard parts such as teeth, bone or a shell that has been preserved in the rock we see today. If the animal had a backbone the fossil would be in the vertebrate category because we would mostly find the fossil bones or teeth of those animals.
2 The fossils are destroyed if the rocks are subjected to great heat and pressure (In the formation of metamorphic rocks). Igneous rocks are formed from molten rock and therefore has no record of fossils. · just now. Report Abuse. Sedimentary Igneous rocks have cooled from molten rock, so are very unlikely to preserve any fossils (although casts have been found in lava, this is very rare). Metamorphic rocks have been heated and deformed, this normally destroys fossils.
Fossil Rocks. Fossils are animals or plants that have been turned to stone. Usually we concentrate on what the plant and animal is, its shape, how old it is, and so on. On this page, we will look at the stone itself. Fossils can exist in many different types of mineral, and I am only going to cover a few. 
Fossils. Fossils are evidence of ancient life forms or ancient habitats which have been preserved by natural processes. They can be the actual remains of a once living thing, such as bones or seeds, or even traces of past events such as dinosaur footprints, or the ripple marks on a prehistoric shore. 