We determine the total standard cost of the denim that should have been used to make the 160 aprons by multiplying the standard quantity of denim (278 yards) by the standard cost of a yard of denim ($3 per yard): An inventory account (such as F.G. Because Direct Materials Inventory reports the standard cost of the actual materials on hand, we reduce the account balance by $870 (290 yards used $3 standard cost per yard). After removing 290 yards of materials, the balance in the Direct Materials Inventory account is $2,130 (710 yards x $3 standard cost per yard)
The manufactured item information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes the following: Standard order quantity for inventory − The item’s standard order quantity for inventory, acts as the default accounting lot size for amortizing constant costs in a BOM calculation. The manufacturing overhead information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes: Surcharge − A surcharge calculation formula reflects a percentage of value, such as 100 percent, that is tied to a specific cost group, such as labor.
The route information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes: Route version − The route version that is assigned to the manufactured item has effective from and to dates, and a status for approved and active. The manufacturing overhead information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes: Surcharge − A surcharge calculation formula reflects a percentage of value, such as 100 percent, that is tied to a specific cost group, such as labor.
The entry is: Direct Materials Inventory is debited for the standard cost of $9,000 (3,000 yards at $3 per yard), Accounts Payable is credited for the actual amount owed, and the difference of $240 is credited to Direct Materials Price Variance. A credit to the variance account indicates that the actual cost is less than the standard cost. After this transaction is recorded, the Direct Materials Price Variance account shows an overall credit balance of $190.
home / study / questions and answers / business / accounting / the standard unit cost is used in the calculation ... 
On January 8 DenimWorks' Direct Materials Inventory is increased by the standard cost of $3,000 (1,000 yards of denim at the standard cost of $3 per yard), Accounts Payable is credited for $2,900 (the actual amount owed to the supplier), and the difference of $100 is credited to Direct Materials Price Variance. A credit to the variance account indicates that the actual cost is less than the standard cost. After this transaction is recorded, the Direct Materials Price Variance account shows an overall credit balance of $190.
The bill of material information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes the following: BOM version − The BOM version that is assigned to the manufactured item has effective from and to dates, and a status for approved and active. The manufacturing overhead information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes: Surcharge − A surcharge calculation formula reflects a percentage of value, such as 100 percent, that is tied to a specific cost group, such as labor.
The purchased item information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes the following: Cost − A purchased item’s costs are maintained as site-specific cost records in a costing version for standard costs. The manufacturing overhead information that is used in a standard cost BOM calculation includes: Surcharge − A surcharge calculation formula reflects a percentage of value, such as 100 percent, that is tied to a specific cost group, such as labor.
The $100 credit to the price variance account communicates immediately (when the denim arrives) that the company is experiencing actual costs that are more favorable than the planned, standard cost. In February, DenimWorks orders 3,000 yards of denim at $3.05 per yard. A credit to the variance account indicates that the actual cost is less than the standard cost. After this transaction is recorded, the Direct Materials Price Variance account shows an overall credit balance of $190.