BICEPS ANIMATION. TRICEPS ANIMATION. Muscle pairs: Muscles are grouped together in pairs on your skeleton. Relaxed or contracted: When one muscle of a pair contracts, the other relaxes. Pulling muscles.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. 
Skeletal muscles only pull in one direction. For this reason they always come in pairs. When one muscle in a pair contracts, to bend a joint for example, its counterpart then contracts and pulls in the opposite direction to straighten the joint out again. TRICEPS ANIMATION. Muscle pairs: Muscles are grouped together in pairs on your skeleton. Relaxed or contracted: When one muscle of a pair contracts, the other relaxes. Pulling muscles.
Muscles are normally arranged in opposition so that as one group of muscles contract another group relaxes or lengthens. Antagonistic pairs of muscles are muscle where one move the bone in one direction and the other moves it back the other way in transmission of nerve impulses to the muscles. That means that it is impossible to fully stimulate the contraction of two antagonistic muscles at the same time. Together the skeletal muscles work with your bones to give your body power and strength. Skeletal muscles are held to the bones with the help of tendons. Tendons are cords made of tough tissue, and they work as special connector pieces between bone and muscle.
Examples range from 640 to 850. The muscles of the human body can be categorized into a number of groups which include muscles relating to the head and neck, muscles of the torso or trunk, muscles of the upper limbs, and muscles of the lower limbs. The action refers to the action of each muscle from the standard anatomical position. 
Muscles work in pairs just like the bicep and the triceps muscle does one job like lifting your arm is the biceps job, while lowering your arm is the triceps cobwebbed these two muscles working together we would not be able to make these two movements. The body parts that work in pairs to help your body move are the muscles. Muscles help us move our bodies. Without them, we are just a pile of bones.
1 Biceps and triceps are antagonistic pairs. 2  The biceps muscle works across three joints and the most important of these functions is to flex the elbow, while the triceps muscle is the muscle principally responsible for extension of the elbow joint. Together the skeletal muscles work with your bones to give your body power and strength. Skeletal muscles are held to the bones with the help of tendons. Tendons are cords made of tough tissue, and they work as special connector pieces between bone and muscle.
Muscle pairs. Antagonistic pairs of muscles create movement when one (the prime mover) contracts and the other (the antagonist) relaxes. Examples of antagonistic pairs working are: 1  the quadriceps and hamstrings in the leg. 2  the biceps and triceps in the arm. 