When you think about food allergies, shoulder and knee joint pain is not a symptom that typically comes to mind. For people who suffer from arthritis or other inflammatory joint conditions, food allergies can cause a flare-up of pain caused by inflammation. According to the Center for Food Allergies, anything that causes a reaction of the immune system can trigger joint pain in various parts of the body, including the shoulders or knees. If you notice that you develop pain in your joints after eating certain foods, call your doctor
If you suspect you have a food allergy, see an allergist for a diagnosis. Your doctor may do a skin prick test, applying a small amount of the allergen to a scratch on the skin of your arm or back and watching for a reaction. He may also do an Immunoglobulin E (IgE) test to check for antibodies in your blood. If you notice that joint pain begins within a day of eating a particular food and then goes away until the next time you eat the food, you may have a food allergy. Other, more common food allergy symptoms include swelling, hives, difficulty breathing, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
The most common foods that cause an allergic reaction include wheat, soy, peanuts, fish, tree nuts, shellfish, eggs and milk, according to Medline Plus. Food allergies are a reaction of the immune system caused by a malfunction. Your immune system defends the body from harmful substances, such as viruses and bacteria. During an allergic reaction, your immune system mistakes the proteins in the food as harmful and overreacts to protect the body. According to the Center for Food Allergies, anything that causes a reaction of the immune system can trigger joint pain in various parts of the body, including the shoulders or knees. If you notice that you develop pain in your joints after eating certain foods, call your doctor
A food allergy happens when your immune system mistakes something in food as harmful and attacks it. It can affect your whole body, not just your stomach. Symptoms may include: 1  Rash, hives, or itchy skin. 2  Shortness of breath. 3  Chest pain. 
Plant Foods & Pain. Citrus, corn, peanuts, soy, or wheat cause pain in some people. Migraines can be caused by sunflower seed, walnut, cashew, coconut, or pineapple. Among plant foods, soy may be the one that causes pain the most often. Milk is the most common pain-causing food. Dairy is also the most common food allergen. Some people think that milk damages the gut lining, creating leaky gut syndrome, causing other food allergies.
Anaphylaxis. In some people, a food allergy can trigger a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. This can cause life-threatening signs and symptoms, including: 1  Constriction and tightening of airways. 2  A swollen throat or the sensation of a lump in your throat that makes it difficult to breathe. Exercise-induced food allergy. Some people have an allergic reaction to a food triggered by exercise. Eating certain foods may cause you to feel itchy and lightheaded soon after you start exercising. In serious cases, an exercise-induced food allergy can cause certain reactions such as hives or
Milk Allergy is Not Lactose Intolerance. Allergy to milk is different from lactose intolerance. People with lactose intolerance can't digest lactose, a sugar in milk. Undigested lactose in the gut causes bloating, cramps, diarrhea, gas, and nausea. The symptoms are not a reaction to lactose. Milk is the most common pain-causing food. Dairy is also the most common food allergen. Some people think that milk damages the gut lining, creating leaky gut syndrome, causing other food allergies.
Diagnosing Food Allergies. A food allergy will usually cause some sort of reaction every time the trigger food is eaten. Symptoms can vary from person to person, and you may not always experience the same symptoms during every reaction. Learn more about the types of food allergies. Symptoms. Not everyone who experiences symptoms after eating certain foods has a food allergy or needs to avoid that food entirely; for instance, some people experience an itchy mouth and throat after eating a raw or uncooked fruit or vegetable.
1 Severe reactions are most often seen with allergies to nuts, fish, and shellfish, although allergy to any food can cause anaphylaxis. 2  People with asthma, childhood allergies, eczema, or prior severe food allergies are especially at risk for having an anaphylactic reaction. 