You can also trade with a friend over the Internet, but you'll need to trust them enough to trade your Pokemon pokémon back To Omega / Ruby Alpha. Sapphire In Omega / Ruby Alpha, sapphire select PlayNav playnav from the bottom, screen then The Player Search. system In Omega Ruby / Alpha Sapphire, head over to the Player Search System, then click the arrow on the right of the bottom screen to find the GTS option on the second page. Tap it, then select Deposit Pokemon. pokémon
Pokemon Omega Ruby/Alpha Sapphire Friend Code Exchange! Please leave a like and a comment If you enjoyed this! Sub to LadyKrimZen Here: http://www.youtube.com/LadyKrimZen. Follow me On Twitter: https://twitter.com/PIMPNITEYT. Like my Facebook page for updates: https://www.facebook.com/PIMPNITEOffi... 1  Gaming. 
I'm looking to add some friends in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire so that we could battle and possibly trade Pokemon. Regarding the trading side of things, I'm interested in a few different Pokemon. With all of these, I'm not concerned about them being shiny unless I specify. 
How to find your 3DS Friend Code for Pokemon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. 1  Gaming. How to find your 3DS Friend Code for Pokemon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire. Category. License.
In Omega Ruby / Alpha Sapphire, head over to the Player Search System, then click the arrow on the right of the bottom screen to find the GTS option on the second page. Tap it, then select Deposit Pokemon. Pokémon choose a Junk pokemon pokémon'you don t, mind losing make a note, of it And. select deposit In Omega Ruby / Alpha Sapphire, head over to the Player Search System, then click the arrow on the right of the bottom screen to find the GTS option on the second page. Tap it, then select Deposit Pokemon. pokémon
Thard_Verad answered: If you're in the same room, you can do it the other way around: Trade and battle first, then register as friends directly from the game. To add friends from a distance, you'll need to do it from the 3DS menu. At the top, tap the Friends icon. (Orange smiley-face square) There should be a button to add friends. Enter his FC on your system, and he enters your code on his. 
Super-Secret Bases make their return in Pokemon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, but this time there are a few new features while keeping the spirit of the original concept alive. Secret Bases are small rooms you can create, decorate, and share with friends. You can find a Secret Base with the StreetPass function of your 3DS, or you can create a QR code specifically for your secret base. To create a QR Code, go onto your Secret PC (the laptop in your base), select Manage QR Code patterns, and select Share a Secret Base.
Game Sync. Obtain a Game Sync ID code from your Pokemon Omega Ruby or Alpha Sapphire game to use on the Pokemon Global Link website. This will allows you to send Pokemon to and from the PGL, along with other rare Pokemon and items you may obtain from the website. All Pokemon Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire players on your 3DS friends list will automatically appear on the PSS screen next to acquaintances and passerbys.