British-tradition cuts. The sirloin steak is a steak cut from the back of the animal. In a common U.S. butchery, the steak is cut from the rear back portion of the animal, continuing off the short loin from which T-bone, porterhouse, and club steaks are cut. The sirloin is actually divided into several types of steak.
Best Answer: The simple answer is that they are various cuts of beef which have been given a name by which to identify them. They are each cut from a different area. The sirloin steak is the least expensive and least tender of the premium steaks. It is cut from a lower, mostly muscular area. The new york strip steak is slightly more expensive than the sirloin, but, still reasonably priced. The T-Bone steak is cut from the same area as the new york strip and has a portion of bone attached. The T-Bone has steak on each side of the bone, one side consists of new york strip and the other side of the bone consists of a small portion of filet mignon. The filet steak is considered the most tender steak and the most expensive
The differences are the cuts of meat. Sirloin is more tender, New York has a bone in it, and a filet steak is generally used for filet mignon or some other dish that calls for a really tender meat. The T-Bone steak is cut from the same area as the new york strip and has a portion of bone attached. The T-Bone has steak on each side of the bone, one side consists of new york strip and the other side of the bone consists of a small portion of filet mignon. The filet steak is considered the most tender steak and the most expensive
The generic term sirloin is another sirloin cut that is just above the tenderloin. No one sirloin is better than the other, however, the top sirloin is slightly more tender, as it is located in an area where the muscle is not given any exposure and thus the meat is slightly more tender then, say, the shank (legs). Most people think top sirloin means its of better quality, but this is a myth. 
Sirloin refers to the meat that comes from the loin area and includes tri-tip roast, flat-bone steak, pin-bone steak, round bone steak, flap steak, beef loin, bottom sirloin butt and top sirloin steak. Top Sirloin Steak. Top sirloin steak comes from the sirloin region. A top sirloin steak is large and cut from 2 ½ to 3 ½ inches thick with a small amount of bone. The bone adds flavor to the meat. Boneless top sirloin steak comes from the bottom region of the sirloin area
T-bone steak. A huge steak that is sirloin on one side of the bone and fillet on the other-so the best of both words, some say. A porterhouse steak is similar, but has much more tenderloin. Key insider tips: both parts of the steak cook at different rates, so keep a careful eye on it while it’s cooking. 
Answers. Best Answer: the sirloin steak comes from the hip whereas the tip comes from the end of the round (rear end section) there is no comparison between the two the sirloin is more tender to eat as where the tip is not a good steak to eat at all, unless you marinate it and use as a stir fry and have it sliced thin. 
Both sit between fillet and sirloin cuts of steak price wise, however if you find a comparatively cheap Porterhouse (approx. the same price as sirloin) it is likely to be just the short loin or front of the sirloin, without the bone. There is a distinction between top and bottom sirloin, with the former cut of steak being considered more desirable (it will usually be marked up as top sirloin if that’s where it is from). Find out how to cook sirloin steaks in our article.