Hi, for PAN Card status UTI is looking for the entire process. go through the following link and type your application number or coupon number. whatever you have. mostly you have PAN Application number. it will shows card status under processing or delivered. 
1 Select application type-new application (form 49A). 2  Application number-enter your PAN Card application number here. 3  Coupon number –put your coupon number here. 4  Applicant’s name-enter the full name of PAN Card applicant. 5  Finally, go ahead to check the status of PAN Card. 1 Application number-enter your PAN Card application number here. 2  Coupon number –put your coupon number here. 3  Applicant’s name-enter the full name of PAN Card applicant. 4  Finally, go ahead to check the status of PAN Card.
*(Name should be as mentioned in the application form. Applicants other than 'Individuals' should write their name in the field for Last Name/Surname only). Note: Applicant should search for the status of PAN application using Name and Date Of Birth 24 hours after the application has been submitted online or through TIN-FC. 
Apply Online for Change/Correction in PAN Card details (CSF): » Apply for Change/Correction in PAN Card details (CSF). » Regenerate your Online Application for Change Request. » Download blank Change Request Form (pdf). Click here to check status online. 1. Application for a PAN card should be made on the UTIITSL given form or the form given by the Service Center of IT PAN, or the website: http://www.utiitsl.com. 2. Also Rs.106/- worth processing coupon, from any IT PAN Service Center must be affixed to the form. 3.
1 Use these three steps to track the same-. 2  Select application type-new application (form 49A). 3  Application number-enter your PAN Card application number here. 4  Coupon number –put your coupon number here. 5  Applicant’s name-enter the full name of PAN Card applicant. 6  Finally, go ahead to check the status of PAN Card. 1 Application number-enter your PAN Card application number here. 2  Coupon number –put your coupon number here. 3  Applicant’s name-enter the full name of PAN Card applicant. 4  Finally, go ahead to check the status of PAN Card.
The PAN Card application status can be known for a new or reprinted PAN card or a corrected PAN Card application using the fifteen-digit, exclusive number of acknowledgment three days subsequent to the application. PAN Card Tracking : You require the following details : 1.Your coupon number. 1. Application for a PAN card should be made on the UTIITSL given form or the form given by the Service Center of IT PAN, or the website. 2. Also Rs.94/- worth processing coupon, from any IT PAN Service Center must be affixed to the form. 3.
You can track your PAN status or PAN card status online through the UTI website as well. 1  Use these three steps to track the same-. 2  Select application type-new application (form 49A). 3  Application number-enter your PAN Card application number here. 4  Coupon number –put your coupon number here. 1 Application number-enter your PAN Card application number here. 2  Coupon number –put your coupon number here. 3  Applicant’s name-enter the full name of PAN Card applicant. 4  Finally, go ahead to check the status of PAN Card.