1 A 5'→3' (forward) exonuclease activity mediating nick translation during DNA repair. 2  A 5'→3' (forward) RNA-Dependent DNA polymerase activity. 3  Pol I operates on RNA templates with considerably lower efficiency (0.1–0.4%) than it does DNA templates, and this activity is probably of only limited biological significance. 1 A 3'→5' (reverse) exonuclease activity that mediates proofreading. 2  A 5'→3' (forward) exonuclease activity mediating nick translation during DNA repair. 3
2. 3' to 5' exonuclease (proof-reading activity). 3. 5' to 3' exonuclease (repair activity). Because the strands of a DNA double helix have opposite chemical polarity, one strand is extended in a 5'-3' direction while the other extends in a 3'-5' direction. However, DNA polymerases can only catalyze synthesis in the 5'-3' direction. As such, simultaneously, the RNA primers are removed by 5'-3' exonuclease activity of DNA polymerase 1, and also carrying out synthesis by the polymerase activity of DNA polymerase 1 at the same time. Finally, the DNA chain is covalently closed by the DNA ligase.
DNA polymerase III holoenzyme is the primary enzyme involved in DNA replication in E. coli and belongs to Family C polymerases. It consists of three assemblies: the pol III core, the beta sliding clamp processivity factor and the clamp-loading complex. When an incorrect base pair is recognized, DNA polymerase moves backwards by one base pair of DNA. The 3'-5' exonuclease activity of the enzyme allows the incorrect base pair to be excised (this activity is known as proofreading).
Prokaryotic Family A polymerases include the DNA polymerase I (Pol I) enzyme, which is encoded by the polA gene and ubiquitous among prokaryotes. This repair polymerase is involved in excision repair with 3'-5' and 5'-3' exonuclease activity and processing of Okazaki fragments generated during lagging strand synthesis. When an incorrect base pair is recognized, DNA polymerase moves backwards by one base pair of DNA. The 3'-5' exonuclease activity of the enzyme allows the incorrect base pair to be excised (this activity is known as proofreading).
In addition to these proteins, several other enzymes are involved in bacterial DNA replication. 1  DNA Polymerase-DNA Polymerase I (Pol I) was the first enzyme discovered with polymerase activity, and it is the best characterized enzyme. 2  5' to 3' elongation (polymerase activity). 3  3' to 5' exonuclease (proof-reading activity). 4  5' to 3' exonuclease .... In addition to these proteins, several other enzymes are involved in bacterial DNA replication. DNA Polymerase-DNA Polymerase I (Pol I) was the first enzyme discovered with polymerase activity, and it is the best characterized enzyme. Although this was the first enzyme to be discovered that had the required polymerase activities, it is not the primary enzyme involved with bacterial DNA replication
1 A 5'→3' (forward) DNA-Dependent DNA polymerase activity, requiring a 3' primer site and a template strand. 2  A 3'→5' (reverse) exonuclease activity that mediates proofreading. 3  A 5'→3' (forward) exonuclease activity mediating nick translation during DNA repair. 4  A 5'→3' (forward) RNA-Dependent DNA polymerase activity. 1 A 3'→5' (reverse) exonuclease activity that mediates proofreading. 2  A 5'→3' (forward) exonuclease activity mediating nick translation during DNA repair. 3
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. When an incorrect base pair is recognized, DNA polymerase moves backwards by one base pair of DNA. The 3'-5' exonuclease activity of the enzyme allows the incorrect base pair to be excised (this activity is known as proofreading).
1 A 5'→3' (forward) RNA-Dependent DNA polymerase activity. 2  Pol I operates on RNA templates with considerably lower efficiency (0.1–0.4%) than it does DNA templates, and this activity is probably of only limited biological significance. 1 A 3'→5' (reverse) exonuclease activity that mediates proofreading. 2  A 5'→3' (forward) exonuclease activity mediating nick translation during DNA repair. 3 
DNA Polymerase I (or Pol I) is an enzyme that participates in the process of DNA replication. Discovered by Arthur Kornberg in 1956, it was the first known DNA polymerase (and, indeed, the first known of any kind of polymerase). It was initially characterized in E. coli and is ubiquitous in prokaryotes. 1 A 3'→5' (reverse) exonuclease activity that mediates proofreading. 2  A 5'→3' (forward) exonuclease activity mediating nick translation during DNA repair. 3  A 5'→3' (forward) RNA-Dependent DNA polymerase activity.