Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years.
How Long the Bankruptcy Will Stay on a Credit Report. The type of personal bankruptcy you file will determine the length of time the negative item will remain on your credit report. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy will stay on your credit report for 10 years, while Chapter 13 bankruptcy will remain for 7 years.
Generally speaking, negative information will need to stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity, and bankruptcies can appear on your credit report for 10 years from the date of last activity.
It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosure
Bankruptcies, however, can stay on your credit report for up to 10 years. Positive information generally remains on your credit report for a longer period of time and therefore may have a positive impact on your credit score.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years.
How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
Positive information. Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s