Free Quiz Question From Photosynthesis Quiz. Question: The photosynthetic membranes are found in the _____ in plant cells. Answer: Golgi apparatus.
The organelles in a plant are ribosomes, mitochondria, vacuoles, nucleus, nuclear membrane, cytoplasm, the cell membrane, chloroplasts which contains chlorophyll, and the cell … wall. 20 people found this useful. Answered. Any cell in a plant that has a chloroplast can unite to form a photosynthesis. The plant cell should also have in addition to it a cell wall, a large vacuole. The chloroplast … has chlorophyll which help in the process of photosynthesis. 1 person
Yes, the cell membrane is found in plant cells, within the cell wall and animal cells definitely have a cell membrane. Cell membranes are found in both animal and plant cells the difference between them is that plant cells also have a cell wall that keeps them ridgid and stiff.
The photosynthetic membranes are found in the chloroplasts.  Chloroplasts are organelles, specialized subunits, in plant and  algal cells. Their main role is to conduct phot … osynthesis. Mandyylinda. Cell membranes are found in both animal and plant cells the difference between them is that plant cells also have a cell wall that keeps them ridgid and stiff.
Photosynthetic cells contain chlorophyll and other light-sensitive pigments that capture solar energy. In the presence of carbon dioxide, such cells are able to convert this solar energy into energy-rich organic molecules, such as glucose. This process, called photosynthesis, is essential to the global carbon cycle and organisms that conduct photosynthesis represent the lowest level in most food chains (Figure 1). Figure 1: Photosynthetic plants synthesize carbon-based energy molecules from the energy in sunlight.
Plant Cell: Structures and Organelles. To learn more about organelles that can be found in typical plant cells, see: 1  Cell (Plasma) Membrane-a thin, semi-permeable membrane that surrounds the cytoplasm of a cell, enclosing its contents. 2  Cell Wall-outer covering of the cell that protects the plant cell and gives it shape. 
Photosynthesis takes place inside plant cells in small things called chloroplasts. Chloroplasts (mostly found in the mesophyll layer) contain a green substance called chlorophyll. Below are the other parts of the cell that work with the chloroplast to make photosynthesis happen. Structure of a mesophyll cell. 
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBooks. Besides the presence of chloroplasts, another major difference between plant and animal cells is the presence of a cell wall. The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane of plant cells and provides tensile strength and protection against mechanical and osmotic stress.
Most living things depend on photosynthetic cells to manufacture the complex organic molecules they require as a source of energy. Photosynthetic cells are quite diverse and include cells found in green plants, phytoplankton, and cyanobacteria. This process, called photosynthesis, is essential to the global carbon cycle and organisms that conduct photosynthesis represent the lowest level in most food chains (Figure 1). Figure 1: Photosynthetic plants synthesize carbon-based energy molecules from the energy in sunlight.
The chloroplast in photosynthesis. The chloroplasts [chloroplasts: Microscopic structures containing chlorophyl found in green plant cells where photosynthesis takes place.] are the organelles where the two stages of photosynthesis take place. The structure of the chloroplast. The granum (plural grana) is a stack of membranes [membrane: a very thin layer of tissue] which contains the photosynthetic pigments; this is where the light dependent stage takes place: 1  The pigments are chemicals which absorb light energy and convert it to chemical energy.