Map of U.S. time zones between April 2, 2006, and March 11, 2007. The current situation is different only in that several Indiana counties are now in the Eastern Time Zone instead of the Central Time Zone. Some United States Minor Outlying Islands are outside the time zones defined by 15 U.S.C. §260 and exist in waters defined by Nautical time. In practice, military crews may simply use Zulu time (UTC±0) when on these islands. Baker Island and Howland Island are in UTC−12, while Wake Island is in UTC+12
Best Answer: 5. Eastern, Central, Mountain, Pacific and Alaska standard time. Alaska is on the same continent as the other 48 states. Now if you said contiguous instead of continental, it would be 4 Arizona is in the Mountain time zone, they just don't have daylight saving time. Source(s): stolsai · 8 years ago.
How many Time Zone signs are there in the US?   Five time zones are in the continental United States from west to east: pacific, mountain, central, eastern, and Atlantic. 
Time zone names. The names Eastern, Central, Mountain, and Pacific have been used for the four time zones of the 48 contiguous states since the beginning of standard time in the United States. Alaska used to have four time zones: Pacific, Yukon, Alaska, and Bering. 
Chamorro Standard Time = UTC+10. The United States was divided into four time zones on November 18, 1883, and jurisdiction for the zones was given to the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). All places keep the same time within each time zone. The zones in the United States were intended to represent the mean times of four different meridians (not including daylight saving time): 1  Eastern Standard Time (EST). 2  Central Standard Time (CST). 3  Mountain Standard Time (MST). 4  Pacific Standard Time (PST).
note: most of Arizona does not go on daylight savings time, so if you want to get very trivial and technical, during savings time, there are 5 zones, in a sense, but the Arizona time is the same as that of California's Daylight savings time. 
The conterminous United States is composed of four time zones-Eastern, Central, Mountain, and Pacific. Each county is assigned to one of the four time zones. The four time zones of the 48 conterminous United States (boundaries are indicated by the red line). County boundaries are shown in gray and state boundaries are dark blue. Most of Alaska is in the Alaskan Time Zone but a portion of the Aleutian Islands are in the Hawaii-Aleutian Time Zone. 
Alaska and Hawaii have their own time zones: Alaska Standard Time (AKST) and Hawaii Standard Time (HST) respectively. Daylight Saving Time began for most of the United States at 2 a.m. on the second Sunday of March. Time reverts to standard time at 2 a.m. on the first Sunday of November. See daylight-saving-time.com for details.
1 vote Vote for this answer. There exists some sub time zones as well. Arizona does not observe Daylight Saving Time. This means that in Arizona we never change our clocks like most of the rest of the country does. Other areas in the U.S. that don't observe Daylight Saving Time are Hawaii, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands. In Arizona, we just don't need another hour of sunlight!