Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
ATP. n. 1. (Biochemistry) adenosine triphosphate; a nucleotide found in the mitochondria of all plant and animal cells. It is the major source of energy for cellular reactions, this energy being released during its conversion to ADP. Formula: C10H16N5O13P3. ATP-a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue; the major source of energy for cellular reactions. adenosine triphosphate. nucleotide, base-a phosphoric ester of a nucleoside; the basic structural unit of nucleic acids (DNA or RNA).
adenosine triphosphate: a nucleotide that is the primary source of energy in all living cells because of its function in donating a phosphate group during biochemical activities; composed of adenosine, ribose, and three phosphate groups and formed by enzymatic reaction from adenosine diphosphate and an orthophosphate. ATP-a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue; the major source of energy for cellular reactions. adenosine triphosphate. nucleotide, base-a phosphoric ester of a nucleoside; the basic structural unit of nucleic acids (DNA or RNA).
Medical Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP—called also adenosine triphosphate. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids.
Noun. 1. ATP-a nucleotide derived from adenosine that occurs in muscle tissue; the major source of energy for cellular reactions. adenosine triphosphate. nucleotide, base-a phosphoric ester of a nucleoside; the basic structural unit of nucleic acids (DNA or RNA).
adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) a term used to refer to the enzymatic activity of certain intercellular processes that split ATP to form ADP and inorganic phosphate, when the energy released is not used for the synthesis of chemical compounds. Examples are the splitting of ATP in muscle contraction and the transport of ions across cell membranes. adenosine triphosphate (ATP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-triphosphate, occurring in all cells, where it stores energy in the form of high-energy phosphate bonds.
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-pyrophosphate, produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. adenosine monophosphate (AMP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-phosphate, involved in energy metabolism and nucleotide synthesis. Called also adenylic acid. Examples are the splitting of ATP in muscle contraction and the transport of ions across cell membranes. adenosine triphosphate (ATP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-triphosphate, occurring in all cells, where it stores energy in the form of high-energy phosphate bonds.
(2) An organic compound composed of adenosine (an adenine ring and a ribose sugar) and three phosphate groups, hence, the name. Supplement. ATP is a nucleotide that contains a large amount of chemical energy stored in its high-energy phosphate bonds. It releases energy when it is broken down (hydrolyzed) into ADP (or Adenosine Diphosphate). The energy is used for many metabolic processes
Definition. Adenosine triphosphate, or ATP for short, is the energy currency of life. ATP is a high-energy molecule found in every cell. Its job is to store and supply the cell with needed energy. Lesson Summary. ATP, or adenosine triphosphate, is a high-energy molecule that is found floating in the cytoplasm of every cell. It's a three-part molecule that has a phosphate group.
An adenosine-derived nucleotide, C 10 H 16 N 5 O 13 P 3, that contains high-energy phosphate bonds and is used to transport energy to cells for biochemical processes, including muscle contraction and enzymatic metabolism, through its hydrolysis to ADP. ATP is hydrolyzed to AMP when it is incorporated into DNA or RNA. 