The most common cause of cardiac injury is myocardial ischemia, ie, acute myocardial infarction. Troponin T becomes elevated 2 to 4 hours after the onset of myocardial necrosis, and can remain elevated for up to 14 days. Elevations in troponin T are also seen in patients with unstable angina. 
When measured with older generation assays, elevated troponin levels can be detected 6-12 hours after onset of myocardial injury, peaking at about 24 hours, followed by a gradual decline over several days (up to 2 weeks). The troponins are specific to cardiac muscle, rise fairly early in cardiac injury, and stay elevated longer than some of the other cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB and myoglobin. Normal serial troponin values effectively rule out acute myocardial ischemia.
Levels of troponin can become elevated in the blood within 3 or 4 hours after heart injury and may remain elevated for 10 to 14 days. In people with angina, an elevated troponin may indicate that their condition is worsening and they are at increased risk of a heart attack. When a person has significantly elevated troponin levels and, in particular, a rise in the results from a series of tests done over several hours, then it is likely that the person has had a heart attack or some other form of damage to the heart.
Troponin levels become elevated within 2 to 3 hours after the onset of chest discomfort, peak at 18-24 hours, and remain elevated for up to 14 days. The half life of circulating troponin is approximately 2 hours. Two normal troponin levels indicate a dischargeable patient. Approximately10% of patients with an acute coronary syndrome has normal troponin and increased CK-MB, which is most likely due to skeletal muscle injury.
The 99th percentile cutoff point for cardiac troponin T (cTnT) is well-known at 0.01 ng/mL (with 10% coefficient of variance value at the 99th percentile of 0.03 ng/mL), as only one cTnT assay exists. The troponins are specific to cardiac muscle, rise fairly early in cardiac injury, and stay elevated longer than some of the other cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB and myoglobin. Normal serial troponin values effectively rule out acute myocardial ischemia.
Normal troponin levels 12 hours after chest pain has started mean a heart attack is unlikely. The examples above are common measurements for results of these tests. Normal value ranges may vary slightly among different laboratories. Some labs use different measurements or test different samples. Most patients who have had a heart attack have increased troponin levels within 6 hours. After 12 hours almost everyone who has had a heart attack will have raised levels. Troponin levels may remain high for 1 to 2 weeks after a heart attack. Increased troponin levels may also be due to: 1  Abnormally fast heart beat.
Three types of troponins exist—troponin I, troponin T, and troponin C. Each subunit has a unique function: Troponin T binds the troponin components to tropomyosin, troponin I inhibits the interaction of myosin with actin, and troponin C contains the binding sites for Ca 2+ that helps initiate contraction. The troponins are specific to cardiac muscle, rise fairly early in cardiac injury, and stay elevated longer than some of the other cardiac biomarkers such as CK-MB and myoglobin. Normal serial troponin values effectively rule out acute myocardial ischemia.
Results. Cardiac enzyme studies measure the levels of the enzyme creatine kinase (CK), and the proteins troponin I (TnI) and troponin T (TnT) in the blood. Values and units for reporting the results of cardiac enzyme tests vary considerably. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Your lab report should contain the range your lab uses. 
Serum samples were collected for the analysis of highly-sensitive troponin-T levels. The values of highly-sensitive troponin-T of the total group and each CKD stage were presented. RESULTS: The level of highly-sensitive troponin-T in patients with CKD stage 3-5 was 0.044 +/- 0.076 ng/ml. For CKD stages 3, 4 and 5 levels were 0.015 +/- 0.016, 0.043 +/- 0.056, 0.098 +/- 0.121 ng/ml, respectively. 95th percentile of the total group was 0.139 ng/ml. BACKGROUND: Serum troponin-T concentrations are commonly increased in chronic kidney disease (CKD) without acute coronary syndrome. Highly-sensitive troponin-T the new tool that helpful for diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome, provides few data about normal value in patients with chronic kidney disease.