A nuclear stress test is similar to the exercise stress test or pharmacological (chemical) stress test, but a small amount of radioactive substance is used to determine the health of the heart and blood flow to the heart. The nuclear stress test can be referred to by other names, such as a thallium stress test 1, myocardial perfusion scan 2, or radionuclide test 3.
1 Guide treatment of heart disorders. 2  If you've been diagnosed with coronary artery disease, arrhythmia or another heart condition, a nuclear stress test can help your doctor find out how well treatment is working. 1 See the size and shape of your heart. 2  The images from a nuclear stress test can show your doctor if your heart is enlarged and can measure its pumping function (ejection fraction). 3  Guide treatment of heart disorders
A. A. A stress test can be used to test for heart disease. Stress tests are tests performed by a doctor and/or trained technician to determine the amount of stress that your heart can manage before developing either an abnormal rhythm or evidence of ischemia (not enough blood flow to the heart muscle). The exercise stress test -- also called a stress test, exercise electrocardiogram, treadmill test, graded exercise test, or stress ECG -- is used to provide information about how the heart responds to exertion.
A nuclear exercise stress test is a diagnostic test used to evaluate blood flow to the heart. During the test, a small amount of radioactive tracer is injected into a vein. 
The nuclear stress test can be done while the patient is resting or doing exercise. The radioactive substance that is injected into the patient is called a radionuclide. According to the British Heart Foundation, Radionuclide tests are considered safe 4. However, during the test you will be exposed to some radiation.. The nuclear stress test can be referred to by other names, such as a thallium stress test 1, myocardial perfusion scan 2, or radionuclide test 3.
Like other stress tests, the nuclear stress test involves obtaining two sets of images of the heart muscle, one at rest and one while, or immediately after, exercise. This will give the doctor two images to compare to evaluate how well the heart works under stress. 
Definition. A nuclear stress test measures blood flow to your heart at rest and while your heart is working harder as a result of exertion or medication. The test provides images that can show areas of low blood flow through the heart and damaged heart muscle. The test usually involves taking two sets of images of your heart — one while you're at rest and another after you heart is stressed, either by exercise or medication.
Why it's done. Your doctor may recommend a nuclear stress test to: Diagnose coronary artery disease. Your coronary arteries are the major blood vessels that supply your heart with blood, oxygen and nutrients. 1 See the size and shape of your heart. 2  The images from a nuclear stress test can show your doctor if your heart is enlarged and can measure its pumping function (ejection fraction). 3  Guide treatment of heart disorder
Stress Test With Imaging. An imaging stress test, also called a nuclear or Sestimibi stress test, is similar to the exercise stress test but provides more information by using images to show the blood flow to the heart muscle. 