20 km west of Krabi and 3 miles long, this beach is lined with a majestic Casuarina forest. The beach is a part of Koh Phi Phi National Marine Park. Just as in the case of Ao Nang, during low tides, it is possible to reach other islands in the bay on foot.
Introduction :: Krabi town is very close to the river mouth that opens to the great Andaman Sea. Krabi river flows about 5 km through the town and opens into the Andaman sea at Tambon Pak Nam.
Krabi Town (Thai: กระบี่) is the main town in the province of Krabi(thesaban mueang) on the west coast of southern Thailand at the mouth of the Krabi River where it empties in Phang Nga Bay. As of 2010 the town had a population of 52,867. The town is the capital of Krabi Province and Krabi District. Tourism is an important industry. Krabi is 783 km south of Bangkok by road.
In Krabi, buses arrive/depart from the bus terminal at Taladkao, about 5km north of town and about 20km from Ao Nang, the reputable tourist beach resort. There is city bus which connects Krabi Taladkao bus terminal and Ao Nang at high frequency departures during the day.
Railay Beach: Some people opt to stay at the nearby Railay Beach hotels which can only be accessed by a water taxi (10 minutes from Ao nang). The benefit is a truly beautiful setting with near exclusive access to one of Krabi's best beaches.
Ao Nang Beach, Krabi. Krabi Town (Thai: กระบี่) is the main town in the province of Krabi(thesaban mueang) on the west coast of southern Thailand at the mouth of the Krabi River where it empties in Phang Nga Bay. As of 2010 the town had a population of 52,867. The town is the capital of Krabi Province and Krabi District. Tourism is an important industry. Krabi is 783 km south of Bangkok by road.
If you are going on Holiday to Krabi,This short video will give you a very good idea of what the beach is like at Hong Island,It is a 30 minuet trip by speed boat from Au Nang beach.
Featured Krabi Hotel 2:: Tubkaak Resort, Krabi. Krabi town is very close to the river mouth that opens to the great Andaman Sea. Krabi river flows about 5 km through the town and opens into the Andaman sea at Tambon Pak Nam.