1 Tree size: This magnolia is a fast-growing tree and is one of the largest (50 to 80 feet) of our native species; spread is comparable to height. 2  Flower and fruit: Three-inch flowers are yellow-green and blend with new foliage. 3  Fruit is a pinkish-red, cob-like seed cone. 
Magnolia grandiflora, commonly known as the southern magnolia or bull bay, is a tree of the family Magnoliaceae native to the southeastern United States, from South Virginia to central Florida, and west to East Texas and Oklahoma. Flower and foliage of M. grandiflora. Magnolia grandiflora is a medium to large evergreen tree which may grow 120 ft (37 m) tall. It typically has a single stem (or trunk) and a pyramidal shape. The leaves are simple and broadly ovate, 12–20 cm (4.7–7.9 in) long and 6–12 cm (2.4–4.7 in) broad, with smooth margins.
Magnolias are a striking variety of flower because the magnolia blossoms are so large. The flower is associated with nobility, perseverance, dignity and a love of nature. The magnolia tree is a symbol of magnificence because of its impressive height and enormous flowers. Editor's Note from Sophia Hansen: This lovely article by Dr. Kitty Bishop reveals the symbolism behind the gorgeous Magnolia flower. Among the many, one of it's symbols is ...sublime, natural and shows love for nature. Magnolias are associated with the life force and are often presented at births..
Magnolia is a genus of flowering trees native to China with many different species distributed across the world. The trees and the trees’ flowers are of cultural significance to various American cultures. The magnolia is prominently featured in Texas. 
Product Description. A profusion of large, white starry shaped flowers bloom in spring with a light fragrance. The dense upright, oval form holds rich-green foliage. A beautiful ornamental tree. Hardy to -40°F. 
Magnolia sieboldii is a spreading tree that bears large, cup-shape white blooms from late spring until late summer. It grows 25 feet tall and 40 feet wide. Zones 6-9. Magnolia soulangeana produces large bowl-shape flowers in shades of pink on bare branches in early spring. 'Bracken's Brown Beauty' magnolia. Magnolia grandiflora 'Bracken's Brown Beauty' is a compact cultivar that grows about 30 feet tall. It is one of the most cold-hardy Southern magnolias availabl
Merrill' is a fast-growing tree to 30 feet and produces white spring flowers at an early age. Zones 5-9. Magnolia 'Elizabeth' displays primrose-yellow blooms that make it a standout in the landscape. This slow-growing tree reaches 25 feet tall and about 15 feet wide. 'Bracken's Brown Beauty' magnolia. Magnolia grandiflora 'Bracken's Brown Beauty' is a compact cultivar that grows about 30 feet tall. It is one of the most cold-hardy Southern magnolias available. Zones 6-9.
The tree stands tall and the flower blossoms are simply gorgeous and vibrant. The magnolia tree is the state tree of Mississippi, and it’s the state flower for both Mississippi and Louisiana (within the United States magnolia trees are native to the southeast). 