The drugstore beetle (Stegobium paniceum), also known as the bread beetle or biscuit beetle, is a tiny, brown beetle that can be found infesting a wide variety of dried plant products, where it is among the most common non-weevils to be found. It is the only member of the monotypic genus Stegobium. 
Introduction. The cigarette beetle is a common insect in Pennsylvania that infests many types of stored products. It often is confused with a related species, the drugstore beetle, Stegobium paniceum (Linnaeus), which is more elongate in proportion to its width and has distinctly striated wing covers. In addition to the above-mentioned items, cigarette beetles also can be found infesting dried pet foods, old rodent baits, and flax tow stuffing in upholstered furniture. Thoroughly clean the area where the infestation was noted and apply an insecticide registered for in-home use into cracks and crevices.
The cigarette beetle is pan-tropical but can be found worldwide -- especially wherever dried tobacco in the form of leaves, cigars, cigarettes, or chewing tobacco is stored. Adults: Cigarette beetles are quite small, measuring about 2 to 3 mm (about 1/8 of an inch), and are reddish brown. Cigarette beetles look almost identical to drugstore beetles but can be distinguished by two easily identifiable characters: the antennae of the cigarette beetle are serrated (like the teeth on a saw) while the antennae of the drugstore beetle are not and end in a 3-segmented club.
Cigarette and drugstore beetles. The drugstore (a) and cigarette beetles are two of the most common stored product-infesting beetles. The cigarette and drugstore beetles (Coleoptera: Anobiidae) are two of the most common pests of stored products in homes. Both species are found throughout the world. The cigarette beetle, Lasioderma serricorne (Fabricius)(Fig. B), is common throughout tropical and subtropical regions, and is commonly found in heated buildings in temperate areas. The drugstore beetle, Stegobium paniceum (Linnaeus) (Fig.
The cigarette beetle may be seen all year, but is most common in fall and winter months. Cigarette beetles have a strange diet of tobacco in any form: tobacco leaves, chewing tobacco, cigars, or cigarettes. It is also known to feed on other stored food products such as paprika and other spices, chili, and even dog food. 
Products used for Cigarette Beetle Infestations. The cigarette beetle is one of the most common household insect pests along the Atlantic Coast and Gulf Coast States. It can be found throughout the year, but seems to be more common in the fall and winter months. The cigarette beetle is native to Egypt. In fact, a beetle was found in King Tutankhamen's tomb!
The larval stages of the cigarette beetle can feed on a variety of stored products including grain, cereal products, pet foods, rat and mouse baits, pasta, ginger, raisins, rice, dates, pepper, dried fish, drugs, belladonna, dried flower arrangements and seeds. The cigarette beetle is one of the most common household insect pests along the Atlantic Coast and Gulf Coast States. It can be found throughout the year, but seems to be more common in the fall and winter months. The cigarette beetle is native to Egypt. In fact, a beetle was found in King Tutankhamen's tomb!
Cigarette Beetles. Cigarette beetles and the drugstore beetle closely resemble one another, but the cigarette beetle is the more common of the two beetles. The Cigarette beetle has a hump-backed appearance. Both of these pantry beetles are external feeders. As an external feeder, they feed on the outside of the grain. 