The α-chains and β-chains combine to form the body of hemoglobin. Usually the α-chains combine with the β-chains rather than α-chains and α-chains while β-chains combine with β-chains. The latter is not expressed before birth. Hemoglobin protein which is found only during fetal development is called gamma (γ). As one oxygen molecule binds to one heme group, the oxygen affinity for the other groups increase. Once an oxygen molecule is released, this stimulates the release of the other oxygen molecules. This makes hemoglobin ideal in transporting and releasing oxygen from lungs to tissues where it is needed.
In mammals, the protein makes up about 96% of the red blood cells' dry content (by weight), and around 35% of the total content (including water). Hemoglobin has an oxygen-binding capacity of 1.34 mL O 2 per gram, which increases the total blood oxygen capacity seventy-fold compared to dissolved oxygen in blood. Carbon dioxide binds to hemoglobin and forms carbaminohemoglobin. This decrease in hemoglobin's affinity for oxygen by the binding of carbon dioxide and acid is known as the Bohr effect (shifts the O 2 -saturation curve to the right).
Hemoglobin is a protein that is carried by red blood cells. Hemoglobin picks up oxygen in the lungs and delivers oxygen to the tissues to maintain cellular viability. As one oxygen molecule binds to one heme group, the oxygen affinity for the other groups increase. Once an oxygen molecule is released, this stimulates the release of the other oxygen molecules. This makes hemoglobin ideal in transporting and releasing oxygen from lungs to tissues where it is needed.
Specifically, the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve relates oxygen saturation (S. 2) and partial pressure of oxygen in the blood (P. 2), and is determined by what is called hemoglobin affinity for oxygen; that is, how readily hemoglobin acquires and releases oxygen molecules into the fluid that surrounds it. (March 2009). The oxygen–hemoglobin dissociation curve, also called the oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve or oxygen dissociation curve (ODC), is a curve that plots the proportion of hemoglobin in its saturated (oxygen-laden) form on the vertical axis against the prevailing oxygen tension on the horizontal axis.
Gas Transport by the Blood. Almost all the oxygen (over 98%) is carried in the blood by attachment to hemoglobin, a protein in the red blood cells. As oxygen is dissolved in the blood, it rapidly combines with the hemoglobin to form oxyhemoglobin. Each hemoglobin molecule can bind up to four oxygen molecules. 
Hemoglobin in the blood carries oxygen from the respiratory organs (lungs or gills) to the rest of the body (i.e. the tissues). There it releases the oxygen to permit aerobic respiration to provide energy to power the functions of the organism in the process called metabolism. Carbon dioxide binds to hemoglobin and forms carbaminohemoglobin. This decrease in hemoglobin's affinity for oxygen by the binding of carbon dioxide and acid is known as the Bohr effect (shifts the O 2 -saturation curve to the right).
oxyhemoglobin. hemoglobin combined with molecular oxygen, the form in which oxygen is transported in the blood. See also hemoglobin. oxyhemoglobin dissociation curve. see hemoglobin-oxygen dissociation curve. 1  Facebook. 
Each hemoglobin molecule is made of four subunits, each containing a heme group that can bind one molecule of oxygen. Therefore, one molecule of hemoglobin can bind four molecules of oxygen. Oxyhemoglobin is hemoglobin bound by oxygen, and it gives oxygen-rich blood a red color. 
Hemoglobin is also found outside red blood cells and their progenitor lines. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney. Carbon dioxide binds to hemoglobin and forms carbaminohemoglobin. This decrease in hemoglobin's affinity for oxygen by the binding of carbon dioxide and acid is known as the Bohr effect (shifts the O 2 -saturation curve to the right).