I was told by a pharmacist that valium and temazepam stay in the system for urine testing 4-5 days, please advise. Expert: nurse_Dan replied 8 years ago. I have mis-spoke the information. If you have been taking valium medication for a lot times months to years the time to clear your urine is 1 to 4 weeks. If you took a single dose of either of these medications the time to clear would be 1 to 3 days. My states about is for if you have been taking them for a long time. Ask Your Own Health Question.
Report Abuse. Valium half life is between 36 and 100 hours, so whatever your metabolism determines, in that time, the concentration would be half of what it was at it's peak. Another half life, it is one fourth of the original level, etc. I would say you would probably be safe in 3-4 days. finaldx · 9 years ago.
Literally addicted to Valium and a few other drugs. Benzodiazapines (such as Valium) can stay in the system for a longer period of time if the patient has been taking them for a long time. In chronic usage cases-Valium will be detectable for up to 30 days. Good luck. 1  Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up.
Resolved Question: how long will 10mg of valium stay in your body. I am 210lbs, had a car accident on Tuesday night, mom gave it to me (only one) for muiscle tension now I have a drug screening on Friday morning. Submitted: 4 years ago. For Valium (diazepam), the detection period is actually much longer (they test for the metabolites, not the drug itself) - approximately 30 days. Ask Your Own Health Question. Expert: Family Physician replied 4 years ago. I was able to locate an article that will give you a very specific answer to the detection period.
Expert: nurse_Dan replied 8 years ago. If you are having a drug test valium is not a good drug to have in your system. It has a very long half life and can stay in your system up to 30 days. Ask Your Own Health Question. Customer: replied 8 years ago. If you have been taking valium medication for a lot times months to years the time to clear your urine is 1 to 4 weeks. If you took a single dose of either of these medications the time to clear would be 1 to 3 days. My states about is for if you have been taking them for a long time
55. The physiological effects of Valium (diazepam) don’t last long, only about 4-6 hours. However, Valium’s long half life keeps Valium in your system for days after you take it. More here on the duration of action for Valium, effects of getting high off Valium with a section for your questions about diazepam at the end.Valium effects on the body and brainValium is used to treat anxiety and muscle spasms. Valium (diazepam) can stay in the body for weeks and can be detected for at least 3 weeks in urine. In some users, Valium may take 6 weeks t o completely clear from the body.
1 Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up. Good luck. 1  Just a note to verify that last statement, Valium stays in your system a LONG time, after taking just 2-3 over a 2 day period, i tested posted for it 1.5-2 wks later. 2  And I am a 35 yr old v. active male, and normally drink lots of fluids...so be careful if you have a test coming up.
182. Valium can stay in your system and be detected in urine for up to 5-7 days after therapeutic use. Chronic use (over one year) of Valium, however, can be detected much longer. The detection window for Valium in urine screens is up to 4-6 weeks. More here on the detection window and drug testing for Valium. We invite your questions about Valium drug screens at the end. Valium half life: how long does Valium stay in your system. The half life of any drug, medication or substance is the period of time necessary for 1/2 the drug to be eliminated or disintegrated by natural processes in the body. The half life of Valium is particularly long, 20-80 hours.