621 BC: Draco's Law. This Greek citizen was chosen to write a code of law for Athens (Greece). The penalty for many offences was death; so severe, that the word draconian comes from his name and has come to mean, in the English language, an unreasonably harsh law. His laws were the first written laws of Greece. The first laws believed to be written down in England were those of the Saxon (German) invader of Kent, King Aethelbert. The Germans tribes had occupied parts of England since the Romans retreated in about 410.
The first written Law Code was the Code of Hammurabi. A second famous Code of Laws was The Ten Commandments given to Moses. (see Exodus XX). The oldest extant law code that … has been found is the law code of Ur-Nammu which dates to around 2100BC (Hammurabi's law code only dates to around 1790BC). The form of the laws follow the if...then... format that is followed in subsequent law codes-such as Hammurabi's.
Many believe that the first ever written down code of laws was Hammurabi's code. Even Jeopardy has assert this fact. However this is incorrect. The oldest extant law code that … has been found is the law code of Ur-Nammu which dates to around 2100BC (Hammurabi's law code only dates to around 1790BC). The form of the laws follow the if...then... format that is followed in subsequent law codes-such as Hammurabi's.
The first written law code in Rome was called the Law of the Twelve Tables. The oldest extant law code that … has been found is the law code of Ur-Nammu which dates to around 2100BC (Hammurabi's law code only dates to around 1790BC). The form of the laws follow the if...then... format that is followed in subsequent law codes-such as Hammurabi's.
An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth.. This phrase, along with the idea of written laws, goes back to ancient Mesopotamian culture that prospered long before the Bible was written or the civilizations of the Greeks or Romans flowered. An eye for an eye ... is a paraphrase of Hammurabi's Code, a collection of 282 laws inscribed on an upright stone pillar. Hammurabi is the best known and most celebrated of all Mesopotamian kings. He ruled the Babylonian Empire from 1792-50 B.C.E. Although he was concerned with keeping order in his kingdom, this was not his only reason for compiling the list of laws.
After the dissolution of the Western Roman Empire, the Justinian Code remained in effect in the Eastern empire, known in the modern era as the Byzantine Empire (331–1453). From the 7th century onward, the legal language in the East was Greek. Roman law also denotes the legal system applied in most of Western Europe until the end of the 18th century. In Germany, Roman law practice remained in place longer under the Holy Roman Empire (963–1806). Roman law thus served as a basis for legal practice throughout Western continental Europe, as well as in most former colonies of these European nations, including Latin America, and also in Ethiopia
The first two centuries of the Empire's existence were a period of unprecedented political stability and prosperity known as the Pax Romana, or Roman Peace. Following Octavian's victory, the size of the Empire was dramatically increased. 
The first written code of law was written in Mesopotamia by King  Hammurabi. The oldest extant law code that … has been found is the law code of Ur-Nammu which dates to around 2100BC (Hammurabi's law code only dates to around 1790BC). The form of the laws follow the if...then... format that is followed in subsequent law codes-such as Hammurabi's.
III.34). According to Roman tradition, the Law of the Twelve Tables (Latin: Leges Duodecim Tabularum or Duodecim Tabulae) was the modern legislation that stood at the foundation of Roman law. The Tables consolidated earlier traditions into an enduring set of laws. The Twelve Tables are sufficiently comprehensive that it has been described as a 'code', although modern scholars consider this characterisation exaggerated. The Tables were a sequence of definitions of various private rights and procedures.
Answers. Best Answer: I think it was the Law of the Twelve Tables, written approximatively about the 451 b.C., with the institution of the decemviri legibus scribundis (all patricians), who were ought to collect all the (oral) juridical tradition in a unique corpus of laws. 