Applying. When applying to Oberlin College, it's important to note the application deadline is January 15, and the early decision deadline is November 15. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due February 1. It is more selective, with an acceptance rate of 32.7 percent. Student Life. Oberlin College has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,961, with a gender distribution of 44.5 percent male students and 55.5 percent female students. At this school, 91 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 9 percent of students live off campus.
Oberlin is a highly selective liberal arts college founded in 1833. We are a community of thinkers, scholars, artists, musicians, and activists who share an intense desire for learning, creation, and engagement. We care about the world, believe we can make it a better place, and have the courage to try. 
Oberlin College Description: Oberlin College is one of the leading liberal arts colleges in the country, and it has a distinguished history as the first college to grant undergraduate degrees to women. Oberlin was the first college to grant undergraduate degrees to women and historically was a leader in the educating of African Americans; its heritage is one of respect for the individual and active concern for the larger society.
Oberlin College is a private institution that was founded in 1833. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,961, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 440 acres. It utilizes a 4-1-4-based academic calendar. Student Life. Oberlin College has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,961, with a gender distribution of 44.5 percent male students and 55.5 percent female students. At this school, 91 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 9 percent of students live off campus.
By Allen Grove. Oberlin College is one of the leading liberal arts colleges in the country, and it has a distinguished history as the first college to grant undergraduate degrees to women. Oberlin was the first college to grant undergraduate degrees to women and historically was a leader in the educating of African Americans; its heritage is one of respect for the individual and active concern for the larger society.
Hi, Dave72, Oberlin's RD admittance rate is 38%, but last year's ED admittance rate was 68%, at least according to the Admissions Director for the Western Region. Early decision comes out in 12 days. Therainman: Note that Oberlin's overall admit rate is 38% (not 68%). I think you have a good shot at ED. Good luck.
, and the strengths of the College of Arts and Sciences earned Oberlin a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. Arts and Sciences has an 11 to 1 student / faculty ratio. The college is located in Oberlin, Ohio, 35 miles southwest of Cleveland. Oberlin was the first college to grant undergraduate degrees to women and historically was a leader in the educating of African Americans; its heritage is one of respect for the individual and active concern for the larger society.
The in-state tuition at this school is $48,054, which is 351% more expensive than the average for all Music Schools. Applying. Oberlin College has an acceptance rate of 30%, which is 37% lower than the average for all Music Schools. The average SAT score at Oberlin College is 2040 points. The average ACT score at Oberlin College is 32 points. 
Overall Oberlin College Acceptance Rate-Fall 2013. 30.4%. The overall acceptance rate for Oberlin College was reported as 30.4% in Fall 2013 with over 7,440 college applications submitted to this school. Both in state and out of state applicants are included in these figures. We do not have data on transfer acceptance rates currently. 