Michael Dell is the richest person in Texas. Michael Dell is the second richest person in Texas. Alice Walton, export from Bentonville, Arkansas Wal-Mart clan, is the richest person in Texas by approx. $2.6 Billion as of March 2008...with a Net Worth of $19 Billion.
Houston billionaires Richard Kinder and Jeffrey Hildebrand were once again among the top 100 on Forbes’ magazines Richest People in America list. However, Landry’s Inc. CEO Tilman Fertitta is new to the list. Four of the richest Houstonians on the list are in the same family. Houston oilman Dan Duncan ’s heirs, Dannine Avarara, Scott Duncan, Milana Frantz and Randa Williams, all tie for the No. 72 position on the list, and each is worth $4.7 billion. Bill Gates is No. 1 yet again, and 46 Texas billionaires made
Michael Prince for Forbes. Although some of the 12 Houston billionaires to make the Forbes magazine’s Richest People in America list shuffled ranks, Kinder Morgan Inc.’s (NYSE: KMI) chairman and CEO continues to lead the local pack. Richard Kinder is the highest-ranked Houstonian on the list, at No. 68. Mitchell passed away earlier this year. Yet again, four of the richest Houstonians on the list are in the same family. Houston oilman Dan Duncan ’s heirs — Dannine Avarara, Scott Duncan, Milana Frantz and Randa Williams — all tie for the No. 77 position on the list, and each is worth $5.5 billion.
Michael Dell is the richest person in Texas.       Michael Dell is the second richest person in Texas. Alice Walton, export from Bentonville, Arkansas Wal-Mart cl … an, is the richest person in Texas by approx. $2.6 Billion as of March 2008...with a Net Worth of $19 Billion.
Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. Parade magazine released a list of the richest person in each state in America. Of course Bill Gates and Warren Buffet made the list, but a few of the names might surprise you. See who the richest person in Texas is below. And no, it’s not Mark Cuban or Jerry Jones. Thinkstock. According to Parade, the richest person in Texas is the CEO of Dell Inc., Michael Dell. Yep,thatDell, like the one you’re probably typing on now. Apparently those computers racked up a cool $16 billion for Mr. Dell
Houston’s richest man again is Richard Kinder, chairman and CEO of Kinder Morgan Inc. (NYSE: KMI). His net worth increased to $9.4 billion, up from $6.4 billion as of the previous list. Kinder now is the No. 36 richest person in America, up from No. 46 on the previous list. Four of the richest Houstonians on the list are in the same family. Houston oilman Dan Duncan ’s heirs, Dannine Avarara, Scott Duncan, Milana Frantz and Randa Williams, all tie for the No. 72 position on the list, and each is worth $4.7 billion. Bill Gates is No. 1 yet again, and 46 Texas billionaires made the
Courtesy Souper Bowl of Caring. Houston's richest man is now among the 100 wealthiest people in the world. Rich Kinder, the 70-year-old chairman and CEO of Kinder Morgan, jumped 30 spots in the latest Forbes list of the world's billionaires, released Monday, to No. 100 in the exclusive rankings. 