Igneous rocks are formed when the magma becomes solid. The igneous rocks that form above the surface are called volcanic or extrusive igneous rocks. Those that crystallize below the surface are called plutonic or intrusive igneous rocks. The concept map shows how igneous rocks form. Intrusive Igneous Rocks: A rock formed when magma cools below the surface. These rocks tend to have large, visible crystals because the magma cooled slowly. Return to text. Lava: What geologists call magma when it erupts from a volcano.
Igneous is used to describe rocks that crystallize out of hot molten material in the Earth called magma. When magma pushes up through Earth's crust to the surface, it is called lava. Both magma and lava cool and harden to form igneous rocks. 
Background: The term igneous comes from the Latin ignis, meaning fire. Igneous is used to describe rocks that crystallize out of hot molten material in the Earth called magma. When magma pushes up through Earth's crust to the surface, it is called lava. Both magma and lava cool and harden to form igneous rocks. Extrusive igneous rocks come from lava. Lava, at the surface, is exposed to air and water which causes the molten rock to cool rapidly. Solidifying rocks at the surface cool too quickly for large crystals to form. Molecules in the lava do not have time to arrange themselves to form large crystals.
Coarse grained intrusive igneous rocks which form deep in the crust are termed as abyssal and those that form near the surface are called hypabyssal. Extrusive igneous rocks are formed at the crust’s surface as a result of the partial melting of rocks within the mantle and crust. Extrusive igneous rocks cool and solidify quicker than intrusive igneous rocks and are fine grained.
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust
As these pockets of magma cool slowly they become igneous rocks. Igneous rocks are also formed when volcanoes erupt. Igneous rocks are formed as the lava cools above ground. The upper 16 km of the Earth’s crust is composed of 95% igneous rock. Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies underground. Extrusive igneous rocks are formed at the crust’s surface as a result of the partial melting of rocks within the mantle and crust. Extrusive igneous rocks cool and solidify quicker than intrusive igneous rocks and are fine grained.
The answer to how are igneous rocks formed is pretty straight forward: Igneous rocks are called fire rocks and are formed either underground or above ground. Underground, they are formed when magma deep within the Earth becomes trapped in small pockets. Extrusive igneous rocks are formed at the crust’s surface as a result of the partial melting of rocks within the mantle and crust. Extrusive igneous rocks cool and solidify quicker than intrusive igneous rocks and are fine grained.
1 Igneous Rocks: form by crystallizing melted material (magma). 2  They can form either on the surface (extrusive igneous rocks), or deep in the crust (intrusive or plutonic igneous rocks). 3  Volcanoes are places where magma erupts as lava or ash. Metamorphic rocks: 1  form by recrystallization of either igneous or sedimentary rocks. 2  This happens when the temperature, pressure or fluid environment change and a rock changes its form (e.g. limestone turns to marble).
An Igneous rock is the product of cooled solidified magma/lava. As magma/lava cools it goes through the process of crystallization which turns it into an igneous rock. The amount of time it takes for an igneous rock to form depends on its location and its composition. 
Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks.