When to test your blood sugar. Your doctor will advise you on how often you should check your blood sugar level. In general, the frequency of testing depends on the type of diabetes you have and your treatment plan. 1  Type 1 diabetes. 2  Your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing four to eight times a day if you have type 1 diabetes. 1 You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 2  Type 2 diabetes. 3  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need.
1 Fasting glucose (fasting blood glucose, FBG) – this test measures the level of glucose in the blood after fasting for at least 8 hours. 2  2-hour glucose tolerance test (GTT) – for this test, the person has a fasting glucose test done (see above), then drinks a 75-gram glucose drink. In a person with signs and symptoms of diabetes or hyperglycemia, a non-fasting glucose level (random blood sample) that is equal to or greater than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) indicates diabetes. The following information summarizes the meaning of other test results.
HbA1C (A1C or glycosylated hemoglobin test) The A1C can be used for the diagnosis of both prediabetes and diabetes. The A1C test measures your average blood glucose control for the past 2 to 3 months. This test is more convenient because no fasting is required. If your blood glucose levels are in normal range, testing should be done about every three years. If you have prediabetes, you should be checked for diabetes every one to two years after diagnosis.
1 Type 2 diabetes. 2  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need. 3  Testing is usually recommended before meals, and sometimes before bedtime. 1 You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 2  Type 2 diabetes. 3
A glucose test measures the amount of glucose in your blood. Glucose, also known as sugar, is your body’s main source of energy. Your body converts the carbohydrates you eat into glucose. Glucose testing is done primarily to check for type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, and gestational diabetes. Diabetes is a condition that causes your blood glucose to rise. In healthy individuals, the glucose level is managed in the body by a hormone called insulin
The blood glucose test may be used to: 1  Detect high blood glucose (hyperglycemia) and low blood glucose (hypoglycemia). 2  Screen for diabetes in people who are at risk before signs and symptoms are apparent; in some cases, there may be no early signs or symptoms of diabetes. In a person with signs and symptoms of diabetes or hyperglycemia, a non-fasting glucose level (random blood sample) that is equal to or greater than 200 mg/dL (11.1 mmol/L) indicates diabetes. The following information summarizes the meaning of other test results.
This test may also be used to screen a person for diabetes. High blood sugar and diabetes may not cause symptoms in the early stages. A fasting blood sugar test is almost always done to screen for diabetes. If you are over age 45, you should be tested every 3 years. Normal Results. If you had a fasting blood glucose test, a level between 70 and 100 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) is considered normal. If you had a random blood glucose test, a normal result depends on when you last ate. Most of the time, the blood glucose level will be below 125 mg/dL.
Blood sugar tests include several different tests that measure the amount of sugar (glucose) in a person's blood. These tests are performed either on an empty stomach, or after consuming a meal or pre-measured glucose drink. Blood sugar tests are done primarily to diagnose and evaluate a person with diabetes mellitus. 
1 Type 1 diabetes. 2  Your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing four to eight times a day if you have type 1 diabetes. 3  You may need to test before meals and snacks, before and after exercise, before bed, and occasionally during the night. 1 You may also need to check your blood sugar level more often if you are ill, change your daily routine or begin a new medication. 2  Type 2 diabetes. 3  If you take insulin to manage type 2 diabetes, your doctor may recommend blood sugar testing two or more times a day, depending on the type and amount of insulin you need.
Random blood sugar; Blood sugar level; Fasting blood sugar; Glucose test. Last reviewed: August 5, 2014. A blood glucose test measures the amount of a sugar called glucose in a sample of your blood. Glucose is a major source of energy for most cells of the body, including brain cells. Carbohydrates are found in fruit, cereal, bread, pasta, and rice. Normal Results. If you had a fasting blood glucose test, a level between 70 and 100 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) is considered normal. If you had a random blood glucose test, a normal result depends on when you last ate. Most of the time, the blood glucose level will be below 125 mg/dL.