allele frequency. The allele frequency represents the incidence of a gene variant in a population. Alleles are variant forms of a gene that are located at the same position, or genetic locus, on a chromosome. Allele frequencies can be represented as a decimal, a percentage, or a fraction. In a population, allele frequencies are a reflection of genetic diversity. Changes in allele frequencies over time can indicate that genetic drift is occurring or that new mutations have been introduced into the
Microevolution is the change in allele frequencies that occur over time within a population. Migration into or out of a population can change allele frequencies, as well as introducing genetic variation into a population. Immigration may add new genetic material to the established gene pool of a population. Conversely, emigration may remove genetic material.
Evolution is, the change in allele frequency over time in a population of organisms. A genetic drift is a random change in allele frequency over time  that is brought about by chances.
Allele frequency, or gene frequency, is the relative frequency of an allele (variant of a gene) at a particular locus in a population, expressed as a fraction or percentage. Specifically, it is the fraction of all chromosomes in the population that carry that allele. If, , and are the frequencies of the three genotypes at a locus with two alleles, then the frequency p of the A-allele and the frequency q of the B-allele in the population are obtained by counting alleles.
However the change in frequency of alleles in a population's gene pool is the definition of an evolving population. It is true that selection establishes some alleles and eliminates others. This is never a complete loss. The change in allele frequency in a population of time has been observed, quantified, and put to use in agriculture. Not only is it a good definition, but those who try to deny it depend upon it, nonetheless.
An allele frequency is calculated by dividing the number of times the allele of interest is observed in a population by the total number of copies of all the alleles at that particular genetic locus in the population. Allele frequencies can be represented as a decimal, a percentage, or a fraction. In a population, allele frequencies are a reflection of genetic diversity. Changes in allele frequencies over time can indicate that genetic drift is occurring or that new mutations have been introduced into the population.
The allele frequency is distinct from the genotype frequency, although they are related, and allele frequencies can be calculated from genotype frequencies. In population genetics, allele frequencies are used to describe the amount of variation at a particular locus or across multiple loci. When considering the ensemble of allele frequencies for a large number of distinct loci, their distribution is called the allele frequency spectrum. If, , and are the frequencies of the three genotypes at a locus with two alleles, then the frequency p of the A-allele and the frequency q of the B-allele in the population are obtained by counting alleles.