Regeneration: In biological terms it means to recreate lost or damaged tissues. In geographical terms it means improving an area that has been experiencing a period of decline. In the east end of London the decline was bought about be deindustrialisation. The area of London that is seeing the most regeneration because of the Olympics is the borough of Newham. This area is sometimes referred to as the Lower Lea Valley, because Newham is situated at the end of the River Lea. The borough of Newham has a population of about 270,000.
Rejuvenation. Rejuvenation occurs when there is either a fall inn sea level relative to the level of the land or a rise pf the land relative to the sea. This enables a river to renew its capacity to erode as its potential energy is increased. 
Medical Definition of REGENERATION. 1. : an act or the process of regenerating: the state of being regenerated. 2. : spiritual renewal or revival. 3. : renewal or restoration of a body, bodily part, or biological system (as a forest) after injury or as a normal process. 4. 
An example of an exam question, and how to structure your answer because there is a lot of information. This is very full on and very long,... The Three Gorges Dam, Yangtze River, China. In the IGCSE Geography Specification, you're meant to know a case study for a dam or reservoir project, and I learnt this, so...: ... IGCSE Geography. This is for IGCSE Geography (EDEXCEL). The topics I've done are: River + Hazardous + Urban + Fragile Environments; Economic Activity and Energy. Clicking on the labels at the end of a post will show you all the posts linked to that topic. It'll make using this blog easier since I didn't post in a defined order
Urban regeneration: the investment of capital in the revival of old, urban areas by either improving what is there or clearing it away and rebuilding. Urban re-imaging: changing the image of an urban area and the way people view it. IGCSE Geography. This is for IGCSE Geography (EDEXCEL). The topics I've done are: River + Hazardous + Urban + Fragile Environments; Economic Activity and Energy. Clicking on the labels at the end of a post will show you all the posts linked to that topic. It'll make using this blog easier since I didn't post in a defined order
Deprived areas of the UK were made UDCs to try and encourage regeneration. UDCs had the powers to give tax breaks, relax planning, help with finance etc. The Docklands area of London (next to the Olympic Park) area was made a UDC back in the 1980's to help regeneration. Deprived: An area that is relatively poor. The area of London that is seeing the most regeneration because of the Olympics is the borough of Newham. This area is sometimes referred to as the Lower Lea Valley, because Newham is situated at the end of the River Lea. The borough of Newham has a population of about 270,000.
As far as i know this is the definition i found from AQA: Property-led regeneration involves the regeneration of an inner-city area by changing the image of the area, improving the environment, attracting private investment and improving confidence for further investment. Definition: Property-led regeneration projects are the inwards movement of people due to a large scale investment programme focused upon urban regeneration concerning financial, social and physical changes.
Noun. 1. regeneration - (biology) growth anew of lost tissue or destroyed parts or organs. biological science, biology-the science that studies living organisms. morphallaxis-regeneration on a reduced scale of a body part; observed especially in invertebrates such as certain lobsters. Why, to maintain this theory of the regeneration of mankind by means of the pursuit of his own advantage is to my mind almost the same thing. Notes from the Underground by Dostoyevsky, Fyodor View in context. Deep unspeakable suffering may well be called a baptism, a regeneration, the initiation into a new state.