Find Yasin meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Yasin name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Yasin. 
Yasmin /yas-min/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced yahz-MEEN. It is of Arabic and Persian origin, and the meaning of Yasmin is jasmine flower. Yasamin is the original form. Actress Yasmine Bleeth; princess Yasmin Aga Khan; model Yasmin Le Bon. See also Jasmine. 
Arabic form of Ya'aqov (see JACOB). YASER m Persian, Turkish, Arabic. Persian and Turkish form of YASIR, as well as a variant transcription of the Arabic name. YASIN ياسين m Arabic. From the Arabic letters ي (called ya) and س (called sin) ... [more]. YASIR ياسر m Arabic, Pakistani, Urdu. Means to be rich, derived from Arabic يسر (yasira) to become easy ... Arabic names are used in the Arab world, as well as some other Muslim regions. They are not necessarily of Arabic origin, though most in fact are. Compare also Iranian names and Turkish names. See also about Arabic names. Refine Search.
A List of the Names of the Surah (Chapters) of the Holy Quran: In the following list, the Surah (Chapter) name appears in Arabic followed by its English translation in brackets: 1  Al-Fatihah (The Opening). 2  Al-Baqarah (The Cow). 3  Al-'Imran (The Family of Amran). 4  An-Nisa' (The Women). 5  Al-Ma'idah (The Food). 
[ syll. yas-si-ne, ya-ss-ine ] The baby boy name Yassine is pronounced as Y AE S-iyN- †. Yassine is used mostly in Arabic and it is also of Arabic origin. Yassine is a derivative of the Arabic and Turkish name Yasin. Yassine is also a derivative of the Arabic name Yassin. Yassine is uncommon as a baby boy name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
[ syll. yas-sin, ya-ss-in ] The baby boy name Yassin is pronounced as Y AE S-ihN †. Yassin's origin, as well as its use, is in the Arabic language. Yassin is a variant of the name Yasin (Arabic and Turkish). The name Yassine (Arabic) is a variant of Yassin. Yassin is an uncommon baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 
Everyone has a name, but most people have a vague idea what their name means. This site is for those who want to discover name meanings, origins, distribution accross the globe, anagrams, misspells, common name combinations and many other name-related things. 
Yasin Name Meaning. Muslim: from Arabic ya sin, the first two letters at the beginning of sura 36 of the Qur’an, endowed with mystic significance, being interpreted as a divine address to the Prophet Muhammad. This is a popular personal name throughout the Islamic world. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Yasin ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Yasin ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Yasin birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Yasin ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Yasin ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.