Forgotten Supervisor password. A forgotten Supervisor password will prevent access to the ThinkPad BIOS setup utility. To regain access, the system will need to be serviced to have the system board and hard drive replaced. Proof of purchase is required, and this repair is not covered under the warranty. I've tried everything possible to reset the supervisor password on my Lenovo B570 laptop: looking for a non-existent CMOS battery, trying to run some of those software tools that are supposed to give you the answer, etc. Everything.
How to clear an unknown BIOS or CMOS password. Note: The steps below are for a desktop computer and do not include steps on how to clear a laptop CMOS password. Sometimes, users encounter a password prompt at boot or the BIOS or CMOS setup is locked (as can be seen in the image below). If you do not know the BIOS password, you'll need to clear it. The following sections contain instructions on how to do so using multiple methods. 
What can you do if the power-on password and the supervisor password to a system have been forgotten? Bios jumpers 1, 2 are closed normal boot. Bios jumpers 2, 3 are closed it resets power-on password and the supervisor password on reboot. 
To change a bios password, all you need to do is go back to the security tab and access the supervisor password option. Once the new window opens up, you will be required to enter the current password and type in the new password twice. In this way, you can change the current bios password. In this tutorial we will guide you on how to Create, Disable and Change a Bios Password. Don't forget to check out our site http://howtech.tv/ for more free how-to videos! http://youtube.com/ithowtovids-our feed. http://www.facebook.com/howtechtv-join us on facebook.
3. Move the jumper. To reset the BIOS password, you will need to move the jumper that is covering two of the three pins. On most systems, moving the jumper over one pin will change it. For example if the jumper is covering pins 1 & 2, move it so that it is covering pins 2 & 3. 
When it is required, if you know your BIOS password it can be removed by following the steps below. Removing a BIOS password: 1  Power on the system. 2  As soon as the first logo screen appears, immediately press the F2 key, or the DEL key if you have a desktop, to enter the BIOS. 3  Use the arrow keys to navigate to Security or BIOS Security Features. 1 Highlight Set Supervisor Password or Change Supervisor Password and press the ENTER key. 2  You will be prompted to enter your current password. 3  After you will be prompted to enter a new password, and a second time to verify it.
1 Power on the system. 2  As soon as the first logo screen appears, immediately press the F2 key, or the DEL key if you have a desktop, to enter the BIOS. 3  Use the arrow keys to navigate to Security or BIOS Security Features. 4  Highlight Set Supervisor Password or Change Supervisor Password and press the ENTER key. 1 Highlight Set Supervisor Password or Change Supervisor Password and press the ENTER key. 2  You will be prompted to enter your current password. 3  After you will be prompted to enter a new password, and a second time to verify it.
Supervisor Password: Enable and change this password to prevent someone from changing these BIOS settings in the future. For example, if you don't want someone booting from a CD or external drive on one of your work systems, first disable those options in the Boot menu, and then enable the password here. (They'll just install it in another PC and boot from a different disk.) You should enable hard drive encryption for the best protection against data thieves. But also use additional BIOS tricks enable more layers of security, asking for another password to boot, access the drive, or change BIOS settings.
Press F10 to save it and select Yes to exit, your laptop will log on automatically. 6. Ensure a reset. It is challenging if you forget a BIOS password. Rest the BIOS password using standard BIOS backdoor passwords to reset BIOS password. 