Salicylates are ubiquitous agents found in hundreds of over-the-counter (OTC) medications and in numerous prescription drugs, making salicylate toxicity an important cause of morbidity and mortality. (See Epidemiology.). Salicylate is used as an analgesic agent for the treatment of mild to moderate pain. Salicylate ingestion continues to be a common cause of poisoning in children and adolescents. The prevalence of aspirin-containing analgesic products makes these agents, found in virtually every household, common sources of unintentional and suicidal ingestion.
Description. Aspirin is used in the treatment of mild to moderate pain, inflammation, and fever. It is also used as an antiplatelet agent to prevent myocardial infarction, stroke and transient ischemic episodes. Aspirin is absorbed rapidly from the stomach and intestine by passive diffusion. Aspirin is a prodrug, which is transformed into salicylate in the stomach, in the intestinal mucosa, in the blood and mainly in the liver. 
1 Absorption: Salicylates are readily absorbed in the unionised form from the small intestine. 2  Metabolism: The major route of biotransformation is conjugation with glycine in the liver. 3  Excretion: The amount of drug excreted unchanged in the urine is small but can be markedly increased if urine is alkaline. This second disorder is uncommon in children. Adults: Metabolic acidosis AND Respiratory alkalosis. Children: Metabolic acidosis. Regarding pharmacokinetics of salicylate: 1 
Activated charcoal can limit further gut absorption by binding to the available salicylates. The recommended initial dose of activated charcoal is 1 g/kg of body weight to a maximum of 50 g in children and 1-2 g/kg to a maximum of 100 g in adults. The minimum dose is 30 g. Principles of treatment include stabilizing the ABCs as necessary, limiting absorption, enhancing elimination, correcting metabolic abnormalities, and providing supportive care. No specific antidote is available for
any salt or ester of salicylic acid. The salicylates used as drugs for their analgesic, antipyretic and anti-inflammatory effects include aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid, ASA), methyl salicylate and sodium salicylate. Low dosages of salicylates are used primarily for the relief of mild-to-moderate pain or fever. Methyl salicylate can be absorbed through the skin in amounts capable of causing systemic toxicity. Another salicylate, salicylic acid, is too irritating to be used systemically and is used topically as a keratolytic agent, for example, for removing warts. See also salicylic acid
Methyl salicylate creams and topical forms of aspirin are absorbed into the body through the skin. After oral forms of salicylates are ingested, they are converted to salicylic acid, absorbed in the stomach and small intestine and transferred into the blood stream. They are metabolized by the liver and eliminated from the body in the urine within a few hours. They are often used to relieve pain and inflammation, to reduce fever, and to prevent excessive clotting. Salicylate testing measures the concentration in the blood to detect and/or monitor an overdose (salicylate poisoning).
Aspirin, also known as acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is a salicylate medication, often used to treat pain, fever, and inflammation. Aspirin also has an antiplatelet effect by stopping the binding together of platelets and preventing a patch over damaged walls of blood vessels. 
Know the four basic therapeutic uses for aspirin.2. Know the major routes of absorption for salicylates and the plasma half-life of aspirinand of salicylic acid. 3. Know the basic reaction by which aspirin is inactivated.4. Understand how urine pH can affect the excretion of free salicylic acid.5. 
Excretion Salicylates are excreted in the urine as free salicylic acid (10%), salicyluric acid (75%), salicylic phenolic (10%) and acyl (5%) glucuronides, and gentisic acid (less than 1%). However, excretion of free salicylate is extremely variable and depends upon both the dose and the urinary pH. 