Mild cigars are recommended for beginners because more full-flavored cigars often taste too strong (or just plain bad) to new smokers. A mild cigar is typically less expensive, so you do not have to worry about ruining an expensive cigar by incorrectly lighting it or cutting too much of the end off. It has a number of similarities to the more expensive and popular Macanudo. Helix cigars are can also be obtained as artificially flavored cigars called Helix Remix, which are also great for new cigar smokers. When it comes to knowing what to look for in a mild cigar; well, that that is simple.
Through the considerable haze of smoke we finally can see the winners emerge: Cigar Aficionado has chosen the Top 25 Cigars of 2014. We smoked 737 cigars to get to the 25 that made this list, and the process was a thorough one. As the year drew to a close, we reviewed the list of cigars that had scored at least 91 points in Cigar Aficionado or Cigar Insider blind taste tests throughout the past year. 
Cohiba. Cohiba has a peculiar history that adds to the mystique of the brand. This cigar grew out of the personal cigar tastes of Fidel Castro, and his endorsement made this a treasured cigar brand. It is special in more ways than one as. 3 Legendary Cuban Cigar Brands. Some Cuban cigar brands have become legendary. Along with being the pride of Cuba, several have become a common language between cigar connoisseurs the world over. To pay home to three of our favorites (Cohiba, Romeo y Julieta and Montecristo), we will give you what sets these apart.
Cohiba is a brand for two kinds of premium cigar, one produced in Cuba for Habanos S.A. , the Cuban state-owned tobacco company, and the other produced in the Dominican Republic for US-based General Cigar Company. The name cohiba cohíba derives from The taino taíno  word .. for tobacco Habanos SA have used their Cohiba brand name for non-cigar products, manufacturing Cohiba cigarettes since 1987 and Extra Cohiba Cognac since 1999. In 1992 approximately 3.4 million cigars were produced in Cuba bearing the Cohiba label, out of a total Cuban cigar export production of approximately 60 million pieces.
What is a good Cuban cigar. The debate has raged on for a very long time over which is the best Cuban cigar. The fact of the matter is, there are so many different and amazing Cuban cigar brands (Cohiba, Montecristo, Partagas, etc) for you to choose from that it is impossible to choose just one. It has a lot to do with your personal taste because every cigar is going to be a little bit different
CAO is another worldwide bestselling cigar brand. CAO Gold Vintage cigars are enclosed in Ecuadorian Connecticut wrappers grown in 2004, a particularly good year (I wonder how they manage to keep producing cigars with this wrapper though), with a combination of Cuban-seed Honduran and Nicaraguan tobacco inside. 
Bear in mind that taste is subjective and body and flavor are separate entities. You can have a mild cigar with a lot of flavor and a full-bodied cigar with very little flavor. As always, it comes down to the blend and what you are looking for in a good cigar. Mild Bodied Cigars. If you are new to cigar smoking, a mild cigar may be the best choice to start out with. Most new smokers may consider the taste of a full-flavored premium cigar too strong. However, there is misconception that mild cigars are only for beginning smokers.
With these tips in mind, here are five quality cigars for every type of smoker out there. 1- CAO Gold. CAO Gold is the perfect answer to your cigar needs, if you are looking to start with a classic cigar blend. This cigar is currently one of the best-selling brands in the country. It is a perfectly mild, Nicaraguan cigar that features a creamy smoke that simply swirls in your mouth. The size. The next thing to consider is size. The size of the cigar has some effect on the flavor, but should be factored in from a time standpoint more than anything. For example, a cigar for the golf course can be up to seven inches and be perfect because you will have a couple of hours to work your way through it.
This is an alphabetical list of cigar brands. Included is information about the company owning the brand name as well as a column allowing easy viewing of the source of that information. If a brand name begins with the English word The or its Spanish equivalents, El, La, Los, and Las, that first word is disregarded. 
Whether it's a satisfying smoke after dinner, during a round of golf, or out at the bar for drinks, cigars are the perfect complement to your lifestyle because that is exactly what defines cigar smoking — your lifestyle. Welcome to the good life. The size. The next thing to consider is size. The size of the cigar has some effect on the flavor, but should be factored in from a time standpoint more than anything. For example, a cigar for the golf course can be up to seven inches and be perfect because you will have a couple of hours to work your way through it.