Ice Cream. The main difference is that gelato is a healthy alternative to ice cream, having less than half the fat. Ice cream can contain up to 22% fat. Mauro’s gelato contains between 0% and 8% fat. Another difference is that ice cream is generally produced using a limited number of ingredients, Mauro can make gelato out of anything, from avocados to dried fruit to yams to hazelnuts. A Family Tradition Since 1957. The main difference is that gelato is a healthy alternative to ice cream, having less than half the fat. Ice cream can contain up to 22% fat. Mauro’s gelato contains between 0% and 8% fat.
Gelato can be made with milk, cream, various sugars, and flavoring such as fresh fruit and nut purees. It is generally lower in calories, fat and sugar than other styles of ice cream. Gelato is a type of soft ice cream containing a relatively small amount of air. By statute, gelato in Italy must have at least 3.5% butterfat, with no upper limit established.
Answer: Whereas ice cream is a dairy product Gelato can be both dairy and non-dairy. Ice cream can contain high amounts of butterfat and air. Compared to ice cream, traditional dairy Gelato is lower in butterfat, and overrun or air content. 
Many ask how gelato is different from ice cream. The main difference between gelato and ice cream is that not all flavors of gelato contain dairy, but for those flavors that do, they are made with 2% milk. This results in a product that contains approximately 60% less fat and calories than American ice cream, that is made with heavy cream. 
Gelato is the Italian word for ice cream, and although it may seem similar to ice cream, gelato has an entirely different origin and production process. Talenti gelato is particularly special, because we make it from scratch with only the finest ingredients imported from around the world. Sorbetto is the Italian word for Sorbet – both are a frozen dessert made of fruit, fruit juice, and/or fruit puree and ice (and does not contain dairy). They taste 100% fresh and 100% delicious!
Fabbri offers a series products that contain no milk or dairy products and which may be used to prepare excellent, safe Italian gelato. Lactose intolerance relates to a series of symptoms that can occur due to an inability to digest lactose, which is the primary sugar found in milk and dairy products. Lactose intolerant, have some gelato! Lactose intolerance is, unfortunately, all too common. Don’t deny your customers the pleasure of a good, safe gelato.
Fabbri has a wide range of products for ice cream and gelato that are free of dairy products of animal origin (milk, buttermilk, cream, butter, etc.) and dairy components (protein such as casein, lactalbumine, etc.). Lactose intolerant, have some gelato! Lactose intolerance is, unfortunately, all too common. Don’t deny your customers the pleasure of a good, safe gelato.
Gelato Vs. The main difference is that gelato is a healthy alternative to ice cream, having less than half the fat. Ice cream can contain up to 22% fat. Mauro’s gelato contains between 0% and 8% fat. Another difference is that ice cream is generally produced using a limited number of ingredients, Mauro can make gelato out of anything, from avocados to dried fruit to yams to hazelnuts. A Family Tradition Since 1957. The main difference is that gelato is a healthy alternative to ice cream, having less than half the fat. Ice cream can contain up to 22% fat. Mauro’s gelato contains between 0% and 8% fat.