Malaria. Malaria is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium, which is transmitted via the bites of infected mosquitoes. In the human body, the parasites multiply in the liver, and then infect red blood cells. 
A. When you're bitten by a malaria-infected mosquito, the parasites that cause malaria are released into your blood and infect your liver cells. The parasite reproduces in the liver cells, which then burst open. What Happens. When you're bitten by a malaria-infected mosquito, the parasites that cause malaria are released into your blood and infect your liver cells. The parasite reproduces in the liver cells, which then burst open.
Other common symptoms of malaria include: 1  Dry (nonproductive) cough. 2  Muscle or back pain or both. 3  Enlarged spleen. In the early stages, malaria symptoms are sometimes similar to those of many other infections caused by bacteria, viruses, or parasites. Symptoms may include: 1  Fever.
Symptoms of malaria infection. Malaria can occur despite taking anti-malarial drugs and symptoms of malaria infection usually occur within 9 to 14 days. The general symptoms include: 1  headache. 2  nausea. 3  fever. 4  vomiting and. 5  flu-like symptoms. List of symptoms. Malaria causes a flu-like illness and these would include. 1  fever. 2  rigors. 3  headaches. 4  sweating. 5  tiredness. 6  myalgia (limbs and back). 7  abdominal pain. 8  diarrhea.
Symptoms of Malaria: Introduction. The symptoms of malaria can resemble symptoms of influenza. They include fever, chills, nausea, headache, and fatigue. The signs and symptoms of malaria are related to the reproduction of the malaria parasites in the liver and the spread of them into the bloodstream. 
Definitions and symptoms. As the malaria parasites enter the blood stream they infect and destroy red blood cells. Destruction of these essential cells leads to fever and flu-like symptoms, such as chills, headache, muscle aches, tiredness, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. 
Common symptoms of malaria. In the early stages, malaria symptoms are sometimes similar to those of many other infections caused by bacteria, viruses, or parasites. Symptoms may include: 1  Fever. 2  Chills. 3  Headache. 4  Sweats. 5  Fatigue. 6  Nausea and vomiting
Malaria-symptoms, treatment and prevention. Malaria is caused by a parasite called Plasmodium. There are 5 species of Plasmodium which infect humans: 1  Plasmodium vivax. 2  Plasmodium falciparum. 3  Plasmodium malariae. 4  Plasmodium ovale. 5  Plasmodium knowlesi which is less common. Signs and symptoms. Symptoms of malaria may include: 1  fever, which may come and go, or may be constant. 2  chills. 3  profuse sweating. 4  malaise (feeling of unwellness). 5  muscle and joint pain. 6  headache. 7  confusion. 8  nausea.