1. endothelium-an epithelium of mesoblastic origin; a thin layer of flattened cells that lines the inside of some body cavities. epithelial tissue, epithelium-membranous tissue covering internal organs and other internal surfaces of the body. Translations. endothelium. n, pl-lia (-lɪə). 1. (Anatomy) a tissue consisting of a single layer of cells that lines the blood and lymph vessels, heart, and some other cavities. [C19: New Latin, from endo- + -thelium, from Greek thēlē nipple].
In vascular diseases, endothelial dysfunction is a systemic pathological state of the endothelium (the inner lining of blood vessels) and can be broadly defined as an imbalance between vasodilating and vasoconstricting substances produced by (or acting on) the endothelium. Endothelial dysfunction is more prevalent in shift workers, a group known to have a higher risk for cardiovascular diseases.
Definition of ENDOTHELIUM. 1. : an epithelium of mesodermal origin composed of a single layer of thin flattened cells that lines internal body cavities and the lumens of vessels. 2. : the inner layer of the seed coat of some plants. — en·do·the·li·al \-lē-əl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT
endothelial cell. The type of epithelial cell that lines blood vessels and lymph vessels; these cells are usually squamous (flattened) and form sheets one layer thick. Endothelial cells are derived from mesenchyme cells of the embryo. A sheet of endothelial cells is called an endothelium. See also:
Introduction to Endothelial Cells. Endothelial cells (Fig.1) line the inside of every blood vessel in the body. They form a one-cell-thick layer called the endothelium, which is also found on the inner walls of the heart chambers and lymphatic vessels (which carry excess blood plasma around the body). The endothelium is very extensive. Main Function of Endothelial Cells. The main job of endothelial cells is to provide a barrier between the blood and the rest of the body tissues. Blood must be contained inside the transporting vessels, but substances need to move in and out of it in a controlled manner.
Both blood and lymphatic capillaries are composed of a single layer of endothelial cells called a monolayer. In straight sections of a blood vessel, vascular endothelial cells typically align and elongate in the direction of fluid flow. Endothelial cells in direct contact with blood are called vascular endothelial cells, whereas those in direct contact with lymph are known as lymphatic endothelial cells. Vascular endothelial cells line the entire circulatory system, from the heart to the smallest capillaries.
Medical Definition of ENDOTHELIUM. : an epithelium of mesoblastic origin composed of a single layer of thin flattened cells that lines internal body cavities (as the serous cavities or the interior of the heart). 1. : an epithelium of mesodermal origin composed of a single layer of thin flattened cells that lines internal body cavities and the lumens of vessels. 2. : the inner layer of the seed coat of some plants.
Endothelium is a type of epithelium that lines the interior surface of blood vessels and lymphatic vessels, forming an interface between circulating blood or lymph in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall. It is a thin layer of simple squamous cells called endothelial cells. Endothelial cells in direct contact with blood are called vascular endothelial cells, whereas those in direct contact with lymph are known as lymphatic endothelial cells. Vascular endothelial cells line the entire circulatory system, from the heart to the smallest capillaries.
Email. Print. The endothelium is a thin membrane that lines the inside of the heart and blood vessels. Endothelial cells release substances that control vascular relaxation and contraction as well as enzymes that control blood clotting, immune function and platelet (a colorless substance in the blood) adhesion.