That's a maximum of 30g of added sugar a day for adults, which is roughly seven sugar cubes. Children should have less – no more than 19g a day for children aged 4 to 6 years old (5 sugar cubes), and no more than 24g (6 sugar cubes) for children aged 7 to 10 years old. DKeir1986 said on 02 May 2015. This article does not even include WHO guidelines for your daily allowance of sugar in your diet. Your RDA of sugar is 50 grams at the very most, and 25 grams being the safer number. To put that in to perspective there is around 40 grams in a can of coca cola.
UK campaigners say it is a tragedy that the WHO has taken 10 years to think about changing its advice. The recommendation that sugar should account for no more than 10% of the calories in the diet, was passed in 2002. It works out at about 50g a day for an adult of normal weight, said the WHO. It is a tragedy that it has taken 10 years for the WHO to think about changing their recommendation on sugar. However, a number of experts now think 10% is too high, amid rising obesity levels around the world. People will be advised to halve the amount of sugar in their diet, under new World Health Organization guidance. The recommended sugar intake will stay at below 10% of total calorie intake a day, with 5% the target, says the WHO.
The recommendation that sugar should account for no more than 10% of the calories in the diet, was passed in 2002. It works out at about 50g a day for an adult of normal weight, said the WHO. It is a tragedy that it has taken 10 years for the WHO to think about changing their recommendation on sugar. However, a number of experts now think 10% is too high, amid rising obesity levels around the world. The recommended sugar intake will stay at below 10% of total calorie intake a day, with 5% the target, says the WHO.
The suggested limits apply to all sugars added to food, as well as sugar naturally present in honey, syrups, fruit juices and fruit concentrates. UK campaigners say it is a tragedy that the WHO has taken 10 years to think about changing its advice. The recommended sugar intake will stay at below 10% of total calorie intake a day, with 5% the target, says the WHO.
Fruit has naturally occuring sugars. Photo Credit Purestock/Purestock/Getty Images. The American Heart Association recommends men limit added sugar to 36 grams, or 9 teaspoons, per day. Women should limit added sugar to 24 grams, or 6 teaspoons, each day. As of 2010, the American diet has 19 percent more sugar than in 1970, according to TIME Magazine.. Rates of obesity and some chronic diseases, such as Type 2 diabetes, heart disease and stroke, have increased right along with it.
12 teaspoons added sugar for a 2000 calorie per day diet No more than 40 grams per day for a 2000 calorie diet. Remember that the daily limit of 40 grams refers to refined/pro … cessed sugars only. There seems to be no limit on natural sugars, however. 
Director of Nutrition and Diet, Alison Tedstone, said: Our surveys show that the UK population should reduce their sugar intake as average intake for adults is 11.6% and for children is 15.2%, which is above the current UK recommendation of 10%. . The recommended sugar intake will stay at below 10% of total calorie intake a day, with 5% the target, says the WHO.
4 March 2015 ¦ Geneva-A new WHO guideline recommends adults and children reduce their daily intake of free sugars to less than 10% of their total energy intake. A further reduction to below 5% or roughly 25 grams (6 teaspoons) per day would provide additional health benefits. 
The World Health Organization is dropping its sugar intake recommendations from 10 percent of your daily calorie intake to 5 percent. For an adult of a normal body mass index (BMI), that works out to about 6 teaspoons -- or 25 grams -- of sugar per day. Many people don't realize much of the sugar they take in are hidden in processed foods, according to WHO. A can of soda may contain up to 10 teaspoons or 40 grams of sugar. A tablespoon of ketchup has 1 teaspoon of sugar.
They were opened up for public comment through March 31, 2014. The American Heart Association recommends limiting sugar intake to no more than half of your daily discretionary calorie allowance: No more than 100 calories per day for women (about 6 teaspoons) and no more than 150 calories per day for men (9 teaspoons). Many people don't realize much of the sugar they take in are hidden in processed foods, according to WHO. A can of soda may contain up to 10 teaspoons or 40 grams of sugar. A tablespoon of ketchup has 1 teaspoon of sugar.