Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sources/Uses Sulfur dioxide gas is released primarily from the combustion of fossil fuels (75% to 85% of the industrial sources), the smelting of sulfide ores, volcanic emissions, and several other natural sources. Toxic amounts of sulfur dioxide can be released from the preservative chemical metabisulfite in the presence of water and acid. A major direct source of nitrous oxide from agricultural soils is that of synthetic fertilizer use.
Since the Industrial Revolution, emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere have increased. In 1852, Robert Angus Smith was the first to show the relationship between acid rain and atmospheric pollution in Manchester, England. The principal cause of acid rain is sulfur and nitrogen compounds from human sources, such as electricity generation, factories, and motor vehicles. Electrical power generation using coal is among the greatest contributors to gaseous pollutions that are responsible for acidic rain.
Emissions of sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and nitrogen oxides (NO x) from the electric power sector in 2012 declined to their lowest level since the passage of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. 
Sulfur dioxide (also sulphur dioxide) is the chemical compound with the formula SO 2. At standard atmosphere, it is a toxic gas with a pungent, irritating, and rotten smell. The triple point is 197.69 K and 1.67 kPa. It is released naturally by volcanic activity. 
Sources. Nitrogen oxides are produced in combustion processes, partly from nitrogen compounds in the fuel, but mostly by direct combination of atmospheric oxygen and nitrogen in flames. Nitrogen oxides are produced naturally by lightning, and also, to a small extent, by microbial processes in soils. Unlike emissions of sulphur dioxide, emissions of nitrogen oxides are only falling slowly in the UK, as emission control strategies for stationary and mobile sources are offset by increasing numbers of road vehicles.
Nitrogen Dioxide & Sulfur Dioxide What are they? Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO 2) are both parts of smog (which is usually not visible in South Carolina) and acid rain.Sulfur dioxide comes from the burning of coal and oil. It is very smelly.
It can have harmful effects on plants, aquatic animals and infrastructure. Acid rain is caused by emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, which react with the water molecules in the atmosphere to produce acids. Governments have made efforts since the 1970s to reduce the release of sulfur dioxide into the atmosphere with positive results. The principal cause of acid rain is sulfur and nitrogen compounds from human sources, such as electricity generation, factories, and motor vehicles. Electrical power generation using coal is among the greatest contributors to gaseous pollutions that are responsible for acidic rain.
231 Sulfur Oxides Sulfur oxides (SO x) are compounds of sulfur andoxygen molecules. Sulfur dioxide (SO 2) is the pre-dominant form found in the lower atmosphere. Itis a colorless gas that can be detected by taste andsmell in the range of 1,000 to 3,000 micrograms percubic meter (µg/m 3). 
Coal burning is the single largest man-made source of sulfur dioxide. Nitrogen Oxide Major Sources: - Fuel combustion in power plants and automobiles-Processes used in chemical plants. Source(s): http://www.corrosion-doctors.org/AtmCorr... http://www.envirotools.org/factsheets/co... Toxic amounts of sulfur dioxide can be released from the preservative chemical metabisulfite in the presence of water and acid. A major direct source of nitrous oxide from agricultural soils is that of synthetic fertilizer use.