An operational definition is a process by which the characteristics of a concept can be defined, including identification and classification. It consists of the methods or tests that are used in analyzing a given variable or concept, which can be used to confirm the validity of the information obtained. A simple example that shows the relationship between a conceptual definition and an operational definition: if the concept is weight, an operational definition could be the weight of an object as measured on a scale.
The operational definition of weight is just the result of what happens when the defined procedure is followed. In other words, what's being defined is how to measure weight for any arbitrary object, and only incidentally the weight of a given object. Operational definitions are also used to define system states in terms of a specific, publicly accessible process of preparation or validation testing, which is repeatable at will.
An operational definition is a demonstration of a process-such as a variable, term, or object-relative in terms of the specific process or set of validation tests used to determine its presence and quantity. A simple example that shows the relationship between a conceptual definition and an operational definition: if the concept is weight, an operational definition could be the weight of an object as measured on a scale.
Operational Definitions. An operational definition is a detailed specification of how one would go about measuring a given variable. Operational definitions can range from very simple and straightforward to quite complex, depending on the nature of the variable and the needs of the researcher. The Perfect Operational Definition. One must accept that there is no perfect operational definition for a given construct. Each operational definition will have advantages and disadvantages. A self-report measure is often quick and easy, but it is subject to presentational biases by the participants who take it.
The procedures included in definitions should be repeatable by anyone or at least by peers. An example of operational definition of the term weight of an object, operationalized to a degree, would be the following: weight is the numbers that appear when that object is placed on a weighing scale . The most operational definition is a process for identification of an object by distinguishing it from its background of empirical experience. The binary version produces either the result that the object exists, or that it doesn't, in the experiential field to which it is applied.
operational definition a definition, method, or procedure used to measure or represent a concept or variable in a specific situation. target definition the definition of a specific target that is identified on the intervention scheme of the omaha system. definition. a statement of the meaning of a word or phrase. conceptual definition an identification of the personal knowledge or connotative meaning of a word. These meanings are often difficult to express; the meaning is “known” but not easily put into words.
Operational definition. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An operational definition is a result of the process of operationalization and is used to define something (e.g. a variable, term, or object) in terms of a process (or set of validation tests) needed to determine its existence, duration, and quantity. The most operational definition is a process for identification of an object by distinguishing it from its background of empirical experience. The binary version produces either the result that the object exists, or that it doesn't, in the experiential field to which it is applied.
Therefore, weight of an object labels an operational definition which is a nonspecific process.) But an historical event (e.g., the process of taking my weight last Tuesday) cannot be an operational definition because it cannot be repeated. This is especially so in the sciences, where most (if not all) formal definitions (as distinct from arbitrary naming) must be operational definitions or traceable to operational definitions. Operational definitions are particularly important in the physical sciences.
(http://www.sixsigmaspc.com/dictionary/op... ) operational definition An operational definition is a description of something — such as a variable, term or object — in terms of the specific process or set of validation tests used to determine its presence and quantity. Operational definitions are also used to define system states in terms of a specific, publicly accessible process of preparation or validation testing, which is repeatable at will.
The operational definition of an empirical term (i.e., a descriptor of some element of physical experience) is the description of a specific process, or set of validation tests, accessible to more persons than the definer (i.e., said to be publicly accessible), whereby it is (or can be) repeatedly measured or tested. This is especially so in the sciences, where most (if not all) formal definitions (as distinct from arbitrary naming) must be operational definitions or traceable to operational definitions. Operational definitions are particularly important in the physical sciences.