Another way is look at how a doctor’s salary compares to the average national income in that doctor’s country — that is, gross domestic product per capita. These numbers are in the third column, fifth and seventh columns of the chart. As a country’s wealth rises, so should doctors’ pay. 
Once they have the total wage bill for each country, they add them all together and divide by the total number of earners in the world. That gives you the answer-the world's average salary is $1,480 (£928) a month, which is just less than $18,000 (£11,291) a year. But these dollars are not normal US dollars. The total value of world income is closing in on $70 trillion (£43.9tn) per year, and there are seven billion people in the world, so the average income is heading towards $10,000 (£6,273) per person per year. Easy. But not everyone has a job and some of those seven billion are children.
The average wage is a measure for the financial well-being of a country's inhabitants. The average wages are adjusted to living expenses. The wage distribution is right-skewed; the majority of people earn less than the average wage. For an alternative measure, the Median household income uses median instead of average. The average wage, calculated by the International Labour Organization (ILO) , a United Nations agency dealing with labour issues, particularly international labour standards and decent work for all, 185 of the 193 UN member states are members of the ILO.
Average Monthly Salary for 72 Countries in the World. 17th April, 2012 Statistics 31 comments. Recently, United Nations’ International Labour Organization (ILO) published the average monthly salary or wage for the whole world & the average for 72 countries. For the whole world, the average is USD1,480 per month. The figures are published for the first time
*Source: OECD. Average CEO pay amounts are calculated in U.S. dollars based on 2012 or 2011 CEO pay levels for companies from the available in the S&P Capital IQ database. CEO-to-worker pay ratios for are calculated using 2011 average annual wages in U.S. dollars as reported by the OECD.Stat database. 
It's a rough figure based on data from 72 countries, omitting some of the world's poorest nations. All figures are adjusted to reflect variations in the cost of living from one country to another. According to ILO the World average wage in Purchasing Power Parity dollars is $1,480. The average wage, calculated by the International Labour Organization (ILO) , a United Nations agency dealing with labour issues, particularly international labour standards and decent work for all, 185 of the 193 UN member states are members of the ILO.
The average salary, income, and expenditure data is tabulated in 2005 international dollars (denoted herein as . The International Average Salary Income Database provides an international comparison of average salary for various professions, and an international comparison of average personal income & expenditure.