The first symptoms of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) typically begin 2-14 days after the bite of an infected tick. A tick bite is usually painless and about half of the people who develop RMSF do not remember being bitten. The red to purple, spotted (petechial) rash of RMSF is usually not seen until the sixth day or later after onset of symptoms and occurs in 35-60% of patients with the infection. This is a sign of progression to severe disease, and every attempt should be made to begin treatment before petechiae develop.
1 Rash: Lyme disease, southern tick-associated rash illness (STARI) , Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) , ehrlichiosis, and tularemia can result in distinctive rashes: 2  In Lyme disease, the rash may appear within 3-30 days, typically before the onset of fever. 1 In Lyme disease, the rash may appear within 3-30 days, typically before the onset of fever. 2  The Lyme disease rash is the first sign of infection and is usually a circular rash called erythema migrans or EM. 3  This rash occurs in approximately 70-80% of infected persons and begins at the site of a tick bite.
1 If you are bitten by an American dog tick, you may see redness around the site. 2  In the case of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, symptoms including fever, headache, and body aches come on suddenly, within 3 to 12 days after the bite. Gulf Coast Tick Bites: Pimple-Like. The Gulf Coast tick can transmit rickettsia parkeri, a milder type of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Signs of this infection may appear anywhere from 2 to 10 days after the bite. The bite itself might look like a pimple and could be followed by headache, an overall rash, and fever
Typically in tick-borne diseases, a tick bite is recalled by 50 to 70 percent of patients. 3, 4 The onset of symptoms of Rocky Mountain spotted fever usually begins five to seven days after inoculation. Common symptoms include generalized malaise, myalgias (especially in the back and leg muscles), fever, frontal headaches, nausea, and vomiting.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is an acute infectious disease transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected tick. The disease occurs throughout the United States during months when ground temperatures reach 40 degrees Fahrenheit or more and ticks are active. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is characterized by a sudden onset of moderate to high fever (which can last for two or three weeks), severe headache, fatigue, deep muscle pain, chills and rash.
1 Gulf Coast Tick Bites: Pimple-Like The Gulf Coast tick can transmit rickettsia parkeri, a milder type of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. 2  Signs of this infection may appear anywhere from 2 to 10 days after the bite. 3  The bite itself might look like a pimple and could be followed by headache, an overall rash, and fever. Gulf Coast Tick Bites: Pimple-Like. The Gulf Coast tick can transmit rickettsia parkeri, a milder type of Rocky Mountain spotted fever. Signs of this infection may appear anywhere from 2 to 10 days after the bite.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is spread by the bite of an infected tick (the American dog tick or the lone-star tick) or by contamination of the skin with tick blood or feces. Person-to-person transmission does not occur. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is characterized by a sudden onset of moderate to high fever (which can last for two or three weeks), severe headache, fatigue, deep muscle pain, chills and rash.
The Symptoms Early symptoms of Rocky Mountain spotted fever, which start 2 to 14 days after the tick bite, include fever, deep muscle pain, severe headache, chills, and upset stomach or vomiting. Around the third day a red, spotted rash usually appears, beginning on the wrists and ankles. 
Symptoms may begin from 1 day to 3 weeks after the tick bite. Sometimes a rash or sore appears along with the flu-like symptoms. Common tick-borne diseases include: 1  Lyme disease. 2  Rocky Mountain spotted fever. 3  Tularemia. 4  Ehrlichiosis. 5  Relapsing fever. 6  Colorado tick fever. 7  Babesiosis. 