A grain contains three parts: bran, germ and endosperm. The bran is the outer layer and is rich in fiber. The germ is the inner layer and is rich in nutrients. The endosperm is the bulk of the kernel and contains some of the vitamins and minerals. The endosperm is what white flour is made up of. A product is a whole grain if it contains all three of these parts.
The male gametophytes of flowering plants are also referred to as _____. pollen grains. megaspores. embryo sacs. endosperm. male sporophytes. In flowering plants the integuments of the ovule develop into a(n) _____. 
Grains are made up of three parts: the bran, the germ, and the endosperm. The bran is the outer layer or shell, and its role is to protect the grain. It contains fiber, B vitamins, and minerals. The germ is the grain's core, the seed that has the capability of sprouting into a new plant. The bran is the outer layer and is rich in fiber. The germ is the inner layer and is rich in nutrients. The endosperm is the bulk of the kernel and contains some of the vitamins and minerals. The endosperm is what white flour is made up of. A product is a whole grain if it contains all three of these parts.
Definition of ENDOSPERM. : a nutritive tissue in seed plants formed within the embryo sac by division of the endosperm nucleus. See endosperm defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Noun. 1. endosperm-nutritive tissue surrounding the embryo within seeds of flowering plants. reproductive structure-the parts of a plant involved in its reproduction. seed-a mature fertilized plant ovule consisting of an embryo and its food source and having a protective coat or testa. 1  Facebook. endosperm. n. 1. (Botany) the tissue within the seed of a flowering plant that surrounds and nourishes the developing embryo. (ˈɛn dəˌspɜrm). n.
Endosperm ...About 83 percent of the kernel weight and the source of white flour. The endosperm contains the greatest share of protein, carbohydrates and iron, as well as the major B-vitamins, such a as riboflavin, niacin, and thiamine. It is also a cource of soluble fiber. Bran ...About 14 1/2 percent of the kernel weight. Bran is included in whole wheat flour and can also be bought separately. The bran contains a small amount of protein, large quantities of the three major B-vitamins, trace minerals, and dietary fiber-primarily insoluble. Germ ...About 2 1/2 percent of the kernel weight. The germ is the embryo or sprouting section of the seed, often separated from flour in milling because the fat content limits flour's shelf-life. The germ contains minimal quantities of high quality proten and a greater share of B-complex vitamins and trace minerals.
For example, wheat endosperm is ground into flour for bread (the rest of the grain is included as well in whole wheat flour), while barley endosperm is the main source for beer production. Other examples of endosperm that forms the bulk of the edible portion are coconut meat and coconut water, and corn. Some plants, like the orchid, lack endosperm in their seeds.
Endosperm is a tissue produced inside the seeds of most of the flowering plants around the time of fertilization. It surrounds the embryo and provides nutrition in the form of starch, though it can also contain oils and protein. This can make endosperm a source of nutrition in human diet. Other examples of endosperm that forms the bulk of the edible portion are coconut meat and coconut water, and corn. Some plants, like the orchid, lack endosperm in their seeds.