In 1949, Mills and Harper went to Chicago so that Mills could serve as a visiting professor at the University of Chicago; Mills returned to teaching at Columbia after a semester at the University of Chicago and was promoted to Associate Professor of Sociology on July 1, 1950. Mills was appointed Assistant Professor in the University's sociology department in 1946. Mills received a grant of $2,500 from the Guggenheim Foundation in April, 1945 to fund his research in 1946.
The second major theoretical perspective in sociology is called social conflict theory. This theory views society as a system of groups that are not equal, and therefore consistently generate conflict and change. Symbolic interactionism views larger society as a byproduct of the interactions among millions of individuals. In other words, this theory focuses more on tiny groups of two or three people, talking to each other and interacting, and says that society is really just millions of these tiny groups occurring over time.
A commonly accepted definition of sociology as a special science is that it is the study of social aggregates and groups in their institutional organization, of institutions and their organization, and of the causes and consequences of changes in institutions and social organization. Sociology, for Durkheim, was the study of “social facts,” and it should not be forgotten that his first major work after completing his French and Latin theses was The Rules of Sociological Method [1895; for a discussion of Durkheim‘s conception of social facts, see the biography of Durkheim].
Wright Mills’s term for problems in society that underlie personal troubles. . Personal troubles refer to a problem affecting individuals that the affected individual, as well as other members of society, typically blame on the individual’s own personal and moral failings. 
The development of fields of interest in sociology may be viewed as a problem in the sociology of knowledge. While problem finding in sociology undoubtedly is a result of the growth of theory and method, it also is subject to social determinants within the society (Merton [1949] 1957, pp. ix-xxiv). Sociology, for Durkheim, was the study of “social facts,” and it should not be forgotten that his first major work after completing his French and Latin theses was The Rules of Sociological Method [1895; for a discussion of Durkheim‘s conception of social facts, see the biography of Durkheim].
Our first theory is called structural-functional theory. This approach views society as a complex, but interconnected system, where each part works together as a functional whole. A metaphor for the structural-functional approach is the human body. You have arms, legs, a heart, a brain, and so on. Symbolic interactionism views larger society as a byproduct of the interactions among millions of individuals. In other words, this theory focuses more on tiny groups of two or three people, talking to each other and interacting, and says that society is really just millions of these tiny groups occurring over time.
Sociology as a scholarly discipline emerged primarily out of enlightenment thought, shortly after the French Revolution, as a positivist science of society. Its genesis owed to various key movements in the philosophy of science and the philosophy of knowledge. Late 19th century sociology demonstrated a particularly strong interest in the emergence of the modern nation state; its constituent institutions, its units of socialization, and its means of surveillance.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I'm not doing justice to his work in this short summary, but the basis is as follows. Marx looked at the society that surrounded him,and tried to think why people developed this type of society and not some other one. he thought about the type of society that had preceded it. Before 'modern society' (as he knew it in the 1800s) there was a more rural type of society, before that, there was a 'hunter-gatherer' type of society. Basically, societies were small scale, because any one food source could only support so many people.
The most systematic modern attempt to resolve this question is found in the writings of Parsons (1938-1953; 1951; 1960; 1966). In Parsons‘ view, sociological theory is an aspect of the theory of social systems and sociology is thereby defined as a special social science. Sociology, for Durkheim, was the study of “social facts,” and it should not be forgotten that his first major work after completing his French and Latin theses was The Rules of Sociological Method [1895; for a discussion of Durkheim‘s conception of social facts, see the biography of Durkheim].