The CR-400 Chroma Meter is compatible with an optional data processor to print results on-site or SpectraMagic NX software to record measurements and provide a more comprehensive color analysis. Color Measurement Solutions for the Food Industry Click here for the CR-400 Catalog. Click here for the CR-400 Manual. The CR-400 Chroma Meter is a handheld, portable measurement instrument designed to evaluate the color of objects, particularly with smoother surface conditions or minimal color variation.
Introduction. The famous Chroma Meters series-more powerful and versatile then ever. The Konica Minolta Chroma Meters CR-400 series continue the heritage of the first portable colorimeters introduced in the 80ies.
CR-410 Chroma Meter. The CR-410 chroma meter is a user-friendly, hand held color measuring instrument which can be used on a variety of surfaces in many types of applications. Featuring a 50mm aperture, this unit can measure on its own or, for advanced features and on-site printing, be connected to a data processor. Automotive. Chemicals. The handheld CR-410 Chroma Meter is the successor to the CR-310, and of course they’re completely compatible.
Chem., 41, 369-378 (November/December 1990) Use of a chromameter in assessino the efficacy of anti-irritants and tannino accelerators N. MUIZZUDDIN, K. MARENUS, D. MAES, and W. P. SMITH, Estee Lauder Laboratories, 125 Pinelawn Road, Melville, NY 11747. TANNING In studies to assess changes in skin color due to tanning, the chromameter is also valuable (Figure 3). Pre-tan products usually seek to reduce the amount of UV re-quired to achieve skin darkening. Other products seek to extend the time of skin dark-ening from a single UV stimulus.
Accepted October 24, 1990. Synopsis The chromameter is a tool for precise and objective assessment of surface color. Data output, in the form of the L* a* b* color coordinate system is used for different studies pertaining to skin color. TANNING In studies to assess changes in skin color due to tanning, the chromameter is also valuable (Figure 3). Pre-tan products usually seek to reduce the amount of UV re-quired to achieve skin darkening. Other products seek to extend the time of skin dark-ening from a single UV stimulus.
Back. The CR-400 handheld chroma meter is a color measuring instrument that's user-friendly and can be used on a variety of surfaces in many types of applications. With its 8mm aperture size, it can measure on its own or connect to a data processor for advanced features and on-site printing. A variety of accessories are available to accommodate various target types such as powders, liquids, and pastes. The CR-400 chroma meter is compatible with SpectraMagic NX software and is easy-to-use. Multiple views of data results can be viewed and edited.
The CR-400 Chroma Meter is compatible with an optional data processor to print results on-site or SpectraMagic NX software to record measurements and provide a more comprehensive color analysis. Color Measurement Solutions for the Food Industry. Color Measurement Solutions for the Food Industry Click here for the CR-400 Catalog. Click here for the CR-400 Manual. The CR-400 Chroma Meter is a handheld, portable measurement instrument designed to evaluate the color of objects, particularly with smoother surface conditions or minimal color variation.
CR-400 Chroma Meter. The CR-400 handheld chroma meter is a color measuring instrument that's user-friendly and can be used on a variety of surfaces in many types of applications. With its 8mm aperture size, it can measure on its own or connect to a data processor for advanced features and on-site printing. Automotive. A variety of accessories are available to accommodate various target types such as powders, liquids, and pastes. The CR-400 chroma meter is compatible with SpectraMagic NX software and is easy-to-use. Multiple views of data results can be viewed and edited.
Click Here to Watch Video. The CL-200A chroma meter is the successor to the CL-200. It can measure the color temperature, illuminance, chromaticity, excitation purity, and dominant wavelength of various light sources. Depending on the application for which the CL-200A is being used, results can be displayed through different color notations. The CL-200A was designed to be a highly effective tool for measuring the color temperature of white LEDs, a task that has been very difficult in the past.