The most beautiful qualities of the Christ are resonating with the same vibration as the violet ray: freedom, mercy, forgiveness, justice, diplomacy, respect, tolerance, intuition, gratitude, spiritual awakening, mastery of alchemy and transmutation, prophecy. 
Archangel Zadkiel and Holy Amethyst embody God’s freedom, alchemy, transmutation, forgiveness and justice, the very same qualities embodied by Saint Germain and his twin flame. Their work corresponds to the seat-of-the-soul chakra, and their color is violet. The day of the seventh ray is Saturday, which means we can receive a greater release of light, energy and cosmic consciousness from the causal bodies of Zadkiel and Amethyst on that day. The name Zadkiel means “righteousness of God.” In rabbinic tradition, Zadkiel is known as the angel of benevolence, mercy and memory.
Archangel Zadkiel and his twin flame, Holy Amethyst, are the archangels of the seventh ray. Together with the violet-flame angels, they serve mankind from the Temple of Purification. The day of the seventh ray is Saturday, which means we can receive a greater release of light, energy and cosmic consciousness from the causal bodies of Zadkiel and Amethyst on that day. The name Zadkiel means “righteousness of God.” In rabbinic tradition, Zadkiel is known as the angel of benevolence, mercy and memory.
Rabbinical tradition considers him to be the angel of mercy. In rabbinic writings Zadkiel belongs to the order of Hashmallim, and considered by some sources to be chief of that order. In Maseket Azilut Zadkiel/Hesediel is listed as co-chief with Gabriel of the order of Shinanim. As an angel of mercy, some texts claim that Zadkiel is the unnamed Biblical Angel of the Lord who holds back Abraham to prevent the patriarch from sacrificing his son, and because of this is usually shown holding a dagger. Zadkiel is associated with the color violet. In Jewish mysticism and Western ritual magic, Zadkiel is associated with the planet Jupiter. The angel's position in the Sephirot is fourth, which corresponds to mercy.
Zadkiel or Hesediel (Heb. Tzadqiel, Righteousness of God) is the archangel of freedom, benevolence, mercy, and the Patron Angel of all who forgive, also known as Sachiel, Zedekiel, Zadakiel, Tzadkiel, and Zedekul. Rabbinical tradition considers him to be the angel of mercy. Zadkiel was said to be the Angel who prevented Abraham from sacrificing his son, Isaac. In rabbinic writings Zadkiel belongs to the order of Hashmallim (equated with the Dominations or Dominions), and considered by some sources to be chief of that order (others sources name Hashmal or Zacharael). In Maseket Azilut Zadkiel/Hesediel is listed as co-chief with Gabriel of the order of Shinanim
Zadkiel the Archangel. Zadkiel Righteousness of God is the archangel of prayer, freedom, benevolence, mercy, and the Patron Angel of all who forgive. Also known as Sachiel, Zedekiel, Zadakiel, Tzadkiel, Zedekul and Hesediel. Rabbinical tradition considers him to be the angel of mercy. 
[ syll. zad-kiel, za-dki-el ] The baby boy name Zadkiel is pronounced Z AA DK IY-L †. Zadkiel's origin, as well as its use, is in the Hebrew language. Zadkiel is of the meaning 'angel of mercy'. Zadkiel is an uncommon baby name for boys. It is not listed within the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Zadkiel include Zaydel (Yiddish), Zdislaw (Polish), Zodel, and Tzadkiel (Hebrew)
By Whitney Hopler. Name: Zadkiel means righteousness of God.. Other spellings include Zadakiel, Zedekiel, Zedekul, TZadkiel, Sachiel, and Hesediel. Main Characteristics: Zadkiel is known as the angel of mercy. The Zohar, the holy book of the mystical branch of Judaism called Kabbalah, names Zadkiel as one of two archangels (the other is Jophiel), who help the archangel Michael when he fights evil in the spiritual realm. Other Religious Roles: Zadkiel is the patron angel of people who forgive.