Polysporin's heritage is a line of antibiotic ointments and creams used to prevent infection and help speed the healing of wounds. The brand has since expanded its offerings and developed into a more holistic healing brand. All of the ointment variants are also composed of Polysporin's proprietary Cel-Activ moisturization technology, a unique formulation of olive oil, vitamin E, cocoa butter, cotton seed oil, sodium pyruvate, and petrolatum. Cel-Activ is intended to minimize the appearance of scarring.
Use. Wash the area completely and allow it to dry. Apply the Polysporin ointment to the affected area using a cotton swab. Rub the ointment gently using the cotton swab until it is distributed evenly over the affected area. Cover the area with a sterile bandage. Make sure to wash your hands if any Polysporin ointment gets on your hands. Polysporin is a brand name for a medicated ointment known as bacitracin or polymyxin. Although these medications are available in other forms, their most common use requires them to be in ointment form for application on the skin.
Directions for Use : Cleanse: Clean affected area thoroughly. Treat: Apply POLYSPORIN ® Triple Antibiotic Ointment to the area 1 to 3 times daily. Protect: Apply a sterile bandage, such as BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive Bandage, if available. CAUTIONS: For external use only. Avoid contact with eyes; if this occurs, rinse thoroughly with water
The original ointment contains three different antibiotics: bacitracin, neomycin, and polymyxin B, in a relatively low-molecular-weight patented base of cocoa butter, cottonseed oil, sodium pyruvate, tocopheryl acetate, and petroleum jelly. Neosporin is for external use only and should not go near mucus membranes such as the eyes or mouth. Neosporin is not recommended for children under the age of two. There are no known side effects when using Neosporin, however users should immediately seek medical attention when experiencing hives, rashes, or itching.
This medication is used to treat eye infections. This product contains bacitracin and polymyxin, antibiotics that work by stopping the growth of bacteria. This medication treats only bacterial eye infections. It will not work for other types of eye infections (e.g., infections caused by viruses, fungi, mycobacteria). Place a 1/2 inch (1.5 centimeters) strip of ointment into the pouch by squeezing the tube gently. Close the eye and roll the eyeball in all directions to spread the medication. Try not to blink and do not rub the eye. Repeat these steps for your other eye if so directed.
Purpose. The primary use for Polysporin ointment is to prevent or treat infection in a minor skin wound. Polysporin ointment is a type of antibiotic ointment. The way that this ointment works is by killing bacteria or inhibiting the growth of bacteria in order to stop a bacterial infection or prevent one from occurring. Polysporin is a brand name for a medicated ointment known as bacitracin or polymyxin. Although these medications are available in other forms, their most common use requires them to be in ointment form for application on the skin.
Polysporin is a Canadian topical antibiotic cream or ointment manufactured under license by Johnson & Johnson. The active ingredients are polymyxin, bacitracin and occasionally garamycin or gramicidin. All of the ointment variants are also composed of Polysporin's proprietary Cel-Activ moisturization technology, a unique formulation of olive oil, vitamin E, cocoa butter, cotton seed oil, sodium pyruvate, and petrolatum. Cel-Activ is intended to minimize the appearance of scarring.
More recently, the brand launched the Polysporin Cold Sore Healing patch. It is the first brand to provide healing patches that are intended to hide and actively heal cold sores. Each healing patch uses hydrocolloid technology to form a protective barrier, speed healing, and prevent scabbing. All of the ointment variants are also composed of Polysporin's proprietary Cel-Activ moisturization technology, a unique formulation of olive oil, vitamin E, cocoa butter, cotton seed oil, sodium pyruvate, and petrolatum. Cel-Activ is intended to minimize the appearance of scarring.