^ m d. Nurse managers are steering the American health care system; your management skills, nursing leadership, expertise, and dedication allow your staff to provide safe quality nursing care for everyone. 
Some charge nurses are permanent members of the nursing management team and are called shift supervisors. The traditional term for a female charge nurse is a nursing sister (or just sister), and this term is still commonly used in some countries (such as the United Kingdom). The chief nurse is a registered nurse who supervises the care of all the patients at a health care facility. The chief nurse is the senior nursing management position in an organization and often holds executive titles like chief nursing officer (CNO), chief nurse executive, or vice-president of nursing.
The nurse manager is the nurse with management responsibilities of a nursing unit. They typically report to a service director. They have primary responsibilities for staffing, budgeting, and day-to-day operations of the unit. The chief nurse is a registered nurse who supervises the care of all the patients at a health care facility. The chief nurse is the senior nursing management position in an organization and often holds executive titles like chief nursing officer (CNO), chief nurse executive, or vice-president of nursing.
As for charge nurses, this will vary more by facility. The charge nurse oversees the functioning of the unit during the shift. In the chain of command you would see the floor nurse, charge nurse, assistant nurse manager, nurse manager, and supervisor. There may be more layers, again depending on the facility. Jan 21, '11 by j621d. Responsibilities may differ with the various facilities, but basically, a nurse manager manages the functions of the nursing floor. They are ultimately responsible for the hiring and firing of nurses working on that floor. They deal with the budget (salaries, equipment, etc.), and they oversee unit policies
I work nights as a charge nurse. My responsibilities are to oversee the operations of the floor, provide assistance to others, call physicians for nurses if needed, be the primary contact to the nursing supervisor, make assignments for the next shift. I get paid for the hours worked and am not considered management level. The Clinical Manager is responsible for the entire unit. She is not generally a staff nurse, unless the unit is extremely short-staffed. She makes the schedules, does employee evals, hires, etc. for the unit.
However, the charge nurse on all shifts must also do RN assessments on new admissions for LVNs. I get paid for the hours worked and am not considered management level. The Clinical Manager is responsible for the entire unit. She is not generally a staff nurse, unless the unit is extremely short-staffed. She makes the schedules, does employee evals, hires, etc. for the unit. She also is the one who does the budget and reports to upper management on performance issue
The leadership of the nurse manager is key to effective functioning of the unit, to high-quality patient care, and to retention of nurses. 2 In one study, 3 84% of nurses leaving or considering leaving their jobs did so as a result of their relationships with their nurse manager. It is in the best interests of the staff nurse and of quality patient care for staff nurses to make their expectations for support clear to the nurse manager. Knowledge of the identified supportive role behaviors may help nurses to more explicitly formulate the support needed from
Typical Salary of a Charge Nurse. According to national salary data on Salary.com, charge nurses earned a median annual income of $71,597 as of November 2010, with the middle 50% of professionals in this role earning between $65,216 and $80,611. By University Alliance. If you aspire to apply your clinical nursing experience within a leadership role, a charge nurse position may be a perfect fit for you. In addition to caring for patients, a charge nurse assumes some managerial responsibilities for nurses and support staff on a particular shift. A charge nurse job is the stepping stone to higher-level positions in nursing management