Backflow is the undesirable reversal of the flow of water or mixtures of water and other undesirable substances from any source (such as used water, industrial fluids, gasses, or any substance other than the intended potable water) into the distribution pipes of the potable water system. Backflow occurs as a result of a “cross-connection” within the water system, which exists when there is any actual or potential connection between a potable water system and any other source or system through which it is possible to introduce into the potable system any used water or other substance.
Backflow is the undesirable reversal of the flow of water from its intended direction in any pipeline or plumbing system. Backflow is dangerous because it can allow drinking water in plumbing systems to become contaminated and unusable. 
Backflow is the undesirable reversal of the flow of water, or a mixture of water and pollutants, into the distribution pipes of your potable water system. It happens when a “cross connection” within the water system is reversed due to a pressure drop. 
ANSWER: Backflow is the undesirable reversal of flow of nonpotable water or other substances through a cross-connection and into the piping of a public water system or consumer's potable water system. There are two types of backflow... ANSWER: Backsiphonage is backflow caused by a negative pressure (i.e., a vacuum ~ or partial vacuum) in a Public water system or consumer's potable water system. The effect is similar to drinking water through a straw.
Backflow is the reversal of water flow, and it can present a risk to water quality in public water systems. That's why water utilities require some customers to install a backflow preventer. This video explains how backflow occurs and how prevention assemblies work. 
In this situation, dirty water from the hillside pool will back-siphon or back-flow down the hosepipe and into the clean water tank. To prevent this from happening, the house's external tap should be fitted with a backflow prevention device. A backflow prevention device is used to protect potable water supplies from contamination or pollution due to backflow. In water supply systems, water is normally maintained at a significant pressure to enable water to flow from the tap, shower, or other fixture. 
ANSWER: Backflow is the undesirable reversal of flow of non-potable water or other substances through a cross-connection and into the piping of a public water system or consumer's potable water system. There are two types of backflow... backpressure backflow and backsiphonage. 
Backflow is a term in plumbing for an unwanted flow of water in the reverse direction. It can be a serious health risk for the contamination of potable water supplies with foul water. In the most obvious case, a toilet flush cistern and its water supply must be isolated from the toilet bowl. Backflow occurs for one of two reasons, either back pressure or back siphonage. Back pressure is the result of a higher pressure in the system than in its supply, i.e. the system pressure has been increased by some means.
QUESTION: What is backflow? ANSWER: Backflow is the undesirable reversal of flow of nonpotable water or other substances through a cross-connection and into the piping of a public water system or consumer s potable water system. There are two types of backflow--backpressure backflow and backsiphonage. QUESTION: What is backsiphonage? ANSWER: Backsiphonage is backflow caused by a negative pressure (i.e., a vacuum or partial vacuum) in a public water system or consumer s potable water system. The effect is similar to drinking water through a straw.