In physical geography, tundra is type of biome where the tree growth is hindered by low temperatures and short growing seasons. The term tundra comes through Russian тундра from the Kildin Sami word tūndar tūndâr, uplands treeless mountain. tract Arctic tundra contains areas of stark landscape and is frozen for much of the year. The soil there is frozen from 25–90 cm (10–35 in) down, and it is impossible for trees to grow.
There are three types of tundra: arctic tundra, alpine tundra, and Antarctic tundra. In tundra, the vegetation is composed of dwarf shrubs, sedges and grasses, mosses, and lichens. Scattered trees grow in some tundra regions. Arctic tundra contains areas of stark landscape and is frozen for much of the year. The soil there is frozen from 25–90 cm (10–35 in) down, and it is impossible for trees to grow.
Tundra is the coldest of all the biomes. Tundra comes from the Finnish word tunturia, meaning treeless plain. It is noted for its frost-molded landscapes, extremely low temperatures, little precipitation, poor nutrients, and short growing seasons. Dead organic material functions as a nutrient pool
LOCATION: The tundra biome is the coldest of all biomes. It is also quite big. The tundra covers about one fifth of the land on earth. The word tundra comes from a Finnish word that means treeless plain, which is a good description of the biome. WEATHER: The tundra is the coldest and the driest of all the biomes on Earth. There is very little rainfall in the tundra; it rains less than ten inches a year. Winters here are long, and summers short, sometimes they last for only 6 - 10 weeks. In the winter the temperature can reach -50°F (-45.5°C).
There are two types of tundra-arctic tundra and alpine tundra. The arctic tundra is located within the Arctic Circle while the alpine tundra is the area high in the mountains above trees. The plants that grow in the tundra biome often grow in clusters to help protect themselves from the severe winter winds. There are very few trees that grow in the tundra biome. Under the snow and ice, there is a thick layer of soil that remains frozen which does not allow deep rooted plants such as trees to grow. The tundra biome has about 400 varieties of flowers but only 48 different animals.
The tundra biome. Tundra is the coldest of all the biomes. Tundra comes from the Finnish word tunturi, meaning treeless plain. It is noted for its frost-molded landscapes, extremely low temperatures, little precipitation, poor nutrients, and short growing seasons. Dead organic material functions as a nutrient pool.
Tundra, the ice desert, frozen prairie, the cold plains of the Far North get their name from the Finnish word tunturia, which means treeless land. The tundra biome is the coldest of all terrestrial eco-systems, and also the most chaotic. Still, the tundra is host to a surprising number of plants and animals, and represents a fascinating testament to nature's adaptability, and cruel beauty. 
Tundra. Introduction: The word tundra derives from the Finnish word for barren or treeless land. The tundra is the simplest biome in terms of species composition and food chains. Vegetation: lichens, mosses, sedges, perennial forbs, and dwarfed shrubs, (often heaths, but also birches and willows). Growthforms: typical are ground-hugging and other warmth-preserving forms including: 1  tussock-forming graminoids. Distribution: The tundra biome is restricted to the high latitudes of the northern hemisphere in a belt around the Arctic Ocean. Many of its species, both plant and animal, have circumpolar distribution areas.