In biology, a substrate is the surface on which a plant or animal lives. A substrate can include biotic or abiotic materials and animals. For example, encrusting algae that lives on a rock (its substrate) can be itself a substrate for another animal that lives on top of the algae. 
sub·strate. 1. The material or substance on which an enzyme acts. See Note at enzyme. 2. The surface on which plants, algae, or certain animals, such as barnacles, live or grow. A substrate may serve as a source of food for an organism or simply provide support. - The surface on which an organism lives or moves
Substrate. Definition. noun, plural: substrates. (geology). A substratum or an underlying stratum. (chemistry). The substance acted upon by an enzyme. (biology). The earthy material in which an organism lives, or the surface or medium on which an organism grows or is attached. (marine biology). The material (e.g. dirt, rocks, sand, gravel) in the bottom of a marine habitat, or one that forms the bed of a stream (or of an aquarium); the source of food for some microorganisms. Supplement. Word origin: L. Stratum = layer.
In biochemistry, the substrate is a molecule upon which an enzyme acts. Enzymes catalyze chemical reactions involving the substrate(s). In the case of a single substrate, the substrate bonds with the enzyme active site, and an enzyme-substrate complex is formed. In biochemistry, an enzyme substrate is the material upon which an enzyme acts. When referring to Le Chatelier's Principle, the substrate is the reagent whose concentration is changed. The term substrate is highly context-dependent.
Substrate-level phosphorylation is a type of chemical re action that results in the formation of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by the direct trans fer of a phosphate group to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) from a reactive intermediate. substrate. Molecule that undergoes a change in a re action catalyzed by an enzyme. 4) ~ s bind to the active site of an enzyme and convert the ~ s into products. 5) The three dimensional shape of the enzyme and of the active site determines its activity. 6) The way in which a ~ fits into an active site is often referred to as the lock and key model.
In chemistry, a substrate is typically the chemical species being observed in a chemical reaction, which reacts with reagent to generate a product. In biochemistry, an enzyme substrate is the material upon which an enzyme acts. When referring to Le Chatelier's Principle, the substrate is the reagent whose concentration is changed. The term substrate is highly context-dependent.
The molecule (or molecules) with which the enzyme bonds is referred to as the substrate; the molecule (or molecules) that are created at the end of the reaction is referred to as the product. The substrate bonds to a small area of the enzyme termed the active site. In the Lock and Key Model, the substrate and the enzyme's active site are exact matches for each other, similar to puzzle pieces fitting together. Only a single substrate is the 'key' that matches the 'lock' of the active site. Once the enzyme locates the molecule that fits it exactly, the chemical reaction begins.
substrate-the substance that is acted upon by an enzyme or ferment. substance-the real physical matter of which a person or thing consists; DNA is the substance of our genes. 2. The surface on which plants, algae, or certain animals, such as barnacles, live or grow. A substrate may serve as a source of food for an organism or simply provide support. - The surface on which an organism lives or mov