Dietitians are a valuable resource in your effort to keep diabetes in control, but many people overlook them. Some people newly diagnosed with diabetes meet with a dietitian just once, sometimes during a hospitalization for high blood sugar. 1 Teach you how to count carbohydrates in your foods. 2  That is, if carbohydrate-counting is a method you want to use. 3  Your dietitian should also teach you how to control portion sizes and understand the importance of watching your fat and calorie consumption (which people who count their carbs often forget).
The diabetes diet is not something that people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes should be following. That just simply isn't how meal planning works today for patients with diabetes, says Amy Campbell, MS, RD, LDN, CDE, a nutritionist at Joslin and co-author of 16 Myths of a Diabetic Diet. This means that a person who has worked with a dietitian and a diabetes treatment team to figure out how many grams of carbohydrate they can eat throughout the day can decide at any given meal what they will eat.
With either Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes, a registered dietitian is an essential part of your treatment team. Look for an RD with who specializes in diabetes often indicated by the initials CDE after their name. Maybe you’ve seen sample meal plans recommended for people with diabetes that look easy enough to use. But remember, your meal plan is not a short-term diet that you can follow for a few weeks. You are developing a new way of eating that will stay with you throughout your life.
1 That is, if carbohydrate-counting is a method you want to use. 2  Your dietitian should also teach you how to control portion sizes and understand the importance of watching your fat and calorie consumption (which people who count their carbs often forget). 3  Consult with your doctor, if necessary. 1 Teach you how to count carbohydrates in your foods. 2  That is, if carbohydrate-counting is a method you want to use. 3
For seniors, Medicare covers three hours of doctor-prescribed medical nutrition therapy the first year a person is diagnosed with diabetes and then two hours per year after that. This service is separate from, and in addition to, diabetes self-management education. “There’s always something new to learn.” Sure, working with a dietitian will help you stay up-to-date on the latest nutrition information, but you’ll also learn about your diabetes as it changes over time. Repeated visits. You’re unlikely to make strides if your visit is a one-time deal.
Patients who had at least one visit with a nutritionist had a hospitalization rate of 21.1 per 100 person-years, 45% lower than the rate for patients who had no education visits. Each nutritionist visit was associated with 4.70 (2.23–7.16) fewer hospitalizations per 100 person-years and a $6,503 ($3,421 to $9,586) reduction in total hospital charges. CONCLUSIONS —Any type of educational visit was associated with lower hospitalization rates and charges.
A meal plan is a guide that tells you what kinds of food to eat at meals and for snacks. The plan also tells you how much food to have. For most people who have diabetes (and those without, too), a healthy diet consists of 40% to 60% of calories from carbohydrates, 20% from protein and 30% or less from fat. It should be low in cholesterol, low in salt and low in added sugar
When I see clients with diabetes, I notice that the majority comes with a lot of misinformation and confusion about their diets. It would be a wise decision to see a registered dietitian who will explain how eating certain foods will affect your blood sugars. Maybe you’ve seen sample meal plans recommended for people with diabetes that look easy enough to use. But remember, your meal plan is not a short-term diet that you can follow for a few weeks. You are developing a new way of eating that will stay with you throughout your life.
Everyone who has diabetes should be working with a dietitian. That includes, of course, the newly diagnosed, who generally need a crash course in eating for diabetes management. But people who have had diabetes for years also benefit from some one-on-one time with a registered dietitian. “There’s always something new to learn.” Sure, working with a dietitian will help you stay up-to-date on the latest nutrition information, but you’ll also learn about your diabetes as it changes over time. Repeated visits. You’re unlikely to make strides if your visit is a one-time deal.
Just one rushed meeting isn't nearly enough time to learn everything that a dietitian has to offer, says Jacqueline King, a Chicago-area registered dietitian and certified diabetes educator who's had type 1 diabetes for more than 40 years. I'm not a proponent of one-shot dietetics. 1 Teach you how to count carbohydrates in your foods. 2  That is, if carbohydrate-counting is a method you want to use. 3  Your dietitian should also teach you how to control portion sizes and understand the importance of watching your fat and calorie consumption (which people who count their carbs often forget).