Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate Concentrated Injection (also known as potassium phosphate-monobasic) is used to treat patients with lower than normal levels of potassium or phosphate in their blood when the patient is unable to take potassium phosphate by mouth. Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate Concentrated Injection must only be given by a doctor or nurse. Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate Concentrated Injection is a concentrated solution and must be diluted before use.
Sodium phosphate is a generic term for a variety of salts of sodium (Na +) and phosphate (PO 4 3−). Phosphate also forms families or condensed anions including di-, tri-, tetra-, and polyphosphates. Sodium phosphates have many applications in food and for water treatment. For example, sodium phosphates are often used as emulsifiers, thickening agents, and leavening agents for baked goods.
Use as a Supplement. Phosphorus in some form is found in many multivitamin and minerals supplements to help meet the recommended dietary allowance of 700 milligrams per day for adults. Separate potassium phosphate supplements are typically only used for treating low phosphate levels, such as those that occur in certain hereditary disorders. These supplements should only be used under a doctor's supervision. It's safe in the amounts typically used in food for most people, but people with kidney disease who need to watch their phosphate levels may need to avoid foods containing this additive.**Don't take potassium phosphate supplements without first checking with your doctor to make sure it would be safe for you.**.
POTASSIUM DIHYDROGEN PHOSPHATE Prepared at the 19th JECFA (1975), published in NMRS 55B (1976) and in FNP 52 (1992). Metals and arsenic specifications revised at the 63rd JECFA (2004). Then add to each tube exactly 1 ml of 0.1 N hydrochloric acid, and mix well. From a buret, graduated in 0.05 ml, add slowly to the tube containing the distillate enough thorium nitrate solution (1 in 4000) so that, after mixing, the colour of the liquid just changes to a faint pink.
Use as a Food Additive. Potassium phosphate helps stabilize, thicken and regulate the acidity and moisture in foods. It's often used in large amounts in soft drinks, canned fish, processed meats, sausages, ham and baked goods. It's safe in the amounts typically used in food for most people, but people with kidney disease who need to watch their phosphate levels may need to avoid foods containing this additive.**Don't take potassium phosphate supplements without first checking with your doctor to make sure it would be safe for you.**.
Potassium is a mineral that plays many critical roles in the body. Food sources of potassium include fruits (especially dried fruits), cereals, beans, milk, and vegetables. Potassium is used for treating and preventing low potassium levels. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and prevent stroke. Potassium is LIKELY SAFE for most people when given intravenously (by IV) and appropriately or when taken by mouth in amounts of up to 90 mEq of total potassium from the diet and supplements combined. Potassium can cause stomach upset, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, intestinal gas, and other side effects.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Monopotassium phosphate, MKP, (also potassium dihydrogen phosphate, KDP, or monobasic potassium phosphate), KH 2 PO 4, is a soluble salt of potassium and the dihydrogen phosphate ion which is used as a fertilizer, a food additive and a fungicide. It is a source of phosphorus and potassium. It is also a buffering agent. When used in fertilizer mixtures with urea and ammonium phosphates, it minimizes escape of ammonia by keeping the pH at a relatively low level. Single crystals are paraelectric at room temperature. Monopotassium phosphate is produced by the action of phosphoric acid on potassium carbonate. Fertilizer-grade MKP powder contains the equivalent of 52% P 2 O 5 and 34% K 2 O, and is labeled NPK 0-52-34.
Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate 13.6% Concentrated Injection contains 136 mg/mL of potassium dihydrogen phosphate in water for injections. Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate 13.6% Concentrated Injection does not contain gluten, lactose, sucrose, tartrazine or any other azo dyes, alcohol or any preservatives. Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate Concentrated Injection must only be given by a doctor or nurse. Potassium Dihydrogen Phosphate Concentrated Injection is a concentrated solution and must be diluted before use.