The exercises you do with plyometrics mimic those dynamic moves. Plyometrics (plyo, for short) used to be called jump training.. It's a technique that you can use in many different ways. For instance, you can do plyometrics to help train for basketball, volleyball, tennis, or any other activity that uses explosive movements. You'll do a series of jumps and hops, like jump squats or one-leg hops. You might jump up and onto a box or bench, or jump over cones. Some moves will be faster than other
Plyometrics are any exercises that help develop the stretch shortening cycle (SSC) of movement. They start with the stretching of a muscle, an amortisation phase (the period of time from the beginning of the lengthening phase to the beginning of the take-off phase) and then a muscle contraction phase. Here the athlete jumps up from a squatting position. The depth of the squat does not matter and is related to personal preference. This is a concentric-only jump and therefore not strictly speaking a plyometric action as there is no pre-stretching involved.
If you haven’t been doing any plyometric strength work, you can start with a couple of very basic exercises to increase strength and help you jump higher. The first steps to a higher vertical aren’t steps at all; they’re squats and calf raises. Flat-footed squats work your quads and glutes. Consistently incorporating work on your flexibility, using plyometric Strength Shoes, and resistance training can increase your vertical significantly. Talk to your coach about these techniques and products.
Use Plyometric Exercises to develop maximum power and strength for your favorite sport. Plyometrics are a highly effective form of power training designed to significantly improve sports performance. Used by athletes to reach peak physical condition, plyometric exercises manipulate the elasticity and strength of muscles by increasing the speed and force of their contractions. Power = mass x speed / distance. Plyometrics improves the athlete’s ability to apply more force, more rapidly. This ability to generate maximal force can be transformed into a sport-specific power in sports like martial arts, soccer, tennis, basketball and athletics.
Why plyometrics can enhance sport performance over and above simple resistance training. Plyometrics is a topic that has been covered before in Peak Performance, but a number of questions remain about which exercises are best, how much, how often, and to which population should they be given. Here the athlete jumps up from a squatting position. The depth of the squat does not matter and is related to personal preference. This is a concentric-only jump and therefore not strictly speaking a plyometric action as there is no pre-stretching involved.
A Phillip Garrison, NASM Elite Trainer, Sports Medicine, answered on behalf of National Academy of Sports Medicine. Plyometric exercises help increase the bodies ability to rapidly contract their muscles after they have been partially stretched. This is called the stretch shortening cycle. 
Higher than normal forces are put on the musculo-skeletal system during plyometric exercises so it is important for the athlete to have a good sound base of general strength and endurance. Most experts state that a thorough grounding in weight training is essential before you start plyometrics. 
As a result, it is important to distinguish which type of plyometric exercise is used in order to determine its effectiveness and potential to receive the stated benefits. Though the name plyometrics is given to all jumps, not all jumps are plyometric. Since then, the shock method of plyometrics is still being practiced for improvement of athletic performance by what appears to be a relatively limited number of athletes. These athletes still do depth jumps, the key exercise in the shock method, according to the guidelines established by Verkhoshansky.
Flexibility is required both for injury prevention and to enhance the effect of the stretch shortening cycle. In fact, some advanced training methods combine plyometrics and intensive stretching in order to both protect the joint and make it more receptive to the plyometric benefits. Since then, the shock method of plyometrics is still being practiced for improvement of athletic performance by what appears to be a relatively limited number of athletes. These athletes still do depth jumps, the key exercise in the shock method, according to the guidelines established by Verkhoshansky.