Muscle Contraction. Muscle fibers contract in response to nerve stimuli from your central nervous system. This is an active process that involves the release of calcium at the cellular level of the muscle fiber, and causes a ratcheting effect that results in the shortening, or contracting, of individual muscle fibers. SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. Muscle contraction and relaxation occurs in your body multiple times during the course of a day, especially if you are active. Muscles have fibers, and the fibers are grouped into fascicles, or bundles, which form individual skeletal muscles.
Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. If the muscle length changes while muscle tension remains the same, then the muscle contraction is isotonic. In an isotonic contraction, the muscle length can either shorten to produce a concentric contraction or lengthen to produce an eccentric contraction.
Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension remains the same. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric. But if the muscle length lengthens, then the contraction is eccentric. In natural movements that underlie locomotor activity, muscle contractions are multifaceted as they are able to produce changes in length and tension in a time-varying manner. If the muscle length changes while muscle tension remains the same, then the muscle contraction is isotonic. In an isotonic contraction, the muscle length can either shorten to produce a concentric contraction or lengthen to produce an eccentric contraction.
For a contraction to occur there must first be a stimulation of the muscle in the form of an impulse (action potential) from a motor neuron (nerve that connects to muscle). Note that one motor neuron does not stimulate the entire muscle but only a number of muscle fibres within a muscle. In order for a skeletal muscle contraction to occur; 1. There must be a neural stimulus. 2. There must be calcium in the muscle cells. 3. ATP must be available for energy. So, a few things can stop a contraction; 1. Energy system fatigue: There is no more ATP left in the muscle cell so it can’t keep contracting. 2. Nervous system fatigue: The nervous system is not able to create impulses sufficiently or quickly enough to maintain the stimulus and cause calcium to releas
Some of this calcium attaches to troponin which causes a change in the muscle cell that moves tropomyosin out of the way so the cross bridges can attach and produce muscle contraction. In summary the sliding filament theory of muscle contraction can be broken down into four distinct stages, these are; In order for a skeletal muscle contraction to occur; 1. There must be a neural stimulus. 2. There must be calcium in the muscle cells. 3. ATP must be available for energy. So, a few things can stop a contraction; 1. Energy system fatigue: There is no more ATP left in the muscle cell so it can’t keep contracting. 2. Nervous system fatigue: The nervous system is not able to create impulses sufficiently or quickly enough to maintain the stimulus and cause calcium to release.
Muscle contractions: Introduction. Muscle contractions: When a muscle is shortened in use. See detailed information below for a list of 58 causes of Muscle contractions, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. When combined, certain drugs, medications, substances or toxins may react causing Muscle contractions as a symptom. Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments.
to contraction in skeletal muscle. The trigger for a muscle contraction is an electrical impulse. The electrical signal sets off a series of events that lead to crossbridge cycling between myosin and actin, which generates force. The series of events is slightly different between skeletal, smooth and cardiac muscle. 
Muscle spasms and cramps. Cramps are caused by muscle spasms, involuntary contractions of one or more muscles. In addition to the foot and calf muscles, other muscles prone to spasms include the front and back of the thigh, the hands, arms, abdomen and muscles along the ribcage. 
Muscle twitching, also known as muscle fasciculation, is marked by small muscle contractions in the body. Your muscles are composed of fibers, tissues, and nerves. When a nerve is stimulated or damaged, it may cause your muscle fibers to twitch. Many twitches experienced in your body are common and may go unnoticed. 