The basic outline of equine coat color genetics has largely been resolved, and DNA tests to determine the likelihood that a horse will have offspring of a given color have been developed for some colors. While most horses remain the same color throughout life, a few, over the course of several years, will develop a different coat color from that with which they were born. Most white markings are present at birth, and the underlying skin color of a horse does not change, absent disease.
Underneath the coat you can see the skin color, the horse will keep that same skin color for the rest of it's life. If a horse's skin color does change however, there is most certain sign of disease and is a sign you should call your veterinarian. It has a black base color and a dun gene. The horse's coat is solid and mouse-colored gray or even silver with black or dark gray primitive markings. Red dun is a chestnut base with Dun Factors. The coat is light yellow or tan colored with chestnut
1 Roan horses have a solid coat with white hairs mixed in. 2  Specific roan colors are strawberry roan, which is a chestnut horse with white hair mixed in, and blue roan, which is black or brown with white hairs. 3  Paint or Pinto: 4  The paint or pinto horse has large patches of white and black or brown. 1 If the mane and tail is darker than the coat, the horse is called a sorrel. 2  Dun: 3  The dun horse has yellowish hair with black skin. 4  Buckskin horses are dun-colored with black lower limbs, black mane and tail, and a dorsal stripe.
1 Their manes are darker than the coat color. 2  Duns: Duns come in many colors, such as Red (dun and chestnut/sorrel), Grullo (black horse with dun factor, black points and faded grey to dark brown body), bay (bay horse with dun factor), and Mouse (dun on a Brown horse; very murky tan coloring). 1 If only one is present, a chestnut would then be Palomino with white main and tail and with a dark pigmented horse such as Bay you would get a Palomino with a black mane and tail. 2  Cremellos have Blue eyes. 3  Champagne is another dilution gene that acts on the base color of a horse to produce a lighter color.
1 A Blue Roan is a black with white flecks giving a blue tinge. 2  A red Roan is bay with white flecks giving it a red look. 3  Their manes and tails correspond with their base coat, but can be flaxen for strawberry roans, and other roans can have frosting (where the top of the mane/tail is very light in color). 1 If only one is present, a chestnut would then be Palomino with white main and tail and with a dark pigmented horse such as Bay you would get a Palomino with a black mane and tail. 2  Cremellos have Blue eyes. 3  Champagne is another dilution gene that acts on the base color of a horse to produce a lighter color.
Chestnut and black are considered the base colors that all remaining coat color genes act upon. Bay (Agouti) is the most common modifier, restricting the black pigment to the points of the horse. There are a number of dilution genes that lighten these colors in a variety of ways, sometimes affecting skin and eyes as well as hair coat, including cream, dun, pearl, champagne and silver dapple. 
Roan refers to a horse coat color pattern characterized by an even mixture of colored and white hairs on the body, while the head and points—lower legs, mane and tail—are mostly solid-colored. Horses with roan coats have white hairs evenly intermingled throughout any other color. The head, legs, mane and tail have fewer scattered white hairs or none at all. The roan pattern is dominantly-inherited, and is found in many horse breeds. 1 Red roan: red roan used to include both chestnut and bey roans. in 1999, the American Paint Horse Association changed its coat color descriptions: roans with a chestnut background coat are registered red roan while bay roan is its own category. 2  The American Quarter Horse Association followed suit in 2003.
1 Cremello: A horse with a chestnut base coat and two cream genes that wash out almost all color until the horse is a pale cream or light tan color. 2  Often called white, they are not truly white horses, and they do not carry the white (W) gene. 3  A cremello usually has blue eyes. While most horses remain the same color throughout life, a few, over the course of several years, will develop a different coat color from that with which they were born. Most white markings are present at birth, and the underlying skin color of a horse does not change, absent disease.
Roan. Roan horses have white hairs or ticking throughout their coats. Roans are born with their coat color and do not change (at least much) over time. Roans come in a variety of base colors, including but not limited to strawberry (bay), red (chestnut), and blue (black). Horse Coat Colors. Horses come in a variety of vivid coat colors, ranging from solid and static to multifaceted and ever-changing. These coat colors are controlled by complex genetics. Here, we showcase some common equine coat colors you might come across.