Interesting facts about the supraspinatus: You use the supraspinatus muscle to raise your arm over your head. A tight supraspinatus along with trigger points in the muscle can cause clicking of the shoulder. It is often diagnosed as bursitis of the shoulder. 
These forces cause disc degeneration, head and neck pain, rotator cuff impingement, amongst other problems. Regular shoulder stretches can improve posture, improve function, and make us feel and look younger. For a lot of us stress in our lives is manifested by tightness and hyperactivity of our shoulder muscles. Grab your right forearm and bring your hand down toward the floor. Be gentle and repeat after holding for the appropriate time. Posterior joint capsule tightness is often a cause of an anteriorly situated humeral head. This can cause subacromial impingement, tendinitis and bursitis.
Subscapularis Muscle Pain And Trigger Points. An overworked subscapularis muscle may make you feel like you are not able to lift your arm. It may be even responsible for your frozen shoulder. People in which this muscle is too tight, often have a round back and inwardly rotated shoulders. The subscapularis muscle attaches in a planar manner at the inner side of your shoulder blade and connects also atyour tuberculum minus of your humerus-the inner and upper side of your upper arm bone -. The Xs in the picture below display common areas where tender and trigger points develop in this muscle.
Dysfunction in the subscapularis can be caused by any of several problems. Weakness, tightness, trigger points and nerve entrapment (rarely) are the main problems. It can be injured through unbalanced shoulder training and generally shortens if you have bad posture. The Rest of the Problem. There are a few things that complicate things with this seemingly simple issue. 1. Trigger Points. Yes, you’ve heard me rant and rave about trigger points. Here are the big ones in the subscapularis: Note that the referred pain is in the back of the shoulder. If you have trigger points in your subscapularis, any number of things could be going wrong and causing you pain. A tight subscapularis usually manifests itself in pain in the back of the shoulder and a general feeling of tightness in the armpit
The subscapularis is part of the rotator cuff. It is the only muscle in the rotator cuff that has a large advantage in internal rotation. The muscle highlighted in red is the subscapularis muscle. As you can see, it is pretty well-nestled in there with the latissimus dorsi and serratus anterior. The Rest of the Problem. There are a few things that complicate things with this seemingly simple issue. 1. Trigger Points. Yes, you’ve heard me rant and rave about trigger points. Here are the big ones in the subscapularis: Note that the referred pain is in the back of the shoulder. If you have trigger points in your subscapularis, any number of things could be going wrong and causing you pain. A tight subscapularis usually manifests itself in pain in the back of the shoulder and a general feeling of tightness in the armpit
The subscapularis muscle originates from the underside of the shoulder blade and inserts at the front of the upper arm (humerus). It is one of the four rotator cuff muscles. It is a very powerful muscle that rotates the arm inwards (part of the rotator cuff group of muscles). Symptoms of an inflamed subscapularis. Subscapularis tendonitis symptoms include pain when moving the shoulder especially when the arm is raised above the shoulders. Specific tests which may reproduce pain to help diagnosis would include rotating the arm inwards against resistance.
Status: offline. I don't think this is a case of subscapularis tightness. That muscle should not vary by 55 degrees when you abduct the arm, as it is more shortened in the 0 deg abduction position. It sounds more like thickening/adhesion of the mid GH ligament, which is more taut with abduction. Slide your thumb in as far as you can contacting the subscapularis with a flat thumb, not pointy. Hold a firm, but non-compressive contact as you raise the patient's arm until the hand is over the head...do this by abducting and externally rotating the shoulder.
The best known function of this muscle is the inward rotation of your shoulder. When you let your arm hang loose in the neutral/normal position and then turn your arm in a way that your thumb is first facing to your hip and then backwards, you are doing an inward rotation with your shoulder. The subscapularis muscle attaches in a planar manner at the inner side of your shoulder blade and connects also atyour tuberculum minus of your humerus-the inner and upper side of your upper arm bone -. The Xs in the picture below display common areas where tender and trigger points develop in this muscle.
Complete Massage Plan for Subscapularis Injury. A tight subscapularis muscle is the most implicated in rotator cuff injuries. Learn how to assess this hidden muscle, mobilize it, release it, stretch it and prevent a recurring injury to the subscapularis. The rotator cuff is named for the “cuff” of tendons from four muscles attached side by side at the head of the humerus.