You can check your pulse by counting how many times your heart beats in a minute. This is also known as your heart rate. Your heart rate can vary, depending on what you're doing. For example, it will be slower if you're sleeping and faster if you're exercising.
Without nervous system control, your heart would beat around 100 times per minute. However, when you are relaxed, your parasympathetic nervous system sets a resting heart beat rate of about 70 beats per minute, (resting heart rate is usually between 72-80 beats per minute in women and 64-72 beats per minute in men).
If you want to determine your maximum heart rate, or the maximum number of times your heart can beat per minute, subtract your age from 220. Say, for example, you are 40 years old. Subtracting 40 from 220 leaves 180, the maximum number of heart beats per minute for a 40-year-old.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower.
1 Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised. 3  Taking a person's pulse is a direct measure of heart rate.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA.
Pin It. Your heart rate (a.k.a. pulse) is a measure of how many times your heart beats in a minute. Generally, a healthy resting heart rate (RHR) varies between 50 and 90 beats per minute (bpm), but this number can vary depending on factors such as medications and fitness levels.
The average adult heart beat average is 70-75 beats per minute. Children have a higher rate in the 80's and 90's, depending on their age. The younger they are the faster the heart rate. Females, generally, have a slightly higher heart rate than males.
The normal pulse rate for humans is usually 60 to 100 beats per minute, however, there are certain medical conditions such as cardiac arrhythmia which may alter the normal pulse rate of an individual. Other influencing factors include your age, gender and fitness level.