Noun. 1. TNF-a proinflammatory cytokine that is produced by white blood cells (monocytes and macrophages); has an antineoplastic effect but causes inflammation (as in rheumatoid arthritis). tumor necrosis factor, tumour necrosis factor. 
TNF blockers suppress the immune system by blocking the activity of TNF, a substance in the body that can cause inflammation and lead to immune-system diseases, such as Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and plaque psoriasis. 
This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secreted by macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A/TNFR1 and TNFRSF1B/TNFBR. 1 TNF-alpha -1031CC genotype was a risk factor for CP, and that TNF-alpha -308AA genotype was a risk factor for AgP. 2  But there is a lack of association of TNF-alpha -857C/T and -238G/A polymorphisms with susceptibility to AgP or CP in a Chinese population.
1 Allergic lung inflammation is mediated by soluble tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and attenuated by dominant-negative TNF biologics. 2  This study suggested that TNF-alpha -308GG and G gene polymorphism was associated with a modest decrease in the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma in a Chinese population. 1 TNF-alpha -1031CC genotype was a risk factor for CP, and that TNF-alpha -308AA genotype was a risk factor for AgP. 2  But there is a lack of association of TNF-alpha -857C/T and -238G/A polymorphisms with susceptibility to AgP or CP
Entrez Gene Summary for TNF Gene. This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secreted by macrophages. TNF (Tumor Necrosis Factor) is a Protein Coding gene. Diseases associated with TNF include mycobacterium chelonae and aphthous stomatitis. Among its related pathways are MAPK signaling pathway and Proteoglycans in cancer. GO annotations related to this gene include identical protein binding and cytokine activity.
tumor necrosis factor (TNF) either of two lymphokines produced primarily by cells of the immune system, capable of causing in vivo hemorrhagic necrosis of certain tumor cells but not normal cells. They also destroy cells associated with the inflammatory response. 
From NCBI Gene : This gene encodes a multifunctional proinflammatory cytokine that belongs to the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily. This cytokine is mainly secreted by macrophages. It can bind to, and thus functions through its receptors TNFRSF1A/TNFR1 and TNFRSF1B/TNFBR. The official name of this gene is “tumor necrosis factor.”. TNF is the gene's official symbol. The TNF gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
1 Tumor necrosis factor (TNF), formerly known as TNFα or TNF alpha, is the best-known member of this class. 2  TNF is a monocyte-derived cytotoxin that has been implicated in tumor regression, septic shock, and cachexia. Tumor necrosis factors (or the TNF family) refer to a group of cytokines that can cause cell death (apoptosis). The first two members of the family to be identified were: 1  Tumor necrosis factor (TNF), formerly known as TNFα or TNF alpha, is the best-known member of this class. 2  Lymphotoxin-alpha, formerly known as Tumor necrosis factor-beta (TNF-β), is a cytokine that is inhibited by interleukin 10
1 Results suggest that tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a major cytokine involved in inflammatory reaction and a mortality predictor in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). 2  TNF-alpha-857 gene polymorphisms influence severity of the disease. 1 TNF-alpha -1031CC genotype was a risk factor for CP, and that TNF-alpha -308AA genotype was a risk factor for AgP. 2  But there is a lack of association of TNF-alpha -857C/T and -238G/A polymorphisms with susceptibility to AgP or CP in a Chinese population.