Original Equipment Manufacturer Law & Legal Definition. An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) makes equipment or components that are then marketed by its client, another manufacturer or a reseller, usually under that reseller's own name. An OEM may make complete devices or just certain components, either of which can then be configured by the reseller. 
The term OEM stands for Original Equipment Manufacturer. What does that really mean? It means that the part was made by a company that is a subcontractor to a vehicle manufacturer. It DOES NOT mean the part was made by the manufacturer. Some examples; 1  Most fuel parts on a VW are made by Bosch. 2  This means that Bosch is the OEM for VW regardless of where you buy the Bosch part it is still OEM.
1. The original definition: a company whose products are used as components in another company's product. The OEM will generally work closely with the company that sells the finished product (often called a value-added reseller or VAR) and customize the designs based on the VAR's needs. 2.
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM). 1 COMMENTS. IMAGE: Advertisement. An original equipment manufacturer (OEM) makes equipment or components that are then marketed by its client, another manufacturer or a reseller, usually under that reseller's own name. An OEM may make complete devices or just certain components, either of which can then be configured by the reseller
Pega. OEM (original equipment manufacturer) is a broad term whose meaning has evolved over time. In the past, OEM referred to the company that originally built a given product, which was then sold to other companies to rebrand and resell. Over time, however, the term is more frequently used to describe those companies in the business of rebranding a manufacturer's products and selling them to end customers. A hardware OEM, for example, might acquire a vendor's products -- servers or storage systems, for example -- and rebrand and resell the vendor's equipment without modification. Alternatively, it may incorporate and bundle the vendor's products with its own technology for resale.
An original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, manufactures products or components that are purchased by another company and retailed under that purchasing company's brand name. OEM refers to the company that originally manufactured the product. An original design manufacturer (ODM) is a company which designs and manufactures a product which is specified and eventually branded by another firm for sale. Such companies allow the brand firm to produce (either as a supplement or solely) without having to engage in the organization or running of a factory.
OEM (pronounced as separate letters) is short for o riginal equipment manufacturer, which is a misleading term used to describe a company that has a special relationship with computer and IT producers. OEMs are manufacturers who resell another company's product under their own name and branding. 
Definition of:OEM. (O riginal E quipment M anufacturer) The rebranding of equipment and selling it. The term initially referred to the company that made the products (the original manufacturer), but eventually became widely used to refer to the organization that buys the products and resells them. However, the OEM reseller is often the designer of the equipment, which is made to order. 
OEM redirects here. For other uses, see OEM (disambiguation) . Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) is a term used when one company makes a part or subsystem that is used in another company's end product. The term is used in several ways each of which is clear in context. It can refer to a part or subsystems maker, an end product producer, or an automotive part that is manufactured by the same company that produced the original part used in assembly.