Nit: Nits are lice eggs. They are generally easy to see in the seams of an infested person's clothing, particularly around the waistline and under armpits. Body lice nits occasionally also may be attached to body hair. They are oval and usually yellow to white in color. Body lice nits may take 1–2 weeks to hatch. Nymph: A nymph is an immature louse that hatches from the nit (egg). A nymph looks like an adult body louse, but is smaller. Nymphs mature into adults about 9–12 days after hatching. 
The eggs are glued to the hair shaft very close to the scalp. Head lice live only about 30 to 40 days. They die in 1 or 2 days when removed from the head, and eggs die soon after being removed from the warm scalp. Head lice do not wander about rugs, furniture, or school buses seeking a host. The eggs hatch in about 8 or 9 days. The newly hatched louse (nymph) will suck blood for food and shed its skin (molt) three times as it develops into an adult over a 10-day period. The young lice and adults live their entire lives on the head, feeding on blood. The entire life cycle takes about 3 weeks.
Life Cycle. The life cycle of a louse begins as an egg, also called a nit. The nit is a 1mm whitish-yellow speck that attaches itself firmly to an individual hair strand close to the scalp. After 7 to 10 days, the nit hatches and becomes what is known as a nymph, or a young louse. Don’t Worry. Getting rid of a case of head lice can be time-consuming and tedious, but it’s not a health hazard. Lice don’t carry disease and don’t harm the head or scalp. Prevent head lice by not sharing combs, hairbrushes, hair accessories, towels, bedding, hats, or scarves with a person infected with the parasite.
Pubic lice have three forms: the egg (also called a nit), the nymph, and the adult. Nit: Nits are lice eggs. They can be hard to see and are found firmly attached to the hair shaft. They are oval and usually yellow to white. Pubic lice nits take about 6–10 days to hatch. Nymph: The nymph is an immature louse that hatches from the nit (egg). A nymph looks like an adult pubic louse but it is smaller. Pubic lice nymphs take about 2–3 weeks after hatching to mature into adults capable of reproducing. 
As long as there’s a food source readily available, an adult louse can live for as long as 30 days on a human. However, this short lifespan is perpetuated by the constant laying of eggs. Female lice lay up to six eggs each day. Don’t Worry. Getting rid of a case of head lice can be time-consuming and tedious, but it’s not a health hazard. Lice don’t carry disease and don’t harm the head or scalp. Prevent head lice by not sharing combs, hairbrushes, hair accessories, towels, bedding, hats, or scarves with a person infected with the parasite.
Nymphs and fully mature adults can survive for only about a day without a food source. Adult lice can’t live past 24 hours or so on non-human surfaces such as carpets, hardwood flooring, clothing, furniture, sports helmets, headphones, or hair accessories. Don’t Worry. Getting rid of a case of head lice can be time-consuming and tedious, but it’s not a health hazard. Lice don’t carry disease and don’t harm the head or scalp. Prevent head lice by not sharing combs, hairbrushes, hair accessories, towels, bedding, hats, or scarves with a person infected with the parasite.
Adult head lice are about 1/8 inch long, grayish, flattened, and wingless. Their legs are claw-like, designed to hold onto hair. These lice excrete partially digested blood which can appear as 'black dandruff'. Lice eggs, commonly referred to as nits, are whitish, oval and the size of a pinhead (1/30 inch long). They are attached to hair near the scalp. Nits that are found further than 1/2 inch from the scalp nearly always have hatched or died. Young head lice (called nymphs) are mobile and molt three times, developing into mature adults in about three weeks. Adults can live for about four weeks but do not lay eggs until after seven days. Head lice do not survive off a host for more than one or two days. Head lice do not jump or fly.
One of the biggest causes of re-infestation is not getting the lice out of your environment. Lice will live up to 48 hours off your head, and nits will survive for up to 10 days on your sofa, your car seats, your bedding, etc. You must treat your head and your home environment to end a lice infestation in one day, and stop it from coming back. 
Use nit combs or cat flea combs to remove the lice and eggs. Because eggs can hatch for up to 10 days after they are laid, comb hair daily for two weeks after you find the last live head lice, to remove any young that have emerged. Young head lice (called nymphs) are mobile and molt three times, developing into mature adults in about three weeks. Adults can live for about four weeks but do not lay eggs until after seven days. Head lice do not survive off a host for more than one or two days. Head lice do not jump or fly.