Imipramine (G 22355), sold as Tofranil and also known as melipramine, is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) of the dibenzazepine group. Imipramine is mainly used in the treatment of major depression and enuresis (inability to control urination). It has also been evaluated for use in panic disorder. Imipramine is used in the treatment of depression, such as depression associated with agitation or anxiety. It is similar in efficacy to the antidepressant drug moclobemide. It has also been used to treat nocturnal enuresis because of its ability to shorten the time of delta wave stage sleep, where wetting occurs
Imipramine is used to treat depression. It belongs to a group of medicines known as tricyclic antidepressants (TCA). These medicines are thought to work by increasing the activity of a chemical called serotonin in the brain. Imipramine tablets are also used to treat enuresis (bedwetting) in children. 
Uses. This medication is used to treat depression. It is also used with other therapies for the treatment of nighttime bed-wetting (enuresis) in children. Using this medication to treat depression may improve your mood, sleep, appetite, and energy level and may help restore your interest in daily living. Imipramine can help your child control nighttime bed-wetting. When used in children for bed-wetting, imipramine should be taken one hour before bedtime. If your child usually wets the bed early in the night, the drug may be given earlier in separate doses (e.g., one dose in the afternoon and one dose at bedtime). Follow your doctor's instructions carefully.
Tofranil ® (imipramine hydrochloride) is a tricyclic antidepressant that is prescribed to treat a couple of conditions related to the nervous system. Tofranil is different from Tofranil PM ® , a similar medication that is only approved for the treatment of depression. (Click Imipramine for information about the differences between Tofranil and Tofranil PM.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Imipramine is an antidepressant medication of the tricyclic class. Medications in this class are often referred to as tricyclic antidepressants or TCAs. Depression is defined as an all-pervasive sense of sadness and gloom. PRESCRIBED FOR: Imipramine is FDA approved for treating depression and enuresis (bedwetting). It is sometimes used off-label to treat chronic pain in combination with other pain medications.
Imipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant. Imipramine affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced. Imipramine is used to treat symptoms of depression. Imipramine is sometimes used to treat bed-wetting in children ages 6 and older. Imipramine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Imipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant. Imipramine affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced. Imipramine is used to treat symptoms of depression. Imipramine is sometimes used to treat bed-wetting in children ages 6 and older. Imipramine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. To make sure imipramine is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  heart disease, a history of heart attack, stroke, or seizures; 2  bipolar disorder (manic-depression), schizophrenia or other mental illness; 3  kidney or liver disease; 4  overactive thyroid, adrenal gland tumor (pheochromocytoma);
Imipramine (Tofranil, Tofranil-PM) is an antidepressant medication prescribed for the treatment of depression, bedwetting, and chronic pain. Side effects, drug interactions, pregnancy safety, and precautions should be reviewed prior to taking this medication. 