Sri Lanka is the oldest continually Buddhist country, Theravada Buddhism being the major religion in the island since its official introduction in the 2nd century BC by Venerable Mahinda, the son of the Emperor Ashoka of India during the reign of King Devanampiya-Tissa. The stupa in Sri Lanka is a circular drum on a square base with a long succession of compressed umbrellas forming a conical top over a box-shaped harmika, of which the Ruwanweliseya stupa, (above right) at Anuradhapura (3rd century BC) is a fine example.
The second relic to be placed in the Stupa is a remnant of the body of the Buddha himself. Like the third and fourth specified relics, which are a piece of the Buddhas' robe and a white grain of the Buddha's bone respectively, these are rare and hard to come by. The Stupa represents Buddha's holy mind, Dharmakaya, and each part of the Stupa shows the path to Enlightenment. Building a Stupa is a very powerful way to purify negative karma and obscurations, and to accumulate extensive merit.
Stupa Island. In the centre of the foyer is a glass-encased formation of many small stupas and statues surrounding a two-feet tall Kadampa stupa. There are rows of six-inch tall Maitreya Buddha statues, gold medallions embossed with 1,000-armed Chenresig, and five-inch Enlightenment stupas. 
1 Relic stupa, in which the relics or remains of the Buddha, his disciples and lay saints are interred. 2  Object stupa, in which the items interred are objects belonged to the Buddha or his disciples such as a begging bowl or robe, or important Buddhist scriptures. After the parinirvana of the Buddha, his remains were cremated and the ashes divided and buried under eight mounds with two further mounds encasing the urn and the embers. The earliest archaeological evidence for the presence of Buddhist stupas dates to the late 4th century BCE in India.
The shape of the stupa represents the Buddha, crowned and sitting in meditation posture on a lion throne. His crown is the top of the spire; his head is the square at the spire's base; his body is the vase shape; his legs are the four steps of the lower terrace; and the base is his throne.. After the parinirvana of the Buddha, his remains were cremated and the ashes divided and buried under eight mounds with two further mounds encasing the urn and the embers. The earliest archaeological evidence for the presence of Buddhist stupas dates to the late 4th century BCE in India.
Borobudur, or Barabudur, is a 9th-century Mahayana Buddhist Temple in Magelang, Central Java, Indonesia. The monument consists of nine stacked platforms, six square and three circular, topped by a central dome. The temple is decorated with 2,672 relief panels and 504 Buddha statues. The central dome is surrounded by 72 Buddha statues, each seated inside a perforated stupa.
(Professor Robert Thurman, from the Foreword to Buddhist Stupas in Asia: the Shape of Perfection). Stupa is a Sanskrit word that means “to heap” or “to pile up” and refers to the mound-like shape of the earliest stupas. The Mahaparinirvana Sutra tells us that it was the Buddha himself who outlined the basic design of the stupa. Stupas are representations of the Buddha’s mind. They reveal the path to enlightenment, or how the mind can actualize its full potential and be transformed into enlightenment. Stupas can be seen as an expression of the five elements. 1  Earth, which spreads out in the four directions, provides the solid basis.
A stupa (Sanskrit: m., stūpa heap) is a mound-like or hemispherical structure containing śarīra relics, typically the remains of Buddhist monks or nuns, used as a place of meditation. After the parinirvana of the Buddha, his remains were cremated and the ashes divided and buried under eight mounds with two further mounds encasing the urn and the embers. The earliest archaeological evidence for the presence of Buddhist stupas dates to the late 4th century BCE in India.
Thuparama Stupa and the Vatadage. This is the first stupa to be built in the country after the introduction of Buddhism to Sri Lanka. Built in the time of king Devamnampiyatissa (250BC – 210BC) this was a stupa as well as an Aramic complex (monastery). Today ruins of this complex covers nearly 3 ½ acres. 