1 Your desired name must be included, typically with a corporate identifier, such as Corporation, Incorporated, Company, or an abbreviation, such as Inc.. 2  You may want to conduct a preliminary name availability search before submitting the Articles of Incorporation. Regardless of whether you are forming a C corporation or an S corporation, the company formation document is called the Articles of Incorporation or Certificate of Incorporation. This document provides the state with necessary information on your business. 1 Many states require the names and addresses of the corporation’s initial directors in incorporation documents. 2  Directors are responsible for overseeing the corporation’s affairs, including major corporate decisions. 3  They are elected by shareholders and responsible for appointing officers. 4  Officers.
A copy of a document on file with the state (such as Articles of Incorporation/Organization) that is certified by the state as being a true and correct copy. Most states attach a cover page bearing the state seal or the signature of the Secretary of State to a copy of the articles or certificate of formation. Business owners occasionally need to get copies of their most important state-filed documents, such as Articles of Incorporation and amendments. Certified Copies are state-issued, exact copies of your original business documents.
Regardless of whether you are forming a C corporation or an S corporation, the company formation document is called the Articles of Incorporation or Certificate of Incorporation. 1 Many states require the names and addresses of the corporation’s initial directors in incorporation documents. 2  Directors are responsible for overseeing the corporation’s affairs, including major corporate decisions. 3  They are elected by shareholders and responsible for appointing officers. 4  Officers.
For a more general discussion of forming a business, see Incorporation (business) . Company formation is the term for the process of incorporation of a business in the UK. It is also sometimes referred to as company registration. Under UK company law and most international law, a company or corporation is considered an entity that is separate from the people who own or operate the company. Today the majority of UK companies are formed the same day electronically.
1 Replace a lost or misplaced original. 2  It’s critical to keep the original of your formation documents or any other state-filed document with your company records. 3  If the originals are ever lost or misplaced, be sure to request a Certified Copy from the state of formation or qualification. A Certified Copy is a true, exact copy of your company’s incorporation or other state-filed document, as issued by the state and is often used for the following purposes: 1  Replace a lost or misplaced original. 2  Provide additional proof of authenticity. 3  Open a bank account. 4  Foreign
1 Corporate name. 2  Your desired name must be included, typically with a corporate identifier, such as Corporation, Incorporated, Company, or an abbreviation, such as Inc.. 3  You may want to conduct a preliminary name availability search before submitting the Articles of Incorporation. Regardless of whether you are forming a C corporation or an S corporation, the company formation document is called the Articles of Incorporation or Certificate of Incorporation. This document provides the state with necessary information on your business. 1 Many states require the names and addresses of the corporation’s initial directors in incorporation documents. 2  Directors are responsible for overseeing the corporation’s affairs, including major corporate decisions. 3  They are elected by shareholders and responsible for appointing officers. 4  Officers.
1 File or prepare formation documents to form a business that will be based in Tennessee. 2  Register or prepare documents to obtain a Certificate of Authority to transact business in Tennessee if your business was formed in another state. 
The most frequently used business entities are the business corporation and the limited liability company. The formation of these entities governed by the statutory framework of the Business Corporation Law (hereinafter “BCL”) and the Limited Liability Law (hereinafter “LLC”), respectively. Although the distinctions between these two entities are varied, this article does not attempt to address those issues. The corporation’s existence begins upon filing of the certificate of incorporation with the Department of State or on a specific date, not to exceed ninety dates from the date of filing, set forth in the certificate of incorporation. (See BCL Section 403 at the NYS Senate site .). III.
1 Open a bank account. 2  A Certified Copy of your company’s formation documents is often needed in order to open a bank account. 3  Foreign qualification. 4  A Certified Copy or a Certificate of Good Standing are typically required in order to register your company to transact business in another state (foreign qualify). A Certified Copy is a true, exact copy of your company’s incorporation or other state-filed document, as issued by the state and is often used for the following purposes: 1  Replace a lost or misplaced original. 2  Provide additional proof of authenticity. 3  Open a bank account. 4
1 It’s critical to keep the original of your formation documents or any other state-filed document with your company records. 2  If the originals are ever lost or misplaced, be sure to request a Certified Copy from the state of formation or qualification. 3  Provide additional proof of authenticity. A Certified Copy is a true, exact copy of your company’s incorporation or other state-filed document, as issued by the state and is often used for the following purposes: 1  Replace a lost or misplaced original. 2  Provide additional proof of authenticity. 3  Open a bank account. 4  Foreign