Unicellular eukaryotic organisms-these organisms are unicellular and are eukaryotes. They have membrane bound true nucleus and other membrane bound organelles. These are mainly free living or aquatic parasites like the protozoans, some fungi and algae or some protists. Unicellular organisms are of two types Unicellular prokaryotic organisms and unicellular eukaryotic organisms. Unicellular prokaryotic organisms-they are unicellular in nature and they do not have membrane bound nucleus and membrane bound cellular organelles. These organisms are usually bacteria and cyanobacteria. Example: E.coli, Salmonella, Nostoc, etc
A unicellular organism, also known as a single-celled organism, is an organism that consists of only one cell, unlike a multicellular organism that consists of more than one cell. Historically the simple single celled organisms have sometimes been referred to as Monads. Some organisms are partially uni-and multicellular, like Dictyostelium discoideum. The other can be unicellular and multinucleate, like Myxogastria and Plasmodium. Candidatus Magnetoglobus multicellularis, related to Deltaproteobacteria, is a multicellular prokaryote.
Prokaryotes, most Protista, and some fungi, are unicellular. Although some of these organisms live in colonies, they are still unicellular. These organisms live together, and each cell in the colony is the same. However, each individual cell must carry out all life processes to survive. Some organisms are partially uni-and multicellular, like Dictyostelium discoideum. The other can be unicellular and multinucleate, like Myxogastria and Plasmodium. Candidatus Magnetoglobus multicellularis, related to Deltaproteobacteria, is a multicellular prokaryote.
NEL 6.2 Unicellular Organisms 143 Unicellular Organisms 6.2 Unicellular organisms perform the same life processes as multicellular organisms. Individually, these cells can only be seen using a microscope. 
Therefore, specialized cells will contain more of the parts it needs to carry out the specialized task … . A unicellular organism has only one cell, which means that it has to carry out all functions of life in a single cell. Thus, it will have all the needed parts rather than specialized parts. 15 people found this useful.
These organisms have a well-developed body structure and they have specific organ to perform specific function. Most of the well developed plants and animals are multicellular. Examples are almost all species of gymnosperm and angiosperm plants and almost all animals are eukaryotic and mutlicellular. Unicellular organisms are of two types Unicellular prokaryotic organisms and unicellular eukaryotic organisms. Unicellular prokaryotic organisms-they are unicellular in nature and they do not have membrane bound nucleus and membrane bound cellular organelles. These organisms are usually bacteria and cyanobacteria. Example: E.coli, Salmonella, Nostoc, etc
A unicellular organism (also called single cell organism) is an organism made up of only one cell. Algae, some types of fungus, and bacteria are some examples. These organisms are not very complex, and all their body functions are carried out in that single tiny cell. 8 people found this useful. A unicellular organism has only one cell, which means that it has to carry out all functions of life in a single cell. Thus, it will have all the needed parts rather than specialized parts. 15
Their body is made up of just one single cell. E.g. - Amoeba, Paramecium. The oldest forms of life are the unicellular organisms and they existed 3.8 billion years ago. Bacteria, Amoeba, protozia, viruses, diatoms are the five different types of unicellular organisms. This single cell regulates the various functions of the body. Unicellular organisms are invisible to the naked eye. 
In the vast majority of plants and animals, the body is made up of numerous cells. They are called multicellular organisms. A multicellular organism is actually an aggregation of cells. Here a group of cells functions in a same way to form a tissue or an organ (Example: Xylem vessels, cork cells, cells in the skin). Multicellular organisms have a great capacity to survive than unicellular organisms. 