This is a list of Thinker sculptures made by Auguste Rodin. The original Thinker was a part of Rodin's The Gates of Hell. The sculpture exists in several versions. The original size and the later monumental size versions were both created by Rodin. The most valuable versions are those created under Rodin's supervision. Copies of the Thinker made during Rodin's lifetime [edit]. Vandals damaged The Thinker at the Cleveland Museum of Art. It remains unrepaired. According to police, the perpetrators were a faction of the Weathermen, possibly the same individuals killed in a bomb-making accident in New York City No one was ever charged.
The Thinker (French: Le Penseur) is a bronze sculpture by Auguste Rodin, usually placed on a stone pedestal. There are about 28 full size castings, in which the figure is about 186 centimetres (73 in) high, though not all were made during Rodin's lifetime and under his supervision, as well as various other versions, several in plaster, studies, and posthumous castings, in a range of sizes.
About The Thinker. One of Auguste Rodin's most famous works, The Thinker was part of a commission for the Museum of Decorative Arts in Paris. Although the museum was never built, the commission for the doors was begun, though never completed. The Gates of Hell is considered one of Rodin's masterworks. Aside from the Cleveland Museum of Art's large cast of The Thinker, there are several other sculptures in the museum's collection that directly relate to Rodin's plans for the Gates of Hell. The museum owns two smaller versions of The Thinker, 27 inches and 14 inches respectively.
Rodin's The Thinker was originally part of The Gates of Hell which was completed on commission in 1882. What became known as The Thinker was originally intended to represent the poet Dante as he contemplated writing The Divine Comedy, on which The Gates of Hell was based. 
Rodin made the first small plaster version around 1880. The first large-scale bronze casting was finished in 1902 but not presented to the public until 1904. It became the property of the city of Paris — thanks to a subscription organized by Rodin admirers — and was put in front of the Pantheon panthéon in. 1906 There are about 28 full size castings, in which the figure is about 186 centimetres (73 in) high, though not all were made during Rodin's lifetime and under his supervision, as well as various other versions, several in plaster, studies, and posthumous castings, in a range of sizes.
At this time a subscription was begun for the most famous cast of it, that for the city of Paris, which was placed in front of the Pantheon. Bronze casts of the large Thinker were not made by Rodin himself, but by a professional reducteur, Henri Lebosse, under the artist's supervision. The first large bronze (University of Louisville) was cast by A. A. Hebrard in 1904 for the Louisiana Purchase Exposition in Saint Louis, but was rejected by the artist. 
The Thinker. One of Auguste Rodin’s most famous sculptures is The Thinker Statue, a piece originally conceived to be part of another work. The Thinker was part of a commission by the Museum of Decorative Arts in Paris to sculpt a monumental door based on The Divine Comedy of Dante
The Thinker statue that sits in front of Grawemeyer Hall is the first large-scale bronze cast of The Thinker. French sculptor Auguste Rodin personally supervised the casting in Paris. It came out of the mold Dec. 25, 1903, and was completed in early 1904. The origins of The Thinker date to 1880. Rodin originally conceived of The Thinker as a statue to be installed at the top of a pair of monumental doors he'd been commissioned to design for a museum of decorative arts. He envisioned the figure as The Inferno poet Dante looking down on hell.
The Gates of Hell. Auguste Rodin. The Thinker was originally part of the compositional piece Rodin created as an entranceway for the proposed Musee musée Des Arts decoratifs Décoratifs. In paris, this piece Known As the Gates, of hell is based on the 16th century, Epic Poem The divine Comedy. by dante 