… 3 and every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God; this is the spirit of the antichrist, of which you have heard that it is coming, and now it is already in the world. 4 You are from God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world. Jubilee Bible 2000. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than he that
You are of God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is he who is in you than he who is in the world. - World English Bible. Ye, litle sones, ben of God, and ye han ouercome hym; for he that is in you is more, than he that is in the world. - Wycliffe Bible.
You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. New King James Version (NKJV). Scripture taken from the New King James Version®.
So you have won the victory over these people, because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world. New American Standard 1977. You are from God, little children, and have overcome them; because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world. Jubilee Bible 2000. Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them because greater is he that is in you than he that
Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world. - Webster's Bible. As for you, dear children, you are God's children, and have successfully resisted them; for greater is He who is in you than he who
4You, dear children, are from God and have overcome them, because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world. 5They are from the world and therefore speak from the viewpoint of the world, and the world listens to them.
Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.
You, little children, are from God and have overcome them, because greater is He who is in you than he who is in the world. Berean Literal Bible. You are of God, little children, and have overcome them, because He who is in you is greater