Aries. How Mercury retrograde will affect you for the April May 2010 retrograde period: Anything to do with finances, possession or property is affected during this period. You can expect delays, and mix-ups, some small and some grand.
About 19% of the movement of Mercury is retrograde. This implies that about 1/5 of people have retrograde Mercury in their radix. In 2016, Mercury retrogrades four times, all in the earth signs of Capricorn, Taurus and Virgo and then Capricorn again. This year's Mercury retrograde points to the end of a nine-year cycle that started in 2008.
Sometimes the other planets appear to be traveling backward through the zodiac; this is an illusion. We call this illusion retrograde motion. Three times a year, it appears as if Mercury is going backwards for about three weeks. This time was traditionally associated with confusions, delay, and frustration.
It goes in a retrograde motion or motion that makes it appear to be going backwards in the night sky three times a year for approximately three weeks at a time. When Mercury is retrograde, there s usually much confusion. People forget little things.
Mercury goes retrograde three times a year for about three weeks at a time. The next time is coming up soon — Sept. 19 through Oct. 9. The dates for Mercury retrograde for the next few years are: 2016: Jan. 5 - Jan. 25, April 28 - May 22, Aug. 30 - Sept. 22, Dec. 19, 2016 - Jan. 8, 2017.
The planet Mercury rules communication, travel, contracts, automobiles, and such. So,when Mercury is retrograde, remain flexible, allow time for extra travel, and avoid signing contracts.
During Mercury retrograde you do not have all the facts...so usually this is not a good time for surgery.At the same time..you could have some other transitsbor aspects that suggest it is a good time. But in general, I personally hold of a decision during a mercury retrograde period.
Mercury will be in retrograde for about 3 weeks. The sun is now in Taurus, moving into Gemini on May 22. Linda Goodman has written books that will help you to answer your questions.