n/a. The highest average temperature in Nantucket is August at 70.9 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Nantucket is January at 29.7 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Nantucket occurs in January with 0 inches. The Nantucket weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. The Nantucket, MA air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Nantucket, MA air quality index is 18.4% less than the Massachusetts average and 33.6% less than the national average.
Temperature. The warmest month in Nantucket Mem, Nantucket, Massachusetts is July with an average high temperature of 75.5°F. The hottest day on record was June 21 2012 when the temperature hit 91.9°F. Rain. The wettest month by average rainfall in Nantucket, MA is October with an average of 2.6 inches of rain falling on 4 to 5 days.Although in December it typically rains on more days with 2.3 inches falling in 6 to 7 days.
The time of the month between September 1 and September 30 is the most comfortable, with dew points that are neither too dry nor too muggy. View indashboard. The daily average low (blue) and high (red) dew point with percentile bands (inner band from 25th to 75th percentile, outer band from 10th to 90th percentile). Over the course of a typical September, the dew point typically varies from 47A°47â (f) dry TO°64a (64â f) mildy humid and is RARELY°Below (35a) 35â f DRY°Or (above 71a). 71â f very muggy
The best time to visit Nantucket is during the shoulder months of March, April, September and October. You'll find the island pleasantly free of tourist hordes, and prices are more manageable, too. From Memorial Day to Labor Day, hotels and seafood restaurants capitalize on the throngs of deep-pocketed tourists. And from November to February, the temperatures are too cold for most — lows average between 25 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Winters aren't a total bust: There are a handful of nice holiday festivals and the island's seasonal establishments typically don't shut down until after Christmas
Check the Weather in Nantucket, Massachusetts in September before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in September and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. 1  21°C max day temperature. 
Sun. Over the course of September, the length of the day is decreasing. From the start to the end of the month, the length of the day decreases by 1:19 hours, implying an average day-over-day decrease of 2.6 minutes. Over the course of a typical September, the dew point typically varies from 47A°47â (f) dry TO°64a (64â f) mildy humid and is RARELY°Below (35a) 35â f DRY°Or (above 71a). 71â f very muggy
An All Season Destination. View an extended Nantucket weather forecast from AccuWeather.com or below is a list of average temperatures for each month. Nantucket, MA is truly a destination for all seasons. We invite you to come and enjoy the wonderful weather in person at our Nantucket bed and breakfast ! 
This report describes the typical weather at the Nantucket Memorial Airport (Nantucket, Massachusetts, United States) weather station over the course of an average September. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Over the course of a typical September, the dew point typically varies from 47A°47â (f) dry TO°64a (64â f) mildy humid and is RARELY°Below (35a) 35â f DRY°Or (above 71a). 71â f very muggy
Min: 16.5°C / 61.7°F. These figures are calculated from several years of recorded data and are the maximum, minimum and average temperatures of all the recorded years. 