MIG welding is an abbreviation for Metal Inert Gas Welding. It is a process developed in the 1940’s, and is considered semi-automated. This means that the welder still requires skill, but that the MIG welding machine will continuously keep filling the joint being welded. MIG welders consist of a handle with a trigger controlling a wire feed, feeding the wire from a spool to the weld joint. The wire is similar to an endless bicycle brake cable
MIG welding is an acronym for Metal Inert Gas Welding. This process is sometimes also referred to as Gas Metal Arc Welding (GMAW). MIG Welding is used for aluminum as well as other metals and can be automatic or semi-automatic. MIG Welding uses a wire that is connected to a direct current source which acts as an electrode and combines two pieces of metal through continuous flow by use of a welding tool or gun. Due to the fast welding that the MIG process allows, it has also been applied to the use of welding steel. It is the only method of welding used today for automobiles, and is also a leading welding technique in virtually all industries. However, because of the use of an inert gas MIG Welding cannot be used outdoors.
MIG welding a large pipe. MIG welding closeup. Metal inert gas welding, also called gas metal arc welding, allows for the relatively quick bonding of metal pieces. MIG welding is done to join two pieces of aluminum or other non-ferrous metals. Welders should wear helmets and gloves for protection
1 Flux-cored arc welding (FCAW) - almost identical to MIG welding except it uses a special tubular wire filled with flux; it can be used with or without shielding gas, depending on the filler. Welding is a fabrication or sculptural process that joins materials, usually metals or thermoplastics, by causing fusion, which is distinct from lower temperature metal-joining techniques such as brazing and soldering, which do not melt the base metal.
Metal Inert Gas (MIG) welding, also sometimes called Gas Metal Arc Welding (GMAW) is a process that was developed in the 1940s for welding aluminum and other non-ferrous metals. Metal inert gas welding, also called gas metal arc welding, allows for the relatively quick bonding of metal pieces. MIG welding is done to join two pieces of aluminum or
The major difference between Mig and Tig welding is that one process uses a continuously feeding wire (MIG) and the other you use long welding rods and slowly feed them into the weld puddle (TIG). MIG and TIG welding both use an electric arc to make the weld. MIG welding is a very simple and easy process to learn compared to learning how to TIG weld. The technical names for these are metal inert gas (MIG), and tungsten inert gas (TIG). A MIG welder works by using a continuously feeding spool of welding wire that burns, melts and fuses both the base and parent metals together. You can weld a variety of materials such as mild steel, stainless steel and aluminum. The main difference between MIG and TIG welding is that one method uses a continuously feeding electrode and is a very fast way of putting down welds. The other way is a much more fine and delicate welding technique. The most versatile machine is the TIG welder as you can weld many different types of metals
Gas metal arc welding (GMAW), sometimes referred to by its subtypes metal inert gas (MIG) welding or metal active gas (MAG) welding, is a welding process in which an electric arc forms between a consumable wire electrode and the workpiece metal(s), which heats the workpiece metal(s), causing them to melt, and join. 
Gas metal arc welding (GMAW), also known as metal inert gas or MIG welding, is a semi-automatic or automatic process that uses a continuous wire feed as an electrode and an inert or semi-inert gas mixture to protect the weld from contamination. Welding is a fabrication or sculptural process that joins materials, usually metals or thermoplastics, by causing fusion, which is distinct from lower temperature metal-joining techniques such as brazing and soldering, which do not melt the base metal.
1 Gas metal arc welding (GMAW) - commonly termed MIG (metal, inert gas), uses a wire feeding gun that feeds wire at an adjustable speed and flows an argon-based shielding gas or a mix of argon and carbon dioxide (CO 2) over the weld puddle to protect it from atmospheric contamination. Welding is a fabrication or sculptural process that joins materials, usually metals or thermoplastics, by causing fusion, which is distinct from lower temperature metal-joining techniques such as brazing and soldering, which do not melt the base metal.