The wet, acidic and low-nutrient environment in peat bogs foster plant and animal communities highly adapted to these conditions, including insectivorous plants such as sundews, Venus fly-trap, pitcher plants and Oregon's cobra plants, also known as Darlingtonia. While the peat industry argues that peatlands can be managed at sustainable levels, it recognizes that alternatives to peat must be developed in order to meet environmental concerns of consumers and contend with increased regulation of peatland exploitation.
Ponds in this restored bog are essential to the development of peat. (Photo courtesy of Canadian Sphagnum Peat Moss Association). Nothing is as simple as it seems. Case in point: peat makes a great growing medium that many gardeners rely on for everything from seed starting to amending garden soil. (Photo courtesy of Canadian Sphagnum Peat Moss Association). Peat is renewable and will regrow if harvested in moderation. But as with many natural resources, peat collection is often done exhaustively. Drainage ditches are cut around the peatlands.
CORVALLIS, Ore. – Generations of gardeners have recognized the benefits of adding peat moss to garden and potting soil. Although it has little nutrient value, it's a good soil amendment. It lightens the soil, allows air to enter, holds moisture without being soggy and generally improves soil structure. While the peat industry argues that peatlands can be managed at sustainable levels, it recognizes that alternatives to peat must be developed in order to meet environmental concerns of consumers and contend with increased regulation of peatland exploitation.
Peat moss can improve soil quality and increase fruit and vegetable yields. Peat moss is an old stand-by in the garden. The fluffy material has been favored as an organic soil amendment for many decades. There are, however, some peat moss naysayers. The truth is, if you want to use peat moss in the vegetable garden, there are a few factors to take into consideration. Since peat moss offers no plant nutrients, you might turn garden compost or well-rotted manure into the soil alongside the peat moss. When combining organic materials in this way, maintain the ratio of 2 parts existing soil to 1 part new amendments.
Two very different views on the ethics of using peat moss: one from garden writer Jeff Ball via Garden Rant, Here are the simple facts. Canada has over 270 million acres of peat bogs which produce peat moss. Each year the peat moss industry harvests only 40,000 acres of peat moss mostly for horticultural use. If you do the math that comes to one of every 6,000 acres of peat moss is harvested each year. And here is the cherry on top. 
Supplier of high quality Baltic sphagnum peat moss soil and substrates. We provide the best material for horticultural companies, gardeners, landscapers, hobby sector, etc. Also we are supplying peat moss for sustainable energy production purposes: heat and electricity generation. The climatic and geologic conditions in the Baltic States are favourable for the processes of peat creation, thus procuring the region with vast resources of high quality peat. 
If properly managed, peat moss can be a renewable resource Sphagnum peat moss is a valuable, well-known, natural, organic resource that is predominately harvested for use as a soil conditioner or amendment by farmers, landscapers and gardeners. It is often referred to as the universal soil conditioner for its benefits to the soil. Prairie farmers in Canada use it extensively. If properly managed, peat moss can be a renewable resource. If properly managed, peat moss can be a renewable resource. Sphagnum peat moss is a valuable, well-known, natural, organic resource that is predominately harvested for use as a soil conditioner or amendment by farmers, landscapers and gardeners.
We can relax. Fortunately, 95 percent of the sphagnum peat moss available in the United States comes from the Canadian Sphagnum Peat Moss Association (CSPMA). This organization emphasizes sustainable harvesting practices and restoration efforts. (Photo courtesy of Canadian Sphagnum Peat Moss Association). Peat is renewable and will regrow if harvested in moderation. But as with many natural resources, peat collection is often done exhaustively. Drainage ditches are cut around the peatlands.