Cetol SRD is a translucent exterior stain specially formulated to provide a water repellent finish for many demanding areas of the home. Cetol SRD is an easy to use effective coating for all outdoor wooden surfaces. Cetol 23 RE offers a greater degree of protection from the harmful effects of ultraviolet light in areas of high elevation or intense sunlight. The secret is an unprecedented use of two UV-absorbing materials, widely dispersed and permanently fixed into the surface film.
Sikkens Cetol Marine is the original durable satin, translucent protective wood finish for use above the waterline on interior and exterior woods. Sikkens Cetol Marine is formulated with a special alkyd resin and high quality synthetic UV-absorbing pigments to shield wood from damaging UV rays. When dry, the finish has an attractive dark amber appearance on wood. Other Cetol Marine products: Cetol Marine Light, Cetol Marine Gloss, and Cetol Marine Natural Teak.
CETOL 1. Cetol 1 is a premium, translucnet exterior wood basecoat to be used with Cetol 23 Plus. Its superior aklyd formulation offers excellent penetration and adhesion to vertical wood surfaces. Premium translucent exterior wood basecoat to be used with Cetol 23 Plus. Can also be used alone or with other products.
Sikkens Cetol Marine Natural Teak is a durable satin, translucent protective wood finish for use above the waterline on interior and exterior woods. Cetol Marine Natural Teak provides a flexible breathable finish along with weather protection for teak and other hard woods. Go for Two! Cetol Marine Natural Teak is formulated with the same ease of application and maintenance that all Cetol Marine products are known for but with Next Wave UV-absorbing technology, which is a formulation of specialty resins and advanced UV absorbers that provide greater protection, durability and longevity.
Cetol 1 RE is a translucent exterior wood finish that separates wood from the elements with a durable surface barrier, which repels water, while allowing excess moisture to escape. It penetrates deep into the wood sealing and protecting it. Cetol 23 RE offers a greater degree of protection from the harmful effects of ultraviolet light in areas of high elevation or intense sunlight. The secret is an unprecedented use of two UV-absorbing materials, widely dispersed and permanently fixed into the surface film.
CETOL 6σ tolerance analysis software provides product development teams with the insight required to confidently release designs to manufacturing. Precise calculation of surface sensitivities exposes the critical-to-quality dimensions in the assembly. CETOL 6σ Dimensional Tolerance Calculations & Reporting: Standardized reporting for multiple industries depending on variation analysis with accuracy.