If you are sectioned, i believe that you must stay a minimum of 28 days. Another View: If you are committed by court order it can be for as long as the court's order states. If you are committed involuntarily (by emergency commitment order), it will usually be for no more than 72 hours observation before the institution will have to render their evaluation of your danger to yourself and/or others.
If you are in the hospital for any length of time, ask hospital personnel what your status is. Keep asking because it can be changed from day to day. If you are told you are in the hospital under observation status, you can ask the hospital doctor to be admitted as an inpatient. A number of Medicare beneficiaries are spending days in the hospital before being transferred to a nursing home, only to find that Medicare won't pay for their nursing home stay because they were considered to be under  observation  while in the hospital and not actually admitted..
If she refuses to commit herself, AND she is a danger to herself or others, they will hold her until they get a court order to keep her for as long as the judge deems appropriate. It's always better to self-commit. Chances are you'll be out in 72 hours. Source(s): Been hospitalized 5 times. 
Hospital midwife. If you have a straightforward vaginal birth, you and your baby could be at home within hours. If you have a caesarean, you can normally expect to stay in hospital for three days to four days. A longer stay is only necessary if you, or your baby, are unwell. If you have had a caesarean, it is possible to go home as soon as 24 hours to 48 hours after the birth if you really want to, provided you are well enough. However, it is more likely that you'll stay in for a few days. After a caesarean, your midwife will want to be sure you can:
But planning for a hospital stay can lead to better care and a faster recovery. In fact, your involvement is critical. That's because you—or a designated friend or family member—are often the best defense against drug mix-ups, hospital-acquired infections, surgical mistakes, and other errors or adverse events. 
This happened to me plenty of times. I am not sure how long they can legally hold you. there is no limit that I know of. If she has only been in the psych ward for 18 hours, then that is why. They will at least keep her 24 hours to stabilize the meds and stuff. They will only release her when they feel that she is stable. I am asking how long they legally can hold her for my info only. Also she has been held for 80hours, 62 at the hospital and 28 at the psych ward. Update 2: Excuse me....80 hours total....62 at the hospital, 18 in the ward.
They do not have to stay for 2 years, as someone else answered. They are put on a 72 hour hold, but after that, to my knowledge, if the patient is 18 years old they can leave when they want, or admit themselves if they so choose. As for children, if the mother will be somewhere for only a couple of days, then she should decide who would take care of her kids. Hiya, I am not sure if you are in the US or UK. But in the UK, I think they determine the length of time someone should stay in hospital after a suicide attempt is the risk factor they present to themselves or others (whether they are likely to try to harm themselves again).