A lymph node is an oval-shaped organ of the lymphatic system, distributed widely throughout the body including the armpit and stomach and linked by lymphatic vessels. Lymph nodes are major sites of B, T, and other immune cells. Lymph nodes are important for the proper functioning of the immune system, acting as filters for foreign particles and cancer cells. Lymph nodes do not deal with toxicity, which is primarily dealt with by the liver and kidneys. Lymph nodes are bean or oval shaped and range in size from a few millimeters to about 1–2 cm long. Each lymph node is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, and inside the lymph node the fibrous capsule extends to form trabeculae. The substance of the lymph node is divided into the outer cortex and the inner medulla.
The cervical lymph nodes are glands in the human lymphatic system, which is a complicated series of vessels and passageways that bring specialized fluid to the heart and most major organs. The cervical system is located in the neck and is present in people of both genders, adults and children alike. Lymphoma. Lymphoma is a type of cancer that affects the lymphatic system. One of the first symptoms is swollen armpit, groin, or cervical lymph nodes. Lymphoma falls into two general categories: Hodgkin's disease and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Structure [edit]. There are approximately 300 lymph nodes in the neck, and they can be classified in many different ways. Commonly used systems have been devised by the American Academy of Otolaryngology and the American Joint Committee on Cancer. One system divides the nodes as follows: 1  Level I: Submental and submandibular nodes. The characterization of neoplastic lymph nodes on CT, MRI or ultrasound is difficult, and usually requires confirmation by further imaging such as PET scans, and ultimately tissue diagnosis by fine needle aspiration, core biopsy, or surgical excision.
Posterior lymph nodes are located along the back of the neck. Deep cervical lymph nodes are associated with their positions adjacent to the internal jugular vein, which runs near the sides of the neck. They are known as the lateral jugular, anterior jugular, and jugulo-digastric lymph nodes. The inferior deep cervical lymph nodes, the juguloomohyoid nodes, and the supraclavicular, or scalene, nodes are considered deep jugular nodes. There are some 600 to 700 lymph nodes scattered throughout the body. Cervical lymph nodes are located in the neck region. There are two general categories of cervical lymph nodes: anterior and posterior.
Lymph nodes often swell in one location when a problem such as an injury, infection, or tumor develops in or near the lymph node. Which lymph nodes are swollen can help identify the problem. 1  The glands on either side of the neck, under the jaw, or behind the ears commonly swell when you have a cold or sore throat. 
Cancer that starts in the cervix can spread to lymph nodes in the pelvis (lymph nodes are pea-sized collections of immune system tissue). To check for lymph node spread, the surgeon might remove some of these lymph nodes. This procedure is known as a lymph node dissection or lymph node sampling. 
For lymph nodes near the cervix, see external iliac lymph nodes and inguinal lymph nodes. The characterization of neoplastic lymph nodes on CT, MRI or ultrasound is difficult, and usually requires confirmation by further imaging such as PET scans, and ultimately tissue diagnosis by fine needle aspiration, core biopsy, or surgical excision.
The cervical lymph nodes are some of the best known nodes of the lymphatic system in part because of their role in disease detection. When the body is fighting some sort of major infection, all or at least many of the lymph nodes may swell. Lymphoma. Lymphoma is a type of cancer that affects the lymphatic system. One of the first symptoms is swollen armpit, groin, or cervical lymph nodes. Lymphoma falls into two general categories: Hodgkin's disease and Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Examine groups of cervical nodes systemically. Knowledge of grouping and location of cervical lymph nodes is necessary. 1  For palpation of preauricular nodes, roll your finger in front of the ear, against the maxilla. 2  Sub occipital lymph nodes are palpable immediately behind the ear. 3  Posterior cervical nodes are behind sternomastoid and in front of Trapezius.
Lymph nodes in the neck have been divided into seven levels, generally for the purpose of squamous cell carcinoma staging. This system is not inclusive of several important groups, however, such as the supraclavicular, parotid and retropharyngeal space nodes. 