Jocelyn is a surname and first name. It is a unisex (male/female) name. Variants include Jocilyn, Joscelyn, Joscelin, Josceline, Joseline, Jocelin, Jocelyne, Jocelynne, Jocelynn, Joslin, Joslyn, Joclyn, Joselyn, Joselyne and Josslyn; people that have this name may find it is often misspelled by others. 
Meaning of Jocelyn. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Jocelyn means-Supplanter.. Other origins for the name Jocelyn include-Hebrew, Latin-American, English, German, French, French, German.The name Jocelyn is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Supplanter
French Meaning: The name Jocelyn is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Jocelyn is: Medieval male name adopted as a feminine name. German Meaning: The name Jocelyn is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Jocelyn is: One of the Goths. Introduced into Britam as a masculine name during the Norman Conquest, Jocelyn was adopted as a feminine first name in the early 20th century.
See also the related forms, the English Joyce and the English and German Lynn. Jocelyn is popular as a baby girl name. The name has been growing in popularity since the 1940s. Its usage peaked modestly in 2007 with 0.251% of baby girls being named Jocelyn. It had a ranking of #50 then. In 2012, it ranked at #92 with a usage of 0.167%, and it was the most popular among all girl names in its family. Jocelyn's language of origin is Breton. It is derived from the word iodoc with the meaning 'lord'. An older form of the name is Iodoc (Breton). Jocelyn's origin is English. The name can be taken as a modern combination of Joyce and Lynn.
Jocelyn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Jo-ce-lyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 114 in baby name popularity for girls with 2744 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Just for fun, see the name Jocelyn in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Jocelyn in Nautical Flags page.
What does Jocelyn mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Jocelyn is of German origin. The meaning of Jocelyn is member of the gaut tribe. It is also of Latin origin, where its meaning is cheerful. Just for fun, see the name Jocelyn in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Jocelyn in Nautical Flags page.
Jocelyn. Jocelyn /jo-ce-lyn/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JOSS-lin, JOSS-sa-lyn. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Jocelyn is a member of the German tribe, the Gauts. From an Old French masculine name brought to Britain by the Normans in the form Joscelin, which was from Gautzelin, a pet name for a member of a Germanic tribe, the Gauts, who may have been the same as the Goths. Jocelyn is a very popular first name for women (#613 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#40265 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Jocelyn for girls.
The name may have been associated with pet forms of the name Josse, which was the French form of Judoc or Jodoc, probably from Celtic jud meaning chief or lord. Josse or Jodoc was the name of a popular saint. Jocelyn was revived in the 19th century and adopted as a feminine name, perhaps because it could be associated with names like Joyce (which also derives from Josse) combined with the-lyn ending. Cellist Jocelyn DuPr. Kreatif forms: Jecelyn, Jucelyn. Jocelyn is a very popular first name for women (#613 out of 4276, Top 14%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#40265 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Jocelyn for girls.
The different meanings of the name Jocelyn are: The meaning of the name “Jocelyn” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Popularity of the Name Jocelyn. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Jocelyn displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if