1 Place the meat in the oven and cook for 20 to 30 minutes at the high temperature. 2  Then lower the temperature to between 275°F and 325°F and roast until done (see doneness guidelines below). 1 An electronic meat thermometer can be programmed to beep when the meat hits the target temperature. 2  Beef and lamb are medium rare when the internal temperature of the roast has reached 135°F; medium is 140°-145°F. Pork should be cooked to 145°F. 3  Veal is usually served medium (145°-150°F) or medium-well (155°F).
Plan your day ... not need your oven for anything else. ... to roast the beef in the A.M. ... stand at room temperature for 1 hour ... medium rare/medium when done. Place a good-sized ... in 350 degree oven for 3 hours. ... cool to room temperature before slicing. The ... on the bias. Beef brisket should be ...
Start at 2:00 p.m. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. ... in oven and cook 1 hour. Turn ... 300 degrees. The temperatures given are for sea level cooking. For high ... way, the roast beef will be a ... and perfect every time. 6
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast. Remove the meat from the oven when it reaches 5° to 10°F below the desired doneness; the temperature will continue to rise as the meat stands. Remember, use the roast cook times in this chart as a guide only.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Add beef stock and enough water to yield about 1/2 inch of liquid in the roasting pan. Lower oven to 300 degrees F, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain. Top with juice from the pan. 
Note: Start with meat at refrigerated temperature. Remove the meat from the oven when it reaches 5° to 10°F below the desired doneness; the temperature will continue to rise as the meat stands. Remember, use the roast cook times in this chart as a guide only.
RecipeTips. The proper beef cooking times and the correct beef cooking temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various cuts of beef can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef. Fork Tender. Oven Bag Instructions: Preheat the oven to 325 ° F. Add 1 tablespoon flour to the oven bag and distribute evenly on the inside of the bag prior to inserting the beef. Remove the meat from the oven when the meat thermometer reaches the temperature listed or when the meat is fork tender.
Low-temperature cooking is a cooking technique using temperatures of 45 to 85 °C (113 to 185 °F) for a prolonged time to cook food. Low-temperature cooking methods include sous vide cooking, slow cooking using a slow cooker, cooking in a normal oven which has a minimal setting of 70 °C (158 °F), and using a combi steamer providing exact temperature control.
1 If you are using a meat thermometer (analog or digital), insert the probe into the center of the roast, being careful not to hit bone. 2  Place the meat in the oven and cook for 20 to 30 minutes at the high temperature. 1 An electronic meat thermometer can be programmed to beep when the meat hits the target temperature. 2  Beef and lamb are medium rare when the internal temperature of the roast has reached 135°F; medium is 140°-145°F. Pork should be cooked to 145°F. 3  Veal is usually served medium (145°-150°F) or medium-well (155°F).
The proper beef roast cook times and the correct beef cooking oven temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various beef roasts can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef roasts. Remove the meat from the oven when it reaches 5° to 10°F below the desired doneness; the temperature will continue to rise as the meat stands. Remember, use the roast cook times in this chart as a guide only.