Examples include autocrine, where the cell signals to itself, and paracrine, where a cell signals to a nearby neighbour. However, when cells need to communicate a message over a long distance, they can use the endocrine system. Endocrine signalling uses chemicals called hormones to send messages throughout the body.
Glucagon secretion increases when blood sugar levels are diminished, countering insulin's effects upon glucose and fat metabolism. One might expect that glucagon would have a negative paracrine action on-cells, but that is NOT the case.
Paracrine, autocrine and synaptic signals: The local targeters. Paracrine, autocrine and synaptic are three types of local hormone signaling. In paracrine signaling, hormones are released into the fluid between cells (the interstitial fluid) and diffuse to nearby target cells.
The pancreatic islet secretes the hormones insulin and glucagon to regulate glucose metabolism. To generate an adequate secretory response, islet endocrine cells must receive multiple regulatory signals relaying information about changes in the internal and external environments.
The panoply of candidates for paracrine and autocrine interactions. The list of putative paracrine and autocrine signals in pancreatic islets keeps growing. Although not discussed here, the hormones glucagon, insulin, and somatostatin also serve as local signaling molecules.
The main regulator of insulin secretion is the plasma glucose concentration. Insulin secretion is modified by other nutrients, circulating hormones and the autonomic nervous system, as well as local paracrine and autocrine signals. Autocrine signalling involves diffusible molecules that bind to receptors on the same cell from which they have been released.
No signaling molecule is inherently a paracrine signal. The same hormone or neurotransmitter can be used in multiple contexts such as endocrine, paracrine, autocrine, or synaptic signaling. It is therefore crucial to establish criteria for a molecule to be considered