The reason why nitrogen gas is inert at room temperature is because the triple bond between the two nitrogen atoms in each nitrogen molecule (N2) is very strong, and therefore … it takes a lot of energy to break that bond, and until that bond is broken, the nitrogen cannot react with any other chemical. Only the noble gases (8A) are truly inert, though they are rare. Nitrogen is a diatomic in natural state, meaning that two nitrogen atoms are stuck together.
Nitrogen gas has become the inert gas of choice for inert gas asphyxiation, and is under consideration as a replacement for lethal injection in Oklahoma. Nitrogen is promoted by euthanasia advocate Philip Nitschke to end life in a peaceful, reliable [and] totally legal manner. Nitrogen gas has a variety of applications, including serving as an inert replacement for air where oxidation is undesirable; 1  As a modified atmosphere, pure or mixed with carbon dioxide, to nitrogenate and preserve the freshness of packaged or bulk foods (by delaying rancidity and other forms of oxidative damage).
A colorless, odorless gas, Nitrogen is a non-hydrocarbon inert gas used for a variety of functions in the drilling, workover and completion phases of oil and gas wells, as well as in pigging and purging pipelines. 
Nitrogen isn't inert, it will react with other substances but, in industry, pipelines, vessels, towers and other equipment are purged with nitrogen to remove flammable and noxious gases to a flare system before admitting air, to allow entry for maintenance purposes. The process is called 'Inerting'. 
I have read that inert gases are the same thing as noble gases, and I know that noble gases are very un-reactive elements that have their outer octet filled. But I have also heard that nitrogen is an inert gas, which I assume means that it is a noble gas, but this doesn't make sense because... But I have also heard that nitrogen is an inert gas, which I assume means that it is a noble gas, but this doesn't make sense because nitrogen is reactive and does not have its outer octet filled. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
I have read that inert gases are the same thing as noble gases, and I know that noble gases are very un-reactive elements that have their outer octet filled. But I have also heard that nitrogen is an inert gas, which I assume means that it is a noble gas, but this doesn't make sense because nitrogen is reactive and... But I have also heard that nitrogen is an inert gas, which I assume means that it is a noble gas, but this doesn't make sense because nitrogen is reactive and does not have its outer octet filled. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
Nitrogen is a chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7. It is the lightest pnictogen and at room temperature, it is a transparent, odorless diatomic gas. Nitrogen is a common element in the universe, estimated at about seventh in total abundance in the Milky Way and the Solar System. Nitrogen gas has a variety of applications, including serving as an inert replacement for air where oxidation is undesirable; 1  As a modified atmosphere, pure or mixed with carbon dioxide, to nitrogenate and preserve the freshness of packaged or bulk foods (by delaying rancidity and other forms of oxidative damage).