One example of a name that indicates cannabis plants that are not of this higher potency would be “hemp” while these names refer to the better, consumable marijuana: 1  pot. 2  weed. 3  marijuana. 4  grass. 5  mary jane. 6  reefer. 7  ganja. There are other types of weed names that refer just to usable marijuana in general. These names aren’t necessarily going to indicate the relative quality of the weed, but typically do imply that it is of a grade that is high enough to be considered of recreational or medicinal quality.
To help you gain insight into your child’s relationship with Marijuana, we’ve compiled a list of common street names and nicknames for Marijuana and partying. drug cocktails, pure forms of the drugs, and using drugs during a negative point in your life (Caused by stress, anxiety, etc.). “Marijuana is not addictive” FALSE. Marijuana is, in fact, more addictive than many other common drugs (Alcohol, Tobacco). Any drug can be abused and can be the cause of addiction. Marijuana contains more cancer-causing chemicals than tobacco and is more mind-altering than alcohol
This plant is listed by the U.S. federal government or a state. Common names are from state and federal lists. Click on a place name to get a complete noxious weed list for that location, or click here for a composite list of all Federal and State Noxious Weeds. 
The color of marijuana varies, but the most common colors are green and brown. 2. What are the common names for marijuana? Some of common street terms for marijuana and/or THC include: aunt mary, boom, chronic, dope ganja, gangster, grass, hash, herb, kif, mary jane, pot, reefer, sinsemilla, skunk, and weed. The intensity of the effects is greatly influenced by the potency of the marijuana. Common immediate effects include: 1  Relaxation and giddiness. 2  Euphoria, paranoia and anxiety. 3  Increased hunger, dry mouth, and blood-shot eyes. 4  Memory and perceptions may be impair
Just like all plants, marijuana comes in a variety of types, and each of these types has its own street name. Most of these terms are derived from their geographical region of origin. Some of the most popular include: 1  Acapulco Gold or just Gold. 2  Texas Tea. 3  Sinsemilla or just Sins. 4  Panama Gold or Panama Red. 5  Colombo. 6  Chronic. 
However, marijuana use can affect one’s perception and judgment. It can also cause social problems. Because of its popularity, marijuana has many nicknames and street names. In fact, there is probably not another drug with more alternate names than marijuana. Marijuana has been used by various cultures for hundreds of years.
Below are pictures of some of the most popular strains or types of marijuana, followed by an A-Z of strains. Choosing types of marijuana for a garden will depend on many factors, not least what you expect of the end product. Marijuana strains are often a cross of Sativa and Indica to give properties of each i.e. to make certain Sativa smaller and more potent, or an Indica larger and with bigger buds.
Herb. Boom. Blubbers. Gangster. Cannabis has many popular 'street names' including Pot, Weed, Grass or Ganja. Facebook Twitter Stumbleupon Linkedin Google+ Pinterest Add Favorite. 