Like the red and white blood cells, platelets are produced in bone marrow from stem cells. Plasma. Plasma is the relatively clear, yellow tinted water (92+%), sugar, fat, protein and salt solution which carries the red cells, white cells, and platelets. Normally, 55% of our blood's volume is made up of plasma.
The blood also carries away waste products. The adult human body contains approximately 5 liters (5.3 quarts) of blood; it makes up 7 to 8 percent of a person's body weight. Approximately 2.75 to 3 liters of blood is plasma and the rest is the cellular portion.
Whole blood makes up about 7% of a person's body weight and consists primarily of red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets and plasma. The average human adult has about 1 &dash; 1½ gallons of blood traveling through their circulatory system.
White cells, or leukocytes, exist in variable numbers and types but make up a very small part of blood's volume--normally only about 1% in healthy people. Leukocytes are not limited to blood. They occur elsewhere in the body as well, most notably in the spleen, liver, and lymph glands.
More specifically, Human blood has about 45% blood cells and 55 percent plasma. The blood cells contain erythrocytes(red blood cells) and leukocytes(white blood cells), but it's mostly red blood cells. The plasma part has 90% water, and 10% protein, gases, waste, and enzymes.
Red cells normally make up 40-50% of the total blood volume. They transport oxygen from the lungs to all of the living tissues of the body and carry away carbon dioxide. The red cells are produced continuously in our bone marrow from stem cells at a rate of about 2-3 million cells per second.
Human blood is made of plasma (makes up 54.3% of the blood volume) and several kinds of cells (corpuscles); these are 1  –. erythrocytes (RBC) – 45% of blood by volume. 2  leukocytes (WBC) – 0.7% of blood by volume. 3  thrombocytes (platelets) – minute amounts.
Normally, 7-8% of human body weight is from blood. In adults, this amounts to 4.5-6 quarts of blood. This essential fluid carries out the critical functions of transporting oxygen and nutrients to our cells and getting rid of carbon dioxide, ammonia, and other waste products.