March 23, 2015 – by admin 0. Yellow Sapphire Pukhraj Stone Price –. Yellow sapphire cost every carat relies on Weight (carats/ratti), Treatments and Quality (Cut, Clarity and Color). Characteristic Yellow Sapphire cost in India is between rupees 1300 every carat to rupees 2, 00,000 every carat or more.
1 Natural Yellow Sapphire price in India is between rupees 1300 per carat to rupees 2, 00,000 per carat and above. 2  For Astrological purpose, Pukhraj stone price above Rs 26,000 per carat doesn't make much sense to purchase, as those are almost collector level or rare pieces.
Pukhraj Stone Price In Delhi. Yellow Sapphire is essentially a mineral, and contains the compounds of aluminium, hydrosil, and florine in it. Yellow Sapphire or Pukhraj can be pre-dominantly found in Australia, Brazil, Burma, Cambodia, East Africa, Sri Lanka, India, Thailand, Russia and the United States.
1 Pukhraj Stone price in Delhi is competitive, and so are some Online Yellow Sapphire dealers. 2  However, most gemstone dealers sell heated and treated Yellow Sapphires thereby not making you get your money's worth. 3  So do ensure that you get a trusted lab certification mentioning tests for treatment.
1 1600 per carat to Rs. 26, 000 per carat depending upon quality. 2  Pukhraj Stone price in Delhi is competitive, and so are some Online Yellow Sapphire dealers. 3  However, most gemstone dealers sell heated and treated Yellow Sapphires thereby not making you get your money's worth.
1600 every carat to Rs. 26, 000 every carat relying on quality. Pukhraj Stone cost in Delhi is focused, thus are some Online Yellow Sapphire merchants. Notwithstanding, most gemstone merchants offer warmed and treated Yellow Sapphires in this manner not profiting worth.
Price of Pukhraj stone in Delhi also varies largely among the sellers. Many sellers might even try to deceive you showing you the glass imitation of yellow sapphire. A glass imitation of yellow sapphire is carved out from yellow glass, and brushed and polished to give it a finishing look of Pukhraj or yellow Sapphire.
1 Yellow Sapphire cost also depends on where you buy from. 2  For example, Ceylon Yellow Sapphire price in India is between Rs. 3  1600 per carat to Rs. 26, 000 per carat depending upon quality. 4  Pukhraj Stone price in Delhi is competitive, and so are some Online Yellow Sapphire dealers.