These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Titration is a method used commonly in chemistry laboratories and classrooms, which uses a solution of a known concentration to analyze and determine the unknown concentration of a second solution. A textbook setup for an acid-base titration involves the solution of known concentration, called the titrant, suspended in a buret above a flask containing the unknown solution, or titrand. The buret is a calibrated vertical tube with a stopcock at the bottom of it to regulate the flow of the titrant into the flask
What is a Titration. A titration is a technique where a solution of known concentration is used to determine the concentration of an unknown solution. Typically, the titrant (the know solution) is added from a buret to a known quantity of the analyte (the unknown solution) until the reaction is complete. 
Titration, also known as titrimetry, is a common laboratory method of quantitative chemical analysis that is used to determine the unknown concentration of an identified analyte. Since volume measurements play a key role in titration, it is also known as volumetric analysis. A reagent, called the titrant or titrator is prepared as a standard solution. A known concentration and volume of titrant reacts with a solution of analyte or titrand to determine concentration. An assay is a form of biological titration used to determine the concentration of a virus or bacterium. Serial dilutions are performed on a sample in a fixed ratio (such as 1:1, 1:2, 1:4, 1:8, etc.) until the last dilution does not give a positive test for the presence of the virus.
Titration is a procedure used in chemistry in order to determine the molarity of an acid or a base. A chemical reaction is set up between a known volume of a solution of unknown concentration and a known volume of a solution with a known concentration. When the solution of known concentration and the solution of unknown concentration are reacted to the point where the number of acid equivalents equals the number of base equivalents (or vice versa), the equivalence point is reached. The equivalence point of a strong acid or a strong base will occur at pH 7.
Typical Titration Apparatus. In a titration, a solution of unknown concentration is reacted with a solution of a known concentration in order to find out more about the unknown solution. Animated Acid-Base Titration. Two of the most common titrations are acid-base and redox titrations. In an acid-base titration one of the solutions is an acid and the other a base.
Titration Definition: Titration is the process in which one solution is added to another solution such that it reacts under conditions in which the added volume may be accurately measured. Titrations are most commonly associated with acid-base reaction, but they may involve other types of reactions as well. 
Titration is a laboratory method used to determine the unknown concentration of a reactant. This is a delicate procedure that requires patience and a good observation skills. Usually, an indicator is used in titration to determine the endpoint of the reaction. Once the endpoint volume is found, mathematics can be used to determine the concentration of the unknown. This procedure is commonly used in the field of analytical chemistry
A titration is a method of analysis that will allow you to determine the precise endpoint of a reaction and therefore the precise quantity of reactant in the titration flask. A buret is used to deliver the second reactant to the flask and an indicator or pH Meter is used to detect the endpoint of the reaction. 
The Titration Experiment. Titration is a general class of experiment where a known property of one solution is used to infer an unknown property of another solution. In acid-base chemistry, we often use titration to determine the pH of a certain solution. A setup for the titration of an acid with a base is shown in : Figure %: A titration setup. We use this instrumentation to calculate the amount of unknown acid in the receiving flask by measuring the amount of base, or titrant, it takes to neutralize the acid.