Hopefully you've been convinced that a high protein intake is not evil.. Protein intake ranging from 1.4 grams of protein per kilogram of bodyweight to one gram per pound or more can be beneficial for an individual involved in an intense training program. Recent research shows that the RDA doesn't appear to meet the needs of exercising adults. One of the top researchers in this field, Dr Peter Lemon, stated in a recent review paper that, the RDA for those engaged in strength training should be about 1.7 - 1.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass per day.
This is just what I consider to be a good minimum daily protein intake for general health/function. 0.5-0.7 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Average healthy adult (male or female) that IS doing some form of exercise regularly or IS trying to improve their body (lose fat, build muscle, etc.). This is the minimum I’d recommend in this case. 0.8-1 grams of protein per pound of body weight. 1 Now let’s say a 180lb man wanted to build muscle, or maintain muscle while losing fat, or improve strength/performance. 2  He’d do 180 x 1-1.5 and get a daily protein intake of between 180-270 grams per day.
1 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight (2.2 g/kg of BW) per day has been a bodybuilding rule of thumb for decades. 2  Higher levels of protein intake, usually in the range of 1.2 – 1.5 grams per pound of body weight (2.6 – 3.3 g/kg BW) per day, are commonly recommended when “cutting” to lose fat. 2. Consume seven meals per day, but only consume protein sources (meat, whey, etc.) at four or five of them – 130 -150g protein per day. 3. Change my eating habits to consume four or five meals per day so I can keep my protein around 130 – 150g per day. Thank you so much.
Men who work out 5 or more days a week for an hour or longer need 0.55 gram per pound. And men who work out 3 to 5 days a week for 45 minutes to an hour need 0.45 gram per pound. So a 180-pound guy who works out regularly needs about 80 grams of protein a day. Now, if you're trying to lose weight, protein is still crucial. The fewer calories you consume, the more calories should come from protein, says Layman. You need to boost your protein intake to between 0.45 and 0.68 gram per pound to preserve calorie-burning muscle mass. 
Rather, an exercising person should consume between 0.7 and 1.0 g of protein per pound of body weight daily. Serious strength training individuals, such as bodybuilders, should consume closer to the 1 g per pound of body weight recommendation, while endurance athletes should aim for the lower end of the ISSN range. 
So if you weigh 180lbs, consume 180g of protein per day. To build muscle consume 1g protein for every lb bodyweight eg 180lbs=180g protein Click To Tweet. Simple, but this formula doesn’t work well for those with more body fat. 
The current RDA for protein is 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight per day, or about 0.36 grams of protein per pound of body weight, according to the Institute of Medicine. Consuming the protein RDA can help maintain your lean muscle mass. Many people trying to gain weight prefer to gain lean muscle mass instead of body fat. Consuming plenty of protein is important to help maximize lean muscle mass gains. Increasing calorie intake and exercising are also important components of healthy weight gain.
For strength athletes, those numbers are even higher--generally between 0.7 and 0.8 grams of protein per pound of body weight, he says. If you've been shooting for a gram of protein per pound of body weight--or more--you're overdoing it. If your cache of carbs is low, your body will use protein as an alternate fuel source, and your muscles won't grow as much as they would if you were feeding them a cocktail of protein and carbs. As for the fat, it's vital for the production of muscle-building testosterone.
However, to build muscle and gain weight the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics recommends you consume 1.4 to 1.8 grams per kilogram, or about 0.64 to 0.82 grams of protein per pound of body weight each day. Many people trying to gain weight prefer to gain lean muscle mass instead of body fat. Consuming plenty of protein is important to help maximize lean muscle mass gains. Increasing calorie intake and exercising are also important components of healthy weight gain.
Well it seems they concluded that 0.36 grams per kilogram of lean bodyweight in protein is lost per day. With a safety margin in place, it has been bumped up to 0.45 grams per kilogram of lean bodyweight, and then bumped up again to approximately 0.75 grams per kilogram. Recent research shows that the RDA doesn't appear to meet the needs of exercising adults. One of the top researchers in this field, Dr Peter Lemon, stated in a recent review paper that, the RDA for those engaged in strength training should be about 1.7 - 1.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass per day.