The Southern African Development Community (SADC) is an inter-governmental organization headquartered in Gaborone, Botswana. Its goal is to further socio-economic cooperation and integration as well as political and security cooperation among 15 southern African states. It complements the role of the African Union. SADCC was transformed into SADC on 17 August 1992, with the adoption by the founding members of SADCC and newly independent Namibia of the Windhoek declaration and treaty establishing SADC. The 1992 SADC provided for both socio-economic cooperation and political and security cooperation.
The Southern African Development Community (SADC) is an inter-governmental organization headquartered in Gaborone, Botswana. Its goal is to further socio-economic cooperation and integration as well as political and security cooperation among 15 southern African states. It complements the role of the African Union. The leaders of the region’s majority-ruled countries; Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, Tanzania, Zambia, Swaziland, Lesotho, Malawi and the newly liberated Zimbabwe signed the SADCC Memorandum of Understanding in Zambia 1981 providing for the organisation’s institutions and rights and obligations.
Presidential spokesperson George Charamba said it was mandatory that the Sadc chairperson visits the headquarters for familiarization during his reign. “It’s a requirement that the chairperson of Sadc must visit the headquarters during the course of his tenure so he is fulfilling that,” he said. The visit comes hard on the heels of an Extraordinary Summit of the Heads of State and Government held in Harare last month. When he assumed office, President Mugabe assured the regional grouping that Zimbabwe would contribute significantly towards ensuring the region focused on interventions that had the greatest impact on the well being of Sadc citizens.
Dr Stergomena Lawrence Tax held consultations with the President of the African Development Bank (AfDB), Mr Akinwumi Adesina on 26 September 2015 in the margins of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, USA.... 35th Ordinary Summit of SADC Heads of State and Government SADC Day message and statements on the occasion the summit are now available under News & Events / Council and Summit. Information and Communication Technologies Information and Communication Technologies have the potential to transform Southern Africa, enabling stronger Regional Integration and Economic Development
The Sadc headquarters were inaugurated in 2010 by Heads of State and Government during a Summit held here. The Sadc Secretariat is the principal executive institution responsible for strategic planning, facilitation, co-ordination and management of the regional grouping’s programmes. When he assumed office, President Mugabe assured the regional grouping that Zimbabwe would contribute significantly towards ensuring the region focused on interventions that had the greatest impact on the well being of Sadc citizens.
The Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC) was the forerunner of the socio-economic cooperation leg of today's SADC. The adoption by nine majority-ruled southern African countries of the Lusaka declaration on 1 April 1980 paved the way for the formal establishment of SADCC in April 1980. SADCC was transformed into SADC on 17 August 1992, with the adoption by the founding members of SADCC and newly independent Namibia of the Windhoek declaration and treaty establishing SADC. The 1992 SADC provided for both socio-economic cooperation and political and security cooperation.
Mugabe jets in. Zimbabwean president, also chairperson of Southern African Development Community (SADC), Mr Robert Mugabe, will visit the SADC headquarters in Gaborone tomorrow (May 19). A press release from SADC stated that President Mugabe’s visit will, amongst other things, afford him a chance to interact with SADC staff in their working environment.
The founding Member States are: Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Swaziland, United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. SADCC was formed in Lusaka, Zambia on April 1, 1980, following the adoption of the Lusaka Declaration-Southern Africa: Towards Economic Liberation. 