French Renaissance. One of the first places that the Renaissance spread to was France. This was because France invaded Italy in the late 1400s and came into contact with Italian paintings and artistic philosophies. The King of France, Francis I, invited many Italian artists to move to France including Leonardo da Vinci. The center of the European Renaissance movement was in Italy. Over time, however, the ideas and influence of the Italian Renaissance spread to other areas of Europe. The Northern Renaissance refers to Renaissance art, architecture, and philosophy that took place outside of Italy.
Introduction. There are several reasons why the Renaissance came later to Northern Europe. First, it was further removed from the centers of trade and culture in the Mediterranean. As a result, towns, trade, and the more progressive ideas that tend to come with wealth developed more slowly in the north. 
The Renaissance began in Northern Italy because prosperous city-states had arrisen there as a result of the takeover of the mediteranean trade by those cities from the muslims … , which in turn was a result of the crusades. + 23 others found this useful. 1 Famous Painters of Northern Renaissance Art The Renaissance started in Italy in the late 14th century and spread to other regions of Europe. 2  Northern Renaissance is the cultural movement that took place in Northern Eur…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.
The Power of Money. It was in a handful of Northern Italian city states that the renaissance emerged. It would eventually spread to northern Europe but it was in Italy that the rebirth truly began. 
Northern Renaissance. The Northern Renaissance started latter than the Italian Renaissance, and it is not until the second half of the 15th Century that the spirit of classical revival began to take hold upon Germany, France, and England. Albrecht D rer -. Erasmus of Rotterdam. National Gallery of Art, Washington. A difference between the Northern Renaissance and the Italian Renaissance was that, while in Italy the intellectual impulse came from above, in Germany the work began at the bottom. There was a slow build up of a system of elementary education, out of which leaders were to be developed.
The Northern Renaissance was the Renaissance that occurred in Europe north of the Alps. Before 1497, Italian Renaissance humanism had little influence outside Italy. From the late 15th century, its ideas spread around Europe. This influenced the German Renaissance, French Renaissance, English Renaissance, Renaissance in the Low Countries, Polish Renaissance and other national and localized movements, each with different characteristics and strengths. The Renaissance was brought to Poland directly from Italy by artists from Florence and the Low Countries, starting the Polish Renaissance. In some areas the Northern Renaissance was distinct from the Italian Renaissance in its centralization of political power.
Starting in the late 1400s, the Renaissance started spreading to countries like England, France, Germany, and Spain. When Northern merchants, diplomats, and soldiers began visiting the city-states of Italy, they were dazzled by the beauty of Italian art, architecture, and culture. 
Confidence votes 20. Note: == The Southern Renaissance, or Italian Renaissance, began in Florence, in the northern part if Italy. The Northern Renaissance began somewhere in Northern parts like Germany. The Renaissance began in Italy, specifically in the Italian cities  of Florence and Venice. Many of the innovations created during the  Renaissance were made in Italy, like … the artwork and scientific  work of Leonardo da Vinci or the paintings of Raphael and  Donatello. + 142 others found this useful.