The gluteus maximus muscle is located in the buttocks and is regarded as one of the strongest muscles in the human body. It is connected to the coccyx, or tailbone, as well as other surrounding bones. The gluteus maximus muscle is responsible for movement of the hip and thigh. Standing up from a sitting position, climbing stairs, and staying in an erect position are all aided by the gluteus maximus. Pain while rising to a standing position or lowering to sit may be caused by gluteus maximus syndrome. This syndrome is caused by a spasm in the muscle of the gluteus maximus. The pain usually disappears when sitting and affects only one side of the body.
The shape of muscle is dependent on its general architecture, which in turn helps to define the muscle’s function. Some muscles, such as the gluteal muscles, are quite thick; some, such as the sartorius, are long and relatively slender; and others, such as the extensors of the fingers, have very long tendons. The basic function of muscle is to generate force. Secondarily, muscles can provide some shape and form to the organism. Anatomically and functionally, muscle can be divided into two types, smooth and striated. Striated or striped muscle can be further divided into skeletal muscle and cardiac (heart) muscle
The fibers in a pinnate muscle are typically shorter than those of a fusiform muscle. The arrangement of pinnate muscle fibers can be single or double, as in muscles of the forearm, or multipinnate, as in the gluteus maximus or deltoid (figure 2.1). The basic function of muscle is to generate force. Secondarily, muscles can provide some shape and form to the organism. Anatomically and functionally, muscle can be divided into two types, smooth and striated. Striated or striped muscle can be further divided into skeletal muscle and cardiac (heart) muscle
Muscle fibers can be arranged into two basic structural patterns, fusiform and pinnate (also spelled pennate). Most human muscles are fusiform, with the fibers largely arranged in parallel arrays along the muscle’s longitudinal axis. The basic function of muscle is to generate force. Secondarily, muscles can provide some shape and form to the organism. Anatomically and functionally, muscle can be divided into two types, smooth and striated. Striated or striped muscle can be further divided into skeletal muscle and cardiac (heart) muscle
The gluteus maximus (also known collectively with the gluteus medius and minimus, as the gluteal muscles, and sometimes referred to informally as the 'glutes') is the largest and most superficial of the three gluteal muscles. It makes up a large portion of the shape and appearance of the hips. The gluteus maximus is involved in a number of sports, from running to weight-lifting. A number of exercises focus on the gluteus maximus as well as other muscles of the upper leg.
The gluteus maximus is a tensor of the fascia lata, and by its connection with the iliotibial band steadies the femur on the articular surfaces of the tibia during standing, when the extensor muscles are relaxed. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an adductor and external rotator of the limb. The gluteus maximus is involved in a number of sports, from running to weight-lifting. A number of exercises focus on the gluteus maximus as well as other muscles of the upper leg.
The gluteus minimus is the deepest and smallest of the superficial gluteal muscles. It is similar is shape and function to the gluteus medius. 1  Attachments: Originates from the ilium and converges to form a tendon, inserting to the anterior side of the greater trochanter. The deep gluteal muscles are a set of smaller muscles, located underneath the gluteus minimus. The general action of these muscles is to laterally rotate the lower limb. They also stablise the hip joint by ‘pulling’ the femoral head into the acetabulum of the pelvis.
The gluteus maximus is the largest of the gluteal muscles. It is also the most the most superficial, producing the shape of the buttocks. 1  Attachments: Originates from the gluteal (posterior) surface of the ilium, sacrum and coccyx. The deep gluteal muscles are a set of smaller muscles, located underneath the gluteus minimus. The general action of these muscles is to laterally rotate the lower limb. They also stablise the hip joint by ‘pulling’ the femoral head into the acetabulum of the pelvis.