Drop-down List. Drop-down lists in Excel are helpful if you want to be sure that users select an item from a list, instead of typing their own values. 1. On the second sheet, type the items you want to appear in the drop-down list. 2. On the first sheet, select cell B1. 3.
You can add the drop-down list to multiple cells. Select the range of data input cells (step 2) instead of a single cell. It even works for noncontiguous cells. Hold down the Shift key while you click the appropriate cells.
To add this drop-down list to a sheet, do the following: 1  Create the list in cells A1:A4. 2  Select cell E3. 3  Choose Validation from the Data menu. 4  Choose List from the Allow option's drop-down list. 5  Click the Source control and drag to highlight the cells A1:A4. 6  Make sure the In-Cell Dropdown option is checked. 7  Click OK.
To add this drop-down list to a sheet, do the following: 1  Create the list in cells A1:A4. 2  Similarly, you can enter the items in a single row, such as A1:D1. 3  Select cell E3. ( 4 You can position the drop-down list in most any cell or even multiple cells.). 5  Choose Validation from the Data menu.
Insert or delete a drop-down list. To make data entry easier in Excel, or to limit entries to certain items that you define, you can create a drop-down list of valid entries that is compiled from cells elsewhere in the workbook. When you create a drop-down list for a cell, it displays an arrow in that cell. To enter information in that cell, click the arrow, and then click the entry that you want. To create a drop-down list from a range of cells, use the Data Validation command in the Data Tools group on the Data tab. To create a list of valid entries for the drop-down list, type the entries in a single column or row without blank cells. For example:
Create a drop-down list. You can make a worksheet more efficient by providing drop-down lists. Someone using your worksheet clicks an arrow, and then clicks an entry in the list. On a new worksheet, type the entries that you want to appear in your