Reviewed by Sheena Meredith, MD. Nov. 3, 2014 -- A single blood test to detect cancer earlier is a step closer, scientists in the U.K. say, after they discovered more than 800 possible signs of cancer in the blood, called biomarkers, in people with cancer. 
Cancer screening aims to detect cancer before symptoms appear. This may involve blood tests, urine tests, other tests, or medical imaging. The benefits of screening in terms of cancer prevention, early detection and subsequent treatment must be weighed against any harms. 
Save as Favorite. Your doctor may order blood tests for cancer/tumor markers to detect cancer activity in the body. Proteins and circulating tumor cells are two types of markers that can be measured. A cancer tumor often produces a specific protein in the blood that serves as a marker for the cancer. Examples of markers your doctor may test for include: 1  CA 15.3: used to find breast and ovarian cancers. 2  TRU-QUANT and CA 27.29: may mean that breast cancer is present. 3  CA125: may signal ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer recurrence, and breast cancer recurrence.
AFP can be used to diagnose cancer in people who have a liver tumor larger than 2 cm. By testing for AFP, a liver biopsy can be avoided. AFP testing is not recommended for diagnosing liver masses smaller than 2 cm. Complete blood counts and blood smears are used to diagnose blood cancers, such as leukemia. Blood tests can screen for cancer in healthy people and can help diagnose cancer in those with disease symptoms. Blood tests can also be used to monitor a person's response to cancer treatments and detect tumor recurrence. Doctors look for the presence of cancer cells in the blood or tumor markers, which are substances made by a cancerous tumor
Testing for cancer may soon be as simple as a pinprick. Researchers in the United Kingdom say they are developing a universal blood test to detect cancer. So far, the team from the University of Bradford has tested their lymphocyte genome sensitivity test on patients with melanoma, lung cancer and colon cancer. 
While breast cancer blood marker tests are promising, they're not absolutely conclusive. When a breast cancer blood marker test comes back negative, it doesn't necessarily mean you're free and clear of breast cancer. And a positive result doesn't always mean that the cancer is growing. Examples of markers your doctor may test for include: 1  CA 15.3: used to find breast and ovarian cancers. 2  TRU-QUANT and CA 27.29: may mean that breast cancer is present. 3  CA125: may signal ovarian cancer, ovarian cancer recurrence, and breast cancer recurrence.
Blood tests can also give your doctor an idea of how well your organs are functioning and if they've been affected by cancer. Examples of blood tests used to diagnose cancer include: 1  Complete blood count (CBC). 2  This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 3  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 1 This common blood test measures the amount of various types of blood cells in a sample of your blood. 2  Blood cancers may be detected using this test if too many or too few of a type of blood cell or abnormal cells are found. 3  A bone marrow biopsy may help confirm a diagnosis of a blood cancer. 4  Blood protein testing
Complete Blood Count Tests. A complete blood count (CBC) is a common blood test that is used to help diagnose some blood cancers, such as leukemia and lymphoma, tell if a cancer has spread to the bone marrow, and help determine how your body is tolerating cancer treatments. 