Biceps: Long Head. The biceps brachii muscle splits into two tendons at the shoulder: the long head and the short head. The long head of the biceps muscle assists other muscles with shoulder flexion. It is located in the front of the upper arm and attaches to the glenoid fossa, or socket part of the shoulder joint. The long head of the biceps muscle is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve. The coracobrachialis is a small muscle that also produces shoulder flexion. It originates from a protrusion on the shoulder blade called the coracoid process, and attaches to the humerus bone.
Muscles of the neck. NECK MUSCLES: The motion of the neck can be divided into rotation (looking side to side), lateral flexion (ear to shoulder), flexion (chin to sternum) and hyperextension (looking up). Knowing which muscles do each motion will take you a long way towards proper evaluation and treatment. Muscles of the elbow. ELBOW MUSCLES: The muscles that flex the elbow are the biceps, brachialis, and the brachioradialis. The muscles that extend the elbow are the triceps and anconeus. ELBOW INJURIES: The most common elbow injuries are golfers elbow, tennis elbow.
Watch lateral flexion here : Look straight ahead and then bring your chin down toward your chest. This is neck flexion, and the anterior scalene acts in it. The other muscles involved include the sternocleidomastoid (it’s in everything!), longus capitis, and longus colli. If you look straight ahead, then turn your head to the side, this is contralateral head rotation. 
Rotation describes the action of moving the head from side to side, lateral motion brings the ear to the shoulder, flexion moves the chin to the chest (as in looking down), and hyperextension moves the neck so that the head tilts upward. Neck muscles are bodies of tissue that produce motion in the neck when stimulated. The muscles of the neck run from the base of the skull to the upper back and work together to bend the head and assist in breathing. The motion of the muscles of the neck are divided into four categories: rotation, lateral flexion, flexion, and hyperextension
Lateral Neck Flexion Stretch. Lateral neck flexion stretch targets the upper trapezius muscle. This stretch can be very useful for people who suffer from tight, aching muscles in the upper back and neck, such as those who work at a computer.
Muscular movements of the head (at the cervical spine/neck) and of the torso (thoracic and lumbar spine/upper, middle, and lower back): flexion, extension, lateral flexion, rotation. 
When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, flexion refers to movement in the anterior direction. Flexion of the shoulder or hip refers to movement of the arm or leg forward. Extension is the opposite of flexion, describing a straightening movement that increases the angle between body parts. When a joint can move forward and backward, such as the neck and trunk, extension refers to movement in the posterior direction. For example, when standing up, the knees are extende
Splenius Capitus. The splenius capitus is a thick muscle that resembles a strap. It is located in the back of your neck. It begins at the base of your skull and ends at the top of your thoracic spine. This muscle allows for head extension, as well as lateral flexion and rotation of the cervical spine. Eight muscles get worked during neck extensions. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Neck extensions are performed for a variety of reasons, including physical therapy after a neck or upper body injury, to relieve arthritis or joint pain, and as a strength building exercise.