1 Botulinum toxin is used to reduce fine lines and wrinkles by paralysing the underlying muscles. 2  People also use Botox to treat excessive sweating, migraines, muscular disorders, and some bladder and bowel disorders. 3  Botulism, an infection with botulinum toxin, can cause respiratory failure and prove deadly. 1 Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic. 2  Botulinum toxin is used to reduce fine lines and wrinkles by paralysing the underlying muscles.
1 Botox is the most popular cosmetic surgery treatment, with more than 6 million Botox treatments administered each year. 2  Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic. 1 Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic. 2  Botulinum toxin is used to reduce fine lines and wrinkles by paralysing the underlying muscles.
Botox, Dysport, and Xeomin are all used to counter wrinkles. They're a purified form of botulinum toxin A, meaning there's no botulism risk when used properly. They work by blocking the nerves that contract muscles, softening the appearance of wrinkles. 
Botox can treat aging found in several areas of the face, including frown lines, crow's feet, smile lines, and other areas around the mouth, nose, and eyes. Schedule a consultation with one of our dermatologists to discuss your aging concerns and find out the best treatment options for your problem areas. 
Cosmetic Uses of Botox. Doctors have been using Botox for years to successfully treat wrinkles and facial creases. Botox is a brand name of a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. There are also other brand names, such as Dysport and Xeomin. That makes the wrinkles relax and soften. Botox is most often used on forehead lines, crow's feet (lines around the eye), and frown lines. Wrinkles caused by sun damage and gravity will not respond to Botox.
BOTOX ® has been an effective treatment for blepharospasm since FDA approval in 1989. BOTOX ® is a prescription medicine that is injected into muscles and used to treat abnormal spasm of the eyelids (blepharospasm) in people 12 years and older. Blepharospasm is characterized by involuntary spasms of the muscles around the eye, resulting in uncontrolled blinking, narrowing, and even closing of the eyelid. BOTOX ® is a prescription medicine that is injected into muscles and used to treat increased muscle stiffness in elbow, wrist, and finger muscles in people 18 years and older with upper limb spasticity (ULS).
Knowledge center. Botox is a drug made from a neurotoxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum called botulinum toxin. It is used medically to treat certain muscular conditions and cosmetically remove wrinkles by temporarily paralyzing muscles. 1 Botox is a neurotoxin derived from Clostridium botulinum, an organism found in the natural environment where it is largely inactive and non-toxic. 2  Botulinum toxin is used to reduce fine lines and wrinkles by paralysing the underlying muscles.