Netherlands Exchange Rate. The currency used in the Netherlands / Holland is the Euro (EUR). A quick look down the tables will allow you to compare currencies. The tables show you one column with the local currency value of one Euro (EUR) and one column with the value of one unit of the local currency in Euros. Find out the Netherlands currency exchange rate for your currency. Look at the following tables for at-a-glance comparison of the Dutch exchange rate (Euro).
The Netherlands Antillean guilder is still in use in Curacao curaçao And Sint (maarten two countries in The kingdom of The), netherlands but this currency is distinct from The dutch. Guilder in, 2004 The surinamese guilder was replaced by The surinamese. dollar The Netherlands Antillean guilder is still in use in Curacao curaçao And Sint (maarten two countries in The kingdom of The), netherlands but this currency is distinct from The dutch. guilder
The Dutch guilder (Dutch: gulden, [ˈɣʏldə(n)]) or fl. was the currency of the Netherlands from the 17th century until 2002, when it was replaced by the euro. Between 1999 and 2002, the guilder was officially a national subunit of the euro. However, physical payments could only be made in guilder, as no euro coins or banknotes were available. The Netherlands Antillean guilder is still in use in Curacao curaçao And Sint (maarten two countries in The kingdom of The), netherlands but this currency is distinct from The dutch. guilder
Exchange Rate Amsterdam. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Amsterdam. The currency used in Amsterdam is the Euro. Amsterdam is the capital of The Netherlands. If you are traveling to Amsterdam, you will need to exchange your currency for the Dutch Euro. You may exchange your money for the Euro at most Amsterdam banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus.
Prior to the inception of the Euro, the Netherlands official currency was the Dutch guilder, which we’ll simply refer to as the guilder. This was the case for 322 years, from 1680 all the way to 2002. The euro became the official currency of the Netherlands in 2002, even though the currency itself was first used in 1999 by electronic means and traveler’s checks. Legal tender was first used three years later, beginning in the calendar year
The Netherlands Antillean guilder (Dutch: gulden) is currently the currency of Curacao curaçao And Sint maarten which until 2010 formed The Netherlands antilles along With, Bonaire saba And Sint. Eustatius it is subdivided into 100 (Cents dutch plural: form). centen The Netherlands Antillean guilder (Dutch: gulden) is currently the currency of Curacao curaçao And Sint maarten which until 2010 formed The Netherlands antilles along With, Bonaire saba And Sint. eustatius