What about Canada’s highest income earners? 880,000 Canadians reported income in the range of $100,000 to $150,000, 333,000 reported incomes between $150,000 and $250,000 and a mere 174,000 of tax return filing Canadians or 0.7% had income over $250,000. What’s also interesting is the effect your income has on your marginal tax rate and your average tax rate.
It’s a misconception that native people in Canada are free of the obligation to pay federal or provincial taxes. First Nations people receive tax exemption under certain circumstances, although the exemptions don't apply to the Inuit and Metis. “With Status Indians on reserve earning less than $15,000 a year, their tax burden would be minimal if not zero,” Joseph notes. Any income earned off-reserve is taxable by the Canada Revenue Agency, and this applies to all native and non-native people.
Also....education. The government of Canada spends on average, $11,000 per student, in public schooling. Students in Separate (Catholic) schools receive more funding, as they get it from several sources. In a First Nations community, the government spends just over $8,000 per student. In total, the Canadian government spends faaaar less, on ALL things Aboriginal, than they do on the gen-pop. And much of the moneys used to run First Nations communities, and programs, belong to the First Nations already....held in trust. http://www.aadnc-aandc.gc.ca/eng/1100100... DeBeers is constructing a $1 billion mine on the lands belonging to the Atawapiskatowi ininiwak with an anticipated revenue of $6.7 billion. the owners of those lands will see none of that money, over $14 billion of oil and gas has been extracted from lands belonging to the Lubicon Cree.
Just to verify that some Native Americans do get monthly checks, my friend's son was half NA and located his fathers tribe, became a verified NA and started receiving checks immediately. I don't know how much or who was paying, but he was happy. · just now. Report Abuse. I very much would like to see someone post links proving that native Americans get money from the government just for being native American. Those that post about it in here they never do prove it and I know that they can never prove it.
This leads to the impression that natives don't have to pay tax like other Canadians, which isn’t true according to Bob Joseph, president of Indigenous Corporate Training, Inc., a British Columbia-based company specializing in helping corporations work with aboriginal people. “With Status Indians on reserve earning less than $15,000 a year, their tax burden would be minimal if not zero,” Joseph notes. Any income earned off-reserve is taxable by the Canada Revenue Agency, and this applies to all native and non-native people.
The average cost would be around $200-$220 per month.... 0. 0. If you are a new driver and getting your first car insurance, the average cost would be around $200-$220 per month. Though it may also depend on the car you own and the state but the cheapest car insurance I found for my car was just about $200 per month.
There is a prevailing myth that Canada's more than 600 First Nations and native communities live off of money -- subsidies -- from the Canadian government. This myth, though it is loudly proclaimed and widely believed, is remarkable for its boldness; widely accessible, verifiable facts show that the opposite is true. 
Reply ↓. incornsyucopia on. true, $50,000,000.00 + per year is a mere pittance Melvin… as of 2007, the monarchy cost Canadians approx $50 million per year… and it’s not hard to find proof… just google “how much does the Monarchy cost Canada every year” and you will find my numbers are backed up. 