Experts have yet to pinpoint the amount of soy isoflavones needed to produce health benefits. In Asian countries, where the prevalence of disorders such as breast cancer and invasive prostate cancer is relatively low, people consume soy foods in amounts that provide an estimated 20 to 200 mg of soy isoflavones a day. Two particularly important isoflavones in soy–genistein and daidzein–appear to protect against hormone-related disorders such as breast cancer and endometriosis. They do this by competing for the same place on cells (receptor sites) that the body’s own estrogen does.
Westerners have been slow to put tempeh, soy milk, tofu, and other soybean products on the table. But as evidence mounts that compounds in soy–isoflavones–have impressive health benefits, so too does consumption of this Asian dietary staple. Two particularly important isoflavones in soy–genistein and daidzein–appear to protect against hormone-related disorders such as breast cancer and endometriosis. They do this by competing for the same place on cells (receptor sites) that the body’s own estrogen does.
Isoflavones are a type of often naturally occurring isoflavonoids, many of which act as phytoestrogens in mammals. Some are termed antioxidants because of their ability to trap singlet oxygen. Isoflavones are produced almost exclusively by the members of the Fabaceae (i.e., Leguminosae, or bean) family. Isoflavones are produced via a branch of the general phenylpropanoid pathway that produces flavonoid compounds in higher plants. Soybeans are the most common source of isoflavones in human food; the major isoflavones in soybean are genistein and daidzein.
Isoflavones (and closely related phytoestrogens) have grown popular as dietary supplements, but there are few studies showing any benefits from these compounds, and their use is viewed within the scientific and medical community as pseudoscience. Isoflavones are produced via a branch of the general phenylpropanoid pathway that produces flavonoid compounds in higher plants. Soybeans are the most common source of isoflavones in human food; the major isoflavones in soybean are genistein and daidzein.
Soy supplements may contain isoflavones or soy protein or both. Soybeans can be cooked and eaten or used to make tofu, soy milk, and other foods. Also, soy is sometimes used as an additive in various processed foods, including baked goods, cheese, and pasta. 
By Monique N. Gilbert. N umerous reports indicate that, because soy is high in isoflavones, it can prevent illness and promote good health. Isoflavones are a class of phytochemicals, which are compounds found only in plants (phyto means plant). 
One problem with soy isoflavone supplements is the variable amounts of isoflavones in the supplements, and how these differ from the levels in soy foods. Pills may contain much more, or much less, than the label states, since there is no regulation. Isoflavones are biologically-active, nonnutritive compounds that are present in relatively large amounts in soybean and soyfoods. Soybeas contain two main types of isoflavones; daidzein and genistein.
Edamame and other soy-based foods are rich in isoflavones. Soy isoflavones belong to a class of plant-based compounds known as phytoestrogens, so-called because they are similar in chemical structure and function to the female sex hormone estrogen. Because of their chemical similarity to the female sex hormone estrogen, soy isoflavones provide an alternative for postmenopausal women who cannot tolerate conventional hormone replacement therapy for a variety of reasons.
1 Soybeans and soy products are the richest sources of isoflavones in the human diet. ( 2 More information). 3  The results of randomized controlled trials suggest that substituting 50 g/day of soy protein for animal protein results in only a modest 3% reduction of LDL cholesterol. Since infants fed soy-based formulas are exposed to relatively high levels of isoflavones, which they can absorb and metabolize, concern has been raised regarding potential long-term effects on growth, development, as well as reproductive and immune function (110, 123) .
Soy isoflavones occur naturally in soybeans and can be found in several soy-based foods such as miso, soy sauce, tofu, edamame, soy milk and soy butter. Researchers have found that these compounds have some medicinal properties, particularly for women, and continue to study soy isoflavones for other health benefits. Because of their chemical similarity to the female sex hormone estrogen, soy isoflavones provide an alternative for postmenopausal women who cannot tolerate conventional hormone replacement therapy for a variety of reasons.