One was a RFK-fed LIFE magazine expose into LBJ’s epic corruption and ties to his protege’protégé S Bobby’baker s. Scandals the other was A Senate Rules committee, investigation also fed By Robert, kennedy INTO’lbj s corruption and,” Kickbacks stone. said
Stone, a former aide to Nixon, claims that Nixon also believed LBJ was responsible. Nixon recognized Jack Ruby, the man who killed Lee Harvey Oswald, as a man introduced to him “as one of Lyndon Johnson’s boys”. “Nixon says in the Watergate tapes that the Warren Commission is the greatest hoax ever perpetrated.
The anti-social whackjob in the JFK assassination was not LHO, but rather Lyndon Johnson himself, the usurper president! Bill Moyers and Richard Goodwin, 2 aides SEPARATELY went to see a psychiatrist inquiring about Lyndon Johnson's mental condition. Also, read George Reedy's book on LBJ-calls him a lout and a SADIST.
I believe that Malcolm Wallace, who was a long-time associate and hitman for LBJ is the actual killer, I tie Johnson to at least eight murders in Texas prior to John F. Kennedy. These were murders to cover up corruption, they were murders to cover up voter fraud through theft of elections.
One was a RFK-fed LIFE magazine expose into LBJ’s epic corruption and ties to his protege’protégé S Bobby’baker s. Scandals the other was A Senate Rules committee, investigation also fed By Robert, kennedy INTO’lbj s corruption and,” Kickbacks stone. “Said” desperate does not even begin to DESCRIBE’lbj s. situation
In fact, President Kennedy’s secretary Evelyn Lincoln claims that JFK told her that Lyndon Johnson would not be on the ticket when he ran for reelection. “(LBJ) was greedy, he was corrupt, he was ambitious,” Stone said. “In 1963 he was a man staring into the abyss.
Lyndon Johnson knew that John Kennedy was going to be assassinated in a motorcade in Dallas, and out of a twisted sense of chivalry, is trying to get Jackie into the relative safety of his car and out of the kill zone.
I believe that Malcolm Wallace, who was a long-time associate and hitman for LBJ is the actual killer, I tie Johnson to at least eight murders in Texas prior to John F. Kennedy. These were murders to cover up corruption, they were murders to cover up voter fraud through theft of elections.