Canada is a leading exporter of pulse crops with approximately 75% of the production exported annually. Canada represents 35% of the global pulse trade, and the trade balance of pulse crops increased from $863 million in 2000 to $2.1 billion in 2010. Commercial production of pulse crops continues to be a profitable enterprise for pulse growers in Canada. More than 10 000 Canadian farms grow pulse crops with a farm cash receipt of about $1.7 billion annually.
1 Pulse crops are versatile, adding flexibility to cropping systems. 2  If growing conditions turn dry, pulse crops can be harvested or grazed for forage or terminated to conserve soil moisture-the soil will still benefit from nitrogen fixation, rotation, and having a cover crop. 1 Pluse crop acres have increased from 350,000 in 2009 to over 700,000 in 2014. 2  Pulse crops require little (if any) nitrogen fertilizer; instead they fix nitrogen from the air into the soil. 3  Pulse crops help break disease and pest cycles in wheat and barley.
1 Pulse crops help break disease and pest cycles in wheat and barley. 2  The wheat or barley crop that follows a pulse crop can experience substantial rotational benefits, improving yield and quality. 3  Pulse crops are versatile, adding flexibility to cropping systems. 1 Pluse crop acres have increased from 350,000 in 2009 to over 700,000 in 2014. 2  Pulse crops require little (if any) nitrogen fertilizer; instead they fix nitrogen from the air into the soil. 3 
Pulse crops are members of the family Leguminosae or Fabaceae (see LEGUME). The term pulse crops generally refers to those plant species harvested primarily for dry seed that is used as both human food and animal feed. The four commonly grown pulse crops in Canada are FIELD PEA, LENTIL, DRY BEAN and chickpea. Faba bean, Lupin and Mung bean are also grown in Canada on a smaller scale. Commercial production of pulse crops continues to be a profitable enterprise for pulse growers in Canada. More than 10 000 Canadian farms grow pulse crops with a farm cash receipt of about $1.7 billion annually.
04/16/98 BOZEMAN -- Pulse crops are the seeds of legumes used as food, says Mike Greytak, secretary-treasurer of the Montana Pulse Growers Association. They include peas, beans, lentils and chickpeas. Pulse crops are a small but important segment of the 1800 legume species. Referring to information from the Saskatchewan Pulse Production Manual, Greytak said the word pulse is derived from the Latin word for a thick soup and that the use of pulse crops is thought to date back 10,000 years. Pulse crops provide about 10 percent of the world=s dietary protein, added Greytak. They have two to three times the protein content of cereal grain. In 1996, about 45 million metric tons of pulse crops were produced on 130 million acres worldwide.
1 Pulse crops require little (if any) nitrogen fertilizer; instead they fix nitrogen from the air into the soil. 2  Pulse crops help break disease and pest cycles in wheat and barley. 3  The wheat or barley crop that follows a pulse crop can experience substantial rotational benefits, improving yield and quality. 1 Pluse crop acres have increased from 350,000 in 2009 to over 700,000 in 2014. 2  Pulse crops require little (if any) nitrogen fertilizer; instead they fix nitrogen from the air into the soil. 3
Pulse Crops. Pulse crops are a distinctly diverse agricultural segment and FMC has insecticides and herbicides to match each crop and crop usage. For dry beans, dry peas, field peas, lentils, black-eyed beans, lima beans, pigeon peas and more, FMC has the steel-toed protection you're looking for. 
“Pulse crops” refers to a group of more than sixty different grain legume crops grown around the world. The seeds of pulse crops are important in human nutrition. They are typically made up of 20-25% protein and 40-50% starch; they are also rich in dietary fibre and usually have only small amounts of oil. All five are grown in Saskatchewan. Pulse crops are valuable as an annual legume in crop rotations because they provide breaks in disease cycles that affect the major cereal and oilseed crops. They also provide a diversified source of farm income.
1 Pulse crops utilize soil moisture efficiently. 2  In Montana, farmers have incorporated pulse crops into their crop rotations to reduce the amount of land left fallow (idle). 1 Pluse crop acres have increased from 350,000 in 2009 to over 700,000 in 2014. 2  Pulse crops require little (if any) nitrogen fertilizer; instead they fix nitrogen from the air into the soil. 3  Pulse crops help break disease and pest cycles in wheat and barley.
The term pulse, as used by the United Nations ' Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), is reserved for crops harvested solely for the dry seed. This excludes green beans and green peas, which are considered vegetable crops. For the medical term, see Pulse. A pulse (from Latin: puls, from Ancient Greek πόλτος: poltos  porridge ), sometimes called a grain legume , is an annual leguminous crop yielding from one to twelve seeds of variable size, shape, and color within a pod.