Store at 70º to 75ºF while fermenting. At temperatures between 70º and 75ºF, kraut will be fully fermented in about 3 to 4 weeks; at 60º to 65ºF, fermentation may take 5 to 6 weeks. At temperatures lower than 60ºF, kraut may not ferment. 
This is possibly the most common query people have. The short answer is: 2 weeks. The long answer is: it depends. The sauerkraut (or any other fermented vegetable for that matter) will usually be ready to eat in 3 to 4 days. However, when traditionally made in the fermenting crocks, sauerkraut was often left for up to six weeks or longer. You should also notice that the brine will become clearer over the same period, and if you have used red cabbage as part of a recipe, the colour will change to a more vibrant pink, as can be seen in the pictures below. The sauerkraut pictured was fermented for two weeks, but had turned pink after four days.
If it’s in a cool place, it will take longer to ferment. Personally, I think 4 week sauerkraut is too young though many people eat it that early. If it still tastes cabbagey, it’s not ready. I usually let mine ferment at room time (72F) for about a week and then move it to a cooler place to ferment for a full 12 weeks. I started fermenting my sauerkraut in a fido jar about 3 weeks ago. I noticed a few days after it started fermenting, it had risen over the brine. I didn’t know at the time that I should open it and add more brine so it has been sitting there over the brine for 3 weeks.
Ferment the cabbage for 3 to 10 days: As it's fermenting, keep the sauerkraut away from direct sunlight and at a cool room temperature — ideally 65°F to 75°F. Check it daily and press it down if the cabbage is floating above the liquid. Store sauerkraut for several months: This sauerkraut is a fermented product so it will keep for at least two months and often longer if kept refrigerated. As long as it still tastes and smells good to eat, it will be. If you like, you can transfer the sauerkraut to a smaller container for longer storage.
The best quality sauerkraut is fermented for a minimum of 20 days. This time span ensures good flavor development, proper acidity level and complete consumption of all the sugars in the cabbage. The L. mesenteroides do most of their work in the first 3 days. They are the smallest of the three bacteria studied. For starters, until you like the taste, texture and tang of your sauerkraut! After all, you have to like it to eat it. Many have a hard time waiting for three weeks with their first few jars of sauerkraut. Plus, it is rather unnerving to leave a jar of food just sitting on your counter.
Store at 70º to 75ºF while fermenting. At temperatures between 70º and 75ºF, kraut will be fully fermented in about 3 to 4 weeks; at 60º to 65ºF, fermentation may take 5 to 6 weeks. At temperatures lower than 60ºF, kraut may not ferment. Above 75ºF, kraut may become soft. 
For best quality sauerkraut, a room temperature of 75 F. (23C) is ideal; fermentation will take about 3 weeks. At 70F (20C), allow about 4 weeks; at 65F (18C), about 5 weeks; and 60F (15C), about 6 weeks. Temperatures above 75F will result in premature fermentation and possible spoilage. Keep track of the temperature so that you know when to check the sauerkraut.
At temperatures between 70° and 75° F, ***** will be fully fermented in about 3 to 4 weeks; at 60° to 65° F, fermentation may take 5 to 6 weeks. At temperatures lower than 60° F, ***** may not ferment. Above 75° F, ***** may become soft. 
It just needs to ferment longer. 4 week sauerkraut isn’t fully fermented. It takes a minimum of 10 weeks to get a good sauerkraut. Some people don’t touch it for a full 6 months. It shouldn’t taste like cabbage and shouldn’t taste salty. I started fermenting my sauerkraut in a fido jar about 3 weeks ago. I noticed a few days after it started fermenting, it had risen over the brine. I didn’t know at the time that I should open it and add more brine so it has been sitting there over the brine for 3 weeks.
So, make it your goal to ferment for the full 3 weeks if your fermentation temperature is in the ideal range of 65-72° Fahrenheit (18–22° Celsius). When I teach my workshops, I have people open their sauerkraut on day 7 and taste. If they like it, put it in the fridge. For starters, until you like the taste, texture and tang of your sauerkraut! After all, you have to like it to eat it. Many have a hard time waiting for three weeks with their first few jars of sauerkraut. Plus, it is rather unnerving to leave a jar of food just sitting on your counter.