While Jupiter and Saturn are mostly composed of hydrogen and helium, the ice giant Uranus is much different. Instead, it is mostly composed of various ices, like water, ammonia and methane. The mass of Uranus is roughly 14.5 times the mass of the Earth. Astronomers think that between 9.3 and 13.5 Earth masses of this is made up of these ices. Hydrogen and helium only account for about 0.5 to 1.5 Earth masses. The rest of the material in Uranus is probably rocky material. Uranus.
The ice giant Uranus is certainly different from other gas giants such as Jupiter and Saturn, which are both mostly composed of helium and hydrogen. Uranus is composed, mostly of various ices such as methane and ammonia. Its mass has been approximated at 14.5 times that of Earth. Astronomers believe that 9.3 and 13.5 Earth masses of this are actually comprised of the aforementioned ices.
But most of the planet is made up of ices, mostly water, methane, and ammonia. Ices dominate because the vast distance to Uranus from the sun allows the planet to maintain frigid temperatures. A frigid core. While most planets have rocky molten cores, the center of Uranus is thought to contain icy materials. Far, far from the sun, Uranus has a blue-green atmosphere that hints at its makeup. One of the two ice giants, the planets composition differs somewhat from Jupiter and Saturn in that it is made up of more ice than gas. Near-infrared views of Uranus reveal its otherwise faint ring system, highlighting the extent to which the planet is tilted
Uranus's atmosphere, although similar to Jupiter's and Saturn's in its primary composition of hydrogen and helium, contains more  ices , such as water, ammonia, and methane, along with traces of other hydrocarbons. Uranus is similar in composition to Neptune, and both have different bulk chemical composition from that of the larger gas giants Jupiter and Saturn.
Report Abuse. While Jupiter and Saturn are mostly composed of hydrogen and helium, the ice giant Uranus is much different. Instead, it is mostly composed of various ices, like water, ammonia and methane. The mass of Uranus is roughly 14.5 times the mass of the Earth. Astronomers think that between 9.3 and 13.5 Earth masses of this is made up of these ices. Hydrogen and helium only account for about 0.5 to 1.5 Earth masses. Best Answer: Here it is from my Solar System book-Uranus is big. It is 4 times the size of Earth and could contain 63 Earths inside it; yet it has only 14.5 times the mass of Earth. So the material it is made of must be less dense than that
It is made mainly of water, methane, and ammonia ices, which are surrounded by a gaseous layer. Electric currents within it's icy layer are belived to generate the planet's magnetic field, which is offset by 58.6 degrees from Uranus' spin axis. Also Uranus' atmosphere is made up of hydrogen, helium, and other gases. Best Answer: Here it is from my Solar System book-Uranus is big. It is 4 times the size of Earth and could contain 63 Earths inside it; yet it has only 14.5 times the mass of Earth. So the material it is made of must be less dense than that of the Earth.
Uranus is the second least dense planet in the solar system, indicating that it is made up mostly of ices. Unlike Jupiter and Saturn, which are composed predominantly of hydrogen and helium, Uranus contains only a small portion of these light elements. Far, far from the sun, Uranus has a blue-green atmosphere that hints at its makeup. One of the two ice giants, the planets composition differs somewhat from Jupiter and Saturn in that it is made up of more ice than gas. Near-infrared views of Uranus reveal its otherwise faint ring system, highlighting the extent to which the planet is tilted