1 Prague: The Capital of the Czech Republic Prague, the capital city of the Czech Republic, is home to 1.3 million people. 2  This makes it one of the larger cities in Eastern Europe. 3  Prague also continues to be an extrem…. 1 Fortunately, those heading to Europe in the near future can take advantage of the free walking tours that are offe…. 2 
The capital Prague is often called The Heart of Europe as it is located in the middle of the Continent. There are over 10,5 million people in the Czech Republic and about 1,3 million people in Prague. Western part of the Czech Republic is called Bohemia, eastern Moravia, north eastern part Silesia. Before the arrival of the Slavs in the 6th century this area was inhabited by Germanic and Celtic tribes. A lot of rulers and kings ruled the people in Bohemia from the 7th to 19th centuries
I'm really not sure, but probably Czechoslovakian. The country used to be called Czechoslovakia until 1993 when it was broken up into The Czech Republic and Slovakia. Long before that, however, it was called the Lands of the Bohemian Crown. I'd guess they were called Bohemian at that time. 
They share a common culture, history and speak the Czech language. Ethnic Czechs were called Bohemians in English until the early 20th century, referring to the late Iron Age tribe of Celtic Boii and their land Bohemia.
In other words, what language do people in Czech Republic speak? The language that people speak in Czech Republic is Czech. Okay, now that you know what people from Czech Republic are called and you know what language they speak, you may want to learn more about the people of Czech Republic. Here is more information about the country of Czech Republic.
1 Prague: The Capital of the Czech Republic Prague, the capital city of the Czech Republic, is home to 1.3 million people. 2  This makes it one of the larger cities in Eastern Europe. 3  Prague also continues to be an extrem…. Czech Republic is rich. It is in the middle of the European ranking, 13 out of 27 and its capital, Prague is fifth wealthiest region in the EU. (According to Eurostat, as of 2 … 009.) The definite answer as is slightly more complex.
) is a landlocked country in Central Europe bordered by Germany to the west, Austria to the south, Slovakia to the east and Poland to the northeast. The capital and largest city, Prague, has over 1.2 million residents. The Czech Republic includes the historical territories of Bohemia, Moravia, and Czech Silesia. 
Czechs are people living in the Czech Republic whereas people inhabiting Slovakia are known as Slovaks. Historically, the region now known as Czech Republic was once part of the Austrian empire whereas the Slovak area was a part of the Kingdom of Hungary. 
What do you call someone from Czech Republic? In other words, what are people from Czech Republic called? A person from Czech Republic and/or a citizen of Czech Republic is called Czech. You may also be interested in what people from Czech Republic speak? Okay, now that you know what people from Czech Republic are called and you know what language they speak, you may want to learn more about the people of Czech Republic. Here is more information about the country
Czechs or Czech people (Czech: Češi, [ˈtʃɛʃɪ]) are a nation and ethnic group native to the Czech Republic in Central Europe. Ethnic Czechs were called Bohemians in English until the early 20th century, referring to the late Iron Age tribe of Celtic Boii and their land Bohemia.