Money. Money & Costs -- The euro (€) is the single European currency of Germany and other participating countries. Exchange rates of participating countries are locked into a common currency fluctuating against the dollar. The major cities of Germany are some of the world's most expensive
Here is some general inf ormation on Germany and the national currency (Euro) that I hope will be useful for anyone planning a trip here. One of the first things you will need to do when planning your trip to Germany is convert your national currency to the Euro. 
The German currency is the Euro. Actually, the Euro is not German money, but it is the currency we use in this country. The Euro replaced the German Mark and it is the official currency of the European Union. Nineteen states in Europe currently use the Euro. These states are Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Spain.
Currency in Germany: The Euro. Germany's currency is the Euro (currency symbol: €), which replaced the traditional Deutsche Mark (also known as Deutschmark or DM) in 2002. The Euro is the only generally accepted currency in Germany. Knut pictures. Germany's currency is the Euro (currency symbol: €), which replaced the traditional Deutsche Mark (also known as Deutschmark or DM) in 2002.
[ˈdɔʏtʃə ˈmaɐ̯k] , German mark, abbreviated DM) was the official currency of West Germany (1948–1990) and unified Germany (1990–2002) until the adoption of the euro in 2002. It is commonly called the  Deutschmark  in English but not in German. Germans often say Mark (help·info) or D-Mark (help·info) . This article is about the Deutsche mark issued by the Federal Republic of Germany. For the Deutsche mark issued by the German Democratic Republic, see East German mark. For the currency of the German Empire from 1873 to 1914, see German gold mark.
Germany is in the European Common Market -- the Euro is the basic. monetary unit. Germany has used the Euro since 1999. Previously it used the German Mark. 
1957 - 2015. Daily. The euro is the official currency of Germany, which is a member of the European Union. The Euro Area refers to a currency union among the European Union member states that have adopted the euro as their sole official currency. 
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code. This website shall not be liable for any losses or damages incurred in connection with this site.