This genuine alexandrite gemstone has a very strong color change from deep green in daylight to deep red-violet under incandescent light (100%. colors-this genuine alexandrite gemstone is unheated and untreated).
This genuine alexandrite faceted gemstone has a very good color change from a pleasant blue-green in daylight as shown in the photo at left to a pinkish purple under incandescent light This gem was native cut and is cut deeper than necessary for its width, and it is very clean for natural alexandrite.
Fine alexandrite is green to bluish green in daylight and red to purplish red in incandescent light. Its color saturation is moderately strong to strong. Stones that are too light do not reach the quality of color intensity seen in fine-quality gems.
This genuine alexandrite gemstone has a good color change from rich green in daylight (see lower photo) to reddish-purple hues under incandescent light (see upper photo).
Alexandrite is the variety of chrysoberyl that displays a change-of-color from green to red. A distinct color change is the primary qualification for a chrysoberyl to be considered alexandrite. Although alexandrite is strongly trichroic, its color change has nothing to do with pleochroism.
This genuine alexandrite gemstone has a good color change from green in daylight (see right hand photo) to reddish-purple hues under incandescent light (see left hand photo). This natural alexandrite gemstone faces up eye clean with faint natural inclusions visible under closer inspection.
This natural alexandrite gemstone has a good natural color change from rich green in daylight (see lower photo at left) to a beautiful slightly brownish reddish-purple color under incandescent light as shown in the upper part of the photo at left (it is 100%. color-unheated and untreated).
This genuine alexandrite gemstone has a very good color change from rich green in daylight to reddish-purple under incandescent light (100%. colors-this genuine alexandrite gemstone is unheated and untreated).
Alexandrite is a variety of the Gemstone Chrysoberyl. There are traces of Chromium present in Alexandrite that are not in Chryosberyl. This gives Alexandrite it's ability to change color under differant lighting sources, such Sunlight, incandescent lighting or Candlelight.