The droppings are the most common route by which the disease is transmitted to humans. It is commonly found in feral pigeons that appear healthy. Symptoms:...............Signs in animals include decreased or no appetite, resulting in emaciation, lethargy, respiratory signs, and a greenish blood-tinged diarrhea. Most of the bacteria that cause disease in wildlife also cause disease in man. There are several important routes of disease transmission. The contamination of neglected minor wounds, abrasions, and skin lesions where the skin is broken serve as common portals of entry for microorganisms.
The following is a list of the most common infectious diseases throughout the world today. Accurate caseload numbers are difficult to determine, especially because so many of these diseases are endemic to developing countries, where many people do not have access to modern medical care. Hepatitis C: Hepatitis C is a less common, and less severe, form of hepatitis. An estimated 170 million people worldwide are infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV); 3–4 million more are infected every year. The majority of HCV cases are asymptomatic, even in people who develop chronic infection.
Hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease caused by the Hepatitis C virus (HBV). Hepatitis C is the most common chronic bloodborne infection in the United States. 3.2 million Americans are living with chronic Hepatitis C, most are unaware of their infection.
Based on WHO's statistics, the combination of AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis is responsible for half (approximately 5 million) of all infectious-disease deaths each year. With that in mind, today we're going to look at the five most common infectious diseases around the globe. In addition, we'll also look at what, if any, global pharmaceutical companies may be able to take advantage of these multi-million-person, and even billion-person, opportunities. So, without further ado, here are the five most common infectious diseases. Hepatitis-B. According to current statistics, hepatitis-B is the most common infectious disease in the world, affecting some 2 billion people -- that's more than one-quarter of the world's population
The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis. 
An infectious disease or communicable disease is caused by a biological agent such as by a virus, bacterium or parasite. The vector does not have to be biological. Many infectious diseases are transmitted by droplets which enter the airway (e.g. common cold and tuberculosis). The most common pathogens are various bacteria and viruses, though a number of other microorganisms, including some kinds of fungi and protozoa, also cause disease. An infectious disease is termed contagious if it is easily transmitted from one person to another.
Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens. The most common pathogens are various bacteria and viruses, though a number of other microorganisms, including some kinds of fungi and protozoa, also cause disease. An infectious disease is termed contagious if it is easily transmitted from one person to another.
The following is a list of the most common infectious diseases throughout the world today. Accurate caseload numbers are difficult to determine, especially because so many of these diseases are endemic to developing countries, where many people do not have access to modern medical care. Around 50,000 cases occur each year; 25% to 30% of all cases are fatal. Leishmaniasis: Leishmaniasis is a disease spread by the bite of the sandfly. It is found mostly in tropical countries. There are several types of leishmaniasis, and they vary in symptoms and severity.
The symptoms of infectious diseases vary but the most common symptoms are fever, muscle aches, vomiting, and diarrhea. The common cold, flu, mumps, measles, and food borne illness are examples of infectious diseases. A noninfectious disease cannot be spread from one person to another. 