Its members are commonly known as the Sac Fungi. They are the largest phylum of Fungi, with over 64,000 species. The defining feature of this fungal group is the ascus (from Greek: ἀσκός (askos), meaning sac or wineskin), a microscopic sexual structure in which nonmotile spores, called ascospores, are formed. Familiar examples of sac fungi include morels, truffles, brewer's yeast and baker's yeast, Dead Man's Fingers, and cup fungi. The fungal symbionts in the majority of lichens (loosely termed ascolichens) such as Cladonia belong to the Ascomycota.
Zygote fungi is a phylum or ranking of fungi. It is also known as  zygomycota. During sexual reproduction, zygote fungi produce  resistant spherical spores. 1 An Introduction to the Fungal Kingdom Kingdom Fungi contains organisms that are probably familiar to you like mushrooms, yeast, and bread molds. 2  Fungi belong to [Domain Eukarya](http://biology.answers.com/biodive…
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi. The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction. Approximately 1060 species are known. Familiar examples of sac fungi include morels, truffles, brewer's yeast and baker's yeast, Dead Man's Fingers, and cup fungi. The fungal symbionts in the majority of lichens (loosely termed ascolichens) such as Cladonia belong to the Ascomycota.
Common black bread mold is a zygote fungi, and all of the mycorrhizae are zygote fungi, or zygomycetes (the suffix-mycete means fungus.) They all are composed only of hyphae, which gives rise to another common name for this phylum: the Threadlike Fungi. 
Share to: 1  An Introduction to the Fungal Kingdom Kingdom Fungi contains organisms that are probably familiar to you like mushrooms, yeast, and bread molds. 2  Fungi belong to [Domain Eukarya](http://biology.answers.com/biodive…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 1 An Introduction to the Fungal Kingdom Kingdom Fungi contains organisms that are probably familiar to you like mushrooms, yeast, and bread molds. 2  Fungi belong to [Domain Eukarya](http://biology.answers.com/biodive…
Like the zygote fungi, sac fungi usually reproduce asexually when conditions are suitable, and sexually when conditions become harsh. Asexual reproduction in sac fungi produces an enormous number of spores. These asexual spores are formed externally in long chains or clusters at the tips of specialized hyphae. Also like zygote fungi, sexual reproduction in sac fungi involves the joining of two genetically different mycelia.
Zygote fungi is a phylum or ranking of fungi. It is also known as  zygomycota. During sexual reproduction, zygote fungi produce  resistant spherical spores. Zygote fungi are fungi that make up that hairy mold on breads and fruits. They grow their where they will reproduce. The stems are called hyphae. The little knobs at the end a … re called sporangium.
One example is Rhizopus stolonifer, which belongs to a group called the zygote fungi. Zygote fungi are mostly terrestrial and live in soil or on decaying plant and animal material. When food is available, the fungus's hyphae spread out over the food and absorb nutrients. Asexual reproduction in sac fungi produces an enormous number of spores. These asexual spores are formed externally in long chains or clusters at the tips of specialized hyphae. Also like zygote fungi, sexual reproduction in sac fungi involves the joining of two genetically different mycelia.
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi. The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction. Approximately 1050 species are known. They are mostly terrestrial in habitat, living in soil or on decaying plant or animal material. 