If you sign up late for Medicare Part B, you will have to pay a late penalty premium every month for the rest of your life, along with your Part B premium. Your monthly Part B premium will go up 10% for each full 12-month period that you could have had Medicare Part B but did not take it. 
Once you’re eligible for Medicare, you’ll have an initial enrollment period to sign up for Medicare. For most people, the initial enrollment period starts 3 months before their 65th birthday and ends 3 months after their 65th birthday. 
For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
Part A late enrollment penalty. If you aren't eligible for premium-free Part A, and you don't buy it when you're first eligible, your monthly premium may go up 10%. You'll have to pay the higher premium for twice the number of years you could have had Part A, but didn't sign up. Example. If you were eligible for Part A for 2 years but didn't sign up, you'll have to pay the higher premium for 4 years. Usually, you don't have to pay a penalty if you meet certain conditions that allow you to sign up for Part A during a special enrollment period
Benjamin Thornton. Insurance Broker, Arlington, Massachusetts. You can sign up for Medicare Part B late, but there may be penalties. If you do not enroll in Medicare Part B when you first become eligible, you can enroll during the open enrollment period from January 1 and March 31 each year. If you sign up during this period, your plan will become effective July 1. You may be subject to a late enrollment penalty if you don't sign up when you're first eligible: an additional 10% is added to your premium for every year you did not have the coverage.
Note. You can sign up for free Part A (if you’re eligible) any time during or after your Initial Enrollment Period starts. Your coverage start date will depend on when you sign up. If you have to buy Part A and/or Part B, you can only sign up during a valid enrollment period. In most cases, if you don’t sign up for Medicare Part B when you’re first eligible, you’ll have to pay a late enrollment penalty for as long as you have Part B and could have a gap in your health coverage. Example. For example, if you're eligible for Medicare when you turn 65, you can sign up during the 7-month period that begins 3 months before the month you turn 65, includes the month you turn 65, and ends 3 months after the month you turn 65. Note.
1 Initial Enrollment Period — When you are first eligible for Medicare, you have a seven-month period to sign up. 2  This seven-month period begins three months before your 65th birthday, includes the month you turn 65, and ends three months after you turn 65. 
In this case, Medicare would pay your medical claims first, and your employer coverage may not pay until Medicare does, leaving you in effect without coverage. Once you leave your job, you have eight months to sign up for Medicare Part B before incurring a late penalty. ------------. FOR THE RECORD. Signing up late for Medicare Part B can trigger a lifelong penalty. Late Medicare enrollees pay a penalty. Stuart Palley / For The Times. Robert Bowman, 65, of Torrance, a former tow truck driver, says he might have signed up late for Medicare Part B and incurred a penalty if not for a tip from his friend.
AgeOptions on behalf of the Make Medicare Work Coalition December 2011 Medicare Part B Enrollment Periods There are different time periods during which a person can enroll in Medicare. When you are eligible to enroll in Medicare Part B depends on your circumstances. 