Tanner crab nutrition: Crab is low in fat and calories, but rich in protein. It is also abundant in omega-3 nutrition, a healthy 412mg per 3 oz serving, which satisfies global health authorities' advice to consume 250-500mg daily. And it's a great source of most minerals (especially selenium) and B vitamins.
Now I found it's 100 calories for 1 table spoon of butter so to eat about a pound of crab legs in 3 table spoons of butter you are looking at about 800 calories for a pound of crab legs and butter. There is 95 calories in 3 ounces of crablegs so for 15 ounces right under 1 pound would be 475. Now take into account that when measuring crab they usually measure it with the shell. You are counting 95 calories for 3 ounces of meat not the shell so you can eat more than a pound for about 500 calories because you are eating the meat not the shell and the weigh the crab in the shell
Protein. The daily recommendation for protein is 46 grams for women and 56 grams for men, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. A 3-ounce serving of crab meat supplies 16.45 grams of protein toward these goals. Sodium and Cholesterol. A 3-ounce serving of crab meat contains 911 milligrams of sodium. Healthy adults should limit their intake of sodium to 2,300 milligrams a day or less, while individuals with heart disease, those over age 50 and African Americans should limit their intake to 1,500 milligrams or less.
Calories and Protein. A serving of one crab leg – approximately 134 g or 4.7 oz. – contains 130 calories. Bring a serving of crab legs into an ideally sized, healthy meal of 300 to 600 calories pairing it with a steamed vegetable, such as kale or carrots, and a nutritious grain. One serving of crab legs provides you with 25.9 g protein, a significant portion of the 46 to 56 g protein recommended for daily consumption. Eating too much can contribute toward your risk of obesity. A diet with more than 20 to 35 percent of its calories from fat is not recommended. Crab legs contain several healthy fats in the form of fatty acids.
Crab leg meat contains little fat; it's only 2 g per serving of crab legs. The fat you eat provides benefits to your health. It protects your organs and helps your body absorb a variety of nutrients. Eating too much can contribute toward your risk of obesity. A diet with more than 20 to 35 percent of its calories from fat is not recommended. Crab legs contain several healthy fats in the form of fatty acids.
Crab meat is low in saturated fat. Crab is a mild-tasting crustacean that is low in fat and contains just 82 calories per 3-ounce serving. The seafood supplies key vitamins and minerals that support good health, and can be an occasional part of your diet. Sodium and Cholesterol. A 3-ounce serving of crab meat contains 911 milligrams of sodium. Healthy adults should limit their intake of sodium to 2,300 milligrams a day or less, while individuals with heart disease, those over age 50 and African Americans should limit their intake to 1,500 milligrams or less.
The calories in crab meat vary slightly, from around 70 to 100 per 3-ounce portion. Crab meat is particularly lean, and over 80 percent of the calories are from protein. Fewer than 20 percent of the overall calories come from fat and even carbohydrates, in some cases, if you consume a type of crab with an edible soft shell. Queen crab tends to be higher in calories than any other type of crab meat. You’ll get nearly 100 calories from 3 ounces of steamed queen crab. If you prefer the decadent flavor of Alaska king crab, you’ll save a few calories. Calories by Type. Queen crab tends to be higher in calories than any other type of crab meat. You’ll get nearly 100 calories from 3 ounces of steamed queen crab. If you prefer the decadent flavor of Alaska king crab, you’ll save a few calories. A 3-ounce of cooked Alaska king crab yields closer to 80 calories.