Tennis elbow, or lateral epicondylitis, is a painful condition of the elbow caused by overuse. Not surprisingly, playing tennis or other racquet sports can cause this condition. However, several other sports and activities can also put you at risk. The bony bump on the outside (lateral side) of the elbow is called the lateral epicondyle. Muscles, ligaments, and tendons hold the elbow joint together. Lateral epicondylitis, or tennis elbow, involves the muscles and tendons of your forearm. Your forearm muscles extend your wrist and fingers. Your forearm tendons — often called extensors — attach the muscles to bone. They attach on the lateral epicondyle
Click Image to Enlarge. Medial epicondylitis, also known as golfer's elbow, baseball elbow, suitcase elbow, or forehand tennis elbow, is characterized by pain from the elbow to the wrist on the inside (medial side) of the elbow. The pain is caused by damage to the tendons that bend the wrist toward the palm. 
* You must be logged in to name and customize your collection. DESCRIPTION. Lateral epicondylitis, commonly known as tennis elbow, is a painful condition involving the tendons that attach to the bone on the outside (lateral) part of the elbow. Tendons anchor the muscle to bone. 
Click Image to Enlarge. Lateral epicondylitis, also known as tennis elbow, is characterized by pain on the outside (lateral side) of the elbow. The pain is caused by damage to the tendons that bend the wrist backward away from the palm. A tendon is a tough cord of tissue that connects muscles to bones. 
Lateral epicondylitis is a tendonitis also known as tennis elbow although the majority of people with lateral epicondylitis have never played tennis. The condition causes pain on the outside portion of the elbow over a bony prominence termed the lateral epicondyle. 
Tennis elbow or lateral epicondylitis is a condition in which the outer part of the elbow becomes sore and tender. Tennis elbow is an acute or chronic inflammation of the tendons that join the forearm muscles on the outside of the elbow (lateral epicondyle). 
Epicondylitis: Epicondylitis is an inflammation or damage to the area of an epicondyle of bone. An epicondyle is a projection of bone above a condyle (a rounded prominence at the end of a bone, usually where the bone connects to another bone) where ligaments and tendons are attached. Two common types of epicondylitis are tennis elbow and golfer's elbow. Tennis elbow is also known as lateral epicondylitis, which is an overuse injury to the area of the lateral (outside) epicondyle of the elbow end of the upper arm bone (humerus). Golfer's elbow (medial epicondylitis) is an overuse injury similar to tennis elbow, but in this case the damage occurs in the area of the medial (inside) epicondyle of the upper arm bone.
Epicondylitis is a type of musculoskeletal disorder that refers to an inflammation of an epicondyle. Types include: 1  Lateral epicondylitis, also known as tennis elbow. 
Tennis elbow is a type of tendinitis -- swelling of the tendons -- that causes pain in the elbow and arm. These tendons are bands of tough tissue that connect the muscles of your lower arm to the bone. Despite its name, you can still get tennis elbow even if you've never been near a tennis court. Tennis elbow is similar to another condition called golfer's elbow, which affects the tendons on the inside of the elbow. To diagnose your tennis elbow, your doctor will do a thorough exam. He or she will want you to flex your arm, wrist, and elbow to see where it hurts.