This sound a lot like eczema ! There is a form of eczema called dyshidrotic eczema which generally manifests as peeling of the skin on either the palms of the hands or between the fingers or the soles of the feet. Why is the skin on my hand peeling off? It isn't from a sunburn or anything, but some of the skin on the side of my hand has started to peel off.
Eczema, or atopic dermatitis, may also be a long-term condition affecting the skin. It occurs because of a hypersensitivity reaction (similar to an allergy), in which the skin reacts to triggers, such as dyes, fabrics, soaps, animals, and other irritants. Eczema is often also treated with a topical corticosteroid cream. In some cases, doctors may suggest over-the-counter creams. Other cases of eczema may require antibiotic creams or prescription oral medications. Some barrier creams may also be useful to protect skin from irritants and infections, allowing it to heal.
Many people do not know the technical differences between psoriasis and eczema, or atopic dermatitis. Recognizing a patch of skin that is inflamed, red, or peeling, as one of these conditions will dictate how you treat it. This image depicts psoriasis on the belly. The following photos will help give you an idea of the difference in appearances between psoriasis and eczema on different areas of the body. Eczema is often also treated with a topical corticosteroid cream. In some cases, doctors may suggest over-the-counter creams. Other cases of eczema may require antibiotic creams or prescription oral medications. Some barrier creams may also be useful to protect skin from irritants and infections, allowing it to heal.
Peeling skin can occur as a reaction to a number of inflammatory processes of the skin or damage to the skin. Sunburn is a classic example, but other conditions that can cause peeling skin include various forms of dermatitis, eczema, and certain infections. Burns of any degree of severity can result in peeling skin. Some types of medications, such as topical retinoids used for acne, can cause peeling skin. 
1 Seborrhoeic dermatitis or Seborrheic dermatitis ( cradle cap  in infants) is a condition sometimes classified as a form of eczema that is closely related to dandruff. 2  It causes dry or greasy peeling of the scalp, eyebrows, and face, and sometimes trunk. 3  The condition is harmless except in severe cases of cradle cap. The term eczema is also commonly used to describe atopic dermatitis also known as atopic eczema. In some languages, dermatitis and eczema are synonyms, while in other languages dermatitis implies an acute condition and eczema a chronic one. The cause of dermatitis is unclear.
The most common form of eczema is the itchy, rashy skin condition called atopic dermatitis. Unlike contact dermatitis, which can be blamed on a specific irritant or allergen, atopic eczema has no defined cause. 
Dyshidrotic eczema is often brought out by changes in the weather or by stress. Generally, it can be treated by good moisturizing of the skin and by application of a steroid cream to the peeling areas. Why is the skin on my hand peeling off? It isn't from a sunburn or anything, but some of the skin on the side of my hand has started to peel off.
A. Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever. No matter which part of the skin is affected, eczema is almost always itchy. Sometimes the itching will start before the rash appears, but when it does, the rash most commonly appears on the face, back of the knees, wrists, hands, or feet.
Dermatitis, also known as eczema, is inflammation of the skin. It is characterized by itchy, erythematous, vesicular, weeping, and crusting patches. The term eczema is also commonly used to describe atopic dermatitis also known as atopic eczema. In some languages, dermatitis and eczema are synonyms, while in other languages dermatitis implies an acute condition and eczema a chronic one. The cause of dermatitis is unclear.