You may not be able to take medication that contains acetaminophen. Oxycodone may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for. Keep the medication in a secure place where others cannot get to it. This medication can cause side effects that may impair your thinking or reactions.
Oxycodone/acetaminophen is a prescription medication used to treat moderate to severe pain. Oxycodone/acetaminophen belong to a group of drugs called analgesics, which work by altering the way the brain and nervous system senses pain. This medication comes in tablet, capsule, and oral (by mouth) solution forms and is taken up to 4 times a day, with or without food.
OXYCODONE/ACETAMINOPHEN-ORAL. OXYCODONE/ACETAMINOPHEN EXTENDED-RELEASE-ORAL. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection. 
Oxycodone is a narcotic medication used to relieve moderate to severe pain. OxyContin is a brand of timed-release oxycodone, made by Purdue Pharma, that works for up to 12 hours. A: Oxycodone is a narcotic pain reliever that is used to treat moderate to severe pain. This medication has a half-life of between 3 and 4.5 hours. This means that half of the dosage is eliminated from the body after 4 hours, and for each consecutive 4 hours another half of what is left over will be eliminated.
Descriptions. Oxycodone and acetaminophen combination is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Acetaminophen is used to relieve pain and reduce fever in patients. It does not become habit-forming when taken for a long time. But acetaminophen may cause other unwanted effects when taken in large doses, including liver damage. Oxycodone belongs to the group of medicines called narcotic analgesics (pain medicines).
Do not use this medication if you are allergic to acetaminophen (Tylenol) or oxycodone. Oxycodone may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for. Acetaminophen and oxycodone should never be given to another person, especially someone who has a history of drug abuse or addiction. Oxycodone may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for. Keep the medication in a secure place where others cannot get to it. This medication can cause side effects that may impair your thinking or reactions.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/2/2015. Percocet (oxycodone and acetaminophen) is a combination drug consisting of oxycodone (opioid drug type) and acetaminophen (analgesic and antipyretic drug type). Percocet is available in the generic form named oxycodone and acetaminophen. 
Oxycodone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of oxycodone. The combination of acetaminophen and oxycodone is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and oxycodone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Oxycodone is an opioid pain medication. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of oxycodone. Acetaminophen and oxycodone is a combination medicine used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and oxycodone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Oxycodone can slow or stop your breathing
Acetaminophen is a less potent pain reliever that increases the effects of oxycodone. The combination of acetaminophen and oxycodone is used to relieve moderate to severe pain. Acetaminophen and oxycodone may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 1  Precautions. Oxycodone may be habit-forming and should be used only by the person it was prescribed for. Keep the medication in a secure place where others cannot get to it. This medication can cause side effects that may impair your thinking or reactions.