Per diem expenses for truckers are expenses that are granted for truckers that live away from home during work. For example, meals are a per diem expense. Lodging and clothing might be acceptable as well, depending on the employer. Employers grant truckers a certain amount of per diem expenses each day, week or job. Per Diem Rates. The U.S. government publishes rates for per diem expenses each year. These rates are a guideline for self-employed truckers that helps them determine how much they can spend each day on per diem expenses and write off the expense.
The CONUS per diem rate for an area is actually three allowances: the lodging allowance, the meals allowance and the incidental expense allowance. Most of the CONUS (approximately 2600 counties) are covered by the standard CONUS per diem rate of $140 ($89 lodging, $51 meals and incidental expenses). In fiscal year (FY) 2016, there continue to be about 400 Non-Standard Areas (NSAs) that have per diem rates higher than the standard CONUS rat
For travel post-September 30, 2012, the IRS-approved per diem rate for high-cost areas is $242 (reflecting $177 for lodging and $65 for meals and incidental expenses). The IRS-approved per diem rate for all other areas is $163 (reflecting $111 for lodging and $52 for meals and incidental expenses). The $242/$163 amounts are unchanged from last year’s amounts. The IRS provides tables that identify the maximum per diem amounts for lodging and the maximum per diem rates for meals and incidental expenses in many localities. The IRS issued its 2013 per diem amounts in September 2012.
Regular federal per diem rate. The regular federal per diem rate is the highest amount that the federal government will pay to its employees for lodging, meal, and incidental expenses (or meal and incidental expenses only) while they are traveling away from home in a particular area. 
The per diem rate for meals as of 2011 is 80 percent of $59 per day in the continental United States and 80 percent of $65 per day if you travel to Canada or Mexico. The IRS requires you to keep track of your per diem expenses in order to receive the per diem deduction. A per diem is a rate given to employees or contractors to cover the daily expense of meals, lodging or another item. Every industry has different rates, and the trucking industry has a per diem meal rate set by the Internal Revenue Service.
Trucker Per Diem Rates. News. Prior to Nov,1, 2003 the per diem rate for meals was 65% of $40 per day. After Nov,1, 2003 the rate increased to 70% of $41 per day. The deductible portion of food or beverage expenses gradually increases for individuals during, or incident to, the period of duty away from home and subject to the hours of service limitations of the Department of Transportation (§ 274(n)(3)).
General Services Administration, if a trucker is allotted $56 in per diem expenses a day, that breaks down to about $9 for breakfast, $13 for lunch, $29 for dinner and $5 for incidental charges. Per Diem Rates. The U.S. government publishes rates for per diem expenses each year. These rates are a guideline for self-employed truckers that helps them determine how much they can spend each day on per diem expenses and write off the expense.
Beginning October 1, 2015, truck drivers will see a small pump in per diem pay. The current per diem rate for the transportation industry is $59 per day. On October 1, the per diem rate will increase to $63. For those traveling outside of the continental United States, the per diem rate will be $68. “The transportation industry has special rates for meals and incidental expenses. Beginning 10/1/15, that rate will be $63 within the continental US and $68 outside the continental US,” the IRS states.
1 If the city is not listed, but the county is, then the per diem rate is the rate for that entire county. 2  If the city and the county are not listed, then that area receives the standard CONUS location rate, which is currently $89 for lodging and $51 for meals and incidental expenses. 1 If the city or county you are looking for is not listed on the GSA per diem rate page, then the standard CONUS rate of $89 for lodging and $51 for meals applies.