Whitebait are tender and edible, and can be regarded as a delicacy. The entire fish is eaten including head, fins, bones, and guts. Some species make better eating than others, and the particular species that are marketed as whitebait varies in different parts of the world. Whitebait is the immature fry of fish, in this case sardines and anchovies fished on the Riviera. Whitebait is a collective term for the immature fry of fish, typically between 25 and 50 millimetres long. Such young fish often travel together in schools along the coast, and move into estuaries and sometimes up rivers where they can be easily caught with fine meshed fishing nets
More than just whitebait. Whitebait are the babies of up to six varieties of New Zealand native fish. According to the Department of Conservation (DOC) the three most common species caught are galaxiids: inanga, koaro and banded kokopu. 
As whitebait consists of immature fry of many important food species (such as herring, sprat, sardines, mackerel, bass and many others) it is not an ecologically viable foodstuff and in several countries strict controls on harvesting exist. Whitebait is the immature fry of fish, in this case sardines and anchovies fished on the Riviera. Whitebait is a collective term for the immature fry of fish, typically between 25 and 50 millimetres long. Such young fish often travel together in schools along the coast, and move into estuaries and sometimes up rivers where they can be easily caught with fine meshed fishing nets
Introduction. The whitebait fishing season for most of New Zealand opens on 15 August and runs until November 30. On the West Coast the whitebait season runs from 1 September until 14 November.
The word whitebait does not refer to a single species. It is a general term used in many countries to describe small freshwater fish that are tender and edible. In New Zealand it describes the juvenile forms (around 4–5 centimetres long) of five species of the fish family Galaxiidae. In spring, whitebait make their way upstream from the sea, swimming near the river’s edge. Large shoals are referred to as runs. Big runs often follow floods, a few days after the water clears – usually in the daytime on a rising tide.
A second-class whitebait is sold on the Auckland fish market, and this is obtained from the sea. It includes the young of pilchards and other marine fishes and also juvenile Retropinna. On the whole the name whitebait in New Zealand refers to the young of Galaxias attenuatus. Graham (1956) reported that ‘English whitebait is made up mostly of young sprats, mixed with the young of shad, herrings, sticklebacks, gobies and shrimps. In Japan the young sea perch are called whitebait, and in Germany the young of various sea fishes go under that name. In Italy it is the same, but in each case, the fish are of a bony nature and inferior to the New Zealand whitebait’
Whitebait are the juveniles of five species of galaxiidae, a family of fish confined to the Southern Hemisphere. These species are: 1  inanga (galaxias maculatus). 2  koaro (galaxias brevipinnis). 3  banded kokopu (galaxias fasciatus). 4  giant kokopu (galaxias argenteus). 5  shortjaw kōkopu (galaxias postvectis). 
Whitebait is a general term applied to young edible fish of many different species. Young herring are typically referred to as whitebait in most parts of Europe, while in New Zealand and Australia, whitebait are usually freshwater fish called galaxiids, or members of the genus Galaxiidae.