ARDEX 8+9™ Waterproofing Compound is a best in class, easy to use waterproofing compound for use in wet areas before the installation of tile to provide topside water protection in showers, pool de... 1:08. 
To use ARDEX FEATHER FINISH as an embossing filler, mix one part of ARDEX P 82 Part A with one part of ARDEX P 82 Part B by volume and blend to a uniform consistency. Add two parts of ARDEX FEATHER FINISH by volume and mix as above. For example, mix 1 cup (8 oz.) of ARDEX P 82 Part A with 1 cup of ARDEX P 82 Part B. Blend this to a uniform color and consistency, and then add 2 cups (16 oz.) of ARDEX FEATHER FINISH. Allow thorough drying such that the film of primer does not re-emulsify in water (approximately 1 to 3 hours) before proceeding with the second application of ARDEX P 51 diluted 1:1 with water. Allow thorough drying to a clear, thin film (min. 3 hours, max. 24 hours).
Welcome to the ARDEX Group The ARDEX Group. Vision. „The vision of the ARDEX Group is to be one of the world’s leading solution providers of high-performance specialist building materials“, says Mark Eslamlooy, CEO ARDEX Group and CEO of ARDEX Germany. Performance. 1  ARDEX is a system solution provider of high-performance specialist building materials. 1 ARDEX is a system solution provider of high-performance specialist building materials. 2  In close cooperation with our partners we commit ourselves to gold standard business practices to ensure mutual success and profitable growth.
All you have to do is mix up a small batch of ARDEX, fill the chip, sand it down to be level with the rest of the surface, and seal. If you get a bad scratch, sand it out with a fine grit sandpaper, and reseal! 16. ARDEX is a company that makes all sorts of concrete based products. The products that we use most often are a part of their micro-topping concrete mix. We use them to create the concrete look without the heaviness of a poured concrete and best of all, any homeowner can use ARDEX products with great success!
Yes, you just really have to scuff up the surface so that the ARDEX has something to adhere to. And remember, it’s not a good idea to do this if your tile is cracking. If you apply ARDEX to a cracked surface, it will eventually crack as well. 8. ARDEX is a company that makes all sorts of concrete based products. The products that we use most often are a part of their micro-topping concrete mix. We use them to create the concrete look without the heaviness of a poured concrete and best of all, any homeowner can use ARDEX products with great success!
ARDEX FEATHER FINISH® is formulated from a blend of Portland cement and other hydraulic cements that provides a smooth, permanent finish for a variety of substrates including sheet vinyl and VCT (vinyl composition tile). 
If you’re new to the blog and have no idea what ARDEX is, here’s the short answer. ARDEX is a company that makes all sorts of concrete based products. The products that we use most often are a part of their micro-topping concrete mix. We use them to create the concrete look without the heaviness of a poured concrete and best of all, any homeowner can use ARDEX products with great success!
For best results, mix with an ARDEX T-2 Ring Mixing Paddle and a 1/2” (12 mm) heavy-duty drill (min. 650 rpm). Mechanical mixing will produce a creamier, smoother consistency without the need for additional water. DO NOT OVERWATER! Additional water will weaken the compound and lower its strength. Allow thorough drying such that the film of primer does not re-emulsify in water (approximately 1 to 3 hours) before proceeding with the second application of ARDEX P 51 diluted 1:1 with water. Allow thorough drying to a clear, thin film (min. 3 hours, max. 24 hours).