His mother, Cedella (Malcolm), who was of African descent, was born in Jamaica, to Alberta Willoughby and Omeriah Malcolm. His father, Norval Sinclair Marley, was born in Clarendon, Jamaica, to Ellen Bloomfield and Albert Thomas Marley, who had English ancestry.
Bob’s son is musician Damian Marley. Bob’s paternal grandparents were Albert Thomas Marley (the son of Frederick Marley and Hannah Jane Tiltman) and Ellen Bloomfield (the daughter of Richard Bloomfield). Albert was English, born in South Weald, Brentwood, Essex, England, to parents from Rye, Sussex.
Bob Marley (Robert Nesta Marley February 6, 1945 - May 11, 1981) was a Jamaican reggae songwriter and musician born in Nine Mile, Jamaica, and the leader of a group called the … Wailers.
Ethnicity. With his mother being Afro-Jamaican, and his father being white, Bob Marley never understood his racial ethnicity. He came to realize that he was neither black nor white and it really didn’t matter to him. He said he wasn’t prejudice.
With his mother being Afro-Jamaican, and his father being white, Bob Marley never understood his racial ethnicity. He came to realize that he was neither black nor white and it really didn’t matter to him. He said he wasn’t prejudice.
Damian Marley. by ethnic on. Birth Name: Damian Robert Nesta Marley. Place of Birth: Kingston, Jamaica. Date of Birth: July 21, 1978. Ethnicity: *English, Afro-Jamaican (father) *Afro-Jamaican, English and Irish (mother). Damian Marley is a Jamaican reggae artist. His father was musician Bob Marley, who was Jamaican. His mother, Cindy Breakspeare (Cynthia Jean Cameron Breakspeare), Miss World 1975, is a jazz musician and model who was born in Canada and raised in Jamaica. Damian’s father was of English and Afro-Jamaican descent.
Ethnicity: English, Afro-Jamaican. Bob Marley was a legendary Jamaican reggae singer, songwriter, musician, and guitarist. He was the son of Cedella (Malcolm) and Norval Sinclair Marley. His parents were both born in Jamaica (his father in Clarendon).