Unfortunately, you cannot prevent it. Many cases can be treated or corrected with lens. There are so many reasons why people lose their sight. There are many illnesses that cause the eyes to go bad or weak. I have a 4 yr old grandson who has worn glasses since he was 2 yrs old. He has a brain dysfunction that affected his eyes and speech. But, thank God he can see fine with his glasses and he is so young he does not even realize he has a problem. I am not a doctor and cannot give you all the technical names of the problems that can cause people to lose their site but eye injury is one, cataracts if not taken care of can cause it.
Friends and family. Of course sight loss can have an impact on others in a family. You may be the parent of a child with a sight problem, or the partner of someone who has recently been diagnosed with sight loss and you don’t know where to turn. Just how much help you will need depends on how your vision has been affected, but whatever your sight loss, we can help. Action for Blind People is an expert national organisation, ensuring blind and partially sighted people receive practical support.
However, the consultant may not have had the time to explain to you the vast array of opportunity and support that is available, even if nothing more can be done for your sight. We have the time, the expertise and understand the life changes that people may need to make and can help them. Just how much help you will need depends on how your vision has been affected, but whatever your sight loss, we can help. Action for Blind People is an expert national organisation, ensuring blind and partially sighted people receive practical support.
People who are blind do dream. The dreams of people who have been blind from a very early age (called “congenital blindness”) tend to be different from those who are blind now but had sight before. Those who are congenitally blind often have dreams that include more instances of sounds. Therefore I think they dream. People that are born blind might dream, but not as people who lost their sight, because their memory isn't filled with visual data, thus the brain creates different type of dreams based on sound and touch.
Blindsight is the ability of people who are cortically blind due to lesions in their striate cortex, also known as primary visual cortex or V1, to respond to visual stimuli that they do not consciously see. 
(2). Who became blind due to any happening in life: These people see colors in their dreams but the intensity of the colors is associated with the time when they last seen the colors in their original life before being blind. Therefore I think they dream. People that are born blind might dream, but not as people who lost their sight, because their memory isn't filled with visual data, thus the brain creates different type of dreams based on sound and touch.
Well, people that lost their sight after some period before that, they already captured the colors from that their lens and registered them as data in their memory. As far as I know everybody knows that the sky is blue, and cherries are red, so, those people can dream though they are blind. Therefore I think they dream. People that are born blind might dream, but not as people who lost their sight, because their memory isn't filled with visual data, thus the brain creates different type of dreams based on sound and touch.
155 Why Children Lose Their Vision and What We Can Do Chapter 16 W hen people confront health problems like blindness, they often look for physical and medical causes. It usually happens to children who are between 6 months and 6 years old. Children under 6 months who only breastfeed usually get enough vitamin A from their mother’s milk. Signs: 1. First, a child has trouble seeing in the dark or does not want to play outside after dark.2.
Losing some or all of your sight can be very distressing and have a big effect on your life. People tell us that they struggle with a range of emotions from shock, anger, sadness and frustration, to depression and grief. This is quite normal and understandably coping with these emotions can be very difficult. Just how much help you will need depends on how your vision has been affected, but whatever your sight loss, we can help. Action for Blind People is an expert national organisation, ensuring blind and partially sighted people receive practical support.