Report Data Issue. To contact Cost Containment International, LLC, please visit c2intl.com. Company data is provided by Capital IQ. Please use this form to report any data issues. It also provides custom solutions and services, such as telecom and data, credit card processing, audits, water conservation, green saving tips, and energy ... As of January 15, 2014, Cost Containment International, LLC was acquired by Alternative Utility Services, Inc.
Alliance Cost Containment, LLC has had their Business Review viewed 10 time(s) over the last 40 days. Click to view where these inquiries originated. A BBB Accredited Business since. BBB has determined that Alliance Cost Containment, LLC meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public
Cost Containment International, LLC, an energy and sustainability consulting company, provides energy management and procurement services to small, medium, and large-sized commercial, industrial, and institutional customers in the United States. It also provides custom solutions and services, such as telecom and data, credit card processing, audits, water conservation, green saving tips, and energy ... As of January 15, 2014, Cost Containment International, LLC was acquired by Alternative Utility Services, Inc.
Our firm comprises a trusted team of experts, and business consultants and advisors providing the highest degree of professional services for cost containment solutions, safety, ergonomics, environmental, training and loss controls services. We are dedicated to developing our clients into informed decision makers. We pride ourselves on our ability to provide personal service to meet your business and individual requirements in these rapidly changing economic times. For additional information: Jody Ball email: jball@CostContainmentSolutions.com Telephone: 615-351-6173 Office Hours: 8:00am -5:00 pm weekdays cst.
Our firm provides National Cost Containment Solutions for Healthcare Claims, Workers' Compensation, Auto, and Liability claims for Self Insured's, Third Party Administrators and Insurance Companies. We provide a variety of services for individuals, self insured trust. We pride ourselves on our ability to provide personal service to meet your business and individual requirements in these rapidly changing economic times. For additional information: Jody Ball email: jball@CostContainmentSolutions.com Telephone: 615-351-6173 Office Hours: 8:00am -5:00 pm weekdays cst.
About ACC. Since 1992, ACC has provided its clients with expense reduction services that allow for-profit and not-for-profit organizations to maximize operating revenue by saving up to 40% in more than 35 common expense categories. And our work is guaranteed – we save you money or our services are free.e typically deliver savings of 10-40% with suppliers offering discounts and verify suppliers already offering a best-in-class price. 1  Soft Savings Through supplier consolidation, we can cut the number of sales calls received, bills processed and checks written. 2  This frees up staff time for more valuable uses.
Cost Containment Inc (established in 2005) now powered by iMedical, Inc. is a worldwide cost reduction corporation designed to lower Implant/Disposable & Capital costs for Hospitals and Surgery Centers by providing a medical supply overstock program involving hundreds of facilities. 