Another area of ethical concern is the nurse’s responsibility for ensuring that patients have access to care. The values associated with nursing practice include nurse advocacy, respect for humans and eliminating barriers to care. The fact that the patient is incarcerated is only a circumstance of his or her situation and does not, and should not, change how the nurse practices or how the nurse views the patient. Correctional nursing allows the nurse to practice the essence of nursing while recognizing that all patients have intrinsic value. Achieving and staying true to professional nursing values while practicing in the correctional setting can create a unique set of ethical, legal and professional issues for the nurs
Every profession has a code of ethics that outlines the ethical responsibilities of practicing as a member of that profession. A nurse must respect the dignity and value of patients and colleagues, and treat all persons equally regardless of personal attributes or medical condition. Related to this is the responsibility to always respect the patient's right to self-determination in her medical care.
Respect for Others. A nurse must respect the dignity and value of patients and colleagues, and treat all persons equally regardless of personal attributes or medical condition. Related to this is the responsibility to always respect the patient's right to self-determination in her medical care.
The Code stresses duties to the patient. This would mean that obligations in the first 2 categories would have at least prima facie priority. A full understanding of nursing care, the nurse's role, and the duties that follow from these, though, would include the obligations of the third category. 
Professional Responsibilities. A nurse also has a number of ethical responsibilities relating to the profession of nursing and her specialty. One key responsibility is to always strive to improve both health care environments and conditions of employment to maximize the quality of health care delivery. A nurse must respect the dignity and value of patients and colleagues, and treat all persons equally regardless of personal attributes or medical condition. Related to this is the responsibility to always respect the patient's right to self-determination in her medical care.
Code of Ethics for Nurses. Ethics is an integral part of the foundation of nursing. Nursing has a distinguished history of concern for the welfare of the sick, injured, and vulnerable and for social justice. This concern is embodied in the provision of nursing care to individuals and the community. The Code of Ethics for Nurses is available from the American Nurses Association at http://nursingworld.org/books/. Reference. American Nurses Association (ANA), (2001), Code of Ethics for Nurses, American Nurses Association, Washington, D.C.
1 Provides a succinct statement of the ethical values, obligations, and duties of every individual who enters the nursing profession. 2  Serves as the profession’s nonnegotiable ethical standard. 3  Expresses nursing’s own understanding of its commitment to society. The Code, consisting of nine provisions and the accompanying interpretive statements: 1 
End-of life care is another ethical concern for the correctional nurse. Patients die while incarcerated and the nurse has a role in helping the patient to die with dignity and comfort. In some prisons, nurse participation in execution may arise as an ethical issue. The fact that the patient is incarcerated is only a circumstance of his or her situation and does not, and should not, change how the nurse practices or how the nurse views the patient. Correctional nursing allows the nurse to practice the essence of nursing while recognizing that all patients have intrinsic value. Achieving and staying true to professional nursing values while practicing in the correctional setting can create a unique set of ethical, legal and professional issues for the nurs
^ m d. The American Nurses Association is proud to announce a completely updated Code of Ethics for Nurses with Interpretive Statements (The Code). This revision is the definitive framework for ethical analysis and decision-making for RNs across all practice levels, roles and settings. The Code, consisting of nine provisions and the accompanying interpretive statements: 1  Provides a succinct statement of the ethical values, obligations, and duties of every individual who enters the nursing profession.