Causes. Gas gangrene is most often caused by a bacterium called Clostridium perfringens. It also can be caused by group A streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, and Vibrio vulnificus. Clostridium is found nearly everywhere.
Gangrene is the death of body tissue. Gas gangrene, also known as clostridial myonecrosis, is a fast-spreading and potentially life-threatening form of gangrene caused by a bacterial infection. Causes of Gas Gangrene. Gas gangrene is caused by bacteria called Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) . In some cases, it can be caused by Group A Streptococcus. Gas gangrene generally occurs at a recent surgical or injury site. Rarely, it happens spontaneously, without apparent cause
A. A. Gangrene is a condition that occurs when body tissue dies. It is caused by a loss of blood supply due to an underlying illness, injury, and/or infection. Fingers, toes, and limbs are most often affected, but gangrene can also occur inside the body, damaging organs and muscles
Gas gangrene is commonly caused by infection with the bacterium Clostridium perfringens, which develops in an injury or surgical wound that's depleted of blood supply. The bacterial infection produces toxins that release gas — hence the name gas gangrene — and cause tissue death. Like wet gangrene, gas gangrene can be life-threatening. Internal gangrene. Gangrene affecting one or more of your organs, such as your intestines, gallbladder or appendix, is called internal gangrene.
Gas gangrene is caused by bacteria called Clostridia, which cause gas bubbles and toxins to develop inside the affected area. The resulting gases cause tissue death. Gas Gangrene. Gas gangrene is caused by bacteria called Clostridia, which cause gas bubbles and toxins to develop inside the affected area. The resulting gases cause tissue death. This type of gangrene is rare in the United States.
Gas gangrene (also known as clostridial myonecrosis and myonecrosis) is a bacterial infection that produces gas in tissues in gangrene. This deadly form of gangrene usually is caused by Clostridium perfringens bacteria. It is a medical emergency. Myonecrosis is a condition of necrotic damage, specific to muscle tissue.
Gas gangrene is a life-threatening infection of muscle tissue caused mainly by the anaerobic bacteria Clostridium perfringens and several other species of clostridia. Gas gangrene can develop after certain types of surgery or injuries. 
Description. Gas gangrene, or clostridial myonecrosis, is a bacterial disease caused by microorganisms belonging to the genus Clostridium. Gas gangrene is a toxin-induced infection characterized by necrosis of the infected area [2] . 