Cold Front to bring colder temperatures to much of the Plains and Midwest. A strong cold front is expected to push through the Plains Thursday morning and through the Midwest by Thursday night. Freeze warnings and frost advisories are in effect for portions of the Central Plains while critical fire weather conditions will be possible from Wyoming to South Dakota, Iowa and southwest Minnesota.
Evening: Showers early, becoming a steady rain late. Low 59F. Winds SSE at 10 to 20 mph. Chance of rain 80%. Rainfall near a quarter of an inch. 
A 20 percent chance of showers before 2am. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 57. Southwest wind around 10 mph. Severe storms and heavy rains possible for the southern Plains. A storm system in the West will produce showers and thunderstorms across portions of the southern Rockies and into the southern Plains on Wednesday. These storms may produce heavy rainfall resulting in flash flood concerns. Large hail and locally damaging winds will also be possible
Next Topic: Graupel. Freezing rain is a condition where precipitation which has fallen in the form of water droplets reaches temperatures which are below freezing and freezes upon coming into contact with surface objects. The result of this precipitation is a glaze of ice which can be damaging to plants and man-made structures. The Current National Weather Radar is shown below with a UTC Time (subtract 5 hours from UTC to get Eastern Time). The Current National Weather Forecast and National Weather Map are shown below
Annual Weather Summary: November 2015 to October 2016. Winter will be colder than normal, with below-normal precipitation and generally below-normal snowfall. The coldest periods will be in early to mid-December, late December, and early to mid-and mid-to late January and February. Buy Long Range Weather(Nov. 2015 - Oct. 2016). Complete 2016 Long Range Weather Forecast for the Lower Lakes Region, November 2015 to October 2016 includes week-by-week details.
Tonight. Low: 55°F. (13°C). A slight chance of showers between 11pm and 3am. Mostly cloudy, with a low around 55. Southwest wind 10 to 15 mph, with gusts as high as 20 mph. Chance of precipitation is 20%
News-October 16, 2015; 3:51 AM ET. Progressively colder air will lead to the first snowflakes and snowfall of the season, as well as the first freeze in parts of the Great Lakes, Northeast and neighboring Canada this weekend. 