Location. The Royal Lahaina Resort is located along a half-mile stretch of world-famous Kaanapali Beach on 27 lush tropical acres approximately 28 miles (50 minutes) northwest of Kahului Airport and 3 miles (10 minutes) south of the West Maui Airport. View a map of our Resort here. Getting to the Royal Lahaina Resort. The Royal Lahaina Resort is located along a half-mile stretch of world-famous Kaanapali Beach on 27 lush tropical acres approximately 28 miles (50 minutes) northwest of Kahului Airport and 3 miles (10 minutes) south of the West Maui Airport. View a map of our Resort here.
Kapalua-West is a mere 10- to 15-minute drive from Lahaina and the Kaanapali resorts. Simply drive south down the Honoapiilani Highway. There are no rental car companies serving Kapalua-West, but there is one – Dollar Rental Car – that operates out of Hana, on the south-eastern tip of the island. To get to Lahaina from the Hana airport, you’ll have to drive on parts of the scenic – and sometimes curvy and treacherous – Road to Hana. Arriving in Maui. To get in and out of Maui, most will come through the three airports on the island, Kahului Airport, Kapalua-West Maui Airport and the Hana Airport.
Ka`anapali is about 10 minutes' drive by car from Lahaina as well as the Kapalua-West Maui Airport and about 45 minutes' drive from Kahului Airport, the main airport on the island, where the vast majority of travelers arrive. 
Driving Directions to Kaanapali Alii from the Kahului Airport: From Kahului airport, follow highway signs to Hwy. 30 and drive to Lahaina Town (approximately 25 miles). Continue on Hwy. 30 past Lahaina Town for approximately 5 miles until you reach the Kaanapali Parkway intersection. Make a left turn onto Kaanapali Parkway into Kaanapali Beach Resort.
Aston Kaanapali Shores Resort is located 29.1 miles / 46.83 kilometers from Kahului Airport. To get to our hotel, follow these quick and easy directions starting from Kahului Airport. 1  Follow Lanui Circle out of Kahului Airport. 2  Lanui Circle becomes Keolani Place/HI-380. 3  Continue on HI-380. 
Maui Transportation. Flights: Kahului (OGG) is Maui's primary airport that’s some 30 miles from the Aston Mahana at Kaanapali. Smaller limited service facilities are located in West Maui between Kaanapali and Kapalua at (JHM), and in East Maui at Hana (HNM). 
Aston Kaanapali Shores is located on Maui's sunny west shore in north Kaanapali, 4 miles from historic Lahaina and within 5 miles of the championship golf courses of Kapalua and Kaanapali. 
Welcome to Kapalua Airport. Kapalua Airport is located on the west side of the Island of Maui a short distance from the resort destinations of Kaanapali and Lahaina. 
There is a shuttle that can take you from the airport to the Lahaina/Kaanapali area for under $10, though it takes more than an hour. If you’re driving your rental car, the distance from Kahului to Lahaina is about 30 miles. Take Route 380 West, and then turn left on Rt. 30 North, also known as the Honoapiilani Highway. Arriving in Maui. To get in and out of Maui, most will come through the three airports on the island, Kahului Airport, Kapalua-West Maui Airport and the Hana Airport.