Vertebrates have a segmented vertebral column and brain. Segmentation in biology refers to the division of some animal and plant body plans into a series of repetitive segments. This article focuses on the segmentation of animal body plans, specifically using the examples of the phyla Arthropoda, Chordata, and Annelida. Even within these phyla, different organisms have different mechanisms for segmenting the body. Segmentation of the body plan is important for allowing free movement and development of certain body parts. It also allows for regeneration in specific individuals
Animals with outer shells and segmented bodies are members of the  phylum arthrapoda. This phylum includes insects and chelicerae's  (spiders, millipedes, etc.). - Crab-Lobster-Yabby-Marron Most crustaceans have exoskeletons that cover bodies divided into segments. The arthropod body is encased in a hard structure called … an exoskeleton. The exoskeleton acts as an external skeleton and provides the animal with structural support and protection.
Annelida Phylum. The Annelida phylum consists of the segmented worms. They lack a backbone and have bodies divided up into many segments. This phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and feather duster worms. Some species are terrestrial, while others are found in marine environments. Animals in this phylum have segmented bodies. Most of the segments have the same internal organs. However, the forward and rear segments are slightly different. The forward segments have the mouth and brain. The rear segments have a growth area and an anus. Some annelids breathe through their skin. Others have gill
Annelid Characteristics. The fundamental characteristic of the phylum is the division of the body into a linear series of cylindrical segments, or metameres. Each metamere consists of a section of the body wall and a compartment of the body cavity with its internal organs. 
Animal phyla are classified according to certain criteria, including the type of coelom, symmetry, body plan, and presence of segmentation. Sponges (Porifera) have a primitive cellular level of organization and lack tissues and symmetry. They depend on a flow of water through the body to acquire food. 
By Phil Myers. The annelids include earthworms, polychaete worms, and leeches. All members of the group are to some extent segmented, in other words, made up of segments that are formed by subdivisions that partially transect the body cavity. Segmentation is also called metamerism. 
There are about 15,000 species in this phylum. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and marine worms known as polychaetes. Species in this phylum have metameric bodies. Metameric bodies are divided into segments called annuli. The annuli are covered in tiny hairs called setae. Setae help the worms move. Each segment contains parts of the organism's excretory, circulatory, reproductive, and nervous system! The head and the rear of the body is not segmented. The digestive system of species in this phylum runs the length of the body. Food is taken in at one end of the body and expelled at the other end. Annelids have two sets of muscles that help them mov
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting. Their versatility has enabled them to become the most species-rich members of all ecological guilds in most environments.
Animals with outer shells and segmented bodies are members of the  phylum arthrapoda. This phylum includes insects and chelicerae's  (spiders, millipedes, etc.). Anthropods is the largest and most diverse of all animals. These  animals have segmented bodies that are supported by an exoskeleton.  This group includes spiders, crustacea … ns, millipedes, and  centipedes.