Bird is the symbol of freedom and happiness. Birds can also be used to symbolize love and commitment (such as Mandarin ducks), or good luck and abundance (as in the case of the peacock). In feng shui applications, birds are powerful symbols of new opportunities that are always there for you even in times of adversity.
They mate for life and are considered loyal and devoted to their chosen partner. Because in symbolic feng shui level one works with images and symbols to represent the desired energy, the Mandarin ducks have become the perfect feng shui cure for love. That is, in Chinese culture.
The Mandarin ducks are the most popular, well known and widely used traditional feng shui cure for love. Note the word traditional, or classical feng shui, which means that a cure is based on culturally specific images, symbols and overall historical use.
Feng shui-wise, attention is usually paid to numbers, colors, as well as the symbolism of specific birds. Placement in the right direction is also necessary to bring prosperity and good luck.
Below is some of the most popular birds used as a symbol in feng shui applications. Butterfly. Butterfly symbolizes love, romance, happiness, immortality and rebirth. Image of butterflies is often used as a temporary cure by feng shui practitioners for any area of your life that needs change or transformation.
If you use the classical feng shui school, then place your ducks in the Southwest area of your home. If the BTB feng shui school is your choice, the focus on the upper right corner, or area of your home. Another good feng shui placement is in your personal lucky direction for love (which is based on your date of birth).
Overall bright yellow incolor, the ducks are always posed in a swimmingposition, without legs or feet, with wings and tailfeathers only slightly suggested. Facial featuresinclude blue or black eyes (with or without eye-lashes) and orange open-or-closed beaks.
The mandarin duck (in Chinese called ‘Yuan-yuang’) is one of the most desirable symbol used in feng shui application to improve relationships and love. These animals are recognized as symbols of a long-lasting and strong relationship.
Lucky Numbers in Chinese Culture. In China, certain numbers are considered lucky or unlucky is often related to the similarity between the pronunciation of the number and the sound byte of another word which carries a positive connotation.