Rating: 4.4 (93 votes). The First Reconstruction Act, also known as the Military Reconstruction Act, passed into law on March 2, 1867 over the veto of President Andrew Johnson. The act applied to all the ex-Confederate states in the South, except Tennessee who had already ratified the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Second Reconstruction Act of March 23, 1867 supplemented the First Reconstruction Act. The First Reconstruction Act left the Southern States in confusion to whose role it was to reinforce the legislation.
The Radical Republicans passed the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the First Reconstruction Act, the Second Reconstruction Act, the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871, the Civil Rights Act of 1875, and the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments.
The Acts. It was during this conflicted time that the Reconstruction Acts of 1867 were introduced, debated, and eventually passed within Congress but not without controversy. Products of Republican efforts, the purpose of these laws was to reshape the South and secure equal rights for African Americans.
Full Definition of RECONSTRUCTION. 1. a: the action of reconstructing: the state of being reconstructed b often capitalized: the reorganization and reestablishment of the seceded states in the Union after the American Civil War. 2. : something reconstructed. See reconstruction defined for English-language learners.
Reconstruction Acts of 1867-1868. Johnson s vetoes of these measures were overridden by Congress, repeating a familiar pattern. Nearly two years following the end of the Civil War, Congress finally forged a complete plan for reconstruction.
Instructor: Lucia Reyes. This lesson will describe the Reconstruction Acts of 1867, including the historical context in which they were formed, their content and their impact on post-Civil War America.
Under the terms of the Reconstruction Acts, new state constitutions were written in the South. By Aug., 1868, six states (Arkansas, North Carolina, South Carolina, Louisiana, Alabama, and Florida) had been readmitted to the Union, having ratified the Fourteenth Amendment as required by the first Reconstruction Act.
Under the terms of the Reconstruction Acts, new state constitutions were written in the South. By Aug., 1868, six states (Arkansas, North Carolina, South Carolina, Louisiana, Alabama, and Florida) had been readmitted to the Union, having ratified the Fourteenth Amendment as required by the first Reconstruction Act.