The skin is important as a barrier against pathogens, and contains nerve endings which allow for senses such as; heat, touch and pressure. It is also important for evaporation … , water resistance and absorption. 3 people found this useful. Skin integrity maintenance is one of the most important aspects of  surgery. Skin is the first and most prominent line of defense  against infection and the first aspect of … the body to heal. If the  skin does not heal properly the rest of the body will not be able  to heal properly.
Thermoregulation is the ability of an organism to keep its body temperature within certain boundaries, even when the surrounding temperature is very different. As in other mammals, thermoregulation is an important aspect of human homeostasis. Most body heat is generated in the deep organs, especially the liver, brain, and heart, and in contraction of skeletal muscles. Humans have been able to adapt to a great diversity of climates, including hot humid and hot arid.
The skin is susceptible to cancer because it is the outermost layer of the human body, and is constantly exposed to sunlight (well, almost). Sunlight contains Ultravio … let rays (a form of radiation, as with all light), that cause damage to the nucleus in the skin cells. Skin integrity maintenance is one of the most important aspects of  surgery. Skin is the first and most prominent line of defense  against infection and the first aspect of … the body to heal. If the  skin does not heal properly the rest of the body will not be able  to heal properly.
In order to maintain a constant body temperature as is possible in homeotherms, heat must be transported to the surface of the skin via the blood and released into the environment via conduction, convection, radiation or the evaporation of sweat. If blood flow to the dermis increases, however, heat loss through the skin increases as the temperature difference between the skin and the environment also increases. The insulation provided by the adipose tissue can therefore be somewhat bypassed if the blood flow to the dermis is great enough.
A section of your brain called the hypothalamus controls thermoregulation. It issues instructions to your muscles, organs, glands, and nervous system when it senses your core internal temperature is becoming too low or too high. Many factors can affect your body’s temperature. The state of having an even internal temperature is called homeostasis. All thermoregulation mechanisms are designed to return the body to homeostasis. A healthy, safe temperature has a very narrow window – between 98°F (37°C) and 100°F (37.8°C).
The skin is the major organ in thermoregulation. There are four processes called: conduction … , convection, evaporation, and radiation. Conduction occurs when heat moves from an area of higher temperature to an area of lower temperature similar to a concentration gradient. Skin integrity maintenance is one of the most important aspects of  surgery. Skin is the first and most prominent line of defense  against infection and the first aspect of … the body to heal. If the  skin does not heal properly the rest of the body will not be able  to heal properly.
The internal thermoregulation process is one aspect of homeostasis: a state of dynamic stability in an organism's internal conditions, maintained far from equilibrium with its environment (the study of such processes in zoology has been called physiological or physiological ecology). As in other mammals, thermoregulation is an important aspect of human homeostasis. Most body heat is generated in the deep organs, especially the liver, brain, and heart, and in contraction of skeletal muscles. Humans have been able to adapt to a great diversity of climates, including hot humid and hot arid.
Thermoregulation is the process that allows the human body to maintain its core internal temperature. The state of having an even internal temperature is called homeostasis. All thermoregulation mechanisms are designed to return the body to homeostasis. A healthy, safe temperature has a very narrow window – between 98°F (37°C) and 100°F (37.8°C).
Why Thermoregulation is important: The temperature of an organism is important because in order for its metabolic processes to work at its optimal rate its temperature cannot become too high or the enzymes denotate, and not too low or it will slow down reaction. Conduction is the transfer of heat between objects that are in direct contact with each other. For instance, if a person sits on the cold ground, heat moves from the body to the cold ground. Convection is the transfer of heat by the movement of air or liquid moving past the body.