Epergne (/ɨˈpɜrn/ or /eɪˈpɛərn/) is a type of table centerpiece, usually made of silver, but may be made of any metal or glass or porcelain. From this center bowl radiate branches supporting small baskets, dishes, or candleholders. There may be between two and seven branches. Epergnes were traditionally made from silver, however from around the start of the 20th century glass was also employed.
Lastly, there is a small epergne, which has a bowl diameter of slightly less than 8 inches, and is designed to hold horns with a base diameter of 1/2. These are longer horns than are used with the Mini, as they will be 7 1/2 to 8 in length. Most of Westmorelands epergnes have the letter W cast into the bottom of the bowl. Collecting these pieces of art glass is a hobby in itself. Some of them are quite scarce and difficult to find, especially in superb conditioon; as, the lips and tips of the horns tend to chip easily.
The Epergne as a centerpiece, was and is, a wonderful invention. There is nothing easier in the world to arrange flowers in, than an Epergne. A small amount of flowers, makes a vast arrangement. Fruit, candy, holiday decorations and other objects ,can be used along with flowers. The Webster Dictionary defines, Epergne as, A ornamental stand, usually made of glass or silver, holding, vase shaped dishes, trumpets or trays,used as a decorative centerpiece for serving sweetmeats,fruit,cakes,candy or flowers. This is a pretty clear picture of what an Epergne i
Victorian Epergne-Pronounced-E-purn. The Webster Dictionary defines, Epergne as, A ornamental stand, usually made of glass or silver, holding, vase shaped dishes, trumpets or trays,used as a decorative centerpiece for serving sweetmeats,fruit,cakes,candy or flowers. This is a pretty clear picture of what an Epergne is
Design [edit]. An epergne generally has a large central bowl or basket sitting on three to five feet. From this center bowl radiate branches supporting small baskets, dishes, or candleholders. There may be between two and seven branches. Epergnes were traditionally made from silver, however from around the start of the 20th century glass was also employed.
1 The epergne, or centrepiece, enjoyed popularity in the 18th century. 2  The consignment consisted of costly goods, including epergnes, table and dessert services and ornamental figures. 
There in the center of the dining room table, framed by two Corinthian column candlesticks with leaf-clad bypass branches, was a Georgian epergne. Its shell feet and foliate scroll legs rose to support a wide open skirt of garland swags. A new emphasis on decorating the table led to the development of the centerpiece. The earliest ancestor of the epergne was the surtout, a center tray holding casters, salts, oil bottles, etc., made in silver, silver-gilt, gilt bronze, ceramic, and combinations thereof.
Definition of EPERGNE. : an often ornate tiered centerpiece consisting typically of a frame of wrought metal (as silver or gold) bearing dishes, vases, or candle holders or a combination of these. ADVERTISEMENT. probably from French epargne épargne. saving Tweet. : an often ornate tiered centerpiece consisting typically of a frame of wrought metal (as silver or gold) bearing dishes, vases, or candle holders or a combination of these.