1 Plural: biological determinisms. 2  Social determinism is the opposite of biological determinism, but both theories imply a lack of individual control. 3  Biological determinism has been used to explain crime, mental illness, patriarchy, and poverty or to defend eugenics and Social Darwinism.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: biological determinism (Noun). The interpretation of humans and human life from a strictly biological point of view. biological determinism (Noun). The hypothesis that biological factors such as an organism's genes (as opposed to social or environmental factors) determine psychological and behavioural traits.
Biological determinism refers to the idea that all human behavior is innate, determined by genes, brain size, or other biological attributes. This theory stands in contrast to the notion that human behavior is determined by culture or other social forces.
1 Social determinism is the opposite of biological determinism, but both theories imply a lack of individual control. 2  Biological determinism has been used to explain crime, mental illness, patriarchy, and poverty or to defend eugenics and Social Darwinism. 3  Not to be confused with biological reductionism.
Biological determinism. Biological determination is the interpretation of humans and human life from a strictly biological point of view, and it is closely related to genetic
Usage Notes: 1  Plural: biological determinisms. 2  Social determinism is the opposite of biological determinism, but both theories imply a lack of individual control. 3  Biological determinism has been used to explain crime, mental illness, patriarchy, and poverty or to defend eugenics and Social Darwinism.
Similarly, a variant of biological determinism might consider non-innate biological factors, such as the biological aspects of an organism's environment, to have a lesser effect on the organism's behaviour than innate biological factors.
Biological determinism is a term used in some literature to describe the belief that human behavior is controlled solely by an individual's genes or some component of physiology.