Origin-Hebrew. Nine men have this name in the Bible. Simon was the original name of the apostle Peter.Also, the name of one of the legal brothers of Jesus Christ. Simon of Cyrene was chosen to help bear the cross on which Jesus was crucified. 
[ 2 syll. si-mon, sim-on ] The baby boy name Simon is pronounced as S AY-MahN in English, Siy-M AO N in French, or Z IY-MaoN in German †. Simon is used chiefly in the English, French, German, and Spanish languages, and its origin is Hebrew. The name is of the meaning he who hears, God has heard. A biblical name, it is derived from the element 'shama' which means to hear. Shimon (Hebrew) and Simeon (Hebrew) are older forms of Simon. 
Meaning of Simon. English name. In English, the name Simon means-Variant of a Hebrew name meaning hear; listen. In the bible Simon was the name of two apostles including Simon Peter.. Other origins for the name Simon include-English, Israeli, Hebrew.The name Simon is most often used as a boy name or male name. 
In the Bible, Simon was the second son of Jacob and Leah and the original name of Saint Peter, as well as the name of several New Testament figures. Historically, Simon Bolivar is known as The Liberator of Latin America. 
Simon /si-mon/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced SYE-mun. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Simon is to hear, listen; reputation. Biblical: Simon was the name of two of the apostles, including Simon Peter. A common name from the Middle Ages through the 18th century. Orchestra conductor Simon Rattle; Latin American freedom fighter Simon Bolivar.
Simon is the English form of the Hebrew name Simeon which means ‘hearkening’. The name is borne by several characters in the Bible, in both the Old and New Testaments. Simeon was Jacob’s second-born son in Genesis, one of the eleven brothers of Joseph, and the one most responsible for selling him into slavery. 
Greek Meaning: The name Simon is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Simon is: Snub-nosed. Can also be a variant of a Hebrew name meaning 'hear; listen.' In the bible Simon was the name of two apostles including Simon Peter. Hebrew Meaning: The name Simon is a Hebrew baby name. 
From σιμων (Simon) , the New Testament Greek form of the Hebrew name שִׁמְעוֹן (Shim'on) which meant he has heard. This was the name of several biblical characters, including the man who carried the cross for Jesus. However, the most important person of this name in the New Testament was the apostle Simon, also known as Peter (a name given to him by Jesus). Because of him, this name has been common in the Christian world.
Simon is a common name, from Hebrew שִׁמְעוֹן Šimʻôn, šimʻôn Meaning (He) god has.. Heard some authors consider it a Classical greek. Name commentators on The New testament question the origin of the, name assuming that it can be either a hellenised form of The Hebrew'shim, on or a Real greek. name 
The name Simon in the Bible. The name Simon is the Hellenized version of the name Simeon (in Greek: συμεων; in Hebrew: שמעון) and there are nine Simons mentioned in the New Testament: 1  One of the two first disciples of Jesus, later mostly known as Peter (Matthew 4:18). The Greek name Simon is an adjusted version of the name Simeon, and that name comes from the common Hebrew verb שמע (shama'), meaning to hear: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: שמע.