Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place flour in a shallow plate or bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. 3  Put the bread crumbs in another shallow plate or bowl and beat the eggs in another bowl. 1 Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. 4  Remove from oven and drain on paper towels
Preheat the oven to 425 degrees. Place a rack in a roasting pan or on a baking sheet. Rinse the chicken in cold water; pat dry. In a wide bowl or on a plate, season the flour with salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Dredge each chicken piece through the flour so it's fully coated, tap against the bowl to shake off excess flour and set aside. Discard the flour.
1 If your breading is flour, bake the chicken in the prepared oven for 50 minutes, then turn over and cook for an additional 30 minutes. 2  The chicken is done when it reaches a minimum internal temperature of 165F (according to the USDA safety facts) and stays at that temperature for at least 10 seconds. It's so easy to cook! 1  Preheat the oven to 400F. 2  Lightly grease a baking dish. 3  Arrange your breaded chicken pieces in the dish. 4  The dish should be large enough to hold all your chicken pieces without overcrowding them. 5  If they're too crowded, they won't brown evenly.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place flour in a shallow plate or bowl and season with salt and pepper to taste. 3  Dredge the chicken piece by piece in the flour, then the egg, then the bread crumbs, until all pieces are coated. 1 Pour the oil into a 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Add the chicken to the dish and sprinkle with paprika to taste. 3  Bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes, then turn pieces over and bake for another 30 minutes. 4  Remove from oven and drain on paper towels
Preheat the oven to 425째 F (220째 C/Gas 7). In a pie pan or a wide, shallow bowl combine flour, paprika, salt and pepper. Put the chicken in the flour mixture, turning to coat thoroughly. Or combine the flour and seasonings in a paper bag or plastic food storage bag. Add chicken pieces a few at a time; shake gently to coat. Put butter in a shallow baking pan; place it in the preheated oven. When the butter has melted, arrange chicken in the baking pan in a single layer, skin side down. Bake for 30 minutes; turn and bake 15 minutes longer, or until chicken is tender and done
Arrange the chicken pieces on the rack and place in the hot oven. Cook for 15 to 20 minutes, lower the heat to 375 degrees and cook for another 25 to 30 minutes, until cooked through and crispy. The juices should run clear when the meat is pierced with a knife. Serve with Easy Greens. Rinse the chicken in cold water; pat dry. In a wide bowl or on a plate, season the flour with salt and 1/4 teaspoon pepper. Dredge each chicken piece through the flour so it's fully coated, tap against the bowl to shake off excess flour and set aside. Discard the flour.
1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Place chicken in a roasting pan, and season generously inside and out with salt and pepper. 3  Sprinkle inside and out with onion powder. 4  Place 3 tablespoons margarine in the chicken cavity. 5  Arrange dollops of the remaining margarine around the chicken's exterior. Cook. Ready In. 1 
1 Place the chicken pieces in a large bowl and pour the buttermilk over them. 2  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. 3  Preheat the oven to 350째F degrees. 4  Combine the flour, salt, and pepper in a large bowl. 5  Take the chicken out of the buttermilk and coat each piece thoroughly with the flour mixture. Directions. 1  Place the chicken pieces in a large bowl and pour the buttermilk over them. 2  Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate overnight. 3  Preheat the oven to 350째F degrees. 4  Combine the flour, salt, and pepper in a large bowl.