From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bacillus megaterium is a rod-like, Gram-positive, mainly aerobic spore forming bacterium found in widely diverse habitats. With a cell length of up to 4 µm and a diameter of 1.5 µm, B. megaterium is amongst the biggest known bacteria. The cells often occur in pairs and chains, where the cells are joined together by polysaccharides on the cell walls. In the 1960s, prior to the development of Bacillus subtilis, B. megaterium was the main model organism among Gram-positive bacteria for intensive studies on biochemistry, sporulation and bacteriophages.
Bacillus megaterium is a rod-like, Gram-positive, mainly aerobic spore forming bacterium found in widely diverse habitats. The cells often occur in pairs and chains, where the cells are joined together by polysaccharides on the cell walls. In the 1960s, prior to the development of Bacillus subtilis, B. megaterium was the main model organism among Gram-positive bacteria for intensive studies on biochemistry, sporulation and bacteriophages.
Description and significance. Bacillus megaterium is a gram positive, endospore forming, rod shaped bacteria. It is considered aerobic. It is found in soil and considered a saprophyte. Bacillus megaterium is latin for the big beast because it is an extremely large bacteria, it is about 100 times as large as E. coli. Due to its immense size, about 60 micrometers cubed, B. megaterium has been used to study structure, protein localization and membranes of bacteria since the 1950’s. One strain, QM B1551, is still used to produce the antigen for HIV Diagnostic Kits. The biotechnological study of the Bacillus megaterium provides a plethora of different proteins that they are able to employ in important medical, scientific and industrial advances.
Bacillus megaterium is a prokaryotic cell, lacking membrane-bound organelles. It is a Gram-positive, rod-shaped and found with other bacillus megaterium organisms. It is motile, with the use of its flagella. The cell wall, has large amounts of peptidoglycan. The flow of energy in cellular respiration is considered aerobic, but may undergo anaerobic conditions. 
Bacillus megaterium is a gram positive, spore producing bacteria. It is a Eubacteria and is found in the soil. It has a rod shape and is one of the largest Eubacteria. Colonies form in chains due to sticky polysaccharides on the cell wall. It is very important in the biotech industry due to its size and its' enzyme and cloning abilities.
Bacillus megaterium is a gram positive, endospore forming, rod shaped bacteria. It is considered aerobic. It is found in soil and considered a saprophyte. One strain, QM B1551, is still used to produce the antigen for HIV Diagnostic Kits. The biotechnological study of the Bacillus megaterium provides a plethora of different proteins that they are able to employ in important medical, scientific and industrial advances.
B. megaterium has often been used in the laboratory, and is used as an industrial organism that is able to produce a variety of proteins and sources of bioremediation. Bacillus megaterium is a good source of industrial proteins because it is both a desirable cloning host and produces a large variation of enzymes. One strain, QM B1551, is still used to produce the antigen for HIV Diagnostic Kits. The biotechnological study of the Bacillus megaterium provides a plethora of different proteins that they are able to employ in important medical, scientific and industrial advances.