The dominant ethnic group is of Tibetan / Tibeto-Burman ancestry. Credit: Babasteve. Dominant group is a term at the semantic level of entity regarding generalness. Within the subject area of ethnicity, a dominant group is an ethnic entity like a sociologist, psychologist, or the Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies. 1 Source hypothesis: dominant group is a source within each field where a primary author of original research uses the term. 2  Term hypothesis: dominant group is a significant term that may require a 'rigorous definition' or application and verification of an empirical definition.
Correspondence between genetic clusters in a population (such as the current US population) and self-identified race or ethnic groups does not mean that such a cluster (or group) corresponds to only one ethnic group. Research in genetics offers a means to classify humans which is more precise than broad phenotypically based racial categories, given that genetics can provide a much more complex analysis of individual genetic makeup and geographic ancestry, than self identified membership of a racial category.
Definition. (genetics). (1) (Of, or pertaining to) An allele or a gene that is expressed in an organism ’s phenotype, masking the effect of the recessive allele or gene when present. (2) (Of, or pertaining to) An organism that expresses the dominant gene (or allele). 
Dominance is not inherent to an allele. It is a relationship between alleles; one allele can be dominant over a second allele, recessive to a third allele, and codominant to a fourth. Also, an allele may be dominant for a particular aspect of phenotype but not for other aspects influenced by the same gene.
Dominant: A genetic trait is considered dominant if it is expressed in a person who has only one copy of that gene. (In genetic terms, a dominant trait is one that is phenotypically expressed in heterozygotes). A dominant trait is opposed to a recessive trait which is expressed only when two copies of the gene are present. (In genetic terms, a recessive trait is one that is phenotypically expressed only in homozygotes). Examples of dominant disorders include: 1  Achondroplasia (a common form of dwarfism with short arms and legs), 
co·dom·i·nant. adj. 1. Of or relating to two alleles of a gene that are both fully expressed in a heterozygote. 2. Being one of two or more of the most common or important species in an ecological community and influencing the presence and type of other species in the community.
The relationship between race and genetics is relevant to the controversy concerning race classification. In everyday life many societies classify populations into groups based on phenotypical traits and impressions of probable geographic ancestry and socio-economic status-these are the groups we tend to call races. Research in genetics offers a means to classify humans which is more precise than broad phenotypically based racial categories, given that genetics can provide a much more complex analysis of individual genetic makeup and geographic ancestry, than self identified membership of a racial category.
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. It is a relationship between alleles; one allele can be dominant over a second allele, recessive to a third allele, and codominant to a fourth. Also, an allele may be dominant for a particular aspect of phenotype but not for other aspects influenced by the same gene.
dominant gene one that produces an effect (the phenotype) in the organism regardless of the state of the corresponding allele. An example of a trait determined by a dominant gene is brown eye color. See also heredity. histocompatibility gene one that determines the specificity of tissue antigenicity (hla antigens) and thus the compatibility of donor and recipient in tissue transplantation and blood transfusion. When both pairs of an allele are either dominant or recessive, the individual is said to be homozygous for the traits coded by the gene. If the alleles differ (one dominant and one recessive), the individual is heterozygous. See: illustration; chromosome; DNA; RNA.