Pilonidal disease is a chronic infection of the skin in the region of the buttock crease (Figure 1). The condition results from a reaction to hairs embedded in the skin, commonly occurring in the cleft between the buttocks. The disease is more common in men than women and frequently occurs between puberty and age 40. It is also common in obese people and those with thick, stiff body hair. Figure 1: Pilonidal disease is a chronic skin infection in the buttock crease area.
Pilonidal disease is not a cyst (an epithelial-lined sac), it is an abscess (a cavity filled with infected fluid and/or debris). The fluid, if present, is infected fluid called purulent material or pus, and the debris is usually loose hair. Pilonidal disease affects a very specific area of the body called the natal cleft. The natal cleft is the 2-3 inch valley under the tailbone that is hidden by one’s buttock cheeks when standing. It is bracketed above by the coccyx (tailbone), and below by the anus. Formation of abscesses.
Pilonidal (say py-luh-NY-dul) disease is a chronic skin infection in the crease between the buttocks. People with this condition have one or more cysts in that area that tend to get inflamed and infected. A pilonidal cyst may look like a small dimple (called a pit or sinus). 
The causes of pilonidal disease are not completely known. It is believed to be caused by hairs becoming embedded into the skin. The ingrown hairs cause the body to react by forming a pit and causing inflammation. During World War II, pilonidal disease was often called Jeep driver's disease.. It is more common in people who sit often, such as truck drivers. Wearing tight clothing can also worsen the condition.
Pilonidal disease is a chronic infection of the skin in the region of the buttock crease (Figure 1). The condition results from a reaction to hairs embedded in the skin, commonly occurring in the cleft between the buttocks. The disease is more common in men than women and frequently occurs between puberty and age 40. 
Pilonidal disease is an infection in the crease of a person’s buttocks, from the bottom of the spine to the anus. Pilonidal disease is a common condition, but one often not discussed due to embarrassment. During World War II, pilonidal disease was often called Jeep driver's disease.. It is more common in people who sit often, such as truck drivers. Wearing tight clothing can also worsen the condition.
A pilonidal sinus (PNS) is a small cyst or abscess that occurs in the cleft at the top of the buttocks. It can cause severe pain and often becomes infected. If it becomes infected, it may exude pus and blood and emit a foul smell. A pilonidal sinus is a condition that mostly affects men and is common in young adults. 
Pilonidal (say py-luh-NY-dul) disease is a chronic skin infection in the crease between the buttocks. People with this condition have one or more cysts in that area that tend to get inflamed and infected. A pilonidal cyst may look like a small dimple (called a pit or  sinus ). Hair may stick out from it. Pilonidal disease often has no symptoms. If a cyst gets infected (called an abscess), you may have: 1  Redness or swelling. 2  Pus or blood draining from the abscess. 3  Pain when you walk or sit.
Symptoms of pilonidal disease. Pilonidal disease can cause a variety of symptoms which may happen all the time, may come and go, may be mild, or may be severe. These symptoms include: 1  Pain/discomfort or swelling above the anus or near the tailbone that comes and goes. Pilonidal disease affects a very specific area of the body called the natal cleft. The natal cleft is the 2-3 inch valley under the tailbone that is hidden by one’s buttock cheeks when standing. It is bracketed above by the coccyx (tailbone), and below by the anus. Formation of abscesses.