Arabic grammar (Arabic: النحو العربي ‎ an-naḥw al-‘arabī or قواعد اللغة العربية qawā‘id al-lughah al-‘arabīyah) is the grammar of the Arabic language. Arabic is a Semitic language and its grammar has many similarities with the grammar of other Semitic languages. 
Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
Notice that the meaning connoted by this function of al-is indefinite, which is in stark contrast with the primary function of the definite article. Because of this meaning, the noun following al-will be grammatically indefinite and one may, for example, modify the noun without the use of a relative pronoun. In modern Arabic, however, this type of al-is largely idiomatic. That is to say, names traditionally prefixed with al-are kept as such and names without al-are also kept as such; the connotation of this al-is ignored.
Only here it does not appear first, but second. The لعف (verb) َلِ ِسَ ك, appearing first, is the descriptive part and therefore the دَنسُم .We see there is no consistent order in which they must appear. Subject and predicate do not mean first and second. They mean primary and descriptive. Appendix A – Expressiveness of the Arabic Language word that we determine whether that word is being used in the sentence as a subject of the verb, an object, or whether the word is in the possessive case.
Al-is often used in words to indicate the presence of something. For example, اليوم “al-yawm” means ‘this day’ i.e. ‘today’. In modern Arabic, this function is largely idiomatic and does not carry over to new words. In modern Arabic, however, this type of al-is largely idiomatic. That is to say, names traditionally prefixed with al-are kept as such and names without al-are also kept as such; the connotation of this al-is ignored.
The difference between them is in the ending of the verb ‘ta’kul’ which means to eat. In the first sentence ‘ta’kul’ ends with a dummah. In the second sentence the verb ‘ta’kul ends with a sukuun. In the third sentence however, the last letter of ‘ta’kul’ ends with a fathah. If someone was to pronounce the ‘waw’ with a fathah instead of a kasrah the word would mean ‘al-musaawar’-the fashioned one (the one fashioned by another). Of course the ignorant one making this mistake would be excused but this simply shows you the importance of sarf in the Arabic language. III.
Al- (Arabic: ال ‎, also transliterated as el-as pronounced in varieties of Arabic) is the definite article in the Arabic language; a particle (ḥarf) whose function is to render the noun on which it is prefixed definite. In modern Arabic, however, this type of al-is largely idiomatic. That is to say, names traditionally prefixed with al-are kept as such and names without al-are also kept as such; the connotation of this al-is ignored.
The literal meaning of the word nahw is “way” or “manner,” signifying the way language is used by its native speakers. One of the earliest sciences developed by Muslims, its origins are usually traced back to Abul Aswad al-Duali, who is said to have organized the rules of Arabic grammar at the request of Ali. Al-Sibawayh 's Kitab fil-nahw, however, is considered to be the first authoritative text of the field. Arabic grammar is usually divided into two major parts: sarf or tasrif, the conjugation of verbs, and nahw or irab, modulations of words and declensions. The Baghdad and Basra schools of grammar are well known for their differences concerning Arabic syntax, semantics, and philosophy of language
The sciences of Arabic are in fact twelve in number. However the sciences that are the most important for the understanding of the qur’an and sunnah are three: I. Nahw: It is most often translated as ‘grammar’. Nahw is a study of the language and the various rules governing the words as they appear in a sentence. For example I will now mention to you three sentences and discuss the difference between them please pay close attention. If someone was to pronounce the ‘waw’ with a fathah instead of a kasrah the word would mean ‘al-musaawar’-the fashioned one (the one fashioned by another). Of course the ignorant one making this mistake would be excused but this simply shows you the importance of sarf in the Arabic language. III.
Muqaddimah – Tafsir Nizam-ul-Quran – Determining the Addressees and the Addressors. Muslims unanimously hold that the Holy Qur’ān is the word of God revealed to the Prophet Muhammad (sws). This, however, does not mean that all that has been discussed in the Book has been addressed by God alone. A little deliberation shows that the basic purpose of the rukū‘ division is to mark a thematic shift. Those who marked the rukū‘ s have indeed intended to highlight the thematic shifts in the text and have tried to mark such thematic shifts by putting the sign ع.