Thalassemia. Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder that affects the production of hemoglobin. Normal adult hemoglobin is made up of 4 protein chains. There are 2 alpha chains and 2 beta chains. There are various degrees of severity of thalassemia that corresponds to the genetic coding for these alpha and beta chains. Thalassemia is a genetic blood disorder that affects the production of hemoglobin. Normal adult hemoglobin is made up of 4 protein chains. There are 2 alpha chains and 2 beta chains
The thalassemias are a group of genetic (inherited) blood disorders that share in common one feature, the defective production of hemoglobin, the protein that enables red blood cells to carry and deliver oxygen. There are many different mechanisms of defective hemoglobin synthesis and, hence, many types of thalassemia. However, persons with thalassemia minor have a normal blood iron level (unless they are iron deficient for other reasons). No treatment is necessary for thalassemia minor. In particular, iron is neither necessary nor advised.
Definition. Thalassemia (thal-uh-SEE-me-uh) is an inherited blood disorder characterized by less hemoglobin and fewer red blood cells in your body than normal. Several types of thalassemia exist, including alpha-thalassemia, beta-thalassemia intermedia, Cooley's anemia and Mediterranean anemia. 
Thalassemia is a blood disorder passed down through families (inherited) in which the body makes an abnormal form of hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The disorder results in excessive destruction of red blood cells, which leads to anemia. 
Thalassemia is an inherited disorder that affects the production of normal hemoglobin (a type of iron-rich protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen to the tissues of the body). Thalassemia includes a number of different forms of anemia, which are classified as either alpha thalassemias or beta thalasemias. 
Thalassemia. The thalassemias are a group of inherited blood disorders in which the genes that produce hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to all parts of the body, are broken. 
1 Thalassemias are inherited blood disorders. 2  Thalassemia patients make defective hemoglobin. 3  There are two forms of beta thalassemia: thalassemia minor and thalassemia major (also called Cooley's anemia). 4  Beta thalassemia is classically described in people of Italian and Greek origin. However, persons with thalassemia minor have a normal blood iron level (unless they are iron deficient for other reasons). No treatment is necessary for thalassemia minor. In particular, iron is neither necessary nor advised.
Thalassemia is an inherited (i.e., passed from parents to children through genes) blood disorder caused when the body doesn’t make enough of a protein called hemoglobin, an important part of red blood cells. 
Persons with thalassemia minor have (at most) mild anemia (slight lowering of the hemoglobin level in the blood). This situation can very closely resemble that with mild iron-deficiency anemia. However, persons with thalassemia minor have a normal blood iron level (unless they are iron deficient for other reasons). No treatment is necessary for thalassemia minor. In particular, iron is neither necessary nor advised.