This is sometimes called “expressive typography,” and it has been practiced by designers as diverse as Herb Lubalin in New York and Massin in France. Dramatic display typography is often used today in newspapers — especially in features pages. Newspaper designer Lucie Lacava brought highly unusual and effective use of type to her redesign of the Montreal daily “Le Devoir,” a paper well known for its role in the intellectual life of Quebec. québec
It is message to the public on whether this book is for them or not. Typography plays a huge role in a book cover, not only in setting the tone of what the book is, but also serving the simple purpose of delivering the title and author to anyone that is looking. Assignment Four: Typographic Book Cover. There are undoubtedly a variety of opinions on the role of a book cover, but my favorite description of a book cover’s purpose is to get the book in the hands of the right people.
In typography… if the columns of a newspaper or magazine or the pages of a book can be read for many minutes at a time without strain or difficulty, then we can say the type has good readability. Because the common meaning of legible is readable there are those – even some professionally involved in typography – who think that the term legibility is all that is needed in any discussion on the effectiveness of types. However, legibility and readability are separate, though connected aspects of type.
There are many ways to create expressive typography: - Type can be altered to support a concept or attitude. - You can use type as lines or shapes. - You can use striking contrasts of size, style, position and direction of type to impart a message. - Sometimes the size and shape of the letters have a direct bearing on the meaning of the words. Letters are not just abstract notions, carriers of meaning; they are also real, physical shapes. Paying attention to those shapes, and using them as a visual element in graphic design, is an essential part of the art of typography.
Letters are not just abstract notions, carriers of meaning; they are also real, physical shapes. Paying attention to those shapes, and using them as a visual element in graphic design, is an essential part of the art of typography. Dramatic display typography is often used today in newspapers — especially in features pages. Newspaper designer Lucie Lacava brought highly unusual and effective use of type to her redesign of the Montreal daily “Le Devoir,” a paper well known for its role in the intellectual life of Quebec. québec
Expressive therapy, also known as the expressive therapies, expressive arts therapy or creative arts therapy, is the use of the creative arts as a form of therapy. Unlike traditional art expression, the process of creation is emphasized rather than the final product. Expressive therapy is an umbrella term. Some common types of expressive therapy include: 1  expressive arts therapy. 2  art therapy. 3  dance therapy, also known as dance/movement therapy. 4  drama therapy. 5  psychodrama. 6  music therapy. 7  writing therapy, a term which may encompass journaling, poetry therapy, and bibliotherapy.
In this article we introduce the fundamental concepts of typography, followed by a detailed glossary of its main terms. Typography is, quite simply, the art and technique of arranging type. It's central to the work and skills of a designer and is about much more than making the words legible. 
Expressive typography is an art form where text is highly visual; actually, type becomes an image there. Letters are not just abstract notions, carriers of meaning; they are also real, physical shapes. Paying attention to those shapes, and using them as a visual element in graphic design, is an essential part of the art of typography.
Type design is a closely related craft, sometimes considered part of typography; most typographers do not design typefaces, and some type designers do not consider themselves typographers. Typography also may be used as a decorative device, unrelated to communication of information. Because the common meaning of legible is readable there are those – even some professionally involved in typography – who think that the term legibility is all that is needed in any discussion on the effectiveness of types. However, legibility and readability are separate, though connected aspects of type.
Selling as an Expressive. Dealing with an Expressive person from the other personality type’s point of view is relativity easy, but as an Expressive, you need to learn how to tone it down. It’s important for you to realize and understand when your your stories go off on a tangent. 