1 Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. 2  In a large bowl, toss brussels sprouts with 2 tablespoons olive oil, kosher salt and pepper. 3  Transfer the brussels sprouts to baking sheet and roast, stirring occasionally to ensure even browning, until tender and caramelized, about 20 minutes. 4  Place brussels sprouts back in bowl. 1 In a large bowl, toss brussels sprouts with 2 tablespoons olive oil, kosher salt and pepper. 2
1 Place trimmed Brussels sprouts, olive oil, kosher salt, and pepper in a large resealable plastic bag. 2  Seal tightly, and shake to coat. 3  Pour onto a baking sheet, and place on center oven rack. 4  Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes, shaking pan every 5 to 7 minutes for even browning. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (205 degrees C). 2  Place trimmed Brussels sprouts, olive oil, kosher salt, and pepper in a large resealable plastic bag. 3  Roast in the preheated oven for 30 to 45 minutes, shaking pan every 5 to 7 minutes for even browning.
1 Heat oven to 450 degrees. 2  Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 3  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 4  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 1 Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 2  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 3  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 4  Cook, undisturbed, until sprouts begin to brown on bottom, and transfer to oven.
Create a new list: Method: Preheat oven to 400°F. Toss Brussels sprouts with oil, salt and pepper on a rimmed baking sheet and roast, stirring once or twice, until deep golden brown, crisp outside and tender inside, 30 to 35 minutes. The leaves that are loose will be especially brown and crispy. Transfer to a bowl and serve. Rosemary Parmesan Brussels Sprouts. 
1 Take frozen brussels sprouts and place in a large bowl. 2  Pour olive oil and kosher salt over sprouts and mix well. 3  Place sprouts, evenly spaced and not stacked, on a baking sheet and place in a 400 degree oven for 40-45 minutes. Directions. 1 
Preparation. 1  Heat oven to 450 degrees. 2  Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 3  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 4  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 1 Trim bottom of brussels sprouts, and slice each in half top to bottom. 2  Heat oil in cast-iron pan over medium-high heat until it shimmers; put sprouts cut side down in one layer in pan. 3  Put in garlic, and sprinkle with salt and pepper. 4  Cook, undisturbed, until sprouts begin to brown on bottom, and transfer to oven.
1 Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 2  Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. 3  In a large bowl, toss brussels sprouts with 2 tablespoons olive oil, kosher salt and pepper. 4  Transfer the brussels sprouts to baking sheet and roast, stirring occasionally to ensure even browning, until tender and caramelized, about 20 minutes. 1 In a large bowl, toss brussels sprouts with 2 tablespoons olive oil, kosher salt and pepper. 2
Directions. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut off the brown ends of the Brussels sprouts and pull off any yellow outer leaves. Mix them in a bowl with the olive oil, salt and pepper. Pour them on a sheet pan and roast for 35 to 40 minutes, until crisp on the outside and tender on the inside. Shake the pan from time to time to brown the sprouts evenly. Sprinkle with more kosher salt (I like these salty like French fries), and serve immediately. 