ribozyme, or rna enzyme, is a rna molecule that act as enzymes, often found to catalyze cleavage of either its own or other rnas. It has also been found to catalyze the aminotransferase activity of the ribosome. 
ribozyme. n. 1. (Biochemistry) an RNA molecule capable of catalysing a chemical reaction, usually the cleavage of another RNA molecule. 
Medical Definition of RIBOZYME. : a molecule of RNA that functions as an enzyme (as by catalyzing the cleavage of other RNA molecules). Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about ribozyme. : a molecule of RNA that functions as an enzyme (as by catalyzing the cleavage of other RNA molecules). ADVERTISEMENT.
A ribozyme (ribo nucleic acid en zyme) is an RNA molecule that can help certain biochemical reactions. similar to the action of protein enzymes. Also called catalytic RNA, ribozymes work in the ribosome to link amino acids during protein synthesis. Improved variants of the Round-18 polymerase ribozyme have been developed. B6.61 is able to add up to 20 nucleotides to a primer template in 24 hours, until it decomposes by cleavage of its phosphodiester bonds. The tC19Z ribozyme can add up to 95 nucleotides with great accuracy.
The hammerhead ribozyme is a RNA molecule motif that catalyzes reversible cleavage and joining reactions at a specific site within an RNA molecule. The hammerhead ribozyme carries out a very simple chemical reaction that results in the breakage of the substrate strand of RNA, specifically at C17, the cleavage-site nucleotide. Although RNA cleavage is often referred to as hydrolysis, the mechanism employed does not in fact involve the addition of water.
A ribozyme (from ribonucleic acid enzyme, also called RNA enzyme or catalytic RNA) is an RNA molecule that catalyzes a chemical reaction. Many natural ribozymes catalyze either their own cleavage or the cleavage of other RNAs, but they have also been found to catalyze the aminotransferase activity of the ribosome. Best Answer: ribozyme is from ribonucleic acid enzyme, which is also called rna enzyme or catalytic rna. it is an rna molecule that catalyzes a chemical reaction...
The tC19Z ribozyme can add up to 95 nucleotides with a fidelity of 0.0083 mutations/nucleotide. Attempts have been made to develop ribozymes as therapeutic agents, as enzymes which target defined RNA sequences for cleavage, as biosensors, and for applications in functional genomics and gene discovery. For example in self cleaving ribozyme RNAs, an in-line SN2 reaction is carried out using the 2’ hydroxyl group as a nucleophile attacking the bridging phosphate and causing 5’ oxygen of the N+1 base to act as a leaving group.
Examples of ribozymes include the hammerhead ribozyme, the VS ribozyme, Leadzyme and the hairpin ribozyme. Investigators studying the origin of life have produced ribozymes in the laboratory that are capable of catalyzing their own synthesis under very specific conditions, such as an RNA polymerase ribozyme. For example in self cleaving ribozyme RNAs, an in-line SN2 reaction is carried out using the 2’ hydroxyl group as a nucleophile attacking the bridging phosphate and causing 5’ oxygen of the N+1 base to act as a leaving group.
Confidence votes 1.5K. A ribozyme is an RNA molecule that is capable of catalyzing a chemical reaction. Prior to the discovery of ribozymes, the only known biological catalysts were proteins called enzymes. Some textbooks claim it to be a ribozyme, but it is definitely an cellular enzyme. It has a reverse transcriptase part and a rna part. it uses the rna par … t as a primer and elongates the 3' end of a DNA strand which has been shortened during replication.