All of the items on the McDonalds secret menu list are highly coveted because they bring fresh options to the plain menu. And they are exclusive items that only those in the know can order. Now, you have the opportunity to check out some of the interesting and unique items that McDonalds has to offer. The creaters of the McDonalds secret menu are those that dared to dream. Those who thought, hey, I can make this better. And that's exactly what they did. Now, these items spread by word of mouth and the internet, growing into the list that you see below.
For those not in the know, a Land, Air, and Sea Burger is a Big Mac, McChicken, and Filet-O-Fish all slammed together. A McGangBang is a McChicken sandwiched inside a double cheeseburger. McDonald's isn't the only burger chain with a secret menu. In-N-Out and Shake Shack are in on the action in more official capacities, and Wendy's can cobble together underground items, as well. 1  IamA McDonald's manager AMA! [Reddit].
Pie McFlurry. Perhaps the sweetest, literally, item on the McDonald's secret menu is the Pie McFlurry. It consists of a pie of your choice blended into your favourite McFlurry. If the server at your local McDonald's won't blend it for you, you might have to take matters into your own hands
It seems that the McDonald's secret menu is so secret you have to order from it in code, and the menu itself isn't printed anywhere. Here, courtesy of Hack the Menu, are a few tasty delicacies from it, along with instructions on how to order them. Perhaps the sweetest, literally, item on the McDonald's secret menu is the Pie McFlurry. It consists of a pie of your choice blended into your favourite McFlurry. If the server at your local McDonald's won't blend it for you, you might have to take matters into your own hands
T his is a list of the best and most popular McDonalds secret menu items. There's a reason why some of these McDonalds secret menu items are even more popular than regular McDonalds orders -- discovering these secret menus make you feel like you've found a hidden treasure chest that you can't wait to open. The creaters of the McDonalds secret menu are those that dared to dream. Those who thought, hey, I can make this better. And that's exactly what they did. Now, these items spread by word of mouth and the internet, growing into the list that you see below.
The Big McChicken and the Chicken McGriddle: The Big McChicken (left) is one of the most elusive items on the McDonald's secret menu. In essence the burger is Big Mac but instead of using a split-level, two decked bun, it uses the McChicken patties instead. These are called grill orders (ie Big Mac no pickle). 'The items on the secret menu weren't invented by anyone officially at McDonald's, it's just a random persons guide to burgers you could potentially hack at McDonald's.'. The manager also gave a brief guide on what to definitely avoid.
The McDonald’s secret menu has generated a lot of hype recently, with headlines airing its big name secret menu items like the McGangBang, the Monster Mac and McKinley Mac as some of the favorites on their unknown list of combinations. Depending on the time McDonalds starts serving breakfast and which day you show up, there may be more options. The rest of the list, however, may even be more innovative than its big name items, so check out what more the McDonald’s secret menu has to offer below.
These are called 'grill orders' (i.e. Big Mac no pickle) The items on the 'secret menu' weren't invented by anyone officially at McDonald's, it's just a random persons guide to burgers you could potentially 'hack' at McDonald's. McDonald's isn't the only burger chain with a secret menu. In-N-Out and Shake Shack are in on the action in more official capacities, and Wendy's can cobble together underground items, as well. 1  IamA McDonald's manager AMA! [Reddit].