FIGURATIVE LANGUAGE. Figurative language is when words and ideas are used to create mental images and give impressions. When we use figurative language in our poetry it gives our ideas strength and helps the reader to understand what we mean. On. the back of the sheet write 2 sentences of figurative language. FIGURATIVE LANGUAGE-ANSWERS. Figurative language is when words and ideas are used to create mental images and give impressions. When we use figurative language in our poetry it gives our ideas strength and helps the reader to understand what we mean. Personificatio
Whenever you describe something by comparing it with something else, you are using figurative language. A simile uses the words like or as to compare one object or idea with another to suggest they are alike. The metaphor states a fact or draws a verbal picture by the use of comparison. A simile would say you are like something; a metaphor is more positive-it says you are something.
(Meaning: you give me hope and happiness.). Personification. Personification is a type of figurative language which gives an object human characteristics (emotions, sensations, speech, physical movements).For example: The branches of the tree danced in the wind. She was swallowed by the waves in an instant. The warm sun smiled down on us
The use of figurative language. Figurative language is language which uses figures of speech. This is when the writer describes things through the use of unusual comparisons, for effect, interest, to make things clearer. The result of using this technique is the creation of interesting images. The main figures of speech are:
Figurative Language Examples. The definition of figurative language is when you describe something by comparing it with something else. There are few different ways to use figurative language. See below for more information and examples of figurative language and how to use it. Remove these ads.
In KS2 children often analyse figurative language when reading poetry and fiction. Personification, or giving a non-living object human characteristics to describe it, is a common technique children will study and learn to use in their own writing. Children might be asked to give examples of personification in the poem. For example: 1  Night is often referred to as 'she' in this poem. 2  Night is given body parts, such as hands and eyelids, and is said to 'breathe'.
“Figurative Language” helps students learn about using specific elements of literature. The song covers personification, alliteration, assonance, hyperbole, onomatopoeia, metaphors, and similes, and gives figurative language examples by teaching through music, rhyme, and memorization. 