Flowering plants are divided into monocots (or monocotyledons) and dicots (or dicotyledons). This comparison examines the morphological differences in the leaves, stems, flowers and fruits of monocots and dicots. There is also a different type of pollen structure present in the two classes. Monocots developed from plants with a single pore or furrow in the pollen, whereas dicots developed from plants with three furrows in their pollen structure.
Examples of dicotyledonous plants are beans, buttercups, oaks, sunflowers, etc. The angiosperms (the flowering plants) can either be a monocotyledon (or monocot) or a dicotyledon (or dicot) according to the number of cotyledons in their seeds (which in the case of dicots the cotyledons are two, hence the name). 
Plants are classified by botanists as either monocotyledons or dicotyledons. Monocotyledons, or monocots for short, are plants with just one cotyledon. A cotyledon is a seed leaf, which is the first leaf of a plant to develop and an important part of the seed and embryo. Dicotyledons, or dicots, are plants that have two initial cotyledons. This lesson focuses on dicots. In addition to having two seed leaves, dicots have flower parts in groups of four or five. 
A dicot is a type of flowering plant characterized by its two cotyledons, tetramerous or pentamerous flowers, and net-like leaf veins. Plants or trees classified as dicots include geraniums, maple trees, roses and sunflowers. Determining if a plant is a flowering or non-flowering species can aid in identification. 
A dicot is a flowering plant with two embryonic seed leaves, rather than the single embryonic seed leaf associated with monocots. Embryonic seed leaves, also known as cotyledons, are an important part of plant development, and monocots and dicots develop in different ways right from the very start. This type of plant may also be referred to as magnoliopsids, referencing the class to which they belong. Some flowers, such as the hibiscus flower, are dicots. Plums have five-petaled flowers, a classic sign of a dicot. Dicots are flowering plants with two embryonic seed leaves.
Seed. The most important difference between the monocots and dicots is the number of embryonic leaves, or cotyledons. There are two cotyledons in the seeds of these plants that actually emerge above the soil, when the seed germinates. They then turn green and form the first two leaves of the new plant. Leaves. The leaves of the plants have veins that form a branched pattern, unlike monocots, in which they run parallel. The veins are actually netted or webbed on the whole surface of the leaf. Vascular Structure. The stems have vascular bundles, consisting of two structures, the xylem and the phloem.
A 'dicot' or dicotyledon is a flowering plant which has two cotyledons. The plants in this category have broad leaves with branched veins. Their flowers are arranged in fours … and fives or multiples of four and five. Some examples are: Buttercups, sunflowers, roses and fruit trees. (Apples, pears, cherries.). A dicot or dicotyledon is a flowering plant with an embryo that  bears two seed leaves. Examples of dicots are beans, oaks, olives,  legumes and apples.
n. Any of various flowering plants that are not monocotyledons, having two cotyledons in the seed and usually flower parts in multiples of four or five, leaves with reticulate venation, pollen with three pores, and the capacity for secondary growth. 