Arabia is a piece of land. Saudi Arabia is a country. Since Saudi  Arabia occupies over 80% of Arabia, many people use the terms  interchangeably even though they are not so … . Arabia is still called  Arabia, even though its geopolitical divisions have changed often  in the last 500 years. 
To show Saudi Arabian Riyals and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Saudi Arabian Riyal is the currency in Saudi Arabia (SA, SAU). The Saudi Arabian Riyal is also known as the Saudi Arabian Rial. The symbol for SAR can be written SRls, and ﷼. The Saudi Arabian Riyal is divided into 100 halalat. The exchange rate for the Saudi Arabian Riyal was last updated on October 9, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. 
Saudi Arabia Currency The Saudi Riyal (SR) is the unit of currency in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It is divided into a hundred Halalah. The denominations of the Saudi currency are as follows: Bills: 1, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200 and 500 Riyals. Coins: 5, 10, 25, 50, and 100 Halalahs. 1 Riyal equal 100 Halalas.
Wahhabi Islam has been called the predominant feature of Saudi culture. Saudi Arabia is sometimes called the Land of the Two Holy Mosques in reference to Al-Masjid al-Haram (in Mecca), and Al-Masjid an-Nabawi (in Medina), the two holiest places in Islam. Saudi Arabia has the fourth highest military expenditure in the world, and in 2010–14, SIPRI found that Saudi Arabia was the world's second largest arms importer. Saudi Arabia is considered a regional and middle power. In addition to the GCC, it is an active member of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation and OPEC.
The riyal has been the currency of Saudi Arabia since the country came into being and was the currency of Hejaz before Saudi Arabia was created. one of the primary currencies in the Mediterranean region during the Ottoman era. The Saudi riyal (Arabic: ريال riyāl; ISO 4217 code: SAR) is the currency of Saudi Arabia. It is abbreviated as ر.س or SR (Saudi Riyal) . It is subdivided into 100 Halala s (Arabic: هللة ‎ Halalah) 
Report Abuse. The riyal (currency code SAR) is the official currency of Saudi Arabia. History The riyal has been the currency of Saudi Arabia since the country came in to being and was the currency of Hejaz before Saudi Arabia was created. The Hejaz riyal was initially equivalent to the Ottoman 20 qurush coin and was consequently divided into 20 qurush, each of 40 para. Best Answer: Currency in Saudi Arabia: Saudi riyal (SAR) Hope this helps -- -- Alan.
The currency in Saudi Arabia is the Saudi Riyal (also spelled Rial), commonly referred to as the SR.. The SR has been fixed at a stable rate to the US dollar since the early 1980s, with the rate being: US$1 = SR3.75. 
Saudi Arabia, Riyal. The Saudi Arabian Riyal is the currency of Saudi Arabia. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Saudi Arabia Riyal exchange rate is the INR to SAR rate. The currency code for Riyals is SAR, and the currency symbol is ﷼. Below, you'll find Saudi Arabian Riyal rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take SAR rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. When Saudi Arabia was established in 1932, the Saudi Riyal was introduced. The exchange rate had multiple corrections in its history, with 1 riyal originally being equal to 22 qurush coins. In 1960, the currency changed to 20 qurush coins being equal to 1 riyal.