PRONOUNCED: DEE-kən [key]. Meaning & History. Either from the occupational surname Deacon or directly from the vocabulary word deacon, which refer to a cleric in the Christian church (ultimately from Greek διακονος (diakonos) meaning servant). Popularity. 
See worldwide popularity rankings of Deacon as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby boy name, Deacon is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 985 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . In 2009, the name Deacon fell in popularity and moved down the USA Top 1000 charts in Year 2009, by 42 places. 
Meanings and history of the name Deacon: | Edit. The name Deacon is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Deacon is: Dusty one; servant. Greek Meaning: The name Deacon is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Deacon is: Dusty one; servant. Comments and insights on the name Deacon: | Edit. We named our first born Deacon Maddox and have always gotten tons of compliments on the choice. He has always been a kind-hearted leader which we encourage.
In many traditions the diaconate (or deaconate), the term for a deacon's office, is a clerical office; in others it is for laity. The word deacon is derived from the Greek word diakonos (diákonos), διάκονος which is a standard Ancient greek word meaning, servant-waiting, man, minister or. messenger 
Deacon is an unusual given name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#9263 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Deacon for boys. Deacon entered the list in 2004 and reached its peak position of #421 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Deacon /dea-con/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DEE-ken. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Deacon is dusty one; servant; messenger. A deacon is a ministerial assistant in a Christian congregation
Biblical Basis for Deacons Acts 6 gives us the origin and meaning of deacons in the church context. The word deacon was not used in this passage. It was not an office but a function that was being performed. The words daily ministratrion is the word diakonia.. Several things can be noted. 
Deacon is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Dea-con. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 421 in baby name popularity for boys with 724 occurrences. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Deacon. Deacon is a recently coined masculine given name, from the title for an ordained member of the Christian clergy, one who ranks beneath a priest or minister. The word ultimately comes from the Latin “diaconus” which was borrowed from the Greek διάκονος (diakonos) meaning “servant”. Children's Books on the Baby Name Deacon. Deacon Leeds and the Pyramid of Symbols (Grant Morris) - Deacon Leeds is spending his school break on a scientific expedition in frigid Antarctica.
It is or rather was at least in England an occupational name for a deacon, or perhaps for his servant. The derivation is from the Old English pre 7th century word deakne, although ultimately the origin is from the late Latin word diaconus or the Ancient Greek diakonos, meaning a friend or manservant. 