Salsify is called vegetable oyster because of its faint oyster-like flavor. This name is used interchangeably to describe two roots. White salsify is pale, thin, forked, has rootlets at the bottom, while black salsify (scorzonera) looks like a brown carrot and is much smoother and longer looking. Popular in Europe since the 16th century, this root has just begun to make its appearance in markets.
The most surprising thing about salsify, the first time you eat it, is its flavor. Traditionally it is called “oyster plant,” a name as inaccurate as it is unappetizing. The roots taste nothing like oysters, and nothing like parsnips either. 
Definition of SALSIFY. : a European biennial composite herb (Tragopogon porrifolius) with a long fusiform edible root —called also oyster plant, vegetable oyster. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A root vegetable that is typically referred to by either of two names, white Salsify or black Salsify. Often confusing to many, the main difference between the two is their appearance while their flavor and use are very similar. White and black Salsify are commonly known as White or Black Oyster plant in reference to their color and flavor for what many historically believed was a root tasting similar to the delicate flavor of oysters. However, the flavor of Salsify is closer to that of asparagus or artichoke hearts than it is to an oyster.
Salsify. Pronounce it: sal-suhf-eye. A root vegetable belonging to the dandelion family, salsify is also known as the oyster plant because of its oystery taste when cooked. The root is similar in appearance to a long, thin parsnip, with creamy white flesh and a thick skin. A root vegetable belonging to the dandelion family, salsify is also known as the oyster plant because of its oystery taste when cooked
The salsify plant (Tragopogon porrifolius) is an old-fashioned vegetable that is very hard to find in the grocery store, which means that salsify as a garden plant is fun and unusual. Common names for this vegetable include oyster plant and vegetable oyster, due to its distinct oyster flavor. The best time to plant salsify is in early spring in areas that get snow and early autumn in areas where snow does not fall. It takes about 100 – 120 days for them to reach harvesting size and they prefer cool weather. When you grow salsify, you will be starting with seeds.
Salsify may refer to: 1  Tragopogon, a plant genus. 2  Tragopogon porrifolius, a plant with linear leaves cultivated for its light-skinned edible root and herbal properties. 3  Scorzonera hispanica, a plant with lanceolate leaves cultivated for its dark-skinned edible root. This page is an index of articles on plant species (or higher taxonomic groups) with the same common name (vernacular name). If an internal link led you here, you may wish to edit the linking article so that it links directly to the intended article.
Top 10 facts about the world. Salsify is a root vegetable native to the Mediterranean region of Europe, where it has been cultivated and used in food for centuries. This plant has also been widely introduced to other regions of the world, although it is primarily popular in Europe. 