The Statute of Westminster, 1931 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom and separate versions of it are now domestic law within Australia and Canada; it has been repealed in New Zealand and implicitly by subsequent laws in former Commonwealth realms. The text of the British act states that Canada requested and consented (the only Dominion to formally do both) to the act applying in Canada under the Statute of Westminster, while Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa simply assented.
Facts and Details. The Statute of Westminster is a law that was passed by the British Parliament at Westminster, Great Britain on December 11, 1931. The Statute clarified the powers of Canada’s Parliament and other Dominions (ex. Australia, New Zealand, etc.). The Statute of Westminster was also an important part in the histories of other British Dominions that were granted new independence (ex. Australia, New Zealand, parts of South Africa, etc.).
The Statute of Westminster gave effect to certain political resolutions passed by the Imperial Conferences of 1926 and 1930; in particular, the Balfour Declaration of 1926. The text of the British act states that Canada requested and consented (the only Dominion to formally do both) to the act applying in Canada under the Statute of Westminster, while Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa simply assented.
The Statute of Westminster's relevance today is that it sets the basis for the continuing relationship between the Commonwealth realms and the Crown. The text of the British act states that Canada requested and consented (the only Dominion to formally do both) to the act applying in Canada under the Statute of Westminster, while Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa simply assented.
Statute of Westminster. The Statute of Westminster, of 11 December 1931, was a British law clarifying the powers of Canada's Parliament and those of the other Commonwealth Dominions. It granted these former colonies full legal freedom except in those areas where they chose to remain subordinate to Britain. Nor did Canada immediately take up all of its new powers under the Statute of Westminster. Not until 1949, for instance, did the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council, a British body, cease to be a final court of appeal for Canadians. 1  Law. 2  commonwealth.
Britain's Statute of Westminster, an Act of Parliament passed in December 1931, was the legal recognition of the evolved independence of the Dominions within the British Commonwealth. With this document Australia adopted an Act of the British Parliament which set out as law the independence of the governments of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Eire and Newfoundland.
In 1931, the British parliament passed the Statute of Westminster, a law that gave formal recognition to all countries with Dominion status full independence, stating that they were bound by no laws but their own. 
Statute of Westminster Adoption Act 1942 (Cth). With this document Australia adopted an Act of the British Parliament which set out as law the independence of the governments of Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Eire and Newfoundland.
The Statute of Westminster is a momentous, yet often overlooked, occasion in Canadian history. Despite being granted the right to self-government in 1867, Canada did not enjoy full legal autonomy until the Statute was passed on December 11, 1931. The Statute of Westminster finds its origins at the Imperial Conference of 1926. Lord Balfour, Britain’s Foreign Minister, suggested that all Dominions be granted full autonomy in their legislations. This would establish equality amongst Britain and the Dominions.
No Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom passed after the commencement of this Act shall extend or be deemed to extend, to a Dominion as part of the law of that Dominion, unless it is expressly declared in that Act that that Dominion has requested, and consented to, the enactment thereof. The text of the British act states that Canada requested and consented (the only Dominion to formally do both) to the act applying in Canada under the Statute of Westminster, while Australia, New Zealand, and the Union of South Africa simply assented.