Peripheral neuropathy is the term that describes and injury or disease affecting areas of the nervous system outside of the brain and spinal cord (hence the term 'peripheral'). Essentially any nerves outside these regions can theoretically be affected by a neuropathy. A wide range of doctors. A patient with diabetes, for example, who begins experiencing the early symptoms of neuropathy (such as tingling and numbness in the arms or legs) should immediately contact the doctor who's most familiar with his medical history, or a doctor well-versed in diabetes treatment.
Effective prognosis and treatment of peripheral neuropathy relies heavily on the cause of the nerve damage. For example, a peripheral neuropathy caused by a vitamin deficiency can be treated -- even reversed -- with vitamin therapy and an improved diet. Likewise, nerve damage brought on by alcohol abuse can often be stopped and improved by avoiding alcohol. If anyone in your family has been diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy or has had similar symptoms, your doctor may want to review their medical records or examine them to look for potential hereditary links to your condition.
Peripheral neuropathy is damage of the peripheral nerves. Your peripheral nerves — the nerves in your toes and fingertips — are the ones on the periphery of your body. When the nerves are damaged, they don't function properly. A podiatrist, family physician, internist, or physician who specializes in diabetes can diagnose peripheral neuropathy. The diagnosis is made on the basis of a physical exam, health history, and your reporting of symptoms.
Neuropathy--also called peripheral neuropathy--refers to any condition that affects the normal activity of the nerves of the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system is the network of nerves that connects the central nervous system--the brain and spinal cord--to the rest of the body. 
Peripheral neuropathy is a type of damage to the nervous system. Specifically, it occurs when there is a problem with your peripheral nervous system, the network of nerves that transmits information from your central nervous system (your brain and spinal cord) to the rest of your body. Types of peripheral neuropathy. There are more than 100 types of peripheral neuropathy, each with its own set of symptoms and prognosis. To help doctors classify them, they are often broken down into the following categories: Motor
Symptoms. The most common symptoms of peripheral neuropathy include burning, numbness, tingling, or shooting or stabbing pain in the toes and/or fingertips. Any change in sensation in the fingers or toes may be a symptom of peripheral neuropathy. Be sure to report any abnormal sensations to your doctor. A podiatrist, family physician, internist, or physician who specializes in diabetes can diagnose peripheral neuropathy. The diagnosis is made on the basis of a physical exam, health history, and your reporting of symptoms.
Accordingly, peripheral neuropathy is neuropathy that affects the nerves of the extremities-the toes, feet, legs, fingers, hands, and arms. The term proximal neuropathy has been used to refer to nerve damage that specifically causes pain in the shoulders, thighs, hips, or buttocks. Autonomic neuropathy: Autonomic neuropathy is damage to the nerves of the involuntary nervous system. These nerves that control the heart and circulation (including blood pressure), digestion, bowel and bladder function, the sexual response, and perspiration.
Peripheral neuropathy is a disease category that includes any of a range of symptoms stemming from nerve injury or unusual nerve behavior. Neuropathy can range from disorienting to painful to debilitating, depending on the patient, the origins of the problem and the progression of the condition. A wide range of doctors. A patient with diabetes, for example, who begins experiencing the early symptoms of neuropathy (such as tingling and numbness in the arms or legs) should immediately contact the doctor who's most familiar with his medical history, or a doctor well-versed in diabetes treatment.
A. If your doctor suspects you may have a form of peripheral neuropathy, he or she may refer you to a neurologist, a doctor who specializes in diseases of the nerves. If anyone in your family has been diagnosed with peripheral neuropathy or has had similar symptoms, your doctor may want to review their medical records or examine them to look for potential hereditary links to your condition.