Integrated geography (also, integrative geography, environmental geography or human–environment geography) is the branch of geography that describes and explains the spatial aspects of interactions between human individuals or societies and their natural environment, called coupled human–environment systems. Thereby, integrated geography represents a critically important set of analytical tools for assessing the impact of human presence on the environment by measuring the result of human activity on natural landforms and cycles.
(2) The geographic environment is the natural environment of human society—that is, the complex of natural conditions that arose independently of man and that have preserved, despite man’s influence, a capacity for further self-evolution according to the laws governing the geographic envelope of the earth. Some scientists have erroneously tried to identify the geographic environment with the earth’s geographic envelope. Whereas the geographic environment increases spatially with the development of human society, the geographic envelope does not.
Environmental geography is the study of systematic description of different components of environment and interactions of man with these components. Thus the definition of Environmental geography may be further broadened as follows: The answer is easy, the term of Environmental geography lays more emphasis on man-environment relationships .Probably K. Hewitt and F. K. Hare first used the term of ‘environmental geography’ in Man and Environment.
2 (the environment) The natural world, as a whole or in a particular geographical area, especially as affected by human activity: the impact of pesticides on the environment [as modifier]: a parliamentary environment committee. More example sentences. Synonyms. 
“Thus broadly speaking, environmental geography may be defined as the study of spatial attributes of interrelationships between living organisms and natural environment in general and between technologically advanced ‘economic man’ and his natural environment in particular in temporal and spatial framework.”. The answer is easy, the term of Environmental geography lays more emphasis on man-environment relationships .Probably K. Hewitt and F. K. Hare first used the term of ‘environmental geography’ in Man and Environment.
Geography (from Greek γεωγραφία, geographia, lit. earth description) is a field study of the lands, the features, the inhabitants, and the phenomena of Earth. A literal translation would be to describe or picture or write about the earth. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Geography has been called the world discipline and the bridge between the human and the physical science . Geography is divided into two main branches: human geography and physical geography.
that part of the terrestrial natural environment that has been to some extent altered by human beings and which at the present moment is directly connected with the life and production activity of society. The geographic environment has four basic features. (1) It is the terrestrial environment of human society. Some scientists have erroneously tried to identify the geographic environment with the earth’s geographic envelope. Whereas the geographic environment increases spatially with the development of human society, the geographic envelope does not.
There have been attempts in geographic literature to include human society itself in the geographic environment (that is to make human society its own environment), as well as the implements of labor and all objects made by human hands. Some scientists have erroneously tried to identify the geographic environment with the earth’s geographic envelope. Whereas the geographic environment increases spatially with the development of human society, the geographic envelope does not.
Throughout the study of geography, there have been a number of different approaches to explaining the development of the world's societies and cultures. One that received much prominence in geographic history but has declined in recent decades of academic study is environmental determinism. 