Instructions. Wrap the plate in a layer of tissue paper or blank newsprint paper to protect the surface. Place a layer of styrofoam peanuts or crumpled newspaper in the bottom of the shipping carton. Wrap the plate in one to two layers of bubble wrap and tape the sides to prevent the plate from sliding out. Put the plate in the shipping carton and fill completely with peanuts or crumpled newspaper. Close the box and gently shake to make sure the plate is adequately cushioned.
Step One: Take the plate and wrap it in small bubbles first. If you have 4 plates to ship then wrap each plate in it's own small bubble wrap. You can combine them later. Tape the bubble wrap closed in the center and on each end. Step Two-Wrap the plate in large
The glass panels are sandwiched between two pieces of honeycomb and slipped inside the protective UChannel pieces. Strapping holds everything snugly together. UChannel is also cut into smaller pieces that are taped back-to-back with the edge protection to provide a required buffer zone inside the corrugated dbox.
Now you can properly protect the glass doors by wrapping them in bubble wrap. Once you have securely covered with wrap, slide doors into a mirror box or any other package that will securely contain them so they don't move during transport.
DO wrap items in a layer of paper, tissue etc. to keep from scratching the surfaces or decorative motifs. Do NOT wrap in newspaper! DO wrap the item in bubble wrap. Wrap not under or over but around it. DO tape items, to keep the protective material in place, but not to mummify.
When shipping stacks of plate or bowl: use layers. Use a layer of bubble wrap, then a plate, and another layer of bubble wrap, etc After your stack is complete use another layer of bubble wrap (large bubbles if you have them), then tape together.
1 Newspaper-Not highly recommended for shipping. 2  Do not place directly in contact with your item. 3  The ink can adhere to the surfaces of your items, especially bisque and other unglazed surfaces. 4  Newspaper is not a great shock absorber.