C-peptide testing can be used for a few different purposes. C-peptide is a substance produced by the beta cells in the pancreas when proinsulin splits apart and forms one molecule of C-peptide and one molecule of insulin. Insulin is the hormone that is vital for the body to use its main energy source, glucose.
Peptide: A molecule consisting of 2 or more amino acids. Peptides are smaller than proteins, which are also chains of amino acids. Molecules small enough to be synthesized from the constituent amino acids are, by convention, called peptides rather than proteins. The dividing line is at about 50 amino acids. 
Peptides (from Gr. πεπτός, digested, derived from πέσσειν, to digest) are biologically occurring short chains of amino acid monomers linked by peptide (amide) bonds. The covalent chemical bonds are formed when the carboxyl group of one amino acid reacts with the amino group of another. Amino acids that have been incorporated into peptides are termed residues due to the release of either a hydrogen ion from the amine end or a hydroxyl ion from the carboxyl end, or both, as a water molecule is released during formation of each amide bond.
A protein is a peptide, but a peptide is not always a protein. As the article pointed out, a peptide with 50 or more amino acids is considered a protein. Anything less than that and it doesn't meet the protein qualification. A covalent bond is a type of chemical bond that occurs when atoms share electrons. The specific type of covalent bond formed in these compounds is known as a peptide bond or amide bond, and it forms when the carboxl group of one amino acid attaches to another.
Peptides are chains of amino acids that are the building blocks of proteins in the skin. When peptides form a long chain of amino acids, they become proteins. When they are in a short chain of amino acids, they are able to penetrate the top layer of our skin and send signals to our cells to let them know how to function. One important protein in our skin is collagen. 
peptide. organic compound composed of amino acids amino acid, any one of a class of simple organic compounds containing carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and in certain cases sulfur. These compounds are the building blocks of proteins...... Click the link for more information. linked together chemically by peptide bonds.
A C-peptide test measures the level of this peptide in the blood. It is generally found in amounts equal to insulin because insulin and C-peptide are linked when first made by the pancreas. Insulin helps the body use and control the amount of sugar (glucose) in the blood. A C-peptide test can be done when diabetes has just been found and it is not clear whether type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes is present. A person whose pancreas does not make any insulin (type 1 diabetes) has a low level of insulin and C-peptide.
The level of C-peptide in the blood can show how much insulin is being made by the pancreas. C-peptide does not affect the blood sugar level in the body. A C-peptide test can be done when diabetes has just been found and it is not clear whether type 1 diabetes or type 2 diabetes is present. A person whose pancreas does not make any insulin (type 1 diabetes) has a low level of insulin and C-peptide.
Peptides are compounds that are formed by linking one or more amino acids with a covalent bond. These compounds are classified as polymers, because they typically link together in long chains. All animals on Earth have them in their body, and in a way, they are one of the building blocks of life. A covalent bond is a type of chemical bond that occurs when atoms share electrons. The specific type of covalent bond formed in these compounds is known as a peptide bond or amide bond, and it forms when the carboxl group of one amino acid attaches to another.