Known by multiple common names, such as humbug damselfish, three-striped damselfish and white-tailed damselfish, Dascyllus aruanus is a feisty little fish that adapts well to aquarium life. Three-striped damselfish can be pugnacious and are better introduced at the latter stages of setting up a marine fish community. Remove as many of the three-striped damselfish fry as you want to try and raise to a rearing aquarium, with an absence of adult fish and invertebrates that might look upon the young fish as tasty morsels for the taking. Dascyllus aruanus is a worthy first-time breeding project for up-and-coming marine aquarists.
Damselfishes comprise the family Pomacentridae except those of the genera Amphiprion and Premnas, which are the anemonefishes. They can grow up to 14 inches (36 cm) long. While most are marine, a few species inhabit the lower stretches of rivers in fresh water. Damselfish usually have bright colors. Many species live in tropical coral reefs, and many of those are kept as marine aquarium pets. Their diets include small crustaceans, plankton, and algae.
Size and appearance. The largest scientifically measured Striped Damsel was 10.0 cm / 3.9 in. The Striped Damsel is white and adorned with three black bars. A large brown spot is located on the dorsal part of the snout. The pelvic fins are black, the caudal fin is pale, and the pectoral fins are translucent. 
Habits: Damselfish are found in all tropical and some semitropical seas, and certain species inhabit fresh or brackish water. Damselfish are most abundant in the Indo-Pacific region. They usually live in shallow water around coral reefs, mangroves, and beds of sea grass. More than 200 species of brightly colored damselfish can be found in the shallow waters of both tropical and semitropical seas. Even though these fish are small, they are extremely aggressive and vigorously defend their territory against competitive species and sometimes even against human divers.
The following list of marine aquarium fish species commonly available in the aquarium trade is not a completely comprehensive list; certain rare specimens may available commercially yet not be listed here. 
Care considerations: The three-striped damselfish can be kept by itself in setups of as little as 10 gallons, but a minimum aquarium size of 30 gallons is recommended. The three-striped damselfish needs to have plenty of crevices in the rockwork in which to occasionally hide and feel secure. Remove as many of the three-striped damselfish fry as you want to try and raise to a rearing aquarium, with an absence of adult fish and invertebrates that might look upon the young fish as tasty morsels for the taking. Dascyllus aruanus is a worthy first-time breeding project for up-and-coming marine aquarists.
Blue Damselfish. Description of the Blue Damselfish The Blue Damselfish is also known as the Sapphire devil or Orangetail blue damselfish and is one of the most popular saltwater aquarium fish. The Blue Damselfish makes a beautiful addition to any aquarium, it is hardy and an ideal fish for the beginner. 
1 Three Stripe Damsel Fish-These striking black and white fish are fairly aggressive and need a large aquarium with plenty of hiding places. 2  Cerulean Damsel Fish-These vividly coloured fish are very territorial and should be added to the aquarium only after more peaceful fish have had time to establish themselves. 1 Sulphur Damsel Fish-With exotic yellow colouration, these hardy and adaptable fish are aquarium favourites. 2  Blue Green Chromis-These stunningly beautiful iridescent fish are naturally hardy and peaceful by nature. 3  Despite being small they need a lot of swimming space.
1 Yellowtail Damsel Fish-The most popular damsel fish available, these naturally resilient fish are comparatively peaceful if kept in a shoal in a tank where they feel secure. 2  Three Stripe Damsel Fish-These striking black and white fish are fairly aggressive and need a large aquarium with plenty of hiding places. 1 Sulphur Damsel Fish-With exotic yellow colouration, these hardy and adaptable fish are aquarium favourites. 2  Blue Green Chromis-These stunningly beautiful iridescent fish are naturally hardy and peaceful by nature. 3  Despite being small they need a lot of swimming space.
The 3-Stripe Damselfish, also known as the Three Striped Damselfish, White-tailed Damselfish, and Humbug Dascyllus, is a popular fish. Three bold black bands are separated by two white bands with a smaller bar of white to offset the tail. QUICK STATS. 