Report Abuse. no i would not give her almond milk because 1- they aren't supposed to have regular cows milk until 1 year because thats when their digestive systems can handle it and 2- almond is a nut and with how severe nut allergies are, I wouldn't introduce any type of nut until the DR okay's it around 18 months. Report Abuse. I would wait until a year old to introduce any kind of milk. You should tlak to her pediatrician about this. Babies digestive tract is very sensitive at this point, and I'm not sure it would be wise. I don't know much about almond milk though, so don't quote me. I do know that cow's milk can cause intestinal bleeding in infants under 1 year, so almond milk may cause it too
Almond milk is easy to store and can be stored on the shelf until its opened, then it should be stored in the refrigerator. Almond Milk As A Regular Milk Substitute. If your child does not like the taste of milk, if they have a dairy allergy, or if your family is vegan, almond milk can be substituted for milk. You will need to be sure to have a diet plan which includes enough good fats, vitamins and nutrients which would otherwise come from traditional full fat milk. Milk provides protein for growth and carbohydrates that give your child the energy they need to play all day long. Consumption Requirements. Children between the ages of one and two should consume between 16 and 24 ounces of milk per day.
I'd like to start giving my 9 months old baby a little bit of almond milk (in her oatmeal or as a little snack mixed with banana). I am still breastfeeding her. 
Pediatricians will tell you that you should introduce nuts (tree nuts) to your baby between the age of 12 months and 36 months. Oh yes, this is a big and confusing age gap. The reasons for this age gap are as varied as pediatricians that make the recommendations. 
Our panel of health writers. It is recommended that you keep your baby on breast milk or infant formula for her first year. That said, Health Canada recommends that you introduce whole milk or homo milk (3.25 per cent) once your baby is between nine months and a year. 
Cows' milk doesn't contain enough iron and other nutrients to meet young babies' needs. That's why it shouldn't be given as a drink to babies until they are 12 months old. Whole milk should be given to children until they are two years old, as they need the extra energy and vitamins it contains. Formula milk. This is usually based on cows' milk and is the only suitable alternative to breast milk in the first 12 months of your baby's life. Cows' milk can be introduced from 12 months.
Typical Foods for Babies. There are several charts out there that say when babies should have which foods, and when to introduce certain foods. With nuts it is different, and the range can be anywhere from one to three years. Since your baby doesn’t need almonds, we say you should give it the full time and go with the 36 month rule. 
For example, your child may be fine with one cup of milk but develop symptoms if they also eat a tub of yogurt and a slice of cheese. Almond Milk and Allergies. While almond milk is healthy, it should be avoided until after your child’s second birthday due to the high risk of nut allergies. Milk provides protein for growth and carbohydrates that give your child the energy they need to play all day long. Consumption Requirements. Children between the ages of one and two should consume between 16 and 24 ounces of milk per day.
Many nutritionists advise to wait until after your child’s first birthday to introduce regular milk into their diet, not even almond milk. Before your child hits the one-year mark, their digestive system cannot properly digest the milk proteins. Milk provides protein for growth and carbohydrates that give your child the energy they need to play all day long. Consumption Requirements. Children between the ages of one and two should consume between 16 and 24 ounces of milk per day.