The Language Spoken by Adam. “The whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.”. —Genesis 11:1. EVOLUTIONISTS CLAIM that man evolved from lower orders of animal life and appeared in different parts of the world, with each species or group developing its own language.
English originated in England and is spoken as the first language in many parts of the world that were part of the British Empire-namely the United States, Canada, Australia … , New-Zealand.
Answer: Sanskrit was the very first language spoken by human. Prove1-: Maatri is Sanskrit word means Mother In Hindi it is Mata. And in German it is matair and in English it i … s Mother. Prove2-:Gow is Sanskrit word means Cow. So cow is also related to Sanskrit So Sanskrit is first language spoken by human. apat from the unnamed early language used by africans & arians, the first language to develope grammer and phonems is TAMIL. TAMIL was structured before vedas of sanskrit.
If you are asking what the most commonly spoken first language is in U.S. homes, it's English. If you are asking what the first language spoken in North America was, no one kn … ows, because the first Americans didn't have a writing system.
English originated in England and is spoken as the first language in many parts of the world that were part of the British Empire-namely the United States, Canada, Australia … , New-Zealand.
Although we do not know what this first spoken language with grammar and syntax was, it is likely it appeared somewhere between 100,000 and 50,000 years ago in Africa. The first language of man is still part of us today. it is part of our primal vocabulary.
Every language in the world-from English to Mandarin-evolved from a prehistoric 'mother tongue' first spoken in Africa tens of thousands of years ago, a new study reveals.
Definition. First official language spoken is specified within the framework of the Official Languages Act. It refers to the first official language (. English or French) spoken by the person. Person refers to an individual and is the unit of analysis for most social statistics programmes.