1 A typical range is 10%-25% of the employee's first-year wages (gross wages, before taxes). 2  For example, Larchmont Employment Agency in New York specializes in child care and domestic placement services and charges families a nanny or housekeeper hiring fee of 15% of the employee's first-year wages.
Ninety percent of Fortune Magazine 500 companies use temp agencies, according to inc.com. A temp worker does not get benefits such as health insurance or a 401(k) like a normal employee, which may amount to 40 percent of a person's salary.
The average rate to hire a temp worker ranges between 25 and 100 percent of the employee's salary. A temp agency may charge around 150 percent of the worker's salary if the client requires someone with specialized technical skills.
1 When a business chooses to hire a temp agency as a permanent employee, the business must pay the temp agency a permanent staffing fee ranging from 10-25% of the employee's first-year salary.
Temporary staffing agencies and their business clients typically do not inform employees about how much the client actually pays the staffing agency for the employee's services, according to TechRepublic.
1 For example, if an employee earns $10 per hour from the temp agency, and the agency's markup is 50%, the employer will pay an extra $5 per hour to the temp agency for a total of $15 per hour. 2  Some large organizations have in-house temporary agencies which apply similar fees for their services.
Temp agencies are a lucrative and growing business. According to Employment Spot, the temporary work industry is worth at least $43 billion. These agencies make their money by charging their clients for furnishing qualified employees for a limited period of time.
Tweet. An employment agency, also called a recruitment or staffing agency, is a place for job seekers to find permanent work. According to Investopedia, there are two types of employment agencies: employer-paid and applicant-paid.
1 The typical fee for employers using a temp agency is 12-50% of the employee's hourly rate. 2  For example, if an employee earns $10 per hour from the temp agency, and the agency's markup is 50%, the employer will pay an extra $5 per hour to the temp agency for a total of $15 per hour.