Growth rate: slow-moderate Bloom Time: around May What colors do deciduous azaleas come in? Usually much warmer colors than evergreen azaleas, deciduous types are famous for their orange and yellow tones. Also available are reds and whites, with many intermediate tones such as peach and apricot. 
Or, weave a tapestry by planting groups of azaleas that flower at the same time. When working with color in your garden, do not mix too many bright colors together. Azaleas come in a broad spectrum of color: white, salmon, mauve, pink, purple, and all variations of red, orange, and yellow. Blend bright colors with paler shades or white, so as not to overwhelm. 
Encore azaleas offer many color choices that can be mixed and matched as quick as one, two or three! Color is one of the most powerful tools of landscape design. It can add a “wow” factor or create a sense of calm in the landscape. Three Color. Three or more colors in the garden is the chance to go a little crazy with color and add some real drama and interest to a landscape. A multi-colored garden palette can, however, pose some risk if put in the wrong hands.
From cool whites, pinks and lilac tones to warmer reds and orange hues, Encore azaleas offer many choices that can be mixed and matched as quick as, well, one, two or three! Check out our Color-Scaping Guide to learn more about the use of color or click here. To browse the Encore Azalea Collection, click here. Three Color. Three or more colors in the garden is the chance to go a little crazy with color and add some real drama and interest to a landscape. A multi-colored garden palette can, however, pose some risk if put in the wrong hands.
You will want to pay attention to the hardiness zone of the azalea you choose. Some azalea are strictly for the southern regions of the Unisted States. Azaleas can be evergreen or decidious. Evergreen azaleas come in a range of colors red, pink, white, purple, but not yellow. Decidious azaleas come in yellow and pink. In Northeast Arkansas and the Bootheel of Missouri (and depeding on the variety), azaleas bloom in the months of April, May and June. 
Orange. Azaleas of yellow and orange often fade in between the two colors on the same bush, producing an attractive variation of color. The orange tones of the azalea flower inspire feelings of energy, rejuvenation and pride. Orange azaleas grow well with flowers of like colors, such as marigolds and some cone flowers. The color red denotes bold passion, romance, love and desire. Planting red azaleas throughout your yard corresponds well with flowers of contrasting colors like white, bright yellows and pale pinks. Grow a red azalea bush near garden trellises or fence lines to accompany climbing flowers like pink bleeding heart vines.
Growth rate: slow-moderate Bloom Time: around May What colors do deciduous azaleas come in? Usually much warmer colors than evergreen azaleas, deciduous types are famous for their orange and yellow tones. Also available are reds and whites, with many intermediate tones such as peach and apricot. Deciduous azaleas are also very good at producing bi-colored blooms, often red and white, or several differing shades fading together. As the number of hybrids increase, so does the color range.
Red. Red azaleas look beautiful with flowers of contrasting colors such as white and light pinks. Red azaleas are known for their bold, bright blooms and these bushes look nice placed along a white fence because of the contrast of the two colors. Red denotes passion, love and romance. Most azalea varieties bloom in mid-April to mid-May. All North American or native species of azaleas are deciduous and easy to grow. They are disease resistant and make an attractive addition to any landscape. They are over 1000 varieties of azaleas that come in many different colors. Some are vivid, sparkling shades, while others are soft pastels or pure whites. Their blooms produce a light, floral scent
White azaleas are a commonly used azalea. White azaleas can be used as an accent plant to a garden that includes vibrant, bright colored flowers. They provide contrast and can produce a cottage-like feeling to your landscaping. White colored flowers denote innocence and purity. Most azalea varieties bloom in mid-April to mid-May. All North American or native species of azaleas are deciduous and easy to grow. They are disease resistant and make an attractive addition to any landscape. They are over 1000 varieties of azaleas that come in many different colors. Some are vivid, sparkling shades, while others are soft pastels or pure whites. Their blooms produce a light, floral scent