Antacids are used commonly for symptoms such as heartburn, abdominal pain (sometimes described as sour stomach) and nausea resulting from a number of conditions such as, inflammation or acid-peptic ulcers of the esophagus (esophagitis), stomach (gastritis), and duodenum (duodenitis). Magnesium oxide antacids are used to treat magnesium deficiencies from either diets or medications that cause magnesium depletion. Off label (not FDA-approved) uses for antacids containing aluminum and magnesium or aluminum alone include preventing bleeding from stress-induced ulcers.
Antacids are used to relieve acid indigestion, upset stomach, sour stomach, and heartburn. Additional components of some formulations include dimethicone, to reduce gas pains (flatulence) and alginic acid, which, in combination with antacids, may help manage GERD (gastro-esophageal reflux disease). 
Side Effects of Antacids and Acid Blockers. To understand the side effects of antacids and acid blocking drugs it is useful to examine why they exist, how they work and what they do to the gastric system. Common US brands of over the counter antacids include: Pepto-Bismol, Milk of Magnesia, Rolaids, Tums, Alka-Seltzer, Mylanta, Rolaids, Maalox, and Gaviscon. Natural antacids may also be present in your grocery cart in items such as sodium bicarbonate (baking soda).
Sodium bicarbonate is baking soda and is an antacid. Some facts about antacids are as follows: 1  Taken on an empty stomach, they only neutralize acid for 30 to 60 minutes because the antacid quickly leaves the stomach. 2  If taken with food, the protective effect may be 2 or 3 hours. 
Antacids containing aluminum (e.g. Maalox®, Mylanta ®) that neutralize stomach acid are composed of a metal ion (aluminum, magnesium, calcium, sodium) which is linked to an alkali (hydroxide, carbonate, bicarbonate, trisilicate). Antacids are used to relieve acid indigestion, upset stomach, sour stomach, and heartburn. Additional components of some formulations include dimethicone, to reduce gas pains (flatulence) and alginic acid, which, in combination with antacids, may help manage GERD (gastro-esophageal reflux disease).
Antacids may be used: 1  To reduce the symptoms of acid reflux which may cause heartburn or inflammation of the gullet (oesophagitis) . 2  To relieve some of the symptoms caused by ulcers in the stomach and part of the gut called the duodenum. 3  In other conditions where it is helpful to neutralise stomach acid. Antacids may be used: 1  To reduce the symptoms of acid reflux which may cause heartburn or inflammation of the gullet (oesophagitis) . 2  These conditions are sometimes called gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD). 3  To relieve some of the symptoms caused by ulcers in the stomach and part of the gut called the duodenum.
Antacids treat stomach acidity by neutralizing gastric hydrochloric acid or preventing the secretion of acid. Antacids can be used to treat: 1  heartburn. 2  indigestion. Some people have reported allergic reactions to antacids. Antacids can also increase the risk of developing sensitivity to certain foods and have been linked to possible bone fracture. Excessive use of antacids can lead to an overdose on calcium carbonate with magnesium, two common ingredients in many antacids.
Introduction. Antacids are a type of medication that can control the acid levels in your stomach. They're available over the counter from pharmacies and are often used to treat the symptoms of heartburn and indigestion. Some antacids also coat the surface of the oesophagus (gullet) with a protective barrier against stomach acid, or produce a gel on the stomach’s surface which helps stop acid leaking into the oesophagus and causing acid reflux.