Many people believe that American biologist James Watson and English physicist Francis Crick discovered DNA in the 1950s. In reality, this is not the case. Rather, DNA was first identified in the late 1860s by Swiss chemist Friedrich Miescher. The 3-dimensional double helix structure of DNA, correctly elucidated by James Watson and Francis Crick. Complementary bases are held together as a pair by hydrogen bonds. © 2013 Nature Education All rights reserved.
In 1962, Crick was awarded a Nobel Prize for discovering the structure of DNA, along with fellow scientists James Watson and Maurice Wilkins. Several people posted comments about our story that noted one name was missing from the Nobel roster: Rosalind Franklin, a British biophysicist who also studied DNA. 
Chargaff's realization that A = T and C = G, combined with some crucially important X-ray crystallography work by English researchers Rosalind Franklin and Maurice Wilkins, contributed to Watson and Crick's derivation of the three-dimensional, double-helical model for the structure of DNA. The 3-dimensional double helix structure of DNA, correctly elucidated by James Watson and Francis Crick. Complementary bases are held together as a pair by hydrogen bonds. © 2013 Nature Education All rights reserved.
It was Watson and Crick's landmark paper that detailed the double helical structure of DNA, but there is also a long list of inspirational scientists who played key roles in one of the biggest discoveries of the twentieth century. slide 1 of 1. 
A+E Networks. On this day in 1953, Cambridge University scientists James D. Watson and Frances H.C. Crick announce that they have determined the double-helix structure of DNA, the molecule containing human genes. The discovery of DNA by James Watson and Frances Crick being a major one for the scientific community. Not only was DNA discovered on this day, but the Republican Party was founded in Wisconsin.
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. 
The Discovery of DNA's Structure. Taken in 1952, this image is the first X-ray picture of DNA, which led to the discovery of its molecular structure by Watson and Crick. Created by Rosalind Franklin using a technique called X-ray crystallography, it revealed the helical shape of the DNA molecule. Watson and Crick realized that DNA was made up of two chains of nucleotide pairs that encode the genetic information for all living things. Credits: Photo of Rosalind Franklin courtesy of Vittorio Luzzati.
In fact, Watson and Crick were worried that they would be scooped by Pauling, who proposed a different model for the three-dimensional structure of DNA just months before they did. In the end, however, Pauling's prediction was incorrect. The 3-dimensional double helix structure of DNA, correctly elucidated by James Watson and Francis Crick. Complementary bases are held together as a pair by hydrogen bonds. © 2013 Nature Education All rights reserved.
Instead, it was Franklin's famous photograph 51 that finally revealed the helical structure of DNA to Watson and Crick in 1953. This picture of DNA that had been crystallized under moist conditions shows a fuzzy X in the middle of the molecule, a pattern indicating a helical structure. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside and the four different bases are on the inside of the DNA molecule. The two strands of the double helix are anti-parallel, which means that they run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside of the helix, and the bases are on the inside.