Near End Rhymes – 20370 rhymes. Words that rhyme on the vowel-based rhyme sound of the last syllable only (for instance: “maybe” and “eat”). Near End Rhymes generally (but not always!) suck. Nonetheless, we provide them for you just in case you may find something useful. telepathic. 
The word rhyme can be used in a specific and a general sense. In the specific sense, two words rhyme if their final stressed vowel and all following sounds are identical; two lines of poetry rhyme if their final strong positions are filled with rhyming words. A rhyme in the strict sense is also called a perfect rhyme. 1 Broken rhyme is a type of enjambement producing a rhyme by dividing a word at the line break of a poem to make a rhyme with the end word of another line. 2  Cross rhyme matches a sound or sounds at the end of a line with the same sound or sounds in the middle of the following (or preceding) line.
Any word ending in-it will rhyme with the word it.   A couple of examples: Bit, lit, spit, wit, nit, kit, and mit.   There are others, but just too many to list...and a few that are inappropriate for this media, so therefore, I will not list them.... + 53 others found this useful. What rhymes with me? Bee, fee, flea, flee, free, gee, he, key, knee, pea, plea, see,  sea, she, ski, tee, tea, thee, tree, and we are just some of the  many, many words that rhyme with me.
Hoagland Howard Carmichael. This seems to be a phrase that rhymes with michael and is based on the spelling of michael and hoagland howard carmichael only. 1  Change 19 letters for hoagland howard carmichael to become michael. 2  michael is 42% similar to hoagland howard carmichael. Here's a large list of voted rhymes for michael. Michael starts with m and mi, ends in l and el. Rhymes with and sounds like 52 words. It's English, is 7 letters long with the letters acehilm, 4 consonants, 3 vowels and 2 syllables. I've filtered all results to show only verified rhymes by votes and evaluation.
MICHAEL & Numerology. The sum of alphabetical order of letters in MICHAEL is 51: M C H A E LTOTAL13938151251. Most common names with the same arithmetic sum of 51 are: gary, paula, irene, kaur, lyn, claudia, mohan, hugo, denis, lydia, gray, thanh, irina, gopal, armand, rolf, price, asher, traci, suk. MICHAEL is the most popular 3 .rd name in USA (... 1. john, 2. david, 3. michael, 4. robert, 5. james ...). One in every 29 Americans is named MICHAEL and popularity of name MICHAEL is 34.95 people per thousand.
Some two syllable words that rhyme with to are accrue, adieu, ado, all too, and you, anew, askew. Some three syllable words that rhyme with to are baby shoe, beef fondue, belyeu, benhamou, black bamboo, bomber crew, book review, bottle screw, bowling shoe. What rhymes with me? Bee, fee, flea, flee, free, gee, he, key, knee, pea, plea, see,  sea, she, ski, tee, tea, thee, tree, and we are just some of the  many, many words that rhyme with me.
That Almost Rhyme. B-Rhymes is a rhyming dictionary that's not stuck up about what does and doesn't rhyme. It gives you words that sound good together even if don't technically rhyme. 
How to Get Definitions for Rhyming Words. Highly Recommended!—Just download Google Chrome, add the Google Dictionary Extension, restart Chrome, and then click on a word to see its definition. You can also hear audio pronunciation
A rhyme is a repetition of similar sounds (or the same sound) in two or more words, most often in the final syllables of lines in poems and songs. 1 Broken rhyme is a type of enjambement producing a rhyme by dividing a word at the line break of a poem to make a rhyme with the end word of another line. 2  Cross rhyme matches a sound or sounds at the end of a line with the same sound or sounds in the middle of the following (or preceding) line.