The higher your INR is, the longer it takes your blood to clot. In other words, as the INR increases above a given level, the risk of bleeding and bleeding-related events increases. On the other hand, as the INR decreases below a given level, the risk of clotting events increases. So, the INR is really just the standard unit used to report the result of a PT test. There are a few things worth mentioning about the INR. First, an individual whose blood clots normally and who is not on anticoagulation should have an INR of approximately 1.
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a standardized number that's figured out in the lab. If you take blood thinners, also called anti-clotting drugs or anticoagulants, it's especially important to check your INR. The INR is figured out using the results of the prothrombin time (PT) test, which measures the time it takes for your blood to clot. The INR is an international standard for the PT.
INR stands for International Normalized Ratio. As its name suggests, one INR result can be compared to another INR result regardless of how or where the result was obtained. So, the INR is really just the standard unit used to report the result of a PT test. There are a few things worth mentioning about the INR. 
Prothrombin time (PT) is a blood test that measures how long it takes blood to clot. A prothrombin time test can be used to check for bleeding problems. PT is also used to check whether medicine to prevent blood clots is working. A PT test may also be called an INR test. INR (international normalized ratio) stands for a way of standardizing the results of prothrombin time tests, no matter the testing method. So your doctor can understand results in the same way even when they come from different labs and different test methods
If your INR falls below the low-end of your target range, your risk of forming a blood clot may increase. Numerous factors can affect your INR, so it is important that you keep your clinician up-to-date on any changes in your life. So, the INR is really just the standard unit used to report the result of a PT test. There are a few things worth mentioning about the INR. First, an individual whose blood clots normally and who is not on anticoagulation should have an INR of approximately 1.
Warfarin is usually given once per day and the dose adjusted to put your INR in the target range. Bear in mind that taking too much warfarin can cause your INR to go too high at which point you might bleed from all kinds of places you don't want ... nose, ears, bowels. And the hard part is there's no fixed dose ... The higher the INR number, the thinner your blood. The lower the number the thicker your blood ... 1 is normal blood without blood thinners. And although we say thinner generally what that means is that it takes longer to clot. With an INR of 2, your blood takes twice as long as normal unthinned blood. When at home on thinners doctors try to set a target somewhere in the range of 2 to 3 ... higher than 3 requires very intense management
International normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation made to standardize prothrombin time. INR is based on the ratio of the patient's prothrombin time and the normal mean prothrombin time. Prothrombin time is a test to learn how fast the blood clots in patients receiving oral anticoagulant medication.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: INR stands for International Normalized Ratio. As its name suggests, one INR result can be compared to another INR result regardless of how or where the result was obtained. So, the INR is really just the standard unit used to report the result of a PT test. There are a few things worth mentioning about the INR. First, an individual whose blood clots normally and who is not on anticoagulation should have an INR of approximately 1.
The international normalized ratio (INR) is a calculation based on results of a PT and is used to monitor individuals who are being treated with the blood-thinning medication (anticoagulant) warfarin (Coumadin®). Someone who is not taking warfarin would compare their PT test result to the normal range provided with the test result by the laboratory performing the test. A prolonged PT means that the blood is taking too long to form a clot.