Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Older stars are red than young stars are blue. Explanation: Basically, the color of light that a star emits is somewhat related to its age, whereas the color of light that we actually observe from a star is related to the speed at which it's moving with respect to us. Stars emit colors of many different wavelengths, but the wavelength of light where a star's emission is concentrated is related to the star's temperature-the hotter the star, the more blue it is; the cooler the star, the more red it is.
Astronomers classify stars based on their age, color, and brightness. These characteristics help them identify and understand the different kind OS stars. A stars surface temp … erature determines the amount of visible light given off its brightness and the color we perceive the star to be. new stars are white-blue, older ones yellow (our Sun), oldest ones black (like a black hole if they are really big when babies). The color also depends on the size of t … he star; but that is another topic.
There is no direct method currently available to measure the distance to stars farther than 400 light years from Earth, so astronomers instead use brightness measurements. It turns out that a star's color spectrum is a good indication of its actual brightness. The Earth's orbit around the sun has a diameter of about 186 million miles (300 million kilometers). By looking at a star one day and then looking at it again 6 months later, an astronomer can see a difference in the viewing angle for the star.
Source(s): Theories: 1.Doppler Effect: light that is emitted by something moving away from us appear more red, and light emitted by something moving towards us appear more blue. 2.The brightness and color of a star depend on its surface temperature, which in turn depends on its mass. Stars emit colors of many different wavelengths, but the wavelength of light where a star's emission is concentrated is related to the star's temperature-the hotter the star, the more blue it is; the cooler the star, the more red it is.
When a star colour is blue, then the temprature of the surface can go from 20,000c to 50,000c. When a star colour is white then the temprature of the surface is around 10,000c … . If a star colour is yellow like the sun then the temprature of the surface is around 6,000c. If the star your looking at is red then it is not really hot, the temrature of the surface can go up to 3,000c. new stars are white-blue, older ones yellow (our Sun), oldest ones black (like a black hole if they are really big when babies). The color also depends on the size of t … he star; but that is another topic.
The color of a star is an indication of its brightness, temperature, and age. Stars are classified into groups called spectral types.. From oldest to youngest and hottest to coolest, the types of stars are: 