Bistec de lomo (also called filete de lomo)  is a steak cut from the tenderloin of beef, the most expensive part of any cow, Cuban or American. It's the same cut as the filet mignon. It may be sliced into steaks and even cooked whole as in this recipe. Bistec de bola  a type of round tip steak. This one is cut from a trimmed round tip roast. Before cut into steaks, this part of the cow looks like a very large ball  although it's not perfectly round! (See bistec de sapito.) Always cut very thin and may be mechanically or manually tenderized.
Bistec empanizado (Spanish for 'breaded beefsteak') is a Mexican dish of pieces of salted and peppered sirloin, usually flattened with a meat tenderizing tool, covered in bread crumbs and fried. The dish is usually served in tortillas as a taco. The Tagalog people of the Philippines have a version of bistec known as bistek Tagalog, which is typically made with onions and strips of sirloin beef slowly cooked in soy sauce and calamansi juice. It is known in the Spanish-speaking world as bistec encebollado. 
Recipe for Mexican Steak (Bistec a la Mexicana). The Bistec a la Mexicana is a popular dish all over Mexico, and its recipe varies depending of which part of Mexico you are. This is a mexican dish that is easy to prepare, but as with most meat recipes it can be tricky to make it perfectly. In this recipe, the meat is cooked rather rapidly, so it is important to use a beef cut that is tender; in fact for this recipe I recommend Sirloin steak.
I decided to cook this delicious beef steak with onions (bistec encebollado) after receiving an email from one of my visitors. She needed a steak recipe for a dominican friend and it inspired me to cook this recipe to post it here with all the pictures I took. 
1 Season the beef shaved steak with 1 tsp. each of salt and garlic powder. 2  Heat a skillet over high heat on the stove. 3  Add 1 tbsp. of olive oil to the heated skillet. 4  Add in the package of beef shaved steak. 5  Cook for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 6  Remove the beef shaved steak from the skillet and set aside. Instructions. 1 
A Flavorful Main Course Bistec Encebollado, or steak and onions, is a spiced, flavorful skillet steak prepared with a classic Adobo-garlic rub. 2. Heat oil in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add beef, onions, and marinade to the pan; cover the pan and cook, stirring occasionally, until onions turn translucent and beef is cooked through, about 10 minutes. 3. Evenly divide meat among serving dishes; top with onions and drizzle with sauce
Bistec Encebollao. 51. Made time s. 15. Recipe by: HANZOtheRAZOR. Use any cut of steak when making this easy beef stew. Marinated in oil, oregano, vinegar, and onions, this is a great meal for a busy weeknight. A staple in Puerto Rican cooking. Serve with white rice and tostones