An injectable form of the drug is also available. The injectable form of lorazepam is used for decreasing nervous tension and anxiety before surgery, as well as treating severe seizures (known medically as status epilepticus). Lorazepam is part of a group of medications called benzodiazepines. It is also approved for short-term relief of anxiety symptoms associated with depression. Lorazepam is not for everyday anxiety and is recommended only for short-term use (for two to four weeks or less).
Uses of This Medicine. Lorazepam is used to treat anxiety. This medicine is a benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines belong to the group of medicines called central nervous system (CNS) depressants, which are medicines that slow down the nervous system. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription
A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system). Lorazepam is intended to be taken only for a short period of time. Do not take this medication for longer than 4 months without your doctor's advice. Talk to your doctor about using alcohol while on lorazepam. Alcohol can worsen the side effects of lorazepam, such as drowsiness, confusion, and unsteadiness.
A: Ativan (lorazepam) is a benzodiazepine drug that acts as an anxiolytic (anti-anxiety drug), amnesic, sedative/hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and muscle relaxant. It's used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures, and sedation of hospitalized or aggressive patients. Lorazepam is intended to be taken only for a short period of time. Do not take this medication for longer than 4 months without your doctor's advice. Talk to your doctor about using alcohol while on lorazepam. Alcohol can worsen the side effects of lorazepam, such as drowsiness, confusion, and unsteadiness.
Lorazepam refers to a kind of medication, which is also popular as benzodiazepine. The effects of this type of drug are on the central nervous system. Generally, it can boost the benefits of GABA, which is a neurotransmitter that is responsible for calming the muscles and nerves of the body. 
Lorazepam is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders. Lorazepam is also used for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or to relieve anxiety associated with depressive symptoms. Lorazepam is thought to work by affecting brain chemicals that lessen abnormal brain excitement. Lorazepam is intended to be taken only for a short period of time. Do not take this medication for longer than 4 months without your doctor's advice. Talk to your doctor about using alcohol while on lorazepam. Alcohol can worsen the side effects of lorazepam, such as drowsiness, confusion, and unsteadiness.
BRAND NAME: Ativan. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Lorazepam is a drug used for treating anxiety. It is in the benzodiazepine family of drugs, the same family that includes diazepam (Valium), alprazolam (Xanax), clonazepam (Klonopin), flurazepam (Dalmane), and others. 
A: Lorazepam (Ativan) is a benzodiazepine used for the management of anxiety disorders or for short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety which is associated with depressive symptoms. The most common side effects with lorazepam are drowsiness, sedation and respiratory depression (shallow breathing). Lorazepam is intended to be taken only for a short period of time. Do not take this medication for longer than 4 months without your doctor's advice. Talk to your doctor about using alcohol while on lorazepam. Alcohol can worsen the side effects of lorazepam, such as drowsiness, confusion, and unsteadiness.
Lorazepam, sold under the brand name Ativan among others, is a benzodiazepine medication often used to treat anxiety disorders. Lorazepam is used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures including status epilepticus, and sedation of hospitalized patients, as well as sedation of aggressive patients. Due to tolerance and dependence, lorazepam is recommended for short-term use, up to two to four weeks only