Baltimore Oriole. Icterus galbula. One of the most brilliantly colored songbirds in the east, flaming orange and black, sharing the heraldic colors of the coat of arms of 17th-century Lord Baltimore. Widespread east of the Great Plains, Baltimore Orioles are often very common in open woods and groves in summer.
Size relative to a tea cup: The Baltimore oriole is Maryland's official state bird. This popular animal has also been the namesake of the state's professional baseball team, the Baltimore Orioles, since the late 19th century. Male orioles have brilliant orange-golden underparts and shoulder patches, with black wings and a black head. Baltimore orioles inhabit Maryland and the rest of the eastern United States only in the summer months. (They are also found, less commonly, in the central U.S. and Canada).
The Baltimore oriole is one of the few birds in North america that has orange colored feathers, it's sounds are here. As well as many other interesting varieties of Orioles found around the world. CATEGORY: ANIMALS/NATURE. #TAGS: Baltimore oriole, bird sounds, oriole sound, oriole, oriole audio. RIGHTS: PERSONAL. 
Baltimore orioles are neotropical migrants. They spend summers in the Nearctic, primarily the eastern United States. They breed from Wisconsin to Maine and south to central Mississippi and Alabama, northern Georgia, and western South Carolina and North Carolina. 
The Bullock's oriole (Icterus bullockii) is a small New World blackbird. At one time, this species and the Baltimore oriole were considered to be a single species, the northern oriole. This bird was named after William Bullock, an English amateur naturalist. 
The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula) is a small icterid blackbird common in eastern North America as a migratory breeding bird. It received its name from the resemblance of the male's colors to those on the coat-of-arms of Lord Baltimore. Research by James Rising, a professor of zoology at the University of Toronto, and others showed that the two birds actually did not interbreed significantly. The Baltimore oriole is the state bird of Maryland. It is also the inspiration for the Baltimore Orioles baseball club.
ATTRACTING ORIOLES! The oriole, which is a part of the blackbird family, is a welcome visitor in spring. The signature of the oriole is its vibrant orange and black coloring and its beautifully woven hanging nest, suspended pouch like from the very tips of tree branches. 
1 The Baltimore Oriole, found in the east, and the western Bullock’s Oriole were once considered to be the same species under the name Northern Oriole. 2  While they do inter-breed in areas where their ranges overlap, genetic studies have shown them to be two distinct species. 
Audio. The Baltimore oriole is Maryland's official state bird. This popular animal has also been the namesake of the state's professional baseball team, the Baltimore Orioles, since the late 19th century. Male orioles have brilliant orange-golden underparts and shoulder patches, with black wings and a black head. Baltimore orioles inhabit Maryland and the rest of the eastern United States only in the summer months. (They are also found, less commonly, in the central U.S. and Canada).
Baltimore orioles are found in the Nearctic in summer, primarily the eastern United States. They breed from Minnesota to Maine and south to central Mississippi and Alabama and northern Georgia. Research by James Rising, a professor of zoology at the University of Toronto, and others showed that the two birds actually did not interbreed significantly. The Baltimore oriole is the state bird of Maryland. It is also the inspiration for the Baltimore Orioles baseball club.