Introduction. This guide is written for teachers and students who are studying J.B. Priestley's play An Inspector Calls. The guide is written specifically for students in the UK, but I hope it may be helpful to users from other parts of the world. An Inspector Calls is a popular text for assessed work in drama for English and English literature exams. In the 1954 film of An Inspector Calls, the Inspector does not leave the Birlings' house as in the play: he is left alone in Mr. Birling's study; Birling returns to ask him a question, and finds the room empty.
'An Inspector Calls' was written by J.B Priestley in 1944. They can be in fact very foolish. Priestly puts across a clear message in the play is that being responsible for you is not enough to make the world a better place. 'An Inspector Calls' is a play by J B Priestley, which was written at ... He says: Everything's all right now, Sheila, expecting the engagement to be still on as it was before the Inspector's visit.
Storyline. Based on a famous stage play and set in the year 1912, an upper crust English family dinner is interrupted by a police inspector who brings news that a girl known to everyone present has died in suspicious circumstances. It seems that any or all of them could have had a hand in her death. 
Extracts from this document... Introduction. ENGLISH COURSEWORK An Inspector calls By Julhaz Miah 'An inspector calls' is set in 1912 but written in 1944 by the left wing politically minded writer J B Priestly. The play is about circumstances leading to the suicide of an unemployed and destitute woman. 'An Inspector Calls' is a play by J B Priestley, which was written at ... He says: Everything's all right now, Sheila, expecting the engagement to be still on as it was before the Inspector's visit.
For the 1982 TV series, see An Inspector Calls (TV series) . For the 2015 film, see An Inspector Calls (2015 film) . For the 2015 TV film, see An Inspector Calls (2015 TV film) . An Inspector Calls is a play written by English dramatist J. B. Priestley, first performed in 1945 in the Soviet Union and in 1946 in the UK. It is one of Priestley's best known works for the stage and considered to be one of the classics of mid-20th century English theatre. An Inspector Calls was first performed in 1945 in the USSR in two theatres (Kamerny Theatre in Moscow and Comedy Theatre in Leningrad), as an appropriate venue in the United Kingdom could not be found.
His first play was his own adaptation of The Good Companions in 1930 and it was followed by 41 others, including Dangerous Corner, Time and the Conways, When We Are Married, Johnson Over Jordan, An Inspector Calls and The Linden Tree, all written within a prolific 20-year period. 