The name Marie comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Marie is: Variant of Latin Mary: bitter. 
Marie Name Meaning. French and English: from the popular medieval female personal name, Latin Maria. This was the name of the mother of Christ in the New Testament, as well as several other New Testament figures. 
Marie /mar-ie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Latin origin, and the meaning of Marie is star of the sea. Variant of Mary. Earliest English form of the name which was revived in the 19th century. Scientist Marie Curie; Queen Marie Antoinette of Scots; singer Marie Osmond. 
Meaning of Marie. English name. In English, the name Marie means-Variant of Latin Mary: bitter.. Other origins for the name Marie include-English, French, Hebrew, French.The name Marie is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Latin Mary: bitter
Meaning & History. French and Czech form of MARIA. A notable bearer of this name was Marie Antoinette, a queen of France who was executed by guillotine during the French Revolution. Another was Marie Curie (1867-1934), a physicist and chemist who studied radioactivity with her husband Pierre. 
Usual English form of Maria, the Latin form of the New Testament Greek names μαριαμ (Mariam) and μαρια (Maria) - the spellings are interchangeable-which were from Hebrew מִרְיָם (Miryam) , a name borne by the sister of Moses in the Old Testament. 
English Meaning: The name Marie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Marie is: Bitter. French Meaning: The name Marie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Marie is: Bitter. American Meaning: The name Marie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Marie is: Bitter.
Marie is the Czech, French, and German form of Mary. Marie is also the variant of Maria for Danish, English, Icelandic, Norwegian, and Swedish, although Icelandic and sometimes Swedish borrowed it from French, or Norwegian. It is also a name derived from Mary and Maria. 
Origin of the name Marie: French cognate of Mary, which is derived from the Hebrew Miryām, a name of debated meaning. Many believe it to mean sea of bitterness or sea of sorrow.. However, some sources cite the alternative definitions of rebellion, wished-for child, and mistress or lady of the sea.. 
Meaning of Marie. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Marie means-Variant of Mary: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter.. Other origins for the name Marie include-Hebrew, French, English, French.The name Marie is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Variant of Mary: Wished-for child; rebellion; bitter. Origin-Hebrew.