The HIV-1 envelope glycoproteins, gp120 and gp41, are assembled into a trimeric complex that mediates virus entry into target cells. HIV-1 entry depends on the sequential interaction of the gp120 exterior envelope glycoprotein with the receptors on the cell, CD4 and members of the chemokine receptor family.
(cluster designation 4) symbol for a glycoprotein expressed on the surface of helper T lymphocytes and other immune cells. CD4 serves as a receptor for human immunodeficiency virus envelope glycoprotein gp120. Binding of the viral glycoprotein gp120 to CD4 is the first step in viral entry, leading to the fusion of viral and cell membranes.
The gp120 exterior envelope glycoprotein binds the CD4 glycoprotein on target cells, which triggers conformational changes in gp120 that allow binding to one of two chemokine receptors, CCR5 or CXCR4 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
gp120 is the name of the glycoprotein which forms the spikes sticking out of a HIV virus particle. Its main function is to bind to CD4 in human cells.
The structure of the HIV gp120 envelope glycoprotein allows direct visualization of two overlapping sets of machinery. One, involved in entry, binds to both CD4 and a chemokine receptor and transmits a signal to gp41 to initiate membrane fusion.
CD4 is a receptor for the HIV virus. When the HIV virus infects cells with CD4 surface proteins, it depletes the number of T cells, B cells, natural killer cells, and monocytes in the patient's blood. Most of the damage to an AIDS patient's immune system is done by the virus' destruction of CD4+ lymphocytes. CD4 is sometimes called the T4 antigen.
1 Structure of an HIV gp120 envelope glycoprotein in complex with the CD4 receptor and a neutralizing human antibody, Kwong PD, Wyatt R, Robinson J, Sweet RW, Sodroski J, Hendrickson WA.
Background: The gp120 exterior envelope glycoprotein of HIV-1 binds sequentially to CD4 and chemokine receptors on cells to initiate virus entry. During natural infection, gp120 is a primary target of the humoral immune response, and it has evolved to resist antibody-mediated neutralization.