Olympic Air (Greek: ολυμπιακή) is a regional airline, a subsidiary of the Greek airline carrier Aegean Airlines. It was initially formed from the privatization of the former Greek national carrier Olympic Airlines, a company that carried the name Olympic Airways from 1957 to the beginning of the 21st century. On 22 February 2010, Olympic Air and its main competitor Aegean Airlines announced they had reached an agreement to merge their operations, phasing out the Aegean brand.
At one time the proposed merger between Greek carriers Aegean Airlines and Olympic Air might have seemed like a marriage of equals, but the current reality is quite different. Based on scheduled ASKs (Available Seat Kilometres) in October, Aegean is 10 times larger than Olympic. 
Aegean Airlines is the largest Greek airline. From its Athens hub, Aegean flies to 16 destinations in Greece and more than 40 locations outside of Greece. Earn MileagePlus miles on all qualifying Aegean Airlines flights, as noted in the charts below. You’ll earn miles according to the booking class that you purchase. To receive mileage credit, present your MileagePlus number when you make reservations and make sure that it appears on your boarding pass at check-in.
Carry-on Baggage. Aegean Airlines allows all Economy passengers to carry-on 1 bag weighing up to 17.6 lbs (8 kg) and with maximum size requirements of 55 cm x 40 cm x 20 cm. Aegean Airlines
NEWS: Aegean Airlines have changed their free baggage allowance, with economy allowed only 1 bag to 20kg free, and Business Class 2 bags to 32kg. Also Aegean Airlines is planning to buy the other main Greek carrier, Olympic Air. Both carriers will continue to operate under separate brands after the acquisition. Aegean airlines is a small seemingly obscure airline based around the Greek islands which has suddenly and rather unexpectedly become a significant force in European aviation.
Aegean Airlines was founded as Aegean Aviation in 1987. It was originally a VIP/business air operation specialising in executive and air ambulance services. On 17 February 1992, it became the first airline to be issued with a Greek independent air operator's licence. In August 2010, Aegean Airlines became the first airline to commit to upgrading its Airbus A320 family fleet with FANS-B+ datalink system offered by Airbus, which will be obligatory by February 2015 across European Airspace.
Aegean Airlines (A3) is an international airline based in Greece. It serves over 134 routes in Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America. Aegean Airlines is also a member of Star Alliance, which currently has 28 member airlines that fly around the world. Aegean Airlines has a fleet of 49 aircrafts, which is about average among international airlines. Compared to the entire airline industry, the Aegean Airlines fleet has about 33 more planes than the average.
The Aegean Airlines name was adopted with the start of scheduled passenger services at the end of May 1999. Aegean's first commercial flights were in May 1999 from Athens to Heraklion, Crete and Thessaloniki with 2 brand-new wholly owned British Aerospace Avro RJ100. In August 2010, Aegean Airlines became the first airline to commit to upgrading its Airbus A320 family fleet with FANS-B+ datalink system offered by Airbus, which will be obligatory by February 2015 across European Airspace.
Aegean Airline's seats and cabin. Onboard Aegean Airlines is clean, new, efficient, but not particularly welcoming. Inflight meals are still complementary, but are of the cheese or ham roll variety. Aegean baggage allowance is one free bag in economy. Inflight entertainment is however basic, with only music channels, and that only if you are in business class where you are subjected to 6 different channels of Greek music noless. Aegean airlines is a small seemingly obscure airline based around the Greek islands which has suddenly and rather unexpectedly become a significant force in European aviation.
It also uses other Greek airports as bases, some of which are seasonal. It has its head office in Kifisia, a suburb of Athens. On 21 October 2012, Aegean Airlines announced that it had struck a deal to acquire Olympic Air, and the buyout was approved by the European Commission a year later, on 9 October 2013. Both carriers continue to operate under separate brands. In August 2010, Aegean Airlines became the first airline to commit to upgrading its Airbus A320 family fleet with FANS-B+ datalink system offered by Airbus, which will be obligatory by February 2015 across European Airspace.