Size. Southwest accepts luggage that is no more than 62 linear inches. This means the height, width and length of the bags you check must equal 62 inches or less. Checking larger items will cause you to incur a $50 fee per item that is larger than 62 inches. Southwest will accept items that equal as many as 80 linear inches
Some airlines provide weight requirements in addition to size requirements for carry-on luggage. Southwest Airlines does not have a maximum weight for carry-on bags. On short flights, you might not bother packing a carry-on bag because you can pass the time with ease. On a longer flight, however, a carry-on bag allows you to pack several items to keep you entertained.
Each airline has its own luggage policy regulating the size of carry-on and checked luggage. The regulations provide a smoother flying experience by limiting the amount of luggage in the cabin and by giving airlines a better idea of how much weight the plane is carrying. For example, Southwest Airlines (southwest.com) requires the dimensions of duffel bags to be no larger than 10 inches by 16 inches by 24 inches, and has no weight limitation for carry-ons. Measure each of your bag's dimensions -- the width, length and height -- to ensure it's within those measurements
Each passenger on Southwest Airlines (southwest.com) is permitted one regular carry-on bag and one small personal item. This item can be a camera, laptop, purse, briefcase, or food. Most of the rules governing carry-ons are made by TSA, and apply to passengers on all airlines. These rules include restrictions on large and potentially dangerous items, liquids and gels. Southwest Airlines also limits carry-ons to one bag and one small personal item per passenger, with a few exceptions.
1 The maximum size carry-on bag for most airlines is 45 linear inches (the total of the height, width, and depth of the bag). 2  Anything larger should be checked. 3  No oversize packages or luggage can be stowed onboard. Think Small…. 1  The maximum size carry-on bag for most airlines is 45 linear inches (the total of the height, width, and depth of the bag). 2  Anything larger should be checked.
Size Regulations. Carry-on baggage size regulations are set by each airline, rather than the Transportation Security Administration or another governing body. Southwest Airlines requires that carry-on baggage measures no more than 10-by-16-by-24 inches. When you arrive at the Southwest counter in the airport, you'll see a receptacle in which your carry-on bag must fit comfortably to be permitted onto the airplane. On short flights, you might not bother packing a carry-on bag because you can pass the time with ease. On a longer flight, however, a carry-on bag allows you to pack several items to keep you entertained.
Types of Baggage. Each passenger on Southwest Airlines (southwest.com) is permitted one regular carry-on bag and one small personal item. This item can be a camera, laptop, purse, briefcase, or food. Pet carriers can count as either a carry-on or personal item. Most of the rules governing carry-ons are made by TSA, and apply to passengers on all airlines. These rules include restrictions on large and potentially dangerous items, liquids and gels. Southwest Airlines also limits carry-ons to one bag and one small personal item per passenger, with a few exceptions.
In order to keep the passenger compartment uncluttered and safe, the airlines place rules and size limits on the luggage that each traveler can carry on the plane. The primary rule is the size limit stating that bags carried on board must be small enough to store below your seat or in the overhead compartment. Currently the basic rule is that carry on baggage must be no taller than 22 inches, no wider than 14 inches, and no deeper than 9 inches. In many cases, you'll also have to contend with limits on weight. 