Corn gluten feed is readily available in the southeastern USA and its price has been favorable when compared to other feeds. Corn gluten feed is a good feed for beef cattle; however, producers should be aware of some potential problems with this feedstuff. However, the form of energy in CGF is different from corn. Most of the energy in corn is from starch, whereas in CGF the energy comes from digestible fiber (bran fraction). Corn gluten feed is an excellent compliment to forage based diets because it is a low starch, high fiber energy source.
Feeding and Limitations: The moderate protein content (Table 2) and highly digestible fiber often make corn gluten feed an economical protein/TDN supplement for cattle. When corn gluten feed is included in a forage diet at 0.5 percent of body weight or less, the TDN value is equivalent to or greater than that of corn. Feed represents the largest single production expense for cattle operations. There are many different feedstuffs that can be included in rations for cattle, and there is nothing special about particular ingredients. What matters is the nutrients they provide.
Barley is a palatable cereal grain primarily used in livestock diets to supply energy. It provides slightly more crude protein and fiber than corn. Although it contains less energy than corn, it can be used in a similar fashion. However, it should be milled before use in livestock diets. Soy hulls consist primarily of the outer covering of the soybean and provide a highly palatable source of fiber, minerals, energy, and protein. The low lignin content makes them highly digestible to livestock. Readily fermented in the rumen, soy hulls supply both energy
Anaerobic digestion is a collection of processes by which microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen. The process is used for industrial or domestic purposes to manage waste and/or to produce fuels. Anaerobic digestion is widely used as a source of renewable energy. The process produces a biogas, consisting of methane, carbon dioxide and traces of other ‘contaminant’ gases. This biogas can be used directly as fuel, in combined heat and power gas engines or upgraded to natural gas-quality biomethane.
It is also seen in feedlot cattle that are introduced to a heavy grain diet too quickly. Wheat, barley, milo and corn are readily digestible grains. Wheat is considered the most digestible, followed by barley, then corn and grain sorghum. However, processing of the grain affects its digestibility. 
In addition to Avery's long list of cattle feed ingredients, microorganisms in the cow's rumen can manufacture protein from non-protein nitrogen such as urea, biuret and ammonia. Non-protein nitrogen is more economical than plant protein and gives cattlemen and animal nutritionists more options for feed rations. Food is fermented and further broken down in the rumen by microbes. The stable environment in the rumen with a pH of 5.5 to 7.0 and a temperature range of 37 to 40 degrees Celsius is conducive to microbial growth.
Whole seed can be fed to ruminants or processed for its oil content. In recent years, it has become widely used as feed. It is used heavily in the dairy industry as a source of fiber, protein, and energy. Cottonseed is high in TDN (90%) and crude protein (22%) and is a good feed for cattle. Supplies are seasonal and prices tend to be lowest in the fall. Feed represents the largest single production expense for cattle operations. There are many different feedstuffs that can be included in rations for cattle, and there is nothing special about particular ingredients. What matters is the nutrients they provide.
Energy Defined. Protein, carbohydrates, and fats provide energy in beef cattle diets. Energy is often referred to as digestible energy, net energy for maintenance (NEm), net energy for gain (NEg), net energy for lactation (NEl), and total digestible nutrients (TDN). On forage and feed quality analysis test results, digestible energy in Mississippi beef cattle diets is most commonly expressed as TDN.
Sorghum. Sorghum (milo) is a cereal grain primarily used in livestock diets to supply energy. Containing slightly more crude protein and similar energy to that of corn, sorghum is often used in a similar fashion as corn. The nutrient content of sorghum varies by region, variety, and growing conditions. Soy hulls consist primarily of the outer covering of the soybean and provide a highly palatable source of fiber, minerals, energy, and protein. The low lignin content makes them highly digestible to livestock. Readily fermented in the rumen, soy hulls supply both energy