Any disease or disorder affecting the functioning of ureters, kidneys, urinary bladder or the urethra are termed as urinary disorders. Some of the commonly observed urinary disorders include incontinence, interstitial cystitis, kidney failure, urinary tract infections and cancers of urinary tract. Thus, according to ayurveda, turmeric can be used to cure urinary disorders caused due to Kahpa component. These disorders are: 1  Thick and dense urine. 2  Colored, fouls smelling as if its mixed with flour. 3  Urine discharge accompanies with semen
Use of turmeric for a variety of urinary disorders. Curcumin is the active ingredient in turmeric that is responsible for its medicinal value. The antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-carcinogenic effect of curcumin treats various disorders. Thus, according to ayurveda, turmeric can be used to cure urinary disorders caused due to Kahpa component. These disorders are: 1  Thick and dense urine. 2  Colored, fouls smelling as if its mixed with flour. 3  Urine discharge accompanies with semen
Turmeric for Bladder Infections. ­. ­If you've ever had a bladder infection, you know how uncomfortable it can be. What you probably didn't know is that turmeric might help. Bladder infections usually involve frequent urination, a burning sensation while you urinate and the urge to urinate when you really don't have to.
Turmeric has anti-inflammatory properties so it can help prevent and treat kidney inflammation and kidney infections. It is also a natural remedy for relieving headache and pains for the patients. Turmeric And Kidney Health. Turmeric is a herb from the ginger family and it grows throughout the India. It is not only a widely used and favored spice in curry, but also of high medical values.
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders.
Therefore 5% of 250 mg of the turmeric is curcuminoids, which makes it about 12 mg. in total, this curcumin-turmeric supplement has a total of 500 mg of which about 250 mg is pure curcumin. We provide the highest curcumin quality we can find. Read your stuff on curcumin. Benefit of turmeric root extract In lab tests, the active ingredient in turmeric, called curcumin, can enhance the cancer-fighting power of treatment with TRAIL, a naturally occurring molecule that helps kill cancer cells. TRAIL stands for tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand.
A urinary tract infection affects as many as 8 million people every year, according to the National Kidney and Urologic Diseases Information Clearinghouse. This type of infection is caused when bacteria breach the layers of the urinary tract and immune system, infiltrating the ureters and bladder. Urinary tract infections are generally treated with the use of antibiotics, however, these medications kill both good and bad bacteria indiscriminately. Some dietary supplements, including herbs and spices, may help reduce the incidence of urinary tract infections or help your body fight the bacteria that cause them. 
Urinary System. Turmeric for urinary tract cancer: the anti-angiogensis effect of curcumin suppresses the proliferation of cancer cells. Turmeric also initiates the apoptosis (cell death) process in the cancer cells and supports the chemotherapy process offering faster relief from cancer. Thus, according to ayurveda, turmeric can be used to cure urinary disorders caused due to Kahpa component. These disorders are: 1  Thick and dense urine. 2  Colored, fouls smelling as if its mixed with flour. 3  Urine discharge accompanies with semen