1 BA = Bachelor of Arts degree BS = Bachelor of Science degree. 2  I think the question requires more of an explanation than what the terms BA and BS translate to. 3  B.A. (Bachelor of Arts) A bachelor of arts (B.A.) degree is what is generally called a liberal arts degree. 1 I think the question requires more of an explanation than what the terms BA and BS translate to. 2
Students in a B.S. degree program usually must enroll in certain general education courses in order to satisfy the requirements for graduation. These typically liberal arts-based classes, including psychology, English composition, and economics, are usually taken in the first two years of the degree program. Compared to Bachelor of Arts programs, Bachelor of Science degree programs often place less emphasis on the liberal arts education and more emphasis on science, mathematics, and the major field of study. Because of this, many liberal arts colleges award B.A. degrees instead of B.S. degrees.
There are two parts; one can classify the educational level of the degree: B stands for bachelor's degree; M stands for master's degree; and D stands for doctoral degree. The second part denotes the discipline of the degree, like S for science, A for arts, or Ph for Philosophy. 
A certificate or diploma evidencing the granting of a bachelor's degree. A Bachelor of Arts (BA, B.A. , AB or A.B.), from the Latin artium baccalaureus or baccalarium artium is a bachelor's degree awarded for an undergraduate course or program in either the liberal arts, the sciences, or both. The Bachelor of Arts degree is usually attained in four years in Afghanistan, Lebanon, Armenia, Greece, Bangladesh, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Iran, Japan, Nigeria, Serbia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, the Russian Federation, Ireland, South Korea, Iraq, Tunisia, Kuwait, and Turkey, and most of the Americas.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. BA stands for Bachelor of Arts, MS stands for Master of Science, MA stands for Master of Arts, PhD stands for Doctor of Philosophy.The order of course for Biology is BS(Bachelor of Science) then MS then PhD. Unless you will proceed to medicine course, Biology Course is a prerequisite for proper medicine courses. However, some biology degrees can be BA's (like for that of going into teaching programs), so it depends. If you want to be a Biology Teacher aim for a BS or BA (rare to find for bio) in Biology, or if you are aiming for something like a doctor, pediatrician go for BS.
Bachelor's Degrees. There are two different types of bachelor's degrees: a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) and a Bachelor of Science (B.S.). Both are considered undergraduate degrees and require about four to five years of study. Master's Degrees. A graduate, advanced or master's degree is the next step. A Master of Arts (M.A.) or a Master of Science (M.S.) degree usually takes about two additional years to earn, and it often requires students to perform original research and write a thesis.
The traditional undergraduate degrees awarded by Harvard University are the A.B. and S.B. The A.B. is an abbreviation of the Latin name for the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree “artium baccalaureus.” The S.B., Latin for “scientiae baccalaureus,” is the Bachelor of Science (B.S.).
A Bachelor of Arts is entitled to the designation B.A. for an ordinary/pass degree and B.A. (Hons) for an honours degree. Students who completed an honours B.A. sometimes style themselves by '(Hon)' or '(Hons)' after the degree abbreviation in parenthesizes. The Bachelor of Arts degree is usually attained in four years in Afghanistan, Lebanon, Armenia, Greece, Bangladesh, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Iran, Japan, Nigeria, Serbia, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, the Russian Federation, Ireland, South Korea, Iraq, Tunisia, Kuwait, and Turkey, and most of the Americas.
It is a bachelor of the arts degree. As a rule of thumb, a BA usually means you should go to graduate school, where as a BS (Bachelor of Science) means you are ready for the workforce. · just now. Report Abuse. BA stands for Bachelor of Arts BSc is Bachelor of Science So a BA degree in Science and Literature is a bit odd, but might be because most of the study credits come from Literature, with some Science topics. Another Nickname · 7 years ago. Thumbs up