Shirt. In some instances, an interviewer might encourage you to dress casually. If the recruiter or hiring manager insists that you not wear a suit jacket or sport coat, don a shirt and tie. Alternatively and as seasonally appropriate, wear a sweater, shirt and tie. If you're a guy, your interview attire is relatively simple: A dark suit with a basic-color shirt and tie are appropriate, regardless of the position you're interviewing for.
Color. Don't wear loud or gaudy colors to a job interview, whether in a suit, shirt or tie. Basic suit colors like navy, gray or brown are your best bet for projecting a professional image that doesn't distract the interviewer's attention or make you the laughingstock of the HR department. If you're a guy, your interview attire is relatively simple: A dark suit with a basic-color shirt and tie are appropriate, regardless of the position you're interviewing for.
Advertisement. I'm thinking of heading over to the store before my interview to get one. I feel that a suit vest is too much but for some reason, I now feel weird without something over my dress shirt. Click to expand... Who-done-did-it, Dec 16, 2010. Date Posted: Dec 16, 2010 #3
Lace-up wingtip shoes or loafers in black, brown or navy are entirely appropriate for an interview, and coordinate nicely with dark-colored suits. Don't wear shoes that are in ill repair -- make sure your shoes are neatly polished without scuffs or stains. If you're a guy, your interview attire is relatively simple: A dark suit with a basic-color shirt and tie are appropriate, regardless of the position you're interviewing for.
With comfortable, professional clothes in mind, it is OK to wear a blazer or sweater over a tie and chinos when dressing for a job interview in the service industry. You want to look responsible and well-pressed as well as approachable to the public. Dress code: For the interview and the work afterward, pair a crisp shirt with a conservative tie under a J.Crew Shawl-Collar Cardigan sweater. For the interview at least, wear trousers or corduroy pants, but experiment with dark-washed jeans once you have the job. The dress code in the work world has changed, which means there are a number of fashion pitfalls to be made by the uninitiated.
I like to wear a sweater over my dress shirt sometimes as well. I will also throw in a tie if it's appropriate. I_tipped_Mr_Pink said: I'm thinking of heading over to the store before my interview to get one. I feel that a suit vest is too much but for some reason, I now feel weird without something over my dress shirt. Click to expand... Who-done-did-it, Dec 16, 2010. Date Posted: Dec 16, 2010 #3.
Women's Business Casual Attire Shirt-A dress shirt with a collar; a blouse without a collar; a dress sweater; a turtleneck; a sweater over a shirt with a collar. As with professional attire, make sure that your shirt or blouse is not sheer or low cut, and try to avoid distracting patterns or painfully bright colors. Shoes/Belt-Be sure to wear a belt and shoes that are in good condition. Athletic shoes, slide-ons, and flip-flops are not acceptable in a professional environment. Women's Professional Dress A two piece pants or skirt suit: black, charcoal, or navy are the most conservative colors, however most dark colors are fine.
Reputation: 147. Advertisements. I got into an argument with a pompous friend who used to work for a fortune 100 corporation (not in HR though). He stated that a man should not wear a black shirt with his suit and tie to an interview because the male applicant will come across as a gangster or a Mafia member. 
Well, i wore a collared shirt with a V-neck under it to my interview and I got my job... But i'm a girl... So I'd stick with the suit.. I don't think they'd base it AT ALL on how you look in a suit.. but if it will make you more confident to wear a sweater, go for it, but make sure it looks formal enough! I have a pretty big job interview coming up, the kind you would normally wear a suit to, and was wondering what you people would think if instead I wore like a pretty formal sweater ensemble?