The thyroid gland is an endocrine gland that produces thyroid hormones that regulate many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolic processes are activities that occur in cells, involving the release of energy from nutrients or using energy to create other substances. The parathyroid glands also regulate calcium levels in the body and increase calcium in the blood. The parathyroid glands also help regulate phosphorus levels. Below is information about the structure and function of the canine thyroid gland.
All rights reserved. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits low on the front of the neck. Your thyroid lies below your Adam’s apple, along the front of the windpipe. The thyroid has two side lobes, connected by a bridge (isthmus) in the middle. The thyroid secretes several hormones, collectively called thyroid hormones. The main hormone is thyroxine, also called T4. Thyroid hormones act throughout the body, influencing metabolism, growth and development, and body temperature.
Thyroid gland: A gland that makes and stores hormones that help regulate the heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature, and the rate at which food is converted into energy. Thyroid hormones are essential for the function of every cell in the body. 
Two tiny parathyroid glands are associated with each thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands also regulate calcium levels in the body and increase calcium in the blood. The parathyroid glands also help regulate phosphorus levels. Below is information about the structure and function of the canine thyroid gland. We will tell you about the general structure of the thyroid gland, how the thyroid gland works in dogs, common diseases that affect the thyroid gland and common diagnostic tests performed in dogs to evaluate the
The thyroid gland is a very vascular structure that consists of two large lobes connected by a broad isthmus. It is located just below the larynx on either side and in front of the trachea. 
The thyroid gland controls how quickly the body uses energy, makes proteins, and controls the body's sensitivity to other hormones. It participates in these processes by producing thyroid hormones, the principal ones being thyroxine (T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3), which is more active. Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency.
The thyroid and parathyroid glands are situated close to each other in the front of the neck. The thyroid gland produces the hormone thyroxine (T 4) and its more active form, T 3, which act on body cells to regulate metabolism (the chemical reactions continually occurring in the body). Some thyroid cells secrete the hormone calcitonin, which lowers calcium in the blood. Thyroid and parathyroid hormones. Iodine from the diet is used to make the hormones T 4 and T 3. These hormones are produced by the thyroid gland and regulate body metabolism. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) and, to a lesser extent, calcitonin regulate levels of calcium and phosphate.
The thyroid gland produces the hormones thyroxine, triiodothyronine, and calcitonin. Thyroxine and triiodothyronine are produced by thyroid folliclar cells. Thyroid cells absorb iodine from certain foods and combine the iodine with tyrosine, an amino acid, to make thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). 
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency.
The thyroid gland is one of the body's most important endocrine organs. It is located in the neck just below the thyroid cartilage (Adam's apple) and cricoid cartilage. Although its size can vary, based on each individual's size and iodine intake, the thyroid generally weighs approximately 15-20 grams (1/2 - 3/4 oz). 