Rick Scott Re-Elected. Florida voters re-elected Republican Rick Scott as governor and delivered another big political defeat to the once rising career of Democrat Charlie Crist. The Associated Press declared Scott the winner Tuesday night with nearly all precincts reporting. He held nearly 49 percent of the vote to Crist's nearly 47 percent. 
Rick Scott, a wealthy Florida businessman, was first elected Florida's 45th governor on Nov. 2, 2010 and re-elected Nov. 4, 2014. 
Democrat Alex Sink has conceded the Florida governor’s race to Republican Rick Scott. “Unfortunately we just fell less than 100,000 votes of victory,” Sink said during a morning news conference in Tampa. “The fact that we came so incredibly close is really a remarkable statement that so many people believed in me.”. Pictured above: Now Florida’s governor-elect, Republican Rick Scott campaigns at Fran’s Country Grill in Molino last Friday. Pictured inset: Scott greets supporters at Fran’s. NorthEscambia.com photos, click to enlarge.
Republican-turned-Independent incumbent Governor Charlie Crist chose not to run for a second term. He instead ran (unsuccessfully) for the Senate seat vacated by Mel Martinez. Martínez this resulted in an open race For governor Of florida in Which Republican Rick scott narrowly Defeated Democrat Alex. sink The 2010 Florida gubernatorial election took place on November 2, 2010 to determine the Governor for the State of Florida. Republican-turned-Independent incumbent Governor Charlie Crist chose not to run for a second term. He instead ran (unsuccessfully) for the Senate seat vacated by Mel Martinez. martínez
Richard Lynn Scott. Rick Scott is a Republican elected governor of Florida in 2010. He defeated Democrat Alex Sink, the state's chief financial officer, in the closest governor's race since 1876. 
Rick Scott wins second term as governor. Rick Scott completed the historically expensive task of winning a second term as Florida's governor Tuesday night in a bitter fight with Democrat Charlie Crist settled by a sliver of votes. Aaron Deslatte and Anthony ManStaff Writers.
Crist was governor when the economy soured. News Release: Associated Press. BONITA SPRINGS, Fla. (AP) -- Florida Republican Gov. Rick Scott has won re-election, turning back former Republican Gov. Charlie Crist -- who was trying to return to office as a Democrat. Florida Republican Gov. Rick Scott wins re-election over former Gov. Charlie Crist. Judge Orders Teen Arsonist to Write 200 Apology Letters. Comments are posted from viewers like you and do not always reflect the views of this station.
Rick Scott wins a second term as Florida's governor. Rick Scott won a second term as Florida's governor Tuesday night after a historically expensive and bitter fight with Democrat Charlie Crist that was settled by a sliver of votes. Rick Scott completed the historically expensive task of winning a second term as Florida's governor Tuesday night in a bitter fight with Democrat Charlie Crist settled by a sliver of votes. Aaron Deslatte and Anthony ManStaff Writers.
BONITA SPRINGS, Fla. (AP) -- Florida Gov. Rick Scott's pledge to fix the state's economy keeps working. Scott narrowly edged Republican-turned-Democrat Charlie Crist on Tuesday. Scott won re-election by a margin of 48 percent to 47 percent. It was the second time that Scott won a close election. Florida Republican Gov. Rick Scott wins re-election over former Gov. Charlie Crist. Judge Orders Teen Arsonist to Write 200 Apology Letters. Comments are posted from viewers like you and do not always reflect the views of this station.
Scott re-elected in tough Florida governor's race. Alan Gomez, USA TODAY 5:39 a.m. EST November 5, 2014. Florida Republican Rick Scott defeated Democrat Charlie Crist in one of the most closely watched gubernatorial races in the country. Florida Gov. Rick Scott gives his victory speech on Nov. 4, 2014 in Bonita Springs, Florida. Scott won a tight race against opponent Charlie Crist (Photo: Erik Kellar, Getty Images).