Flowering Dogwood leaves turn bright red in the Fall. Susan J. Aldworth, Trees and Shrubs of the Campus of Iowa State University. Copyright, Mark Brand, UConn Plant Database. Flowering Dogwoods are one of our most common understory trees. Understory means that it grows beneath taller trees. This small tree grows about 30 feet tall. Its trunk usually isn't more than eight inches wide. The trunk is also short, with many spreading branches. Deer and rabbits also eat young Flowering Dogwoods. Some pests of this tree are dogwood borers, aphids, scale insects, and caterpillars of moths, such as Io Moth and tussock moths.
The flowering dogwood tree is a favorite ornamental among homeowners due to its year round appeal, unique branching structure and modest size. In the early spring, beautiful flowers bloom consisting of four white, pink or red bracts with clusters of small yellow flowers in the center. 
In the winter, the tree has an attractive silhouette with small buds at the tips of the branches. Flowering dogwoods grow to between 12 and 20 feet tall with a trunk diameter of 6 to 12 inches. They thrive in sun or shade. Those in full sun are shorter with better leaf color, especially in the fall. In the shade, they may have poor fall color, but they have a more graceful, open canopy shape. 
Like most dogwoods, Kousa dogwood has opposite, simple leaves, 4–10 cm long. The tree is extremely showy when in bloom, but what appear to be four, white petals are actually four spreading bracts below the cluster of inconspicuous yellow-green flowers. (Redirected from Kousa Dogwood). Cornus kousa (also Benthamidia kousa), the Kousa dogwood, is a small deciduous tree 8–12 m (26–39 ft) tall, in the dogwood family Cornaceae. It is native to Korea, much of China, Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Sikkim, Bhutan and the Ryukyu Islands. It is reported to be naturalized in Hawaii, Connecticut and New York State
Plant taxonomy classifies the red twig dogwoods (or redtwig dogwoods) I feature here as Cornus alba 'Elegantissima.' 'Elegantissima' is the cultivar name. A variant on this cultivar name is 'Argenteo-marginata.'. Plant Type: Red twig dogwoods are broadleaf, deciduous flowering shrubs. Characteristics of Red Twig Dogwood Shrubs: 'Elegantissima' red twig dogwoods grow to a height of 8', with a similar spread (sans pruning). They bear variegated leaves (greenish-gray with a white edge) and small white flowers that form in flat clusters. 
Dogwoods are noted for opposite leaves whose veins turn dramatically toward the apex when they reach the margin, and for large, showy flower petals. In truth, these petals are actually white or pink colored leaves that surround clusters of tiny, densely packed flowers. 
Growth Rate: Dogwoods grow at a slow to moderate rate (about 20 feet in 25 years). Ornamental Features: Each species brings its own value to the landscape. The flowers  of the flowering dogwood and kousa dogwood are not actually flowers, but bracts, which are modified leaves that look like petals. 
Cornus is a genus of about 30–60 species of woody plants in the family Cornaceae, commonly known as dogwoods, which can generally be distinguished by their blossoms, berries, and distinctive bark. Dogwoods have simple, untoothed leaves with the veins curving distinctively as they approach the leaf margins. Most dogwood species have opposite leaves, while a few, such as Cornus alternifolia and C. controversa, have their leaves alternate. Dogwood flowers have four parts.
Susan J. Aldworth, Trees and Shrubs of the Campus of Iowa State University Copyright, Mark Brand, UConn Plant Database Flowering Dogwoods are one of our most common understory trees. Understory means that it grows beneath taller trees. This small tree grows about 30 feet tall. Its trunk usually isn't more than eight inches wide. The trunk is also short, with many spreading branches. Deer and rabbits also eat young Flowering Dogwoods. Some pests of this tree are dogwood borers, aphids, scale insects, and caterpillars of moths, such as Io Moth and tussock moths.