Answers. Best Answer: The most weighty argument for colony rather that solitary development of protists, would have to be Darwin's theory of Evolution. A much higher degree of success in evolutionary processes for the colony based protists is statistically a given. Still random, but with less deviation from the consummate evolutionary line, natural selection needs the colony model to be workable on a reasonable time scale.
Protists are microscopical, unicellular eukaryotes. They generally live in water. In some cases, protists form colonies of individuals, though the individuals are generally autonomous. Historically, researchers referred these minuscule living beings to the kingdoms of larger organisms. The cellular organization of protists is more complex-they have a membrane-bound nucleus (and other organelles distinct from the cytoplasm)- and they are therefore called eukaryotes (true-nucleus). Animals, plants and fungi, being derived from protists, are also
Each mature Volvox colony is composed of numerous flagellate cells similar to Chlamydomonas, up to 50,000 in total, and embedded in the surface of a hollow sphere or coenobium containing an extracellular matrix made of a gelatinous glycoprotein. Volvox is a polyphyletic genus of chlorophyte green algae in the family Volvocaceae. It forms spherical colonies of up to 50,000 cells. They live in a variety of freshwater habitats, and were first reported by Antonie van Leeuwenhoek in 1700
The Amoeba, Paramecium, Euglena, and Volvox All are protists: eukaryotes that cannot be classified as animals, plants, or fungi. Classified by their movement and way of life. The Amoeba, Paramecium, Euglena, and Volvox Organelles in common • Nucleus • Cytoplasm • Food vacuoles: food that is being digested or broken down to provide the cell with energy. • Contractile vacuoles (vesicles): pump excess water from the cell; keeps water levels w/in the cell consistent.
Volvox (Protists) Movies. Straddling the plant and animal kingdoms, the protist Volvox forms stunning bright green colonial balls in water bodies that are enriched in nitrates. Found in puddles, ditches, shallow ponds and bogs, Volvox colonies reach up to 50,000 cells and may include daughter and granddaughter colonies. Volvox Video #1 - Spherical colonies of bright green Volvox cells rotate in unison; under oblique illumination with a playing time of 32 seconds. Choose a playback format that matches your connection speed: 56k modem | DSL/Cable/T1 | download the MPEG (3.33 MB).
Volvox (Protists). Straddling the plant and animal kingdoms, the protist Volvox forms stunning bright green colonial balls in water bodies that are enriched in nitrates. Found in puddles, ditches, shallow ponds and bogs, Volvox colonies reach up to 50,000 cells and may include daughter and granddaughter colonies. Spherical colonies of bright green Volvox cells rotate in unison; under oblique illumination with a playing time of 32 seconds. Choose a playback format that matches your connection speed: 56k modem | DSL/Cable/T1 | download the MPEG (3.33 MB).
The individual cells within the Volvox colony are round and feature a pair of flagella. The colony as a whole, up to 1 millimeter in diameter, can move through the water column, gracefully spinning, while moving their flagella in unison, seeking optimal light for photosynthesis. Volvox Video #1 - Spherical colonies of bright green Volvox cells rotate in unison; under oblique illumination with a playing time of 32 seconds. Choose a playback format that matches your connection speed: 56k modem | DSL/Cable/T1 | download the MPEG (3.33 MB).
Protists live in almost any environment that contains liquid water. Many protists, such as algae, are photosynthetic and are vital primary producers in ecosystems, particularly in the ocean as part of the plankton. Other protists include pathogenic species such as the kinetoplastid Trypanosoma brucei, which causes sleeping sickness and species of the apicomplexan Plasmodium which cause malaria.