A lemon powered light bulb is a great science project or even a great green solution for camping or power outages. Lemons are able to power many small electronic devices including light bulbs. The acid in the lemon causes a chemical reaction with the two metals inserted into the lemon, resulting in an electrical current. The following article outlines the process of powering a light bulb with a lemon.
Wiring several lemons in series (bulb-copper-lemon-zinc-connecting wire-copper-lemon-zinc-bulb) may do the trick. If you can't get a light bulb to work, try improvising a galvanometer to show the voltage. Do this by wrapping about ten turns of thin wire (insulated) around a small magnetic compass to form a coil.
Note About Lemon Energy. We've had some students do this project and then try to use the lemon battery to light a small flashlight's light bulb. The lemons did not work.
Project to Make a Battery From a Lemon. 1  18-gauge copper wire (smaller gauge will work too, but 18-gauge is stiffer). 2  Wire clippers. 3  Steel paper clip (Some people find that a 2-inch strip of zinc works better). 4  Sheet of coarse sandpaper.
1 A common switch can be inserted in the circuit so that you can turn your lemon powered light bulb on and off. 2  With a handful of lemons and some super bright LED's you can create some really useful lemon powered light bulbs that will last for a shocking amount of time.
In this simple experiment, we will be creating our own battery with the use of citrus fruits, with a power that is strong enough to make a small bulb light up. Later on, we will discuss how citrus fruits work as batteries.
Tips & Warnings. 1  A common switch can be inserted in the circuit so that you can turn your lemon powered light bulb on and off. 2  With a handful of lemons and some super bright LED's you can create some really useful lemon powered light bulbs that will last for a shocking amount of time.
The lemon battery is called a voltaic battery, which changes chemical energy into electrical energy. The battery is made up of two different metals (the steel paper clip and the copper wire). These are called electrodes, which are the parts of a battery where electric current enters or leaves the battery.