im·per·a·tive. adj. 1. Necessary or urgent: It is imperative that we continue to move with speed to make housing more affordable (Timothy Geithner). See Synonyms at urgent. im•per•a•tive. 1. absolutely necessary or required: It is imperative that we leave. 2. of the nature of or expressing a command.
Definition. A business imperative is a major change or goal a business undertakes. The company lays out an objective, develops a strategy and makes it known that it will obtain this goal. A business imperative is a major change or goal that your company promises to reach. Unlike an idea, an imperative does not have the option of not working.
Definition of CATEGORICAL IMPERATIVE. : a moral obligation or command that is unconditionally and universally binding. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The Definition of Business Imperative. A business imperative is a major change or goal that your company promises to reach. Unlike an idea, an imperative does not have the option of not working.
Imperative. Definition: Imperatives are verbs used to give orders, commands,warning or instructions, and (if you use please) to make a request. It is one of the three moods of an English verb (indicative, imperative and subjunctive). 
categorical imperative. n. 1. (Philosophy) (in the ethics of Kant) the unconditional moral principle that one's behaviour should accord with universalizable maxims which respect persons as ends in themselves; the obligation to do one's duty for its own sake and not in pursuit of further ends. 
categorical imperative. ( 1 in the ethics of Kant) the unconditional moral principle that one's behaviour should accord with universalizable maxims which respect persons as ends in themselves; the obligation to do one's duty for its own sake and not in pursuit of further ends. noun. ( 1 in the ethics of Kant) the unconditional moral principle that one's behaviour should accord with universalizable maxims which respect persons as ends in themselves; the obligation to do one's duty for its own sake and not in pursuit of further ends. 2  Compare hypothet
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. A strategic imperative is a business goal, objective or target that has the highest priority. Businesses often engage in strategic planning that evaluates the entire business and sets out a plan of action. 
Use imperative in a sentence. Show more usage examples... Kant's moral theory comes down to what is called the moral imperative , which states that one ought not perform an action unless one feels it is permissible for everyone to perform that same action. Nearby Terms. 1  impact fee. 2  impact/value fr... 3  impaired insure... 4  impaired proper... 5  impairment. 6  impairment char... 7  impairment of c... 8  impairment of l... 9  imperative. 10  imperfect compe... 11  imperfect defen... 12  imperfect infor... 13  imperfection. 14  imperial system. 15  impersonal acco... 16  impersonal comm... 17  impersonal serv...