Muscles of the Shoulder. The muscles of the shoulder bridge the transitions from the torso into the head/neck area and into the upper extremities of the arms and hands. For that reason, and because of the dexterity of the shoulder joint itself, the musculature of the shoulder is complex, ranging from massive prime mover muscles to finer stabilizer and fixator muscles. The shoulder (or humeroscapular) joint is formed by the articulation of the head of the humerus with the scapula.
The semispinalis capitis is a deep muscle on the back of the neck. It originates from the spine (7th cervical down to the 6th or 7th thoracic vertebrae) and inserts into the elongated area at the base of the skull. It is a deep muscle that lies under the trapezius. The levator scapula lies along the back and side part of the neck. It originates deep in the side of the neck near the base of the skull, passes down and back and inserts in the scapula (shoulder blade). As the name implies, this muscle is the shoulder blade lifter.
It is a ball-and-socket joint and the most freely movable joint in the body.... Click to read more below. The muscles of the shoulder bridge the transitions from the torso into the head/neck area and into the upper extremities of the arms and hands. For that reason, and because of the dexterity of the shoulder joint itself, the musculature of the shoulder is complex, ranging from massive prime mover muscles to finer stabilizer and fixator muscles. The shoulder (or humeroscapular) joint is formed by the articulation of the head of the humerus with the scapula.
The section of the spine at the neck region is called the cervical spine. It starts at the atlas (the top cervical vertebra) and continues down to the C7 vertebra. It protects the point of the spine that meets the brain and allows the neck to m... Read More. The neck is the start of the spinal column and spinal cord. The spinal column contains about two dozen inter-connected, oddly shaped, bony segments, called vertebrae. The neck contains seven of these, known as the cervical vertebrae. They are the smallest and uppermost vertebrae in the body.
Nevertheless, the exact number is difficult to define because different sources group muscles differently, e.g. regarding what is defined as different parts of a single muscle or as several muscles. Examples range from 640 to 850. 
The omohyoid muscle consists of two large triangles at each side of the neck united by a central tendon. It originates from the upper part of the scapula and runs upward along the neck behind the sternomastoid muscle and is inserted in the lower portion of the hyoid bone. The levator scapula lies along the back and side part of the neck. It originates deep in the side of the neck near the base of the skull, passes down and back and inserts in the scapula (shoulder blade). As the name implies, this muscle is the shoulder blade lifter.
The gluteal muscles   The gluteus maximus is the uppermost of the three muscles. It is the largest of the gluteal muscles and one of the strongest muscles in the huma … n body (see Muscle). It inserts at the iliotibial band and the gluteal tuberosity of the femur. Its action is to extend and outwardly rotate hip, and extend the trunk. 
This article describes the anatomy of the head and neck of the human body, including the brain, bones, muscles, blood vessels, nerves, glands, nose, mouth, teeth, tongue, and throat. The top section of the spine is the cervical section, which contains nerves that innervate muscles of the head, neck and thoracic cavity, as well as transmit sensory information to the CNS. The cervical spine section contains seven vertebrae, C-1 through C-7, and eight nerve pairs, C-1 through C-8.
Muscles of the Head and Neck. The muscles of the head and neck perform many important tasks, including movement of the head and neck, chewing and swallowing, speech, facial expressions, and movement of the eyes. Even the middle ear takes part in the muscular system of the head and neck. In fact, the smallest muscle of the skeleton is the stapedius, which measures around 1 millimeter (1/20th of an inch) in length.
The pectoralis minor is located underneath the pectoralis major. This thin triangle-shaped muscle runs up and down along the upper ribs. The major muscles in the upper torso include: 1  Trapezius: This muscle extends across the neck, shoulder, and back. 2  It allows for movement of the shoulders and shoulder blades. 3  Rhomboid major: Attached to the shoulder blade, this muscle is one of many that aids shoulder movement