1 The symbol that represents Brimstone is known as the Leviathan Cross, the alchemical symbol for Sulfur. 2  Due to Sulfur's association with hell, it is also used as a satanic symbol. 3  Horns resembling Brimstone's own were added to Team Fortress 2 on the December 3rd, 2014 patch. Trivia. 1  According to the Bible, Brimstone, which is possibly the ancient name for sulfur, evokes the acrid odor of volcanic activity. 2  It is used in conjunction with Fire in an idiomatic expression of signs of God's Wrath, often appearing in reference to the fate of the unfaithful.
The Leviathan Cross is sometimes referred to as Crux Satanus, which means the Satan Cross. Depicted on the bottom is an infinity sign (∞), and above is a double cross (‡). The Double cross symbolizes protection and balance between male and female. The infinity sign most likely means eternal rest/happiness, this may have been used by Anton Lavey in The Satanic Bible to represent that Hell, the kingdom of Satan, was actually an afterlife of pleasure, balance, and truth, while Christianity is a religion based off of corruption and lies.
(In some views, sulfur and salt are the parents of Mercury) The symbol of sulfur is often used as an identifying symbol by Satanists, due to sulphur’s historical asociation with the devil. A type of balance, which is what I strife to understand. Plus in alchemy, sulphur is read as one of the three primes: Sulfur (fluid connection between the High and the Low). Even though the actual symbol apparently is a triangle on top of a cross, LaVey had a reason to adopt it, and it fits.
1 According to the Bible, Brimstone, which is possibly the ancient name for sulfur, evokes the acrid odor of volcanic activity. 2  It is used in conjunction with Fire in an idiomatic expression of signs of God's Wrath, often appearing in reference to the fate of the unfaithful. Trivia. 1 
Sulfur (“Leviathan Cross”). A symbol for the alchemical element Sulfur, (Brimstone) which is spiritually analogous to the human soul. Alchemically, sulfur has the qualities of masculine, hot and dry. Combined with Mercury (feminine, cool and moist), the pair were considered the parents of all metals. A type of balance, which is what I strife to understand. Plus in alchemy, sulphur is read as one of the three primes: Sulfur (fluid connection between the High and the Low). Even though the actual symbol apparently is a triangle on top of a cross, LaVey had a reason to adopt it, and it fits.
Fire and brimstone (or, alternatively, brimstone and fire, translated from the Hebrew גפרית ואש) is an idiomatic expression of signs of God's wrath in the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) and the New Testament. In the Bible, they often appear in reference to the fate of the unfaithful. And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever (Revelation 20:10, KJV).
brim'-ston, brim'-stun (gophrith; to theion): The word translated brimstone probably referred originally to the pitch of trees, like the cypress. By analogy it has been rendered brimstone because of the inflammability of both substances. Sulphur existed in Palestine in early times and was known by most of the ancient nations as a combustible substance. The figurative use of the word brimstone to denote punishment and destruction is illustrated by such passages as Deuteronomy 29:23; Job 18:15; Psalms 11:6; Isaiah 30:33; Ezekiel 38:22; Luke 17:29; Revelation 9:17.
1 Fire and brimstone. 2  The symbol that represents Brimstone is known as the Leviathan Cross, the alchemical symbol for Sulfur. 3  Due to Sulfur's association with hell, it is also used as a satanic symbol. 4  Horns resembling Brimstone's own were added to Team Fortress 2 on the December 3rd, 2014 patch. Trivia. 1  According to the Bible, Brimstone, which is possibly the ancient name for sulfur, evokes the acrid odor of volcanic activity. 2  It is used in conjunction with Fire in an idiomatic expression of signs of God's Wrath, often appearing in reference to the fate of the unfaithful.
Brimstone (man now calls it sulfur/sulphur) is a lemon-yellow colored stone. Brimstone means, burning stone or, the stone that burns.. At left is a picture of brimstones and powdered brimstone. When a plain brimstone (like those to the left) is exposed to the air, nothing happens--but if a match is put to it, it will burn in a peculiar way, like a liquid fire, and it emits noxious fumes. The stone melts like wax but the dripping is a peculiar thick fire, like a piece of wax on fire.
An upside-down crucifix, however, is not a symbol of Satanism. That would be referred to as The Cross of St. Peter which was a key symbol to the religion of Lutheranism, which is a sub-religion of Christianity. In Alchemy, the Leviathan's cross is a symbol for sulfur, which is one the three essential elements of nature. In Asia, it's name is the Brimstone Symbol. The infinity sign most likely means eternal rest/happiness, this may have been used by Anton Lavey in The Satanic Bible to represent that Hell, the kingdom of Satan, was actually an afterlife of pleasure, balance, and truth, while Christianity is a religion based off of corruption and lies.