In a licensed taxi or minicab: 1  children under 3 years of age can travel without a child’s car seat or seat belt, but only on the back seat. 2  children aged 3 years or older can travel without a child’s car seat if they wear an adult seat belt.
No room for a third child seat. Children under 3 must be in a child car seat. If there’s no room for a third child seat in the back of the vehicle, the child must travel in the front seat with the correct child seat. Children over 3 years can sit in the back using an adult belt.
Even in states where the minimum front-seat age is 8, a younger child can sit in the front seat in certain circumstances. For instance, in California, children younger than 8 can ride up front in a car without rear seats, or when the back seat is filled with even younger little ones.
Each type of seat has specific age, height, and weight restrictions, and must be installed in a particular way. The law in New Mexico requires all children up to their 7th birthday, regardless of weight, and all children less than 60 pounds, regardless of age, to ride in a child safety seat (car seat or booster seat).
1 ALL children under the age of 8 whose height is less than 57 inches must ride in the backseat of a car. 2  A child is safer in the back and farthest away from the force of an airbag. 3  Remember that airbags are designed to save adults, and since they deploy with great force they can be fatal to children.
Children under 3 must be in a child car seat. If there’s no room for a third child seat in the back of the vehicle, the child must travel in the front seat with the correct child seat.
Children under the age of 13 should ride in the backseat. Holding a child in your lap or placing a car seat in the front seat instead of the back could put your child’s life in serious danger. Avoid using a used child car seat or one that has been in an accident.
Your child should be between 40 and 80lbs to be placed in a booster seat. I would not allow my children to be placed in the front seat unless you can disable the passenger airbags in your vehicle. Regardless of turning off your airbags it is safer for a child to sit in the back seat till they are out of
The laws can be very specific about what age, height, and weight a child must be to sit in a front seat. For example, in Colorado, where Brandi C. lives, children have to be 5 feet tall and 11 years old before they can ride in the front seat, she reports.