Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. Systemic arteries are the arteries (including the peripheral arteries), of the systemic circulation, which is the part of the cardiovascular system that carries oxygenated blood away from the heart, to the body arterioles, and then to the capillaries, where nutrients and gases are exchanged.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Pulmonary arteries transport blood that has a low oxygen content from the right ventricle to the lungs. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues. Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cell
Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart. They’re tough on the outside but they contain a smooth interior layer of epithelial cells that allows blood to flow easily. Arteries also contain a strong, muscular middle layer that helps pump blood through the body. Capillaries connect the arteries to veins. 
Best Answer: arteries carry blood away from the heart... except pulmonary vein... whuch carries blood from heart to lungs. so, what you read in your book is correct that vein also carries blood away from the heart. The type of vessel depends on... where it is taking blood... hope i helped. take care. 
The blood circulatory system (cardiovascular system) delivers nutrients and oxygen to all cells in the body. It consists of the heart and the blood vessels running through the entire body. The arteries carry blood away from the heart; the veins carry it back to the heart. The system of blood vessels resembles a tree: The trunk, the main artery (aorta), branches into large arteries, which lead to smaller and smaller vessels. The largest artery in the body. It carries oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to vessels that reach the re... Atria. The chambers of the heart, to which the blood returns from the circulation.... Blood. A tissue with red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, and other substances suspended in fluid called p...
The blood vessels that carry blood to the heart include the superior and inferior blood vessels, the coronary sinus, and the pulmonary veins. Blood vessels that carry blood aw … ay from the heart include the aorta and pulmonary arteries. 7 people found this useful. Yes arteries do carry blood away from the heart. They do this to feed the smaller tubes such as veins and capilaries. Then these smaller tubes transport blood to the bod … y to give it oxygen and the nutrients it needs.
Arteries form part of the circulatory system. They carry blood that is oxygenated after it has been pumped from the heart. Arteries also aid the heart in pumping blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the tissues, except for pulmonary arteries, which carry blood to the lungs for oxygenation. (Usually veins carry deoxygenated blood to the heart but the pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood.) There are two unique arteries. Systemic arteries are the arteries (including the peripheral arteries), of the systemic circulation, which is the part of the cardiovascular system that carries oxygenated blood away from the heart, to the body arterioles, and then to the capillaries, where nutrients and gases are exchanged.
THE ARTERIES. Efferent vessels are blood vessels that bring blood away from the heart. The arteries are such blood vessels. Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Most arteries carry oxygen-rich blood. The pulmonary artery is an exception-it carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. The arteries are connected to the capillaries through the arterioles.