Nuclear fission of heavy elements was discovered on December 17, 1938 by German Otto Hahn and his assistant Fritz Strassmann, and explained theoretically in January 1939 by Lise Meitner and her nephew Otto Robert Frisch. Frisch named the process by analogy with biological fission of living cells. Nuclear fission produces energy for nuclear power and drives the explosion of nuclear weapons. Both uses are possible because certain substances called nuclear fuels undergo fission when struck by fission neutrons, and in turn emit neutrons when they break apart.
Nuclear energy is one of the renewable energy sources being developed today because of the positive benefits it gives especially to the environment. This alternative energy is produced in two ways -- when atoms come together in a fusion process and when atoms split apart in a fission process. Together with Leo Szilard, Fermi discovered the first nuclear reactor that caused nuclear chain reactions. Fermi obtained his degree from the University of Pisa in 1922 after which he worked as a lecturer at the University of Florence for a period of two years.
| Share | Cite. The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann and was explained in early 1939 by Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch. The fissionable isotope of uranium, U-235, can be split by bombarding it with a slow, or thermal, neutron. More on nuclear energy Nuclear Fission from Infoplease: 1  nuclear energy: Nuclear Fission-Nuclear Fission The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz ...
Radioactivity was discovered in 1896 by French physicist Henri Becquerel. But the process of getting from that point to having nuclear power was long and consisted of many steps over a period of over forty years. Nuclear fission was first achieved in the lab by Enrico Fermi in 1934, and the nature of fission was first understood in 1938. The fact that a critical mass of uranium-235 could produce an exothermic chain reaction was part of this understanding and lead to research to produce both nuclear power and a nuclear bomb
1 Nuclear energy was first discovered accidentally by French physicist Henri Becquerel in 1896, when he found that photographic plates stored in the dark near uranium were blackened like X-ray plates, which had been just recently discovered at the time. 1 Nuclear energy is energy that is released either by splitting atomic nuclei or by forcing the nuclei of atoms together. 2  Nuclear energy comes from mass-to-energy conversions that occur in the splitting of atoms. 3  Albert Einstein’s famous mathematical formula E = mc 2 explains this.
Nuclear Fission. The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz Strassmann and was explained in early 1939 by Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch. The fissionable isotope of uranium, U-235, can be split by bombarding it with a slow, or thermal, neutron. More on nuclear energy Nuclear Fission from Infoplease: 1  nuclear energy: Nuclear Fission-Nuclear Fission The process of nuclear fission was discovered in 1938 by Otto Hahn and Fritz ...
The discovery Enrico Fermi is considered a major figure in the discovery of nuclear energy. This physicist born in Rome, Italy was the first scientist to split the atom and his research later led to nuclear power generation. Together with Leo Szilard, Fermi discovered the first nuclear reactor that caused nuclear chain reactions. Fermi obtained his degree from the University of Pisa in 1922 after which he worked as a lecturer at the University of Florence for a period of two years.
Nuclear power is the use of nuclear reactions that release nuclear energy to generate heat, which most frequently is then used in steam turbines to produce electricity in a nuclear power station. The term includes nuclear fission, nuclear decay and nuclear fusion. There is a social debate about nuclear power. Proponents, such as the World Nuclear Association and Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy, contend that nuclear power is a safe, sustainable energy source that reduces carbon emissions.
Nuclear energy was discovered accidentally by French physicist Henri Becquerel, when he found that photographic plates stored near uranium compounds reacted as though they had been exposed to light in a way similar to X-rays. Nuclear reactors produce energy from uranium through an atomic fission reaction—that is, radioactive atoms are split apart and the energy that is released in that fission is harnessed to produce heat and electricity.
History of Nuclear Energy Production. Physicist Enrico Fermi discovered the potential of nuclear fission in 1934, when he bombarded uranium atoms with neutrons and was surprised to discover that the products of this reaction were much lighter than uranium. Greenpeace also claims that nuclear power is far from the cheapest, most efficient, or even the cleanest alternative power source and the United Nations agreed in 2000, when delegates refused to grant greenhouse gas credits to nuclear power plants.