Tweet. Jerica is an English name of English-American origin. The name is of uncertain origin; it could be derived from the combination of Jeri and Erica. Both the origin and meaning of Jerica is inherited by all variant forms. Jerrica (English spelling variant) is another form of the name.
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jerica and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Jerica is fascinating, learn more about it. This doesn't mean that the name Jerica is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Jerica. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Jerica, spread the love and share this with your friends. This doesn't mean that the name Jerica is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data.
Jerica Name Meaning. The meaning of Jerica is “Strong, a gifted ruler”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. This doesn't mean that the name Jerica is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data.
Erica /er-i-ca/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced AIR-a-ka. It is of Old Norse origin, and the meaning of Erica is complete ruler . Latinate feminine form of Eric, and also a flower name, as the Latin word erica means  heather . Scandinavian name revived in the 19th century.
Meaning of Jerica. American name. In American, the name Jerica means-strong, a gifted ruler.The name Jerica originated as an American name. The name Jerica is most often used as a girl name or female name. American Name Meaning-strong, a gifted ruler. Origin-Am
Meanings and history of the name Jerica: | Edit. Jerica is a german/slavic name derived from the names Gertrude, Gera, Gerda, Gertrud, Gertruda...and it was 'translated' into slavic Jera, Jerca, Jerica, Jedrt... germany occupied a lot of the slavic territories, so hence the translations.... It is an old German name and the first time the name Gera was mentioned was in mar. 659, so please do not confuse it from a composition of Jera and Erica or any prehistoric made up Auel names.... Jerica in slavic is pronounced yeeritzah, Jera (yeerah), Jerca (yeertzah)...
Jerica /jer-i-ca/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JARE-a-kah. It is of American origin, and the meaning of Jerica is complete ruler. Blend of Jeri and Erica. Author Jean Auel used Jerika as the name of the hero's sister in the Clan of the Cave Bear series. Kreatif forms: Jerico, Jerija. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Jerica for girls. Jerica entered the list in 1990 and reached its apex position of #730 in the U.S. then, but is not found in the list currently.