The primary and original UConn campus is located in Storrs, a division of the Town of Mansfield, 22 miles (35 km) east of Hartford, Connecticut's capital. The University of Connecticut Libraries form the largest public research collection in the state of Connecticut. UConn is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. UConn was founded in 1881 as the Storrs Agricultural School, named after two brothers who donated the land for the school. In 1893, the school became a land grant college. In 1939, the name was changed to the University
Map showing location of Connecticut on the US map. As shown in the given Connecticut location map that Connecticut is located in the north-eastern region of the country. Connecticut is the part of New England region. Connecticut map also shows that it shares its border with New York in the east, Massachusetts in the north, and Rhode Island in the east. Besides, Connecticut also shares its coastline with Atlantic Ocean. The climate type of state is temperate. The capital city of Connecticut is Hartford; however, the largest city is Bridgeport. Other important cities are New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, and Norwalk. Important economic sectors of the state are agriculture, industries, and other financial activities.
Connecticut-Location, size, and extent. Located in New England in the northeastern US, Connecticut ranks 48th in size among the 50 states. The state's area, 5,018 sq mi (12,997 sq km), consists of 4,872 sq mi (12,619 sq km) of land and 146 sq mi (378 sq km) of inland water. Connecticut has an average length of 90 mi (145 km) E-W, and an average width of 55 mi (89 km) N-S.
However Compare Infobase Limited,its directors and employees do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Connecticut is bordered by Massachusetts to the north, Rhode Island to the east, and New York to the west. South of Connecticut is the Long Island Sound, which separates Connecticut from Long Island. The state is situated along the Atlantic Coast. Connecticut is a small state, with an area of just 14,357 square kilometers (5,543 square miles), making it the third smallest state in the country. The country of Connecticut is in the North American continent and the latitude and longitude for the country are 54.8270° N, 55.0423° E. ACOD~20121221. 
The state's geographic center is East Berlin in Hartford County. Connecticut has a boundary length of 328 mi (528 km) and a shoreline of 253 mi (407 km). The state's area, 5,018 sq mi (12,997 sq km), consists of 4,872 sq mi (12,619 sq km) of land and 146 sq mi (378 sq km) of inland water. Connecticut has an average length of 90 mi (145 km) E-W, and an average width of 55 mi (89 km) N-S.
Connecticut is bordered on the N by Massachusetts; on the E by Massachusetts and Rhode Island (with part of the line formed by the Pawcatuck River); on the S by New York (with the line passing through Long Island Sound); and on the W by New York. The state's area, 5,018 sq mi (12,997 sq km), consists of 4,872 sq mi (12,619 sq km) of land and 146 sq mi (378 sq km) of inland water. Connecticut has an average length of 90 mi (145 km) E-W, and an average width of 55 mi (89 km) N-S.
It is bordered by Rhode Island to the east, Massachusetts to the north, New York to the west, and Long Island Sound to the south. Its capital city is Hartford, and its most populous city is Bridgeport. The state is named after the Connecticut River, a major U.S. river that approximately bisects the state. The state capital and third largest city is Hartford, and other major cities and towns (by population) include Bridgeport, New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, Norwalk, Danbury, New Britain, Greenwich and Bristol. Connecticut is slightly larger than the country of Montenegro.
Connecticut's rural areas and small towns in the northeast and northwest corners of the state contrast sharply with its industrial cities, located along the coastal highways from the New York border to New London, then northward up the Connecticut River to Hartford. The state capital and third largest city is Hartford, and other major cities and towns (by population) include Bridgeport, New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, Norwalk, Danbury, New Britain, Greenwich and Bristol. Connecticut is slightly larger than the country of Montenegro.
Split and merge into it. Answer by ESanderson. Confidence votes 4.1K. Connecticut is located in the northeast region. To the right (east) of it is Rhode Island, to the left(west) is New York, above (north) is Massachusetts. 
Connecticut (/kəˈnɛtɨkət/ , kə-NET-i-kət) is the southernmost state in the region of the United States known as New England. Connecticut is also often grouped along with New York and New Jersey as the Tri-State area. The state capital and third largest city is Hartford, and other major cities and towns (by population) include Bridgeport, New Haven, Stamford, Waterbury, Norwalk, Danbury, New Britain, Greenwich and Bristol. Connecticut is slightly larger than the country of Montenegro.