A Concept of Operations (CONOPS) is a verbal or graphic statement of a commander’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations as defined by Joint Publication 1-02 “DoD Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms” . It’s designed to give an overall picture of an operation. Template: Concept of Operations (CONOPS). In Acquisitions, a CONOPS is used to examine current and new and/or proposed capabilities required to solve a current or emerging problem.
General Information/Narrative [Suggest Change]. As defined in Joint Publication 1-02, CONOPs is a verbal or graphic statement, in broad outline, of a commander’s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations. Also called commander’s concept or CONOPS. (JP 5-0) (Source: Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms).
Concept of operations. 194,816 pages on this wiki. A concept of operations (abbreviated CONOPS, CONOPs, or ConOps) is a document describing the characteristics of a proposed system from the viewpoint of an individual who will use that system. In the field of joint military operations, a CONOPS in DoD terminology is a verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses what the joint force commander intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available resources.
The concept of operations frequently is embodied in campaign plans and operation plans; in the latter case, particularly when the plans cover a series of connected operations to be carried out simultaneously or in succession. The concept is designed to give an overall picture of the operation. 
a verbal or graphic statement in broad outline of a commander s assumptions or intent in regard to an operation or series of operations the concept of operations frequently is embodied in campaign plans and operation plans in the latter case particularly when the plans cover a series of connected operations to be carried out simultaneously or in succession
U.S. Army Capabilities Integration Center. The idea for the LandWarNet concept of operations (CONOPS) began in July, 2006 at the U.S. Army Signal Center as a means to focus the U.S. Army’s attention on the capabilities and potential behind the network and its growing impact on the commander and Soldier. 
Definition [Suggest Change]. A verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses what the Joint Force Commander (JFC) intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available resources. The concept is designed to give an overall picture of the operation. Also called commander’s concept or CONOPS. (JP 5-0) (Source: Joint Publication 1-02, Department of Defense Dictionary of Military and Associated Terms).
The commander and staff must create the command-er’s intent and concept of operation through the operations process. The remaining elements—tasks to subordinate units, coordinating instruc-tions, and control measures—should follow naturally from well-developed commander’s intent and concept of the operation paragraphs. Holder argued that an over reliance on a rigid, methodical planning process and the relatively new doctrinal addition of commander’s intent had left many orders without an appropriate concept of operations paragraph and subsequently left subor-dinates without a clear understanding of the operation.
A concept of operations (abbreviated CONOPS, CONOPs, or ConOps) is a document describing the characteristics of a proposed system from the viewpoint of an individual who will use that system. It is used to communicate the quantitative and qualitative system characteristics to all stakeholders. In the field of joint military operations, a CONOPS in DoD terminology is a verbal or graphic statement that clearly and concisely expresses what the joint force commander intends to accomplish and how it will be done using available resources.