The average kitten weighs about 3.5 ozs. at birth, according to The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA). Most will weigh between 3.2 to 3.7 ozs. Weight Gain. It's important for kittens to maintain a steady increase in weight, veterinarian Mary D. McCauley says on the website of the Maine Coon Breeders and Fanciers Association. Stopping weight gain or loss of weight indicates a problem. The ASPCA says 1/4 to 1/2 oz. of weight gain per day is normal.
1 A kitten weighing between 1.5 pounds to 2 pounds (680g-900g) is likely 7-8 weeks old. 2  The average cat aged three months or more will weigh one pound per month of age until its weight stabilizes at around 10 pounds. 3  So, a 3-pound cat will likely be 3 months old, and a 4-pound cat will be 4 months old. 1 The average cat aged three months or more will weigh one pound per month of age until its weight stabilizes at around 10 pounds. 2
The weight of a newborn kitten varies based on his breed and the number of littermates he has, according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. After birth, a healthy kitten should gain weight daily; if yours is not, you should take him to the vet. By the time the kitten reaches around 6 months of age, he should be approximately half the size of an adult cat. The average adult domestic cat weighs between 8 and 10 pounds, according to the Association for Pet Obesity Prevention. This means your little guy should weigh around 4 to 5 pounds at 6 months old.
An average birth weight for kittens is about 3 ½ ounces, depending on breed and litter size. During the first weeks of life, a kitten’s body weight may double or even triple. Gaining ¼ to half an ounce daily until they are weaned is considered healthy. 
Kittens should be weighed at birth on a gram scale (newborns usually weigh between 90 and 110 grams [3.15 and 3.85 ounces), and then on a daily basis for the first two weeks. When properly fed, they will usually double their weight within the first week. Kittens weigh about 100 grams (3-5 ounces) at birth and gain approximately 7 to 15 grams per day (a quarter to over half an ounce). Thus, they will double their birth weight by seven days and triple it by twenty-one days (males gaining even faster).
1 The average healthy kitten weighs about 3.5 oz at birth, and gains about a quarter ounce per day. 2  So, a normal kitten will weighing from 3.5 to 5.25 oz is in its first week of life. ( 3 Note that a kitten weighing less than 3.5 oz may be sick or undernourished. 1 The average cat aged three months or more will weigh one pound per month of age until its weight stabilizes at around 10 pounds. 2  So, a 3-pound cat will likely be 3 months old, and a 4-pound cat will be 4 months old.
According to the ASPCA, kittens typically weigh approximately 3.5 ounces right at birth. However, this weight may vary depending on a few different factors, namely the number of kittens in the litter and the specific breed type. Breed type may affect a newborn kitten's birth weight. The image of a newborn kitten is a sweet one indeed. Just one glance at a tiny and fluffy feline ball of joy may be able to soften even the hardest of hearts, even just for a second. At birth, wee kittens don't usually even weigh in at 4 ounces
The daily intake of food is based on the kitten's energy requirement. Caloric requirements for the newborn kitten are approximately 420 kilocalories per kilogram at birth, and by five to six weeks of age it needs only 240 to 275 kilocalories per kilogram. (A kilogram is 1000 grams, or 2.2 pounds. Kittens weigh about 100 grams (3-5 ounces) at birth and gain approximately 7 to 15 grams per day (a quarter to over half an ounce). Thus, they will double their birth weight by seven days and triple it by twenty-one days (males gaining even faster).
Average Newborn Kitten’s Weight. The average weight for a newborn kitten is 3.5 ounces, or 99 grams -- larger breeds weigh slightly more and individuals of larger litters weigh slightly less. Kittens of less than 3.2 ounces at birth, or less than 90 grams, have a greater than 50 percent rate of mortality. 