Corn starch, cornstarch, cornflour or maize starch or maize is the starch derived from the corn (maize) grain. The starch is obtained from the endosperm of the corn kernel. Corn starch is a popular food ingredient used in thickening sauces or soups, and is used in making corn syrup and other sugars. Baby powder often includes cornstarch among its ingredients. Corn starch when mixed with a fluid can make a non-Newtonian fluid, e.g. adding water makes Oobleck and adding oil makes an Electrorheological fluid. A common substitute is arrowroot, which replaces corn starch on a 1:1 ratio.
Corn starch can be substituted at half the volume of flour in any recipe that calls for flour as a thickening agent. Corn starch can also be used to coat fruit in pies, tarts, and other deserts before baking. The thin layer of corn starch mixes with the fruit juices and then thickens as it bakes. This prevents pies and other desserts from having a watery or runny texture. Corn starch is also used as an anti-caking agent. Corn starch can be mixed into cool or room temperature liquids and then heated to cause a thickening action. Corn starch is often preferred to flour as a thickener because the resulting gel is transparent, rather than opaque. Corn starch is also relatively flavorless compared to flour and provides roughly two times the thickening power
Corn starch is used as a thickening agent in liquid-based foods (e.g., soup, sauces, gravies, custard), usually by mixing it with a lower-temperature liquid to form a paste or slurry. It is sometimes preferred over flour alone because it forms a translucent mixture, rather than an opaque one. Baby powder often includes cornstarch among its ingredients. Corn starch when mixed with a fluid can make a non-Newtonian fluid, e.g. adding water makes Oobleck and adding oil makes an Electrorheological fluid. A common substitute is arrowroot, which replaces corn starch on a 1:1 ratio.
Cornstarch is starch that is ground from the white endosperm at the heart of a kernel of corn. It's used as a thickening agent in cooking, a health-conscious alternative to talc, and the main ingredient in a biodegradable plastic. Powdered sugar also includes a small amount so that it does not clump. Post 52. Okay, so I am a lover of corn starch! I make my cornstarch lumpy and crunchy by just adding teaspoons of water into the container, stirring it, placing the lid back on and shaking it and let it dry for about 3 to 4 days in a dry area.
Full Definition of CORNSTARCH. : starch made from corn and used in foods as a thickening agent, in making corn syrup and sugars, and in the manufacture of adhesives and sizes for paper and textiles. See cornstarch defined for English-language learners. See cornstarch defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Cornstarch is made from corn kernels. Cornstarch is a smooth, white powder with many uses, ranging from a common cooking and baking ingredient to an alternative for talc. This versatile product is made from the kernel of the corn plant, specifically the starchy part known as the endosperm. The dietary fiber count in an ounce of corn starch is 0.3 grams, or 1 percent DV. The only fat in corn starch consists of 7 grams of omega-6 fatty acids, which is 0 percent of DV. Cornstarch also contains 2.3 grams of water.
Cornstarch is a fine, powdery starch that is made out of corn. The cornstarch is actually made from the endosperm of the corn, which makes up most of the kernels that we eat when enjoying popcorn or corn on the cob. Cornstarch, also sometimes called cornflour, is produced by grinding, washing and drying the endosperm of the corn until it reaches that fine, powdery state. Cornstarch is gluten free. Cornstarch has many culinary uses, but it is most often used as a thickener for sauces, gravies and fruit pie fillings.
Cornstarch is starch that’s derived from corn. It’s made from the tiny white endosperm at the heart of a corn kernel. To get to the endosperm, the kernels are processed so all of the outside shells removed. The endosperms are ground up into the fine white, gritty powder we know as cornstarch. 
In the kitchen, corn starch is most often used as a thickening agent for sauces, gravies, glazes, soups, casseroles, pies, and other desserts. Because corn starch is made from corn and only contains carbohydrates (no protein), it is a gluten free product. Corn starch can be mixed into cool or room temperature liquids and then heated to cause a thickening action. Corn starch is often preferred to flour as a thickener because the resulting gel is transparent, rather than opaque. Corn starch is also relatively flavorless compared to flour and provides roughly two times the thickening power