(inside cochlea) organ located in the cochlea; contains receptors (hair cells) that receive vibrations and generate nerve impulses for hearing -------sense organ of hearing; runs along length of basilar membrane; consists of hair and support cells that react to the traveling wave. ------ Sensorineural deafness: caused by the impairment if hair cells in the cochlea or damage of the cochlear branch of the vestibulocochlear nerve. -------Conduction deafness: caused by impairment of the outer and middle ear mechanisms for transmitting sounds to the cochlea.
Organ of Corti. (inside cochlea) organ located in the cochlea; contains receptors (hair cells) that receive vibrations and generate nerve impulses for hearing -------sense organ of hearing; runs along length of basilar membrane; consists of hair and support cells that react to the traveling wave.   . ------ Sensorineural deafness: caused by the impairment if hair cells in the cochlea or damage of the cochlear branch of the vestibulocochlear nerve. -------Conduction deafness: caused by impairment of the outer and middle ear mechanisms for transmitting sounds to the cochlea.
The neuroepithelial receptor cells are classified as inner and outer hair cells. The inner hair cells are the receptors for hearing, while the outer hair cells are for modulation. The inner hair cells are arranged in a single row along the entire length of the cochlear duct, that is, from its base to its apex. They are surrounded by supporting cells, the inner phalangeal cells.
In the mammalian ear the sensory receptors (hair cells) for hearing are in the cochlea and for ballance are in the semicircular canals. Both the cochlea and semicircular canal … s are part of the inner ear. inner. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. The hearing receptors are also known as hair cells. These are auditory receptors that transform vibrations causes by sound waves into neural impulses that are then transmitted … to the brain through the auditory nerve.
The inner ear contains the sensory organs for hearing and balance. The cochlea is the hearing part of the inner ear. The semicircular canals in the inner ear are part of our balance system. The cochlea is a bony structure shaped like a snail and filled with two fluids (endolymph and perilymph). The Organ of Corti is the sensory receptor inside the cochlea which holds the hair cells, the nerve receptors for hearing. The mechanical energy from movement of the middle ear bones pushes in a membrane (the oval window) in the cochlea. This force moves the cochlea's fluids that, in turn, stimulate tiny hair cells
In the mammalian ear the sensory receptors (hair cells) for hearing are in the cochlea and for ballance are in the semicircular canals. Both the cochlea and semicircular canal … s are part of the inner ear. inner. Valentin Popov. 21,056 Contributions. The cochlea; sound wave are transferred through the ear canal and vibrated the ear drum which is connected to the cochlea and amplified the sound wave. When the sound wave rea … ched the cochlea, sound wave is converted into nerve impulse and transferred through the nerve to the brain. Receptor is a converter of stimulus to electrical nerve impulse; cochlea converted sound wave into nerve impulse and so cochlea is the sensory receptor of the ear