It may be deadly. If you are going on a high-altitude trek, learn about altitude sickness, its symptoms, and how to treat it. Look out for other people in your group. You can learn more about altitude sickness at the International Society for Mountain Medicine website at www.ismmed.org. It happens most often when people who are not used to high altitudes go quickly from lower altitudes to 8000 ft (2438 m) or higher. For example, you may get a headache when you drive over a high mountain pass, hike to a high altitude, or arrive at a mountain resort. Mild altitude sickness is common.
Questions to help determine if you have a mental illness. Mental illness has many faces, ranging from occasional episodes of depression to severe, chronic conditions like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Unlike broken bones that can be seen by an x-ray, the form of mental illness someone has can be hard to diagnose. 
To prevent sickness, you want to have good levels of vitamin C and I believe zinc. Vitamin C is mostly obtained from citrus fruit. You cut a lemon in half, and squeeze the j … uice into your mouth, and swallow after letting it sit in your throat. Call in means to place a call in to work to let them know something. It could be for a status update, it could be to check on an assignment, or it could be to inform your wo … rk that you will not be coming into the office due to illness. Call out is improper usage according to Merriam-Webster
The symptoms of altitude sickness include: 1  A headache, which is usually throbbing. 2  It gets worse during the night and when you wake up. 3  Not feeling like eating. 4  Feeling sick to your stomach. 5  You may vomit. 6  Feeling weak and tired. It happens most often when people who are not used to high altitudes go quickly from lower altitudes to 8000 ft (2438 m) or higher. For example, you may get a headache when you drive over a high mountain pass, hike to a high altitude, or arrive at a mountain resort. Mild altitude sickness is common.
Find out more about hyperemesis gravidarum. With morning sickness, some women are sick (vomit) and some have a feeling of sickness (nausea) without being sick. The term morning sickness is misleading. It can affect you at any time of the day or night, and some women feel sick all day long. It's thought hormonal changes in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy are probably one of the causes of morning sickness. Symptoms should ease as your pregnancy progresses
If you have a cold, are you too sick to work? While you can try to run from a common cold, you can't hide! And you must use common sense before you expose others at work to your cold virus. Findings show that when we're sick with the common cold, we're not very productive. Keep your cold to yourself, and stay home! If you are sniffling but not achy or feverish and feel fine otherwise, you probably have allergies. With allergies, you can go to work. In addition, you might want to see an allergist to find out what's triggering your allergies. Allergy symptoms can rob you of quality of life, especially when they occur day after day
A mental illness is a disease that causes mild to severe disturbances in thought and/or behavior, resulting in an inability to cope with life’s ordinary demands and routines. There are more than 200 classified forms of mental illness. 
Check with your pharmacist before you use ginger supplements. Some women find that ginger biscuits or ginger ale can help reduce nausea. You can try different things to see what works for you. Find out more about vitamins and supplements in pregnancy. The term morning sickness is misleading. It can affect you at any time of the day or night, and some women feel sick all day long. It's thought hormonal changes in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy are probably one of the causes of morning sickness.