(a.k.a. Uveodermatological Syndrome). Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome (VKH syndrome) is an autoimmune disease in humans where one’s own defense against infection, the T-cells, attack the melanin-forming cells (melanocytes) in the body. Melanin is what gives color, or pigment, to our hair, skin and parts of our eyes. 
UVEOMENINGOENCEPHALITIC syndrome (Vogt-Koyanagi-Haranda [VKH]) is an unusual syndrome with important neurological complications and has not, to my knowledge, been discussed in English in the neurological literature. VKH is a multisystem disorder and includes idiopathic uveitis, dysacousia, leukodermia, alopecia, canities (whitened hair), poliosis (whitened eyebrows and eyelashes), acute encephalitic signs, and fluctuating meningeal symptoms both central and peripheral.
Background. Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) disease is a multisystemic disorder characterized by granulomatous panuveitis with exudative retinal detachments that is often associated with neurologic and cutaneous manifestations. VKH disease can be associated with other autoimmune disorders, such as autoimmune polyglandular syndrome, hypothyroidism, Hashimoto thyroiditis, diabetes mellitus, Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome and Immunoglobulin (IgA) iga. nephropathy
Zellweger spectrum disorder is a group of conditions that have overlapping signs and symptoms and affect many parts of the body. This group of conditions includes Zellweger syndrome, neonatal adrenoleukodystrophy (NALD), and infantile Refsum disease. These conditions were once thought to be distinct disorders but are now considered to be part of the same condition spectrum. Zellweger syndrome is the most severe form of the Zellweger spectrum disorder, NALD is intermediate in severity, and infantile Refsum disease is the least severe form.
Zellweger syndrome is the most severe form of a spectrum of conditions called Zellweger spectrum. The signs and symptoms of Zellweger syndrome typically appear during the newborn period and may include poor muscle tone (hypotonia), poor feeding, seizures, hearing loss, vision loss, distinctive facial features, and skeletal abnormalities.
Uveomeningoencephalitic Syndrome. Definition: A syndrome characterized by bilateral granulomatous with and secondary, premature, symmetrical, poliosis circumscripta (a strand of depigmented hair), , and meningeal signs (neck stiffness and headache). Examination of the cerebrospinal fluid reveals a pattern consistent with. (Adams et al., Principles of Neurology, 6th ed, p748; Surv Ophthalmol 1995 Jan;39(4):265-292) Synonym(s): Uveomeningoencephalitis / Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada Syndrome / Syndrome, VKH (Vogt Koyanagi Harada) / Syndrome, Vogt Koyanagi Harada /.
In humans, a condition known as Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada (VKH) or uveomeningoencephalitic syndrome has been described. “Uveodermatologic syndrome” is the canine counterpart to this human disease complex characterized by eye, skin and nervous system symptoms. Affected dogs usually suffer eye problems (including uveitis and retinal separation), a premature whitening of the hair (poliosis) and vitiligo (skin depigmentation).
Uveomeningoencephalitic syndrome: A syndrome characterized by bilateral granulomatous UVEITIS with IRITIS and secondary GLAUCOMA, premature ALOPECIA, symmetrical VITILIGO, poliosis circumscripta (a strand of depigmented hair), HEARING DISORDERS, and meningeal signs (neck stiffness and headache). These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Uveomeningoencephalitic syndrome: 1  Granulomatous. 2  Granulomatous disease. 3  UVEITIS (59 causes). 4  IRITIS (60 causes). 5  GLAUCOMA (150 causes). 6  Premature.
Issacs' syndrome (also known as neuromyotonia, Isaacs-Mertens syndrome, continuous muscle fiber activity syndrome, and quantal squander syndrome) is a rare neuromuscular disorder caused by hyperexcitability and continuous firing of the peripheral nerve axons that activate muscle fibers. Issacs' syndrome is only one of several neurological conditions that can be caused by potassium channel antibodies. Anticonvulsants, including phenytoin and carbamazepine, usually provide significant relief from the stiffness, muscle spasms, and pain associated with Isaacs' syndrome.