Astrocytoma is a type of tumor that can happen in the brain or spinal cord. They are one of the most common brain tumors seen in children, with approximately 700 children diagnosed with low-grade astrocytoma — a slow-growing tumor — each year.
Astrocytomas are tumors that arise from astrocytes—star-shaped cells that make up the “glue-like” or supportive tissue of the brain. These tumors are “graded” on a scale from I to IV based on how normal or abnormal the cells look. There are low-grade astrocytomas and high-grade astrocytomas.
Definition. Astrocytoma is type of brain tumor. It is a malignant (cancerous) tumor. This type of tumor begins from small, star-shaped cells in the brain. They are called astrocytes. Astrocytes are one of several types of supporting cells in the brain. These type of cells are called glial cells.
Astrocytomas develop from small, star-shaped cells called astrocytes, and may arise anywhere in the brain or spinal cord. Astrocytomas are the most common primary CNS tumor. In adults, astrocytomas most often occur in the cerebrum, which is the largest part of the brain.
Astrocytomas are a type of cancer of the brain. They originate in a particular kind of glial cells, star-shaped brain cells in the cerebrum called astrocytes. This type of tumor does not usually spread outside the brain and spinal cord and it does not usually affect other organs.
In this article. Astrocytoma is a type of brain cancer that usually starts in the cerebrum, the largest part of your brain, but can also show up in the cerebellum (the back of the brain). It’s more common in men than women and most often shows up after age 45. There are several types of astrocytoma, and some grow faster than others.
An astrocytoma is a type of glioma. Astrocytoma is the most common type of glioma diagnosed in children. It can form anywhere in the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). This summary is about the treatment of tumors that begin in astrocytes in the brain (primary brain tumors).
Pediatric astrocytoma (sometimes called glioma) is one of the most common types of brain tumor that can develop in children. It arises from a specific type of cell in the brain, called an astrocyte.