Another important aspect of the Hollywood star system is the stars' ability to convey the myths and dreams of their society, such as the myth of the self made man, which for many viewers represents the belief that everyone has a chance of happiness in America. For a consumer of the star system, looking at these stars is a way to continue believing that anything is possible, regardless of class or money. Thus, the star system creates hopes and preserves the ideals of a still young country.
The star system was the method of creating, promoting and exploiting stars in Hollywood films. Movie studios would select promising young actors and glamorise and create personas for them, often inventing new names and even new backgrounds. For a consumer of the star system, looking at these stars is a way to continue believing that anything is possible, regardless of class or money. Thus, the star system creates hopes and preserves the ideals of a still young country.
Sirius (/ˈsɪriəs/) is the brightest star (in fact, a star system) in the Earth's night sky. With a visual apparent magnitude of −1.46, it is almost twice as bright as Canopus, the next brightest star. The name Sirius is derived from the Ancient Greek σείριος (Seirios), meaning glowing or scorcher. What the naked eye perceives as a single star is actually a binary star system, consisting of a white main-sequence star of spectral type A1V, termed Sirius A, and a faint white dwarf companion of spectral type DA2, called Sirius B.
1 The Sun in the center of our solar system is a star. 2  There are around 200 billion stars in the Milky Way alone. 3  VY Canis Majoris is the largest known star in our galaxy, if this star was in the center of our solar system its outer atmosphere would reach the orbit of Saturn. When a star is in its main sequence it is fusing hydrogen atoms in its core which creates energy. Stars in their main sequence are referred to as 'dwarfs', the sun being an example of a dwarf star, all stars will spend the majority of their lifespan in this state before they exhaust their supply of hydrogen.
The term binary star is a misnomer because it is actually a star system made up of usually two stars that orbit around one center of mass – where the mass is most concentrated. Astrometric binary stars are systems in which only one star can be observed, and the other’s presence is inferred by the noticeable wobble of the first star. This wobble happens as a result of the smaller star’s slight gravitational influence on the larger star.
Another nearby visual binary system is Sirius in the constellation Canis Major. Of the two stars, α CMa A is an A1 V star, the brightest in the night sky with an apparent magnitude of -1.43. Its companion star, α CMa B is a much dimmer star. In fact it is a white dwarf with an apparent magnitude of 8.44. A visual binary is a binary system in which the component stars of the system can be individually resolved through a telescope. Long-term observations can then be made to plot the relative positions of the members of the system. Over time this data is accumulated and used to calculate the orbits of the stars.
Planet's revolve around stars because of gravity. However, gravity is not restricted to only act between large and small bodies, stars can revolve around stars as well. In fact, 85% of the stars in the Milky Way galaxy are not single stars, like the Sun, but multiple star systems, binaries or triplets. 
A visual binary system is a system in which two separate stars are visible through a telescope that has an appropriate resolving power. These can be difficult to detect if one of the stars’ brightness is much greater, in effect blotting out the second star. Astrometric binary stars are systems in which only one star can be observed, and the other’s presence is inferred by the noticeable wobble of the first star. This wobble happens as a result of the smaller star’s slight gravitational influence on the larger star.
The most common of the multiple star systems are binary stars, systems of only two stars together. These pairs come in an array of configurations that help scientists to classify stars, and could have impacts on the development of life. Some people even think that the sun is part of a binary system. Binary classifications. Binary stars are two stars orbiting a common center of mass. The brighter star is officially classified as the primary star, while the dimmer of the two is the secondary (classified as A and B respectively).