Tomatillo Equivalent: 1 pound fresh tomatillos = 1 (11-ounce) can of tomatillos. Growing Tomatillos: When growing your own, they are ripe when the tomatillo fills out its papery husk but are still green in color. If they turn yellow, they are still useable but at this stage loose much of their tangy flavor.
The tomatillo (from Nahuatl, tomatl) is also known as husk tomato, Mexican husk tomato, or ground cherry. These names, however, can also refer to other species in the Physalis genus. Other names are Mexican green tomato and miltomate. History [edit]. Tomatillos were domesticated in Mexico before the coming of Europeans, and played an important part in the culture of the Maya and the Aztecs, more important than the tomato. The specific name philadelphica dates from the 18th century.
The tomatillo (Physalis philadelphica), also known as the Mexican husk tomato, is a plant of the nightshade family bearing small, spherical and green or green-purple fruit of the same name. History [edit]. Tomatillos were domesticated in Mexico before the coming of Europeans, and played an important part in the culture of the Maya and the Aztecs, more important than the tomato. The specific name philadelphica dates from the 18th century.
No Follow. Sometimes called Mexican green tomatoes, the tomatillo looks like a small green tomato with a papery covering or husk. It is in the same family as a tomato, but tomatillas have a distinctive tart flavor. For a tomatillo substitute, buy underripe tomatoes and add a squeeze of lime juice
Tomatillos. Photo © Molly Watson. Tomatillos look like small green tomatoes (of which they are a distant relative) covered with a papery husk. They have a bright, lemon-like flavor perfect with spicy food or alongside grilled items. They can also add a nice hit of acid to stews and other heavy fare. 
Tomatillos may resemble green tomatoes slightly, but they’re a completely different fruit. They do belong to the nightshade family — the same family that is home to eggplant, tomatoes and potatoes — but they have a very different flavor than tomatoes. Tomatillos are common to Mexican cuisine. They can be used raw, as in this green tomatillo salad or cooked in a roasted tomatillo salsa or enchiladas verde. Not all tomatillo recipes are Latin influenced either; this green linguine combines a variety of influences, including Italian. If you can’t find them in Latin stores, you can grow your own tomatillos
Containing all the right ingredients for optimal nutrition, tomatillos are a very good source of dietary fiber, niacin, potassium, and manganese. They contain 20 percent of the daily recommended value in vitamin C, 13 percent of the vitamin K, and a healthy amount of iron, magnesium, phosphorus, and copper. 
Tomatillos are also called tomate verde in Mexico (which means green tomato) and are considered a staple in Mexican cooking. Tomatillo is a member of the nightshade family, related to tomatoes. It now grows everywhere in the Western Hemisphere and is common in Texas gardens. 1 pound fresh tomatillos = 1 (11-ounce) can of tomatillos. Growing Tomatillos: When growing your own, they are ripe when the tomatillo fills out its papery husk but are still green in color.
Tomatillos are small, round fruits resembling little tomatoes bearing a papery outer covering. They are members of the nightshade family, along with tomatoes, potatoes, and peppers. Place tomatillos, onion, garlic, and chili pepper into a medium saucepan. Season with cilantro, oregano, cumin, and salt; pour in water. Bring this mixture to a boil over high heat, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer until the tomatillos are soft, about 15 minutes.