By definition, a pathogen is anything that is capable of causing disease. These include bacteria, viruses, fungi, parasites, etc.  Pathogens can enter the body through variou … s ways:   Through breaks in the skin. These are commonly attributed to be bacteria and viruses. They can also be simple organisms, such as Naegl … eria fowleri [the uncommon brain eating ameoba]. Most pathogens are infectious microbes, such as bacteria or viruses, which are
Noun. 1. pathogen-any disease-producing agent (especially a virus or bacterium or other microorganism). microorganism, micro-organism-any organism of microscopic size. infectious agent, infective agent-an agent capable of producing infection. Translations. [ˈpaeθəʊdʒen] ˈpæθəʊdʒen → n patogeno. patógeno m 
In biology, a pathogen (Greek: πάθος pathos “suffering, passion” and -γενής -genēs “producer of”) in the oldest and broadest sense is anything that can produce disease, a term which came into use in the 1880s. The host may be an animal, a plant, a fungus, or even another microorganism. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen.
• PATHOGEN (noun). The noun PATHOGEN has 1 sense: 1. any disease-producing agent (especially a virus or bacterium or other microorganism). Familiarity information: PATHOGEN used as a noun is very rare. 
any disease-producing agent or microorganism. pathogen risk factors. risk factors dependent on the characteristics of the pathogen, e.g. virulence or persistence in the environment of a bacterium or virus. pathogen. any disease-producing agent or microorganism. pathogen risk factors. risk factors dependent on the characteristics of the pathogen, e.g. virulence or persistence in the environment of a bacterium or virus. 1  Facebook.
Typically the term is used to describe an infectious agent such as a virus, bacterium, prion, fungus, viroid, or parasite that causes disease in its host. The host may be an animal, a plant, a fungus, or even another microorganism. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen. Diseases caused by organisms in humans are known as pathogenic diseases
Pathogen. Definition. noun, plural: pathogens. An agent causing disease or illness to its host, such as an organism or infectious particle capable of producing a disease in another organism. Supplement. Pathogens are mostly microscopic, such as bacteria, viruses, protozoa, and fungi, thriving in various places such as air, dust, surfaces, soil, etc. Not all bacteria are pathogens, in fact most of them are harmless and only a few are pathogenic. Examples of pathogenic bacteria are Mycobacterium tuberculosis (causing tuberculosis), Streptococcus penumoniae (causing pneumonia), Shigella, Campylobacter and Salmonella (causing foodborne illnesses).
A pathogen is an infectious agent that causes illness to the host. These are commonly attributed to be bacteria and viruses. They can also be simple organisms, such as Naegl … eria fowleri [the uncommon brain eating ameoba]. Most pathogens are infectious microbes, such as bacteria or viruses, which are capable of causing disease. Other parasites, such as fungi and protozoans, are also considered pathogens. Because not all microbes are harmful, pathogens refer specifically to those that can cause disease or other harm.   pathagens are bacterias.which cause people to get sick
Pathogen. A pathogen or infectious agent is a microorganism—in the widest sense, such as a virus, bacterium, prion, or fungus—that causes disease in its host. The host may be an animal, a plant, or even another microorganism. There are several substrates including pathways whereby pathogens can invade a host. Diseases caused by organisms in humans are known as pathogenic diseases. Some of the diseases that a pathogen can cause are smallpox, influenza, mumps, measles, chickenpox, ebola and rubella. Not all pathogens are necessarily undesirable to humans.