From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Sialolithiasis (also termed salivary calculi, or salivary stones), is a condition where a calcified mass or sialolith forms within a salivary gland, usually in the duct of the submandibular gland (also termed  Wharton's duct ). About 85% of stones occur in the submandibular gland, and between 5-10% occur in the parotid gland. In about 0-5% of cases, the sublingual gland or a minor salivary gland is affected. When minor glands are rarely involved, caliculi are more likely in the minor glands of the buccal mucosa and the maxillary labial mucosa.
Back to Top Causes. Saliva (spit) is produced by the salivary glands in the mouth. The chemicals in saliva can form a hard crystal that can block the salivary ducts. When saliva cannot exit a blocked duct, it backs up into the gland. This may cause pain and swelling of the gland
The main symptom of salivary duct stones is pain in your face, mouth, or neck that becomes worse just before or during meals. This is because your salivary glands produce saliva to facilitate eating. When saliva cannot flow through a duct, it backs up in the gland, causing swelling and pain. Other common symptoms include tenderness and swelling in your face, mouth, or neck.
The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. Pain is usually off and on, is felt in one gland, and gets progressively worse. Unless the blockage is cleared, the gland is likely to become infected.
In this article. Font Size. A. A. A. A salivary gland stone -- also called salivary duct stone -- is a calcified structure that may form inside a salivary gland or duct. It can block the flow of saliva into the mouth. The majority of stones affect the submandibular glands located at the floor of the mouth. Salivary Gland Stones Diagnosis and Treatments. If you have symptoms of a salivary gland stone, your doctor will first check for stones with a physical exam. Sometimes tests may also be ordered, such as X-ray, CT scan, or ultrasound. If a stone is detected, the goal of treatment is to remove it.
351,954 Helpful Votes. 386 Followers. A. A salivary gland stone -- also called salivary duct stone, salivary calculus, or sialolith -- is a calcified structure that may form inside a salivary gland or duct and can block the flow of saliva into the mouth. The majority of stones affect the submandibular glands located at the floor of the mouth. 
Salivary duct stones are masses of crystallized minerals that form in the tubes that saliva passes through after it’s made in your salivary glands. This condition is also known as sialolithiasis, and the stone may be referred to as salivary duct calculus. These stones mainly occur in middle-aged adults. This is because your salivary glands produce saliva to facilitate eating. When saliva cannot flow through a duct, it backs up in the gland, causing swelling and pain. Other common symptoms include tenderness and swelling in your face, mouth, or neck.
17. One or more stones sometimes form in one of the salivary glands. A stone can cause a blockage of the flow of spit (saliva), which can lead to pain and swelling of the affected salivary gland. The reason why these stones form is not known. Sometimes a stone comes out into the mouth on its own, or with gentle probing. The size of the stone can vary from less than 1 mm to a few centimetres in diameter. About 9 in 10 stones are less than 10 mm in size. About 8 in 10 salivary stones form in one of the submandibular glands. The submandibular duct is a tube, which runs from under the front of the tongue to the submandibular gland.