The Chinese language known as Mandarin is the most common language in the world. But there are many other languages spoken in China, including Wu, Hunanese, Jiangxinese, Hakka, Yue (including Cantonese-Taishanese), Ping, Shaojiang, and Min. Mandarin is commonly referred to as Chinese, but in fact it is just one Chinese language of many. Mandarin is the most common Chinese language, and is also the official language of Mainland China, Taiwan, and one of the official languages of Singapore.
Standard Chinese (known in China as Putonghua), a form of Mandarin Chinese, is the official national spoken language for the mainland and serves as a lingua franca within the Mandarin-speaking regions (and, to a lesser extent, across the other regions of mainland China). Language laws of China do not apply to either Hong Kong or Macau and hence have different official languages (Cantonese, English and Portuguese) than the mainland. For example, Tibetan has official status within the Tibet Autonomous Region and Mongolian has official status within Inner Mongolia.
Mandarin, China’s official tongue, is also the top language worldwide for business other than English, according to Bloomberg Rankings. Mandarin, spoken by 845 million people, scored highest in a ranking of languages, excluding English, based on business usefulness. 
Mandarin is spoken by possibly more people than any other language: over 1.3 billion. It is the main language of government, the media and education in China and Taiwan, and one of the four official languages in Singapore. Pŭtōnghua (Pŭtōnghuà). Mandarin mandarin is spoken by possibly more people than any other: language over.1 3. Billion it is the main language of, government the media and education In china And, taiwan and one of the four official languages In. singapore
Standard Chinese (Putonghua/Guoyu/Huayu) is a standardized form of spoken Chinese based on the Beijing dialect of Mandarin. It is the official language of China and Taiwan, as well as one of four official languages of Singapore. It is one of the six official languages of the United Nations. There are between 7 and 13 main regional groups of Chinese (depending on classification scheme), of which the most spoken by far is Mandarin (about 960 million), followed by Wu (80 million), Yue (60 million) and Min (70 million).
The common language in Hong Kong and overseas Chinese communities is Cantonese. The major languages spoken in Taiwan are Mandarin, Taiwanese (a variety of Min), and Hakka. Six of the seven main dialects are in the southeast of Chinese, south of the Yangtze river. Mandarin is spoken in most of northern China and part of western China. The variety of Mandarin based on the speech in the capital Beijing is the official national language of mainland China and is termed Pŭtōnghua (pŭtōnghuà, 普通話 common). Language the common language In Hong kong and Overseas chinese communities Is. cantonese
Relatively speaking though the two main languages spoken in China are Mandarin (which is considered standard Chinese) and Cantonese (which is spoken mostly in the Southern regions of China). The official Language is, of course, Chinese, and Mandarin is the official national spoken language except in Hong Kong and Macau; however, many different languages, as I have listed, are spoken due to China having so many different ethnic groups residing there. + 14 others found this useful. Rachel Huang