With all of the factors looked at, answering the question how long does fertilization take must start with the time of ovulation. If the female partner is not ovulating, and won’t be in the near future, then fertilization of the egg will not take place. If a woman is ovulating then becoming pregnant is a lot easier. After fertilization occurs, implantation begins to occur as the egg travels through the fallopian tubes to the uterus where the zygote will begin to form and grow into a baby. This process can take up to four days to complete and reach it’s expected point.
You can begin looking for pregnancy symptoms as early as a week after fertilization. You can also begin testing for pregnancy as early as 7-10 days past your ovulation date with an Early Detection Pregnancy Test. If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again. 
Firstly-sperm can survive for up to 6 days in the best conditions not 24hrs as has been posted previously. Secondly-in optimum conditions if after ovulation the egg was not fertilized it can only survive for 24hrs. It will then take until day 7-10 after ovulation for the egg to implant into the wall of the uterus. To give urself the highest chance of conception it is best to BD from four days prior up to and including the day of ovulation....
Ovulation. On average, your ovaries will release an egg (ovulation), into your fallopian tubes, 14 days before your period is due. Your egg will survive 12 to 24 hours after ovulation, and then will start to disintegrate, making conception impossible. 
The Egg Travels to the Fallopian Tube. After the egg is released, it moves into the fallopian tube. It stays there for about 24 hours, waiting for a single sperm to fertilize it. All this happens, on average, about 2 weeks after your last period. Implantation: Moving to the Uterus. The egg stays in the fallopian tube for about 3 to 4 days. But within 24 hours of being fertilized, it starts dividing fast into many cells. It keeps dividing as it moves slowly through the fallopian tube to the uterus.
Once healthy sperm has reached an egg then fertilization can immediately occur. It usually roughly takes 90 seconds for the sperm to reach the egg and can be found in the fallopian tubes within five minutes. After fertilization occurs, implantation begins to occur as the egg travels through the fallopian tubes to the uterus where the zygote will begin to form and grow into a baby. This process can take up to four days to complete and reach it’s expected point.
At the instant of fertilization, your baby's genes and sex are set. If the sperm has a Y chromosome, your baby will be a boy. If it has an X chromosome, the baby will be a girl. Implantation: Moving to the Uterus. The egg stays in the fallopian tube for about 3 to 4 days. But within 24 hours of being fertilized, it starts dividing fast into many cells. It keeps dividing as it moves slowly through the fallopian tube to the uterus. Its next job is to attach to the lining of uterus
Fertilization: Sperm Penetrates Egg. It takes about 24 hours for a sperm cell to fertilize an egg. When the sperm penetrates the egg, the surface of the egg changes so that no other sperm can enter. At the moment of fertilization, the baby's genetic makeup is complete, including whether it's a boy or girl. 
It takes about 12 to 24 hours for ovulation to take place. Ovulation usually occurs in about 14 days after the beginning of ones menstrual cycle. The lifespan of this released egg after ovulation lasts for about a mere 12 to 24 hours. And the fertilization of this egg must happen within this time limit. How long foes the released egg takes to fertilize? Once the matured egg has been released from the follicle chances of that egg being fertilized for up to 12 to 48 hours are high. Hence it is considered to be the most fertile period of the cycle. Then the growing follicle secrets a kind of hormone called Estrogen.