Many foods contain one or more of vitamins A, C, E or B-3, the B-complex vitamin niacin, but not many foods are good sources of all of these nutrients. Often, the best way to get each of these vitamins is from products whose ingredients are natural sources of one or more of the vitamins. Meal replacement products are often fortified with many essential vitamins and minerals, and you might be able to find one with vitamins A, C, E and B-3, along with other micronutrients. Possibilities include energy bars, diet bars or shakes and protein bars or shakes.
Vitamin E Foods. Many nuts and oils are high in vitamin E. Good sources are almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts, sunflower seeds, sunflower oil, safflower oil, corn oil, olive oil and peanut butter. Wheat germ oil is very high in vitamin E. One tablespoon has 100 percent of your daily requirement. Fruits and vegetables with vitamin E include spinach, broccoli, kiwi, mango and tomatoes, but they aren’t as high in vitamin C as nuts and oils.
Oils and margarines from corn, cottonseed, soybean, safflower, and wheat germ are all good sources of vitamin E. Nuts are also good sources of vitamin E. Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains contain less. Refining grains reduces their vitamin E content, as does commercial processing and storage of food. 
2. Select raw seeds, such as sunflower, pumpkin and sesame, are another common food with vitamin E. In fact, eating just ¼ of a cup of sunflower seeds gives you 90.5% of your recommended daily value, making them one of the best vitamin E foods you can eat daily. 8. Most plant seed oils are very good sources for Vitamin E as well. The best oil with vitamin E is Wheat germ oil. In fact, one tablespoon of this oil holds 100% of your daily Vitamin E requirements.
Almonds. Almonds are one the best vitamin E foods. Just an ounce of almonds offers a whopping 7.4 milligrams of vitamin E. You can also get your vitamin E needs in the form of almond milk and almond oils. We would recommend eating raw almonds, if possible. 8. Most plant seed oils are very good sources for Vitamin E as well. The best oil with vitamin E is Wheat germ oil. In fact, one tablespoon of this oil holds 100% of your daily Vitamin E requirements.
*as alpha-tocopherol. **this amount includes sources of vitamin E from fortified food and supplements. Vitamin E is found mainly in foods that contain fat like margarine, vegetable oil, wheat germ, nuts, nut butters, and seeds. The following table shows you foods which are sources of vitamin E
In general, foods containing vitamin e are green leafy vegetables, nuts, various vegetable oils, and fortified breakfast cereals. There are in fact many foods containing vitamin e, but there are some foods higher in vitamin e and these are listed below. Foods Containing Vitamin E. The foods containing vitamin e are not difficult to find. In fact there are many common and easily available foods high in vitamin e. Vitamin e is an important element in health. It is also an important player in the world of skin care.
Food. Numerous foods provide vitamin E. Nuts, seeds, and vegetable oils are among the best sources of alpha-tocopherol, and significant amounts are available in green leafy vegetables and fortified cereals (see Table 2 for a more detailed list) [ 7 ]. Naturally occurring vitamin E exists in eight chemical forms (alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-tocopherol and alpha-, beta-, gamma-, and delta-tocotrienol) that have varying levels of biological activity [ 1 ]. Alpha- (or α-) tocopherol is the only form that is recognized to meet human requirements.