1 Being able to answer a test question correctly when discussing the same term or example used in the question. 2  On the contrary, if different examples are used in the question, itd be harder to answering it. 3  Being upstairs, wanting something that is downstairs, going downstairs and then forgetting what you wanted. Definition: The doctrine that memory is encoded and stored with specific cues related to the context in which it was formed. The more closely the retrieval cues match the form in which information was encoded, the better it will be remembered. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encoding_specificity_principle
Edit 1 44 …. Definition: The doctrine that memory is encoded and stored with specific cues related to the context in which it was formed. The more closely the retrieval cues match the form in which information was encoded, the better it will be remembered. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encoding_specificity_principle
Print PDF. Encoding specificity refers to Endel Tulving’s notion that in order to successfully retrieve something from memory there must be a match between how information is originally encoded and how it is available when being retrieved from memory. [GARD]. Further discussion and example on encoding specificity: While encoding specificity is a principle in psychology, it has a wide appeal across several disciplines, specifically marketing communications and brand awareness
What Tulving realised was that this isn’t the whole story, however. According to the encoding specificity principle, the context we are in when we try to retrieve a memory can also have a substantial impact on our likelihood of successfully accessing the correct memory trace. 
A definition of the term encoding variability principle is presented. The principle was formulated by the American psychologist Gordon Howard Bower. Encoding variability refers to the degree of variability in the environment and mood in which one learns the same material. 
Encoding Specificity is a principle that states that human memories are more easily retrieved if external conditions (emotional cues) at the time of retrieval are similar to those in existence at the time the memory was stored. 
Encoding Specificity. The encoding specificity principle of memory (Tulving & Thomson, 1973) provides an general theoretical framework for understanding how contextual information affects memory. Specifically, the principle states that memory is improved when information available at encoding is also available at retrieval. For example, the encoding specificity principle would predict that recall for information would be better if subjects were tested in the same room they had studied in versus having studied in one room and tested in a different room (see S.M. Smith, Glenberg, & Bjork, 1978).
The encoding specificity principle provides a framework for understanding how contextual information affects memory and recall. The principle, proposed by researchers Thomson and Tulving, states that memory is most effective when information available at encoding is also present at retrieval. This finding is a variation of the context-dependency effect of the encoding specificity principle and is much more apparent with low-imagery words than high-imagery words.
The principle explains why a subject is able to recall a target word as part of an unrelated word pair at retrieval with much more accuracy when prompted with the unrelated word than if presented with a semantically related word that was not available during encoding. This finding is a variation of the context-dependency effect of the encoding specificity principle and is much more apparent with low-imagery words than high-imagery words.