These chemicals, called goitrogens, are released when the raw vegetable is chewed or when our intestines break down the vegetable when it is only lightly steamed. Cook before you eat: Arugula, broccoli, kale, cauliflower, cabbage, turnip, collard greens, bok choy, brussels sprouts, radish, rutabaga, and watercress. Many of these cruciferous veggies are commonplace in our diets; arugula in salads, broccoli and cauliflower in veggie trays.
4. Cooking Collard Greens. There are about 1,000 recipes for cooking Collard Greens. You can steam, boil, braise and saute Sauté Collard. Greens they are considered a traditional side dish in the southern parts of The United, states and are even included as part of A New’year s celebration meal in that. area
1 Place strips in a large bowl. 2  Pour olive oil on collard strips and sprinkle on salt. 3  Massage the oil and salt into the strips with your hands until all pieces are well coated. 4  Whisk together apple cider vinegar, sun-dried tomatoes, onions, garlic, red pepper flakes and ground pepper.
Collard greens are one of my favorite greens to eat. Most people usually cook them and couldn’t imagine eating them raw. I’ve found a way that you can enjoy this hearty green in it’s raw and pristine state by massaging it down and marinating it. You would swear that it’s been cooked.
Instructions. 1  De-stem and chop the collard greens. 2  An easy way to de-stem collard greens is by folding them in half lengthwise along the stem with the darker green side down and then pull up the stem until it comes off and you’re left mostly with leaf.
1 The cholesterol-lowering ability of collard greens may be the greatest of all commonly eaten cruciferous vegetables. 2  In a recent study, steamed collard greens outshined steamed kale, mustard greens, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and cabbage in terms of its ability to bind bile acids in the digestive tract.
1 De-stem and chop the collard greens. 2  An easy way to de-stem collard greens is by folding them in half lengthwise along the stem with the darker green side down and then pull up the stem until it comes off and you’re left mostly with leaf.
Instructions. 1  De-stem and chop the collard greens. 2  Place strips in a large bowl. 3  Whisk together apple cider vinegar, sun-dried tomatoes, onions, garlic, red pepper flakes and ground pepper. 4  Pour apple cider vinegar dressing over the collard green strips.