The types of care provided are diverse, ranging from personal care to transport to medical care. They may provide care in conjunction with formal care arrangements, share care with other informal carers, or be the sole carer. The person responsible for the majority of informal caring is known as the primary carer. An informal carer is a person, such as a family member, friend or neighbour, who provides regular and sustained care and assistance to the person requiring support. Use of the adjective 'informal' does not imply that the care provided is thought to be casual or lacking in structure and process
Informal long-term home care is care and support provided by family members, friends and other unpaid volunteers. It is estimated that 90% of all home care is provided informally by a loved one without compensation and in 2015, families are seeking compensation from their government for caregiving. Long-term care can be provided at home, in the community, in assisted living facilities or in nursing homes. Long-term care may be needed by people of any age, although it is a more common need for senior citizens.
Long-term care services and support typically come from: 1  An unpaid caregiver who may be a family member or friend. 2  A nurse, home health or home care aide, and/or therapist who comes to the home. 3  Adult day services in the area. 4  A variety of long-term care facilities. 
Service system must be developed to support informal care. From a municipal viewpoint, informal care is a very inexpensive form of arranging care. However, the service system has not developed to support informal care, and developments in this matter have been just the opposite.
There I learnt that families are not expected to provide care for sick or elderly people though, of course, they may. The state is expected to find the means to provide such care. I was somewhat taken aback at the time. There, in Denmark, was a good illustration of the term formal and informal caregivers. In the United Kingdom, caregivers are called “carers”; that is, carers are families and significant others. I also feel a bit uneasy about that term. Care can have different meanings. It can mean to care for.
1 • A large majority (86%) of informal caregivers provide care for a relative, with over one-third (36%) taking care of a parent. One in seven (14%) care for a disabled child. 1 • Fifty-six percent of caregivers help their loved one with at least one activity of daily living (ADL). 1 • On average, informal caregivers spend 20.4 hours per week providing care. Those who live with their care recipient spend an average of 39.3 hours per week in this role. 1 • Informal caregivers provide an average of 4.6 years of care, with 31% proving care for five years or more.
Most Americans will be informal caregivers at some point during their lives. During any given year, there are more than 44 million Americans (21% of the adult population) who provide unpaid care to an elderly or disabled person 18 years or older. Altogether, informal caregivers provide 80 percent of the long-term care in the United States. 1  Sixty-one percent of caregivers are women. 2  Most caregivers are middle-aged. 3  Thirteen percent of caregivers are aged 65 years and older. 
Informal care always involves a life change that is caused by a family member’s disability or illness. Informal care affects all members of the entire family instead of being a lifestyle supported by the carer and care receiver. A majority of this care is carried out with the help of family members, relatives and friends without any official forms of support. The importance of recognizing informal care situations cannot be stressed enough, because it makes a more timely inclusion in service system possible. From a municipal viewpoint, informal care is a very inexpensive form of arranging care. However, the service system has not developed to support informal care, and developments in this matter have been just the opposite.
Long-term care can be provided formally or informally. Facilities that offer formal LTC services typically provide living accommodation for people who require on-site delivery of around-the-clock supervised care, including professional health services, personal care, and services such as meals, laundry and housekeeping. Long-term care can be provided at home, in the community, in assisted living facilities or in nursing homes. Long-term care may be needed by people of any age, although it is a more common need for senior citizens.