Fruits generally have higher amounts of sugar than starch, although some of the total carbohydrate content does come from starch. Avocados, mangoes, oranges, nectarines, peaches, apples, berries, grapefruit, pineapple, grapes and melons are just some of the fruits that have starch. Any food made with flour, even cake, cookies and brownies, contains starch. You’ll also get starch from crackers, pretzels, rice cakes and chips. While these processed foods give you some starch, they’re not foods you want to eat regularly.
Starch belongs to a group of chemical compounds called carbohydrates. They are called this because they contain only carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. Pure dry starch is a white granular powder. Wheat flour contains 70-73% starch and most commonly anywhere between 8 -14.5% protein. If you look at flour under a microscope you can see lots of brick like structures called cells. Starch is called a complex carbohydrate because it is made up of many sugar molecules linked together. It has two main parts: amylose and amylopectin. Amylose is a straight or linear chain of sugar molecules linked together. Amylopectin is a branched chain of sugars. Starch is a storage carbohydrate of plants such as cereals (wheat, maize, oats, rice and barley), tubers (potatoes, cassava and taro) and pulses (peas and beans)
Starch is a type of complex carbohydrate. During digestion, large-branched starch molecules undergo several steps before they are eventually converted into glucose, your body's main energy source. Vegetables usually fit into one of two categories: non-starchy or starchy. 
Starchy Cereals and Grains. Cereals and grains contain starch and can be nutritious. One serving is 1 slice of bread, 1/2 cup of oatmeal, 1/3 cup of rice or 3/4 cup of unsweetened cold cereal. Choose whole grains that contain more fiber and nutrients because the grain was not stripped of the endosperm, germ and bran during processing
The two polymers of starch are amylose and amylopectin. Depending on the plant, starch generally contains 20 to 25 percent amylose and 75 to 80 percent amylopectin. In general grain-derived starches have a higher amylose content as tuber-derived starches. Starch is one of the most abundant carbohydrates in nature and present in many food plants. Starch is by far the most consumed carbohydrates in the human diet. Traditional staple foods such as cereals, roots and tubers are the main source of dietary starch. Starch is one of the main energy sources in our diet.
Foods such as potatoes, rice, corn and wheat contain starch granules which are important energy sources for humans. The human digestive process breaks down the starches into glucose units with the aid of enzymes, and those glucose molecules can circulate in the blood stream as an energy source. The carbohydrates are the compounds which provide energy to living cells. They are compounds of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen with a ratio of two hydrogens for every oxygen atom. The carbohydrates we use as foods have their origin in the photosynthesis of plants. They take the form of sugars, starches, and cellulose.
Starchy foods contain slow-release carbohydrates and vegetal proteins. They include cereals (pasta, rice, maize, whole or cracked wheat), pulses (lentils, chickpeas, dried peas and beans) and other foods such as peas and potatoes. 
Starch is processed to produce many of the sugars in processed foods. Dissolving starch in warm water gives wheatpaste, which can be used as a thickening, stiffening or gluing agent. The biggest industrial non-food use of starch is as adhesive in the papermaking process. It consists of two types of molecules: the linear and helical amylose and the branched amylopectin. Depending on the plant, starch generally contains 20 to 25% amylose and 75 to 80% amylopectin by weight. Glycogen, the glucose store of animals, is a more branched version of amylopectin