Luigi is a masculine Italian given name. It is the Italian form of the German name Ludwig, through the Latinization Ludovicus, corresponding the French form Louis and its anglicized variant Lewis. Other forms of the same name in Italian are the names Ludovico, Clodoveo, Aloisio and Alvise. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Luigi. Luigi is the Italian form of the French Louis or the English Lewis, all of which are derived from an ancient Frankish/Germanic origin masculine name, Ludwig, from the Germanic elements “hlōd” (fame) and “wīg” (war). 
Share what you know! Nicknames for Luigi: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Luigi: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Luigi: | Edit. Share what you know! Luigi in song, story & screen: | Edit. Luigi, a Nintendo character. Also, he is Mario's brother. 
Luigi /lui-gi/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Luigi's name origins are French and Old German, and the name Luigi means famous warrior. Luigi is an alternate form of Louis (French, Old German). Compare last name Ligi. See also Aloysiu
Luigi is a form of the name Louis. Louis is the French form of the German name Ludwig. Ludwig is derived from the elements Hlud meaning fame and wig meaning warrior. The name was borne by sixteen French Kings and was frequently used in noble families. 
Meaning of Luigi. Italian name. In Italian, the name Luigi means-warrior. Other origins for the name Luigi include-Italian, German.The name Luigi is most often used as a boy name or male name. Italian Name Meaning-warrior. 
Luigi is used chiefly in English and Italian. It is derived from Germanic origins. Luigi is a variant of the name Louis (English and French). See also the related form, Gino (Italian). Luigi is uncommon as a baby boy name. At the modest height of its usage in 1913, 0.005% of baby boys were named Luigi.
German Meaning: The name Luigi is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Luigi is: Famous fighter. Italian Meaning: The name Luigi is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Luigi is: Renowned fighter. Form of the French Louis. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 4. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.