Valemount is a village municipality of 1,018 people in east central British Columbia, Canada located 320 kilometres (200 mi) from Kamloops, British Columbia. It is situated between the Rocky, Monashee, and Cariboo Mountains. In 1995, Valemount was invited to join the Columbia Basin Trust, created by the Columbia Basin Trust Act to benefit the region most adversely affected by the Columbia River Treaty.
Winter Activities: Valemount is the hub of the Cariboo, Monashee, and Rocky Mountains, and is the best base you can have for your heli-skiing and snowmobiling adventure. These mountains provide an ideal variety of snowmobiling terrain, including scenic logging roads, high plateaus, and steep mountain trails. Location: Valemount is located on the Yellowhead Highway 5, near the northern tip of Kinbasket Lake, 14 miles (22 km) south of Tete Jaune Cache and 200 miles (320 km) north of Kamloops.
The community responded positively to the new opportunities created by the Yellowhead Highway 5. Valemount registered a population increase of 15.5 percent in the 1960s—from 600 people to 693—and boomed in the 1970s with an increase of 67.4 percent—from 693 people to 1,160. In 1995, Valemount was invited to join the Columbia Basin Trust, created by the Columbia Basin Trust Act to benefit the region most adversely affected by the Columbia River Treaty.
This site is dedicated to hiking, biking, walking, skiing… and any mode of non-motorized transport that takes you down a trail. Valemount BC is nestled at the base of three mountain ranges that offer world-class sightseeing opportunities including of Mt. Robson, the tallest mountain in the Canadian Rocky Mountains. 
The naming of Valemount is well described in an article published in 1977 celebrating 50 years of Valemount: Kushnir, a young fellow employed by the C.N.R., was again called upon to pick up his bag and walk, so to speak, as a new location had been picked for the station. In 1995, Valemount was invited to join the Columbia Basin Trust, created by the Columbia Basin Trust Act to benefit the region most adversely affected by the Columbia River Treaty.
The quiet location of this Valemount hotel is nestled next to R.W. Staratt Wildlife Sanctuary, and every guest enjoys beautiful mountain views. We're close to Mount Robson where the hiking trails are unbeatable. Rafting is another popular sport in town and there's a variety of class rapids for every water lover. Our Valemount hotel is proud to regularly host businesses travelers with CN Rail, BC Hydro, Telus and Kinder Morgan. This Valemount hotel features clean, spacious rooms that complement a day of adventure. Guests feel right at home with the best in quality and amenities on hand. Travelers in town for a special event or meeting are delighted with our high tech conference center.
Valemount (population: 1,995) is surrounded by the Rocky, Monashee, and Cariboo mountain ranges, and a short drive to Mount Robson Provincial Park. This highway location and close proximity to the park translates into easy travel and access to incredible outdoor activities. These include hiking, bird watching, camping, fishing, whitewater rafting, snowmobiling, and cross-country skiing.
Cradled in a valley between the Rocky Mountains, the Monashee Mountains and the Cariboo Mountains, the friendly village of Valemount is itself nestled at the foot of Canoe Mountain. Valemount is the home of Mount Robson, at 3,954 metres the highest peak in the Rockies and the origin of the mighty Fraser River. This is real mountain country, with unparalleled natural beauty, quiet solitude, and clean mountain air in The Valley of the Mountains. Location: Valemount is located on the Yellowhead Highway 5, near the northern tip of Kinbasket Lake, 14 miles (22 km) south of Tete Jaune Cache and 200 miles (320 km) north of Kamloops.
Golf: Golfers can tee off at the Valemount Pine Golf & Country Club, a 9-hole semi-private golf course situated on a plateau with wonderful mountain views, or the Melsview Links Golf Club, a public 9-hole course located 1km South of Valemount on Highway 5. Golf Vacations in British Columbia. Location: Valemount is located on the Yellowhead Highway 5, near the northern tip of Kinbasket Lake, 14 miles (22 km) south of Tete Jaune Cache and 200 miles (320 km) north of Kamloops.