ghost. n. 1. The spirit of a dead person, especially one that is believed to appear to the living in bodily form or to haunt specific locations. 2. A person's spirit or soul: was sick for months and finally gave up the ghost. 3. A returning or haunting memory or image. 4. a. A slight or faint trace: just a ghost of a smile. 1. the soul of a dead person, a disembodied spirit imagined as wandering, often in vague or evanescent form, among the living and sometimes haunting them; wraith. 2. a mere shadow or semblance; trace: She's a ghost of her former self. 3. a remote possibility: not a ghost of a chance.
It is of status origins and was first used to describe a stranger or newcomer to a community. The derivation is from the pre 7th century Old Norse word gestr meaning a guest or visitor, but withe more specific translation of a stranger. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Benwoldus Guest. This was dated 1100 in the Old English Names Register, during the reign of King William 11nd of England, 1087 - 1100.
• MALE: 1. BETSALEL (בְּצַלְאֵל): Hebrew name meaning in the shadow.. In the bible, this is the name of a son of Uri who was one of the architects of the tabernacle, and the name of an Israelite.2. BEZALEEL: Anglicized form of Hebrew Betsalel, meaning in the shadow.. In the bible, this is the name of a son of Uri who was one of the architects of the tabernacle, and the name of an Israelite. 3. ITZAL: Basque name meaning shadow.4.MOLIMO: Native American Miwok name meaning bear walking into shade..n the bible, this is the name of a son of Benjamin and a descendent of Saul.• FEMALE: 1. SENKA: Serbian name meaning shadow.2. TSILLAH (צִלָה): Hebrew name meaning shade, shadow.. In the bible, this is the name of Lamech's second wife.3.
Soul English name of Latin origin. Actually the word anima, means anger, courage, essence, feeling, mind, passion, spirit It derives from PIE root ane -, meaning to breathe, the same root from which the words animal and animation were derived. Mahatma. European legend name of a fresh-water spirit believed to reside in sacred springs and rivers, meaning either wonder or sea-fog Melusine is depicted as being like a fish or serpent from the waist down.
Ghost/spirit name generator. This name generator will give you 10 random names for ghosts, spirits, phantoms and other ethereal beings. 
Yūrei (幽霊) are figures in Japanese folklore, analogous to Western legends of ghosts. The name consists of two kanji, 幽 (yū), meaning faint or dim and 霊 (rei), meaning soul or spirit..lternative names include 亡霊 (Bōrei) meaning ruined or departed spirit, 死霊 (Shiryō) meaning dead spirit, or the more encompassing 妖怪 (Yōkai) or お化け (Obake). Like their Chinese and Western counterparts, they are thought to be spirits kept from a peaceful afterlife.
UNISEX: ARIEL: Anglicized form of Hebrew unisex Ari'el, meaning lion of god.. In the bible, this is a name applied to the city of Jerusalem, and the name of a chief of the returning exiles. In the Apocrypha, this is the name of an archangel who rules the waters. ALASTOR (αλάστωρ): Greek name meaning avenging spirit.. In mythology, this is the name of the daimon spirit of family blood feuds, the afflicter of vengeance upon children for the crimes of their fathers.
First Known Use of GHOST. noun \ˈgōst\. : the spirit of a dead person thought of as living in an unseen world or as appearing to living people. noun \ˈgōst\. Full Definition of GHOST. 1. 2. : a disembodied soul; especially: the soul of a dead person believed to be an inhabitant of the unseen world or to appear to the living in bodily likeness.
Ghost Names, Spirit Names Names that mean ghost, spirit or soul. Bright spirits, owl spirits, gentle spirits, evil spirits, guardian spirits, spirit warriors, spirit protection, etc. ALASTOR (αλάστωρ): Greek name meaning avenging spirit.. In mythology, this is the name of the daimon spirit of family blood feuds, the afflicter of vengeance upon children for the crimes of their fathers.