Necron Canoptek Wraith attacking Imperial Guard Storm Troopers. A Canoptek Wraith is an automated robotic Necron construct that serves as the eyes and ears of the central operating system of any Tomb World, patrolling for intruders and inspecting the Necron sanctuary's ancient systems for signs of damage and decay. Trivia. The term canoptek is a play on the word canoptic, an adjective used to refer to an ancient Egyptian vase, urn, or jar, often known as a canoptic jar, that is used to hold the viscera of an embalmed body.
Its primary weapon is its dimensional destabilisation matrix-a phase shifter that allows it to skip in and out of reality, which was originally designed to allow a Canoptek Wraith to reach into and repair solid machinery, however it is as effective when dealing with intruders. 
A Canoptek Wraith can also be upgraded to carry one of the following pieces of Necron Wargear 1  : Particle Caster-A Particle Caster is a short-ranged pistol-sized Particle Weapon. 2  These weapons emit a stream of miniscule anti-matter particles that detonate on contact with normal matter. Trivia. The term canoptek is a play on the word canoptic, an adjective used to refer to an ancient Egyptian vase, urn, or jar, often known as a canoptic jar, that is used to hold the viscera of an embalmed body.
This idea of converting a Necron Wraith to look like it's phasing in was not my idea, I only executed it. After talking to one of my friends at my FLGS, he explained to me a cool idea he had for making a few Wraith conversions. That being said, there were a couple of things that had to happen for this to work best. The model now sits on a 50mm base instead of the normal 40mm sized base. The extra space was needed to fit the terrain on there.
That’s eight major advantages which is a lot for any one unit. They have decent shooting as well which makes the Wraiths more versatile and less dependent on support from other Necron units. That’s why I’m redesigning my current army into a Wraithwing – I think it’s just that good. Have at it gang. There’s no point to placing them in base contact with enemy models that automatically strike last such as Space Marines with power fists. I try to first make base contact with powerful enemy models such as characters so that the Wraiths can swing first before having to make any saves versus their return attacks.
Related: necron lord canoptek canoptek wraiths necron warriors necron immortals necron 40k necron barge necron canoptek necron triarch stalker necron deathmarks. necron wraith. Follow necron wraith to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow necron wraith to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following necron wraith i
In such a case, a Canoptek Wraith can phase its claws and tendrils inside an opponent, and resolidify them to sever arteries, nerve clusters and other vital pathways without leaving an external mark of what caused the victim's death. Trivia. The term canoptek is a play on the word canoptic, an adjective used to refer to an ancient Egyptian vase, urn, or jar, often known as a canoptic jar, that is used to hold the viscera of an embalmed body.
Overview. Wraiths have the ability to float, bringing death from above. They move like ghosts and attack with a terrifying fluidity. They have wide, hunched shoulders that support a leering skull of a face. Their arms are long and whip-like with scalpel blades for fingertips.
Trivia Edit. The term canoptek is a play on the word canoptic, an adjective used to refer to an ancient Egyptian vase, urn, or jar, often known as a canoptic jar, that is used to hold the viscera of an embalmed body. Notable Formations Edit. 1  Canoptek Swarm – Canoptek Scarabs can burrow through the bedrock of a world with a speed that far outstrips the most efficient Imperial drilling machines, creating passageways broad enough to allow the admission of Canoptek Spyders to oversee their work.