I use 6 cups frozen rhubarb, 2 cups sugar, 2 cups frozen strawberries and 1/3 cup cornstarch. Cook over lo-med heat til thick and pour into pie shell and top with another. Sprinkle with sugar. Be sure to cut slits in the top crust. Just thaw it overnight in the fridge. You can put it in a colander to let the excess water drain out. I never squeeze it. My recipe is 3c. chopped rhubarb, 2 c, sliced strawberries, 1 1/4- 1 1/2 c. sugar, 1/8 tsp. nutmeg, and 3 tbl. minute tapioca. Mix together, let sit 15 min or so, and bake in a lattice-top crust.
There is plenty of water in the rhubarb which has been frozen, and adding more will make the recipe too watery. When making most other recipes, such as a rhubarb cake, rhubarb muffins, rhubarb bread, rhubarb crumble, rhubarb squares, and so on, it is advisable to thaw the rhubarb prior to preparing the recipe. Thaw the rhubarb on the kitchen counter the evening before, in a sieve over a bowl, and discard the excess liquid. (Or use the liquid to add to a rhubarb punch recipe .). You will notice that, after the rhubarb has thawed, that it will appear to have shrunk. For example, if the recipe calls for 3 cups of fresh rhubarb, I will thaw about 4 cups of rhubarb that is frozen.
The ideal solution, of course, is to grow your own but if that is not possible, then you can use the frozen chopped unsweetened rhubarb that is sold in 1 pound (454 grams) bags. If you use frozen rhubarb you do not have to thaw the rhubarb before baking, although the baking time may have to be extended a bit. Once the rhubarb is soft, remove from oven and drain in a strainer suspended over a bowl. Press the rhubarb to force out the juice. There should be about 1/2 - 2/3 cup (120 - 160 ml) of juice. Place the juice into a small saucepan and boil the juice until reduced by half. Let cool
Sprinkle the tablespoon of tapioca over the bottom of the crust, and then pour in the diced rhubarb. 2. In a medium bowl, whisk together the sugar, nutmeg, and the remaining tapioca. Add the beaten eggs, and stir, with a spoon, until a thick batter forms — about 30 seconds. Then, for an extra-special pie, sprinkle the crust with sugar. Bake, on a baking sheet, in a preheated 450°F oven for 15 minutes. Then reduce the temperature to 350°F, and bake until the crust begins to brown — about 30 minutes.
(If making a 10 inch pie, or just want more filling, use 4 cups of rhubarb, 2 1/2 cups strawberries, and up to 1 1/4 cup of sugar). *Here's my favorite pie dough recipe. In a large bowl whisk together 2 cups flour, a teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons of sugar. To the flour mixture add 1 cup butter (2 sticks) of butter that has been cut into cubes. 1 Preheat oven to 400°F. In a large bowl, gently combine the rhubarb and the strawberries with the sugar, tapioca, salt, and orange zest. Let sit for 10 minutes. 2 Roll out your pastry dough and line the bottom of a pie dish with it. Trim to 1/2 inch from the edge.
Cut the stalks horizontally into small pieces -- no wider than 1/2-inch. Fresh rhubarb can be frozen for up to six months. Spread the rhubarb pieces in a single layer on a baking sheet. Place the pan in the freezer. Once the rhubarb is frozen, place all the pieces in a sealable bag and squeeze out the air. 
Hi. I make rhubarb pie all the time from frozen rhubarb. Just thaw it overnight in the fridge. You can put it in a colander to let the excess water drain out. I never squeeze it. My recipe is 3c. chopped rhubarb, 2 c, sliced strawberries, 1 1/4- 1 1/2 c. sugar, 1/8 tsp. nutmeg, and 3 tbl. minute tapioca. Mix together, let sit 15 min or so, and bake in a lattice-top crust.
Mix together the rhubarb, sugar, and orange zest and place in an ovenproof dish. Cover the dish with foil and bake for about 45 - 60 minutes or until the rhubarb is nice and soft. (Frozen rhubarb takes about one hour while fresh rhubarb may take only about 45 minutes.) Check and stir the rhubarb after 30 minutes. Once the rhubarb is soft, remove from oven and drain in a strainer suspended over a bowl. Press the rhubarb to force out the juice. There should be about 1/2 - 2/3 cup (120 - 160 ml) of juice. Place the juice into a small saucepan and boil the juice until reduced by half. Let cool
Combine Rhubarb and sugar in saucepan, add 1 cup of water. Bring to a boil and simmer for 6-9 minutes or until rhubarb is very soft. Drain off 1 cup of syrup and reserve for making the glaze. Put rhubarb and remaining syrup in the blender and puree (3 1/2 cups), then return it to the saucepan. If you add all of the thawed rhubarb, including 1/4 cup of the rhubarb liquid to replace the 1/4 cup of cream the pie will be both too dry and not really a cream pie. Including none of the rhubarb liquid will render the rhubarb chunks uncharacteristically chewy.