He is referring to people who would only support the patriots' cause if that cause seemed to be winning. Otherwise, such people would abandon the cause. This meaning can be seen from the context in which these words are written. Paine starts this particular piece by saying. THESE are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.
These are the times that try men's souls: The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of his country; but he that stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. Paine's writings bolstered the morale of the American colonists, appealed to the English people's consideration of the war with America, clarified the issues at stake in the war, and denounced the advocates of a negotiated peace. The first volume begins with the famous words These are the times that try men's souls..
There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. (These is the plural form of this, indicating a nearby location or example.). These are the times that try men's souls. 
These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands by i … t now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.. These words were written by Thomas Paine, propagandist extraordinaire. What did Thomas Paine mean when he said These are the times that try men's soul Americans must resist the temptation to be just summer soldiers and sunshine patriots?
THESE are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. 
“These are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman.he pamphlet was read to George Washington’s troops in December 1776. Days later, these same troops crossed the Delaware River and attacked the British encampment in Trenton, New Jersey. The pamphlet opens with a familiar line: “These are the times that try men’s souls.”.
Answers. Best Answer: The full sentence helps explain the meaning better: These are the times that try men's souls: The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of his country; but he that stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. THOMAS Paine's These are the times that test men's souls... I would lke to know what exactly does this quote mean, and also if I could get examples of it whether in your personal or public life. Thanks!
At the time Paine wrote those words, it looked like we would lose the American Revolution, and some people were walking away because times were getting tough. By saying These are the times that try [or test] men's souls, he was saying This is how we'll see what your spirit is really made of..HOMAS Paine's These are the times that test men's souls... I would lke to know what exactly does this quote mean, and also if I could get examples of it whether in your personal or public life. Thanks!
― Thomas Paine, The American Crisis. Like. “THESE are the times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service of their country; but he that stands by it now, deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. The pamphlet was read to George Washington’s troops in December 1776. Days later, these same troops crossed the Delaware River and attacked the British encampment in Trenton, New Jersey. The pamphlet opens with a familiar line: “These are the times that try men’s souls.”.
THE AMERICAN CRISIS. (1776-77). These are the times that try men's souls..  THE RIGHTS OF MAN. (1791-92). Paine's reply to an attack on the French Revolution by Edmund Burke.  AGE OF REASON. (1794, 1795, 1807). Paine's biting Deist criticism of the Bible and the church. In three parts. These are the times that try men's souls.. This simple quotation from Founding Father Thomas Paine's The American Crisis not only describes the beginnings of the American Revolution, but also the life of Paine himself.