Cystic fibrosis is a monogenic autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the CFTR gene (chromosome 7). More than 1250 mutations have been reported. Nearly 70% of all cases are caused by the delta F508 allele, with 30 other mutations accounting for a further 20% of cases.
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited condition that causes mucus to build up and clog some of the organs in the body, particularly in the lungs and pancreas. When mucus clogs the lungs, it can make breathing very difficult.
Cystic fibrosis is a common genetic disease within the white population in the United States. The disease occurs in 1 in 2,500 to 3,500 white newborns. Cystic fibrosis is less common in other ethnic groups, affecting about 1 in 17,000 African Americans and 1 in 31,000 Asian Americans.
Related Disorders. Symptoms of the following disorders can be similar to those of cystic fibrosis. Comparisons may be useful for a differential diagnosis. Primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD) is rare disorder involving the tiny, hair-structures that cover many cells of the body.
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease characterized by the buildup of thick, sticky mucus that can damage many of the body's organs. The disorder's most common signs and symptoms include progressive damage to the respiratory system and chronic digestive system problems.
Cystic fibrosis is a monogenic autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in the CFTR gene (chromosome 7). More than 1250 mutations have been reported. Nearly 70% of all cases are caused by the delta F508 allele, with 30 other mutations accounting for a further 20% of cases.
Another specific condition that may develop in individuals with cystic fibrosis is known as distal intestinal obstruction syndrome (DIOS), in which food, mucus and stool clog the intestines. This condition can cause stomach aches, bloating, cramping, nausea and loss of appetite.
Cystic Fibrosis. Cystic Fibrosis is a genetic disorder that affects the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems involving the production of abnormally thick mucus linings in the lungs and can lead to fatal lung infections. The disease can also result in various obstructions of the pancreas, hindering digestion.
In people with cystic fibrosis, the body produces mucus that is abnormally thick and sticky. This abnormal mucus can clog the airways, leading to severe problems with breathing and bacterial infections in the lungs. These infections cause chronic coughing, wheezing, and inflammation.