Sciatica is not so much a condition but actually a symptom. It refers to pain that begins in the hip and buttocks and continues all the way down the leg. This symptom is often accompanied by low back pain, which can be more or less severe than the leg pain. The term sciatica indicates that the sciatic nerve, which travels from the lower back through the buttocks and into the leg, is thought to be the cause of the pain in this condition.
Major nerves and blood vessels also run through the hip. These include the sciatic nerve at the back of the hip and femoral nerve at the front of the hip, and the femoral artery, which begins in the pelvis and passes by the front of the hip and down the thigh. email print share. email. print. 
Pain caused by a compression or irritation of the sciatic nerve by a problem in the lower back is called sciatica. Common causes of sciatica include the following lower back and hip conditions: spinal disc herniation, degenerative disc disease, lumbar spinal stenosis, spondylolisthesis, and piriformis syndrome. The sciatic nerve (/saɪˈaetɪk/ ; saɪˈætɪk also called ischiadic, nerve ischiatic) nerve is a large nerve in humans and other. Animals it begins in the lower back and runs through the buttock and down the lower. limb
Blood Vessels and Nerves of the Hip. The sciatic nerve is located where it could get injured from a backwards dislocation of the femoral head. The nerves in the hip supply the various muscles in the hip. These nerves include the femoral nerve, lateral femoral cutaneous nerve, and obturator nerve. The obturator nerve is also responsible for sensation over the thigh. The sciatic nerve is the most commonly recognized nerve in the hip and thigh. 
Pinched nerve is a painful condition in which, the nerves that extend outwards from the brain and spinal cord get pinched or compressed due to various reasons. The level of pain caused can be from no-pain to severe pain, and it can be temporary or long-lasting. Pinched Nerve in Hip. Pinched nerve in the hip is a condition in which a person experiences excruciating pain in the hip, that usually does not remain concentrated to the hip area, but slowly radiates outwards. In this Buzzle article, you will get a brief overview of the condition
Your hip is the joint where your thigh bone meets your pelvis. It is called a ball-and-socket joint, because the ball-like top of your thigh bone fits into a cup-like area within your pelvis, much like a baseball fits into a glove. You can have hip impingement for years and not know it, because it is often not painful in its early stages. When hip impingement causes symptoms, it may be referred to as hip impingement syndrome. The main symptoms are stiffness in the groin or front of the thigh and/or a loss of your hip's full range of motion.
About the Sciatic Nerve in the Low Back. The sciatic nerve starts in your low back, which is called your lumbar spine. The nerve roots are at the L4 and L5 vertebrae (the 'L' means lumbar, and the numbers indicate the level of the vertebra—where it is in your back). The sciatic nerve also travels through your pelvic region (sacrum). Sciatica is defined as a severe pain in a leg along the course of the sciatic nerve. The pain is felt in the back of the leg running from the buttock down the back of the thigh into the calf and foot. 1  The pain may begin abruptly or gradually, and is characterized by a sharp, shooting, or electric shock-like quality.
True sciatica is a condition that occurs when a herniated disc or osteoarthritic bone spurs compress and pinch one of the contributing roots of the sciatic nerve. This is known as a pinched nerve. This type of lower back pain is less common than other causes and conditions that produce back pain. For instance, sporting activities, recreational activities, and heavy labor can cause back and leg pain, which is commonly misdiagnosed as sciatica. This symptom is often accompanied by low back pain, which can be more or less severe than the leg pain. The term sciatica indicates that the sciatic nerve, which travels from the lower back through the buttocks and into the leg, is thought to be the cause of the pain in this condition.