Symptoms. Lordosis can cause pain that sometimes affects the ability to move. It is usually found in the lower back, where the inward curve can make the buttocks seem more prominent. When lying on the back on a hard surface, someone with a large degree of lordosis will have a space beneath the lower back and the surface. Print. The spine normally curves at the neck, the torso and the lower back area. This positions the head over the pelvis naturally. The curves also work as shock absorbers, distributing the stress that occurs during movement. When the spine curves too far inward, the condition is called lordosis or swayback.
Symptoms. The most common symptom for increased or loss of lordosis is muscle pain. Due to the unnatural “flat back/sway back” position of the spine or the excessive curve forward, the surrounding muscles of the back get pulled in ways they were not meant to be pulled and tighten or spasm. 
There are three main types of spine curvature disorders, including: 1  Lordosis. 2  Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 3  Kyphosis. 4  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature). 5  Scoliosis. 1 Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 2  Kyphosis. 3
1 Lordosis. 2  Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 3  Kyphosis. 4  Kyphosis is characterized by an abnormally rounded upper back (more than 50 degrees of curvature). 5  Scoliosis. 6  A person with scoliosis has a sideways curve to their spine. 1 Also called swayback, the spine of a person with lordosis curves significantly inward at the lower back. 2  Kyphosis. 3
Lordosis, also known as swayback, is a condition in which the spine in the lower back has an excessive curvature. The spine naturally curves at the neck, upper back, and lower back to help absorb shock and support the weight of the head. Lordosis occurs when the natural arch in the lower back, or lumbar region, curves more than normal. However, lordosis can affect people of any age. Other potential causes of lordosis include: 1  poor posture. 2  obesity. 3  osteoporosis (weakening of the bones with age). 4  discitis (a disorder of the disks between the spinal vertebrae). 5  kyphosis (an excessive outward curvature at the mid-back)
The term lordosis refers to the normal inward lordotic curvature of the lumbar and cervical regions of the spine. Excessive curvature of the lower back is known as lumbar hyperlordosis, commonly called sway back, hollow back or saddle back (after a similar condition that affects some horses). Excessive lordotic curvature – lumbar hyperlordosis, is also called hollow back, saddle back, and swayback, although swayback can also refer to a nearly opposite postural misalignment that can initially look quite similar.
Lordosis Causes. Also known by other names such as 'swayback' or 'saddle back', lordosis is defined as an increases curvature of the normally curved lumbar spine. The spine needs a natural curve to carry out its normal function and for this reason it is curved at the neck, the torso and the lower back area. A condition which is characterized by an exaggerated inward curve of the lower back, is known as lordosis. This article helps you understand what causes this condition. Also known by other names such as 'swayback' or 'saddle back', lordosis is defined as an increases curvature of the normally curved lumbar spine.