Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) is a disorder that usually occurs when an infection in the digestive system produces toxic substances that destroy red blood cells, causing kidney injury. See All » News & Features. 1  High Altitude. 2  E. Coli Kills 2 and Sickens Many; Focus Is on Beef. Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (HUS) often occurs after a gastrointestinal infection with E. coli bacteria (Escherichia coli O157:H7). However, the condition has also been linked to other gastrointestinal infections, including shigella and salmonella, as well as nongastrointestinal infections.
The uremic syndrome is characterized by the retention of a host of compounds which in healthy subjects are secreted into the urine by the healthy kidneys. These compounds disturb many physiologic functions, resulting in toxicity. Part of the retained compounds are the result of oxidative processes due to the inflammatory status of uremic patients; however, other compounds are not, and even the concentration of oxidative compounds will be further increased by disturbances of urinary clearance. Copyright 2006 S. Karger AG, Basel.
Both uremia and the uremic syndrome have been used interchangeably to define a very high plasma urea concentration that is the result of renal failure. The Uremic Syndrome can be defined as the terminal clinical manifestation of kidney failure (also called renal failure). It is the signs, symptoms and results from laboratory tests which result from inadequate excretory, regulatory and endocrine function of the kidneys.
Medications or substances causing Uremia: The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Uremia as a symptom. This list is incomplete and various other drugs or substances may cause your symptoms.
Topic Overview. Uremia (uremic syndrome) is a serious complication of chronic kidney disease and acute kidney injury (also known as acute renal failure). It occurs when urea and other waste products build up in the body because the kidneys are unable to eliminate them. These substances can become poisonous (toxic) to the body if they reach high levels. Prolonged or severe fluid buildup (edema) may make the uremic syndrome worse. Uremic syndrome may affect any part of the body and can cause: 1  Nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and weight loss. 2  Changes in mental status, such as confusion, reduced awareness, agitation, psychosis, seizures, and coma
Uremia or uraemia (see spelling differences) can be translated as  urea in the blood. Urea is one of the primary components of urine. It can be defined as an excess of amino acid and protein metabolism end products, such as urea and creatinine, in the blood that would be normally excreted in the urine. The Uremic Syndrome can be defined as the terminal clinical manifestation of kidney failure (also called renal failure). It is the signs, symptoms and results from laboratory tests which result from inadequate excretory, regulatory and endocrine function of the kidneys.
Causes of Uremia. Uremia is caused by reduced blood flow to the kidney due to kidney failure, dehydration, vomiting, diarrhea, bleeding, heart failure, shock and renal (kidney) artery embolism or occlusion. The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Uremia as a symptom. This list is incomplete and various other drugs or substances may cause your symptoms.
Atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome is a disease that primarily affects kidney function. This condition, which can occur at any age, causes abnormal blood clots (thrombi) to form in small blood vessels in the kidneys. These clots can cause serious medical problems if they restrict or block blood flow. As a result of clot formation in small blood vessels, people with atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome experience kidney damage and acute kidney failure that lead to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in about half of all cases.