7. For an easy-to-use graphical illustration of when baby should sit up, please see our baby development chart. What this information says is that at age 7 months, roughly 70% of all babies can sit alone for short periods of up to about half a minute. And 90% of all babies can do so by about 9 months old.. Similarly, by about 3 months about 50% of all babies can sit when supported with cushions. Let’s say have a baby of about 7 months old who does not sit alone for short periods.
Five months to six months. Your baby will be able to sit well with support, holding her head up and her back straight (Sheridan 2008) . Your baby may be able to sit for a moment without your help. Just make sure you stay nearby to provide support, or surround her with pillows to cushion a possible fall.
What to do if your baby doesn't sit up. If your baby isn't able to hold his head up steadily by the time he's about 4 months old and hasn't started learning to prop himself up on his arms shortly after that or is unable to sit by 9 months, bring it up the next time you talk to his doctor. While you can prop your baby in a sitting position almost from day one, true independent sitting doesn't begin until he has head control. Starting at about 4 months, your baby's neck and head muscles strengthen rapidly, and he'll learn to raise and hold his head up while he's lying on his stomach.
Sits Up. How different the world looks when you're not stuck on your belly! Around 5 or 6 months, most babies can sit up with support -- either by resting on their hands in front of them or by leaning on pillows or furniture. Babies can usually sit alone steadily by 7-9 months. If you have an 8-month-old, you may want to put your gym membership on hold. 
9. For an easy-to-use graphical illustration of when baby should sit up, please see our baby development chart. What this information says is that at age 7 months, roughly 70% of all babies can sit alone for short periods of up to about half a minute. And 90% of all babies can do so by about 9 months old.. Similarly, by about 3 months about 50% of all babies can sit when supported with cushions. Let’s say have a baby of about 7 months old who does not sit alone for short periods.
Confidence votes 30. All babies develop at their own pace. A baby should be able to sit up by themselves between 5 and 7 months. Keep in mind in the beginning they will need some support like pillows stacked around them and as time goes on and muscles strengthen they will be able to do it by themselves. When do babies start sitting up by themselves?   Baby's start sitting on their own and getting into a sitting position between 6.5 months and 10 months.
By the time your baby is eight months old, she should be able to sit well without support (NHS nd, Sheridan 2008) . Nearly all babies can sit on their own by the time they are nine months old (NHS nd, Sheridan 2008) . 