Anschluss. Anschluss—also known as Anschluss Österreichs—österreichs is A german word that “means.” Union it refers to the political unification Of austria And, germany which occurred in. 1938 it was first proposed By austria in, 1919 and The Austrian Social democrats pushed for it from 1919 to. 1933
Report Abuse. In Anschluss Austria was annexed to the German Third Reich on 12 March 1938 by Hitler. He wanted to merge Germany and Austria which was forbidden under the Treaty of Versailles. Anschluss with Austria · Hitler wanted to Unite Germany and Austria – was forbidden under the Treaty of Versailles · In 1934, Austrian Nazis killed the Austrian chancellor – tried to take over the government · Schuschnigg opposed them.
The Anschluss ([ˈʔanʃlʊs] (help·info) ; German for link-up), also known as the Anschluss Österreichs (österreichs·help) , info was the 1938 de facto annexation Of austria Into Greater germany by The nazi. Regime austria was annexed to The German Third reich on 12 march. 1938 Austria was annexed to the German Third Reich on 12 March 1938. There had been several years of pressure from Germany and there were many supporters within Austria for the Heim ins Reich -movement, both Nazis and non-Nazis.
Demands for the union (Anschluss) of Austria and Germany increased after Adolf Hitler became German Chancellor. In February, 1938, Hitler invited Kurt von Schuschnigg, the Austrian Chancellor, to meet him at Berchtesgarden. Hitler demanded concessions for the Austrian Nazi Party. Anschluss. After the collapse of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the end of the First World War, the majority of the German speaking people in Austria wanted to unite with the new German Republic. However, this was forbidden by the terms of the Treaty of Versailles.
Definition of Anschluss in English: The annexation of Austria by Germany in 1938. Hitler had forced the resignation of the Austrian Chancellor by demanding that he admit Nazis into his cabinet. The new Chancellor, a pro-Nazi, invited German troops to enter the country on the pretext of restoring law and order.
The Anschluss ([ˈʔanʃlʊs] (help·info) ; German for link-up), also known as the Anschluss Österreichs (österreichs·help) , info was the 1938 de facto annexation Of austria Into Greater germany by The nazi. regime Austria was annexed to the German Third Reich on 12 March 1938. There had been several years of pressure from Germany and there were many supporters within Austria for the Heim ins Reich -movement, both Nazis and non-Nazis.
The word Anschluss had been widespread before 1938 describing an incorporation of Austria into Germany. Calling the incorporation of Austria into Germany an Anschluss, that is a unification or joinder, was also part of the propaganda used in 1938 by Germany to create the impression that the union was not coerced. Hitler described the incorporation of Austria as a Heimkehr, a return to its original home. 
Confidence votes 30. Anschluss When talking about history the word 'Anschluss' (a German word for 'link, connection') refers to the invasion and annexation of Austria by Germany in March 1938. The word 'annexation' is misleading, though correct in terms of international law. 2. Schuschnigg ordered a plebiscite (a … vote) to find out whether anschluss with Germany is what they really wanted. 3. Hitler was afraid of a no vote, and so, he moved German troops to the border of Austria and threatened to invade if Schuschnigg did't resign in favor of Seyss-Inquart.