Within the red blood cells there is a protein called hemoglobin. Each hemoglobin protein is made up subunits called hemes, which are what give blood its red color. More specifically, the hemes can bind iron molecules, and these iron molecules bind oxygen.
Hemoglobin is an iron-containing protein found in the blood of nearly all vertebrates and many invertebrates. It transports oxygen from the lungs or gills of an animal to the tissues. Four polypeptide chains, each wrapped in a specific way around its own heme group, make up the hemoglobin molecule.
The primary function of hemoglobin (Hb) is to transport oxygen. Since oxygen is not very soluble in water (the major constituent of blood), an oxygen transport protein must be used to allow oxygen to be 'soluble'. Hemoglobin (Hb) is the oxygen transport protein used in the blood of vertebrates.
A hemoglobin molecule is composed of a protein group, known as globin, and four heme groups, each associated with an iron atom. In the lungs, each iron atom combines reversibly with a molecule of oxygen. Each hemoglobin molecule also has attached a single cysteine amino acid, which attracts nitric oxide from the lungs.
Blood is red because of the hemoglobin inside our red blood cells. Hemoglobin is a protein that forms a complex with iron molecules and together they transport oxygen molecules throughout the body. Iron has the property of reflecting red light and because there is so much iron in our blood, blood looks red.
Each globulin chain contains an important central structure called the heme molecule. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together.