STANDARD RATES APPLY: Wisconsin school districts could pay more than $250 million combined for the implementation of Common Core State Standards, according to a Fordham Institute analysis. By M.D. Kittle | Wisconsin Reporter. Eilene Depka, curriculum director for the district, estimates the cost to implement new curriculum at around $100 per student, but she asserts the Common Core will not cost the district “any more or any less.”.
The same scenario may play out with states’ technological infrastructure. Additionally, if states’ existing curricula do not align with the Common Core State Standards, schools and districts may need to purchase new textbooks and instructional materials aligned to the Common Core State Standards. 1 Depending on the state, upfront costs are borne between states and school districts. 2  One-time costs do not occur in one fiscal year alone but rather over the course of the implementation period (i.e., over multiple fiscal years).
The total waiver cost for Kansas is estimated at between $34 million and $63 million over five years. The total cost for school districts to implement the common core is put at between $32 million and $60 million, although that's over only the next two years. Of those common-core costs, the audit estimates that over the next two years, $30 million to $50 million will be due to new instruction materials.
First, our analysis conceives of the costs borne by states and districts as occurring within a single “year” as they transition to the Common Core. 12 Of course, it is likely that these costs will be spread over one to three years prior to full implementation in 2014–15. Common Core. Balanced Implementation costs less than half as much as the more traditional Business as Usual. The gross transitional costs for California, for instance, range from $1.6 billion under the Business as Usual approach to $380 million under Bare Bones.
Fordham estimates costs in Wisconsin could range from $62.3 million for the “bare bones” approach to $256.1 million for the most expensive, traditional model. The price tag for a hybrid plan, using at least some technology to facilitate the Common Core, is pegged at $106.5 million. Eilene Depka, curriculum director for the district, estimates the cost to implement new curriculum at around $100 per student, but she asserts the Common Core will not cost the district “any more or any less.”.
States face key spending decisions as they implement the Common Core State Standards, and a new study finds that they could save about $927 million—or spend as much as $8.3 billion—depending on the approaches they choose in three vital areas: curriculum materials, tests, and professional development. In California, for instance, Fordham estimates that the net cost of a business-as-usual approach would be $1 billion, compared with $533 million in current spending in the three areas in the study.
By Andrew Ujifusa on December 14, 2012 12:03 PM. Tweet. Implementing the Common Core State Standards will cost school districts in Kansas $16 million to $30 million over the next two years, a state audit finds, significantly below similar estimates from other studies released by education policy think tanks. Of those common-core costs, the audit estimates that over the next two years, $30 million to $50 million will be due to new instruction materials.
Implementation costs will be even more problematic in larger states like California. The California Department of Education estimates that Common Core will cost the state about $760 million. Outside estimates place California's fiscal commitment at up to $1.6 billion. California already expects a $3 billion deficit at the end of fiscal year 2011, and a $10 billion deficit in 2012-13. Local school districts will be required to pay for at least $165.5 million of the new spending, and the cost of new textbooks alone is expected to top $122 million — a fact that has even the standards' most enthusiastic endorsers worried.
Answers are neither easy nor straightforward. Estimates vary widely, and, depending on a state’s readiness for computer-based assessments, so will the costs. A number of factors will determine the cost states will ultimately incur due to Common Core State Standards implementation. For instance, states with a dated or sparse computer inventory will face higher upfront costs but may have fewer operating costs in five years due to a newly purchased inventory. 1 Depending on the state, upfront costs are borne between states and school districts. 2  One-time costs do not occur in one fiscal year alone but rather over the course of the implementation period (i.e., over multiple fiscal years).