My grandmother has had a spot on her lung for 20 years, they just kept watching it. She is now 96. A spot on the lungs does not mean lung cancer, that is just one of the many things it could be. The fact that he is not a smoker increases the chances that it could be one of the many other things. In a non-smoking 34-year-old man it is highly likely that these 2 spots are not cancer. If they are in the area of the pneumonia, they could even be patches of slowly resolving infection. The densities and other characteristics of these 2 spots on the CT scan should enable your husband.
This is often the first test your doctor will do to look for any masses or spots on the lungs. Plain x-rays of your chest can be done at imaging centers, hospitals, and even in some doctors’ offices. If the x-ray is normal, you probably don’t have lung cancer (although some lung cancers may not show up on an x-ray). 
Answer: A solitary spot on a chest X-ray — generally referred to as a lung nodule — sometimes can be an early cancer, so it's important to talk to your doctor to determine the best course of action. Lung nodules are common and typically noncancerous (benign). Tests may include the following: 1  CT scan of the chest if the nodule was first seen on a chest X-ray; 2  Positron emission tomography (PET) scan to see how active the nodule cells are — high cellular activity is an indicator of cancer or active inflammation; and/or. 3  Tissue sample (biopsy the nodule).
Factors that influence the likelihood that a solo spot on a lung X-ray indicates cancer include: 1  age: If you’re in your fifties or older, you have a 50 percent chance of a nodule being cancerous. While not all lung cancers will appear on an X-ray, you likely don’t have lung cancer if the X-ray looks normal. If a spot does appear on your X-ray, your doctor will probably want to order more tests to learn more, such as: 1  computed tomography (CT) scan. 2  magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.
A benign lung tumor is an abnormal growth of tissue that serves no purpose and is found not to be cancerous. Benign lung tumors may grow from many different structures in the lung. Determining whether a nodule is a benign tumor or an early stage of cancer is very important. The first thing that may come to mind is a dreaded word: cancer. In many cases, though, a lung nodule turns out to be benign. This means that it isn't cancer. A hard part is waiting and not knowing.
A lung nodule is a spot at least two centimeters in diameter that appears on an X-ray of the lung. Spots that are smaller than one centimeter often can’t be seen on a chest X-ray. Spots that are more than two centimeters are considered a mass, not a nodule. While not all lung cancers will appear on an X-ray, you likely don’t have lung cancer if the X-ray looks normal. If a spot does appear on your X-ray, your doctor will probably want to order more tests to learn more, such as: 1  computed tomography (CT) scan. 2  magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.
A chest X-ray is usually the first test your doctor will perform to look for spots or masses on your lungs. This X-ray may be given at an imaging center or hospital. While not all lung cancers will appear on an X-ray, you likely don’t have lung cancer if the X-ray looks normal. If a spot does appear on your X-ray, your doctor will probably want to order more tests to learn more, such as: 1  computed tomography (CT) scan. 2  magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.
A nodule is a spot on the lung, seen on an X-ray or computed tomography (CT) scan. In fact, a nodule shows up on about one in every 500 chest X-rays. Normal lung tissue surrounds this small round or oval solid overgrowth of tissue. It may be a single or solitary pulmonary nodule. Or, you may have multiple nodules. Your lung nodule is more likely to be benign if: 1  You are younger than age 40. 2  You are a nonsmoker. 3  There is calcium in the nodule. 4  The nodule is small. The first thing that may come to mind is a dreaded word: cancer. In many cases, though, a lung nodule turns out to be benign. This means that it isn't cancer. A hard part is waiting and not knowing.
Lung Cancer. Lung cancer is known to be the leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States in both men and women. Lung cancer often appears as a spot or nodule on the lungs when a chest x-ray is taken. People who smoke are at a high risk of developing this condition. There are several other risk factors which include the family history of a person, exposure to radon gas, smoke and asbestos
However, keep in mind that a spot on a chest X-ray is common and lung nodules usually indicate a benign condition rather than cancer. Nevertheless, a spot on the lungs can sometimes indicate a problem and your doctor should monitor it closely over time for changes and growth. While not all lung cancers will appear on an X-ray, you likely don’t have lung cancer if the X-ray looks normal. If a spot does appear on your X-ray, your doctor will probably want to order more tests to learn more, such as: 1  computed tomography (CT) scan. 2  magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan.