In 1789, George Washington was unanimously elected as the first President of the United States, the only man to ever achieve a unanimous election by the electoral college.
First U.S. president elected. George Washington, the commander of the Continental Army during the Revolutionary War, is unanimously elected the first president of the United States by all 69 presidential electors who cast their votes. John Adams of Massachusetts, who received 34 votes, was elected vice president.
America elected its first president and vice president. General George Washington, a greatly revered and honored military leader was elected president and John Adams was elected vice president. Delegates from all the colonies met in the US capitol, New York, to vote for the two men that will lead this country.
George Washington was elected president of the United States in 1789 and again in 1792. His first election spanned the period from November, 1788 to early 1789, and Congress officially certified the electoral vote on April 6, 1789. Washington was inaugurated on April 30, 1789, and served until March 4, 1797.
Home George Washington The First President. Unanimously elected twice, President Washington established many crucial presidential precedents. In 1789, George Washington became the first president of the United States, unanimously elected to the office and enjoying wide support from both politicians and the public alike. Washington helped shape the office's future role and powers, as well as set both formal and informal precedents for future presidents.
George Washington was born on February 22, 1732, in Westmoreland County, Virginia. Washington served as a general and commander-in-chief of the colonial armies during the American Revolution, and later became the first president of the United States, serving from 1789 to 1797.
On this day in 1789, 69 members of Congress cast their ballots to elect George Washington the first president of the United States. As the former leader of the Continental Army and chairman of the Continental Congress, Washington possessed the necessary credentials for the presidency, if not the enthusiasm.
George Washington was known as the Father of our Country and was unanimously elected the first President of the United States (1789-1797). He was Commander of the American forces during the Revolutionary War and helped frame the Constitution of the United States.