Gemstone Healing Properties. Throughout the ages, the healing properties of gemstones, their beauty, and magic have been recognised and harnessed. As far back as the Stone Age, men and women wore crystal jewellery. They had a protective, as well as a decorative function, guarding their wearer against harm. Descriptions of the healing properties of gemstones are from the following sources:  1  Love is in the Earth: A Kaleidoscope of Crystals  by Melody (I highly recommend this book); . 2  My own experiences and observations of gemstones.
Gemstones have a long history of use in ornamentation, and have been attributed metaphysical properties, or come from exotic locales. Find out more about the gemstones you work with. 1  Beading Resources. 2  Encyclo-BEADia. 3  Gem Notes. 
A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition. Minerals can be described by various physical properties which relate to their chemical structure and composition. Common distinguishing characteristics include crystal structure and habit, hardness, lustre, diaphaneity, colour, streak, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, parting, and specific gravity.
Only 10 or 12 of the major gemstones have the ideal hardness, which is greater than 7. This ideal hardness designation stems from the fact that quartz (H=7) is the most abundant mineral on Earth and present as tiny particles in the dust that settles on jewelry, which can lead to scratching and abrasion. 
Whether a gemstone is a natural stone or lab-created (synthetic), the physical characteristics are the same. Lab-created stones tend to have a more vivid colour to them, as impurities are not present in a lab and do not modify the clarity or colour of the stone, unless added intentionally for a specific purpose. A few gemstones are used as gems in the crystal or other form in which they are found. Most however, are cut and polished for usage as jewelry. The picture to the right is of a rural, commercial cutting operation in Thailand. This small factory cuts thousands of carats of sapphire annually.
Some minerals such as gold will only appear as one color, but due to impurities and crystal light distortion, many minerals can appear in multiple colors. Therefore, observable specimen color is the least effective property in identification. Streak --The color of a mineral in powdered form. Some minerals have a fixed chemical composition, and some minerals have a rigid set of chemical composition parameters that allow for the replacement of certain elements with other elements.
When you wear a piece of jewelry made with gemstones, you are literally tapping into the healing life force energy of our planet and universe. Each gem offers it’s unique healing properties to you. They clear blocks and bring fresh life force energy to the parts of you that have become stagnant. 
Chemical Composition --Minerals are chemicals, either elements or compounds found naturally in the Earth. Some minerals have a fixed chemical composition, and some minerals have a rigid set of chemical composition parameters that allow for the replacement of certain elements with other elements.
Gemstones: meanings & properties. Probably the first stone used for ornamental purposes was a smooth colored river rock. Or maybe a pretty river stone was spotted before a hunter successfully got his dinner. The hunter then carried that pretty river stone with him as his lucky hunting stone. 