Messenger RNA. Whereas most types of RNA are the final products of their genes, messenger RNA (mRNA) is an intermediate in the information transfer process. It carries information from DNA to the ribosome in a genetic code that the protein-synthesizing machinery translates into protein. 
Protein synthesis is the process in which the correct amino acids are connected together in the order that is written on the gene. 1. Messenger RNA. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is produced in the nucleus by a process called transcription. Messenger RNA carries genetic information from DNA to the cytoplasm where the amino acids will be connected together. 2. From DNA to RNA to Protein. In order to synthesize a protein, the genetic information in the DNA must be converted to an amino acid sequence. Its similar to the way that someone needs to read a recipe and mix the correct ingredients together. Step 1- Transcription involves the synthesis of mRNA from template DNA.
Transcription is the process by which the genetic information stored in DNA is used to produce a complementary RNA strand. In more detail, the DNA base sequence is first copied into an RNA molecule, called premessenger RNA, by messenger RNA (mRNA) polymerase. 
Once in the cytoplasm, ribosomes and another RNA molecule called transfer RNA work together to translate mRNA into a protein. This process is called translation. Proteins can be manufactured in large quantities because a single DNA sequence can be transcribed by many RNA polymerase molecules at once. DNA transcription is a process that involves transcribing genetic information from DNA to RNA. The transcribed DNA message, or RNA transcript, is used to produce proteins. DNA is housed within the nucleus of our cells. It controls cellular activity by coding for the production of proteins.
During transcription, a strand of mRNA is formed that is complementary to the sequence within the DNA. Transcription begins when RNA polymerase binds to the DNA promoter for a gene. The DNA helix is unwound and the primary mRNA strand is made by RNA polymerase. From DNA to RNA to Protein. In order to synthesize a protein, the genetic information in the DNA must be converted to an amino acid sequence. Its similar to the way that someone needs to read a recipe and mix the correct ingredients together. Step 1- Transcription involves the synthesis of mRNA from template DNA.
Summary. The process of copying DNA into messenger RNA (mRNA) is called transcription. Transcription factors assemble at the promoter region of a gene, bringing an RNA polymerase enzyme to form the transcription initiation complex. Activator proteins at the enhancer region of DNA then activate the transcription initiation complex. 
Transcription takes place in the cytoplasm (prokaryote) or in the nucleus (eukaryote). The transcription is performed by an enzyme called RNA polymerase. To make mRNA, RNA polymerase: 1  Binds to the DNA strand at a specific sequence of the gene called a promoter. 2  Unwinds and unlinks the two strands of DNA. 3  Uses one of the DNA strands as a guide or template. 
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription. In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).
The DNA contains the master plan for the creation of the proteins and other molecules and systems of the cell, but the carrying out of the plan involves transfer of the relevant information to RNA in a process called transcription. The RNA to which the information is transcribed is messenger RNA (mRNA). The process associated with RNA polymerase is to unwind the DNA and build a strand of mRNA by placing on the growing mRNA molecule the base complementary to that on the template strand of the DNA.
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. In this situation, translation begins at the 5' end of the mRNA while the 3' end is still attached to DNA. In all types of cells, the ribosome is composed of two subunits: the large (50S) subunit and the small (30S) subunit (S, for svedberg unit, is a measure of sedimentation velocity and, therefore, mass).