DEFINITION of 'Z-Score'. A Z-Score is a statistical measurement of a score's relationship to the mean in a group of scores. A Z-score of 0 means the score is the same as the mean. A Z-score can also be positive or negative, indicating whether it is above or below the mean and by how many standard deviations. 
SCORE may refer to: 1  SCORE (software) , a music scorewriter program. 2  SCORE (Spain) , a free general sports magazine. 3  SCORE (television) , a defunct joint television network. 4  SCORE! Educational Centers. 
5 Years of SCORE Prize. SCORE Prize celebrates Tennessee schools and districts that are leaders in student learning. Tickets are free and include a special musical performance by Charles Esten, who stars as Deacon on ABC's Nashville. 
Your FICO Scores only look at information in your credit report. Your credit score is calculated from your credit report. However, lenders look at many things when making a credit decision such as your income, how long you have worked at your present job and the kind of credit you are requesting. 
South Correctional Entity. ***TRAFFIC ALERT DUE TO CONSTRUCTION***. Construction crews have reduced S 200th Street to the east of SCORE's entrance to one lane during normal business hours. Allow extra time for construction delays if coming to the facility during normal business hours. SCORE (South Correctional Entity) is a jail in Des Moines, Washington serving the confinement needs of 7 Member Cities and a number of contract agencies with a total capacity of 802 inmates.
BREAKING DOWN 'FICO Score'. Using mathematical models, the FICO score takes into account various factors in each of these five areas to determine credit risk: payment history, current level of indebtedness, types of credit used and length of credit history, and new credit. DEFINITION of 'FICO Score'. A type of credit score that makes up a substantial portion of the credit report that lenders use to assess an applicant's credit risk and whether to extend a loan. FICO is an acronym for the Fair Isaac Corporation, the creators of the FICO score. Next Up.
score. 1. the record of points or strokes made by the competitors in a game or contest. 2. the total points or strokes made by one side or competitor. 3. the performance of an individual or group on an examination or test, expressed by a number or other symbol. 4. a notch, scratch, or incision. 
Standard Score. The standard score (more commonly referred to as a z-score) is a very useful statistic because it (a) allows us to calculate the probability of a score occurring within our normal distribution and (b) enables us to compare two scores that are from different normal distributions. Standard Normal Distribution and Standard Score (z-score). When a frequency distribution is normally distributed, we can find out the probability of a score occurring by standardising the scores, known as standard scores (or z scores).