Kesh is a symbol of devotion to God, reminding Sikhs that they should obey the will of God. At the Amrit Sanchar in 1699, Guru Gobind Singh explained the reason for this: My Sikh shall not use the razor. For him the use of razor or shaving the chin shall be as sinful as incest. The practice is one of the Five Ks, the outward symbols ordered by Guru Gobind Singh in 1699 as a means to profess the Sikh faith. The hair is combed twice daily with a Kanga, another of the Five Ks, and tied into a simple knot known as a Joora or Rishi knot.
The Kesh (unshorn hair) is regarded with the highest importance in the Sikh religion and is one of the basic requirements for a Sikh. Dishonouring one’s hair is a gross transgression and the offender Sikh is branded a patit “an apostate”. Kesh – Unshorn hair. The Kesh (unshorn hair) is regarded with the highest importance in the Sikh religion and is one of the basic requirements for a Sikh. Dishonouring one’s hair is a gross transgression and the offender Sikh is branded a patit “an apostate”. A Patit is no more a Sikh.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They do-almost every 'Khalsa' breaks his religious laws. Of the 5 K’s the Kesh (hair and beard, eyebrows, body hair) is shorn by a massive (maybe 99 %, yes 99 %) majority of the young 'Khalsa', weather they are in the UK or the fields of Punjab. Even the 'Khalsa's who keep the hair will reject 3 other physical symbols. 
—– NAILS & HAIR —–. Someone could argue why do Sikhs cut their nails when they don’t cut their hair. Firstly, nails and the importance of hair cannot be compared. The hair is sacred that have a spiritual importance whereas the nails merely have biological function. Kesh – Unshorn hair. The Kesh (unshorn hair) is regarded with the highest importance in the Sikh religion and is one of the basic requirements for a Sikh. Dishonouring one’s hair is a gross transgression and the offender Sikh is branded a patit “an apostate”. A Patit is no more a Sikh.
A: This question is frequently asked, “Why do you keep hair?” Hair is a gift from God, therefore why should anyone give it away by cutting it? Hair is one of the five articles of faith for Sikhs. Sikhs live the way God made humans and never cut their hair. Sikhs are not to use razors or any other such devices on their bodies from the time of birth, for they do not cut their hair from any part of their bodies. In order to keep hair neat and clean, Sikhs roll the hair on the top of their head. The hair is then covered by different types of turbans.
Shanti Kaur Khalsa explains why Sikhs don't cut their hair. Cutting the hair is one of the co-rehets, meaning Guru Gobind Singh commanded that Sikhs shouldn't do it. The hair (kesh) is also one of the 5 k's. The hair channels spiritual energy in action, which helps people in the householder lifestyle. There are also traditions where people shave their heads completely.
Shanti Kaur Khalsa explains why Sikhs don't cut their hair. Cutting the hair is one of the co-rehets, meaning Guru Gobind Singh commanded that Sikhs shouldn't do it. The hair (kesh) is also one of the 5 k's. The hair channels spiritual energy in action, which helps people in the householder lifestyle. There are also traditions where people shave their heads completely
Best Answer: In Sikhism, Kesh (sometimes Kes) is the practice of allowing one's hair to grow naturally as a symbol of respect for the perfection of God's creation. 
In Sikhism, Kesh (sometimes Kes) is the practice of allowing one's hair to grow naturally as a symbol of respect for the perfection of God's creation. The practice is one of the Five Ks, the outward symbols ordered by Guru Gobind Singh in 1699 as a means to profess the Sikh faith. The hair is combed twice daily with a Kanga, another of the Five Ks, and tied into a simple knot known as a Joora or Rishi knot.