Please try again later. This Video is taken from the Video Game Star Trek Legacy and about the origin of the borg and was V'ger has to do with it. I think it is a very interesting addition to the Star Trek Universe. 1  Entertainment. 2  Standard YouTube License.
Many Maltese are under the impression that the surname Borg is derived from an Arabic source and this theory is based on the fact that the Maltese word borg (an Arabic derived word) means a heap of stones or rock. In Arabic, it means tower. When did the first person with the surname Borg (or Borja) first get to Malta? Is Borg the Maltinised version of Borja, as Borgia was the Italianised version? But now that we know where it all started, the research should proceed at a quicker pace.
The coat of arms of the surname Borg may eventually give us an important or even definitive indication of its origins. The coat of arms is composed of a tower, which indicates that it originates from somewhere where there was a tower, castle or other fortifications of sorts. When did the first person with the surname Borg (or Borja) first get to Malta? Is Borg the Maltinised version of Borja, as Borgia was the Italianised version? But now that we know where it all started, the research should proceed at a quicker pace.
Borg is a common surname in the Nordic countries as well as in Malta. Borg may refer to: 1  Åke åke, Borg swedish, swimmer twin brother Of. 2  Arne Alex, Borg maltese snooker.  player This page or section lists people with the surname Borg. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
Borg is a common surname in the Nordic countries as well as in Malta. Borg may refer to: 1  Åke åke, Borg swedish, swimmer twin brother Of. 2  Arne Alex, Borg maltese snooker. 3  Player Anders, Borg swedish. 4  Politician Andy, Borg austrian. 5  Singer Anita, Borg american historical computer.  scientist This page or section lists people with the surname Borg. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
Borg /borg/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced borg. It is of Scandinavian origin, and the meaning of Borg is castle. Familiar to sci-fi fans as the name of an invincible hive-species on the 1990s TV series Star Trek: The Next Generation. Kreatif forms: Borgbu, Borgby, Byborg. Borg is an unusual given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#6605 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Borg for boys.
Borg is a common surname in the Nordic countries as well as in Malta. Borg may refer to: 1  Åke åke, Borg swedish, swimmer twin brother Of. 2  Arne Alex, Borg maltese snooker. 3  Player Anders, Borg swedish.  politician This page or section lists people with the surname Borg. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
BORG Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname BORG. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. Using the Daitch-Mokotoff Soundex Code we can obtain some variants of scripture of the same surname. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database.
Recorded in the spellings of Berg, Borg, Borge, Burg, and Burgh, this interesting surname is widespread throughout Europe. It is topographical from residence by a prehistoric hill fort or fortified settlement. The derivation is from the pre 7th century Scandanavian (Viking) and Olde English beorg, and the Olde High German burg. There are a number of placenames in England with the name. These include Burgh in Suffolk, recorded as Burc in the Domesday Book of 1086, and Burgh in Lincolnshire, which is recorded as both as Burg and Burch in the 1086 Domesday Book, the first gazetter in the world.