Usually, mugwort refers to a specific plant, Artemisia vulgaris, which is known by a variety of other common names such as common wormwood, sailor's tobacco, felon herb, chrysanthemum weed, traveler's plant, and St. John's Plant. When mugwort is harvested, it is typically cured by drying, so that it can be used in the winter. The plant can also be used to make a tincture, although concentrated mugwort is potentially more dangerous than the plain plant, as it focuses the toxin.
Mugwort is a common name for several species of aromatic plants in the genus Artemisia. In Europe, mugwort most often refers to the species Artemisia vulgaris, or common mugwort. While other species are sometimes referred to by more specific common names, they may be called simply mugwart in many contexts. Mugwort oil contains thujone, which is toxic in large amounts or under prolonged intake. Thujone is also present in Thuja plicata (western red cedar), from which the name is derived. Mugwort herb contains a very small percentage of oil, so is generally considered safe to use.
Artemisia vulgaris (mugwort or common wormwood) is one of several species in the genus Artemisia commonly known as mugwort, although Artemisia vulgaris is the species most often called mugwort. 
Mugwort abounds on hedgebanks and waysides in most parts of England. It is a tall-growing plant, the stems, which are angular and often of a purplish hue, frequently rising 3 feet or more in height. 
Mugwort can be used as a sacred smoking or smudging herb for protection or divination. It is safe to smoke (as safe as smoking anything is) by itself, mixed with tobacco, or other smokeables in a ritual context and is said to enhance astral projection, lucid dreaming and other altered states of consciousness. Artemisia vulgaris. Other names for Mugwort Cronewort, Common wormwood, wild wormwood, Felon herb, St. John's Plant, Chrysanthemum weed, sailor's tobacco, moxa, Artemis Herb, Naughty Man, Old man, Old Uncle Henry, Muggons. Mugwort is occasionally confused with Wormwood Artemisia absinthium.
Mugwort is a plant that grows in Asia, North America, and Northern Europe. The plant parts that grow above the ground and the root are used to make medicine. People take mugwort root as a “tonic” and to boost energy. People take the rest of the plant for stomach and intestinal conditions including colic, diarrhea, constipation, cramps, weak digestion, worm infestations, and persistent vomiting. Mugwort is also used to stimulate gastric juice and bile secretion. It is also used as a liver tonic; to promote circulation; and as a sedative. Other uses include treatment of hysteria, epilepsy, and convulsions in children. Not enough is known about the safety of taking mugwort if you are breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Allergies: Mugwort may cause an allergic reaction in individuals who are allergic to the Asteraceae/Compositae plant family.
A mugwort leaf with the pointed leaves characteristic of a mature plant. The mugwort plant contains essential oils (such as cineole, or wormwood oil, and thujone), flavonoids, triterpenes, and coumarin derivatives. It was also used as an anthelminthic, so it is sometimes confused with wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Mugwort oil contains thujone, which is toxic in large amounts or under prolonged intake. Thujone is also present in Thuja plicata (western red cedar), from which the name is derived. Mugwort herb contains a very small percentage of oil, so is generally considered safe to use.
How to Use: Mugwort. Sometimes overlooked for more flashy herbs in this current day, mugwort is still a favorite of wise women. Mugwort has an affinity for the female reproductive system and is used as a uterine stimulant that can bring on delayed menstruation and help restore a woman's natural monthly cycle. 1. 