Purple loosestrife is a wetland plant from Europe and Asia. It was introduced into the east coast of North America in the 1800s. First spreading along roads, canals, and drainage ditches, then later distributed as an ornamental, this exotic plant is in 40 states and all Canadian border provinces.
Purple loosestrife invades marshes and lakeshores, replacing cattails and other wetland plants. The plant can form dense, impenetrable stands which are unsuitable as cover, food, or nesting sites for a wide range of native wetland animals including ducks, geese, rails, bitterns, muskrats, frogs, toads, and turtles.
Related Pages. Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) is an invasive perennial plant that is spreading rapidly in North American wetlands, shorelines, and roadside ditches. Thick stands of purple loosestrife crowd out native plants and reduce food, shelter, and nesting sites for wildlife, birds, turtles, and frogs.
Lythrum salicaria. Purple loosestrife is a wetland plant native to Europe and Asia that was brought to North America the early 19 th century. This highly invasive plant was likely introduced when its seeds were included in soil used as ballast in European sailing ships and discarded in North America.
Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) is an invasive non-native plant from Europe and Asia that was introduced into North America almost 200 years ago. The largest occurrences of this species are found in wetlands in the northeastern U.S., including all counties in Connecticut.
Identification: Purple loosestrife is an upright, perennial plant. It may have up to 50 stems emerging from its base, and its leaves are elongated, have smooth edges, and are fuzzy on their surface. Each plant may have numerous flower spikes made up of many flowers.
Purple loosestrife (Lythrum salicaria) is a herbaceous perennial that may grow up to 10 feet tall and 4 feet wide. Plants can reach maturity in 3 to 5 years, producing as many as 50 stems per plant. Leaf arrangement is opposite, alternative or in whorls of three.