Lentigo maligna is a pre-malignant melanocytic neoplasm, which originates on chronically sun-exposed skin, particularly the head and neck. Its progression leads to lentigo maligna melanoma, one of the four common subtypes of malignant melanoma. Lentigo maligna is a melanocytic neoplasm, often regarded as 'melanoma in situ,' which may progress to lentigo maligna melanoma.
Lentigo maligna: Lentigo maligna is a melanoma in situ that consists of malignant cells but does not show invasive growth.. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Lentigo maligna is available below. 
Lentigo maligna (also known as Lentiginous melanoma on sun-damaged skin) is a melanoma in situ that consists of malignant cells but does not show invasive growth. Lentigo maligna is not the same as lentigo maligna melanoma, and should be discussed separately. It typically progresses very slowly and can remain in a non-invasive form for years. It is normally found in the elderly (peak incidence in the 9th decade), on skin areas with high levels of sun exposure like the face and forearms. Some authors do not consider lentigo maligna to be a melanoma.
Introduction. Lentigo maligna is a specific type of melanoma in situ that occurs around hair follicles on the sun-damaged skin of the head and neck. Lentigo maligna melanoma is diagnosed when the melanoma cells have invaded into the dermis. It is the second most common form of melanoma. This chapter is set out as follows:
Lentigo maligna (LM) is a subtype of melanoma in situ, and it has a slight female preponderance. Lentigo maligna melanoma (LMM) is one of the four main subtypes of invasive melanoma and represents 5-15% of cases. The other types are superficial spreading (70%), nodular (10-15%), and acral lentiginous melanoma (5%). 
Abstract. Lentigo maligna is a melanocytic neoplasm, often regarded as 'melanoma in situ,' which may progress to lentigo maligna melanoma. Lentigo maligna clinically presents as a pigmented, asymmetric macule that originates on the head and neck and spreads slowly
Lentigo maligna melanoma: One of the four clinical types of malignant melanoma and the slowest growing type. Lentigo maligna melanoma typically begins as a patch of mottled pigmentation that is dark brown, tan, or black on sun-exposed skin, such as on the face. 
1 Lentigo maligna: Lentigo maligna is a melanoma in situ that consists of malignant cells but does not show invasive growth.. 2  Lentigo maligna: (LMM) makes up approximately 10% of all melanomas. 3  This type usually occurs in elderly people with the median age of 70. 
lentigo malig´na (malignant lentigo) see lentigo maligna melanoma. senile lentigo (lentigo seni´lis,) (solar lentigo) a small smooth round brownish patch appearing on the face, neck, or back of the hands of many older people, caused by an increase in pigment; these are entirely harmless. 
Lentigo maligna melanoma is a melanoma that has evolved from a lentigo maligna. They are usually found on chronically sun damaged skin such as the face and the forearms of the elderly. The nomenclature is very confusing to both patients and physicians alike. Lentigo maligna is the non-invasive skin growth that some pathologists consider to be a melanoma-in-situ. A few pathologists do not consider lentigo maligna to be a melanoma at all, but a precursor to melanomas. Once a lentigo maligna becomes a lentigo maligna melanoma, it is treated as if it were an invasive melanoma.