Heartworm disease in cats is a bit different than in dogs. Heartworms in cats do not live as long (average lifespan is only two to three years) or grow as long, and fewer of them mature into adults. Worm burdens are much lower in cats, with the average being only one to three worms. 
Report Abuse. Yes, a cat can catch worms from a cat who is not even in the house anymore. Also, I was told by the vet that a lot of kittens have tape worm already in their systems, and it just takes a while to show up. He said ALL kittens need to be dewormed, as a matter of course. 
Exposure to the outdoors increases your cat's risk. Heartworm is a contagious parasite that can spread between cats, but only with the aid of mosquitoes that transmit the bug from host to host. While you can't get heartworm from your kitty, other cats or your dog can, and vice versa, so prevention is key. 
Roundworms are the most common of the parasitic worms found inside a cat (or dog) . Almost all cats become infected with them at some time in their lives, usually as kittens. Adult roundworms live in the cat's intestines. Most cats will not have signs of infection; however, cats with major roundworm infections commonly show vomiting, weight loss, dull hair, and a potbellied appearance.
The most common tapeworm in cats (and dogs) is spread by fleas. The tapeworms are not directly contagious. As long as no fleas infest the cats in the house, the tapeworms should not spread. The key to controlling the problem is to use a good flea preventative in all of the cats who aren’t pregnant. . . and possibly the one who is (more on this below).
Certain cat worms can be contagious to humans. Three of the most common types of contagious cat worms include roundworm, ringworm, and tapeworms. These types of worms are also easily transmitted between cats. Tapeworms are the easiest to transmit only because of where they actually come from. Tapeworms are transmitted to cats though fleas. Much like worms in humans, worms in cats can be harmful if left untreated. Some of the most common types of worms cause symptoms that could potentially be fatal. The most common types of cat worms include ringworm, which live in dead skin, hookworms, tapeworms, roundworms, and whipworms.
There are many different parasites that cats can come in contact with and contract disease from. Internal parasites are those that inhabit the intestine and internal organs of the body. These are mostly the worm-type parasites: Roundworms, Hookworms, Tapeworms, Heartworm, Stomach Worms, Eyeworms and Whipworms. Also note that roundworms, hookworms, tapeworms, and whipworms are all contagious to humans so if you suspect your cat of having such parasites take him/her to the vet immediately to rid your cat of the problem as fast as possible and to protect your family and other pets from infection. Check out the link below.