100 Celsius or 212 Fahrenheit at sea level. As you go higher, the temperature drops as less force is needed to counter act air pressure. At 5000 feet above sea level (1524 met … ers) the temperatures are 95 C and 203 F. I learned the answer to this in science this year, so don't worry, it is accurate: The higher above sea level/elevation you are, the colder the temperature becomes. The reas … on for this is because there are air molecules in the air bump closer together when you are lower above sea level-that creates warm weather.
The temperature of boiling water at sea level is 100 The temperature of boiling water at sea level is 211.149°F. 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Feeding Your Depression: Foods That can Help or Hurt Depression affects millions of people in America, and everyone is looking for an answer. I learned the answer to this in science this year, so don't worry, it is accurate: The higher above sea level/elevation you are, the colder the temperature becomes. The reas … on for this is because there are air molecules in the air bump closer together when you are lower above sea level-that creates warm weather.
Impacts of sea level rise on the Reef. Rising sea levels will be significant because much of the Great Barrier Reef coastline is low-lying. Predictions of a future increase in sea levels are highly variable and range from 0.68m across the Great Barrier Reef Region to a global increase of up to 0.9m by 2100. Changes in sea levels from temperature increases are time-dependent and uncertain, because they are partly linked to the collapse of the Earth’s great ice shelves. Since 1959, records of variations in sea levels for Townsville, in north Queensland, show an average increase of 1.2mm per year.
The higher above sea level/elevation you are, the colder the temperature becomes. The reason for this is because there are air molecules in the air bump closer together when you are lower above sea level-that creates warm weather. I learned the answer to this in science this year, so don't worry, it is accurate: The higher above sea level/elevation you are, the colder the temperature becomes. The reas … 
per year. Sea level can rise by two different mechanisms with respect to climate change. First, as the oceans warm due to an increasing global temperature, seawater expands—taking up more space in the ocean basin and causing a rise in water level. A warming climate can cause seawater to expand and ice over land to melt, both of which can cause a rise in sea level. Storm surge on a Louisiana highway shows the effects of rising sea levels. Many people are interested in climate change and how a changing climate will affect the ocean. With the majority of Americans living in coastal states, rising water levels can have potentially large impacts. Scientists have determined that global sea level has been steadily rising since 1900 at a rate of at least
MSL is a type of vertical datum – a standardised geodetic reference point – that is used, for example, as a chart datum in cartography and marine navigation, or, in aviation, as the standard sea level at which atmospheric pressure is measured in order to calibrate altitude and, consequently, aircraft flight levels. Precise determination of a mean sea level is a difficult problem because of the many factors that affect sea level. Sea level varies quite a lot on several scales of time and distance.
For at least the last 100 years, sea level has been rising at an average rate of about 1.8 mm (0.1 in) per year. Most of this rise can be attributed to the increase in temperature of the sea and the resulting slight thermal expansion of the upper 500 metres (1,640 feet) of sea water. Precise determination of a mean sea level is a difficult problem because of the many factors that affect sea level. Sea level varies quite a lot on several scales of time and distance.
The higher above sea level you go, (for example, the tops of mountains,) the more separated and spaced out the molecules become, which causes cold weather. This is the ACCURATE answer to how elevation affects temperature. I learned the answer to this in science this year, so don't worry, it is accurate: The higher above sea level/elevation you are, the colder the temperature becomes. The reas … on for this is because there are air molecules in the air bump closer together when you are lower above sea level-that creates warm weather.
Thermal Expansion and Sea Level Rise A demonstration or group activity directed at grade levels 5 – 9 Activity Summary: This activity provides an opportunity for students to investigate how thermal expansion of water affects sea level rise. • A rise in global sea level due to the warming caused by the greenhouse effect could probably be caused by only two effects: 1. thermal expansion of the water column (due to a decrease in water density caused by its warming); and 2. the addition of water volume due to the melting of glaciers and ice sheets.