Social Security (FICA) and Medicare Deduction A taxpayer may claim a deduction for the amount contributed in the taxable year to FICA or a Railroad Retirement Plan, or to a U.S. or Massachusetts Retirement fund up to $2,000. 1 Medicare premiums deducted from social security benefits or retirement payments are not an allowable deduction since the benefits are not included in gross income. 2  Nonresidents and part-year residents may claim this deduction only if it is directly related to taxable income reported on Form 1-NR/PY.
Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax /ˈfaɪkə/ is a United States federal payroll (or employment) tax imposed on both employees and employers to fund Social Security and Medicare —federal programs that provide benefits for retirees, the disabled, and children of deceased workers. For 2014, the employee's share of the Social Security portion of the FICA tax is 6.2% of gross compensation up to a limit of $117,000 of gross compensation (resulting in a maximum Social Security tax of $7,254).
1 As a small-business owner, you are required to pay your portion of FICA tax at the mandated rates. 2  As of the time of publication, you pay 6.2 percent of taxable wages up to $110,100 for Social Security tax, and 1.45 percent of all taxable wages for Medicare tax. Traditional 401k plans are subject to FICA withholding. Section 125 plans, also called cafeteria plans, are not subject to Medicare and Social Security taxes. Pretax deductions lower the amount of wages subject to taxation, also called taxable wages.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities states that three-quarters of taxpayers pay more in payroll taxes than they do in income taxes. The FICA tax is considered a regressive tax on income with no standard deduction or personal exemption deduction. It is imposed on only the first $113,700 of gross wages in 2013 and $117,000 in 2014. The tax is not imposed on investment income such as interest and dividends. For 2014, the employee's share of the Social Security portion of the FICA tax is 6.2% of gross compensation up to a limit of $117,000 of gross compensation (resulting in a maximum Social Security tax of $7,254).
Your employer takes pretax deductions out of your gross wages before applying taxes, which generally include federal and state income tax and Federal Insurance Contributions Act taxes (which fund Social Security and Medicare). FICA Application and Exclusions. FICA taxes include Social Security and Medicare taxes, which do not apply to pretax commuter benefits and most benefits offered under a Section 125 plan.
Social Security Portion Limits. The Social Security portion of FICA taxes applies to only a certain amount of your income each year. As a result, there's a maximum amount you'll have to pay. For example, in 2012, the Social Security tax applied to $110,100 of earned income. The Social Security tax and the Medicare tax, both authorized by Federal Insurance Contributions Act, apply to your earned income. Technically, you can't ever deduct your FICA taxes. But you might be able to reduce your income taxes if you're self-employed or if too much was withheld.
FICA tax is also known as the Social Security tax. Specifically, this deduction is allowed for the following: 1  taxes paid to the U.S. under the provisions of the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), Social Security; 2  taxes paid to the U.S. under the provisions of the Federal Railroad Retirement Act, Tier I and II; 1 Medicare premiums deducted from social security benefits or retirement payments are not an allowable deduction since the benefits are not included in gross income. 2  Nonresidents and part-year residents may claim this deduction only if it is directly related to taxable income reported on Form 1-NR/PY.
The standard deduction is a dollar amount that reduces the amount of income on which you are taxed. In general, the standard deduction is adjusted each year for inflation and varies according to your filing status, whether you are 65 or older and/or blind, and whether another taxpayer can claim you as a dependent. Your standard deduction consists of the sum of the basic standard deduction and any additional standard deductions for age and/or blindness. You are allowed an additional deduction if you are age 65 or older at the end of the tax year. You are considered to be 65 on the day before your 65th birthday.
Medicare premiums deducted from social security benefits or retirement payments are not an allowable deduction since the benefits are not included in gross income. Self-employed individuals may deduct the employment tax paid during the taxable year up to a maximum of $2,000. 1 Medicare premiums deducted from social security benefits or retirement payments are not an allowable deduction since the benefits are not included in gross income. 2  Nonresidents and part-year residents may claim this deduction only if it is directly related to taxable income reported on Form 1-NR/PY.