, v102 p91-100 Sep 1994. Reviews two sets of play theories, classical and modern, noting that the reason and purpose for play are explained by classical theories; the role of play in child development, determined by modern theories. States that process of play has dual functions of personal expression and social adaptation. 
Freud's psychoanalytic theory of play was outlined in Beyond the Pleasure Principle (1920). In this work, he explicitly conceptualized play as the repetition compulsion whereby a child wishes to constantly repeat or re-enact an experience. 
The psychoanalytic theory of play is not able to supply a unitary explanation for the phenomenon called play, by which all games and all manifestations arising from them can be interpreted. [This is a summary or excerpt from the full text of the book or article. 
Also: a system of psychological theory associated with this method. Psychoanalytic theory is the theory of personality organization and the dynamics of personality development that guides psychoanalysis, a clinical method for treating psychopathology (Makworo, 2013). His examination of the genetic and then the developmental aspects gave the psychoanalytic theory its characteristics. Starting with his publication of The Interpretation of Dreams in 1899, his theories began to gain prominence.
It began, of course, with Freud. Psychoanalysis refers both to a theory of how the mind works and a treatment modality. In recent years, both have yielded to more mainstream, research-driven approaches, but psychoanalysis is still a thriving field. 
Psychoanalysis is a set of psychological and psychotherapeutic theories and associated techniques, created by Austrian physician Sigmund Freud and stemming partly from the clinical work of Josef Breuer and others. Over time, psychoanalysis has been revised and developed in different directions. Some of Freud's colleagues and students, such as Alfred Adler and Carl Jung, went on to develop their own ideas independently. Freud insisted on retaining the term psychoanalysis for his school of thought, and Adler and Jung accepted this. The Neo-Freudians included Erich Fromm, Karen Horney, Harry Stack Sullivan.
Client-centered, psychoanalytic, and release and structure play therapy approaches have diverse philosophical viewpoints about the therapist's role, goals of therapy, and use of structuring in play therapy. In child-centered play theory, structuring is considered an important process early in play therapy. In psychoanalytic play therapy the therapist encourages the development of a transference relationship where the child projects early experiences, feelings, and thoughts onto the psychoanalyst.
Psychoanalytic Play Therapy. Psychoanalytic play therapy is based on the assumption, through unconstrained play, children will either consciously or unconsciously display troubles or developmental shortcomings that are otherwise difficult to identify. Properly conducted psychoanalytic play therapy enables the child to feel accurately understood, helping parents and teachers to not only be aware of the child’s emotional issues, but also giving them effective, positive means to deal with problem behaviors.
52 pages on this wiki. “Psychoanalysis is a theory, a technique, an organization, a language, an ethos, an ethic, a climate” (Gellner 5). Sigmund Freud founded psychoanalytic theory in the 1920’s (Elliott). The basis for psychoanalytic theory is the unconscious mind. “Freud believed that people could be cured by making conscious their unconscious thoughts and motivations, thus gaining insight” (McLeod 1).