The best way to fade the appearance and discoloration of acne scars is through using a cream. While silicone is used to help smooth out the skin, a different approach is needed to get rid of dark spots and discolorations that are the result of acne scars. Fortunately, there are now finally some effective techniques that can be used to smooth out and fade acne scars that can be used the comfort of home. When these home-based therapies fail, there are a variety of new medical technologies to consider to get rid
No more hopelessly staring at your acne scars in the mirror—this lasting treatment seriously works. We spoke with a few of the pros who gave us the who, what, when, where, and whys on everything you need to know about this game-changing acne treatment, below. Related: 17 Products That Will Clear Up Your Skin—Fast. Until recently, time-consuming (and expensive) laser treatments and temporary dermal fillers were the only solutions to treating the issue. So when we learned about, a brand-new permanent filler called Bellafill from our friends over at Byrdie, we immediately freaked out.
Not to be confused with post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, which can fade with the proper and diligent use of sunscreen, retinols, and over-the-counter brighteners, acne scars are permanent indentations due to damage of collagen in your skin. “While it can work on new scars, the treatment is most successful on scars that have been there the longest. If you have any cuts, active cysts or a breakout, the procedure should be postponed until it clears up,” says Dr. Goldfaden.
* Apply Aloe vera gel or juice: Aloe vera gel or juice helps get rid of acne scars and makes your facial skin healthier. There are many brands of aloe vera gel or juice available on the market today. Read product reviews of each brand on the Internet to find out which one is the best. * Rose water and sandalwood: Make a paste of rose water and sandalwood and gently apply it on your acne scars. Leave the paste on your skin overnight then wash it with cold water the next morning.
Bellafill ® is approved for the correction of facial wrinkles known as nasolabial folds, or smile lines, and the correction of moderate to severe, atrophic, distensible facial acne scars on the cheek in patients over the age of 21 years. 
Apply lavender oil on your acne scars and gently massage your skin. The oil has regenerative properties that will make your skin look cleaner, fresher and younger. * Rose water and sandalwood: Make a paste of rose water and sandalwood and gently apply it on your acne scars. Leave the paste on your skin overnight then wash it with cold water the next morning.
Laser and Filler Treatments. If your acne scars don't fade away on their own, it may be time to consider booking an appointment with your dermatologist. In one to three sessions, laser skin resurfacing using fractionated laser technology can even out the skin surface and increase the formation of new collagen. The main key to seeing acne scars fade is patience. A few weeks after you break out and scar, new blood vessels move into the injured area to give nourishment to the skin, which is why most early scars look pink, Alster says. Months later, collagen starts to form, filling in the injured section of ski
All scars are permanent but there are things you can do to decrease the severity. Vitamin E, lavendar oil and time are all things that lessen the appearance of scars. For future reference, lavender and tea tree oils are much more effective in treating acne than picking and popping. * Rose water and sandalwood: Make a paste of rose water and sandalwood and gently apply it on your acne scars. Leave the paste on your skin overnight then wash it with cold water the next morning.
Patience. The main key to seeing acne scars fade is patience. A few weeks after you break out and scar, new blood vessels move into the injured area to give nourishment to the skin, which is why most early scars look pink, Alster says. Months later, collagen starts to form, filling in the injured section of skin