Hatching can take place between day 18-21. Once chicks have hatched move to the brooder. The serama is a relatiely good little layer considering its body shape and small size, my females at home lay usually every day or every other day when in full lay. As the body size of the serama varies vastly from A to C class weights as does the egg size. A normal bantam hen egg seen pictured next to a true bantam egg and the serama egg pictured far right with a UK one penny piece for size comparison.
This is my second batch of serama eggs and we are now going into day 20. I thought they were suppose to hatch between 18 and 19 days, the first hatch didnt hatch until day 21 or 22. Anyone else notice this or am i just super impatient. I have a cochin on mixed eggs as well and hers are hatching early, tomorrow is day 21 for those. Serama eggs aren't doing anything, no rocking anymore altho they were yesterday and no chirps or peeps. I candled them a few days ago and everything looked great so i dont get it. Seramas, Cochins, EE's, 1 Japanese hen, few frizzles & Too many roosters and a ton of babies cruising the yard.
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings.
As for the incubator and Serama eggs, I hatch usually about 30-35% of shipped Serama eggs-and almost 100% of homegrown Serama eggs. It has been my experience that viability isn't dictated by method i.e. the incubator vs. broody, I believe it is the shipped eggs as compared to non-shipped. I have hatched eggs from the same serama layers at a rate of about 90 - 100 percent, so I know the eggs are fertile, no eggs broken, so that leads me to believe shipping or buying of shipped serama eggs is a lousy proposition no matter how you slice it.
Incubation period for SERAMA eggs is 19 days at 99.9 degrees F. Traditional SERAMA are not color bred, nor do they breed true to any one color, It is not uncommon to hatch as many different colored chicks as there are eggs that hatch. SERAMA do not breed true to size. 
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings.
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day. 
That one only lived three days. I have hatched eggs from the same serama layers at a rate of about 90 - 100 percent, so I know the eggs are fertile, no eggs broken, so that leads me to believe shipping or buying of shipped serama eggs is a lousy proposition no matter how you slice it.
With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful