The ASVAB was first introduced in 1968 and was adopted by all branches of the military in 1976. It underwent a major revision in 2002. In 2004, the test's percentile rank scoring system was renormalized, to ensure that a score of 50% really did represent doing better than exactly 50% of the test takers. In addition to the ASVAB's AFQT, each branch has military occupational specialty, or MOS, scores. Combinations of scores from the nine tests are used to determine qualification for a MOS.
Air Force. ASVAB Score-Air Force recruits must score at least 36 points the 99-point ASVAB (Note: The Overall ASVAB Score is known as the  AFQT Score , or Armed Forces Qualification Test Score). Exceptions are made, however, for a handful of high school graduates who can score as low as 31. Navy. ASVAB Score-Navy recruits must score at least 35 on the AFQT. The Navy raised this requirement from 31 in 2003 for active duty accessions. Reserve enlistment programs still only require a score of 31. Education-Like the Air Force, the Navy accepts very, very few recruits who don't have a high school diploma
ASVAB. The Armed Services Vocational Aptitude Battery (ASVAB) is a multiple choice test, administered by the United States Military Entrance Processing Command (MEPS), used to determine qualification for enlistment in the United States Armed Forces. Required ASVAB entrance scores by service: AFQT required minimum scores as of 2009 (unless otherwise noted) are as follows: GED holders who earn 15 college credits 100 level or greater are considered equivalent with those holding high school diplomas. This would result in only needing the minimum score to enlist.
Army. ASVAB Score-The Army requires a minimum AFQT Score of 31 to qualify for enlistment. However, in recent months, the Army has been approving more and more waivers for those with scores as low as 26 (Category IVA). Navy. ASVAB Score-Navy recruits must score at least 35 on the AFQT. The Navy raised this requirement from 31 in 2003 for active duty accessions. Reserve enlistment programs still only require a score of 31. Education-Like the Air Force, the Navy accepts very, very few recruits who don't have a high school diploma
Air Force. The United States Air Force accepts high school graduates. The minimum ASVAB score is 36. In actual practice, though, more than 70% of those accepted for enlistment score a 50 or higher. Army. The United States Army accepts both high school graduates and GED holders. The minimum ASVAB score is 31. Certain enlistment bonuses require a score of 50 or higher
The AFQT standard (raw) score is computed with the formula 2VE+AR+MK. That standard score is then compared to a chart for the version of the ASVAB/AFCT you took to produce your true AFQT. The ASVAB/AFCT tests are made up of nine sections in the following order: 1  General Science (GS). 2  Arithmetic Reasoning (AR). 3  Word Knowledge (WK). ASVAB Test requirements for Navy ratings and programs are subject to change without notice. Check with your local Navy Recruiter for updates. ASVAB line score data current as of June 1, 2015 according to COMNAVCRUITCOMINST 1130.8J latest change, Change 8.
Jobs in the Navy are called Ratings. To find the rating you qualify for, the Navy looks at your ASVAB subtest scores-different subtests for different ratings. 
Your ASVAB scores determine what jobs you will qualify for in the military. Before you embarrass yourself though, you should know that a job in the Army and the Marine Corps is called an MOS - short for Military Occupational Specialty.. 
The minimum AFQT score required to qualify for enlistment varies across the different branches of service. Contact a military recruiter or visit one of the Service-specific websites listed below to find out more about the required minimum AFQT score. The Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT) is used by all of the Services to determine if an applicant is eligible for the military. Four of the ASVAB subtests are combined to form the AFQT. It measures general cognitive ability and is composed of verbal and mathematics subtests.