Image of a Sativa and Indica cannabis plant side-by-side (Sativa plant on the left, Indica plant in the middle, the mostly benign Ruderalis on the left): image via mmj-guide.com. You can see in the photos above Sativa plants tend to be significantly large while Indica plants are shorter and wider. Indica buds are most commonly smoked by medical marijuana patients in the late evening or even right before bed due to how sleepy and tired you become when high from an indica strain of marijuana, like Kush. Benefits of Indica : 1. Relieves body pain. 2.
This is because sativa is higher in the psychoactive ingredient (THC) in marijuana, while indica is generally higher in the “cannabinoid” (CBD) that relaxes muscles and eases pain, with minimum psychoactive effect in purer indica strains. Weed, indeed, is not just weed. 
Hybrid marijuana strains are much more common these days than pure indicas or sativas. As more cannabis breeders cross different strains in an effort to combine and better favorable genetics, many wonderful hybrids have been introduced to the world. These strains combine their parents’ genetics and often have a wonderful balance of both indica and sativa characteristics. Cannabis Indica plants get their genetics from the original landrace strains of India, Bangladesh, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, where they were used primarily for the production of hashish.
Indica and sativa are the two main types of cannabis. Cannabis is one of the oldest crops known to mankind, with records of its cultivation dating back thousands of years. Today, it is widely accepted that marijuana has two different species: Cannabis indica and Cannabis sativa. 
Sativa and Indica are the two major types of cannabis plants which can mix together to create hybrid strains. Each strain has its own range of effects on the body and mind resulting in a wide range of medicinal benefits. Indica plants typically grow short and wide, compared to Sativa plants which grow tall and thin. Indica buds are most commonly smoked by medical marijuana patients in the late evening or even right before bed due to how sleepy and tired you become when high from an indica strain of marijuana, like Kush. Benefits of Indica : 1. Relieves body pain. 2.
types of marijuana. There are many types or strains of marijuana, however they basically fit into two categories; Indica and Sativa. Breeders will often cross strains to change the growing or properties of the original. As a rule of thumb, generally Indicas tend to be shorter, stockier plants with smaller, denser and smellier buds. Choosing types of marijuana for a garden will depend on many factors, not least what you expect of the end product. Marijuana strains are often a cross of Sativa and Indica to give properties of each i.e. to make certain Sativa smaller and more potent, or an Indica larger and with bigger buds.
Cannabis strains are either pure or hybrid varieties of Cannabis, typically of C. sativa and C. indica. Varieties are developed to intensify specific characteristics of the plant, or to differentiate the strain for the purposes of marketing it more effectively as a drug. Variety names are typically chosen by their growers, and often reflect properties of the plant such as taste, color, smell, or the origin of the variety. Cannabis strains commonly refer to those varieties with recreational and medicinal use