Best Answer: a few weeks, earliest would be 4. a mother may abandon them if you disturb her or her babies. thats surprising that the other bunnies survived when you held them at 4 days old. also, be very careful, even at 8 weeks old bunnies are very delicate and have fragile spines. so careful when you hold them. hold them close to your chest with both hands. EDIT-no it's not a myth. my family had a farm with rabbits, and it has happened.... When I use to breed I would hold the babies the same day that they were born to make sure they were all right and with no deformities etc. It all depends on if the doe will let you.
Also, when our rabbit had babies in the past, we held them at 4 days old, and they turned out okay. Update: hmmm... I read that it was a myth that a mother rabbit will abandon her young... Just that you should pet her before you hold the babies so they don't get scared. When I use to breed I would hold the babies the same day that they were born to make sure they were all right and with no deformities etc. It all depends on if the doe will let you.
Baby rabbits CAN be touched and picked up, make sure your hands are  clean and free of the scent of perfumes, soaps and lotions. Baby  bunnies should not be held too much until they are about 4 weeks  old, but you can hold them and begin socializing them at 2 weeks. Male rabbits can be neutered as soon as the testicles descend. This can happen between 2 and a half, to 5 months, depending on your rabbit. You should wait for them to descend … because the surgery should be through the scrotum, not the abdomen: it's less traumatic that way.
1 2-3 weeks: 7-13 cc each feeding. 2  Domestic baby rabbit eyes open at about 10 days of age. 3  You can start introducing them to hay, alfalfa pellets, and water. 4  Although they may begin to eat solids, this does not mean that they should be or are ready to be weaned. 5  3-6 weeks: 13-15 cc each feeding. 1 Flemish Giant rabbits are usually born about 3-4 oz, and by 8-9 weeks weigh 5 lbs. 2  From 8 weeks to 8 months, the rabbit can gain 0.5 to 0.75 lb/week and is not considered full grown until 14 months of age.
A single baby has a harder time keeping warm than one with siblings, so if you have a single baby it’s often a good idea to foster another kit from a different litter, if you can. After the kits are 10-12 days old they are pretty much out of danger of freezing. Baby rabbits grow very fast. I have a heat lamp in my barn so that I can look at the kits without chilling them. I place a clean sheet of newsprint on my worktable, turn on the light and take the kits from the nest. I routinely handle my babies just after they are born and have never had a mom reject her kits. Domestic rabbits are quite use to human scents and being around humans. Even though some of them will be annoyed with you, they will still take care of their babies.
6. The baby rabbits will start to eat pellets at around 3 weeks of age, and will be weaned at 6-8 weeks of age. Never feed baby rabbits greens until they are at least six months old. Make sure you have a nest box for the babies to be born in. If you let the mom have her babies on the cage floor they will die. You should stuff the nest box with grass hay or timothy hay and shavings on the bottom of the box. Don't fill it too high or have any holes in the box, or the babies may escape.
1 Domestic baby rabbit eyes open at about 10 days of age. 2  You can start introducing them to hay, alfalfa pellets, and water. 3  Although they may begin to eat solids, this does not mean that they should be or are ready to be weaned. 4  3-6 weeks: 13-15 cc each feeding. 1 Flemish Giant rabbits are usually born about 3-4 oz, and by 8-9 weeks weigh 5 lbs. 2  From 8 weeks to 8 months, the rabbit can gain 0.5 to 0.75 lb/week and is not considered full grown until 14 months of age.
To me, the best part of rabbit-breeding is the opportunity to hold newborn baby bunnies. I love snuggling rabbits of all ages, but there's nothing like the experience of cradling a mouse-sized kit in my own palm. Many friends, buyers and prospective breeders have asked me when a baby rabbit is old enough to hold. 
After waiting a whole 31 days, your doe pulls fur and kindles. You have babies! It is so exciting and you can’t wait to see how many there are, but you dare not touch the babies because the mom will reject her kits. Wrong! I routinely handle my babies just after they are born and have never had a mom reject her kits. Domestic rabbits are quite use to human scents and being around humans. Even though some of them will be annoyed with you, they will still take care of their babies.