Applications : EIB installation consists of sensors and actuators. The E.I.B concept allows intergration of Building Management Systems (B.M.S.) over one common system. Lighting, blinds, heating and ventilation can be automatically controlled through the E.I.B cable. This dramatically reduces the cabling required in a modern building. To meet European standards this cable is LSHF throughout. They can be installed over, in, or below the plaster,in pipes and pipe ducts, in dry, moist, and wet areas, as well as outside, provided they are protected against direct exposure to the sun.
The armoured (SWA) KNX cable uses the substantial duct grade cable as a base with the addition of 0.9mm solid galvanised steel wires cased in a heavy waterproof PE jacket-making it one of the toughest cables around. For internal installations where the cable may be seen, the white KNX cable is ideal. The cable is exactly the same in construction as the standard green 2 pair cable but has a white LSHF sheath with yellow printing. It has been tested and certified as being suitable for use in KNX systems and bears the KNX logo. Also offered is a duct grade, armoured and white version. The duct grade KNX cable features a tough polyethylene (PE) waterproof jacket over the standard LSHF inner sheath.
List of KNX TP1 certified and/or recognised bus cables-Issue 0813a 1 / 3 DULY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED KNX TP1 CABLE The bus cable of the following KNX-members or-licensees has successfully passed the Certification Procedure and can therefore be labeled with the KNX or EIB-mark. CH-4132 Muttenz. Mr Matthias Sinner. DULY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED KNX TP1 CABLE. The bus cable of the following KNX-members or-licensees has successfully passed the.
EIB-BUS DRAKA| ICS www.prysmiangroup.com EIBBUS_eVersion 1.0 | 26.02.2008Page 1 of 2 EIB Bus cablesSymmetrical data cable for EIB – BUS SystemsApplication Bus cable for indoor installations in EIB (European Installation Bus) systems. The cable is suitable for installation in ducts, onrisers and under data floors. 
See full range below. This European installation BUS fieldbus cable for fixed application has a Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) sheath. It is particularly suitable for use in EIB/KONNEX TM applications and has a building layout in quad (2 pairs) in order to guarantee reduced external dimensions. The KNX cable works on the standardised OSI network communications protocol, succeeding EHS, BATIBUS and EIB.
The KNX cable from FS Cables (also known as TP1 cable) features two twisted pairs of solid conductor with a foil screen and tinned copper drain wire in a green LSHF jacket. It has been tested and certified as being suitable for use in KNX systems and bears the KNX logo. Also offered is a duct grade, armoured and white version. The duct grade KNX cable features a tough polyethylene (PE) waterproof jacket over the standard LSHF inner sheath.
Bus Cables. E.I.B Cable(European Installation Bus). Application: EIB installation consists of sensors and actuators. The E.I.B. concept allows intergration of Building Management Systems (B.M.S.) over one common system. Lighting, blinds, heating and ventilation can be automatically controlled through the E.I.B cable.
When you are looking to buy KNX cable, look for the KNX logo. All KNX certified equipment has been tested and certified to meet this high standard and only equipment meeting this can carry the logo. This ensures the quality, reliability and guaranteed compatibility of all KNX devices and equipment. It has been tested and certified as being suitable for use in KNX systems and bears the KNX logo. Also offered is a duct grade, armoured and white version. The duct grade KNX cable features a tough polyethylene (PE) waterproof jacket over the standard LSHF inner sheath.
KNX is a standardized (EN 50090, ISO/IEC 14543), OSI-based network communications protocol for intelligent buildings. KNX is the successor to, and convergence of, three previous standards: the European Home Systems Protocol (EHS), BatiBUS, and the European Installation Bus (EIB or Instabus). The KNX standard is administered by the KNX Association. The standard is based on the communication stack of EIB but enlarged with the physical layers, configuration modes and application experience of BatiBUS and EHS. KNX defines several physical communication media: 1  Twisted pair wiring (inherited from the BatiBUS and EIB Instabus standards).