Lightning is the result of the build up of electrostatic charge in clouds. Positive and negative charges separate, negative usually towards the bottom of the cloud, while positive goes to the top. After a certain amount of time, the negative charge leaps, connecting with either another cloud or even the ground. When these negative and positive charges connect, a return stroke occurs. The result is a bright, flickering flash of light, which is usually followed by a rumble of thunder. Lightning is a form of electricity. Benjamin Franklin discovered this in his well-known key and kite experiment.
As it gets closer, the negative charge begins to attract positive charges from the object. When these negative and positive charges connect, a return stroke occurs. The result is a bright, flickering flash of light, which is usually followed by a rumble of thunder. Lightning is a form of electricity. Benjamin Franklin discovered this in his well-known key and kite experiment.
Abstract. An overview of the physics of cloud-to-ground lightning is given, including its initiation, propagation, and attachment to ground. New observations of negative-leader stepping and its attachment to ground are compared to similar processes in long laboratory sparks. The mechanism and parameters of compact intracloud lightning discharges that are thought to be the most intense natural producers of HF-VHF (3–300 MHz) radiation on Earth are reviewed.
The Mechanics of a Lightning Strike. As the static charge buildup in a storm cloud increases, the electric field surrounding the cloud becomes stronger. Normally, the air surrounding a cloud would be a good enough insulator to prevent a discharge of electrons to Earth. Buildings, trees and even people can experience a buildup of static charge as electrons are repelled by the cloud's bottom. With the cloud polarized into opposites and with a positive charge induced upon Earth's surface, the stage is set for Act 2 in the drama of a lightning strike.
Lightning is caused by the build up of electrostatic charge in clouds. One region within the cloud builds up a positive charge and the other a negative charge. The process is not completely understood as to why, but the bottom of the cloud usually ends up being negatively charged and the top positively charged. If the build up (separation) of charge becomes great enough, the negative charges may leap to the positive side of another cloud, this is called sheet lightning or it may leap to the ground. The animation shows he creation of a ground strike of lightning. As the negative charges collect at the bottom of the cloud it forces the negative charges in the ground to be forced away from the surface. This leaves the ground positive. A streamer of negative charges is repelled by the bottom of the cloud and attracted by the ground. As this streamer of negative charges approaches the ground, a streamer of positive charges is repelled by the ground and attracted to the negative streamer
Warm updrafts sweep positive charges aloft, leaving the bottom of the cloud negatively charged. The attraction between the ground and the negative charges in the bottom of the cloud creates the lightning stroke, a brief current of negative charge that travels from cloud to ground. 
Models for the charge buildup which leads to lightning discharges suggest a buildup of a strong negative charge layer near the bottom of the cloud and the formation of a positive ground shadow. When the buildup is large enough to produce ionization of the air, a lightning discharge is initiated. This is called the positive dipole structure for the charge buildup. More recent studies indicate a tripolar structure.
The ability of a storm cloud's electric fields to transform air into a conductor makes charge transfer (in the form of a lightning bolt) from the cloud to the ground (or even to other clouds) possible. A lightning bolt begins with the development of a step leader. Excess electrons on the bottom of the cloud begin a journey through the conducting air to the ground at speeds up to 60 miles per second. These electrons follow zigzag paths towards the ground, branching at various locations. Buildings, trees and even people can experience a buildup of static charge as electrons are repelled by the cloud's bottom. With the cloud polarized into opposites and with a positive charge induced upon Earth's surface, the stage is set for Act 2 in the drama of a lightning strike.
Finally, the two leaders connect and create a channel from the cloud to the ground. The charges in the leaders equalize each other at rapid speeds heating the air and creating the light we see as the lightning flash (Lightning) . The actual flash of lightning actually is the return stroke up to the cloud. The flash we see goes from ground to cloud. This is because a connection is established between the negative charges in the cloud and the positive charges on the ground. Once the connection is established, electrons flow a lot faster. Lightning can be generated from inside one cloud, cloud to cloud, or cloud to ground. The most dangerous of these is the cloud to ground lightning. Figure 1 shown below is a picture of cloud to ground lightning. This is the most common lightning flash we see (Balasubramaniam).