Guitars. I’ve seen Prince play a Les Paul, Floyd Rose-equipped Strat, Taylor acoustics, Ibanez George Benson, Teles, and custom-built guitars. His main axe until the Purple Rain era, and starting again in the 2000s, is a Blonde Tele copy made by HS Anderson/Hohner. 
One of Prince’s mainstay guitars that he has been using since the early 80’s is the Hohner MadCat Telecaster, a Japanese made Fender Telecaster copy. These were designed in the early 70’s and later H.S. Anderson sold the rights to Hohner in Germany. Production stayed in Japan but with the Hohner logo. Two copies of the Love Symbol guitar were built by one of Prince’s guitar techs, a white and a black one. These were mahogany and as such, not very durable, especially since Prince loves to throw his guitar up in the air and let it crash to the stage.
Volitan. Prince's Guitar Gear/Equipment. It's pretty appearant what GUITAR'S Prince likes (The clouds, the symbol guitar, the Hohner Tele, and his new baby Blue Strat) but what amps and effects does he use. It's obvious for distortion he uses a fuzz pedal but does anyone know the settings or even what kind?? Google turns up mostly nil.
Prince's guitar playing never seems to come across that well in his production / mixing but see him play that thing live and you can sure enough tell he is it-check out the guitar solo at the 2004 Hall of Fame all star performance of While my guitar gently weeps. His guitar work is the tease. Wow. Prince is a guitar juggernaut. His songwriting and arrangement experience gives him incredible insight into what the guitar should do in a particular song... and the man has soul for days! Very versatile and able to transfer his emotions to the listener through his guitar.
Answer: Whatever dang kind he wants to. He's Prince! Sorry...I couldn't resist. Prince has used a few variations of custom imprinted picks over his career. His older style were white picks imprinted with Love, God in a handwritten font. Later styles included the name Prince in a font as well as the glyph/symbol he went by for awhile. Various color picks have included white and pearl
Actually, designer and builder of Prince’s cloud and symbol guitars was Dave RUSAN, and one is actually in the Smithsonion Institute. I know because he has been my guitar tech for almost twenty years and is the best in Minny. Oh, and I also went to high school with Mr. Nelson. Two copies of the Love Symbol guitar were built by one of Prince’s guitar techs, a white and a black one. These were mahogany and as such, not very durable, especially since Prince loves to throw his guitar up in the air and let it crash to the stage.
Prince’s Telecaster. Every Prince fan knows that Prince’s favorite guitar is a telecaster. From the beginning of his career to his latest concerts, you can always see him play this flamed maple tele with maple neck and matching leopard print strap. In the 70’s, Prince (not being famous yet) bought a Hohner telecaster. There are rumors that he bought this guitar since the pickguard matched perfectly with leopard strap he already had. But I guess there were more reasons:
Prince's guitar playing is so unique because of the melody and texture in the notes he plays. He is not a technical freak, or a speed shredder, but like Coltrane, when you peel away at his music, the underlying notes are achingly gorgeous. He is part R&B funkster, part rock god, part swooning seducer. His guitar work is the tease. Wow. Prince is a guitar juggernaut. His songwriting and arrangement experience gives him incredible insight into what the guitar should do in a particular song... and the man has soul for days! Very versatile and able to transfer his emotions to the listener through his guitar.
These are the most recognizable guitars in Prince’s stable but he has also played a Les Paul Jr. covered with fake fur, a Lake Placid Blue Stratocaster, Dark Blue Telecaster with flowers, a George Benson autographed Ibanez archtop, and Auerswald Model C guitars equipped with sustain bows. Two copies of the Love Symbol guitar were built by one of Prince’s guitar techs, a white and a black one. These were mahogany and as such, not very durable, especially since Prince loves to throw his guitar up in the air and let it crash to the stage.