Go Back. If the air is gradually cooled while maintaining the moisture content constant, the relative humidity will rise until it reaches 100%. This temperature, at which the moisture content in the air will saturate the air, is called the dew point. Relative humidity is the amount of moisture in the air compared to what the air can hold at that temperature. When the air can't hold all the moisture, then it condenses as dew.
Example : Determine the wet-bulb and dewpoint temperature the given temperature is 40&deg;C, relative humidity is 50% and then actual station pressure is 3 millibars. 
If the temperature rises in conditions of constant pressure, then the dew point will remain constant but the relative humidity will drop. For this reason, a constant relative humidity (%) with different temperatures implies that when it's hotter, a higher fraction of the air is water vapor than when it's cooler. When the moisture content remains constant and temperature increases, relative humidity decreases. General aviation pilots use dew point data to calculate the likelihood of carburetor icing and fog, and to estimate the height of a cumuliform cloud base.
Step 2: Vapor Pressure. Relative humidity can be expressed as a ratio of the saturation vapor pressure at the dew point temperature to the saturation vapor pressure at the air temperature. This is expressed by the formula RH = 100*(e/e s). For example, a dew point temperature below freezing indicates very dry air. On the other hand, a dew point temperature of 70 degrees F would occur on a humid, muggy day. Below you will find the step by step process that will teach you how to calculate dew point.
Rearrange the equation to find e, the vapor pressure at dew point: e = (RH*e s)/100. Now the only unknown on the right side of the equation is e s. Calculate e s using the formula e s = 0.6108*e, where T is the air temperature in Celsius and the kilopascals (kPa) are the units for e s. Then plug RH and e s into the equation for e to find the vapor pressure at dew point in kPa. For example, a dew point temperature below freezing indicates very dry air. On the other hand, a dew point temperature of 70 degrees F would occur on a humid, muggy day. Below you will find the step by step process that will teach you how to calculate dew point.
and T is temperature (in Kelvin), and Td is dew point temperature (also in Kelvin). So, if you know the temperature, you can solve for Es, and substitute the equation for E into the expression for relative humidity and solve for Td (dew point). If you are interested in a simpler calculation that gives an approximation of dew point temperature if you know the observed temperature and relative humidity, the following formula was proposed in a 2005 article by Mark G. Lawrence in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society: Td = T - ((100 - RH)/5.
where Td is dew point temperature (in degrees Celsius), T is observed temperature (in degrees Celsius), and RH is relative humidity (in percent). Apparently this relationship is fairly accurate for relative humidity values above 50%. More details can be found in the article: If you are interested in a simpler calculation that gives an approximation of dew point temperature if you know the observed temperature and relative humidity, the following formula was proposed in a 2005 article by Mark G. Lawrence in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society: Td = T - ((100 - RH)/5.).
In simpler terms: the dew point, or frost point, is the temperature at which dew or frost will form should the air temperature fall sufficiently. Other things being equal, as the temperature falls, the relative humidity rises, reaching 100% at the dew point, at least at ground level. Dew point temperature is never greater than the air temperature, since the relative humidity cannot exceed 100%. When the moisture content remains constant and temperature increases, relative humidity decreases. General aviation pilots use dew point data to calculate the likelihood of carburetor icing and fog, and to estimate the height of a cumuliform cloud base.
Dew point is a measure of atmospheric moisture. It is the temperature to which air must be cooled to reach saturation (assuming air pressure and moisture content are constant). A higher dew point indicates more moisture present in the air. When the moisture content remains constant and temperature increases, relative humidity decreases. General aviation pilots use dew point data to calculate the likelihood of carburetor icing and fog, and to estimate the height of a cumuliform cloud base.