Cheese can be broadly categorized as acid or rennet cheese, and natural or process cheeses. Acid cheeses are made by adding acid to the milk to cause the proteins to coagulate. Fresh cheeses, such as cream cheese or queso fresco, are made by direct acidification. 
Specialty cheese is defined as a cheese of limited production, with particular attention paid to natural flavor and texture profiles. Specialty cheeses may be made from all types of milk (cow, sheep, goat) and may include flavorings, such as herbs, spices, fruits and nuts. Processed Cheeses. The term “processed” is used to describe cheese by-products made from a combination of natural cheese and added ingredients, such as stabilizers, emulsifiers, and flavor enhancers that are used to create a consistent and shelf-stable product aimed at mass market consumption.
From a food science perspective, it is difficult to define a food product that is 'natural' because the food has probably been processed and is no longer the product of the earth. That said, FDA has not developed a definition for use of the term natural or its derivatives. 
Natural Cheese. Natural refers to the cheesemaking process in which cheese is made directly from milk by coagulating or curdling milk, stirring and heating the curd, draining the whey and collecting or pressing the curd. Natural cheeses can be classified into various groups, such as: 1  Soft/fresh, unripened. 2  Soft, ripened.
Definition. Natural cheese is a term used to describe cheese that is made from milk to which salt, enzymes and flavorings can be added. It is the result of the fermentation of milk by adding starter culture. Cheese is one of mankind’s oldest foods and is a way of preserving the nutrients in milk in a delicious form. 1 Weight is the best method to measure cheese for recipes: 4 ounces of natural cheese equals 1 cup shredded cheese (1 ounce = 1/4 cup).
Processed cheese (also known as prepared cheese, cheese product, plastic cheese, or cheese singles) is a food product made from cheese (and sometimes other, unfermented, dairy by-product ingredients); plus emulsifiers, saturated vegetable oils, extra salt, food colorings, whey or sugar. Pasteurized process cheese can be made from a single cheese (solid, or powdered), or a blend of several cheeses. Cream, milkfat, water, salt, artificial color, oils (for consistency and texture), and spices may also be added. The mixture is heated with an emulsifier, poured into a mold, and allowed to cool.
California has been producing cheese for as long as it has been making wine-more than 200 years. Today, California has more than 50 cow's milk cheesemakers who produce 250 varieties and styles of cheese that are increasingly available in grocery stores, specialty markets and cheese shops nationally. 1 Weight is the best method to measure cheese for recipes: 4 ounces of natural cheese equals 1 cup shredded cheese (1 ounce = 1/4 cup).
Definition: A cheese rind that forms naturally when the outside of the cheese hardens from contact with air during the cheesemaking process. Most natural rinds are edible, however, the flavor of the rind rarely enhances the cheese and the texture is often gritty, so it's best to avoid eating it. 
NATURAL CHEESE is made directly from milk, occasionally from whey. It is either the fresh or cured type. In cheesemaking, the word “natural” is a purely technical term to distinguish one type of cheese from processed and imitation cheese with no qualitative meaning attached to the term. 