Fish has always had one temperature for being done. The internal temperature for a done fish should be 145 degrees. At this temperature the fish should be opaque throughout and flake easily when tested with a fork. Like you, I prefer my Salmon to be medium, so the internal temperature will not be 145. As far as the internal temperature for other fish. I think you will need to test some fish to find the right internal temperature for the way you like your fish cooked. I know that on Cod and Halibut, I under cook mine a little so it is moister. But I never have checked the temperature, but will next time.
Internal Temperature Cooking Chart Beef-Pork-Poultry-Fish and Seafood-Baked Goods copyright 2004 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. This web site may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission and appropriate credit given.
Fortunately, cooking the fillets to an internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit should eliminate that risk by killing the harmful organisms. But if you undercook your salmon, these organisms might remain intact. When contaminated fish is consumed, it can lead to a variety of food-borne illnesses.
It measures the internal temperature of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, breads, baked goods, and/or casseroles to assure that a safe temperature has been reached and that harmful bacteria (like certain strains of Salmonella and E. Coli O 157:H7) has been destroyed.
Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly.
Knowing when the fish is ready takes a little know-how, and we're here to help. Kitchen Fact: The safe internal temperature for cooked fish is 145°F, or until the fish is opaque and flakes easily with a fork. When cooking fish, cook it until the center reaches 145°F on an instant-read or meat thermometer.