Introduction. Isostasy is a fundamental concept in the Geology. It is the idea that the lighter crust must be floating on the denser underlying mantle. It is invoked to explain how different topographic heights can exists on the Earth's surface. The waxing and waning of ice sheets, erosion, sedimentation, and extrusive volcanism are examples of processes that perturb isostasy. The physical properties of the lithosphere (the rocky shell that forms Earth's exterior) are affected by the way the mantle and crust respond to these perturbations.
A scientific theory is a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world that is acquired through the scientific method and repeatedly tested and confirmed through observation and experimentation. From the American Association for the Advancement of Science : A scientific theory is a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of the natural world, based on a body of facts that have been repeatedly confirmed through observation and experiment. Such fact-supported theories are not guesses but reliable accounts of the real world
On a geological scale, isostasy can be observed where Earth's strong crust or lithosphere exerts stress on the weaker mantle or asthenosphere, which, over geological time, flows laterally such that the load is accommodated by height adjustments. This concept is invoked to explain how different topographic heights can exist at Earth's surface. When a certain area of Earth's crust reaches the state of isostasy, it is said to be in isostatic equilibrium.
Earlier theories (e.g. by Alfred Wegener and Alexander du Toit) of continental drift were that continents ploughed through the sea. The idea that the seafloor itself moves (and carries the continents with it) as it expands from a central axis was proposed by Harry Hess from Princeton University in the 1960s. Since then, it has been shown that the motion of the continents is linked to seafloor spreading. In the 1960s, the past record of geomagnetic reversals was noticed by observing the magnetic stripe anomalies on the ocean floor.
In regions that have had the time to reach isostatic equilibrium without being disturbed by other geological effects, such as the south-western United States, very good correlation exists between the local elevation and Bouguer gravity anomalies, providing compelling evidence for isostasy [4]. The waxing and waning of ice sheets, erosion, sedimentation, and extrusive volcanism are examples of processes that perturb isostasy. The physical properties of the lithosphere (the rocky shell that forms Earth's exterior) are affected by the way the mantle and crust respond to these perturbations.
Continental drift was a theory that explained how continents shift position on Earth's surface. Set forth in 1912 by Alfred Wegener, a geophysicist and meteorologist, continental drift also explained why look-alike animal and plant fossils, and similar rock formations, are found on different continents. Although Wegener's continental drift theory was discarded, it did introduce the idea of moving continents to geoscience. And decades later, scientists would confirm some of Wegener's ideas, such as the past existence of a supercontinent joining all the world's landmasses as one.
If they do, there is nothing left but to conclude that the pieces were in fact joined in this way. Wegener began by demolishing the theory that large land bridges had once connected the continents and had since sunk into the sea as part of a general cooling and contraction of the Earth. Given the difference in density between continents and sea floor, plus the process of isostasy, Wegener reasoned that if continent-size land bridges had existed and somehow been forced to the ocean bottom, they would have bobbed-up again when the force was released.
Seafloor spreading is a process that occurs at mid-ocean ridges, where new oceanic crust is formed through volcanic activity and then gradually moves away from the ridge. Seafloor spreading helps explain continental drift in the theory of plate tectonics. Since then, it has been shown that the motion of the continents is linked to seafloor spreading. In the 1960s, the past record of geomagnetic reversals was noticed by observing the magnetic stripe anomalies on the ocean floor.