A cancer syndrome or family cancer syndrome is a genetic disorder in which inherited genetic mutations in one or more genes predispose the affected individuals to the development of cancers and may also cause the early onset of these cancers. Less often, syndromes may be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Both alleles of a gene must be mutated in autosomal recessive disorders for an individual to have a predisposition to cancer. A person with two recessive alleles is known as homozygous recessive.
Cancer is such a common disease that it is no surprise that many families have at least a few members who have had cancer. Sometimes, certain types of cancer seem to run in some families. Sometimes, this is because family members have certain risk factors in common, such as smoking, which can cause many types of cancer. Because breast cancer is rare in men, men with this cancer are often offered genetic counseling and testing for BRCA mutations. Although having a mutation doesn’t affect a man’s future health care like it does a woman’s, it can be helpful for his relatives to know that he has a mutation and so they are at risk.
Changes in many genes, each with a small effect, may underlie susceptibility to many common diseases, including cancer, obesity, diabetes, heart disease, and mental illness. In people with a genetic predisposition, the risk of disease can depend on multiple factors in addition to an identified genetic change. These include other genetic factors (sometimes called modifiers) as well as lifestyle and environmental factors. Genetic variations can have large or small effects on the likelihood of developing a particular disease. For example, certain mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes greatly increase a person’s risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
Genetic Predisposition to Lung Cancer. Whereas tobacco smoking is the predominant risk factor for lung cancer, there are several lines of evidence to suggest that genetic susceptibility modulates this risk. 
1 One first-degree relative with the same or a related tumor and one of the individual features listed. 2  Two or more first-degree relatives with tumors of the same site. 3  Two or more first-degree relatives with tumor types belonging to a known familial cancer syndrome. 4  Two or more first-degree relatives with rare tumors. The preferred citation for this PDQ summary is: http://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/overview-pdq. Images in this summary are used with permission of the author(s), artist, and/or publisher for use within the PDQ summaries only.
A genetic predisposition (sometimes also called genetic susceptibility) is an increased likelihood of developing a particular disease based on a person’s genetic makeup. A genetic predisposition results from specific genetic variations that are often inherited from a parent. Genetic variations can have large or small effects on the likelihood of developing a particular disease. For example, certain mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes greatly increase a person’s risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
1 In the patient’s family: 2  One first-degree relative with the same or a related tumor and one of the individual features listed. 3  Two or more first-degree relatives with tumors of the same site. 4  Two or more first-degree relatives with tumor types belonging to a known familial cancer syndrome. The preferred citation for this PDQ summary is: http://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/genetics/overview-pdq. Images in this summary are used with permission of the author(s), artist, and/or publisher for use within the PDQ summaries only.
The World Health Organization offers information about genetic predisposition to several common diseases, including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and asthma. Genetic Alliance UK offers a fact sheet on genetic predisposition to common genetic diseases. Genetic variations can have large or small effects on the likelihood of developing a particular disease. For example, certain mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes greatly increase a person’s risk of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
Most cancer syndromes are transmitted in a mendelian autosomal dominant manner. In these cases, only one faulty allele has to be present for an individual to have a predisposition to cancer. Individuals with one normal allele and one faulty allele are known as heterozygous. Less often, syndromes may be transmitted as an autosomal recessive trait. Both alleles of a gene must be mutated in autosomal recessive disorders for an individual to have a predisposition to cancer. A person with two recessive alleles is known as homozygous recessive.
The most common inherited syndrome that increases a person's risk for colon cancer is called hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC), or Lynch syndrome. People with this syndrome have a high risk of colorectal cancer. Most of these cancers occur before age 50. Because breast cancer is rare in men, men with this cancer are often offered genetic counseling and testing for BRCA mutations. Although having a mutation doesn’t affect a man’s future health care like it does a woman’s, it can be helpful for his relatives to know that he has a mutation and so they are at risk.