And, cows that lose weight and body condition after calving have longer post-partum intervals. So with all that in mind, the postpartum interval, if conditions are ideal, for beef cows is between 50 and 60 days for an average of 55 days. First-calvers will be at least 10 days longer.
If cows are in good body condition at calving, then the PPI would be in the 45 to 50 day range and if in poor condition, the PPI would be longer. First-calf heifers have a longer PPI compared to mature cows, about 10 days longer if she has no calving difficulty and is in good body condition.
See that the calf gets at least 2 litres of colostrum in the first two hours after birth. Care of the Cow. Get the cow up on her feet as soon after calving as possible and make sure she 'mothers up' to the calf. Following a difficult birth, check for tears in the vagina or uterus. Tears in the vagina, unless extensive, are not too serious but uterine tears demand immediate veterinary attention.
It has been documented in beef cows that uterine involution is not completed by 20 days post-calving, but the uterus is back to its non-pregnant size by 30 days post-calving. Another 10 or so days is needed to complete uterine involution and be prepared for another pregnancy.
I was wondering how soon I can get a cow bred back, after calving. I have a powerful pb angus that is 8yrs old. She raises a great calf year after year, star power has worked and any maine bull we put on her. She missed 2 cycles last year and will be dropping her current calf any day now, which will be a pb angus.
Cows will usually only produce one calf per year. On a rare occasion she may give birth to twins. A female can give birth to her first calf at two years of age, dairy cattle a … re usually only able to produce for about 7-9 years. Beef cattle are usually able to produce for about 10-14 years.
After calving, it takes 60 to 90 days for cows to resume cycles. This period is called postpartum anestrous. In first calf heifers, postpartum anestrous lasts longer than mature cows. It normally takes 90 to 120 days for first calf heifer
Most cows cycle 45 to 60 days after calving. Remember, her uterus needs to heal and shrink before she can conceive again. Last year we took a chance and bred back our good simmi cow at her 45 day heat cycle, and everyone told us it was a waist of semen.
As a general rule, a good fertile cow or first-calf heifer should be able to come back into heat in 45 to 60 days after calving. But if you need your females to meet the same calving date as the previous year, you will have to account for at least 80 to 90 days of rest before you can get her bred again.