1 Asparagus is planted in early spring as soon as the soil can be worked. 2  The plant is grown from “crowns” (1-year-old plants). 3  Eliminate all weeds from the bed, digging it over and working in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost, manure or soil mix. 4  Dig trenches of about 6 inches wide and 6 to 12 inches deep. Asparagus is a perennial bulb and stem vegetable that greets us every spring. It may take 2 to 3 years to get started and produce, so patience is needed! But then the plant can be productive up to 20 years, so we think it's worth the wait. Asparagus has male and female plants, with the female plants producing berries.
Asparagus harvesting should begin when the stems are five to eight inches long and as big around as your finger. Of course, the width will vary from male to female plants. Length may dictate when to pick asparagus, but you will want to get it early enough in the season that it is tender. 
A typical height might be 6-9 inches. Using a sharp knife with a serrated edge (you can buy special asparagus knives) cut the asparagus cleanly 2- 10cm (1-4) below the ground. Take care not to cut the crown of the plant burried beneath the spear. Harvesting Asparagus-here's how. Using a sharp knife with a serrated edge (you can buy special asparagus knives) cut the asparagus cleanly 2- 10cm (1-4) below the ground.
Ideally, asparagus should be cut back in the fall but it is important that you wait until all of the foliage has died back and turned brown or yellow. This will normally happen after first frost, but it can happen without frost in areas that do not receive frost. Other Autumn Asparagus Care. Once you have cut the asparagus back, add several inches of mulch to your asparagus bed. This will help to smother the weeds in the bed and will help fertilize the bed for next year. Compost or well rotted manure makes an excellent mulch for asparagus in autumn
Year 3 - 1st real year of cutting. Some suggest that you can now cut for a full season others suggest cutting for just 3 - 5 weeks. Year 4 and onwards-by now if you have been patient you should be able to work up to cutting for an 8 week season. Harvesting Asparagus-here's how. Using a sharp knife with a serrated edge (you can buy special asparagus knives) cut the asparagus cleanly 2- 10cm (1-4) below the ground. Take care not to cut the crown of the plant burried beneath the spear
When it comes to harvesting asparagus, pay close attention to the appearance of the spears. They should be 6-9 inches long and have tight or closely wrapped tips. As time passes, the tips will begin to loosen and open up. When this happens, the asparagus spears become tough and develop a wood-like texture. They will last 3-6 months. It's time to stop harvesting asparagus when most of the spears fail to reach 1/4 inch in diameter (about the thickness of a pencil). When you reach this point, stop harvesting and let the remaining spear tips open up.
1 Limp asparagus can be refreshed by trimming off the ends of the stalks and placing it stalk side down into a glass holding 1 1/2 to 2 inches of cold water, place a plastic bag over the tops and then store in the refrigerator for approximately 1 1/2 to 2 hours. 2  Avoid cooking asparagus in an iron pot. Some recipes may call for cut asparagus. The spears should be cut at a diagonal in 1 and 2 inch pieces, depending on what the recipe calls for. Several spears can be cut at one time. Cutting the spears into pieces will expose the most flesh and help to ensure even cooking, which may be critical for some recipes.