Best Answer: The top three speed machines of the doggie world are the Greyhound, the Saluki and the Afghan Hound. The long and lanky-bodied Greyhound is considered as the fastest dog in the world. This breed can reach a top speed of 45mph (72km/h) and can be found on racetracks the world over. 
How fast can a Havanese dog run? I would guess around 10 to 15 miles per hour.  I am a somewhat fit person for 30 and I can sprint all out at  around 15 to 18 miles per hour. I can beat my 4 year old Havane … se  when sprinting with her, so I would guess she can sprint at 12 to  15 mph. African wild dogs can run 50 mph. Most large domesticated dogs like a Labrador can run 35 mph. The fastest domesticated dogs like the grey … hound can run 45 mph.
As far as maintaining speed -- the record human Marathon speed is about 12 mph over 26.2 miles (a 4+ minute mile). Winners of competitive sled dog mid-distance races typically run a 3+ minute mile, in races of 25-50 miles. They can go further faster than any top marathon runner. Greyhounds can reach speeds of 42 MPH, well, well beyond the reach of the fastest humans who generally clock in somewhere around 20 MPH. But based on a stat I found online (who knows how crdible it is) the average dog runs 19 MPH, which would be about even with humans, if not slower.
Keep your dog on a leash no longer than 6 feet, and make him run at your speed. Dogs are sprinters, so they can’t maintain a fast pace for very long. I’m not a “fast” runner by most standards, but I can outpace most of the dogs I run. They lose some steam after about five minutes. People ask for tips on how to run with a dog since I cover about 40 miles per week offering dog running sessions through my business Run That Mutt.
A Siberian Husky can reach 20 miles per hour without difficulty. They are fast runners and can endure long distances. So basically they can run 50 miles going 20 mph. They were bred to run hard and fast pulling a heavy load. The adverage Siberian can run 15 miles per hour pulling 150 pounds for 45 miles strait. 
Tips for running with dogs. People ask for tips on how to run with a dog since I cover about 40 miles per week offering dog running sessions through my business Run That Mutt. I also go about 20 miles through dog walking
How fast can a dog run 100 meters? The average dog is faster than the average human,but is not as fast as the top class sprinters.So i would say about 11 seconds for the 100 meters. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Jorge Quinones. 41,382 Contributions. There are things that interest me. if u have a big dog, it is because they have lots of muscle in their legs, but if they are overweight, then they do not go as fast, but if you are talking about a small dog, i … t is because they do not weigh that much and can move faster because that do not have to lug around so much weight.
Your dog can certainly run much faster and longer than you can. If you’re worried, then start with 1 mile. Then increase the distance to 2, 3, 6 miles and so on. Some dogs really can run distances of 15 or 20 miles in a day easily. People ask for tips on how to run with a dog since I cover about 40 miles per week offering dog running sessions through my business Run That Mutt.
How fast can a dog run? Your average dog, if you were to take all the top speeds, add them all up together, and average them out, it's going to be somewhere around 19 miles an hour or so. Again, this is your average dog that is out playing, you're at the dog park, moving around, throwing the ball around. Cancel. A dog can run an average of 19 miles per hour, but the fastest dog breeds, such as a greyhound, can run up to 42 miles per hour at their top speed. Discover how fast dogs can run with information from a pet care specialist in this free video on dogs