If you inherit a traditional IRA, you are called a beneficiary. A beneficiary can be any person or entity the owner chooses to receive the benefits of the IRA after he or she dies. Beneficiaries of a traditional IRA must include in their gross income any taxable distributions they receive. Distributions from a traditional IRA are taxable in the year you receive them even if they are made without your consent by a state agency as receiver of an insolvent savings institution. This means you must include such distributions in your gross income unless you roll them over.
Loss of IRA status. If the traditional IRA ceases to be an IRA because of a prohibited transaction by you or your beneficiary, you or your beneficiary are not liable for these excise taxes. However, you or your beneficiary may have to pay other taxes as discussed under Effect on you or your beneficiary, earlier. Distributions from a traditional IRA are taxable in the year you receive them even if they are made without your consent by a state agency as receiver of an insolvent savings institution. This means you must include such distributions in your gross income unless you roll them over.
You can divide a large IRA into several smaller ones and name a different beneficiary for each one. (If your money is in an employer’s plan, you can roll it into an IRA and then split it.). If you name several beneficiaries for one IRA, the oldest one’s life expectancy will determine the payout after you die. But with separate IRAs (one for each beneficiary), each life expectancy will be used, providing the maximum stretch out. This is especially important if a charity is involved.
DOWNLOAD ANAPPLICATION. A Beneficiary IRA is designed to keep inherited IRA assets tax-deferred until they are ready for distribution. If you are inheriting a loved one’s IRA, a Beneficiary IRA from E*TRADE is a smart way to protect and preserve your assets. 
Your Beneficiary Status. If, as the beneficiary of an IRA, you are the spouse of the original IRA owner, you can switch the IRA to your name and treat it like you were the original owner. This means you do not have to take any withdrawals until you reach the minimum required distribution age of 70 1/2. Taxes Must Be Paid Eventually. An IRA is a tax-deferred account, and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules force taxes to be paid on the account eventually. If you choose to withdraw any money from the inherited IRA, that money will be taxable for the year in which you made the withdrawal.
If you are the beneficiary of an IRA, taxes must eventually be paid on the proceeds of the IRA. However, depending on your beneficiary status, there can be a lot of flexibility as to when the taxes must be paid. Taxes Must Be Paid Eventually. An IRA is a tax-deferred account, and Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules force taxes to be paid on the account eventually. If you choose to withdraw any money from the inherited IRA, that money will be taxable for the year in which you made the withdrawal.
However, if you receive a distribution from your deceased spouse's IRA, you can roll that distribution over into your own IRA within the 60-day time limit, as long as the distribution is not a required distribution, even if you are not the sole beneficiary of your deceased spouse's IRA. Distributions from a traditional IRA are taxable in the year you receive them even if they are made without your consent by a state agency as receiver of an insolvent savings institution. This means you must include such distributions in your gross income unless you roll them over.
1 You can re-file the IRA as an inherited IRA. 2  This is a good option if you are younger than 59½ but need to make distributions from the account. 3  Since beneficiaries never pay an early withdrawal penalty regardless of age, if you remain in the status of beneficiary, you can take distributions without penalty. If You’re a Spouse Beneficiary. The spouse has more options than a non-spouse beneficiary. Here are the four options: 1  You can rollover the deceased’s IRA to your own. 2  This is a good option if you are younger than the deceased and can further delay the required beginning date for distributions.