The world’s first ice-calorimeter, used in the winter of 1782-83, by Antoine Lavoisier and Pierre-Simon Laplace, to determine the heat evolved in various chemical changes; calculations which were based on Joseph Black ’s prior discovery of latent heat. The measurement of heat using a simple calorimeter, like the coffee cup calorimeter, is an example of constant-pressure calorimetry, since the pressure (atmospheric pressure) remains constant during the process. Constant-pressure calorimetry is used in determining the changes in enthalpy occurring in solution.
As one of the devices used in the science of calorimetry, the calorimeter plays an important role in measuring heat capacity in a number of secure environments, as well as the physical changes that occur with the incidence of specific chemical reactions. 
A calorimeter is generally used to measure the amount of heat energy and then uses that to calculate the specific heat of a substance or other heat related information. Calorimeters include two vessels. One is known as an outer vessel and the other is known as an inner vessel. A calorimeter is generally used to measure the amount of heat energy and then uses that to calculate the specific heat of a substance or other heat related information. It also contains a thermometer and a stirrer. The thermometer is used to measure the temperature of the liquid (usually water) in the
A calorimeter is a device used to measure the quantity of heat flow in a chemical reaction. Two of the most common types of calorimeters are the coffee cup calorimeter and the bomb calorimeter. Coffee Cup Calorimeter. A coffee cup calorimeter is essentially a polystyrene (Styrofoam) cup with a lid. In a bomb calorimeter, the reaction takes place in a sealed metal container, which is placed in the water in an insulated container. Heat flow from the reaction crosses the walls of the sealed container to the water. The temperature difference of the water is measured, just as it was for a coffee cup
A calorimeter is an object used for calorimetry, or the process of measuring the heat of chemical reactions or physical changes as well as heat capacity. Differential scanning calorimeters, isothermal microcalorimeters, titration calorimeters and accelerated rate calorimeters are among the most common types. The measurement of heat using a simple calorimeter, like the coffee cup calorimeter, is an example of constant-pressure calorimetry, since the pressure (atmospheric pressure) remains constant during the process. Constant-pressure calorimetry is used in determining the changes in enthalpy occurring in solution.
Calorimetry. Calorimetry is the measurement of the quantity of heat exchanged. For example, if the energy from an exothermic chemical reaction is absorbed in a container of water, the change in temperature of the water provides a measure of the amount of heat added.
Calorimetry. Calorimetry is used to determine the heat released or absorbed in a chemical reaction. The calorimeters shown here can determine the heat of a solution reaction at constant (atmospheric) pressure. The calorimeter is a double styrofoam cup fitted with a plastic top in which there is a hole for a thermometer
Calorimetry is the science or act of measuring changes in state variables of a body for the purpose of deriving the heat transfer associated with changes of its state due for example to chemical reactions, physical changes, or phase transitions under specified constraints. Calorimetry is performed with a calorimeter. The word calorimetry is derived from the Latin word calor, meaning heat and the Greek word μέτρον (metron), meaning measure.
The materials involved in the calorimetry are modeled here as a volume of water, a source of heat which is characterized by its equivalent water mass, and the container or calorimeter with its mass and specific heat. For example, if the energy from an exothermic chemical reaction is absorbed in a container of water, the change in temperature of the water provides a measure of the amount of heat added.