Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Replace a Tub Faucet! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Tub Faucet Replacement project. For a basic 1 faucet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Replace a Tub Faucet ranges between $350.80 - $579.54 per faucet. To estimate costs for your project: 1.
A plumber will charge $250 to remove an old faucet and replace it with a good quality and stylish new one. That includes the labor and new faucet. You can do it for $145, the cost of the new unit, and save 42 percent. You need basic plumbing tools, along with a basin wrench, a specialty tool that twists and turns so it can loosen and adjust tough-to-reach fasteners on a faucet assembly.
Compare the cost to replace a kitchen faucet yourself with the labor and material cost to hire a plumber for the job. That includes the labor and new faucet. You can do it for $145, the cost of the new unit, and save 42 percent. You need basic plumbing tools, along with a basin wrench, a specialty tool that twists and turns so it can loosen and adjust tough-to-reach fasteners on a faucet assembly.
Purchasing extra remotes and getting openers set up for operation will typically range from $100 to $400, which will add to the overall cost of the garage door installation. If your opener works with the new door, you won't need to have it replaced. Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed.
If you have an old single-handle faucet, you can replace it with a new one designed specifically for do-it-yourselfers. There is a nice array of finishes in single-handle faucets, so you'll be able to find one that matches your bathroom accessories. The replacement gets more complicated and expensive if the existing faucet is very old or has two handles, which usually requires a different type of faucet. Tip: Don't forget to turn off the water supply lines under the sink before you begin this or any faucet project. That sums it up.
Here are some factors to consider as you look to invest in a new garage door: A garage door will cost anywhere from $200 for single doors to $4,000 for two or more doors, with better materials accounting for the higher cost. Most homeowners report spending about $1,060 for the door and installation. Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Bathroom Faucet Replacement project. For a basic 1 faucet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Replace a Bathroom Faucet ranges between $263.93 - $393.56 per faucet. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Bathroom Faucet Replacement. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.