To some people, Catawba worms are regarded as a pest because catalpa trees have excellent wood that can be used for fine woodwork. So, in an epic clash of interests, a fisherman’s dream – a tree that almost literally grows fish bait – is a woodworker’s nightmare. The problem is this: Royal Empress trees are very similar to catalpa trees, so the reader fears that if he plants the latter, the Catawba worms will show up and feed on both trees, not just the catalpa tree.
Catalpa Worms. Catalpa worms, also known as catawbas, are the caterpillar stage of the Sphinx moth. They attack catalpa trees and are recognized pests in many areas. However, catalpa worms are prized as catfish bait and some growers nurture trees just for harvesting and sales to fishermen. Like many other caterpillars, catalpas spend the winter underground in the pupae stage. Catalpa worms can also be frozen and returned to their live state when thawed. Just add them to sawdust or cornmeal in a glass jar, seal it, and place in the freezer. Let them warm up slowly and catalpa worms are ready to bring home the catch!
They are as good frozen, as they are fresh off the tree. Catalpa Worms come from the Catalpa tree mostly in the southern regions of the country. These worms infest the tree and eat the leaves several times a year. Some people consider them as pests to the environment, but fisherman will search far and wide to get these prize catfish attractors. How to fish with Catalpa Worms! We don't just sell them, we use them ourselves and know that they work! 1. Take out only as many as you intend to fish with for the day and keep them stored in a cooler with ice to retain their flavor. They will turn brown over time and can be refrozen and used again for another day.
THE CATALPA SPHINX is a common hawk or sphinx moth, (Photo 1) but it is the caterpillar stage, (Photo 2), that is most often encountered and best known. The caterpillars, commonly called catalpa worms or catawba worms, feed on leaves of catalpa and often completely strip trees of foliage. The catalpa tree, with its broad, dense crown and showy flowers, is prized by many as a shade or ornamental tree. Catalpa worms can essentially destroy this ornamental value. In this circumstance, the catalpa sphinx is a destructive, unwanted pest.
I have a Catalpa tree and I’m not a fisherman, so the worms are a pest, in my eyes. The tree came with the house when we bought it and the tree sits between two pecan trees and I have seen them in the pecan trees. The problem is this: Royal Empress trees are very similar to catalpa trees, so the reader fears that if he plants the latter, the Catawba worms will show up and feed on both trees, not just the catalpa tree.
Another source, who happens to have written a book about Catawba worms and catalpa trees (along with a now defunct newsletter on the same subject – talk about an enthusiast!), says the same, writing that “without Catalpa Trees, you will not have any Catalpa Worms” (capitalization his). The problem is this: Royal Empress trees are very similar to catalpa trees, so the reader fears that if he plants the latter, the Catawba worms will show up and feed on both trees, not just the catalpa tree.
Interestingly, though, Catawba worms only appear to defoliate catalpa trees (indeed, they can do this up to three times in a summer) without causing lasting damage to the tree itself. Maybe fishermen and wood craftsmen can live in harmony after all. The problem is this: Royal Empress trees are very similar to catalpa trees, so the reader fears that if he plants the latter, the Catawba worms will show up and feed on both trees, not just the catalpa tree.