1 Reduce heat to medium low or low. 2  Cover the pan with a lid. 3  Cook the potatoes in gently boiling water until tender, about 15 minutes for cubed potatoes and new potatoes and 20 to 25 minutes for quartered potatoes. Boiling Potatoes. 1  Place the potatoes in a large saucepan or pot. 2  Add enough cold water to cover the tops of the potatoes. 3  Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon salt to the water. 4  Turn the burner on high and bring water to boiling. 5  Reduce heat to medium low or low. 6
1 Don't preheat the oven. 2  Prick your sweet potatoes each 2-3 time with a fork, then place them directly on the oven rack in the middle of the oven, above the foil. 3  Turn the oven on to 425. 4  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 1 Turn the oven on to 425. 2  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 3  For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 4  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes.
When I make sweet potato pie I bake the potatoes for 45 to 55 minutes. Or until soft on the inside. Soft enough to pierce with a fork. Or you can boil them for 15 to 20 minute … s. Just do as you do with regular potatoes. Boil until you can pierce with a fork and it's soft enough to fall apart.
1 Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 2  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 3  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked. 1 Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 2  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 3  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 4
Step 2: Peel and prep. Before using, scrub the sweet potatoes with a clean produce brush and rinse with cool water. Use a vegetable peeler or paring knife to peel sweet potatoes. Using a knife, cut off any woody portions and ends. Store whole unpeeled sweet potatoes in a cool, dry place for up to 1 week (do not refrigerate or they will dry out). Tip: One pound of sweet potatoes equals about 2 medium sweet potatoes or 2 3/4 cups cubed.
Boiling. If you must boil a sweet potato, do not peel and cut it up first. Chopping it into small pieces creates a larger surface area, increasing the amount of oxidation and allowing many of a sweet potato's nutrients to boil away. Better to boil the sweet potato whole with the jacket on. Cook sweet potatoes with jackets on to retain nutrients. Sweet potatoes were first cultivated by Native Americans and eventually became a staple of early homesteaders' diets. George Washington was a sweet potato farmer before he became a Revolutionary War general and his soldiers also became fond of them.
1 Cover the pan with a lid. 2  Cook the potatoes in gently boiling water until tender, about 15 minutes for cubed potatoes and new potatoes and 20 to 25 minutes for quartered potatoes. 3  Drain the potatoes in a colander. Boiling Potatoes. 1  Place the potatoes in a large saucepan or pot. 2  Add enough cold water to cover the tops of the potatoes. 3  Add 1/2 to 1 teaspoon salt to the water. 4  Turn the burner on high and bring water to boiling. 5  Reduce heat to medium low or low. 6 
1 Put your potatoes, peeled or unpeeled, cut or whole, into a cooking pot and completely cover them with cold water. 2  Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 3  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 4  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 1 Add 1 or 2 teaspoons of salt to the water before starting to cook. 2  Bring the water and potatoes to a boil then reduce heat to low. 3  Cover, and simmer for 15 to 30 minutes or until fork-tender. 4  Check at 5 minute intervals since cooking time will vary according to the type, size and quantity of potatoes being cooked
Bring to boiling. Add sweet potatoes. Cover the pan and cook sweet potatoes for 10 to 12 minutes or until just tender on the outside but resistant in the center when pierced with a knife. For soft, tender sweet potatoes, cook for 25 to 30 minutes. Store whole unpeeled sweet potatoes in a cool, dry place for up to 1 week (do not refrigerate or they will dry out). Tip: One pound of sweet potatoes equals about 2 medium sweet potatoes or 2 3/4 cups cubed.