FIND OUT MORE. Earth’s crust is made of rock, and rock is made of natural substances called MINERALS. There are three main types of rock—sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rock. Each type is produced in different ways. The oldest rocks on Earth were formed about 3.8 billion years ago
The oldest whole rocks found so far date back about 4.28 billion years. They were found in 2001 by geologists excavating near Canada's Hudson Bay in northern Quebec, andthe research appeared in the Sept. 25, 2008, issue of the journal Science. The oldest rocks in the grand canyon are about 2 billion years old, but they are not even half the age of the oldest known rocks on earth. Credit: The National Park Service View full size image.
1 The oldest rocks on Earth, found in western Greenland, have been dated by four independent radiometric dating methods at 3.7-3.8 billion years. 2  Rocks 3.4-3.6 billion years in age have been found in southern Africa, western Australia, and the Great Lakes region of North America. 1 Rocks 3.4-3.6 billion years in age have been found in southern Africa, western Australia, and the Great Lakes region of North America. 2  These oldest rocks are metamorphic rocks but they originated as lava flows and sedimentary rocks.
The oldest geological material ever found, which are not technically rocks, are mineral grains called zircons found in Western Australia, which date back about 4.36 billion years. Technically, the oldest known rocks existing on Earth are not from Earth at all, but are instead of extraterrestrial origin. The oldest rocks in the grand canyon are about 2 billion years old, but they are not even half the age of the oldest known rocks on earth. Credit: The National Park Service View full size image.
Jack Hills, Australia, where rocks were found to contain the oldest known minerals on Earth, a 4.4 billion-year-old zircon. Credit: John Valley, University of Wisconsin. View full size image. Just three of the very oldest zircons have been found, ones that date back to almost 4.4 billion years ago. By zapping single atoms of lead in a tiny zircon crystal from Australia, researchers have confirmed the crystal is the oldest rock fragment ever found on Earth — 4.375 billion years old, plus or minus 6 million years.
You don't need to go to a museum to find really, really old things. Ordinary rocks, for example, may be millions or billions of years old, and are free for the taking. But rocks you're likely find along a nature trail or highway are mere infants compared to the oldest rocks on Earth. Geologists categorize rocks into three basic types, depending on their origin. The oldest rocks in the grand canyon are about 2 billion years old, but they are not even half the age of the oldest known rocks on earth. Credit: The National Park Service View full size image.
Well, scientists just took one of geology's biggest controversies and shrunk it down to atomic size. By zapping single atoms of lead in a tiny zircon crystal from Australia, researchers have confirmed the crystal is the oldest rock fragment ever found on Earth — 4.375 billion years old, plus or minus 6 million years. Rock around the clock: zircon crystal is oldest piece of Earth. Oldest Rock Speck Zeros In On Earth's Cooling Date. Oldest rock in the world proves Earth ready for life. The Oldest Bit Of The Earth's Crust Is In Australia And It's 4.4 Billion Years Old.
The oldest rock found on Earth is of extraterrestrial origin, having landed as a meteorite and dating to around 4.56 billion years ago, at the time of the formation of the sol … ar system. For information on the oldest rock of terrestrial origin and the oldest terrestrial material, please see the related questions. Earlier it was thought that the oldest rock of India belonged to sinngbhum craton (around 3700 my old). But as of now the oldest dated rock from India is TTG rocks from Bastar … craton (roughly 3.8 by old).).
Such rocks are exposed on the Earth's surface in very few places. (Some meteorites, such as the ALH84001 Mars meteorite found in the Allan Hills of Antarctica, are older but they were not formed on Earth). Some of the oldest surface rock can be found in the Canadian Shield, Australia, Africa and in a few other old regions around the world. The ages of these felsic rocks are generally between 2.5 and 3.8 billion years. 