Sometimes referred to as garlic bologna, this sausage differs from traditional bologna due to various seasonings, most typically garlic being added to the recipe. Although referred to as German bologna elsewhere, it is usually called Fleischwurst in Germany and Extrawurst in Austria. Ring bologna is much smaller in diameter than standard bologna. It is a good size for slicing and putting on crackers as a snack or hors d'oeuvre (as opposed to the sandwich-sized slices of typical bologna). It is generally sold as an entire link rather than sliced.
#1 Skillet fan-August 30, 2010 - 12:21 pm. baloney is full of fat and other parts of beef that cannot be packaged other wise. therefore, it is imposible to know for sure what is in the deli meat. The inexpensive deli meat is often pronounced and spelled “baloney.”. (Go here to learn the exact meaning of the word “deli.”). While Oscar Mayer Americanized bologna, it is enjoyed in different forms throughout the world.
Bologna comes from Bologna -- Italy, that is. Although if you ask for bologna there, no one will know what you are talking about. What you'll end up with is mortadella, the Italian godfather of American baloney.. Mortadella is a thick Italian sausage, flecked with bits of fat, peppercorns and sometimes pistachios. Mortadella is to bologna as fresh, roasted turkey on Thanksgiving is to sliced turkey lunchmeat
2. What the answer says is Actually, 'baloney' comes from a pronunciation of the city name.. It doesn't report which pronunciations of the town were used, and it doesn't explain why the pronunciation is different for the town name and for the sausage name. – kiamlaluno Jul 28 '11 at 19:17.
The bologna sausage is traditionally made from the “odds and ends” of chicken, turkey, beef, or pork. It is similar to the Italian mortadella, which originated in the Italian city of Bologna. The inexpensive deli meat is often pronounced and spelled “baloney.”. (Go here to learn the exact meaning of the word “deli.”). While Oscar Mayer Americanized bologna, it is enjoyed in different forms throughout the world. In Newfoundland, it is a popular breakfast food called the Newfie Steak
Bologna refers to a type of sausage made of finely ground meat that has been cooked and smoked. Baloney is nonsense. It is an early 20th-century American coinage derived from bologna. It may also be influenced by blarney, which in one of its definitions means nonsense or deceptive talk. Our reference sources differ on whether baloney and bologna are homophones in English.
Except for the myrtle berry which is the wildcard that gives bologna that recognizable je ne sais quoi. If you don't believe me, go get yourself a bottle of Mirto, a traditional Sardinian digestif made from myrtle berries and tell me it doesn't kind of taste like bologna. Although if you ask for bologna there, no one will know what you are talking about. What you'll end up with is mortadella, the Italian godfather of American baloney.. Mortadella is a thick Italian sausage, flecked with bits of fat, peppercorns and sometimes pistachios.
Bologna sausage, sometimes phonetically spelled as baloney (/bəˈloʊni/), boloney or polony, is a sausage derived from the Italian mortadella, a similar-looking, finely ground pork sausage containing cubes of lard, originally from the Italian city of Bologna, [boˈloɲɲa]. ). Ring bologna is much smaller in diameter than standard bologna. It is a good size for slicing and putting on crackers as a snack or hors d'oeuvre (as opposed to the sandwich-sized slices of typical bologna). It is generally sold as an entire link rather than sliced.