In chemistry, a glycoside /ˈɡlaɪkəsaɪd/ is a molecule in which a sugar is bound to another functional group via a glycosidic bond. If the glycone group of a glycoside is glucose, then the molecule is a glucoside; if it is fructose, then the molecule is a fructoside; if it is glucuronic acid, then the molecule is a glucuronide; etc.
Cardiac glycosides are organic compounds containing a glycoside (sugar) that act on the contractile force of the cardiac muscle. Because of their potency in disrupting the function of the heart, most are extremely toxic. 
Definition of GLYCOSIDE. : any of numerous sugar derivatives that contain a nonsugar group bonded to an oxygen or nitrogen atom and that on hydrolysis yield a sugar (as glucose). — gly·co·sid·ic \ˌglī-kə-ˈsi-dik\ adjective. — gly·co·sid·i·cal·ly \-di-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of GLYCOSIDE. : any of numerous sugar derivatives that contain a nonsugar group attached through an oxygen or nitrogen bond and that on hydrolysis yield a sugar (as glucose). — gly·co·sid·ic \ˌglī-kə-ˈsid-ik\ adjective. — gly·co·sid·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb
When a glycoside's glycone group is glucose, the molecule is called a glucoside, but if the glycone group of a glycoside is fructose, the molecule is called a fructose. Put in a different way, the concluding letter e' of the name of the analogous cyclic type of the monosaccharide is substituted by the suffix ide'. In other words, glycosides are basically molecules wherein a sugar is attached to a non-carbohydrate element, generally a minor natural molecule. Glycosides have several important functions in all living organisms.
In chemical nomenclature (description), a glycoside is a molecule in which, a sugar group is bonded to another group through an O-glycosidic bond (a bond containing oxygen) or an S-glycosidic bond (a sulfur-containing bond); Glycosides with sulfur-containing bonds are also referred to as thioglycosides. If the glycone portion of a glycoside is glucose, then we refer to the molecule as a glucoside. If the glycone portion of the glycoside is fructose, then we refer to the molecule as fructoside. If the glycone portion of the glycoside is glururonic acid then we refer to the glycoside as a glucuronide.
Introduction. \Glycosides are a class of molecules in which, a sugar molecule is bonded to a non-sugar molecule. Glycosides play important roles in our lives. Many plants store medicinally important chemicals in the form of inactive glycosides. If the glycone portion of a glycoside is glucose, then we refer to the molecule as a glucoside. If the glycone portion of the glycoside is fructose, then we refer to the molecule as fructoside. If the glycone portion of the glycoside is glururonic acid then we refer to the glycoside as a glucuronide.
Many such plant glycosides are used as medications. In animals and humans, poisons are often bound to sugar molecules as part of their elimination from the body. In formal terms, a glycoside is any molecule in which a sugar group is bonded through its anomeric carbon to another group via a glycosidic bond. If the glycone group of a glycoside is glucose, then the molecule is a glucoside; if it is fructose, then the molecule is a fructoside; if it is glucuronic acid, then the molecule is a glucuronide; etc.
glycoside. cardiac glycoside any of a group of glycosides occurring in certain plants (e.g., Digitalis, Strophanthus, Urginea), acting on the contractile force of cardiac muscle; some are used as cardiotonics and antiarrhythmics. cardiac glycoside any of a group of glycosides occurring in certain plants (Digitalis, etc.), having a characteristic action on the contractile force of the heart muscle.
In fact, glycosides in which a sugar group is bound to another by means of an S-glycosidic attachment are also known as thioglycosides. In such cases, the sugar group is subsequently identified as glycone, while the non-sugar group is recognized as the genin or aglycone element of the glycoside. In other words, glycosides are basically molecules wherein a sugar is attached to a non-carbohydrate element, generally a minor natural molecule. Glycosides have several important functions in all living organisms.