The Millennial generation is the first born into the digital world, specifically the Internet and social media. Technology is incorporated into their everyday lives, and has been a major contributing factor to the growth of Silicon Valley as a technology hub. A name given to the generation born between 1982 and 2004. The Millennial generation follows Generation X in order of demographic cohorts.
Nevertheless, the particular environment for any generation affects those individuals in ways that are observable as broad tendencies. This definition of the term discusses those reported tendencies for Millennials in the workplace, Millennials and technology, Millennials and culture. The term Millennials is usually considered to apply to individuals who reached adulthood around the turn of the 21st century. The precise delineation varies from one source to another, however.
Millennials are generally comfortable with the idea of a public Internet life. Privacy, in the Millennial eye, is mostly a concern of functional settings limiting who sees their online shares. This comfort with social media means they are good at self-promotion and fostering connections through online media. The term Millennials is usually considered to apply to individuals who reached adulthood around the turn of the 21st century. The precise delineation varies from one source to another, however.
People waste too much energy debating who actually counts as a millennial. The analysts at Goldman Sachs have come out with their own definition, which you can c heck out below. For starters, it is currently anyone between the ages of 15 and 35. Goldman Sachs. 
Definition of MILLENNIAL. : of or relating to a millennium. 
3. millennial. Born Between 1982 and 1995, millennial is the term used to describe the next generation. Characteristics include: a strong sense of citizenship, moral, confident, sociable, street smart, diverse. Millennials often are associated with being optimistic, stubborn and civic
Generation Y definition. The term Millennials generally refers to the generation of people born between the early 1980s and the early 2000s. Perhaps the most commonly used birth range for this group is 1982-2000. But the term didn't age well, and Millennials has largely over taken it. But the terms basically mean the same thing. Millennials characteristics. Millennials have been characterized in a number of different ways.
DEFINITION of 'Millennial'. A name given to the generation born between 1982 and 2004. The Millennial generation follows Generation X in order of demographic cohorts. This generation is often associated with technology and social media. Also known as Generation Y
Millennials (also known as the Millennial Generation or Generation Y) are the demographic cohort following Generation X. There are no precise dates when the generation starts and ends; most researchers and commentators use birth years ranging from the early 1980s to the early 2000s. William Strauss and Neil Howe projected in their 1991 book Generations that the U.S. Millennial population would be 76 million. Later Neil Howe revised the number to over 95 million people (in the U.S.).