Whiplash injury: A hyperextension and flexion injury to the neck, often a result of being struck from behind, as by a fast-moving vehicle in a car accident. 
1 the lash of a whip. 2  an abrupt snapping motion or change of direction resembling the lash of a whip. 3  Also,whip′lash in′jury. a neck injury caused by a sudden jerking backward, forward, or both, of the head:Whiplash resulted when their car was struck from behind. 
Whiplash is a non-medical term describing a range of injuries to the neck caused by or related to a sudden distortion of the neck associated with extension, although the exact injury mechanism(s) remain unknown. The term whiplash is a colloquialism. 
an injury to the cervical vertebrae or their supporting ligaments and muscles marked by pain and stiffness. It usually results from sudden acceleration or deceleration, such as in a rear-end car collision that causes violent back-and-forth movement of the head and neck. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: whiplash (Noun). the lash of a whip. whiplash (Noun). an injury to the upper spine caused by a violent jerk of the head in either a backward or forward or side to side direction. whiplash (Verb). To jerk back and forth; to buffet. whiplash (Verb). To lash as if with a whip. 
Full Definition of WHIPLASH. 1. : the lash of a whip. 2. 3. : injury resulting from a sudden sharp whipping movement of the neck and head (as of a person in a vehicle that is struck from the rear by another vehicle). See whiplash defined for English-language learners. See whiplash defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Subscribe to our Pain Management Advisor e-newsletter for tips to manage pain. Whiplash is a neck injury due to forceful, rapid back-and-forth movement of the neck, like the cracking of a whip. Whiplash most often occurs during a rear-end auto accident, but the injury can also result from a sports accident, physical abuse or other trauma. Common signs and symptoms of whiplash include neck pain, stiffness and headaches. 
Medical Definition of WHIPLASH. : injury resulting from a sudden sharp whipping movement of the neck and head (as of a person in a vehicle that is struck head-on or from the rear by another vehicle). : injury resulting from a sudden sharp whipping movement of the neck and head (as of a person in a vehicle that is struck from the rear by another vehicle). See whiplash defined for English-language learners. See whiplash defined for kids.
Noun. 1. whiplash-an injury to the neck (the cervical vertebrae) resulting from rapid acceleration or deceleration (as in an automobile accident). whiplash injury. harm, hurt, injury, trauma-any physical damage to the body caused by violence or accident or fracture etc. 1. the lash of a whip. 2. an abrupt snapping motion resembling the lash of a whip. 3. a neck injury caused by a sudden jerking of the head backward, forward, or both.