Formica laminate was invented in 1912 by Daniel J. O'Conor and Herbert A. Faber, while working at Westinghouse. They filed for a patent on it on 1 February 1913. Formica laminate is a brand of composite materials manufactured by New Zealand-based Formica Group.
Ad. 2. Lightly sand the surface on which you will install the Formica. Sand the surface to create a rough surface for solid adherence, and wipe away sawdust with a tack cloth or damp rag. 1  If the surface is covered by paint or varnish, you should sand thoroughly to remove it using coarse or medium coarse sandpaper. Select the correct Formica or other laminate for your project. Most places that sell laminate will provide sample chips for you to take home and compare to the house's color scheme. Take several of these home and test for additional properties to help you decide.
In common use, the word Formica refers to the company's classic product, a heat-resistant, wipe-clean, plastic laminate of paper or fabric with melamine resin. Formica laminate is a brand of composite materials manufactured by New Zealand-based Formica Group.
Formica Group, a division of the New Zealand company Fletcher Building, consists of Formica Canada, Inc., Formica Corporation, Formica de Mexico S.A. de C.V., Formica IKI Oy, Formica Limited, Formica S.A., Formica S.A.S., Formica Taiwan Corporation, Formica (Thailand) Co., Ltd., and Formica (Asia) Ltd., among others. Formica laminate is a brand of composite materials manufactured by New Zealand-based Formica Group.
Formica, or any other brand of household laminate, is most often used for kitchen counters and wall decoration. Laminate is easy to clean and relatively durable, although, being plastic, it can melt if exposed to excessive heat. Select the correct Formica or other laminate for your project. Most places that sell laminate will provide sample chips for you to take home and compare to the house's color scheme. Take several of these home and test for additional properties to help you decide.
­­If you've ever wondered about the Formica countertops in your kitchen or bath -- or the laminate that tops tables and furniture -- this article is for you. Not only will you learn the history of Formica, but also how to repair it and paint it. By the 1950s, Formica laminates were everywhere, in bold and bright new colors. It was f­eatured everywhere from new homes to passenger train cars, and everybody wanted the look and feel of laminates [source: Formica ].
Formica® Solid Surfacing is the ideal choice for a new kitchen or bath. The durable, non-porous material is tough and beautiful, which makes Solid Surfacing the perfect choice for a bar top, worktable, bathroom vanity, or kitchen countertop. Solid Surfacing by Formica Group is not only one of the most beautiful surfacing materials available today, but also one of the most durable. A product of sophisticated modern technology, Solid Surfacing by Formica Group is resistant to stains, bacteria, and impact.
Formica is a genus of ants of the family Formicidae, commonly known as wood ants, mound ants, thatching ants, and field ants. Formica is the type genus of the Formicidae, and of the subfamily Formicinae. The type species of genus Formica is the European red wood ant Formica rufa. As the name wood ant implies, many Formica species live in wooded areas where there exists no shortage of material with which they can thatch their mounds.
The Formica® Corporation has been dedicated to producing high-quality, attractive, and functional countertop surfaces for a century. Their lasting success in a competitive industry is testament to their quality craftsmanship and customer service. Formica countertops are an affordable way to reinvent your kitchen counter surfaces using a traditional, transitional, or modern look. With over 200 colors and styles to choose from, there is a Formica option for every visual palette.