Because the Dipsy Diver is directional, it gives you the following advantages not obtainable with other divers or planers: . It doubles your trolling area, as indicated in the illustration, and lures are thus exposed to fish, which might not have otherwise seen them. . Rig your Dipsy for fishing as shown in the illustration allowing at least 4 to 6 feet of leader between the diver and lure or, when using a dodger, have at least 48 of leader between it and the diver.
One of the big tricks you can do to increase your depth and fish catching using Dipsy Divers are to use braid. I wouldn’t use anything but braid when fishing with Dipsy Divers and the braid I prefer is 30lb PowerPro. I get the spools with 150 yards on them then use 30lb Stren Big Game for backing. To connect the 30lb backing to the 30lb PowerPro I use an Improved Albright knot to link the two lines together. One of the great things about Dipsy Divers is the ability to set them to swing out out away from the boat using the setscrew and weight underneath the Dipsy. Just loosen the setscrew and move the weight to the left or right depending on which way you want the Dipsy to swing. Here are my settings for fishing 4 rods.
Dipsy Divers were a product manufactured by Luhr Jensen and Sons in Hood River Oregon. Luhr Jensen sold their company to Normark, the Rapala folks who, in turn promptly moved Dipsy production to China. Let's start with the principles of how divers work and what a tremendous tool they've become in Salmon fishing. First of all, a diver is a mechanism that attains depth by water pressure forcing it down. You can fish divers to 100 feet plus and it's often been referred to as the 'poor man's downrigger'.
I show you how to use a dipsy diver and real fishing for trout with a dipsy diver on a lake. 
A Dipsy Diver is a simple to use device for anglers who want to troll without using a downrigger. The Dipsy Diver is a plastic disc with a weighted bottom that can be adjusted to dive port, starboard, or straight behind your boat. Luhr Jensen, the maker of the Dipsy Diver, has designed several options of the device that dive to various depths. Once you’re all set with your bait and the dipsy diver, lower the diver to just under the surface. This setup is perfect for reels with line counters on them. You’ll be able to accurately determine how deep your dipsy diver is with a line counter.
Author: Luhr-Jensen. The directional Dipsy Diver is the most advanced trolling sinker available today. Its round shape allows for multi-directional trolling and also facilitates (with a special O-Ring) instant changes in diving capability, providing the angler with two different size divers in one. Rig your Dipsy for fishing as shown in the illustration allowing at least 4 to 6 feet of leader between the diver and lure or, when using a dodger, have at least 48 of leader between it and the diver.
Luhr Jensen Dipsy Divers are the standard for directional diving planers. The special round shape and resulting multi-directional feature set these Dipsy Divers apart from other divers and planers. This feature is made possible by the molded-in base plate weight that can be rotated in degrees.
Fishing with Dipsy Divers. If you plan to fish with Dipsy Divers you’re going to need some rods and reels that are specifically designed for fishing with Divers. Dipsy Diver rods are 9 and 10-foot rods and the reels are level wind line counter reels. The rods and reels combos can cost around $80 to $200 depending on what you want to spend, I always go the cheap route for my Dipsy Diver combos and have had no real major problems yet. One of the great things about Dipsy Divers is the ability to set them to swing out out away from the boat using the setscrew and weight underneath the Dipsy. Just loosen the setscrew and move the weight to the left or right depending on which way you want the Dipsy to swing. Here are my settings for fishing 4 rods.
Dipsy Diver. The Dipsy Diver, sometimes wrongfuly spelled Dipsey Diver, is a diver from Luhr-Jensen which goes from 10′ (3 m) tp 100 ‘ (30 m). It is very easy to use and for most of them the auto-release system helps to fight the fishes. It is a light and cheap replacement solution for any down rigg