Uses. This medication is used to treat certain mental/mood conditions (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, sudden episodes of mania or depression associated with bipolar disorder). It is also used with other medications to treat depression. Quetiapine is known as an anti-psychotic drug (atypical type). How to use Seroquel XR. Read the Medication Guide and, if available, the Patient Information Leaflet provided by your pharmacist before you start using quetiapine and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Quetiapine (/kwɨˈtaɪ.əpiːn/ kwi-TY-ə-peen) (developed and marketed as Seroquel by AstraZeneca) is an atypical antipsychotic approved for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and along with an antidepressant to treat major depressive disorder. The sustained-release quetiapine is marketed mainly as Seroquel XR. Other marketing names are Seroquel Prolong, Seroquel Depot and Seroquel XL. On May 18, 2007, AstraZeneca announced that the U.S. FDA approved Seroquel XR for acute treatment of schizophrenia.
Quetiapine sustained-release is used to treat certain mental/ mood disorders (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, sudden episodes of mania or depression associated with bipolar disorder). It is also used with other medications to treat depression. How to use Seroquel XR. Read the Medication Guide and, if available, the Patient Information Leaflet provided by your pharmacist before you start using quetiapine and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
Quetiapine is a medication that works in the brain to treat schizophrenia. It is also known as a second generation antipsychotic (SGA) or atypical antipsychotic. Quetiapine rebalances dopamine and serotonin to improve thinking, mood, and behavior. Symptoms of schizophrenia include: 
Doses of Seroquel XR for schizophrenia range from 300 to 800 mg/day. Seroquel XR for bipolar disorder range from 300 to 800 mg/day and is used with adjunct therapy with Eskalith, Lithobid (lithium), or divalproex. Common side effects of Seroquel XR include headache, agitation, dizziness, drowsiness, tired feeling, increased appetite, weight gain, stomach pain or upset, nausea, vomiting, constipation, dry mouth, sore throat, breast swelling or discharge, or missed menstrual periods.
This medication is not approved to treat schizophrenia or bipolar disorder in children. Seroquel XR ® (quetiapine XR) is a prescription medicine known as an  atypical antipsychotic  that has been licensed to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. When used in combination with an antidepressant, it is also approved for depression treatment. It is a long-acting medication that is taken just once a day. Although the drug can help control the symptoms of these conditions, it is not a cure. Seroquel XR ® (quetiapine XR) is a prescription medicine known as an  atypical antipsychotic  that has been licensed to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
Quetiapine XR is used for treating schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and depression in adults. Quetiapine XR (Seroquel XR ®) is a prescription medicine known as an  atypical antipsychotic  that has been licensed to treat bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. When combined with an antidepressant, it is also approved for treating depression. It is a long-acting medication that is taken just once a day. An Overview of Quetiapine XR Uses. Bipolar disorder, also known as manic depression, is a serious brain disease that causes extreme shifts in mood, energy, and functioning.
Recently, Seroquel XR was also approved for use as a depression treatment (when taken with an antidepressant). Seroquel XR ® (quetiapine XR) is a prescription medicine known as an  atypical antipsychotic  that has been licensed to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. When used in combination with an antidepressant, it is also approved for depression treatment. It is a long-acting medication that is taken just once a day. Although the drug can help control the symptoms of these conditions, it is not a cure. Seroquel XR ® (quetiapine XR) is a prescription medicine known as an  atypical antipsychotic  that has been licensed to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.