In June 2011, the first location under the name Sonic Beach was opened in Homestead, Florida. A second location, opened in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, in November 2011, lacks the usual drive-in stalls due to its beach-side location. Both locations also include outdoor seating and flatscreen televisions. The new name worked with their existing slogan, Service with the Speed of Sound. After the name change, the first Sonic sign was installed at the Stillwater Top-Hat Drive-In; this was the first of three Sonics that would eventually exist in Stillwater. The original Sonic to carry the first sign was demolished May of 2015
It's free! In 1953, the prototype of the first SONIC Drive-In opened in Shawnee, Okla. Now, more than 50 years and 3,500 drive-ins later, SONIC enjoys the highest customer frequency rate in the quick-service restaurant industry. Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. In 1953, the prototype of the first SONIC Drive-In opened in Shawnee, Okla. Now, more than 50 years and 3,500 drive-ins later, SONIC enjoys the highest customer frequency rate in the quick-service restaurant industry.
New Page 1. The first Drive-in named Sonic but not his first drive-in. 1953 Troy Smith opens his first Top Hat Drive-In in Shawnee, Okla., featuring an intercom speaker system for ordering and Carhop delivery service. 1956 Charles Pappe partners with Smith and opens the second Top Hat in Woodward, Okla. 1959 Due to copyright issues with the Top Hat name, drive-ins are renamed SONIC Drive-In for Service with the Speed of Sound .. In June, the Stillwater drive-in is the first to change its name to SONIC. Post a picture of yourself with the America's First Sonic sign
Answer by Least Duck. Confidence votes 69.8K. All you need is love, Love-Love is all you need. No. The first Sonic Drive-in was originally called Troy's Pan Full of Chicken, then it was changed to Top Hat. Upon learning that the Top Hat name was already trademarked, Smith and Pappe changed the name to Sonic, in 1959. Their slogan was: Service with the speed of sound
General Info: SONIC Drive-In, also known as SONIC, is a chain of fast food restaurants that opened its first outlet in Oklahoma in 1953. It operates more than 3,000 drive-in restaurants throughout the United States and also offers carhop services and made-to-order meals.