You probably won't return to your pre-pregnancy weight for some time, but you will lose a significant amount of weight immediately after delivery. Subtracting one 7- to 8-pound baby, about a pound or so of placenta, and another few pounds of blood and amniotic fluid leaves most new moms about 12 pounds lighter. The weight keeps coming off, too. All the extra water your cells retained during pregnancy, along with fluid from the extra blood you had in your pregnant body, will be looking for a way out. So you'll produce more urine than usual in the days after birth – an astounding 3 quarts a day. You may perspire a lot, too.
During pregnancy, you will gain up to 40 lbs., depending on your pre-pregnancy weight. A lot of this is shed immediately as you give birth and your body no longer needs the placenta or amniotic fluid, but you will still be heavier than you were pre-pregnancy. If this figure is below 18.5 you are underweight, and can expect to gain 28 to 40 lbs. during pregnancy, according to babycentre.co.uk. If your BMI is between 18.5 and 24.9 you are of average weight and should gain between 25 and 35 lbs.
Weight Gained During Pregnancy. The amount of weight you put on during pregnancy depends on your normal body mass index (BMI), which is determined by dividing your weight in pounds by your height in inches. If this figure is below 18.5 you are underweight, and can expect to gain 28 to 40 lbs. during pregnancy, according to babycentre.co.uk. If your BMI is between 18.5 and 24.9 you are of average weight and should gain between 25 and 35 lbs.
It takes 40 weeks to put on all this weight, and it could take another 40 weeks to lose it in a healthy way. In the first two weeks, you will probably lose 8 to 20 lbs. as your body clears out excess fluid, and after that a pound or two a week is a healthy rate at which to lose weight. If this figure is below 18.5 you are underweight, and can expect to gain 28 to 40 lbs. during pregnancy, according to babycentre.co.uk. If your BMI is between 18.5 and 24.9 you are of average weight and should gain between 25 and 35 lbs.
Keyword Tags: Fertility pregnancy weight loss weight loss fertility diet. Our 12 step program explains how you can lose weight and improve your chances getting pregnant. 1  Know Your Goal Weight: The goal weight or the amount of weight you need to lose will tell you how much time it will take to lose the weight.
– Seven to eight pounds of baby. So, during delivery, you should lose the weight of the baby, the placenta, the amniotic fluid, and perhaps some blood and water. Much of the rest of your weight is still there, and will be for some time after delivery. Of course, only a portion of pregnancy weight gain is actually lost during delivery. To understand this, it is important to know where the weight you gain during pregnancy comes from. A woman who is of an average weight before pregnancy should gain between 25 and 30 pounds during pregnancy. Here is how this weight is broken down: – Three pounds of blood. – Two pounds in your breasts