In the following table, you can find a list of programs that can open files with .fcm extension.This list is created by collecting extension information reported by users through the 'send report' option of FileTypesMan utility. 
The FCM file type is primarily associated with 'Factory Commander' by Wright Williams & Kelly, Inc.. Factory Commander is a Cost and Resource Evaluation software platform that can be applied to any discrete manufacturing or assembly operation. 
The FCM extension is used to identify data files used on the Factory Commander software application. Factory Commander is a factory management tool used by manufacturers to meet goals and improve operations. FCM files contain data regarding cost analysis, assembly details and manufacturing techniques and processes.FCM data files are used to experiment with and create new manufacturing plans and improve performance.
Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your FCM file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your FCM file. Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a FCM file related error message. Before you can open a FCM file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the FCM file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect FCM file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system
Comments. Turn your SVG and FCM files into ScanNCut files with Canvas! Exciting news for all you who have been wondering what to do with all the great SVG and FCM die cut files you already own...Brother has developed the cloud-based ScanNCut Canvas to go along with your ScanNCut™ ! And it's FREE! -Thank you Brother!!
FCM files are also associated with FC-M Packer Song/Module, Fluke Networks CableManager File, FCEUX FCE-Ultra Movie Capture, Factory Commander Model Data File (Wright Williams & Kelly Inc.) and FileViewPro. Additional types of files may also be using the FCM file extension. If you are aware of any other file formats using the FCM file extension, please contact us so that we can update our information accordingly. Windows might tell you that you can't open it, or in the worst case, you might encounter a FCM file related error message. Before you can open a FCM file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the FCM file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect FCM file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system
While we do not yet have a description of the FCM file format and what it is normally used for, we do know which programs are known to open these files. See the list of programs recommended by our users below. In addition to the products listed above, I would suggest that you try a universal file viewer like Free File Viewer. It can open over 200 different types of files-and very likely yours too » Free Download.
File type specification: Binary file type. The fcm file extension is associated with the jlpak10.zip file and disk management utility for MS-DOS operating system developed by Simtel in 1990. The fcm file stores binary patch used by jlpak10.zip program. This fcm file type entry was marked as obsolete and no longer supported file format
Program has been verified to work with FCM files. Every day, thousands of users submit information to us about which programs they use to open certain types of files. Our users primarily use the above programs to open FCM files. In addition to the products listed above, I would suggest that you try a universal file viewer like Free File Viewer. It can open over 200 different types of files-and very likely yours too » Free Download.