Solar panels use sun which is a renewable energy source naturally. Fossil fuels cause pollution, and there is a finite amount of fossil fuels on the earth. http://www.homes-energy-efficient.com/so... Source(s): http://www.homes-energy-efficient.com/so... Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Solar Panels are powered by renewable energy. It captures sun radiation and transform it to energy DC (direct current) then with help of inverter energy is transformed to AC (alternative current) Solar panels do not create any pollution during process of creating energy. They are pollution free
Solar energy is good for the environment because it is a renewable  source of energy. When solar panels are used to store the energy  from the sun, they are harmless to the … environment creating no  pollution. Answered. solar energy provides a heat source for all living things on earth. we also transfer solar heat into electricity and other types of energy, using solar panels. however, only a … portion of the suns energy makes it to earths surface because the ionosphere reflects some of the rays back into space.
By using solar power That is power gained directly from the sun you are not introducing harmful gases into the air that are produced in the normal system of burning fossil fuels etc to run generators. You must keep in mind that the production of the hardware required also involves the production of pollutants. Solar power helps lower the amount of fossil fuels we use, therefore saving our supply of fossil fuels. It also cuts down on the pollution that goes up into the air when we bu … rn fossil fuels. This helps lower global warming and gives us fresh air to breathe. That is how solar power helps the environment.
Energy usage jumps during summer months due to air conditioners -- but that same solar energy that warms the country can be captured and used to power those devices. At this point, though, solar power accounts for only around 1 percent of electricity generation. It will take years of concentrated effort by the government and by private investors to make the most of solar power's potential. From an energy security and sustainability perspective, it seems logical to make the most of solar power technologies. There are multiple technologies used to create electricity from solar energy. Many homes and businesses install photovoltaic panels, which absorb sunlight and use semiconductors to create usable energy. Larger complexes use panels, too, but others deploy concentrated solar power, which uses lenses or mirrors focused to a small area, where the tremendous heat is turned into electricity
A great deal of this energy consumption pollutes our air and water, and it creates hazardous wastes that require disposal. Solar panels help eliminate this pollution by capturing the energy of the sun and using that energy to power common household devices such as lights and heaters. Understanding the effects of traditional energy sources like coal and oil helps people understand the ways that solar panels help to protect the environment. 
Solar panels use only the sun's energy to produce energy we can use. They collect the sun's rays and store them in a battery or send them on to the grid. Basically, they use a … more environmentally friendly energy source. Solar panels conserve energy and help the planet from global warming. solar energy provides a heat source for all living things on earth. we also transfer solar heat into electricity and other types of energy, using solar panels. however, only a … portion of the suns energy makes it to earths surface because the ionosphere reflects some of the rays back into space.
Best Answer: &nbsp the solar energy is a type of conservative energy and can be use daily. it is pollution-less.the energy's like thermal and nuclear energy's are likely but they are very much bad for environment.the remain dust of nuclear reactors have no solution how it can be removed from the earth. So Solar energy is best.
Power your home with clean energy. Solar power systems derive clean, pure energy from the sun. Installing solar panels on your home helps combat greenhouse gas emissions and reduces our collective dependence on fossil fuel. Traditional electricity is sourced from fossil fuels such as coal and natural gas. When fossil fuels are burned to create energy, they emit toxic gases that are the primary cause of pollution and global warming. Not only are fossil fuels bad for the environment, they're a finite resource. Limited availability creates a volatile market in which energy prices can skyrocket in a short period of time