Freshwater fish may be either coldwater or tropical species. Although freshwater aquariums can be set up as community tanks, coldwater and tropical fish are generally not mixed due to incompatibilities in temperature requirements. Coldwater aquariums house goldfish and other species that do not require a heating apparatus. For a tropical fish tank, maintaining a warm environmental temperature ranging between 75 to 80 °F (24 to 27 °C) enables the fish to thrive. Aquariums may be decorated with sand or gravel, live or plastic plants, driftwood, rocks, and a variety of commercially made plastic sculptures.
Not only is temperature important for your fish but also for the plants you put in your aquarium. Close attention to keeping your temperature in the right range will ensure you have a thriving freshwater aquarium. Temperature Ranges. Most tropical fish prefer a temperature range of 72 to 79 degrees. Most people who operate tropical fish aquariums will keep their tanks at a constant 77 degrees. Other fish, such as Goldfish, will require cooler temperatures that range from 52 to 65 degrees. So mixing Goldfish with freshwater tropical fish will not lead to a successful conclusion. Keeping fish at their ideal temperature will help keep your fish happy and healthy.
For typical freshwater fish, the temp in my aquariums is between 70 and 78 F. There are others that require higher or lower temps, for instance blind cave fish can take 63-75 F, and Bettas as high as 70-85 F. Saltwater aquarium fish typically come from the tropics, so 75-80 F is best. Each species will have an ideal range of temperatures. You should research every specie you keep and do it before purchasing. If your water change schedule keeps the nutrient levels low enough that you can avoid heavy algae growth,the photoperiod in the tropics is always 12 hours of light and 12 hours of darkness.
Tropical fish are those that require heated water, generally in the range of 75-80°F (24-27°C). Because many homes are not kept in that temperature range day and night, these fish require a heated aquarium. Water Changes. A simple water change can impact the temperature significantly, depending on the tank size and volume of water changed. Small water changes are always preferable to large changes, and the temperature of the water used should be tested to ensure it closely matches the water temperature of the aquarium.
Chlorine and Chloramine is a common disinfectant in tap water and is very harmful to fish gills and invertebrates. Add AquaSafe to all tap water before adding to your aquarium. Also adjust the water temperature to match your aquarium before adding. 1 teaspoon (5 ml) Tetra AquaSafe per 5 gallons aquarium water. Excess waste, like excess food, gives off ammonia and nitrites. You should have one gallon of water per one inch of (mature) tropical fish. Have three gallons of water per one inch of goldfish. It is best to buy the largest aquarium you can afford.
Cold water fish do better in temperatures well below that, some of them enjoy water well below 70°F, which is not suitable for any tropical fish. Ultimately the best temperature will depend on the species of fish in the aquarium. Water Changes. A simple water change can impact the temperature significantly, depending on the tank size and volume of water changed. Small water changes are always preferable to large changes, and the temperature of the water used should be tested to ensure it closely matches the water temperature of
Common fish sold as coldwater fish like goldfish like the mid 60s to low 70s F. Many tropicals like in the mid 70s to low 80s F and this is the more common temperature for most of the regular tropical freshwater fish you see in stores, but not ideal for all tropicals. Some, like discus, like the mid 80s. Report Abuse. The ideal temp. for freshwater fish is 77 F but can range from 72 degrees F to 82 degrees F. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/about_4586638_temper...
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There is no ideal temperature that would accommodate all fish. The ideal temperature for an aquarium would be a temperature in the ideal range of the species you select. Report Abuse. The ideal temp. for freshwater fish is 77 F but can range from 72 degrees F to 82 degrees F. Source(s): http://www.ehow.com/about_4586638_temper...
If you are thinking about or all ready have a tropical freshwater aquarium, the temperature should be kept at 77 degrees. Check with your sales representative at your local fish store for the best temperatures to keep your fish and live plants. Other fish, such as Goldfish, will require cooler temperatures that range from 52 to 65 degrees. So mixing Goldfish with freshwater tropical fish will not lead to a successful conclusion. Keeping fish at their ideal temperature will help keep your fish happy and healthy.
Each type of aquarium has it’s own benefits and species of fish unique to the water temperature of your tank. Generally, heated aquariums offer more varieties of fish to choose from. Once you’ve decided, here’s a list of ten of the best freshwater aquarium fish for beginners. 