Animal Cell Structure Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Unlike the eukaryotic cells of plants and fungi, animal cells do not have a cell wall. This feature was lost in the distant past by the single-celled organisms that gave rise to the kingdom Animalia.
Eukaryotic cells are typically much larger than those of prokaryotes. They have a variety of internal membrane-bound structures, called organelles, and a cytoskeleton composed of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermediate filaments, which play an important role in defining the cell's organization and shape. The presence of a nucleus gives eukaryotes their name, which comes from the Greek ευ (eu, well) and κάρυον (karyon, nut or kernel). Eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria and the Golgi apparatus. In addition, plants and algae contain chloroplasts. Eukaryotic organisms may be unicellular, or multicellular. Only eukaryotes have many kinds of tissue made up of different cell types
The nucleus, the largest organelle in eukaryotic cells, is surrounded by two membranes, each one a phospholipid bilayer containing many different types of proteins. The inner nuclear membrane defines the nucleus itself. The various techniques described earlier have led to an appreciation of the highly organized internal structure of eukaryotic cells, marked by the presence of many different organelles (Figures 5-42 and 5-43). Here we present a brief overview of the major organelles.
In addition to the nucleus, eukaryotic cells may contain several other types of organelles, which may include mitochondria, chloroplasts, the endoplasmic reticulum, the Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Each of these organelles performs a specific function critical to the cell's survival. Moreover, nearly all eukaryotic organelles are separated from the rest of the cellular space by a membrane, in much the same way that interior walls separate the rooms in a house. In eukaryotes, however, the DNA takes the form of compact chromosomes separated from the rest of the cell by a nuclear membrane (also called a nuclear envelope). Eukaryotic cells also contain a variety of structures and organelles not present in prokaryotic cells.
Organelles are specialized membrane-enclosed structures in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. The nucleus, which contains DNA in the form of chromosomes, is the most characteristic eukaryotic organelle. The nuclear envelope is connected to a system of membranes in the; cytoplasm called the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). 
Organelles have a wide range of responsibilities that include everything from generating energy for a cell to controlling the cell's growth and reproduction. Eukaryotic cells are cells with a nucleus. The nucleus is an organelle that is surrounded by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope separates the contents of the nucleus from the rest of the cell. Eukaryotic cells also have a cell membrane (plasma membrane), cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and various cellular organelles. 1 Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. 3  Mitochondria-as the cell's power producers, mitochondria convert energy into forms that are usable by the cell.
Examples of organelles found in plant cells and animal cells include: Prokaryotic cells have a structure that is less complex than eukaryotic cells. They do not have a nucleus or region where the DNA is bound by a membrane. Prokaryotic DNA is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid. 1 Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. 3  Mitochondria-as the cell's power producers, mitochondria convert energy into forms that are usable by the cell.
Besides the nucleus, two other organelles — the mitochondrion and the chloroplast — play an especially important role in eukaryotic cells. These specialized structures are enclosed by double membranes, and they are believed to have originated back when all living things on Earth were single-celled organisms. In eukaryotes, however, the DNA takes the form of compact chromosomes separated from the rest of the cell by a nuclear membrane (also called a nuclear envelope). Eukaryotic cells also contain a variety of structures and organelles not present in pro