The lymphatic system is a network of very small tubes (or vessels) that drain lymph fluid from all over the body. The major parts of the lymph tissue are located in the bone marrow, spleen, thymus gland, lymph nodes, and the tonsils. The heart, lungs, intestines, liver, and skin also contain lymphatic tissue. Most of the lymph nodes are found in clusters in the neck, armpit, and groin area. Nodes are also located along the lymphatic pathways in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, where they filter the blood. Inside the lymph nodes, lymphocytes called T-cells and B-cells help the body fight infection.
Plasma is the fluid part of blood and makes up the bulk of the volume. It contains substances that can be used to treat a number of different conditions. Blood is made up of four separate components, which each perform a different function. They are: 1  red blood cells-carry oxygen around the body and remove carbon dioxide. 2  white blood cells-help the body fight infection. 3  platelets-tiny cells that trigger the process that causes the blood to clot (thicken). Albumin. Albumin cleans the blood, carries substances around the body, and helps maintain the correct amount of fluid circulating in the body. Human albumin solution can be used as a treatment to help people with severe burns, sepsis, liver disease or kidney disease.
The lymphatic system has three functions: 1  The removal of excess fluids from body tissues. 2  This process is crucial because water, proteins, and other substances are continuously leaking out of tiny blood capillaries into the surrounding body tissues. Most of the lymph nodes are found in clusters in the neck, armpit, and groin area. Nodes are also located along the lymphatic pathways in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, where they filter the blood. Inside the lymph nodes, lymphocytes called T-cells and B-cells help the body fight infection.
It contains proteins, fats, salt, and other substances. Some of the proteins are important in blood clotting. The blood cells are red cells, white cells, and platelets. Red blood cells carry oxygen to all parts of the body. White blood cells help fight infection. Platelets are tiny cells that have a big job in stopping bleeding. 
White blood cell: One of the cells the body makes to help fight infections. There are several types of white blood cells (leukocytes). The two most common types are the lymphocytes and neutrophils (also called polymorphonuclear leukocytes, PMNs, or polys). 
Red blood cells (erythrocytes). These carry oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. White blood cells (leukocytes). These help fight infections and aid in the immune process. Types of white blood cells include: Lymphocytes. Monocytes. Eosinophils. Basophils. Neutrophils. Platelets (thrombocytes).
But the lymphatic system tubes are much finer and carry a colourless liquid called lymph. Lymph contains a high number of a type of white blood cells called lymphocytes that fight infection and destroy damaged or abnormal cells. As the blood circulates around the body, fluid leaks out from the blood vessels into the body tissues. This fluid carries food to the cells and bathes the body tissues to form tissue fluid. The fluid then collects waste products, bacteria, and damaged cells.
The spleen, which is located in the upper left part of the abdomen under the ribcage, works as part of the lymphatic system to protect the body, clearing worn out red blood cells and other foreign bodies from the bloodstream to help fight off infection. Most of the lymph nodes are found in clusters in the neck, armpit, and groin area. Nodes are also located along the lymphatic pathways in the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, where they filter the blood. Inside the lymph nodes, lymphocytes called T-cells and B-cells help the body fight
• Platelets, smaller cells that help blood to clot. Blood is conducted through blood vessels (arteries and veins). Blood is prevented from clotting in the blood vessels by their smoothness, and the finely tuned balance of clotting factors. A liquid called plasma makes up about half of the content of blood. Plasma contains proteins that help blood to clot, transport substances through the blood, and perform other functions.
Red blood cells, platelets, and plasma proteins cannot pass through the walls of the capillaries. The resulting mixture that does pass through is, in essence, blood plasma without the plasma proteins. Tissue fluid also contains some types of white blood cell, which help combat infection. 