Skin lesions have a wide variety of causes. The most common causes of skin lesions are injury, aging, infectious diseases, allergies, and small infections of the skin or hair follicles. Chronic diseases such as diabetes or autoimmune disorders can cause skin lesions. Skin cancer or precancerous changes also appear as skin lesions. Common causes of skin lesions. Changes in the appearance of the skin can result from common conditions such as: 1  Acne. 2  Boils and carbuncles. 3  Folliculitis. 4  Freckles. 5  Nevi (moles) and other benign skin growths.
Skin lesions can be caused by an immune response to the infection (usually a rash called erythema nodosum or erythema multiforme), or by the fungus itself when it spreads to the skin. Widespread infection is most common in immunosuppressed people, such as those with AIDS or cancer, or those who have had a transplant. 
Most skin lesions are benign; however, some concern has caused the patient to make an inquiry, and a correct diagnosis is important. The plethora of dermatologic conditions makes a correct diagnosis challenging. To combat this, the clinician must approach the evaluation of the lesion in a systematic way. The accurate diagnosis of any skin lesions can be made by histologic examination of a skin biopsy. However, clinicians must gain the clinical acumen to correctly identify common benign skin lesions and to distinguish those skin conditions that do need a biopsy and possible further treatment.
Warts are caused by a virus that is transmitted by touch. A systemic infection (an infection that occurs throughout your body), such as chicken pox or shingles can cause skin lesions all over your body. Some skin lesions are hereditary, such as moles and freckles. Birthmarks are lesions that exist at the time of birth. 1 They are typically the result of acne, boils, or impetigo. 2  rash: lesions that cover small or large areas of skin. 3  They can be caused by an allergic reaction. 4  A common allergic reaction rash occurs when someone touches poison ivy. 5  wheals: skin lesions caused by an allergic reaction.
Skin cancer and precancerous changes in the skin are more serious causes of skin lesions. These lesions most commonly appear on areas of your body that have been exposed to sun, including your face, arms and hands. A skin lesion is any change in the normal character of your skin. A skin lesion may occur on any part of your body and cover a tiny or large area.
The most common secondary skin lesions include: 1  crust: a crust, or a scab, is created when dried blood forms over a scratched and irritated skin lesion. 2  ulcer: typically caused by a bacterial infection or physical trauma. 3  scale: patches of skin cells that build up and then fall off the skin. 1 They are typically the result of acne, boils, or impetigo. 2  rash: lesions that cover small or large areas of skin. 3  They can be caused by an allergic reaction. 4  A common allergic reaction rash occurs when someone touches poison ivy. 5  wheals: skin lesions caused by an allergic reaction.
Approximately two-thirds of people with lupus will develop some type of skin disease, called cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Skin disease in lupus can cause rashes or sores (lesions), most of which will appear on sun-exposed areas such as the face, ears, neck, arms, and legs. 40-70 percent of people with lupus will find that their disease is made worse by exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays from sunlight or artificial light.
Two types of skin lesions exist: primary and secondary. Primary skin lesions are abnormal skin conditions present at birth or acquired over one’s lifetime. Birthmarks are primary skin lesions. Other types include: 1  blisters: also called vesicles; these are small lesions filled with a clear fluid. 1 They are typically the result of acne, boils, or impetigo. 2  rash: lesions that cover small or large areas of skin. 3  They can be caused by an allergic reaction. 4  A common allergic reaction rash occurs when someone touches poison ivy. 5  wheals: skin lesions caused by an allergic reaction.
Illness-related causes of skin lesions. Skin lesions may be caused by another illness including: Bacterial infection, such as scarlet fever, or meningococcal meningitis, a serious condition caused by group A Streptococcus, can cause a skin rash. Common causes of skin lesions. Changes in the appearance of the skin can result from common conditions such as: 1  Acne. 2  Boils and carbuncles. 3  Folliculitis. 4  Freckles. 5  Nevi (moles) and other benign skin growths.