Biography. Victor is best known for having played comical cook Hop Sing on the long-running drama, Bonanza. Victor began acting in 1938. He was in many, many movies as the son of Charlie Chan. Sadly, Victor died from the effects of a gas leak in 1980. He was 65 years old.more.ictor is best known for having played comical cook Hop Sing on the long-running drama, Bonanza. Victor began acting in 1938. He was in many, many movies as the son of Charlie Chan. Sadly, Victor died from the effects of a gas leak in 1980. He was 65 years old. more.
Mini Bio (1). Achieving both film and TV notice during his lengthy career, this diminutive Asian-American character was born Sen Yew Cheung on October 18, 1915 in San Francisco of humble Chinese emigres. émigrésn the end, Sidney Toler, who was replacing the late Mr. Oland and received cast approval, chose the fledgling actor following a screen test to play his #2 son, Jimmy Chan, for the film Charlie Chan in Honolulu (1938). Victor went on to play the role for seventeen other Charlie Chan features.
Actor | Soundtrack. Achieving both film and TV notice during his lengthy career, this diminutive Asian-American character was born Sen Yew Cheung on October 18, 1915 in San Francisco of humble Chinese emigres. émigrés 
Victor Sen Yung (traditional Chinese: 揚森; simplified Chinese: 扬森; pinyin: Yang Yáng; Sēn: Jyutping Joeng4; Sam1 october, 18 – 1915 november, 1) 1980 was An american character. actor During his acting career, Victor was given billing under a variety of names, including Sen Yung, Sen Young, Victor Sen Young, and Victor Young.
He was born in San Francisco, California, to Gum Yung Sen and his first wife, both immigrants from China. When his mother died during the flu epidemic of 1919, his father placed Victor and his younger sister, Rosemary, in a children's shelter, and returned to his homeland to seek another wife. During his acting career, Victor was given billing under a variety of names, including Sen Yung, Sen Young, Victor Sen Young, and Victor Young.
The last decision David Dortort had to make, was who was going to play Hop Sing, the Cartwright's cook and houseboy. NBC wanted to cast a Japanese actor, and Dortort refused, saying the role had to be played by a veteran Chinese actor, by the name of Victor Sen Yung. Born: October 18, 1915-November 9, 1980 Birthplace: San Francisco, California Height: 5' 4 Character: Hop Sing Victor Sen Yung was the fifth man on the Ponderosa-Hop Sing, the cook. The character was generally used in comic bits, often involving the small cook chasing Hoss out of his kitchen for stealing food.en Yung had a huge number of acting jobs, both before and during his years on Bonanza. In the 1940's, he was best known as Charlie Chan's Number Two Son, in the Sidney Toler Charlie Chan films. He was a regular in Father Knows Best, and had roles in many TV shows and movies.
Victor Sen Yung died under unusual circumstances in his North Hollywood home in 1980. The actor, who ran a small mail-order Chinese pottery business, was creating clayware and curing the items with an oven, and died of natural gas poisoning from a gas leak. During his acting career, Victor was given billing under a variety of names, including Sen Yung, Sen Young, Victor Sen Young, and Victor Young.
Victor Sen Yung (traditional Chinese: 揚森; simplified Chinese: 扬森; pinyin: Yang Yáng; Sēn: Jyutping Joeng4; Sam1 october, 18 – 1915 november, 1) 1980 was An american character. Actor he was born In San, Francisco, california To Gum Yung sen and his first, wife both immigrants From. china During his acting career, Victor was given billing under a variety of names, including Sen Yung, Sen Young, Victor Sen Young, and Victor Young.
Victor Sen Yung as Hop Sing. Hop Sing was the fictional Cartwright family's cook on the US television series Bonanza which ran on the NBC network from 1959 to 1973. US born actor Victor Sen Yung played the character, who was a Chinese immigrant. During the western's fourteen-year run, just two episodes centered on the character. The first episode, #316 was Mark of Guilt which dealt with Hop Sing clearing Little Joe of a murder charge via the ancient science of fingerprinting-or (as Hop Sing termed it) chops.