Requirements for becoming a preschool teacher rely heavily on the school's location, though all states require licensure and training in early education. A minimum of a high school diploma or associate's is often required, however most preschool teachers for public schools must earn a bachelor's. A Child Development Associate (CDA) certificate is a common credential that is required by many states. CPR and first aid certification may also be required. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a preschool teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about education, job duties and certification requirements to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Many preschool teachers have a minimum of an associate's degree; however, a bachelor's degree and teacher certification may be required in certain states. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov), an increasing number of employers are requiring preschool teachers to have an associate's degree. Some preschools, such as the government-based Head Start program, already have mandatory requirements for teachers to hold
Requirements for public preschool teachers are generally more stringent than those for private preschool teachers. Some States require a bachelor's degree in early childhood education, while others require an associate's degree, and still others require certification by a nationally recognized authority. Preschool teachers usually work their way up from assistant teacher, to teacher, to lead teacher-who may be responsible for the instruction of several classes-and, finally, to director of the center. Preschool teachers with a bachelor's degree frequently are qualified to teach kindergarten through grade 3 as well.
Educational Requirements for Preschool Teachers. Education requirements to become a preschool teacher vary. Public schools require at least a bachelor's degree; while an associate's degree or high school diploma is acceptable for some child care centers. In many cases, preschool teachers start out as assistant teachers.
Some employers prefer to hire preschool teachers with associate's degrees in early education or child development. For example, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports that preschool teachers employed by Head Start, a Federal program for preschool children, must hold at least associate's degrees (www.bls.gov). Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a preschool teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about education, job duties and certification requirements to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
In public schools, preschool teachers are generally required to have at least a bachelor’s degree in early childhood education or a related field. Bachelor’s degree programs teach students about children’s development, strategies to teach young children, and how to observe and document children’s progress. Preschool teachers in Head Start programs are required to have at least an associate’s degree. However, at least 50 percent of all preschool teachers in Head Start programs nationwide must have a bachelor’s degree in early childhood education or a related field.
Preschool teachers help young learners prepare for kindergarten through interactive play and games. Employment as a preschool teacher in a public school requires a bachelor's degree. However, some child care centers employ qualified teachers with a high school diploma and certification or an associate's degree. Public schools require at least a bachelor's degree; while an associate's degree or high school diploma is acceptable for some child care centers. In many cases, preschool teachers start out as assistant teachers.
Bachelor's Degree. Earning a bachelor's degree in early childhood education can qualify you to teach preschool through third grade. Through bachelor's degree programs, you take early childhood development courses, such as child behavior and cognitive development, and gain experience with student teaching. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS, www.bls.gov), an increasing number of employers are requiring preschool teachers to have an associate's degree. Some preschools, such as the government-based Head Start program, already have mandatory requirements for teachers to hold