In Alabama you have ten days after the foreclosure to move out in order to preserve your legal rights. If you move out within that ten day period Alabama law gives you the right to buy back the house for the amount that you owed at the time of the foreclosure. This is called a right of redemption.
If you’re in a nonjudicial foreclosure state, the lender does not have to go through the state court system to foreclose. In a nonjudicial foreclosure, you will receive: 1  a notice of default (followed by a notice of sale). 2  a combined notice of default and sale.
A common misconception for homeowners in foreclosure is that they have to move out of their house before the sheriff sale. When a county deputy or appointed county official posts a notice with the sale date near their door, they think that is the last date they can stay.
If the sale is delayed, you can stay until the sale (auction) is held. You own it until that day. If you stay after the foreclosure date, it will take the bank 30 days to evict you. Do not do this. If you have a foreclosure AND an eviction on your record, you won't be able to rent an apartment in the future.
Eviction After Foreclosure. After the public seller the homeowner receives a notice to vacate the property within, typically, five and 30 days. If you do not leave within that time time frame, a court may order an eviction notice. This allows the sheriff to physically remove you from the property.
If you don’t move out of the property within the time frame of the notice to quit, legal measures can be taken against you. A summons and complaint is issued and you have five days to respond. A trial is set for 21-days after the complaint is served and a legal eviction is recorded
1 If you and the lender have not worked out a plan to avoid foreclosure, the lender can record a Notice of Default in the county where your home is located, at least 30 days after contacting you for the foreclosure avoidance assessment. 2  This marks the beginning of the formal and public foreclosure process.
From start to finish, foreclosure can take many months. The process ends with an auction sale and a demand telling the homeowner to leave the property. The notice sets out how long you have to leave, typically between five and 30 days.
Even though the lender has begun the foreclosure process, you do not have to vacate the property yet. With both judicial and nonjudicial foreclosures, there is a period of time between notification of the foreclosure and the actual sale.