5. Calcium channel blockers: Possible side effects include heart palpitations, swelling of the ankles, constipation, headache, and dizziness. 6. Alpha blockers: Possible side effects include rapid heart rate, dizziness, and a drop in blood pressure when rising to a standing position. 7. There are many classes of blood pressure medications, which include both brand and generic names. The following side effects are listed by the American Heart Association and are broken down by medication class, not the specific medication name.
These high blood pressure medications flush extra water and sodium (salt) from your body. Diuretics may cause these side effects: 1  Extra urination. 2  Extra water out means more time in the bathroom. 3  Take these medications earlier in the day and when you're not far away from a bathroom. 4  Erection problems in some men. As an informed patient, read about the type of medication you are taking and its possible side effects. You can find a full list on your medication insert. To get you started, here is an overview of the most common side effects of high blood pressure medications.
Any medicine can have side-effects, and blood pressure medicines are no different. This does not mean that you will definitely have side-effects from your medicines. Most people who take blood ­pressure medicines will have no problems at all. Other people taking the same medicine may have no cough, but may feel dizzy or have an upset stomach. If you have problems with one medicine, this does not mean that all blood pressure medicines will give you side-effects. Other medicines may help your blood pressure with no difficulties at all.
Most people who take high blood pressure medicines do not get any side effects. Like all medicines, high blood pressure medicines can sometimes cause side effects. Some people have common problems like headaches, dizziness or an upset stomach. These problems are small compared to what could happen if you do not take your medicine. 
Central agonists: Possible side effects include a significant drop in blood pressure when rising to a standing position. This drop may cause weakness or fainting. In addition, this medication can cause drowsiness, dry mouth, fever, anemia, constipation, and impotence. 10. There are many classes of blood pressure medications, which include both brand and generic names. The following side effects are listed by the American Heart Association and are broken down by medication class, not the specific medication name.
Main Content: Side-effects of blood pressure medications. Blood pressure medication side effects. A side-effect is any unwanted effect of medicines that you are taking. Some people can have side-effects from blood pressure ­medicines. ­Although these can be uncomfortable, they are usually not dangerous. They sometimes wear off over time, or your doctor or nurse can adjust your medicines to get rid of them. Other people taking the same medicine may have no cough, but may feel dizzy or have an upset stomach. If you have problems with one medicine, this does not mean that all blood pressure medicines will give you side-effects. Other medicines may help your blood pressure with no difficulties at all.
A. A. A. Any medication can cause side effects, and high blood pressure (HBP) medications are no exception. However, many people do not have side effects from taking hypertension drugs, and often the side effects are mild. As an informed patient, read about the type of medication you are taking and its possible side effects. You can find a full list on your medication insert. To get you started, here is an overview of the most common side effects of high blood pressure medications.
If none of these combinations of medications is effective in lowering your blood pressure, your doctor may recommend additional medications, such as an alpha blocker or vasodilator. These medications are strong and may cause more side effects than may other blood pressure medications. When your blood pressure is very high, it's important to reduce it quickly to prevent or delay complications, such as damage to your arteries, heart failure or kidney damage. Depending on how high your blood pressure is, your doctor may prescribe one or more high blood pressure medications to treat your condition. For everyone who has high blood pressure or is at risk of developing high blood pressure, lifestyle changes can help keep your numbers under control.