The Lazarus sign or Lazarus reflex is a reflex movement in brain-dead patients, which causes them to briefly raise their arms and drop them crossed on their chests (in a position similar to some egyptian mummies). It has been suggested by neurologists studying the phenomenon that lack of awareness of this and similar reflexes may prevent delays in brain-dead diagnosis and misinterpretations.. The reflex is often preceded by slight shivering motions of the patient's arms, or the appearance of gooseflesh on the arms and torso.
In the diagnosis of brain death, it is generally accepted that respiratory function has to be absent, however, spinal reflexes can be preserved. We presented a patient who showed a complex movements of upper limbs (Lazarus' sign) and respiratory like movement during the apnea test for the determination of brain death. [Lazarus' sign and respiratory-like movement in a patient with brain death].
The Lazarus sign or Lazarus reflex is a reflex movement in brain-dead or brainstem failure patients, which causes them to briefly raise their arms and drop them crossed on their chests (in a position similar to some Egyptian mummies). 
Bizarre medical events-the Lazarus Reflex-when the brain dead raise their arms. It has been suggested by neurologists studying the phenomenon that lack of awareness of this and similar reflexes may prevent delays in brain-dead diagnosis and misinterpretations.. The reflex is often preceded by slight shivering motions of the patient's arms, or the appearance of gooseflesh on the arms and torso.
Abstract. Article abstract Spontaneous and reflex movements may be found in patients with brain death (BD). The authors prospectively evaluated their frequency using a standardized protocol. Among 38 patients who fulfilled criteria for BD, the authors found 15 (39%) with spontaneous or reflex movements. The most common movement was finger jerks. Undulating toe flexion sign, triple flexion response, Lazarus sign, pronation–extension reflex, and facial myokymia also were seen. 
Spontaneous and reflex movements may be found in patients with brain death (BD). The authors prospectively evaluated their frequency using a standardized protocol. Among 38 patients who fulfilled criteria for BD, the authors found 15 (39%) with spontaneous or reflex movements. The most common movement was finger jerks. Undulating toe flexion sign, triple flexion response, Lazarus sign, pronation-extension reflex, and facial myokymia also were seen. Spontaneous and reflex movements in brain death. Saposnik G(1), Bueri JA, Maurino Mauriño, J Saizar, R GARRETTO. Ns author: (information)1 department Of, Neurology Hospital.J. M Ramos, Mejia Mejía, Buenos. Aires argentina spontaneous and reflex movements may be found in patients with (BRAIN). death bd
Researchers have also found the presence of Lazarus sign during the testing for apnea – brief pause in breathing – that is one of the criteria for the determination of brain death used by the neurologists. You can see a video of this reflex here. Researchers have also reported “respiratory-like movement in a patient with brain death” along with Lazarus sign. This reflex is a kind of reflex arc generated by the spine that is why it can occur even after brain death, while the other organs are still working.
Lazarus complex-psychological sequence observed in survivors of cardiac arrest. Synonym(s): Lazarus syndrome. Lazarus sign-spontaneous movement in patients who are brain dead or who have suffered spinal cord injury. Lazarus sign. [Person in St. John's Gospel]. Dramatic movements of the arms across the torso, which are occasionally observed in brain-dead patients after they have been disconnected from mechanical life support. These movements may be misinterpreted as signs of life, when in fact they are merely involuntary reflexes.
Lazarus sign, also known as Lazarus reflex, is a complex form of reflex movement of the arms in brain dead patients. Researchers have also reported “respiratory-like movement in a patient with brain death” along with Lazarus sign. This reflex is a kind of reflex arc generated by the spine that is why it can occur even after brain death, while the other organs are still working.