Pull the roast from the oven when the inside temperature of the roast is about 10 degrees less than your desired level of doneness. The temperature of the roast may rise while the roast is cooking. Let the roast rest for at least 15 minutes, tented in aluminum foil to keep warm, before carving to serve. If the roast is very lean you may want to drizzle a tablespoon of olive oil or two over the roast. Sprinkle salt and pepper over the roast. Place the roast on a wire rack on a baking sheet. Bake the roast for approximately 25 to 30 minutes for every pound of meat for a roast to be cooked to medium.
1 Sprinkle roast generously with garlic powder, or to your liking. 2  DO NOT SALT roast, or you will dry it out. 3  Put roast in the oven on the middle rack. 4  Bake at 500 degrees for 5 minutes per pound, then shut off oven, and let sit in the oven for 1 hour. 1 DO NOT SALT roast, or you will dry it out. 2  Put roast in the oven on the middle rack. 3
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. Cooking at a constant oven temperature of 300°F (160°C), a 5- to 8-lb standing rib roast will take 17-19 minutes per pound for rare, 20-22 for medium rare, 23-25 minutes for medium, and 27-30 minutes for well done.
If a pan with a rack is not available, place the meat on sturdy foods such as potatoes or carrots to keep it from getting too wet. 5. Turn the oven down to 200ºF and cook for about 1 hour per pound. Check your meat with a thermometer after 2.5 hours for a 2.5 pound roast. Follow these guidelines for doneness when checking temperature 1  : 130ºF Rare. 
4) Place the beef in a roasting pan, and put it in the oven, uncovered. Timing is Everything. 1) Cook the roast for 15 minutes at 500 degrees F. 2) After 15 minutes, turn the temperature down to 375 degrees F. 3) Continue cooking for 16 minutes per pound (ex: If your roast is 3 pounds, that would be 48 minutes). 4) Remove from oven, and place pan on a cooling rack. 5) Let rest for 15 minutes
Cover the roast with a lid or aluminum foil. Place in the oven and roast for 1 1/2 hours, or 30 minutes per pound. 7. Test the roast to make sure it's done. Remove the lid or foil from the pan and insert a meat thermometer into the roast. 1  Rare meat is done when its temperature has reached 125 degrees Fahrenheit(52 degrees Celsius). It's also the perfect type of meat to cook in a crock pot or slow cooker. This article describes three methods of cooking rump roast: braised in the oven, cooked in a slow cooker, and marinated. 1  Prep time (Braised): 15 minutes. 2  Cook time: 90 minutes.
Drizzle with olive oil and place the roast on top. Place the roast in the oven and bake for about 15 minutes, then reduce the heat to 375 F (190 C). Roast for about 13-15 minutes per pound for rare, 17-19 minutes for medium, and 22-25 for cooked through. Check the meat with a thermometer to make sure it is the temperature you want it--145°F for medium rare, 160°F for medium. (Baste the roast a couple times while cooking, and keep an eye on the vegetables
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast. The proper beef roast cook times and the correct beef cooking oven temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various beef roasts can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef roasts.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Add beef stock and enough water to yield about 1/2 inch of liquid in the roasting pan. Lower oven to 300 degrees F, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain. Top with juice from the pan.