A brand (or marque for car model) is a name, term, design, symbol or other feature that distinguishes one seller's product from those of others. Brands are used in business, marketing, and advertising. A concept brand is a brand that is associated with an abstract concept, like breast cancer awareness or environmentalism, rather than a specific product, service, or business.
1 23. 2  Types of brandThere are two main types of brand – manufacturer brands and own-label brands.Manufacturer brandsManufacturer brands are created by producers and bear their chosen brand name. 3  The producer is responsible for marketing the brand. 1 22. 2  Manufacturers’ Brands VersusPrivate Brands Manufacturers’ The brand name of a manufacturer. 3  Brand A brand name owned by a wholesaler Private or a retailer. 4  Also known as a private Brand label or store brand.
(authorized representative, distributor, retailer, wholesaler, user, sub-contractor, own brand labeller, private labeller). 1  The manufacturer is any natural or legal person who is responsible for designing and manufacturing a product with a view to placing it on the Community market under his own name (or trademark. ). The manufacturer has sole and ultimate responsibility for the conformity of the product to the applicable directives, whether he designed and manufactured the product himself or is considered as a manufacturer because the product is placed on the market under his name.
1 Manufacturers’ Brands VersusPrivate Brands Manufacturers’ The brand name of a manufacturer. 2  Brand A brand name owned by a wholesaler Private or a retailer. 3  Also known as a private Brand label or store brand. 4  23. 1 22. 2  Manufacturers’ Brands VersusPrivate Brands Manufacturers’ The brand name of a manufacturer. 3  Brand A brand name owned by a wholesaler Private or a retailer. 4  Also known as a private Brand label or store brand.
DEFINITION of 'Private Brand'. A brand placed on products that a large manufacturer has created for a smaller retailer. The smaller retailer places their own private brand label on the final good which was created by a third party manufacturer. Private branding is a cost effective way to gain access to producing a product without requiring a large manufacturing or design team. Also known as private label. Next Up. Many private brands have seen success due to the flexibility in production and little capital required to start (no need to build manufacturing plants). For the manufacturer the benefit of selling private brands is the increased sales volume and stable supply contracts.
(July 2014). An original brand manufacturer, or OBM, is typically a company that sells an entire product made by a second company or including a component thereof from a second company sources as its own branded product. 
Definition. Common practice where a manufacturer markets a good or family of goods under its own brand name(s). The objective is to attract and retain satisfied-customers whose loyalty may be transferred to the manufacturer's other products. Nearby Terms. 1  manual. 2  manual element. 3  manual excess. 4  manual rates. 5  manufacturabili... 6  manufacture. 7  manufactured ga... 8  manufacturer. 9  manufacturer br... 10  manufacturer's 11  ... manufacturers a... 12  manufacturer's 13  ... manufacturer's 14  ... manufacturer's 15  ... manufacturing. 16  manufacturing a... 17
1 Types of brandThere are two main types of brand – manufacturer brands and own-label brands.Manufacturer brandsManufacturer brands are created by producers and bear their chosen brand name. 2  The producer is responsible for marketing the brand. 1 22. 2  Manufacturers’ Brands VersusPrivate Brands Manufacturers’ The brand name of a manufacturer. 3  Brand A brand name owned by a wholesaler Private or a retailer. 4  Also known as a private Brand label or store brand.
To attract and retain satisfied customers to one particular good, a manufacturer markets a good or family of goods under its own brand name(s). Loyalty may otherwise transfer to the manufacturer's other products in the same product family. 