Adoption of these boy names was at its highest during 1880-1889 (usage of 0.1222%) and is almost as widespread today (usage 0.1048%, ▼ 14.2%), but with names like Bernard and Arthur becoming less trendy. Eden (#601) and Barrett (#346) are two of the more trendy names for newborns here. Strength of a bear .. Bernal, Bernold, etc. are rarely found as male names, and Bernal occurs commonly (top 1%) as a last name. Sometimes used in English speaking countries .. [ Bernald, Bernhald, Bernold, ..
The masculine given name Bernard is of Germanic origin. The meaning of the name is from a Germanic compound Bern-hard meaning bear-hardy/brave/strong, or hardy/brave/strong as a bear. Bern-is the old form of bear, from West Germanic *beran- . 
The English word bear comes from Old English bera and belongs to a family of names for the bear in Germanic languages that originate from an adjective meaning  brown . In Scandinavia, the word for bear is bjoern (björn or), bjoern bjørn and is a relatively common given name. for males In Switzerland, the male first name Urs is especially popular, while the name of the canton and city of Bern is derived from Baer, Bär german for. Bear The germanic Name (bernard Including bernhardt and other) forms means-bear, brave-bear, hardy or bold. bear
URS m German. German form of the Latin name Ursus, which meant bear ... [more]. URSULA f English, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Dutch, Finnish, Late Roman. Means little bear, derived from a diminutive form of the Latin word ursa she-bear ... [more]. From the Old Norse name Þórbjörn, þórbjörn which Meant'thor s bear from the name of The norse Þórr (þorr þóRR) see thor combined with. BJOERN björn Bear. Urs m german german Form of The, latin name ursus ... [which]. meant bear more
ARTHFAEL: Welsh form of Old Breton Arthmael, meaning bear chief or warrior prince.. ARTHMAEL: Old Breton name composed of the Celtic elements arth bear, warrior, and mael chief, prince, hence bear chief or warrior prince.. ARTHUR: Celtic Arthurian legend name of a famous King of Britain. 1 The place name Arcadia was derived from the word arktos, meaning bear.. 2  BERDINE: Contracted form of French Bernardine, meaning bold as a bear.. 3  BERENGARI: Short form of Latin Berengaria, meaning bear-spear..
Bear names are rather popular as baby girl names. Their usage peaked in 1912 with 1.608% of baby girls being given Bear names. Within the top 1000 baby names then, there were 6 Bear names. The names have slipped in popularity since then, and they are of moderate use in recent times. In 2012, their total usage was 0.718% with 4 Bear names listed among the top 1000. Among all Bear names, Elizabeth (English, Greek, and Hebrew) was the most widely used, with a ranking of #10 and a usage of 0.4994%. Boy [Girl].
There are 76 Bear names for baby boys. Bear names are fairly popular baby names for boys. The names rose in popularity from the 1940s up to the 1970s. At the height of their usage in 1972, 3.436% of baby boys were given Bear names. There were 5 Bear names ranked within the top 1000 baby names then. Bear names have since experienced a decline in frequency. In 2012, 6 Bear names listed among the top 1000, with a combined usage of 1.045%.
It is a combination of the Greek thalasso, meaning sea, and arctos, meaning bear of the north. In 1971, polar bear scientists returned to the bear's original scientific name, Ursus maritimus. 1  To the Inuit, the polar bear is Nanuq, an animal worthy of great respect. 
Baby Names Meaning BEAR. Label: Names Meaning. F ind out list of baby names meaning  BEAR . These names are originated from Native American, German, French, Greek, Biblical, Scandinavian, Irish, Slavic, French and more background. - AVONACO: Native American female name means Lean Bear. - BERNADINE: German female name means Brave as a Bear. 
ARKADIOS (αρκάδιος): Greek name meaning of Arcadia.. The place name Arcadia was derived from the word arktos, meaning bear.. ARKTOPHONOS (άρκτοφόνος): Greek name composed of the elements arktos bear and phonos murderer, slayer, hence bear-killer.. In mythology, this is the name of one of Orion's dogs. 1 The place name Arcadia was derived from the word arktos, meaning bear.. 2  BERDINE: Contracted form of French Bernardine, meaning bold as a bear.. 3  BERENGARI: Short form of Latin Berengaria, meaning bear-spear..