Fixed length fields are columns in a database table that always use a set amount of space for each row of data in the table. A fixed length field of 50 characters will a … lways consume 50 characters for that field, regardless of how long the actual data in that field requires.
For example, a field whose data type is Text can store data that consists of either text or numerical characters, but a field whose data type is Number can store only numerical data. A field's data type determines many other important field qualities, such as: How you can use the field in expressions.
1 The First Name field is mandatory. 2  The First Name must be between one (1) and 10 characters in length. 3  If the First Name is longer than 10 characters, enter the first 10 characters of the First Name. 4  Enter the First Name using alphabetic characters only.
The length of a SAS name depends on the element it is assigned to. Many SAS names can be 32 characters long; others have a maximum length of 8. The first character must be an English letter (A, B, C, . . ., Z) or underscore (_).
First Name. 1  The First Name field is mandatory. 2  The First Name must be between one (1) and 10 characters in length. 3  If the First Name is longer than 10 characters, enter the first 10 characters of the 
If you set the character limit in the State field to 2, users can only enter two characters of information. This means they must enter postal abbreviations for the states instead of the full name—here, NC instead of North Carolina. Note that you can only set a character limit for fields defined as text.
The field must be defined to be between 1 and 250 characters. The space used by a text field equals the maximum length of the text plus one byte. This extra byte is a used to hold the length of the string.
Field character limits. Setting the character limit for a field sets a rule about how many characters—letters, numbers, punctuation, and even spaces—can be entered into that field. This can help to keep the data in your records concise and even force users to enter data a certain way.
You use one of the following special characters in the name of a table field: In this case, you receive the following error message: If you use these special characters in a table name, you receive the following error message: You create a query expression.