2. Consume seven meals per day, but only consume protein sources (meat, whey, etc.) at four or five of them – 130 -150g protein per day. 3. Change my eating habits to consume four or five meals per day so I can keep my protein around 130 – 150g per day. Thank you so much. When you do exercise, however, the body needs even more amino acids to repair damaged muscle fibers and, depending on what you’re doing, grow them larger. This is why athletes need to eat a high-protein diet to maximize performance.
According to the University of California, Los Angeles, sedentary people need about 0.36 grams of protein per 1 pound of body weight per day. This is the approximate amount of protein that will help you maintain your body’s current muscle mass. As an example, a 150 pound person would need 54 grams of protein per day. This varies depending upon your sex and age, so consult your doctor for a more precise figure. A 150 pounds strength-training athlete may need 109 to 122 grams of protein each day. The amount of protein your body needs to maintain your current lean mass and body weight may vary slightly from these guidelines.
1 The RDA (recommended dietary allowance) for protein is 0.8 grams per kilogram of body weight of adults (or roughly 0.36 grams per lb of body weight). 2  Or I have also seen advised that women need at least 46 grams of protein per day, and men need at least 56 grams of protein per day (to avoid deficiency). When new muscle is made, the amino acids used to construct the muscle protein are drawn from the amino acid pool. One of the contributors to the AA pool is enzymes that are no longer needed and junk proteins that the body is cleansing from the cells.
Research shows that the average trainee looking to build muscle can benefit anywhere from .6g to around 1.1g of protein per pound of bodyweight. It all really depends on your goals, genetics, and the rest of your diet, but aiming to hit between those targets should be sufficient for most people. What I want to know is, how do you measure how much protein you are getting in your meals, as in, a piece of chicken breast contains x amount of grams of protein? I weigh 115 lbs w around 25% body fat right now but am looking to build and drop the percentage of fat.
1 The more active you are, the more protein you probably should intake. 2  Most average active people only need about 0.6g/lb of lean body weight. 3  On the high end I would say only need to go 0.8-1.0g/lb bw, but that does not guarantee extra muscle especially when you can up calories from fat/carbs. When new muscle is made, the amino acids used to construct the muscle protein are drawn from the amino acid pool. One of the contributors to the AA pool is enzymes that are no longer needed and junk proteins that the body is cleansing from the cells.
If you eat too few grams of protein every day, your body can become deficient in the amino acids it needs to build and repair muscle, and thus, muscle growth becomes impaired. Now, the body has certain protein needs even if you don’t exercise. When you do exercise, however, the body needs even more amino acids to repair damaged muscle fibers and, depending on what you’re doing, grow them larger. This is why athletes need to eat a high-protein diet to maximize performance.
You don’t need gads of protein to build muscle. I eat around .8 grams per lb of bodyweight and I have had good results as a forty-two year old lady. Thanks! Next time you’re dieting for fat loss, I recommend bumping it up a bit–at least to 1 g/lb. When you do exercise, however, the body needs even more amino acids to repair damaged muscle fibers and, depending on what you’re doing, grow them larger. This is why athletes need to eat a high-protein diet to maximize performance.
As much as every supplement company would love us all to believe that we need a 20gram whey protein shake every 2-3 hours (and fuel more supplement sales), in fact maybe the body works better when presented a randomized/stressed environment and not some set equally divided schedule day in and out. When new muscle is made, the amino acids used to construct the muscle protein are drawn from the amino acid pool. One of the contributors to the AA pool is enzymes that are no longer needed and junk proteins that the body is cleansing from the cells.
Wrapping Up. 1  The amount of protein that you REALLY need to build muscle is lower than you think, but you still have to get in enough calories from some place. 2  Most people using higher protein based diets are usually trying to lose weight and maintain muscle (by limiting calories from excess fat and carbs). When new muscle is made, the amino acids used to construct the muscle protein are drawn from the amino acid pool. One of the contributors to the AA pool is enzymes that are no longer needed and junk proteins that the body is cleansing from the cells.
If you are bulking, you will need to consume between 300-500 calories above your maintenance level. If you are cutting, this number will be 300-500 calories below your maintenance level. You can determine your maintenance level by reading my post on how many calories to build muscle. If carbohydrates make up 50% of your diet, you will need to consume 1,500 calories worth of carbohydrates. At 4 calories per gram, 1,500 divided by 4 would equal about 375 grams of carbohydrates every day. Your own caloric intake will vary a lot based on your own personal goal and BMR.