Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) surgery. An endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is the second type of surgery done on some children who have hydrocephalus. Your surgeon will tell you if this surgery is possible for your child. There are two types of hydrocephalus: 1  Communicating hydrocephalus is the build-up of pressure from too much CSF that is not being properly absorbed. 2  Non-communicating hydrocephalus is the build-up of pressure from CSF when a blockage occurs within the brain.
Medical Definition of VENTRICULOSTOMY. : the surgical establishment of an opening in a ventricle of the brain to drain cerebrospinal fluid especially in hydrocephalus. What made you want to look up ventriculostomy?
What is endoscopic third ventriculostomy? Endoscopic third ventriculostomy is a procedure in which a small perforation is made in the thinned floor of the third ventricle, allowing movement of cerebrospinal fluid of the blocked ventricular system and into the interpenduncular cistern (a normal CSF space). 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A ventriculostomy involves the placement of a tube or catheter into fluid-filled spaces within the brain known as the ventricles. The tube typically goes into the part of the brain that contains the ventricles through a hole made in the top of the head. 
width (at least 7 millimeters), no history of previous radiation treatment, and a thinned third. ventricular floor. Conclusion Although endoscopic third ventriculostomy can ideally lead to the much-desired result of a shunt-free life, doctors caution that this procedure is not appropriate for everyone. 
ven·tric·u·lot·o·my. Incision into a ventricle; for example, into the cerebral third ventricle for the relief of hydrocephalus or into a cardiac ventricle to surgically correct an abnormality. [ventriculo- + G. tomē, incision]. /ven·tric·u·lot·o·my/ (ven-trik″u-lot´ah-me) incision of a ventricle of the brain or heart.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is a surgical procedure for treatment of hydrocephalus in which an opening is created in the floor of the third ventricle using an endoscope placed within the ventricular system through a burr hole.
See also: shunt (2). [ventriculo- + G. stoma, mouth]. /ven·tric·u·los·to·my/ (ven-trik″u-los´tah-me) surgical creation of a free communication or shunt between the third ventricle and the interpeduncular cistern for relief of hydrocephalus. 
Ventriculostomy. Custom Search. A ventriculostomy, also called an external ventricular drain (EVD) or ventricular catheter, is a catheter placed into the ventricles, fluid-filled spaces within the brain, and drains cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) externally. 
Endoscopic Third Ventriculostomy (ETV). An endoscope being used to make a hole in the ventricle so the patient can avoid needing a shunt. For a small number of children, an endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) surgery may be a treatment option. This surgery replaces the need to have a shunt. 