In translation, messenger RNA (mRNA) —produced by transcription from DNA —is decoded by a ribosome to produce a specific amino acid chain, or polypeptide. The polypeptide later folds into an active protein and performs its functions in the cell. 
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription. The initiator methionine tRNA is the only aminoacyl-tRNA that can bind in the P site of the ribosome, and the A site is aligned with the second mRNA codon. The ribosome is thus ready to bind the second aminoacyl-tRNA at the A site, which will be joined to the initiator methionine by the first peptide bond (Figure 5).
Translation occurs in the ribosomes, and involves the creation of a polypeptide (protein). An mRNA carries a code (which was copied from DNA). Each three bases (codon) on th … e mRNA are matched up with three bases on a tRNA (anticodon). The tRNA carries a specific amino acid. … lation within the same language, which can involve rewording or paraphrase; Interlingual translation-translation from one language to another Intersemiotic translation-translation of the verbal sign by a non-verbal sign, for example music or image.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. transcription is using DNA to make RNA, and translation is the use of RNA to make an amino acid chain, or protein. Think of it along the lines of when you transcribe you're just taking code to a different form, and when you translate you're turning it into a different thing entirely. 
translation / RNA translation. Translation is the process by which a protein is synthesized from the information contained in a molecule of messenger RNA (mRNA). During translation, an mRNA sequence is read using the genetic code, which is a set of rules that defines how an mRNA sequence is to be translated into the 20-letter code of amino acids, which are the building blocks of proteins.
In translation, mRNA along with tRNA and ribosomes work together to produce a protein. Photo Credit: Mariana Ruiz Villarreal/Wikimedia Commons. Protein synthesis is accomplished through a process called translation. After DNA is transcribed into a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule during transcription, the mRNA must be translated to produce a protein. Many copies of a protein can be made from one mRNA molecule. This is because several ribosomes can translate the same mRNA molecule at the same time. These clusters of ribosomes that translate a single mRNA sequence are called polyribosomes or polysomes. 2 of 2 Show All.
The ribosome has a small and a large subunit and is a complex molecule composed of several ribosomal RNA molecules and a number of proteins. Translation of an mRNA molecule by the ribosome occurs in three stages: initiation, elongation, and termination. During translation, an mRNA sequence is read using the genetic code, which is a set of rules that defines how an mRNA sequence is to be translated into the 20-letter code of amino acids, which are the building blocks
Transcription is the process by which DNA is copied (transcribed) to mRNA, which carries the information needed for protein synthesis. Transcription takes place in two broad steps. First, pre-messenger RNA is formed, with the involvement of RNA polymerase enzymes. Here, it directs protein synthesis. Messenger RNA is not directly involved in protein synthesis − transfer RNA (tRNA) is required for this. The process by which mRNA directs protein synthesis with the assistance of tRNA is called translation. The ribosome is a very large complex of RNA and protein molecules. Each three-base stretch of mRNA (triplet) is known as a codon, and one codon contains the information for a specific amino acid
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. The initiator methionine tRNA is the only aminoacyl-tRNA that can bind in the P site of the ribosome, and the A site is aligned with the second mRNA codon. The ribosome is thus ready to bind the second aminoacyl-tRNA at the A site, which will be joined to the initiator methionine by the first peptide bond (Figure 5).