Required for the function of coenzyme Q in the respiratory chain. May serve as a chaperone or may be involved in the transport of Q6 from its site of synthesis to the catalytic sites of the respiratory complexes (By similarity).By similarity. Coenzyme Q-binding protein COQ10 homolog B, mitochondrial.
From UniProt : Lipid-binding protein involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q, also named ubiquinone, an essential lipid-soluble electron transporter for aerobic cellular respiration. Binds a phospholipid of at least 10 carbons in each acyl group. May be required to present its bound-lipid to COQ7.
It has been widely accepted that most coenzyme Q (CoQ) exists freely in the mitochondrial membrane as a CoQ pool. However, the recent identification of a mitochondrial CoQ-binding protein, termed Coq10, in budding yeast has the potential to change our current view of CoQ status in membranes.
The energy given to the electrons of the reduced coenzyme NADH and to succinate by the TCA cycle is transferred in small steps in the inner membrane of the mitochondrion through a chain of five protein complexes. These small oxidation steps accomplish the conversion of ADP to the energy currency molecule ATP.
Background. Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an antioxidant that is made in the human body. CoQ10 is needed for basic cell function. CoQ10 levels decrease with age and may be low in people with cancer, certain genetic disorders, diabetes, heart conditions, HIV/AIDS, muscular dystrophies, and Parkinson's disease.
Coq10, a mitochondrial coenzyme Q binding protein, is required for proper respiration in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Cui TZ(1), Kawamukai M. Author information: (1)Department of Applied Bioscience and Biotechnology, Faculty of Life and Environmental Science, Shimane University, Matsue, Japan.
Coenzyme Q-10 is an important vitamin-like substance required for the proper function of many organs and chemical reactions in the body. It helps provide energy to cells. Coenzyme Q-10 also seems to have antioxidant activity.
Lipid-binding protein involved in the biosynthesis of coenzyme Q, also named ubiquinone, an essential lipid-soluble electron transporter for aerobic cellular respiration. Binds a phospholipid of at least 10 carbons in each acyl group. May be required to present its bound-lipid to COQ7.