Acute pain in the abdomen due to sudden inflammation of the abdominal tissues, or peritoneum, is medically referred to as peritonitis. It causes fluid to shift into the peritoneal cavity, leading to severe dehydration and electrolyte imbalance. READ MORE. The abdominal cavity is lined with a thin, watery membrane, called the peritoneum. When the cat's abdominal cavity, also called the peritoneal... Intestinal Obstruction in Cats. READ MORE. Gastrointestinal obstruction refers to blockage that may occur in the stomach or intestines.
Peritonitis in Cats. The abdominal cavity is lined with a thin, watery membrane, called the peritoneum. When the cat's abdominal cavity, also called the peritoneal cavity, is injured, the peritoneum becomes inflamed. The severity of the inflammation depends on the type of injury the peritoneal cavity has undergone. Peritonitis is frequently a painful condition, and the cat will respond when it is touched on its abdomen
Greater Omentum-This consists of a double layer of avascular peritoneum which connects to the stomach. Web-like structure; lift out of the way to expose other organs. It contains a large quantity of fat deposits and lies upon the abdominal organs. 
The thoracic cavity houses the heart and lungs, while the majority of the digestive system is located within the abdominal cavity. Above the diaphragm, you are already familiar with the heart and its vessels. The trachea is visible as a ringed tube in the throat area. The cartilage of the trachea makes this structure stiff and easy to find. The esophagus is located just behind and slightly to the side. It is a soft structure and may blend in with the vessels and tissue of that area. The probe in this photo is lifting the esophagus. Its path runs parallel to the inferior vena cava. Just below the diaphragm is the largest organ in the cat, the liver. It has 4 lobes and a very obvious presence in the abdominal cavity. Embedded within the liver, but easy to spot, is the gall bladder.
The abdominopelvic cavity is also separated into two subdivisions, the “ abdominal cavity ” and “ pelvic cavity “. The abdominal cavity contains the stomach, spleen, liver, intestines, and a few other organs. The walls of the ventral body cavity and outer covering of its organs contain a thin covering called the serosa (also called serous membrane). It is a double-layered membrane made up of two parts called the “ parietal serosa ” (lines the cavity walls) and “ visceral serosa ” (covers organs in the cavity).
The abdominopelvic cavity is a body cavity that consists of the abdominal cavity and the pelvic cavity. It contains the stomach, liver, pancreas, spleen, gallbladder, kidneys, and most of the small and large intestines. 
A few organs, such as the kidneys and pancreas, lie between the peritoneal lining and the muscular wall of the abdominal cavity. Those organs are said to be retroperitoneal (retro, behind). The pelvic cavity is the portion of the ventral body cavity inferior to the abdominal cavity. The bones of the pelvis form the walls of the pelvic cavity, and a layer of muscle forms its floor. The pelvic cavity contains the last portion of the large intestine, the urinary bladder, and various reproductive organs. 
The abdominal cavity is a large cavity in the body that contains the major viscera. This body cavity is the largest in the body, but it is far from an empty space. In fact, it is quite full of various important organs that are ingeniously packed into place. Above the abdominal cavity is the thoracic cavity, which contains the lungs and heart. The two are separated by a layer of tough tissue known as the diaphragm.
State the location of the parietal peritoneum and the visceral peritoneum of the abdominopelvic cavity. After cutting through the muscle layers of the abdominopelvic cavity, you will find a fine membrane, the peritoneum, which lines the inside of the abdominal cavity. The portion of this serous membrane that you see is the parietal peritoneum. The visceral peritoneum covers the abdominal organs. The first portion of the small intestine is the duodenum. It is a continuation of the pyloric end of the stomach. It is a short U shaped tube, approximately four inches long. The second section of the small intestine is the jejunum, which makes up about half the length of this organ.