REMERON® (mirtazapine) Tablets are supplied as: 15 mg Tablets — oval, scored, yellow, coated, with “Organon” debossed on 1 side and “T3Z” on the other side. Bottles of 30 NDC 0052-0105-30. 30 mg Tablets — oval, scored, red-brown, coated, with “Organon” debossed on 1 side and “T5Z” on the other side. Discontinuation of Remeron Treatment. Symptoms associated with the discontinuation or dose reduction of REMERON Tablets have been reported. Patients should be monitored for these and other symptoms when discontinuing treatment or during dosage reduction.
Remeron (mirtazapine) is a tetracyclic antidepressant used to treat depression. The drug is available in generic form (mirtazapine). It has been used to treat nausea, anxiety, post traumatic stress syndrome, and used as an appetite stimulant. The most common side effects of Remeron are drowsiness, increased appetite, weight gain, dizziness, and nausea.
Mirtazapine is an antidepressant drug prescribed to treat Major Depressive Disorder, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder and a range of anxiety disorders. Alongside these, it may be prescribed ‘off-label’ to people experiencing prolonged periods of poor sleep. Side effects of Mirtazapine. As with all antidepressants, there are certain side effects associated with Mirtazapine use. These include weight gain and, because the drug remains in one’s system throughout the course of the day, a person might also experience drowsiness.
Systematic evaluation of REMERON (mirtazapine) Tablets has demonstrated that its efficacy in major depressive disorder is maintained for periods of up to 40 weeks following 8 to 12 weeks of initial treatment at a dose of 15 to 45 mg/day (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY). Discontinuation of Remeron Treatment. Symptoms associated with the discontinuation or dose reduction of REMERON Tablets have been reported. Patients should be monitored for these and other symptoms when discontinuing treatment or during dosage reduction.
The recommended starting dose when treating depression is mirtazapine 15 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. Your healthcare provider may increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose of mirtazapine is 45 mg per day. Your healthcare provider may increase your mirtazapine dosing amount if symptoms of depression continue, or decrease the dose if you develop side effects. The dose of mirtazapine (Remeron ®) that your healthcare provider prescribes will vary, depending on a number of factors, including:
The usual starting dosage is 15 mg, with a usual dosage range of 15 to 30 mg per day. 18 Because of its common sedative effect, it is usually recommended that mirtazapine be taken at bedtime. It is available in 15-mg and 30-mg scored tablets. 
The recommended starting dose of Remeron is 15 mg a day, usually taken at bedtime. The dose of Remeron ® (mirtazapine) that your healthcare provider prescribes will vary, depending on a number of factors, including: As is always the case, do not adjust your dosage unless your healthcare provider specifically tells you to do so. The recommended dose of Remeron when beginning treatment for depression is 15 mg, taken once daily at bedtime. Your healthcare provider may increase the dosage if symptoms continue, or decrease the dose if side effects occur. The maximum recommended dose is 45 mg per day.
The recommended starting dose for REMERON® (mirtazapine) Tablets is 15 mg/day, administered in a single dose, preferably in the evening prior to sleep. Discontinuation of Remeron Treatment. Symptoms associated with the discontinuation or dose reduction of REMERON Tablets have been reported. Patients should be monitored for these and other symptoms when discontinuing treatment or during dosage reduction.
In structure, mirtazapine can also be classified as a tetracyclic antidepressant (TeCA) and is the 6- aza analogue of mianserin. It is also racemic —occurs as a combination of both (R)- and (S)- stereoisomers. Its patent expired in 2004, so generic versions are available. 