By Elias Georgsen. The Libra personality is one that requires orderliness, fairness and peace. The Libra sign is a scale and the only of the Zodiac signs that's not a living entity. The scales, however, is perfect for their personality. The Libra constantly reviews and makes certain that there's balance in all things around them. This includes not just decor décor but personal. interactions 
By Brian Palenske. As the symbol of the scale indicates, the Libra personality is one that seeks fairness and balance, as well as peace and harmony in all aspects of life. Ruled by the lovely, creative Venus, the Libra personality is highly motivated by the concepts of beauty and creativity as well. 
Libra is the only inanimate sign of the zodiac, all the others representing either humans or animals. Many modern astrologers regard it as the most desirable of zodiacal types because it represents the zenith of the year, the high point of the seasons, when the harvest of all the hard work of the spring is reaped.
A mental connection with others is very important to Libra. Seeing that Libra is an Air sign, and the element of Air is focused on mental/intellectual activity, this makes a lot of sense. Libras tend to really enjoy others' company and may have a hard time being alone.
The second indecisive type of Libra is influenced by the rulership of Venus in this sign. This Libra personality is the archetypal lover and artist. They are less inclined to take concrete or practical action as in the first type. Their province is the liberal or fine arts. The other type is indecisive and has a concern with esthetics. These two types can be present in one person but frequently one or the other predominates. The first type of Libra is more influenced by Saturn’s exaltation in this sign. Here we have the natural born judge.
Libra Woman In Love. Being a very social individual, the Libra woman is the kind of person who can make anyone laugh without much effort. She is the kind of lady who turns heads everywhere she goes and no doubt, has quite a number of compatible men waiting for her to give them the go ahead. 
The Libra personality is looking for balance in their lives and relationships. There are at least two types of Libra. One is decisive and preoccupied with morality. The other type is indecisive and has a concern with esthetics. These two types can be present in one person but frequently one or the other predominates. The first type of Libra is more influenced by Saturn’s exaltation in this sign. Here we have the natural born judge.
Librans are sensitive to the needs of others and have the gift, sometimes to an almost psychic extent, of understanding the emotional needs of their companions and meeting them with their own innate optimism-they are the kind of people of whom it is said, They always make you feel better for having been with them.. Many modern astrologers regard it as the most desirable of zodiacal types because it represents the zenith of the year, the high point of the seasons, when the harvest of all the hard work of the spring is reaped.
Libra is the seventh sign of the astrological year and is known by its astrological symbol, the Scales. Libra individuals are artistic, affectionate, and refined. With Venus as the ruling planet, people born under this sign are considered to be attractive and fashion-conscious. 
The people born under the Sign Libra are kind, gentle and lovers of beauty, harmony and peace. However, in their effort to keep everyone happy, they find it difficult to say ‘NO’ to anyone, and as a result, they end up getting stressed. They have a lot of positive traits, but some negative ones, too. A Libra native can easily be influenced by the views of other people and are prone to keep changing their minds. If is difficult to understand whether they will keep their promises.