The rungs of the ladder are pairs of 4 types of nitrogen bases  (thymines, adenines, guanines, cytosines).   ---   The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenin … e and thymine  (A-T). The 'steps' or 'rungs' of the DNA 'ladder' are complimentary pairs of bases bonded by hydrogen bonds.
The rungs of the ladder are pairs of 4 types of nitrogen bases (thymines, adenines, guanines, cytosines). ---. The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenine and thymine (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and phosophate groups.
Concept 19 The DNA molecule is shaped like a twisted ladder. Earlier work had shown that DNA is composed of building blocks called nucleotides consisting of a deoxyribose sugar, a phosphate group, and one of four nitrogen bases — adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G), and cytosine (C). Phosphates and sugars of adjacent nucleotides link to form a long polymer. 
the base pairs. The rungs of the DNA ladder are formed by nucleotides (Adenine with Thymine, and Guanine with Cytosine) bonded together with Hydrogen bonds. The 'steps' or 'rungs' of the DNA 'ladder' are complimentary pairs of bases bonded by h
Best Answer: First of all to the guy above me, DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid, so it cant be made of itself. Next off, the rungs are made of bases. The bases are Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine, and Thymine. The sides are made up of a sugar molecule and a phosphate. Together the base, sugar, and phosphates make up a nucleotide, which is the subunit of DNA. On the carbon labeled #1 on the deoxyribose sugar, you have the base added to it. These bases form the rungs of the DNA molecule. Adenine, Thymine, Cytosine and Guanine are the four possible bases. There are two different types of bases, purines and pyrimidines. They refer to the basic structure, or backbone if you will, of the bases
1 Your genome is made of a chemical called deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA for short. 2  DNA contains four basic building blocks or ‘ bases ’: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 3  The order, or sequence, of these bases form the instructions in the genome. 4  DNA is a two-stranded molecule. 1 Each strand is composed of long sequences of the four bases, A, C, G and T. 2  The bases on one strand of the DNA molecule pair together with complementary bases on the opposite strand of DNA to form the ‘rungs’ of the DNA ‘ladder’. 3  The bases always pair together in the same way, A with T, C with G.
the base pairs The rungs of the DNA ladder are formed by nucleotides (Adenine with Thymine, and Guanine with Cytosine) bonded together with Hydrogen bonds. + 13 others found this useful. The pairs are guanine and cytosine (G-C), or adenine and thymine (A-T). The rungs of the dna ladder are made of alternating sugars and phosophate groups.
Combinations of these atoms form the sugar-phosphate backbone of the DNA -- the sides of the ladder, in other words. Other combinations of the atoms form the four bases: thymine (T), adenine (A), cytosine (C), and guanine (G). These bases are the rungs of the DNA ladder. (It takes two bases to form a rung -- one for each side of the ladder.). A sugar molecule, a base, and a phosphate molecule group together to make up a nucleotide. Nucleotides are abundant in the cell's nucleus. 