Credit: Vancouver Island, just off of southwestern Canada´s British Columbia coast, is a beautiful place popular with both Canadians and Americans. Its natural beauty is one of its main draws, making it a popular destination for whale watching, white water rafting, caving, sailing, fishing, diving, and snorkeling. At the south tip of the island is the city of Victoria, British Columbia´s capital. This city has been called Canada´s answer to Seattle, and is a very popular tourist destination. The island sits at the center of this true-color Terra MODIS image
Welcome to Vancouver Island. Welcome to Vancouver Island and the Gulf Islands, sitting on Canada's west coast just above the 48th parallel. This is a land of lush forests and blue waters. Bays ringed by white sand beaches and flanked by rocky headlands are home to both calm waters and crashing rollers. 
Along with most of the southern Gulf Islands, plus various minor islands offshore from its southern end, the southern part of Vancouver Island is the only part of British Columbia (and of Western Canada) that lies south of the 49th Parallel. While the city of Vancouver stands on the North American mainland, Victoria, the capital city of British Columbia, is located on the island. The island was first explored by Europeans when British and Spanish expeditions arrived in the late 18th century.
1 Port Renfrew-A 2 hour scenic drive from Victoria on the West Coast of Vancouver Island, Port Renfrew is a small west coast community originally built by logging and fishing. 2  It is situated along 150 miles of rugged uninhabited coastline. 3  Nanaimo-The second largest city, and largest port on Vancouver island. The most common way to get to Vancouver Island is by BC Ferries [3] . There is regular ferry service from Tsawwassen (near Vancouver) to Swartz Bay (Near Victoria), Tsawwassen to Duke Point (near Nanaimo) and Horseshoe Bay (Near Vancouver) to Departure Bay (in Nanaimo).
Vancouver Island is part of British Columbia, Canada. As well as the island itself, it is also a region which includes the Gulf Islands in the Strait of Georgia. It is often referred to by the locals as simply 'The Island'. The most common way to get to Vancouver Island is by BC Ferries [3] . There is regular ferry service from Tsawwassen (near Vancouver) to Swartz Bay (Near Victoria), Tsawwassen to Duke Point (near Nanaimo) and Horseshoe Bay (Near Vancouver) to Departure Bay (in Nanaimo).
Prepare yourself for the adventure of a lifetime on Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada. Explore Victoria, Tofino, Parksville, Campbell River or Port Hardy, or go hiking, camping, kayaking, golfing, salmon fishing, whale watching or wildlife viewing. Over 400 artists from across Vancouver Island converge in Sidney, BC for the ArtSea Festival, a 10-day celebration of arts and culture from October 16th to 25th. The Sidney Fine Art Show kicks off the celebration on October 16, 17 and 18.
The Vancouver Island region includes Vancouver Island itself, as well as the Gulf Islands and a portion of British Columbia’s mainland coast. Travelling to and within the Vancouver Island region is exciting, fun, and always easy. Whether you’re taking in the scenery and watching for whales from the deck of a ferry, flying over the coastline from the mainland, , or driving the Island Highway, keep your camera handy — the scenery is spectacular! BC Ferries’ diverse service area includes connections between the Vancouver Mainland and Vancouver Island; from Vancouver Island or the Vancouver Mainland to many small island communities; from Prince Rupert on the province’s north coast to Haidai Gwaii and to Port Hardy.
Vancouver Island is separated from mainland British Columbia by the Strait of Georgia and Queen Charlotte Strait, and from Washington by the Juan De Fuca Strait. Vancouver Island, located in British Columbia, Canada, is the largest Pacific island east of New Zealand. While the city of Vancouver stands on the North American mainland, Victoria, the capital city of British Columbia, is located on the island. The island was first explored by Europeans when British and Spanish expeditions arrived in the late 18th century.
The Vancouver Island Ranges, formerly called the Vancouver Island Mountains, is a mountain range extending along the length of Vancouver Island which has an area of 31,788 km² (12,273 sq; mi). The Vancouver Island Ranges comprise the central and largest part of the island. The Geological Survey of Canada refers to Vancouver Island, the Queen Charlotte Islands, and the Alaska Panhandle as the Insular Belt including the sea floor out to 100 km (62 mi) west of Vancouver Island. 