Function of the Respiratory System. The function of the human respiratory system is to transport air into the lungs and to facilitate the diffusion of Oxygen into the blood stream. Its also receives waste Carbon Dioxide from the blood and exhales it.
There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs...
The main function of the bronchi and bronchioles is to carry air from the trachea into the lungs. Smooth muscle tissue in their walls helps to regulate airflow into the lungs. When greater volumes of air are required by the body, such as during exercise, the smooth muscle relaxes to dilate the bronchi and bronchioles.
The trachea is an important structure within your respiratory system, which is the organ system that delivers oxygen to your bloodstream. The trachea is a rigid tube that conducts air from your larynx to your bronchi.
Your trachea is essentially an air-conducting tube (commonly known as your windpipe) that connects your larynx to the rest of your respiratory system. Though the cylindrical tube is only about three-quarters of an inch in diameter and 4 to 5 inches long, you wouldn't be able to survive without it.
The trachea, also known as windpipe, is a strong muscular tube located in front of the esophagus. It connects the nose and mouth to the lungs. It is an important part of the respiratory system. At the lower end, it splits into the left and right bronchi that enter in
The trachea (or windpipe) is a wide, hollow tube that connects the larynx (or voice box) to the bronchi of the lungs. It is an integral part of the body’s airway and has the vital function of providing air flow to and from the lungs for respiration.
Bronchi: The bronchi are the two air tubes that branch off of from the trachea and carry atmospheric air directly into the lungs. Lungs: The main organ of the respiratory system is lungs. Lungs are the site in body where oxygen is taken into and carbon dioxide is expelled out.