Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave. If using one of the last two quick-thaw methods, cook the chicken immediately.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
For dairy foods like milk, yogurt, cottage cheese, cheeses and butter, use the expiration date to determine how long they can safely be kept in your fridge. Many dairy products like milk safely last about two to three weeks. Cheeses and soy milk may last a few months. 
Chicken is best used within 2 days after thawing in the fridge. However, it will have a slightly different smell/odor if it is too old. Below I included a link that explains thawing times and methods for Chicken. I think it will be of great help in a lot of different chicken areas. Please read before cooking. 
Confidence votes 22.7K. Cooked chicken, if it has been handled, packaged and stored properly should stay reasonably good up to 4 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer if you freeze it. People constantly ask for some type of verification that the food they eat will not make them ill. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored. 1 How long does raw chicken last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 How long does raw chicken last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Cooked chicken, if it has been handled, packaged and stored properly should stay reasonably good up to 4 days in the refrigerator. You can keep it longer if you freeze it. Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil.  … . + 56 others found this useful. Kay Cook. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.