Toxic synovitis is a temporary condition that causes hip pain in children. It’s also known as transient synovitis. According to the Nemours Foundation, this condition is the leading cause of hip discomfort in kids (Brescia, 2011). It mainly occurs in children under 8 years of age. Toxic synovitis clears up in about one to two weeks in most cases, although it can last as long as five weeks. It can occur repeatedly in some children when they have viral infections such as colds. According to Pediatric Orthopedics in Practice, this happens in up to one-third of toxic synovitis cases.
The most common symptom of toxic synovitis is hip pain. This pain might occur on and off in one hip or both hips. It might flare up when your child gets up after sitting or lying down for a long time. Other symptoms include: 1  limping or walking on tiptoe due to discomfort. Toxic synovitis clears up in about one to two weeks in most cases, although it can last as long as five weeks. It can occur repeatedly in some children when they have viral infections such as colds. According to Pediatric Orthopedics in Practice, this happens in up to one-third of toxic synovitis cases.
Toxic synovitis of the hip is the most common form of arthritis in children. It appears suddenly, disappears suddenly, and causes no lasting problems. Thus, it is often called transient synovitis. Whenever children develop a limp they should be checked to be sure that the cause is not something that needs emergency treatment, such as septic arthritis. When the results come back, parents will often hear that the diagnosis is toxic synovitis. This sounds like bad news, but it is good news.
Background. Transient synovitis (TS) is the most common cause of acute hip pain in children aged 3-10 years. The disease causes arthralgia and arthritis secondary to a transient inflammation of the synovium of the hip. 
This condition is called transient because it lasts only a short time. Transient synovitis of the hip is the most common cause of sudden hip pain in children. Transient synovitis of the hip usually occurs in children between 3 and 10 years of age. Sometimes it occurs in children younger than 3 years of age. It is more common in boys than in girls.
Toxic Synovitis. Toxic Synovitis (also called “Transient Synovitis”) is an inflammatory arthritis in the hip. Among children it is the most common form of arthritis. It comes on suddenly but resolves in a few days with no lasting effects. Toxic synovitis is not contagious. It usually occurs in children 3-10 years of age after a viral infection. It may be related to the body’s immune response to the virus.
Transient synovitis usually affects children between three and ten years old (but it has been reported in a 3-month-old infant and in adults). It is the most common cause of sudden hip pain and limp in young children. Boys are affected two to four times as often as girls. Transient synovitis is a diagnosis of exclusion. The diagnosis can be made in the typical setting of pain or limp in a young child who is not generally unwell and has no recent trauma. There is a limited range of motion of the hip joint.
Transient synovitis of the hip (also called toxic synovitis; see below for more synonyms) is a self-limiting condition in which there is an inflammation of the inner lining (the synovium) of the capsule of the hip joint. Transient synovitis is a diagnosis of exclusion. The diagnosis can be made in the typical setting of pain or limp in a young child who is not generally unwell and has no recent trauma. There is a limited range of motion
Transient synovitis (TS) is inflammation of one or more joints that typically lasts 1 to 3 weeks. It can affect any joint, but most commonly occurs in the hip. It is sometimes called toxic synovitis or post infectious arthritis.. Sometimes children with TS will also have a skin rash. 