A current liability is an obligation that is payable within one year. The cluster of liabilities comprising current liabilities is closely watched, for a business must have sufficient liquidity to ensure that they can be paid off when due. The aggregate amount of current liabilities is a key component of several measures of the short-term liquidity of a business, including: 1  Current ratio. 2  This is current assets divided by current liabilities. 3  Quick ratio. 4  This is current assets minus inventory, divided by current liabilities. 5  Cash ratio.
Confidence votes 4.7K. Current liability is a liability that will be paid for in a short period of time, usually consisting of less than a year. Accounts payable are current liabilities, while notes payable are long term liabilities. Current liabilities are any liabilities that you can expect to pay off in a certain amount of time, one year or less. Long-term liabilities are liabilities that can not be reasonably expected to be paid off in a year or less, this can include mortgages, notes payable for things such as vehicles, etc.
In accounting, current liabilities are often understood as all liabilities of the business that are to be settled in cash within the fiscal year or the operating cycle of a given firm, whichever period is longer. One application is in the current ratio, defined as the firm's current assets divided by its current liabilities. A ratio higher than one means that current assets, if they can all be converted to cash, are more than sufficient to pay off current obligations.
Current liabilities are what a company currently owes to its suppliers and creditors. These are short-term debts, all due in less than a year. Paying them off normally requires the company to convert some of its current assets into cash. 
Yes, bill Payable would be considered a Current Liability as the company will pay the amount off in less than one year (or one accounting period). Current Liability as any lia … bility that will be...Yes, Current Liabilities are liabilities that will be paid off in one year or less. Current liabilities are any liabilities that you can expect to pay off in a certain amount of time, one year or less. Long-term liabilities are liabilities that can not be reasonably expected to be paid off in a year or less, this can include mortgages, notes payable for things such as vehicles, etc.
DEFINITION of 'Current Liabilities'. A company's debts or obligations that are due within one year. Current liabilities appear on the company's balance sheet and include short term debt, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other debts. Next Up. Analysts and creditors will often use the current ratio, (which divides current assets by liabilities), or the quick ratio, (which divides current assets minus inventories by current liabilities), to determine whether a company has the ability to pay off its current liabilities.
“ Current liabilities are calculated using the total of outstanding invoices that due to be paid to a company's vendors within the next 12 month period without consideration to any invoice terms. 
current liabilities. Obligations due within one year of the balance sheet date. (If a company's operating cycle is longer than one year, an item is a current liability if it is due within the operating cycle.) Another condition is that the item will use cash or it will create another current liability. (This means that if a bond payable is due within one year of the balance sheet date, but the bond will be retired by a bond sinking fund (a long-term restricted asset) the bond will not be reported as a current liability.).