The credit hours needed to earn a bachelor's degree depend upon the area that the student has chosen as a major. Typically the bachelor's degree can require between 120 and 128 credits. Some degrees require a bit more. For example, architecture is a five-year degree. Typically, a bachelor's program can last for up to 4 years and requires 120 to 130 credits. Also, depending upon what a student majors in, he is required to earn 30 to 50 credits as major credits. For elective courses, students usually require up to 30 credits. Number or credits required to complete a degree may also depend upon whether you pursue an online degree. A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 124 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or university that operates on a regular two semester academic year which is the most common
A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 124 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or universi … ty that operates on a regular two semester academic year, which is the most common. My BS required 35 units, which is 4 years of college. A BS/BA is 4 college years … .A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 120 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or universi … ty that operates on a regular two semester academic year
Report Abuse. To get a bachelor's degree, you need 120 hours or more. Most college classes are 3 hours (3 hours lecture a week), but some courses may be 1, 2, 4 or even five hours long. Most P.E. courses are 1 or 2 hours long. 
A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 124 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or university that … operates on a regular two semester academic year which is the most common. My BS required 35 units, which is 4 years of college. A BS/BA is 4 college years … .A bachelor's degree in most areas can require between 120 to 128 college credits particular to a specific program of study. This would be based on a college or universi … ty that
Requirements for All Bachelor's Degrees. Students must complete a minimum of 122 credit hours to graduate. At least 100 credit hours must be earned in courses offered by the College of Arts and Sciences. 
Credit Hours. The traditional credit hour requirements for a bachelor's degree at many colleges is 120. The College of Central Florida notes on its program website that 60 hours on top of an associate's degree is required for a bachelor's. This makes for a total of roughly 120 for the four years. Some programs may have slightly lower credit requirements
Find how many credits you need, info about college credit transfers and more. The number of credits needed to receive a bachelor degree based upon a full-time semester of 15 credits per (on average) is 120 college credits and takes approximately four years to complete. General Education College Credits. All colleges and universities have a set number of credit hours that are required to complete in order for a student to meet the general education requirements for their undergraduate bachelor program.