WHEREAS, tubal ligation and medical devices which affect the fallopian tubes for the purpose of birth control are conceived to be permanent forms of birth control also known as tubal occlusion or sterilization; and, 
Female sterilization is a procedure designed to make a woman infertile. It's done by blocking the fallopian tubes so sperm can't reach an egg and fertilize it. One sterilization method is tubal ligation (formerly known as getting your tubes tied) in which a doctor surgically closes the tubes. (It's also known as transcervical sterilization.) No cuts or abdominal incisions are necessary. Once the implants are in place, scar tissue forms around each device, permanently blocking the tubes. The procedure usually requires only local anesthesia and takes anywhere from a few minutes to half an hour.
However, female sterilization is a slightly more complex and expensive procedure than male sterilization (vasectomy). There are two main types of female sterilization: surgical and nonsurgical. A surgical procedure is tubal ligation, in which the fallopian tubes are cut and/or sealed. It is sometimes referred to as “getting your tubes tied.” The procedure is usually performed using laparoscopy. Laparoscopy is also known as minimally invasive surgery. There are also nonsurgical methods of sterilization. These procedures use devices placed in the fallopian tubes to seal them. A doctor must perform your sterilization. Depending on the procedure, it can be performed in a doctor’s office or the hospital. Make an appointment with your doctor to discuss female sterilization and determine if it is the best birth control option for you.
Female Sterilization. Sterilization is a permanent means of contraception. Tubal ligation (also known as tubal sterilization) has been the predominant method of female sterilization in industrialized countries since the late 1880s. A procedure called hysteroscopic sterilization is another method of permanent female sterilization. Hysteroscopic sterilization can be performed in a physician's office using local anesthesia, does not require an incision, and takes less than 20 minutes. After undergoing the procedure, most women are able to return to regular activities by the following day.
Female sterilization, also known as 'tubal ligation' or 'having your tubes tied', is a form of female contraception that works via a one time process in which the fallopian tubes are either cut or tied or sometimes blocked via the use of 'essure' which are spring like coils inserted via the vagina. 
Tubal ligation or tubectomy (also known as having one's tubes tied (ligation)) is a surgical procedure for sterilization in which a woman's fallopian tubes are clamped and blocked, or severed and sealed, either method of which prevents eggs from reaching the uterus for implantation. Pomeroy tubal ligation In this method of tubal ligation, a loop of tube is “strangled” with a suture. Usually, the loop is cut and the ends cauterized or “burned“. This type of tubal ligation is often referred to as cut, tied, and burned.
Tubal ligation: The fallopian tubes are cut, sealed, or tied. With this method, very tiny cuts (called incisions) are made in the abdomen or belly. This is also known as having tubes tied or tubal ligation. Surgical sterilization works to prevent pregnancy right away. Tubal implant: A very small spring-like coil is placed into each fallopian tube. The coils cause scar tissue to form in the tubes, thereby blocking the tubes. There are two different procedures to achieve this goal, tubal ligation and tubal implants. They both work by blocking the fallopian tubes (tubes that lead from women's ovaries into the uterus or womb) so that sperm cannot meet with and fertilize an egg.
Compulsory sterilization, also known as forced sterilization (or compulsory sterilisation respectively forced sterilisation – see spelling differences), programs are government policies which attempt to force people to undergo surgical or other sterilization. 
You must wait for at least six to eight weeks after your deliver to have nonsurgical sterilization. In this procedure, a doctor inserts small metallic implants into the fallopian tubes by way of the vagina and cervix. (It's also known as transcervical sterilization.) No cuts or abdominal incisions are necessary. Once the implants are in place, scar tissue forms around each device, permanently blocking the tubes. The procedure usually requires only local anesthesia and takes anywhere from a few minutes to half an hour.
Female Sterilization. Women who are looking for a permanent form of birth control may choose to have a tubal ligation, also known as getting your tubes tied or female sterilization. This surgical procedure to make a woman sterile is very effective at preventing pregnancy, with a failure rate as low as 0.4%. 