It explains the electromagnetic force: . is the charge on each particle, is the distance between them, and is a constant. So, if the distance between two particles is doubled, the force will be reduced four times. Double the charge would mean double the force, be it attractive or repulsive. 
4. B. Coulomb’s Law tells us that: the force between two particles is directly proportional to their charges and inversely proportional to the square of the distance between them. If the charge of one of the particles is doubled, then the force is doubled. If the distance between them is doubled, then the force is divided by four. Since the force is multiplied by two and divided by four, the net effect is that the force is halved. 5. 
If you double the distance between two charged objects, the electric force between them is reduced to 1/4th its original value. The rule is that the force is inversely p … roportional to the square of the distance separating the charges. If you double the distance, the force goes to 1/22 or 1/4. If you reduce the distance between them by 2, the force increases by 22 or 4. The force due to charge, the Coulomb force, is a force of repulsion between particles of the same charge. Coulomb attraction occurs between op … positely charged particles. That said, there are four fundamental forces in nature and the electromagnetic force in only one
The Effect of Particle Charge. The force between charged particles is directly related to the amount of charge carried by each particle. Aside from electrons and protons, most charged particles carry a variable amount of charge. Think of rubbing a balloon on your hair. The Effect of Distance Between Charges. The force between charged particles is very dependent on the distance between them, even more so than on the particle charges we just discussed. In Coulomb's equation, the distance between particles is represented by the term d.
Answer by Quirkyquantummechanic. Confidence votes 77.6K. If you double the distance between two charged objects, the electric force between them is reduced to 1/4th its original value. The rule is that the force is inversely proportional to the square of the distance separating the charges. If you double the distance, the force goes to 1/22 or 1/4. If you reduce the distance between them by 2, the force increases by 22 or 4. Electric force between two charged object varies inversely as the square of distance between them (Coulomb's Law). This means if two charged objects move away force between th … em decreases. For example: if distance between them is doubled then force becomes 1/4th of its initial value.
In this equation, and are the charges of the two particles, r is the distance between them, and k is a constant of proportionality. In a vacuum, this constant is Coulumb’s constant, , which is approximately N · m 2 / C 2. If we double one of the charges and double the value of r, we find: Doubling the charge on one of the particles doubles the electric force, but doubling the distance between the particles divides the force by four, so in all, the electric force is half as strong as before.
In comparison to the particle charges, a change to the distance has more influence on the force. However, the particle charges and distance always work together to affect the force. Finally, the unit of electric charge is called the coulomb. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. The Effect of Distance Between Charges. The force between charged particles is very dependent on the distance between them, even more so than on the particle charges we just discussed. In Coulomb's equation, the distance between particles is represented by the term d.
Answers. Best Answer: If you double both particles, the force between them would quadruple. The equation for the coulomb force is: F= k (Q1)(Q2)/ (r^2) If you're doubling Q1 and Q2, the coefficient would be four. Source(s): Coulomb's Law defends my answer. onefourfive · 7 years ago.