Peritonsillar abscess. Quinsy is a complication of tonsillitis. It is a collection of pus that develops between the back of one of your tonsils and the wall of your throat. This is known as an abscess. An abscess can develop when an infection spreads from a swollen tonsil to the surrounding area. 
A quinsy is another term for a peritonsillar abscess (PTA). It is a collection of pus in the throat (pharynx) region specifically between the tonsil tissue and the capsule surrounding it. A quinsy progresses from a tonsillitis to cellulitis and eventually an abscess forms. Quinsy Pathophysiology. Tonsillitis is a common infection of tissue in the throat. It is mainly caused by bacteria. When recurrent or chronic tonsillitis is left untreated and in severe cases, it can progress to cellulitis and then lead to pus accumulating in the potential space behind the tonsil.
Quinsy is also known as a peritonsillar abscess, which is a collection of pus that forms between the tonsil and the wall of the throat. It is caused primarily by infection with streptococcus bacteria. Quinsy is often a complication of untreated tonsillitis and is a common and painful condition. 
Peritonsillar abscess (PTA), also called a quinsy or abbreviated as PTA is a recognized complication of tonsillitis and consists of a collection of pus beside the tonsil in what is referred to as Peritonsilar space. The symptoms of quinsy, also called peritonsillar abscess, are similar to those of tonsillitis. They include: 1  A worsening sore throat, usually on one side. 2  A high temperature of 38 degrees C or above. 3  Difficulty opening your mouth. 4  Pain when eating and drinking. 5  Difficulty
Introduction. Quinsy, also known as a peritonsillar abscess, is a rare and potentially serious complication of tonsillitis. The abscess (a collection of pus) forms between one of your tonsils and the wall of your throat. This can happen when a bacterial infection spreads from an infected tonsil to the surrounding area. Quinsy can occur at any age, but most commonly affects teenagers and young adults.
Causes of a Quinsy. A quinsy is the result of a severe infection of the throat, whether of the tonsils or Weber glands on the soft palate. It is due to bacteria. There are several different species of bacteria that may be involved which can be divided into aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Quinsy Pathophysiology. Tonsillitis is a common infection of tissue in the throat. It is mainly caused by bacteria. When recurrent or chronic tonsillitis is left untreated and in severe cases, it can progress to cellulitis and then lead to pus accumulating in the potential space behind the tonsil.
Quinsy or to be more precise ‘peritonsillar abscess formation’starts as an inflammation of the tonsils, accompanied by a sore throat as well. It usually affects one tonsil in particular and develops into two pus-filled abscesses on the tonsils. One theory is that quinsy occurs as a complication of tonsillitis. This is said to happen if tonsillitis is left untreated or if it not treated properly. The second theory is a problem with the Weber’s glands. These glands lie just above the tonsils and produce saliva to clear away any germs or debris from this area.
Peritonsillar abscess (PTA), also known as a quinsy or quinsey, is a recognized complication of tonsillitis and consists of a collection of pus beside the tonsil in what is referred to as peritonsillar space (peri —meaning surrounding). 
Peritonsillar Abscess. Peritonsillar abscess (also known as quinsy) is a pus-producing infection occurring in the cavity at the back of the throat, near the tonsils. Quinsy is usually a complication of tonsillitis, a bacterial infection of the tonsils. The infection may spread to the soft palate (the back of the roof of the mouth) or may travel down the throat into the chest.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Quinsy is an abscess between the back of the tonsil and the wall of the throat. It's also known as a peritonsillar abscess. It happens when infection spreads from a swollen tonsil to the area around it, usually during a severe case of tonsillitis. The symptoms of quinsy are similar to tonsillitis and include: Quinsy is now rare because most people get effective treatment for tonsillitis early enough to prevent it. Quincy may be suspected if you have a sore throat that gets a lot worse very quickly, or tonsillitis with more severe symptoms than normal.