Women should approximately .5 to 1 milligrams of creatine for every deciliter (1/10 of a liter) of blood while men can have a lightly higher concentration of creatine, capping out at around 1.2 milligrams a deciliter. Use free fitness report card to get started on your road to wellness today! Essentially, all creatine tests are actually analyzing the amount of creatinine you have in your blood and or urine. Since creatine is also found in protein rich foods such as red meat, eating meats in excess can cause your creatinine and creatine levels to be elevated.
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impai
Your doctor can calculate the GFR based on gender, age, body size, and blood creatinine level. ... This test will also show whether your kidneys are clearing creatinine at a normal ... Lowering both cholesterol and triglyceride levels to the normal range can slow the progression of ... A higher-than-normal level of creatinine in your blood could be a sign of early kidney disease, he says. What the numbers mean: “ Normal creatinine value is about 1 mg/dL. Typically, if renal function is declining, the creatinine values start rising,” Dr. Reddy says. ...
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
The typical levels of creatinine in a healthy adult depends on several factors, including age, gender and activity levels. Traditionally, the average level of creatinine in a man is about 1 to 2 grams. For women, the average levels of creatinine are only slightly lower, ranging from about half a gram to one gram. Yes, creatine levels can fluctuate. The levels of creatine in your body will change based on many factors, including diet, exercise, medications and overall stress levels. Creatine is a molecule found within the body, and is developed simply by the food that you consume. This food turns into energy as it metabolizes.
Approximately 2% of the body's creatine is converted to creatinine every day. Creatinine is transported through the bloodstream to the kidneys. The kidneys filter out most of the creatinine and dispose of it in the urine. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function.
A patient with a greater muscle mass will have a higher creatinine level. While a baseline serum creatinine of 2.0 mg/dL (150 μmol/L) may indicate normal kidney function in a male body builder, a serum creatinine of 1.6 mg/dL (110 μmol/L) can indicate significant renal disease in an elderly female. Each day, 1-2% of muscle creatine is converted to creatinine. Men tend to have higher levels of creatinine than women because, in general, they have a greater mass of skeletal muscle. Increased dietary intake of creatine or eating a lot of protein (like meat) can increase daily creatinine excretion.
The normal range for serum creatinine (in the blood) is usually between 0.6 and 1.3 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) although it varies between labs, between men and women, and by age. ... A high serum creatinine level means your kidneys aren't working well. A higher-than-normal level of creatinine in your blood could be a sign of early kidney disease, he says. What the numbers mean: “ Normal creatinine value is about 1 mg/dL. Typically, if renal function is declining, the creatinine values start rising,” Dr. Reddy says. ...
This waste includes creatinine, and the waste is released through the urine. George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Normal Levels of Creatinine. According to Frederick Hecht, MD, the average normal levels of creatinine in men are 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter, and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in women. These numbers rarely ever change unless there is a problem. 