Vegetable shortening has a neutral flavor, unlike butter or lard, and can be used for applications where strong fat flavors are not desired. Some vegetable shortenings have artifical butter flavor added to them and are used as an inexpensive replacement for butter. Shortening refers to the process of a fat interfering with the formation of a gluten matrix in dough. This process is important for many baked goods, such as pie crusts, because gluten creates a gummy or chewy end product.
In general, the term shortening can apply to any oil-or. -based ingredient – liquid or solid-used in baking. More specifically, recipes use the term to mean solid vegetable shortening rather than those made from animal fats (including lard, which is from pork). Vegetable-based shortening is lower in. than. . 
July 9, 2009 in Baking, Ingredients 17 Comments. Shortening is a type of solid fat that is made from vegetable oils, such as soybean and cottonseed oil. Shortening seems to get its name from the fact that it shortens gluten strands in wheat by adding fat. Since it is 100%, as opposed to the 80% fat content of butter or lard, it results in a very tender baked good. Shortening is made by a process called hydrogenation, which involves add extra hydrogen atoms to the aforementioned vegetable fats and turns them into solids, rather than liquids. This process of turning the previously unhydrogenated oil into a partially hydrogenated fat with trans fatty acids.
Shortening is any fat that is solid at room temperature and used to make crumbly pastry and other food products. Shortening is used in pastries that should not be elastic, such as cake. Although butter is solid at room temperature and is frequently used in making pastry, the term shortening seldom refers to butter, but is more closely related to margarine. Originally shortening was synonymous with lard, but with the invention of margarine by French chemist Hippolyte Mege-Mège mouries mouriès, in 1869 margarine also came to be included in. the term
Report Abuse. Shortening is another name for the fat used in making pastry, bread or in this case a cake. You may use Crisco, or other shortening, real butter, or some margarines. In some cakes you could also substitute oil for the shortening but again you would have to reconfigure the amount of liquid that you would then add. You can also use prune butter to reduce the amount of fat in the cake. There is a commercial brand made by Baker's which will give you the exact substitution equivelents.
Best Answer: fat! use butter, vegetable oil or margarine! use in equal amounts as listed for shortening! they ere referring to something like crisco shortening! I always substitute butter for shortening--always, always, always. I just can't get past the can of Crisco. In some cakes you could also substitute oil for the shortening but again you would have to reconfigure the amount of liquid that you would then add. You can also use prune butter to reduce the amount of fat in the cake. There is a commercial brand made by Baker's which will give you the exact substitution equivelents.
In baking, shortening is used with pastries, pie crusts and biscuits to make them flaky. It is also used in frying or deep-frying as a liquid. However, there may be times when you want to substitute shortening in a recipe with something else--whether it's for health reasons, principles, or lack of shortening on hand. It is not appropriate to use oil unless shortening is to be used in a melted form, such as for frying. Olive oil is generally the best oil to substitute for shortening, as it is healthier than most. However, olive oil is not appropriate for baked goods which are sweet. In these cases, go with a different vegetable oil.
Shortening is any type of solid fat used to prevent the formation of a gluten matrix in baked goods. Lard, hydrogenated (solidified) oils, and even butter can be used as shortening, although in the mainstream market shortening often refers solely to hydrogenated oils. Shortening refers to the process of a fat interfering with the formation of a gluten matrix in dough. This process is important for many baked goods, such as pie crusts, because gluten creates a gummy or chewy end product.
Vegetable oil like soybean or cottonseed oil is used to make a solid fat, which is referred to as shortening. The name shortening is derived because when it is used along with flour, it shortens the gluten strands. Shortening is 100% fat, as compared to 80% fat in butter or lard. Cooking Oil. The best type of oil which can substitute shortening is olive oil, since it is healthier than other oils. It should be used in the same quantity as shortening: 1 cup for 1 cup. Note: Oil as a substitute should be only used when shortening has to be used in melted form, like in frying.