Definition of AUSPICE. 1. : observation by an augur especially of the flight and feeding of birds to discover omens. 2. 3. : a prophetic sign; especially: a favorable sign. See auspice defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
F. auspice. See Auspicate, a.] 1. A divining or taking of omens by observing birds; an omen as to an undertaking, drawn from birds; an augury; an omen or sign in general; an indication as to the future. [1913 Webster] 2. Protection; patronage and care; guidan
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. auspices If something is done under the auspices of a particular person or organization, or under someone's auspices, it is done with their support and approval. FORMAL ♦ under the auspices of/ under someone's auspices phrase PHR n. auspices. If something is done under the auspices of a particular person or organization, or under someone's auspices, it is done with their support and approval.
auspices noun [plural]. under the auspices of sb/sth › with the ​protection or ​support of someone or something, ​especially an ​organization: Financial ​aid is being ​provided to the ​country under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund. auspices noun [plural]. under the auspices of sth › with the ​protection or ​support of something, especially an ​organization: The ​negotiations are being ​conducted under the auspices of the WTO. (Definition of auspices from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press)
auspices noun [plural]. under the auspices of sb/sth › with the ​protection or ​support of someone or something, ​especially an ​organization: Financial ​aid is being ​provided to the ​country under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund. How many is a billion? The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States.
auspices noun [plural]. under the auspices of sth › with the ​protection or ​support of something, especially an ​organization: The ​negotiations are being ​conducted under the auspices of the WTO. (Definition of auspices from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). How many is a billion? The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States.
auspices. plural noun support, backing, control, charge, care, authority, championship, influence, protection, guidance, sponsorship, supervision, patronage, advocacy, countenance, aegis a peace conference under the auspices of the UN. Translations. According to the narrative of the German doctor, Ferdinand Werne, the expedition attempted in 1840, under the auspices of Mehemet Ali, stopped at Gondokoro, between the fourth and fifth parallels of north latitude. Five Weeks in a Balloon by Verne, Jules View in context.