An arachnoid cyst usually develops in the head, but may also develop around the spinal cord. It is named an arachnoid cyst because it occurs in the space between the brain (or spinal column) and the arachnoid membrane. This is one of three membrane layers surrounding the brain and spine. 
Arachnoid cysts are the most common type of brain cyst. They are congenital lesions that occur as a result of the splitting of the arachnoid membrane. The cysts are fluid-filled sacs, not tumors, appearing in one of the three layers of tissue covering the central nervous system. 
Print. Arachnoid cysts are cysts, not tumors. They are fluid-filled sacs that develop between the brain/spinal cord and a membrane called the arachnoid membrane, one of three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. 
Arachnoid cysts are cerebrospinal fluid covered by arachnoidal cells and collagen that may develop between the surface of the brain and the cranial base or on the arachnoid membrane, one of the three membranes that cover the brain and the spinal cord. Classification [edit]. Arachnoid cysts can be found on the brain or on the spine. Intracranial arachnoid cysts usually occur adjacent to the arachnoidal cistern. Spinal arachnoid cysts may be extradural, intradural, or perineural and tend to present with signs and symptoms indicative of a radiculopathy.
An arachnoid cyst is a fluid-filled cyst that that occurs in the arachnoid membrane around the brain. While completely benign, and not a tumor per se, they can cause symptoms by compression of adjacent nervous system structures. The cyst wall is basically just arachnoid membrane and the cyst is filled with fluid which is essentially the same as cerebrospinal fluid. Some cysts do not appear to change in size while others can grow over time, compression adjacent neurological
Arachnoid cysts are cerebrospinal fluid-filled sacs that are located between the brain or spinal cord and the arachnoid membrane, one of the three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. 
Cerebrospinal fluid is mainly contained between the arachnoid layer and pia mater. An arachnoid cyst forms when the layers of the arachnoid membrane split apart and become filled with cerebrospinal fluid. Common symptoms of arachnoid cysts are headaches, nausea, vomiting, and balance issues. 
Arachnoid cysts develop between the brain or spinal cord and the arachnoid membrane. This is one of three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. The fluid in the cyst often is cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) , a clear liquid that protects and nourishes the brain and spinal cord. 
Arachnoid cysts are fluid-filled sacs that develop between the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and the arachnoid membrane, one of three protective membranes that surround the central nervous system. 