Published Wednesday, June 17, 2015 7:34AM EDT. The U.S. FDA is phasing out artificial trans fats from the food supply, but people should limit their intake of saturated fats, too, which can also cause heart disease. There are three main types of fat: unsaturated, saturated and trans fats. UNSATURATED FAT: These are the good fats, and doctors say they should be the majority of fat that people eat. For cooking, they usually come in the form of liquid oils, not solid fats. Unsaturated fats are listed on food packages as polyunsaturated fats and monounsaturated fats.
Trans fats, or trans-unsaturated fatty acids, trans fatty acids, are a type of unsaturated fats that are uncommon in nature but became commonly produced industrially from vegetable fats for use in margarine, snack food, packaged baked goods and frying fast food starting in the 1950s. In other countries, there are legal limits to trans fat content. Trans fats levels can be reduced or eliminated using saturated fats such as lard, palm oil or fully hydrogenated fats, or by using interesterified fat.
In Health. Most foods which contain any fat supply both. The foods most rich in saturated fats are from animal source-butter, pork, liver Unsaturated fats are found in most oily pl … ant origin foods like nuts, seeds, olives, however salmon, eggs (and other animal source lean produce) also contain unsaturated fats. Grace Saville. 29,275 Contributions. 
Fats contain long hydrocarbon chains, which can either be unsaturated, i.e. have double bonds, or saturated, i.e. have no double bonds. In nature, unsaturated fatty acids generally have cis as opposed to trans configurations. In other countries, there are legal limits to trans fat content. Trans fats levels can be reduced or eliminated using saturated fats such as lard, palm oil or fully hydrogenated fats, or by using interesterified fat.
(Redirected from Unsaturated fats). An unsaturated fat is a fat or fatty acid in which there is at least one double bond within the fatty acid chain. A fatty acid chain is monounsaturated if it contains one double bond, and polyunsaturated if it contains more than one double bond. Where double bonds are formed, hydrogen atoms are eliminated. In cellular metabolism, unsaturated fat molecules contain somewhat less energy (i.e., fewer calories) than an equivalent amount of saturated fat. The greater the degree of unsaturation in a fatty acid (i.e., the more double bonds in the fatty acid) the more vulnerable it is to lipid peroxidation (rancidity).
Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. This causes  saturated fats to be solid at room temperature, for instance the  fat on meat and coconut oil. Unsaturated fat … s are liquid at room  temperature, corn oil and soy oil are some examples of this. 4 people found this useful.
Most foods which contain any fat supply both. The foods most rich in saturated fats are from animal source-butter, pork, liver. Unsaturated fats are found in most oily plant origin foods like nuts, seeds, olives, however salmon, eggs (and other animal source lean produce) also contain unsaturated fats. This causes  saturated fats to be solid at room temperature, for instance the  fat on meat and coconut oil. Unsaturated fat … s are liquid at room  temperature, corn oil and soy oil are some examples of this. 4 people found this useful.
To increase your intake of unsaturated fats, try replacing other fatty foods with these 5 items: Olive oil is full of healthy unsaturated fats. 1 Tbsp. of oil has almost 12 grams of unsaturated fat and only 2 grams of the saturated stuff. In addition, olive oil provides a heart-friendly dose of both omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. Mix it with vinegar to create salad dressings and use it to cook meat or veggie