On the ingredient list, words that indicate whole grain include whole rye flour, rye meal, rye kernels and rye flakes. Most rye breads are not made entirely of whole grains; many include refined wheat flour or refined rye flour in addition to whole grains. Ideally, choose a rye bread that lists a whole grain at the top of the ingredient list.
Where it’s made: Rye was historically made in the Northeast, but today, it’s most frequently made by distilleries that also produce (and are usually better known for) bourbon. What defines it: Rye whiskey is made from mash that is at least 51 percent rye. The grain gives rye whiskey its spicy, sometimes peppery, flavor.
The first is a high-rye bourbon. This term refers to a bourbon with a large amount of rye grain in the mash bill. From the MGP plant in Indiana, that means the bourbon is 60% corn, 36% rye, and 4% malted barley. The other product is what I'll be talking about here: rye whiskey.
Rye is a cereal grain closely related to wheat and barley. Rye is popular in Eastern Europe with most of the world's crops grown in Russia, Poland, and Germany. Many common food and beverages contain rye, including bread, crackers, beer, and whiskey.
Rye Bread. Because rye flour contains very little gluten, it is often combined with wheat flour to make bread. Gluten in the wheat flour allows the loaf to rise and become airy, as opposed to the flat, dense texture of 100% rye flour loaves. Rye bread can be made with light or dark rye flours.
Rye whiskey is made from rye and malt, and depending on the recipe (“mash bill”) smaller amounts of other grains, including wheat and corn. The addition of other grains in addition to rye appears to be a more recent addition to the standard recipe.
Rye's mash bill must, by law, consist of at least 51% rye. Most rye whiskeys use malted barley or corn as the other grains. As with bourbon, ground grain is mixed with water and a bit of mash from a previous distillation, in what's known as a sour-mash process. This introduces yeasts from the previous distillation.
1 Rye most often gets processed into flour for bread or fed to livestock. 2  Most rye breads are a mix of rye and wheat flours, while Scandinavian-style black bread is made of pure rye flour. 3  But baked goods aren’t the only way to consume rye.