A: Xanax (alprazolam) is in a drug class called benzodiazepines. Xanax is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder. Xanax is also used for the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms. Xanax is also used to treat panic disorders. A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine.
Uses. Alprazolam is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. It belongs to a class of medications called benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect. It works by enhancing the effects of a certain natural chemical in the body (GABA). How to use Xanax. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor. Dosage is based on your medical condition, age, and response to treatment. Your dose may be gradually increased until the drug starts working well. Follow your doctor's instructions closely to reduce the risk of side effects.
2. Understand what Xanax is prescribed for. Most often, Xanax is prescribed for anxiety. You may also have it prescribed for panic disorder, though sometimes doctors are reluctant to prescribe it for this condition, as you often get panic attacks when you are relaxed. Sometimes, it is used a sleep aid in a mild dosage. 3
A: Xanax (alprazolam) is in a drug class called benzodiazepines. Xanax is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders and panic disorders. Xanax is thought to work by affecting brain chemicals and lessening abnormal brain excitement. A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine.
Xanax is the brand name of alprazolam, a prescription drug used to treat anxiety disorders. Xanax is prescribed for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , anxiety associated with depression, and panic disorder. Other uses include treatment of depression and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) . A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine.
Xanax® is one of the most commonly seen drugs in prescription drug abuse treatment. Xanax is classified as a benzodiazepine. Benzodiazepines are sedatives or tranquilizers that depress the central nervous system. They are usually prescribed to treat anxiety disorders. Xanax® is one of the most commonly found cases in prescription drug abuse treatment. For some, it is so easy to obtain. Three out of every four drugs used illegally in the U.S. are prescription drugs. According to the government, abuse of prescription drugs has doubled in the past 10 years.
Xanax is usually prescribed for tension, anxiety, some sleep disorders, panic disorders, irritability, also some times used for chest pain. Drowsiness or light-headedness might be few of the side effects of this drug. 
Xanax is a central nervous system depressant classified as a benzodiazepine. It is commonly prescribed to treat anxiety, panic disorders, insomnia, and acute stress reactions. Xanax produces a calming effect in the brain and helps the body relax. 
Xanax is the brand name for a drug called alprazolam. Xanax is a type of medication called a benzodiazepine, which is a central nervous system depressant that decreases abnormal excitement in the brain. Doctors most frequently prescribe Xanax as a tablet, but it can also come in a liquid concentration as well. 