-The choice made by overweight people to eat more food than necessary and food that's not good for them is to blame for their obesity. -In this Forbes article, the AAP (American Academy of Pediatrics) agrees that fast food is not to blame for obesity. -Walking is inconvenient for overweight people; and is only necessary when there is food or sleep as a reward. -Therefore, motor scooters are ideal for obese people because they don't have to walk anywhere. -Laziness should be blamed for obesity. -The article concludes that fast food is not to blame for obesity. -People who live closer to fast food restaurants are not found to be any more/less obese than those who live greater distances awa
The simple fact that fast food restaurants and obesity have both increased over time is insufficient proof of this link, as are studies that rely on differences in fast food consumption across individuals, since people who eat more fast food may be prone to other behaviors that affect obesity. Overall, the study suggests that proximity to fast food significantly increases the risk of obesity. One possible explanation is that proximity to fast food reduces the costs of fast food, principally travel costs. A second explanation is that easier access to fast food tempts consumers who have self-control problems.
'This is really what is driving children's obesity,' said Popkin. 'Eating fast foods is just one behavior that results from those bad habits. Just because children who eat more fast food are the most likely to become obese does not prove that calories from fast foods bear the brunt of the blame.'. Researchers for the study found that while fast food does contribute to unhealthy children, the main culprit for childhood obesity is learned dietary habits children observe at home.
It's not fast food that's the main reason American kids are fat, but the lack of fruits and vegetables and too much processed foods, says a new study. The main reason many American kids are fat isn't fast food, says a new study. Rather, it’s a poor, overall diet that includes too much processed foods and not enough fruits and vegetables.
The study presented strong evidence that the children's diet beyond fast food consumption is more strongly linked to poor nutrition and obesity, said co-author Jennifer Poti. While reducing fast-food intake is important, the rest of a child's diet should not be overlooked.. The main reason many American kids are fat isn't fast food, says a new study. Rather, it’s a poor, overall diet that includes too much processed foods and not enough fruits and vegetables.
January 8, 2013 (sharma-obesity-headless-person1) (db2609-im-luggin-it) (fatscooter) (Blaming Fast Food) (fast-food-tattoos) (091312lunchmcdonalds_512x288) (wallefatties) -As seen in the film WALL-E, laziness and a sedentary lifestyle are to blame for obesity, not the consumption of fast food. -Walking is inconvenient for overweight people; and is only necessary when there is food or sleep as a reward. -Therefore, motor scooters are ideal for obese people because they don't have to walk anywhere. -Laziness should be blamed for obesity. -The article concludes that fast food is not to blame for obesity. -People who live closer to fast food restaurants are not found to be any more/less obese than those who live greater distances away
Claim: People's choices about exercise and their eating habits should be blamed for obesity, not fast food. Counterargument: Fast food should be blamed for obesity. Rebuttal: Obese people make the choice to eat fast food, they are not forced to. -Walking is inconvenient for overweight people; and is only necessary when there is food or sleep as a reward. -Therefore, motor scooters are ideal for obese people because they don't have to walk anywhere. -Laziness should be blamed for obesity. -The article concludes that fast food is not to blame for obesity. -People who live closer to fast food restaurants are not found to be any more/less obese than those who live greater distances away
Study reveals parents' poor eating habits are to blame for childhood obesity, NOT fast food. 1  A study conducted at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill found that poor eating habits linked to obesity are learned in children's homes. Researchers for the study found that while fast food does contribute to unhealthy children, the main culprit for childhood obesity is learned dietary habits children observe at home.
comments. Fast food is not to blame for childhood obesity, poor eating habits learned in children's home are, says a new study conducted by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Researchers for the study found that while fast food does contribute to unhealthy children, the main culprit for childhood obesity is learned dietary habits children observe at home.