The temporal muscle, also known as the temporalis, is one of the muscles of mastication. It is a broad, fan-shaped muscle on each side of the head that fills the temporal fossa, superior to the zygomatic arch so it covers much of the temporal bone.
The temporalis muscle is one of the three muscles of mastication, the other two being the masseter and the medial pterygoid (which is also known as the 'internal pterygoid muscle'). The temporalis is one of the muscles of the head, neck, and face taught as part of many courses in Indian Head Massage. This section is about the Muscles of Face and Neck. The temporalis is a facial muscle, one of a pair of which one is located on either side of the head, slightly above and forward of each ear. An example of a function of the temporalis muscle is to. .
Masseter and temporalis muscles. The masseter runs from the temporal bone (that forms part of the sides and base of the skull) to the lower jaw (the mandible). It lifts the lower jaw, to close the mouth. The masseter is the strongest muscle in your body. The temporalis begins on two bones of the skull, at the front (the frontal) and at the side and base (the temporal). It runs to the top of the lower jaw (the mandible). Like the masseter, the temporalis helps close the mouth.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the function of the temporalis (muscular system) is to muscle extending from the temporal fossa to the coronoid process of the mandible; acts to raise the mandible and close the jaws. 
temporalis muscle (tempəral´is) , n one of the four muscles of mastication. It arises in a fan-shaped pattern from the squama of the temporal bone and courses downward to insert along the anterior border of the ramus of the mandible. 
Jaw Elevator. Primary function of the temporalis is to close the jaw. The temporalis is a muscle that is commonly involved with people who have tempromandibular joint (TMJ) disorders. Pain is referred throughout the temple and along the eyebrow, behind the eye, and felt in any or all of the upper teeth on the same side
Anatomy and supply. The temporal muscle, also know as the temporalis, is a flat, fan-shaped muscle of mastication on the lateral side of the skull. Due to its size it can be palpated without difficulty, especially when the patient opens and closes his mouth alternately. It arises from the temporal fossa, a large depression on the side of the skull, and the temporal fascia which completely covers the surface of the muscle. From there, the muscle descends through the gap between the zygomatic arch and the skull, forms a thick tendon and inserts at the coronoid process of mandible.
the function of the temporalis (muscular system) is to muscle extending from the temporal fossa to the coronoid process of the mandible; acts to raise the mandible and close … the jaws. 13 people found this useful. 
Temporalis. The temporal muscle, or temporalis muscle, is one of several chewing muscles that is necessary for crushing and grinding objects between the molars. Due to its location and frequent use, this muscle may be a primary focal point for a recurring condition known as “tension headaches.”. The temporal muscle receives its blood supply from the deep temporal arteries. Innervation or control of this muscle comes from the trigeminal nerve's mandibular branch. The deep temporal nerves in this third branch control all of the mastication (chewing) muscles.