Himalayan crystal salt is far superior to traditional iodized salt. Himalayan salt is millions of years old and pure, untouched by many of the toxins and pollutants that pervade other forms of ocean salt. Table salt: “The Health Destroyer”. Many people are unaware that common table salt contains chemicals and even sugar! Salt is necessary but can be dangerous if taken in this chemical form. Table salt is composed of 97.5% sodium chloride and 2.5% chemicals like iodine and absorbents, and sugar.
I have gotten iodized sea salt but it is not always available. Answer: Himalayan Crystal Salt doesn’t have any added Iodine like the Iodized salts do, so you would still want to ensure you are getting at least the RDA of Iodine from other sources in your diet or with the help of iodine supplements. Himalayan Crystal Salt Aluminum Levels/Content. 
267 Followers. A. Raw salt of any kind, from any source, does not contain iodine. This includes sea salt, rock salt and any other natural form of salt. Salt distributors began adding iodine to sodium chloride (table salt) around the 1920s when scientists discovered iodine is essential to thyroid health
There is table salt, sea salt, iodized salt, rock salt, kosher salt, popcorn salt, margarita salt, fleur de sel... the list goes on and on. The only differences are in two areas the chemicals added during processing, and the size (coarseness) of the grains. Period. That's it. Let's look at the additives first. Iodized salt is a form of table salt which has had iodine added to it to prevent a disease called goiter. Goiter is characterized by the swelling of the thyroid gland due to iodine deficiency. Iodine is a nutrient that usually occurs naturally in vegetables, which absorb it through the soil in which they grow.
Today's common table salt has nothing in common with natural salt. Your table salt is actually 97.5% sodium chloride and 2.5% chemicals such as moisture absorbents, and iodine. Dried at over 1,200 degrees Fahrenheit, the excessive heat alters the natural chemical structure of the salt. Himalayan Crystal Salt is salt in its native form, with all its vibrational energy intact and it helps promote a healthy balance in your body. Promoting balanced electrolytes helps to keep your body in homeostasis -- the balance of chemicals that is conducive to the body's function.
Iodine (in the form of iodide) is added to table salt to help prevent iodine deficiency. Since the 1980s there have been efforts to have universal salt iodization. This has been an affordable and effective way to combat iodine deficiency around the world, but not all salt contains iodine, however. In this activity you should have seen that the iodized table salt and the lite table salt solutions both changed to a blue-purple color (as did the iodine antiseptic solution, if you used it). This indicates that iodide is present in these types of salts.
Salt with added iodine is called iodized salt. It's important for most people to eat iodized salt at least occasionally in order to maintain thyroid health. If you don't have thyroid problems, you don't need to eat iodized salt all the time. You can use fancy salt like Himalayan rock salt. A. Raw salt of any kind, from any source, does not contain iodine. This includes sea salt, rock salt and any other natural form of salt. Salt distributors began adding iodine to sodium chloride (table salt) around the 1920s when scientists discovered iodine is essential to thyroid health
The list shows all the trace minerals, electrolytes, and elements contained in Himalayan salt. Himalayan salt is a rock salt popular among health food advocates who seek it for the nutritional value of its fairly abundant trace minerals. 