Evolutionary psychology applies the same thinking to psychology. Most research in evolutionary psychology focuses on humans. Evolutionary psychologists argue that much of human behavior is generated by psychological adaptations that evolved to solve recurrent problems in human ancestral environments.
Some evolutionary psychologists apply the same thinking to psychology, arguing that the mind has a modular structure similar to that of the body, with different modular adaptations serving different functions. Evolutionary psychologists hold that behaviors or traits that occur universally in all cultures are good candidates for evolutionary adaptations including the abilities to infer others' emotions, discern kin from non-kin, identify and prefer healthier mates, and cooperate with others.
As defined by Tooby and Cosmides: Evolutionary psychology is simply psychology that is informed by the additional knowledge that evolutionary biology has to offer, in the expectation that understanding the process that designed the human mind will advance the discovery of its architecture.. A MORE DETAILED EXPLANATION: At the core of evolutionary psychology is the belief that all humans on the planet have innate areas in their brains which have specific knowledge that help them adapt to local environments. These areas are highly specialized, and only activate when the information is needed.
Evolutionary psychology (EP) is a theoretical approach in the social and natural sciences that examines psychological structure from a modern evolutionary perspective. Evolutionary psychologists hold that behaviors or traits that occur universally in all cultures are good candidates for evolutionary adaptations including the abilities to infer others' emotions, discern kin from non-kin, identify and prefer healthier mates, and cooperate with others.
Evolutionary psychology is the science that seeks to explain through universal mechanisms of behavior why humans act the way they do. A MORE DETAILED EXPLANATION: At the core of evolutionary psychology is the belief that all humans on the planet have innate areas in their brains which have specific knowledge that help them adapt to local environments. These areas are highly specialized, and only activate when the information is needed
Introduction. The goal of research in evolutionary psychology is to discover and understand the design of the human mind. Evolutionary psychology is an approach to psychology, in which knowledge and principles from evolutionary biology are put to use in research on the structure of the human mind. It is not an area of study, like vision, reasoning, or social behavior. 
Evolutionary psychology (EP) attempts to explain mental and psychological traits —such as memory, perception, or language —as adaptations, that is, as the functional products of natural selection or sexual selection. Most research in evolutionary psychology focuses on humans. Evolutionary psychologists argue that much of human behavior is generated by psychological adaptations that evolved to solve recurrent problems in human ancestral environments.
Evolutionary Psychology. In its broad sense, the term evolutionary psychology stands for any attempt to adopt an evolutionary perspective on human behavior by supplementing psychology with the central tenets of evolutionary biology. 5. In its broad sense, evolutionary psychology attempts to adopt an evolutionary perspective on human behavior and psychology (Barrett et al. 2002, 1) by applying Darwinian reasoning to behavioral, cognitive, social, or cultural characteristics of humans.
Evolutionary psychology is a branch of psychology which investigates behaviour which has evolved. It is similar in this respect to ethology, which has always used ideas from evolutionary biology. 