10 Health Benefits of Maca Powder. Maca powder is definitely one of the lesser-known health foods, but that doesn’t mean it isn’t worth taking your time to learn about it. Maca powder is a product that comes from the process of grinding a root called maca which is related to the radish. While you can buy the root in fresh form, it is most commonly sold as a powder because this makes it far more versatile for cooking or incorporating into health products. 
Maca is a plant found exclusively in Peru and has been cultivated there for more than 2,000 years. There are different types of maca, including yellow, red and black maca. It's taken as a nutritional supplement in powder form and traditionally has been used as medicine. Research shows that maca powder has many health benefits both for healthy people and for those living with various conditions, ailments and diseases.
Maca is a root that was originated in South Africa. It is used as a fertility plant for women who have an inability to produce children. maca root (lepidium meyenii) is a ve … getable that originates in Peru in the Andes Mountains. It is not a drug, or a hormone or a chemical. Maca is a potent superfood with a 5,000+ year history yet has only been recently introduced to the Western world. Hailed as Nature's Viagra and Peruvian Ginseng maca has a lot to offer both genders of all ages, as well as boasting a wide and impressive range of nutritional properties.
MACA Overview Information. Maca is a plant that grows in central Peru in the high plateaus of the Andes mountains. It has been cultivated as a vegetable crop in Peru for at least 3000 years. Maca is a relative of the radish and has an odor similar to butterscotch. Its root is used to make medicine. Maca is used for “tired blood ” (anemia); chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS); and enhancing energy, stamina, athletic performance, memory, and fertility.
Maca is a type of plant found in Peru, and is used as a food and as a traditional medicine. It has properties that are similar to ginseng and has been touted as a beneficial supplement for energy and physical stamina, as well as for improving libido. Its potential value, however, extends beyond those qualities. 
Fast forward to today, and Maca route is becoming a very popular “superfood” and herb. Maca root, also known in science land as Lepidium meyenii or Lepidium Peruvianum, has been prized for generations as an energy enhancer and mood stabilizer. Maca root has the capability to regulate, support, and balance the hormonal systems of both men and women. Hello promising anti-acne herb! And since it’s boosting the hormones, it may also help with fertility, digestion, energy levels, and all things sexual.
Lepidium meyenii (maca) is an herbaceous biennial plant of the crucifer family native to the high Andes of Peru was found at the Meseta of BomBom close to Junin Lake in the Andes. It is grown for its fleshy hypocotyl (a fused hypocotyl and taproot), which is used as a root vegetable and a medicinal herb. 
Maca, a root that belongs to the radish family, is most commonly available in powder form. Grown in the mountains of Peru, it has been called “Peruvian ginseng.” Maca’s benefits have been long valued, and has recently been popularized as a supplement and food ingredient. When you first start using maca, it’s best to begin by taking smaller amounts and building up; even 1/2 teaspoon is a good place to start. And at the other end, 1 tablespoons (of the powder) is an average daily dose.
Simply speaking, maca is really a root that will grow in the Andes mountains of Peru.This root has been used like a food source for hundreds of years, and many Peruvians use it for its medicinal purposes. The health benefits of maca powder usually are not exclusively associated with the nutritionary requirements in the human body, having said that. Instead, this particular product may be used to heal many different distinct health conditions.