Intercultural Understanding (ICU) is a general capability that the Australian Curriculum expects all young people to develop through their primary and secondary schooling. As the 2014 school year draws to a close, the four ICU School Networks will have the opportunity to reflect on and share their work in building intercultural understanding through a final ICU Showcase Day held at Deakin Prime.
Centre for Applied Linguistics Definitions of IC Competence •Intercultural competence is the ability to communicate effectively in cross-cultural situations and to relate appropriately in a variety of cultural contexts. Bennett and Bennett 2004: 149. 
(p.16) Drawing on this definition, Intercultural understanding focuses on sharing, creating and contesting different cultural perceptions and practices, and supports the development of a critical awareness of the processes of socialisation and representation that shape and maintain cultural differences. Intercultural understanding stimulates students’ interest in the lives of others. It cultivates values and dispositions such as curiosity, care, empathy, reciprocity, respect and responsibility, open-mindedness and critical awareness, and supports new and positive intercultural behaviours.
ICU is an essential part of living with others in the 21st century (ACARA, 2012) and for building a culturally diverse but cohesive society in Australia (MCEETYA, 2008, p.4). This large-scale Australian Research Council project is working with schools and schooling systems to help them build intercultural understanding. As the 2014 school year draws to a close, the four ICU School Networks will have the opportunity to reflect on and share their work in building intercultural understanding through a final ICU Showcase Day held at Deakin Prime.
General capabilities encompass the knowledge, skills, behaviours and dispositions that, together with curriculum content and cross-curriculum priorities, aim to assist students to live and work successfully in the twenty-first century. For intercultural understanding to be fully developed, students need to explore a range of underlying concepts: 1  the complex, dynamic and variable nature of culture. 2  the relationship between culture and indvidual identity. 3  the influence of identity on individual beliefs, values, perspective and behaviours.
Intercultural competence is the overall capability of an individual to manage key challenging features of intercultural communication: namely, cultural differences and unfamiliarity, inter-group dynamics, and the tensions and conflicts that can accompany this process. To answer the question how to gain intercultural competence, we have to differentiate between the intercultural competence of migrants and refugees and the intercultural competence of any practitioner working with that target group.
The Intercultural understanding capability adopts the Shape of the Australian Curriculum: Languages (ACARA 2011) definition of culture as involving: … a complex system of concepts, values, norms, beliefs and practices that are shared, created and contested by people who make up a cultural group and are passed on from. Intercultural understanding stimulates students’ interest in the lives of others. It cultivates values and dispositions such as curiosity, care, empathy, reciprocity, respect and responsibility, open-mindedness and critical awareness, and supports new and positive intercultural behaviours.
Students develop intercultural understanding as they learn to value their own cultures, languages and beliefs, and those of others. They come to understand how personal, group and national identities are shaped, and the variable and changing nature of culture. For intercultural understanding to be fully developed, students need to explore a range of underlying concepts: 1  the complex, dynamic and variable nature of culture. 2  the relationship between culture and indvidual identity. 3  the influence of identity on individual beliefs, values, perspective and behaviours.
Introduction. In the Australian Curriculum, students develop intercultural understanding as they learn to value their own cultures, languages and beliefs, and those of others. They come to understand how personal, group and national identities are shaped, and the variable and changing nature of culture. Intercultural understanding addresses this role, developing students who are active and informed citizens with an appreciation of Australia’s social, cultural, linguistic and religious diversity, and the ability to relate to and communicate across cultures at local, regional and global levels.