Money orders will not be issued in that amount, however a bank will issue you a cashiers check for that amount. A good place to start would be your personal bank. Source(s): banks and credit unions.
1 Fees: For U.S. Postal Service money orders, you pay $1.20 for a money order up to $500 and $1.60 for a money order between $500 and $1,000 in the U.S. If you’re sending money internationally, the fee is $4.50 for a money order up to $700. 2  For bank money orders, check the fees with your branch.
– The general fee for money orders can range from 50 cents to $10 and up, depending on where you get one. – Western Union fees: could range anywhere from 50 cents to $1.50 and more. – Most banks charge $5, $10, or 10 percent of the total amount on the money order. Money orders are a solid form of payment that is accepted just about anywhere. Don’t get them confused with a cashier’s check, which is only obtainable from your bank.
Best Answer: You don't need a I.D. To get a money order in the bank. unless you're under age. Don't you have a bank account. And if so. There shouldn't be any problem. And get a new driver's license.
1 You can also deposit a money order into your bank account. 2  Go to the post office. 3  The post office will cash money orders that were purchased from a post office. 4  Larger post offices have more funds to cash larger money orders, so if your money order is for a huge amount, choose the bigger branch in your area.
Ad. 2. Go to your bank. If you have a bank account, the easiest way to obtain a money order is to go to the teller and ask for one. 1  Some banks may charge a small fee, but many offer money orders for free. 2  Some banks offer cashier's checks, which are similar to money orders.
Report Abuse. You won't be able to get a money order for $5500. You'll get a bank check instead. The point of an ID is to match your picture and name. It doesn't matter when it expired.
You can purchase the money order in the bank, and the teller will stamp the amount on the money order for you. The payee is left blank and the purchaser can fill in the name of whom they want it go to. Most banks have a limit on the amount they will allow you to purchase on a money order.