No one created our universe,and no one directs our fate. This leads me to a profound realization; There is probably no heaven, and no afterlife either. We have this one life to appreciate the grand design of the universe, and for that I am extremely grateful.”. ― Stephen Hawking. ― Stephen Hawking. Like. “The role played by time at the beginning of the universe is, I believe, the final key to removing the need for a Grand Designer, and revealing how the universe created itself. … Time itself must come to a stop.
Stephen Hawking: It is clear that we are just an advanced breed of primates on a minor planet orbiting around a very average star, in the outer suburb of one among a hundred billion galaxies. BUT, ever since the dawn of civilization people have craved for an understanding of the underlying order of the world. 
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford, England, to Frank (1905–1986) and Isobel Hawking (nee Née; walker–1915). 2013 his mother Was. Scottish despite their' families financial, constraints both parents attended The university Of, oxford Where frank studied medicine And, Isobel, Philosophy politics And. economics Hawking suffers from a rare early-onset, slow-progressing form of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as motor neurone disease or Lou Gehrig 's disease, that has gradually paralysed him over the decades. He now communicates using a single cheek muscle attached to a speech-generating device.
Stephen Hawking quotes (showing 1-30 of 289). “One, remember to look up at the stars and not down at your feet. Two, never give up work. Work gives you meaning and purpose and life is empty without it. ― Stephen Hawking. Like. “The role played by time at the beginning of the universe is, I believe, the final key to removing the need for a Grand Designer, and revealing how the universe created itself. … Time itself must come to a stop.
I admit it. I love Stephen Hawking. I love that computerized voice of his. I'm inspired by his story and I just can't get enough of hearing him break down the universe in a way even a simpleton like me can understand. But that was nothing compared to inflation in the early universe. The universe expanded by a factor of million trillion trillion in a tiny fraction of a second. Unlike inflation in prices, inflation in the early universe was a very good thing. It produced a very large, and uniform universe, just as we observe.
Share this quote. Stephen Hawking: It is clear that we are just an advanced breed of primates on a minor planet orbiting around a very average star, in the outer suburb of one among a hundred billion galaxies. BUT, ever since the dawn of civilization people have craved for an understanding of the underlying order of the world.
Stephen Hawking, the renowned British astrophysicist, speaks on Why We Should Go Into Space for NASA's 50th Anniversary lecture series at George Washington University, April 21, 2008. 
1 My goal is simple. 2  It is a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is and why it exists at all. 3  As quoted in Stephen Hawking's Universe (1985) by John Boslough, Ch. 7: The Final Question, p. 77. 1 The Dreams that Stuff is Made of, the title of a collection by Hawking of the most earth shaking papers in Quantum mechanics, 2011. [ 2 In response to a question on how we should live] We should seek the greatest value of our action.
Stephen Hawking says he's an atheist, arguing that science offers a more convincing explanation for the origins of the universe and that the miracles of religion aren't compatible with scientific fact. Stephen Hawking: 'Heaven is a fairy story for people afraid of the ... 'I'm an atheist' because science is 'more convincing' - Raw Story. In the Least Surprising News You'll Hear Today, Stephen Hawking is ...
It is a complete understanding of the universe, why it is as it is and why it exists at all.”. ― Stephen Hawking. Like. “The role played by time at the beginning of the universe is, I believe, the final key to removing the need for a Grand Designer, and revealing how the universe created itself. … Time itself must come to a stop.