In 1965, Ronald Ryan escaped Pentridge prison with Peter John Walker. A prison warder was shot dead and Ryan was convicted of the murder. He was hanged on February 3, 1967. It was Australia's last hanging. In 1967 Ronald Ryan was the last man to go to the gallows in Australia, Xavier Duff’s new book Noose explores the case along with others.
1967: Ronald Ryan, the last hanged in Australia. At 8 a.m. in Melbourne this date in 1967, as a moment of silence was observed across Australia, Ronald Ryan was hanged in Pentridge Prison for killing a guard during a prison break. He would be the last man put to death Down Under. 14 thoughts on “1967: Ronald Ryan, the last hanged in Australia”. says: 5 February, 2010 at 7:46 pm. Ronald Ryan was convicted, sentenced to death and subsequently hanged, based solely on unsigned and untaped allegations of “hearsay” said to have been made by Ryan to police. There was no sicientific evidence whatsoever.
TOMORROW is the 40th anniversary of the last judicial hanging in Australia, the execution in Melbourne of Ronald Ryan for the shooting murder of prison officer George Hodson, 41, during an escape from Pentridge Prison in 1965. 
RONALD Ryan was the last man to be hanged in Australia but while life was difficult for him he did not turn to crime until a relatively mature age. In 1967 Ronald Ryan was the last man to go to the gallows in Australia, Xavier Duff’s new book Noose explores the case along with others.
Ryan, 42, was found guilty of Hodson’s murder. After a long and sustained public opposition to his impending hanging, Ryan was eventually hanged on February 3, 1967 inside Pentridge – the very prison he and Walker had escaped from two years earlier. He would be the last person to be executed in Australia. Walker, on the other hand, was convicted of manslaughter.
Ronald Ryan was the last man hanged in Australia. It was 8:00 on Friday February 3, 1967 inside 'D' Division at Pentridge Prison in Melbourne, Victoria. To this day, more than four decades later, the facts and serious doubts remain whether Ronald Ryan was guilty of murder beyond all reasonable doubt.
Ronald Joseph Ryan (21 February 1925 – 3 February 1967) was the last person to be legally executed in Australia. Ryan was found guilty of shooting and killing prison officer George Hodson during an escape from Pentridge Prison, Victoria, in 1965. Ronald Edmond Thompson was born at the Royal Women's Hospital in Melbourne 's inner suburb of Carlton, to John Ronald Ryan and Cecilia Thompson (nee Née). young
The man was Ronald Ryan and it was his death and the response to it that proved the turning point in Australia's attitude to the death penalty. Ryan was found guilty of shooting and killing prison officer George Hodson during an escape from Pentridge Prison, Victoria, in 1965. He was hanged on February 3 1967. 
RONALD RYAN Hanged Innocent in Australia Ronald Joseph Ryan, age 41,was the last man hanged in Australia. It was 8:00 AM on Friday February 3, 1967 at Pentridge Prison in Melbourne. Today, more than four decades later, serious doubts remain whether Ronald Ryan was guilty of murder beyond all reasonable doubt. Ronald Ryan –Hanged Innocent in AustraliaPage … 25 I believe I am in a better position than anyone else to discuss the Ronald Ryan case as most of those involved are now deceased. I seekto make a last plea for someone who did not deserve to die.Please allow me one last attempt to put the record straight.
Ronald Ryan –Hanged Innocent in AustraliaPage … 22 WHO WAS RONALD RYAN? Ronald Ryan was born to John and Cecilia (nee Young) Ryan on February 21, 1925 at the Royal Women’s Hospital in Carlton, Victoria.Ryan was of Irish-Catholic background and born into dire poverty. Ronald Ryan –Hanged Innocent in AustraliaPage … 25 I believe I am in a better position than anyone else to discuss the Ronald Ryan case as most of those involved are now deceased. I seekto make a last plea for someone who did not deserve to die.Please allow me one last attempt to put the record straight.