Rate of photosynthesis Intensity of light Rate of photosynthesis Carbon dioxide concentration. 2 Temperature and rate of photosynthesis Although the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis are not affected by changes in temperature, the light in dependent reactions of photosynthesis are dependent on temperature. They are reactions catalysed by enzymes.
Gradually the rate falls of and at a certain light intensity the rate of photosynthesis stay constant (from point B to C on the graph). Here a rise in light intensity has no affect on the rate of photosynthesis as the other factors such as temperature and carbon dioxide become limiting. The rate of photosynthesis increases linearly with increasing carbon dioxide concentration (from point A to B on the graph). Gradually the rate falls of and at a certain carbon dioxide concentration the rate of photosynthesis stays constant (from point B to C on the graph).
Best Answer: Carbon dioxide is needed in the dark reaction as a raw material used in the synthesis of glucose. As carbon dioxide concentration increases, the rate of photosynthesis increases. At high concentrations, the rate of photosynthesis begins to level out due to factors not related to carbon dioxide concentration. One reason might be that some of the enzymes of photosynthesis are working at their maximum rate.
Carbon Dioxide. Carbon dioxide is used to make sugar in the photosynthesis reaction. The concentration of carbon dioxide in the Earth’s atmosphere varies between 0.03% and 0.04%. An increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide gives an increase in the rate of photosynthesis. The rate of photosynthesis increases linearly with increasing carbon dioxide concentration (from point A to B on the graph). Gradually the rate falls of and at a certain carbon dioxide concentration the rate of photosynthesis stays constant (from point B to C on the graph).
For example, the amount of light will affect the rate of photosynthesis. If there is no light, there will be no photosynthesis. As light intensity increases, the rate of photosynthesis will increase as long as other factors are in adequate supply. As the rate increases, eventually another factor will come into short supply. The graph below shows the effect of low carbon dioxide concentration. 2 Temperature and rate of photosynthesis Although the light dependent reactions of photosynthesis are not affected by changes in temperature, the light in dependent reactions of photosynthesis are dependent on temperature. They are reactions catalysed by enzymes.
Carbon Dioxide: Plants As described in the Carbon Dioxide: Overview section of this module, plants use carbon dioxide (CO2) during photosynthesis--the process by which plants transform the sun's energy into a chemical form and create carbohydrate (C6H12O6) molecules. Plants use this chemical to grow. If the concentration of atmospheric CO2 available to plants increases, plants may be able to increase their rate of photosynthesis and thus grow more. This response of plants to elevated concentrations of CO2 is known as the carbon dioxide fertilization effect..
Factors affecting photosynthesis. Three factors can limit the speed of photosynthesis: light intensity, carbon dioxide concentration and temperature. Light intensity. Without enough light, a plant cannot photosynthesise very quickly, even if there is plenty of water and carbon dioxide. Increasing the light intensity will boost the speed of photosynthesis. Carbon dioxide concentration. Sometimes photosynthesis is limited by the concentration of carbon dioxide in the air. Even if there is plenty of light, a plant cannot photosynthesise if there is insufficient
Click graph to see notes! As carbon dioxide concentration increases, the rate of photosynthesis increases. At high concentrations, the rate of photosynthesis begins to level out due to factors not related to carbon dioxide concentration. One reason might be that some of the enzymes of photosynthesis are working at their maximum rate. 
Carbon dioxide is an essential reactant for photosynthesis to occur. If there is a higher concentration of carbon dioxide, then the rate of photosynthesis will increase, and v … ise versa. If the concentration of carbon dioxide decreases, then the rate at which a plant photosynthesizes will be slower. Resources: I'm an advanced bio student, and we conducted an experiment to test this.