Humidity is carefully controlled to prevent unnecessary loss of egg moisture. The relative humidity in the incubator between setting and three days prior to hatching should remain at 58-60% or 84-86 degree F., wet-bulb. When hatching, the humidity is increased to 65% relative humidity or more. An excellent method to determine correct humidity is to candle the eggs at various stages of incubation. The normal size of the air cell after 7, 14, and 18 days of incubation for a chicken egg is shown
For hatching chickens, desirable humidity during the first 18 days of incubation is around 50% to 55% Relative Humidity (equivalent to wet bulb thermometer readings of 82°F [28°C] to 88°F [31°C]). When raising chickens eggs, this rises to 65% - 70% Relative Humidity for the final 3 days prior to hatching (equivalent to wet bulb thermometer readings of 90°F [32°C] to 93°F [34°C]). The higher humidity levels at this time keep the egg membranes soft and easy for the hatching chickens to escape from
Consider that number to be a target – not an absolute. During the final three days of incubation, the eggs should ideally be located in a slightly cooler (98.5 degrees) and more humid (65 percent relative humidity or greater) environment to facilitate successful hatching. Fertile chicken eggs can be stored up to 10 days (before incubating) with little loss in hatchability – as long as you keep them out of the refrigerator. The ideal storage conditions are 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit and 70 to 75 percent relative humidity.
8. Adjust the humidity levels in the incubator. Humidity should be around 45 to 50 percent throughout incubation, except during the last three days when you will want to raise it to 65 percent. You may need higher or lower humidity levels depending on the type of eggs you wish to hatch. 6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days.
This is critical on homemade incubators. It is possible to suffocate the eggs and chicks in air-tight container. The relative humidity of the air within an incubator for the first 18 days should be able 60 percent. During the last 3 days (the hatching period) the relative humidity should be nearer 65-70 percent. Too much moisture in the incubator prevents normal evaporation and results in a decreased hatch, but excessive moisture is seldom a problem in small incubators.
Monitor the humidity in the incubator daily to ensure that you keep it at the right percentage for the chicken eggs to hatch. Increase the humidity during the last three days of incubation to 65 percent, 88 degrees Fahrenheit wet bulb or 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit dry bulb reading. 
Humidity and Ventilation. The relative humidity of the air within an incubator for the first 18 days should be able 60 percent. During the last 3 days (the hatching period) the relative humidity should be nearer 65-70 percent. Too much moisture in the incubator prevents normal evaporation and results in a decreased hatch, but excessive moisture is seldom a problem in small incubators.
Temperature: The eggs need to be kept at 99.5 degrees at all times; just one degree higher or lower for a few hours can terminate the embryo. Humidity: 40 to 50 percent humidity must be maintained for the first 18 days; 65 to 75 percent humidity is needed for the final days before hatching. It takes 21 days on average for an egg to hatch once incubation begins. Before placing the eggs inside, turn on the heat source and measure the temperature and humidity over a 24-hour period, making adjustments as necessary to create the optimal environment.