Hebrew Meaning: The name Aliza is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Aliza is: Joy. Joyful. American Meaning: The name Aliza is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Aliza is: Joy. Joyful. 
The name Eliza is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Eliza is: consecrated to God. English Meaning: The name Eliza is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Eliza is: My God is bountiful. God of plenty. A frequently used as an independent name. Famous bearer: Eliza Doolittle, the Cockney heroine of George Bernard Shaw's play 'Pygmalion', from which the musical 'My Fair Lady' was derived.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Aliza. Many people assume Aliza is an altered form of Eliza, but it’s not. Aliza is actually a Hebrew female name (עַלִיזָה) meaning “joyful” (whereas Eliza is a diminutive of Elizabeth). One notable Jewish Aliza was Aliza Begin, the beloved wife of former Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin. We should also point out that Aliza is pronounced “ah-LEE-zah” rather than “ah-LIE-zah” – but both are pretty enough. Although Aliza’s etymology is a little more “joyful”. Popularity of the Girl Name Aliza. You need Adobe Flash Player 6 (or above) to view the charts.
Aliza /al-iza/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Hebrew derivation, and the name Aliza means joy; great happiness; joy, joyful; God is my oath. Aliza is an alternate form of Aleeza (Hebrew). Aliza is also a form of Alisa (Hebrew): also a version of Alicia. Aliza is also used as a form of Alizah (Hebrew) and Eliza (Hebrew). See also Liza. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Aliza and affiliated names. Alyssa (#76 last year) , Eliza (#212) , Elisa (#498) , Alissa (#855) , Alisa (#936) , Liza, Liz, Alize and Elza are the popular related forms of Aliza (#818 last year) ranked in the Top 1000.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Eliza is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Eliza is: or Elizabeth, from Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Also a diminutive of Bethia (daughter or worshipper of God), and of Bethany, a New Testament village near Jerusalem. The name Eliza is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Eliza is: My God is bountiful. God of plenty. A frequently used as an independent name. Famous bearer: Eliza Doolittle, the Cockney heroine of George Bernard Shaw's play 'Pygmalion', from which the musical 'My Fair Lady' was derived.
Greek Meaning: The name Eliza is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Eliza is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Famous bearer: Old Testament Elizabeth was mother of John the Baptist and one of the earliest known bearers of this name; Queen Elizabeth II. The name Eliza is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Eliza is: My God is bountiful. God of plenty. A frequently used as an independent name. Famous bearer: Eliza Doolittle, the Cockney heroine of George Bernard Shaw's play 'Pygmalion', from which the musical 'My Fair Lady' was derived.