Nitrobenzene is produced commercially by the exothermic nitration of benzene with fuming nitric acid in the presence of a sulfuric acid catalyst. The crude nitrobenzene is passed through washer-separators to remove residual acid and is then distilled to remove benzene, water, dinitrobenzene and trinitrobenzene.
Nitrobenzene Products. Nitrobenzene (NB; oil of mirbane) is a pale yellow liquid with an odor resembling that of bitter almonds. It was first synthesized in 1834 by treating benzene with fuming nitric acid and has commercial importance as the major precursor to aniline.
NO. , very poisonous, flammable, pale yellow, liquid aromatic compound with an odor like that of bitter almonds. It is sometimes called oil of mirbane or nitrobenzol. Nitrobenzene melts at 5.85°C, boils at 210.9°C, is only slightly soluble in water, but is very soluble in ethanol, ether, and benzene.
Description. Nitrobenzene is a greenish-yellow crystalline solid or colorless to pale yellow, oily liquid with an almond oil odor. Nitrobenzene is soluble in about 500 parts water and freely soluble in alcohol, benzene, ether, acetone, and oils. It is also combustible with steam (Merck, 1989).
Nitrobenzene is manufactured commercially by the direct nitration of benzene usingwhat is known as 'mixed acid' or 'nitrating acid' (27-32% HNO 56-60% H2S04, 8- 17% H20). HistoricalIy, it was produced by a batch process. With a typical batch process, the reactor was charged with benzene at a temperature of 50-55 0e.
C 6 H 5 NO 2, very poisonous, flammable, pale yellow, liquid aromatic compound with an odor like that of bitter almonds. It is sometimes called oil of mirbane or nitrobenzol. Nitrobenzene melts at 5.85&degC;, boils at 210.9&degC;, is only slightly soluble in water, but is very soluble in ethanol, ether, and benzene.
Nitrobenzene is a greenish-yellow crystalline solid or colorless to pale yellow, oily liquid with an almond oil odor. Nitrobenzene is soluble in about 500 parts water and freely soluble in alcohol, benzene, ether, acetone, and oils. It is also combustible with steam (Merck, 1989).