Stolen Generations. The Stolen Generations are the Noongar and other Aboriginal children who, over one and a half centuries, were taken away from their families and placed in institutions and missions. Most often it was the lighter skinned children who were taken to be assimilated into white society. History of the Stolen Generations. The first recorded removal of a Noongar child in the Swan River Colony was in 1833. Lt. Governor Irwin wrote to his superiors in London after the execution of Noongar Elder, Midgegooroo. Irwin writes in relation to Midgegooroo’s eight-year-old son, Billy.
The stolen generation, a very dark period in Australia's history, resulted in a loss of the Aboriginal culture. During the 20th century, tens of thousands of Aboriginal childr … en were taken forcibly from their families. These were the 'Stolen Generations'. The Stolen Generation   In the history of Australia, this refers to mainly half-caste Aboringinal people who were removed from their parents by the government and mission … s, mainly between about 1900 and 1970.
We apologise especially for the removal of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander children from their families, their communities and their country. For the pain, suffering, and hurt of these Stolen Generations, their descendants and for their families left behind, we say sorry. To the mothers and the fathers, the brothers and the sisters, for the breaking up of families and communities, we say sorry. The 1997 publication of Bringing Them Home – Report of the National Inquiry into the Separation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Children from Their Families brought broader awareness of the Stolen Generations.
Confidence votes 79. The removal of Aboriginal children from their families between 1900 and 1972 by the Government and church missionaries, attempting to assimilate these children into White Australian society, is referred to as the Stolen Generations. The Stolen Generation   In the history of Australia, this refers to mainly half-caste Aboringinal people who were removed from their parents by the government and mission … s, mainly between about 1900 and 1970.
The term Stolen Generations describes the many Aboriginal – and some Torres Strait Islander – people who were forcibly removed from their families as children by past Australian Federal, State and Territory government agencies, and church missions, from the late 1800s to the 1970s. 
The Stolen Generations (also known as Stolen Children) were the children of Australian Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander descent who were removed from their families by the Australian Federal and State government agencies and church missions, under acts of their respective parliaments. The 1997 publication of Bringing Them Home – Report of the National Inquiry into the Separation of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Children from Their Families brought broader awareness of the Stolen Generations.
The Stolen Generations continue to impact on contemporary Aboriginal spiritualities as the removal of an entire generation of children from their families has had a destructive effect on the ability of these children to maintain their cultural identities. The stolen generation, a very dark period in Australia's history, resulted in a loss of the Aboriginal culture. During the 20th century, tens of thousands of Aboriginal childr … en were taken forcibly from their families. These were the 'Stolen Generations'.
The Stolen Generations. The 'Stolen Generations' are the generations of Aboriginal children taken away from their families by governments, churches and welfare bodies to be brought up in institutions or fostered out to white families. Removing children from their families was official government policy in Australia until 1969. Almost every Aboriginal family has been affected in some way by the policies of child removal. Taking children from their families was one of the most devastating practices since white settlement and has profound repercussions for all Aboriginal people today.
The removal of Aboriginal children from their families between 1900 and 1972 by the Government and church missionaries, attempting to assimilate these children into White Aust … ralian society, is referred to as the Stolen Generations. The stolen generation, a very dark period in Australia's history, resulted in a loss of the Aboriginal culture. During the 20th century, tens of thousands of Aboriginal childr … en were taken forcibly from their families. These were the 'Stolen Generations'.
The Stolen Generations continue to impact on contemporary Aboriginal spiritualities as the removal of an entire generation of children from their families has had a destructive effect on the ability of these children to maintain their cultural identities. The Stolen Generation   In the history of Australia, this refers to mainly half-caste Aboringinal people who were removed from their parents by the government and mission … s, mainly between about 1900 and 1970.