Rivers: Major rivers of North America. Rocky Mountains: The Rocky Mountains, about 3,000 miles in length, extend from the U.S State of New Mexico up through the western United States and on into the northernmost reaches of Canada's British Columbia.
The Ozarks, also referred to as the Ozark Mountains, Ozarks Mountain Country, and the Ozark Plateau, are a physiographic and geologic highland region of the central United States. It covers much of the southern half of Missouri and an extensive portion of northwestern and north central Arkansas. For example, the ecoregion called Ozark Mountain Forests includes the Ouachita Mountains, although the Arkansas River Valley and the Ouachitas, both south of the Boston Mountains, are not usually considered part of the Ozarks.
Ozark Plateau. The Ozarks and Ouachitas are two distinct mountain ranges separated from each other by the Arkansas River Valley. The Ozarks occupy most of southern Missouri and extend into northern Arkansas. They consist of three dissected plateaus covered with oak-dominated forest with glade and savannah inclusions.
The central Ozarks is lower than the southern and western rimlands, but elevations in the St. Francois Mountains generally exceed 1,600 feet and the highest elevation in Missouri (1,778 feet) is the summit of Taum Sauk Mountain in Iron County. The Ozarks has the general shape of a parallelogram. The region is part of the Interior Highlands Province, which includes the tightly folded and strongly faulted rocks of the Arkansas Valley and Ouachita Mountains.
Mountains. The state's two mountain ranges, the Ozark Mountains and the Ouachita Mountains, are the only significant highland region between the Appalachians and the Rockies. The Ozark Mountains, also called the Ozark Plateau, usurp the northwestern corner of the state and extend into southern Missouri. 
The Boston Mountains portion of the Ozarks extends north of the Arkansas River Valley 20 to 35 miles (32 to 56 km) and is approximately 200 miles (320 km) and are bordered by the Springfield and Salem Plateau to the north of the White River. For example, the ecoregion called Ozark Mountain Forests includes the Ouachita Mountains, although the Arkansas River Valley and the Ouachitas, both south of the Boston Mountains, are not usually considered part of the Ozarks.
Portions of the Ozark Plateau, the Springfield plateau of southwest Missouri and northern Arkansas, are underlain by Mississippian cherty limestones locally referred to as Boone chert consisting of limestone and chert layers. These are eroded and form steep hills, valleys and bluffs. For example, the ecoregion called Ozark Mountain Forests includes the Ouachita Mountains, although the Arkansas River Valley and the Ouachitas, both south of the Boston Mountains, are not usually considered part of the Ozarks.
1 the Missouri portion of the Ozark Plateau (areas 14a and 14b) which lies between the Mississippi Alluvial Plain and the Central lowland. The elevation in the extreme northwestern Missouri is about 1,200 ft (370 m). and in the extreme northeastern portion about 500 ft (150 m)., while the rim of the region to the southeast, along the border of the Ozark region, has an elevation of about 900 ft (270 m).
Ozark Plateau—Introduction. Download fact sheet on the rocks and minerals of the Ozark Plateau. The Ozark Plateau, as its name suggests, is part of the Ozarks of Missouri, Oklahoma, and Arkansas. Bounded by the Spring River on the west, this corner of southeastern Kansas covers about 55 square miles and includes the towns of Baxter Springs and Galena. 
Arkansas Geography. The topography of Arkansas varies rather dramatically from northwest to southeast. The Ozark Plateau stretches across parts of Illinois, Missouri and Oklahoma, and on into Arkansas. This area of low mountains, hills and deep valleys is heavily forested and etched by many small rivers and streams. South of the Ozarks, the Arkansas River and its namesake valley cut a dramatic path across the state. This valley gives way to the Ouachita Mountains, where Magazine Mountain, the state's highest point is located.