the degree of sensible heat or cold, expressed in terms of a specific scale. See Table of Temperature Equivalents in the Appendices. Body temperature is measured by a clinical thermometer and represents a balance between the heat produced by the body and the heat it loses. Though heat production and heat loss vary with circumstances, the body regulates them, keeping a remarkably constant temperature.
Answer by Plucas. Confidence votes 31.3K. The core of the sun is 15 million oK (Kelvin is the scientific scale) and the corona is 5800 oK. The corona is that temperature because sound waves produce intense heat and below the corona and photosphere are convection currents that bring heat to the surface. The surface of the Sun (the photosphere) is about 5500° Celsius (~5800°Kelvin).   The corona (outer atmosphere) has a much higher temperature, in the millions of … degrees, but it is so comparatively tenuous that the effective heat energy is very much less.
The core temperature is the internal temperature of the body and the surface temperature is the outside of the body temperature e.g., skin. Ambient refers to the temperature of the surrounding air, i.e not at parking lot level etc. Ambient means the temperature not being effected by mechanical means, like AC … or any heat source. example, if you serve a wine at ambient temperature, it is not a specific number it is what ever the room is at the time.
A team of scientists has measured the melting point of iron at high precision in a laboratory, and then drew from that result to calculate the temperature at the boundary of Earth's inner and outer core — now estimated at 6,000 C (about 10,800 F). That's as hot as the surface of the sun. The difference in temperature matters, because this explains how the Earth generates its magnetic field. The Earth has a solid inner core surrounded by a liquid outer core, which, in turn, has the solid, but flowing, mantle above it. There needs to be a 2,700-degree F (1,500 C) difference between the inner core and the mantle to spur thermal movements that — along with Earth's spin — create the magnetic field. The previously measured core temperature didn't demonstrate enough of a differential, puzzling researchers for two decades. Earth's internal engine is running about 1,000 degrees Celsius (about 1,800 degrees Fahrenheit) hotter than previously measured, providing a better explanation for how the planet generates a magnetic field, a new study has found.
Basically, a distinction is made between the body core temperature and the surface temperature. The surface temperature is measured on the surface of the skin and is derived from the ambient temperature and the temperature inside the body. Ideal measurement points are body cavities close to major blood vessels: the mouth, rectum, under-arm and eardrum. Oral temperature (measurement location: mouth).
The first line is the physical effect. Increased skin temperature decreases the difference between core and skin temperatures. Consequently, less heat is delivered to the skin surface by a given amount of skin blood flow. The bottom line is the reflex effect. The difference between core (Tc) and skin temperature (Tsk), interacts physically with total skin blood flow. The greater the (Tc-Tsk) difference, the greater the amount of heat transferred to the body surface.
is normally regulated so as to maintain a core temperature, that of the blood and the internal organs, of 37°C ± 0.5-1°C. Determined by the balance between metabolic heat production (varying with muscular activity) and heat loss (from the skin surface, in expired air and with the excreta). Body temperature is measured by a clinical thermometer and represents a balance between the heat produced by the body and the heat it loses. Though heat production and heat loss vary with circumstances, the body regulates them, keeping a remarkably constant temperature.