tropical rainforest. A type of biome that is found in warm regions near the equator. They receive a lot of rain, the warm temperatures do not vary much and the sunlight is fairly constant all year. 
Best Answer: Tropical rainforests are generally found at the equatorial level of the planet. There are two types of rainforests, tropical and temperate. Tropical rainforests are found closer to the equator where it is warm. Temperate rainforests are found near the cooler coastal areas further north or south of the equator. Tropical rainforests are found in Central and South America, Southeast Asia and islands near it, and West Africa. All tropical rainforests are found along the equator where the temperatures and the humidity is always high, with the days being equal to the nights. Se the sources below for additional information. Source(s): http://www.aresearchguide.com/biomes.htm...
Biomes usually found at cold latitudes far from the equator are sometimes also found on high mountains at low latitudes. Typically, a climb of 100 feet in elevation is equivalent to traveling 600 miles northward. As a rule, temperatures drop the farther you get from the equator. Therefore, many biomes are distributed along very distinct lines of latitude. For example, deserts are typically found around 30 degrees North or South latitude. However, climate can also be affected by elevation.
Rainforest Biome-Earth Observatory Experiments. There are two types of rainforests, tropical and temperate. Tropical rainforests are found closer to the equator where it is warm. Temperate rainforests are found near the cooler coastal areas further north or south of the equator. Site includes information on commonly found Biomes: Arctic Tundra Biome, Mid-Latitude Deciduous Forest Biome, Desert Biome, Tropical Rainforest Biome, Tropical Savannah Biome, and Taiga Biome. A map shows the locations of these biomes in different colors. Ecosystem Management.
Tropical rainforest Explanation... Tropical rainforests are warm, wet environments typically located near the equator. They can receive as much as 400 inches of rain per year … . The temperature remains warm (70°F to 85°F on average) all day long and year-round. Tropical rainforests produce 40% of the Earth's oxygen. 
They grow in a narrow zone near the equator. Tropical rainforests are found in Africa, Asia, Australia, and Central and South America. The largest rainforest in the world is the Amazon rainforest in South America. Tropical rainforests are home to a huge number of different plants and animals. All tropical rainforests are endangered. All tropical rainforests are found in a belt wrapping around the equator of the earth. This region is called the tropics. In the tropics the sun shines directly overhead about the same length of time every day, each day of the year. As a result, temperature is the same most days of the year
Other. There are two types of rainforests, tropical and temperate. Tropical rainforests are found closer to the equator and temperate rainforests are found farther north near coastal areas. The majority of common houseplants come from the rainforest. There are two types of rainforests, tropical and temperate. Tropical rainforests are found closer to the equator and temperate rainforests are found farther north near coastal areas
There are two types of rainforests, tropical and temperate. Tropical rainforests are found closer to the equator where it is warm. Temperate rainforests are found near the cooler coastal areas further north or south of the equator. The tropical rainforest is a hot, moist biome where it rains all year long. There are two types of rainforests, tropical and temperate. Tropical rainforests are found closer to the equator and temperate rainforests are found farther north near coastal areas.