A dish with widespread popularity, the origins of satay are unclear. The word satay itself is thought to have been derived from Indonesian: sate and Malay: sate saté or, satai both perhaps Of tamil. origin This satay is made from minced beef, chicken, fish, pork, or even turtle meat, which is then mixed with grated coconut, thick coconut milk, lemon juice, shallots, and pepper. Wound around bamboo, sugar cane or lemon grass sticks, it is then grilled on charcoal.
Peanut sauce, satay sauce, bumbu kacang, sambal kacang, or pecel is a sauce made from ground roasted or fried peanuts, widely used in the cuisines of Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, China and Africa. It is also used, to a lesser extent, in European (particularly Dutch) and Middle Eastern cuisine. In Singapore, peanut sauce is not only used as dipping sauce for satay. It is also eaten with rice vermicelli known as Satay bee hoon. In Vietnam, it is called tương đậu phộng and is used in cuốn diếp dish.
Amallia @DesireToEat says. Yeahh…finally you made this Satay recipe, Even I come from Indonesia and ate Chicken Satay many times, I have’nt post any Satay recipe, because took a long time to make this with a lot of ingredients. You’re right, grounding peanuts is a hard work. The Peanut Sauce I use in this recipe is not a 100% authentic Indonesian recipe, but with good reason. The traditional Indonesian peanut sauce is made simply with peanuts, kecap manis (sweet soy sauce), chillies, shallots and lime.
According to Michael, Satay or sate is originated from Indonesia, specially Javanese, where spread out across Indonesia. It was brought back to Europe by Dutch during colonialism era. Over there, it is commonly made of beef, chicken with spicy peanut sauce and some other ingredients (which I couldn't remember). Regardless of origin, all satay are praised by fans as delicious dishes. In Malaysia, Satay comes in many forms, vary from culture and location. For most Klang Valley folks, the Satay Kajang was insanely famous back in the day, and many still visit Kajang for this very special delicacy.
Satay or sate is originated from Indonesia, specially Javanese, where spread out across Indonesia. It was brought back to Europe by Dutch during colonialism era. It is commonly made of beef, chicken with spicy peanut sauce and some ingredient. Now, several countries in South East Asia, like Malaysia, Singapore absorb this as local cuisine with slightly different ingredient.
) that has long been popular in Southeast Asia, particulary in Indonesia, Malaysia, and Thailand. It is most frequently associated with Thai food, where satay made from cubes of beef, chicken, or lamb may be dipped in a traditional peanut relish or sauce. Some say that it was invented in Thailand, while Michael and some of the websites (including wikipedia) says it was originated from Indonesia. Regardless of origin, all satay are praised by fans as delicious dishes. In Malaysia, Satay comes in many forms, vary from culture and location. For most Klang Valley folks, the Satay Kajang was insanely famous back in the day, and many still visit Kajang for this very special delicacy.
A dish with widespread popularity, the origins of satay are unclear. The word satay itself is thought to have been derived from Indonesian: sate and Malay: sate saté or, satai both perhaps Of tamil. Origin satay was supposedly invented By javanese street vendors as an adaptation Of indian. kebabs This satay is made from minced beef, chicken, fish, pork, or even turtle meat, which is then mixed with grated coconut, thick coconut milk, lemon juice, shallots, and pepper. Wound around bamboo, sugar cane or lemon grass sticks, it is then grilled on charcoal.
The origin of satay Satay or sate is originated from Indonesia, specially Javanese, where spread out across Indonesia. It was brought back to Europe by Dutch during coloniali … sm era. It is commonly made of beef, chicken with spicy peanut sauce and some ingredient. Satay can be served with rice, from steamed rice, fried rice, ketupat* or lontong* (*rice which is cooked inside the coconut or banana leafs). In Philippines, we have pork satay and personally, I find it REALLY nasty.
In Indonesia, satay can be obtained from a travelling satay vendor, from a street-side tent-restaurant, in an upper-class restaurant, or during traditional celebration feasts. In Malaysia, satay is a popular dish—especially during celebrations—and can be found throughout the country. This satay is made from minced beef, chicken, fish, pork, or even turtle meat, which is then mixed with grated coconut, thick coconut milk, lemon juice, shallots, and pepper. Wound around bamboo, sugar cane or lemon grass sticks, it is then grilled on charcoal.