Only the stabilized allicin found in Allimax fights infection and boosts your immune system. Allicin is the major biologically active component of garlic and is the key ingredient responsible for the broad-spectrum of anti-bacterial activity in garlic. Allicin is not found in fresh garlic. Fresh garlic contains an enzyme called “allinase” and “alliin”, which are contained in different parts of garlic.
Qty: The allicin in ALLIMAX® likes the acid environment of your stomach, unlike other supplements that can be inactivated by acidic conditions. Garlic oil supplements are produced by distilling fresh garlic, the oil that is produced is then diluted and placed into a capsule. 
Allimax, the world's best garlic supplement is tough on colds. Allicin is the major biologically active component of garlic and is the key ingredient responsible for the broad-spectrum of anti-bacterial activity in garlic. Allicin is not found in fresh garlic. Fresh garlic contains an enzyme called “allinase” and “alliin”, which are contained in different parts of garlic.
Allicin does not occur in ordinary garlic, it is produced when garlic is finely chopped or crushed. The finer the chopping and the more intensive the crushing, the more allicin is generated and the stronger the medicinal effect. The technically minded might be interested in the chemistry of allicin. 
Allicin features the thiosulfinate functional group, R-S(O)-S-R. The compound is not present in garlic unless tissue damage occurs, and is formed by the action of the enzyme alliinase on alliin. Allicin is chiral but occurs naturally only as a racemate. The racemic form can also be generated by oxidation of diallyl disulfide : In the biosynthesis of allicin (thio-2-propene-1-sulfinic acid S-allyl ester), cysteine is first converted into alliin (+ S-allyl-L-cysteine sulfoxide). The enzyme alliinase, which contains pyridoxal phosphate (PLP), cleaves alliin, generating allysulfenic acid, pyruvate, and ammonium.
In 2009, Vaidya, Ingold and Pratt clarified the mechanism of the antioxidant activity of garlic, such as trapping damaging free radicals. When allicin decomposes, it forms 2-propenesulfenic acid, and this compound is what binds to the free-radicals. In the biosynthesis of allicin (thio-2-propene-1-sulfinic acid S-allyl ester), cysteine is first converted into alliin (+ S-allyl-L-cysteine sulfoxide). The enzyme alliinase, which contains pyridoxal phosphate (PLP), cleaves alliin, generating allysulfenic acid, pyruvate, and ammonium.
Allicin is the major biologically active component of garlic. First reported by Cavallito and Bailey in 1944, allicin is the key ingredient responsible for the broad-spectrum of anti-bacterial activity in garlic. Research also showed that allicin is responsible for lipid-lowering, anti-blood coagulation, anti-hypertension, anti-cancer, antioxidant and anti-microbial effects. Medicinal Activity in Garlic is best measured by it’s Allicin content Nonetheless, allicin is not found in fresh garlic. More importantly, as a large amount of allicin generated could also be harmful for the plant tissues and enzymes, this very limited short-lived production that is confined to the area where the microbial attack takes place, minimizes self-damage to the plant.
Research suggests that adding a high-q uality Allicin is designed to help maintain a healthy natural defense system to your diet may p rovide individual health benefits. Allicin, the primary active agent generated by garlic is being used for general well being and is supported through extensive researc h. British scientists have developed a proprietary process through which the naturally occurring Allicin in garlic is extracted, stabilized and concentrated. 
Allicin International Limited (AIL) is a manufacturer and supplier to the health food industry, dedicated to identifying useful products made from natural organic sources especially garlic. Our aim is to provide natural products for improving the quality of life for people, plants and animals. 