The automotive industry in Germany has an annual output of about 6 million, which makes it the definite leader of car manufacturing in Europe and in the top five in whole world. The history of German car brands is rich, producing a number of iconic German cars, each with their own specifications. In fact, Germany is considered as the birthplace of the automobiles in the 1870s, when Karl Benz and Nikolaus Otto separately invented a four-stroke internal combustion engine.
—. All of the aforementioned cars speak volumes over Germany’s influence in the racing world. From the BMW to the Audi, Germany will continue to remain one of the premier racing and driving destinations in the world. ;-). 1  Email a Friend. 2  Page as PDF. 3  Print Page. 4  Bookmark Page
Europe's biggest car producers. It is, of course, a very familiar story. German manufacturing is one of the great success stories of the post-war age. Little wonder, then, that 21st-Century Germany probably commands more raw economic and political clout than any time in its peacetime history. If you want to know why Angela Merkel calls the shots in Europe, Germany's car factories are a pretty good place to start. By contrast, Britain's car industry is a shadow of its former self. We do still make almost one and a half million cars a year, which is good news for thousands of British engineers.
“The car of the people”, as the name Volkswagen means, is a German car manufacturer known for producing very quality specific German cars that are adored all around the world. Founded in 1937 by Ferdinand Porsche, the founder of Porsche invented the iconic Volkswagen beetle for the German government. The history of German car brands is rich, producing a number of iconic German cars, each with their own specifications. In fact, Germany is considered as the birthplace of the automobiles in the 1870s, when Karl Benz and Nikolaus Otto separately invented a four-stroke internal combustion engine.
There are eight big car manufacturers in Germany. The four biggest are Audi, BMW, Mercedes-Benz, and Porsche, and they are also the most popular cars in America. So, these are the ones I will tell you about. Mercedes-Benz is one of the most luxurious German cars. Gottlieb Daimler made a car business calledDaimler-Motoren-Gesellschat, and Carl Benz had a car business called Benz. They competed in races, and during world war 2 they merged creating Mercedes-Benz.
Mercedes Benz. One of the largest car manufacturer worldwide is also located in Sindelfingen, Germany, named Mercedes Benz, also known as Daimler. Daimler is well-known as producing cars with the longest life span. All of the aforementioned cars speak volumes over Germany’s influence in the racing world. From the BMW to the Audi, Germany will continue to remain one of the premier racing and driving destinations in the world. ;-). 1  Email a Friend. 2  Page as PDF. 3  Print Page.
Volkswagen (VW). Volkswagen, located in Wolfsburg, is another large car manufacturer and employer in Germany, producing cars all around the world. The world famous Kaefer käfer became a national symbol for the industrialization in the years After World WAR. ii All of the aforementioned cars speak volumes over Germany’s influence in the racing world. From the BMW to the Audi, Germany will continue to remain one of the premier racing and driving destinations in the world. ;-). 1  Email a Friend. 2  Page as PDF. 3  Print Page.
Volkswagen assembly line as of 1973. The automotive industry in Germany is one of the largest employers in the country, with a labour force of over 747,000 (2009) working in the industry. Automobile manufacturers in East Germany after the war included Eisenacher Motorenwerk (EMW), which also made the Wartburg (car) , and VEB Sachsenring Automobilwerke Zwickau, which made the IFA F8 (derived from the DKW F8) and the Trabant.
Mercedes-Banz was founded in 1926 by Karl Benz and Gottleb Daimler. The company is a division of the manufacturer Daimler AG. The headquarters are located in Stuttgart, Baden-Wurttemberg, Germany. The company’s origin can be lead back to Karl’s Benz’s, one of the founders, invention of the first petrol-powered car. List of the Best German Cars. Germany is widely known for its precision, innovation, powerful national economy, and speed. Germany is home to the world class famous Autobahn highway, where there is no federal mandated speed limit for certain areas. The same can be said for German cars.
By 1901, Germany was producing about 900 cars a year. In 1926, Daimler-Benz was formed from the predecessor companies of Karl Benz and Gottlieb Daimler and produced cars under the marque of Mercedes-Benz. In 1916 BMW was founded, but didn't start auto production until 1928. Automobile manufacturers in East Germany after the war included Eisenacher Motorenwerk (EMW), which also made the Wartburg (car) , and VEB Sachsenring Automobilwerke Zwickau, which made the IFA F8 (derived from the DKW F8) and the Trabant.