'He has anger issues. He is definitely not someone who I think of fondly now.'. Her claims come hot on the heels of previous reports that Klum, 38, demanded a divorce because she was worried about the effect Seal’s 'inability to control his temper' was having on their children. It has also been alleged that the Project Runway star had grown tired of his love of 'hard partying.'.
Heidi Klum is divorcing Seal largely because she has had it with his volcanic temper ... TMZ has learned. Sources directly connected with the couple tell us ... Heidi's decision to divorce Seal has nothing to do with a third person. There is NO issue of infidelity. But Seal's inability to control his anger has become too much for Heidi to take, in no small part because it's affecting their children. TMZ broke the story that Heidi will divorce Seal, and we've learned this was not a snap decision.
Seal's ex-girlfriend Tajana Patitz has warned fellow German Heidi Klum not to get back with him due to his 'anger issues'. According to In Touch magazine she described the 48-year-old English crooner as a selfish and immature man who cannot control his volcanic personality. Her claims come hot on the heels of previous reports that Klum, 38, demanded a divorce because she was worried about the effect Seal’s 'inability to control his temper' was having on their children. It has also been alleged that the Project Runway star had grown tired of his love of 'hard partying.'.
By Deena Bustillo on. Heidi Klum separated from Seal in January, then filed for divorce in April. When all this was going down, the supermodel was said to have wanted out of the marriage because of her husband's bad temper. But, now, the singer has presented a much different picture about the terms of the split
But TMZ suggests it was the musician's volcanic temper that really drove her away. Do dish! Seal's inability to control his anger has become too much for Heidi to take, in no small part because it's affecting their children, the website squealed on Monday. Heidi's career success is also said to have driven a wedge between the pair.
Simply hit any or all of the action items below to enter. in Polls & Giveaways on LockerDome. K’Naan Gets Legal on Mitt Romney. *The ex-girlfriend of Seal has come out to affirm the claims of Heidi Klum’s friends that he has anger and temper issues, according to the Daily Mail. The German former model Tatjana Patitz said she split from the singer because of his anger issues; the same reasons Heidi Klum’s friends say the German model is now divorcing the singer for. “He is not a nice person,” said Patitz.
Everyone has some sort of temper, it always annoys me when people just say 'You have a temper' in general. Because everyone has one. A temper does not have much to do with being patient. They only tie together when your lack of patience causes you to get upset or overly angry, because that's what a temper is. To figure out if you have a bad temper, people usualy use the ratio of patience to outbursts, but that's about all they have to link the two. In short, everyone has a temper, some have good ones and some have bad.
But Seal's former girlfriend Tatjana Patitz has broken her silence to reveal she split from the singer because of his temper tantrums. And she has warned his estranged German supermodel wife Heidi Klum not to consider a reconciliation with the Kiss From A Rose singer for the sake of their children. Her claims come hot on the heels of previous reports that Klum, 38, demanded a divorce because she was worried about the effect Seal’s 'inability to control his temper' was having on their children. It has also been alleged that the Project Runway star had grown tired of his love of 'hard partying.'.
But Seal’s former girlfriend Tatjana Patitz has broken her silence to reveal she split from the singer because of his temper tantrums. And she has warned his estranged German supermodel wife Heidi Klum not to consider a reconciliation with the Kiss From A Rose singer for the sake of their children. He has anger issues. He is definitely not someone who I think of fondly now.” Her claims come hot on the heels of previous reports that Klum, 38, demanded a divorce because she was worried about the effect Seal’s “inability to control his temper” was having on