53 Followers. A. A nuclear heart scan is a test that provides important information about the health of your heart. For this test, a safe, radioactive substance called a tracer is injected into your bloodstream through a vein. 
A heart CT scan may also be called a coronary CT angiogram, if it is meant to view the arteries that bring blood to your heart. It may be called a coronary calcium scan if it meant to determine whether there is a build-up of calcium in your heart. A computed tomography scan—commonly called a CT scan—is a test that uses X-rays to view your heart and blood vessels. These scans use safe amounts of radiation to create detailed images of the body, which can help your doctor to detect any problems.
1 This type of CT scan is called a coronary calcium scan. 2  Calcium in the coronary arteries may be an early sign of CHD. 3  Problems with the aorta. 4  The aorta is the main artery that carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the body. 5  Cardiac CT can detect two serious problems in the aorta: 6  Aneurysm (AN-u-rism). During a cardiac CT scan, an x-ray machine will move around your body in a circle. The machine will take a picture of each part of your heart. A computer will put the pictures together to make a three-dimensional (3D) picture of the whole heart.
A nuclear heart scan is a test that provides important information about the health of your heart. For this test, a safe, radioactive substance called a tracer is injected into your bloodstream through a vein. The tracer travels to your heart and releases energy. Special cameras outside of your body detect the energy and use it to create pictures of your heart. Nuclear heart scans are used for three main purposes: 1 When a nuclear heart scan is done for this purpose, it's called myocardial perfusion scanning. 2  To look for damaged heart muscle. 3  Damage might be the result of a previous heart attack, injury, infection, or medicine.
Your doctor uses the calcium-score screening heart scan to evaluate risk for future coronary artery disease. If calcium is present, the computer will create a calcium score that estimates the extent of coronary artery disease based on the number and density of calcified coronary plaques in the coronary arteries. Atherosclerosis -- sometimes called hardening of the arteries -- can slowly narrow and harden the arteries throughout the body. When atherosclerosis affects the arteries of the heart, it’s called
Computerised tomography (CT) has been around since the 1970s. There are two ways in which a CT scan can be used for the heart – one is a CT coronary angiogram and the other is a CT calcium score. A CT scan produces multiple images of the heart from different angles, which the doctor can then see on a computer screen. The images are picked up using detectors. 
In this article. A heart computerized tomography (CT) scan, also called calcium-score screening heart scan, is a test used to detect calcium deposits found in atherosclerotic plaque in the coronary arteries of heart disease patients. Because there are certain forms of coronary disease, such as soft plaque atherosclerosis, that escape detection during this CT scan, it is important to remember that this test is not absolute in predicting your risk for a life-threatening event, such as a heart attack.
Cardiac computed tomography (to-MOG-rah-fee), or cardiac CT, is a painless test that uses an x-ray machine to take clear, detailed pictures of the heart. Doctors use this test to look for heart problems. During a cardiac CT scan, an x-ray machine will move around your body in a circle. The machine will take a picture of each part of your heart. A computer will put the pictures together to make a three-dimensional (3D) picture of the whole heart.