After falling pregnant on the depo-provera jag the doctor suggested I get the implant. Nothing was mentioned about any side effects but boy have I had them, weight gain, almost constant bleeding (2 days bleeding, nothing for a day then back to bleeding), swollen breasts, sore arm and the mysterious pregnancy symptoms. I had the implant in for 15 months all had been well. always had regular periods even on this. I know its supose to be better than sterlization The reason is why Im asking is Me a OH got a bit fruity as you do now about 6 weeks on I feel pregnant.
Originally Posted by Anna P Just a bit of advise really. I had the implant in for 15 months all had been well. always had regular periods even on this. I know its supose to be better than sterlization The reason is why Im asking is Me a OH got a bit fruity as you do now about 6 weeks on I feel pregnant. Bladder on overdrive, bloated tummy knackered all the time
From what I have read if you are pregnant and have an implanon implanted the urine tests will always show up negative. You need to get blood tests or even an ultrasound. I am also on the implanon. Had many issues with bleeding for 6 weeks straight then it goes for 3 months then comes back. Just like the pill. Not getting a period is also a side effect of implanon. I had it in for 6 weeks and nearly had a full pyschotic episode... at one point I considered going to hospital for my own safety.
How it works. IMPLANON prevents pregnancy in several ways. The most important way is by stopping the release of an egg from your ovary. IMPLANON also changes the mucus in your cervix and this change may keep sperm from reaching the egg. IMPLANON also changes the lining of your uterus. When the IMPLANON implant is placed correctly, your chance of getting pregnant is very low (less than one pregnancy per 100 women who use IMPLANON for one year). It is not known if IMPLANON is as effective in very overweight women because clinical studies did not include many overweight women. The most effective methods are at the top of the chart. The box on the bottom of the chart shows the chance of getting pregnant for women who do not use birth control and are trying to get pregnant. IMPLANON ® (etonogestrel implant) is a prescription medication for the prevention of pregnancy in women.
Yes, you can fall pregnant after having the implant removed and no period, because once the Implant is removed...it looses it's effectiveness immediately, so therefore your fe … rtility returns straight away. If you are concerned, wait roughly 4 weeks from removal, then test. 38 people found this useful. If you become pregnant on implanon you might as well tell an alien! I became pregnant and no one believed me. I could feel the symptoms and my stomach growing.
Im pregnant and have had implanon in since Oct.08. I had implanon inserted in Oct of 08 and just took a preganacy test and it is positive. My doctor told me that if you get pregnant while implanon is in it will be a tubel preganancy. My doctor told me for the first two weeks to use protection, after that we don't have to. I did bleed in Nov. Then in June 09 I bleed and that's when I got pregnant before I had that period. Implant Preganancy after 2 years. Okay so it seems that afew people on here have now had the same problem as me....i have had the implanon for 2 years and 5 months now but after 2 years and one month i fell pregnant. And again after 2 years and 5 months.
No contraception is 100% and yes you can get pregnant on Implanon...i've had cared for pregnant women who got pregnant on this. Very rare to get pregnant on it though. I dont think there are many side effects other than the risk of ectopic pregnancy. #13 pikapanda. Posted. woah woah woah, first off, the chances of getting pregnant on the implanon is 1 in 1000, not 1 in 7000 -_- and it is possible to get pregnant of implanon even if put in correctly. put in correctly there is a 99.8 % you wont get pregnant and a .2 % chance you can still get pregnant.
If you are 100% sure your pregnant the easiest thing is to have it removed just in case and have an ultrasound done that's the 100% sure way to know! If you become pregnant on implanon you might as well tell an alien! I became pregnant and no one believed me. I could feel the symptoms and my stomach growing.
2. had it put in 2-3 days afta period. 3. had sex 2 days b4 havin it put in. 4. had sex 2 days after havin it put in. 5. dont want to waste my money on a pregnancy test as with the hormones in the implanon it wouldn't act the way it should and would be inconclusie. I had the implant in for 15 months all had been well. always had regular periods even on this. I know its supose to be better than sterlization The reason is why Im asking is Me a OH got a bit fruity as you do now about 6 weeks on I feel pregnant.