With a PET scan you have an injection of a very small amount of a radioactive drug (tracer) first. The amount of radiation is very small and does not make you feel unwell. It only stays in the body for a few hours. Depending on which drug you have, the radioactive drug will travel to particular parts of your body. For some PET scans you should not eat and should drink only water for 4 to 6 hours beforehand. You may be told not to do any strenuous exercise for 24 hours before. For other scans there is no preparation.
Sep 07, 2012 - 10:13 pm. 2 days. With my first PET/CT prior to treatment I had it on a Wednesday and on Friday when I went for the making of my mask the rad onc read the results. Let's hope it's as fast this next time I go for my first one post treatment. Sep 07, 2012 - 9:38 am. doc. to me it's about how fast your doctor wants them. if the doctor stays on top of it like he would if it was their mother or father then we would and should have them the next day. the norm is 5-10 days. the longer duration is because it includes the weekend.
My husband's dr only waited 2 months after radiation and the results were positive for remission and 4 months later another PET also was positive. I am concerned about the fluid in his lung. He will be having another PET in March. Good luck to you. 
A CT scan (or CAT scan) takes a series of X-rays of the body from different angles. A computer puts the X-rays together to form a picture. CT scans can show up where a tumour is in the body and how big it is. 
The PET scan is interpreted by a trained nuclear medicine physician or radiologist and results are usually sent to the referring physician within 24-48 hours. You should contact your doctor to discuss the results. The scan takes approximately 15-35 minutes, depending upon the type of scan you are having and the type of scanner being used. It is important that you lie still during this process. If you need pain medication please bring it with you. You should plan on being at the imaging facility for approximately 2 to 3 hours.
5. This will depend on the type of scan being performed but you can expect to be in the PET imaging department for between two to three hours. The time on the PET scanner is typically 30 minutes but time is also needed for preparation.
Sep 07, 2012 - 12:08 pm. PET Scan. The U of M where your going should have the scan to the doctor by your appointment time. The scan is in the morning and appointment in the afternoon, Mine was set up there the same way at the U of M and they try to do all they can in a one day visit. Sep 07, 2012 - 9:38 am. doc. to me it's about how fast your doctor wants them. if the doctor stays on top of it like he would if it was their mother or father then we would and should have them the next day. the norm is 5-10 days. the longer duration is because it includes the weekend.
I have been getting pet scans every 2 months since the mets to spine (no ct) and an occasional mri of the brain/spine for symptoms. All. scans have been clear up until about 6 months ago, now every scan reflects growth in my parathyroid and increased suvs (last one 8+). 
The scan takes approximately 15-35 minutes, depending upon the type of scan you are having and the type of scanner being used. It is important that you lie still during this process. If you need pain medication please bring it with you. You should plan on being at the imaging facility for approximately 2 to 3 hours. A non-invasive test, PET scans accurately image the cellular activity of the human body. PET scanning provides a more complete picture, making it easier for your doctor to diagnose problems, determine the extent of disease, prescribe treatment and track progress.