Confidence votes 59. resistance is directly proportional to wire length and inversely proportional to wire cross-sectional area. In other words, If the wire length is doubled, the resistance is doubled too. If the wire diameter is doubled, the resistance will reduce to 1/4 of the original resistance. 
resistance is directly proportional to wire length and inversely proportional to wire cross-sectional area. In other words, If the wire length is doubled, the resistance is do … ubled too. If the wire diameter is doubled, the resistance will reduce to 1/4 of the original resistance. Resistivity is a property of a substance, and doesn't depend on the dimensions of a sample. If the length of a conductor is doubled, then its resistance doubles but its re … sistivity doesn't change.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Hzia2002. Confidence votes 381. Assuming the wire follows Ohm's Law, the resistance of a wire is directly proportional to its length therefore doubling the length will double the resistance of the wire. However when the length of the wire is doubled, its cross-sectional area is halved. Resistivity is a property of a substance, and doesn't depend on the dimensions of a sample. If the length of a conductor is doubled, then its resistance doubles but its re … sistivity doesn't change.
16. A copper wire of length L and cross-sectional area A has resistance R. A second copper wire at the same temperature has a length of 2 L and a cross-sectional area of 12 A. What is the resistance of the second copper wire?(1) R (2) 2 R (3) 1 R 2(4) 4 R 17. To reduce the resistance of a metal conductor one should(1) cool the conductor to a low temperature(2) heat the conductor to a high temperature(3) coat the conductor with an insulator(4) wire the conductor in series with another resistor18.
The cross section or the cross sectional area is the area of such a cut. It need not necessarily have to be a circle. Commercially available wire (cable) size as cross sectional area: 0.75 mm2, 1.5 mm2, 2.5 mm2, 4 mm2, 6 mm2, 10 mm2, 16 mm2. There are four factors that affect the resistance of a conductor: 1) the cross sectional area of a conductor A, calculated from the diameter d. 2) the length of the conductor 3) the temperature in the conductor 4) the material constituting the conductor
The resistance of a metallic wire conductor is inversely proportional to its1) tensile strength2) cross-sectional area3) length4) temperature7. The table below lists various characteristics of two metallic wires, A and B.If wire A has resistance R, then wire B has resistance1) R2) 2R3) R24) 4R8. A 0.500-meter length of wire with a cross-sectional area of 3.14 × 10 –6 meters squared is found to have a resistance of 2.53 × 10 –3 ohms. According to the resistivity chart, the wire could be made of1) aluminum2) copper3) nichrome4) silver9. This recommendation is made because the resistance of a wire varies1) directly with length and inversely with cross-sectional area2) inversely with length and directly with cross-sectional area3) directly with both length and cross-sectional area4) inversely with both length and cross-sectional area2.
As resistance of a conductor is inversely proportional to its cross sectional area,when the area is doubled the resistance is halved. You have not asked a right question.The question should have been what happens to the resistance of a conductor when its cross sectional area is doubled. As resistance of a conductor is inversely proportional to its cross sectional area,when the area is doubled the resistance is halved. pradeep.jagaty · 7 years ago.
Length has nothing to do with cross sectional area. But if your question was: what happens to the resistance of a conductor when it's cross sectional area is doubled? R_1 = ρ L/A_1 A_2 = 2 * A_1. R_2 = ρ L/A_2 = ρ L/[2*A_1] = 1/2 * ρ L/A_1 = 1/2 * R_1, If Area is doubled, resistance is halved. You have not asked a right question.The question should have been what happens to the resistance of a conductor when its cross sectional area is doubled. As resistance of a conductor is inversely proportional to its cross sectional area,when the area is doubled the resistance is halved. pradeep.jagaty · 7 years ago.
If the cross-sectional area of a fixed length of wire were decreased, the resistance of the wire would(1) decrease (3) remain the same(2) increase24. The resistance of a metallic wire conductor is inversely proportional to its(1) tensile strength (3) length(2) cross-sectional area (4) temperature25. To reduce the resistance of a metal conductor one should(1) cool the conductor to a low temperature(2) heat the conductor to a high temperature(3) coat the conductor with an insulator(4) wire the conductor in series with another resistor18.