Pyrene is a carcinogenic agent and is absorbed by the skin. It is a skin irritant, a suspected mutagen, and an equivocal tumor-causing agent. Workers exposed to 3 to 5 mg/m3 of pyrene exhibited some teratogenic effects. Pyrene is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH). Reactivity Profile-Description of the chemical's potential reactivity with other chemicals, air, and water. Also includes any other intrinsic reactive hazards (such as polymerizable or peroxidizable). Reactive Groups-List of reactive groups that the chemical is assigned to, based on its known chemistry.
A chemical formula is a way of expressing information about the proportions of atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound, using a single line of chemical element symbols, numbers, and sometimes also other symbols, such as parentheses, dashes, brackets, commas and plus (+) and minus (−) signs. A chemical formula identifies each constituent element by its chemical symbol and indicates the proportionate number of atoms of each element. In empirical formulas, these proportions begin with a key element and then assign numbers of atoms of the other elements in the compound, as ratios to the key element.
In 1933, benzo[ a ]pyrene was determined to be the compound responsible for these cases, and its carcinogenicity was demonstrated when skin tumors occurred in laboratory animals repeatedly painted with coal tar. Properly speaking, benzo[ a ]pyrene is a procarcinogen, meaning that the mechanism of carcinogenesis of benzo[ a ]pyrene depends on enzymatic metabolism of benzo[ a ]pyrene to the ultimate mutagen, benzo[ a ]pyrene diol epoxide, pictured above at right.
Benzo[ a ]pyrene induces cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1) by binding to the AHR (aryl hydrocarbon receptor) in the cytosol. Properly speaking, benzo[ a ]pyrene is a procarcinogen, meaning that the mechanism of carcinogenesis of benzo[ a ]pyrene depends on enzymatic metabolism of benzo[ a ]pyrene to the ultimate mutagen, benzo[ a ]pyrene diol epoxide, pictured above at right.
Structural formula for butane. This is not a chemical formula. Examples of chemical formulas for butane are the empirical formula C 2 H 5, the molecular formula C 4 H 10 and the condensed (or semi-structural) formula CH 3 CH 2 CH 2 CH 3. A chemical formula identifies each constituent element by its chemical symbol and indicates the proportionate number of atoms of each element. In empirical formulas, these proportions begin with a key element and then assign numbers of atoms of the other elements in the compound, as ratios to the key element.
To select a proper shipping name, refer to the hazardous materials table at 49 CFR 172.101, and look for a descriptive name that corresponds to the hazards of your material. Then follow these steps to choose the proper shipping name: 1  If the name of the chemical (e.g., Acetone) is listed, and it corresponds to the hazard, this is the name you must choose. 2  If there is not a chemical name that corresponds to the hazard, look for an appropriate end use name (e.g., Coating solution or Paint). If you ship hazardous materials, there are several essential steps you must take to ensure your materials are properly prepared for transportation. The first ste p is to select the proper shipping name. Every subsequent step (e.g., marking, labeling, placarding, etc.) is dependent upon this first step.
Benzo[a]pyrene is a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon found in coal tar with the formula C 20 H 12. Its metabolites are mutagenic and highly carcinogenic, and it is listed as a Group 1 carcinogen by the IARC. The compound is one of the benzopyrenes, formed by a benzene ring fused to pyrene, and is the result of incomplete combustion at temperatures between 300 °C (572 °F) and 600 °C (1,112 °F). Properly speaking, benzo[ a ]pyrene is a procarcinogen, meaning that the mechanism of carcinogenesis of benzo[ a ]pyrene depends on enzymatic metabolism of benzo[ a ]pyrene to the ultimate mutagen, benzo[ a ]pyrene diol epoxide, pictured above at right.
Therefore, don't assume that you know the chemical composition of a substance based on its common name. This is a list of archaic chemical names and common names for chemicals, with their modern or IUPAC equivalent name. You also may be interested in the list of common chemicals and where to find them. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Chemical or scientific names are used to give an accurate description of a substance's composition. Even so, you rarely ask someone to pass the sodium chloride at the dinner table. It's important to remember that common names are inaccurate and vary from one place and time to another.