Though it was filmed in Hope almost 30 years ago, Rambo's First Blood continues to leave its mark on the tiny town, giving fans just enough reason to chase a piece of aging Hollywood action. With an attractive name like Hope, it’s a wonder the Fraser Valley town is not a more popular tourist destination. That's because almost 30 years ago, Hope was used as the film location for First Blood – the first film in the Rambo quadrilogy. When it was released in 1982, though up against box office heavyweights like ET the Extra Terrestrial, Star Trek II and Rocky III, First Blood grossed an estimated $15 million.
Film: First Blood. First Blood is the first film in the Rambo franchise, released in 1982. It is based on the novel of the same name written by David Morrell. 1 The Film of the Book: First Blood by David Morrell, as mentioned above. 2  Genre Savvy: Even before finding out that Rambo is an ex-Green Beret, Deputy Mitch was the first one to point out that Rambo was able to escape the police with surprising ease, being stronger and more skilled than the usual drifter.
Rambo First Blood-Filmed in Hope BC. In the early 1980s Hollywood brought the production of Rambo First Blood to Hope, BC where they transformed the small Canadian logging town into small town America. Many of the filming locations are still recognizable as you stroll through town today. 
On Location. First Blood was filmed on location in Hope in British Columbia. A map of the locations used and some behind-the-scenes details can be found here. The upper capilino canyon, in north Vancouver, was also used as a first blood location. 
Scott Hardy's. Although First Blood was filmed over thirty years ago, many of us are still fascinated with the movie that started the Rambo franchise. 
First Blood is a 1982 American action adventure film directed by Ted Kotcheff. It is co-written by and starring Sylvester Stallone as John Rambo, a troubled and misunderstood veteran who must rely on his combat and survival senses against the abusive law enforcement of a small town. In 2008, First Blood was named the 253rd greatest film ever by Empire magazine on its 2008 list of The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time. Contemporary and retrospective reviews of the film have been positive, and it is considered by many as one of the best films of 1982.
If James Cameron says anything more than that, then he realizes he’s now doing the backstroke badly in a pool of lies. Rambo: First Blood Part II (also known as Rambo II) is a 1985 American action film directed by George P. Cosmatos and starring Sylvester Stallone, who reprises his role as Vietnam veteran John Rambo. 
Get the filming locations DVD http://rambo-stallone-onthesetoffirst... FOLLOW ME ON FACEBOOK PAGE http://www.facebook.com/pages/On-The-... I went visiting Rambo locations in Hope BC Canada. This movie is dedicated to the Sylvester Stallone Rambo First Blood fans. I hope that you'll enjoy watching it as much as I enjoyed making it. Rambo: First Blood or Rambo outside the US), is a 1982 action/adventure film directed by Ted Kotcheff. 
Rambo: First Blood Part II (also known as Rambo II, Rambo II: The Vendetta and First Blood Part II) is a 1985 American film and the first sequel to 1982's First Blood. The film was the first to be mostly written by Sylvester Stallone, although he had the help of James Cameron. Rambo: First Blood Part II was filmed primarily in Mexico, in the jungles outside Acapulco as well as a Mexican air base.
Since its release, First Blood has received reappraisal from critics, with many praising the roles of Stallone, Dennehy, and Crenna, and has been recognized as a cult classic and an influential film in the action genre. In 2008, First Blood was named the 253rd greatest film ever by Empire magazine on its 2008 list of The 500 Greatest Movies of All Time. Contemporary and retrospective reviews of the film have been positive, and it is considered by many as one of the best films of 1982.