1 Profession: Actor. 2  Biography: After graduating from Georgetown University in 1997, Bradley Cooper set his sites on becoming not just a working actor, but a good actor.
1 Profession: Actor. 2  Biography: After graduating from Georgetown University in 1997, Bradley Cooper set his sites on becoming not just a working actor, but a good actor. 3  He enrolled in the Masters of Fine Arts program at the Actors Studio Drama School at New School University and...
Jennifer Lawrence and Bradley Cooper share a passionate kiss in the new trailer for their long-awaited movie Serena.
1 Biography: After graduating from Georgetown University in 1997, Bradley Cooper set his sites on becoming not just a working actor, but a good actor. 2  He enrolled in the Masters of Fine Arts program at the Actors Studio Drama School at New School University and...
Bradley Cooper wears short shorts! While filming on the set of his new movie American Sniper, the 39-year-old actor was snapped sporting a very revealing costume! Cooper was all smiles while filming a Navy Seals training scene dressed in super-short tan shorts that showed off lots of his muscular legs.
Talk about extreme! The American Sniper movie trailer is here and it's powerful to say the least. In the Clint Eastwood-directed flick, Bradley Cooper plays Chris Kyle, a real-life Navy SEAL who had the record for the highest number of sniper kills for any American. (Kyle died last year in a shooting at a gun range.).
1 Biography: After graduating from Georgetown University in 1997, Bradley Cooper set his sites on becoming not just a working actor, but a good actor. 2  He enrolled in the Masters of Fine Arts program at the Actors Studio Drama School at New School University and... 3  Continued.
Committing to his craft! Bradley Cooper stripped all the way down for the new movie issue of W magazine, dropping trou in promotion of his latest acting endeavor. The Oscar-nominated actor, 41, lost his clothes for W's February 2015 print, which highlights the best film performances ahead of awards season.