Common side effects of Keflex include: diarrhea, dizziness, tiredness, headache, stomach upset, abdominal pain, joint pain, vaginal itching or discharge, nausea/vomiting, itching/swelling, and rash. Keflex dosage depends on the condition being treated. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
Talk to your pharmacist for more details. Before using this medication, tell your doctor or pharmacist your medical history, especially of: kidney disease, stomach /intestinal disease (such as colitis). The liquid form of this product may contain sugar. Caution is advised if you have diabetes. Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of the following symptoms because these products may make them worse. Tell your doctor right away if you develop: persistent diarrhea, abdominal or stomach pain /cramping, blood /mucus in your stool.
Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. Use of this medication for prolonged or repeated periods may result in oral thrush or a new yeast infection. Contact your doctor if you notice white patches in your mouth, a change in vaginal discharge, or other new symptoms. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible
Side Effects and Interactions. Side effects from cephalosporin-type antibiotics are generally mild. Nevertheless, cephalexin can cause a range of digestive tract disorders. Indigestion, stomach pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea have been reported. If diarrhea becomes severe contact your physician, as it may be a warning of drug-induced colitis. It is one of the first of these to become available generically and is now often prescribed as cephalexin. This drug works against a wide variety of germs, including those that cause infections of the skin, lungs, throat, prostate, urinary tract, bones, and ears.
Precautions. Before taking cephalexin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to penicillins or other cephalosporins (such as cefpodoxime); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Do not use anti-diarrhea products or narcotic pain medications if you have any of the following symptoms because these products may make them worse. Tell your doctor right away if you develop: persistent diarrhea, abdominal or stomach pain /cramping, blood /mucus in your stool.
Summary: Upset stomach is found among people who take Cephalexin, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for. Personalized health information: on eHealthMe you can find out what patients like me (same gender, age) reported their drugs and conditions on FDA and social media since 1977. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Cephalexin side effects. 2  My dentist prescribed Cephalexin for a tooth abscess that I had. 3  A week later I notice a rash appearing on my stomach and back. 4  I went to the doctor and she said I had Pityriasis.
Many dogs that have a skin disorder and/or allergies may be able to take these two medications together daily. The down fall is that Cephalexin may cause a dogs stomach to become uneasy, individual may try giving this medication with food instead of on an empty stomach. The most common side effect of Benadryl is it tends to make dogs very tired. Cephalexin is one of those medications that are used for many different infections, so it is also a confusing medication knowing what your dog is taking it for. If you still need more information feel free to ask the thousands of Experts for fast and reliable answers.
More questions for: Cephalexin, Upset stomach. You may be interested at these reviews (Write a review): 1  Cephalexin side effects. 2  My dentist prescribed Cephalexin for a tooth abscess that I had. 3  A week later I notice a rash appearing on my stomach and back. 4  I went to the doctor and she said I had Pityriasis.
What is Cephalexin: Cephalexin is an antibiotic belonging to a class of drugs called cephalosporins that fight bacteria in the body. Cephalexin can be used to treat infections such as bronchitis as well as ear, skin, and urinary tract infections. Call your veterinarian for medical advice about any side effects to your pet. You may report side effects to the FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. What is the most important information I should know about Cephalexin: Cephalexin is a prescription medication available as 250mg and 500mg capsules.
Before using cephalexin, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any drugs (especially penicillins), or if you have kidney or liver disease, a stomach or intestinal disorder such as colitis, diabetes, or if you are malnourished. Take this medication for the entire length of time prescribed by your doctor. Call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  diarrhea that is watery or bloody; 2  seizure (convulsions); 3  fever, sore throat, and headache with a severe blistering, peeling, and red skin rash; 4  pale or yellowed skin, dark colored urine, fever, confusion or weakness;