A: Klonopin (clonazepam) in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam affects chemicals in the brain that can become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Clonazepam is commonly used to treat seizure disorders, panic disorders, and other conditions. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
1 You should not do both. 2  Klonopin can cause abuse and dependence. 3  Do not stop taking Klonopin all of a sudden. 4  Stopping Klonopin suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop, hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations), shaking, and stomach and muscle cramps. Klonopin can cause serious side effects, including: 1  Klonopin can slow your thinking and motor skills. 2  Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how Klonopin affects you.
Clonazepam is the generic form of the brand-name drug Klonopin, prescribed to treat seizures and panic attacks. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
Clonazepam is a benzodiazepine. It is approved for the treatment of panic disorder (with or without agoraphobia), as well as certain types of seizure disorders. 
Clonazepam is a prescription medication used to treat panic disorder and certain types of seizure disorders. Clonazepam belongs to a group of drugs called benzodiazepines, which help to slow down brain activity. 1 Stopping clonazepam suddenly can cause serious problems. 2  Clonazepam immediate-release tablets should be taken with water and swallowed whole. 3  Clonazepam disintegrating tablets can be taken with or without water. 4  Do not open the pouch until you are ready to take clonazepam.
1 Klonopin can cause abuse and dependence. 2  Do not stop taking Klonopin all of a sudden. 3  Stopping Klonopin suddenly can cause seizures that do not stop, hearing or seeing things that are not there (hallucinations), shaking, and stomach and muscle cramps. Klonopin can cause serious side effects, including: 1  Klonopin can slow your thinking and motor skills. 2  Do not drive, operate heavy machinery, or do other dangerous activities until you know how Klonopin affects you.
Klonopin® is the brand name for the drug Clonazepam. It is used to treat seizure disorders as well as panic disorders, anxiety disorders and mania. Klonopin is also used as short term treatment for depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder. 
A: Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines that affects chemicals in the brain. It is used primarily to treat anxiety disorders and seizures. Clonazepam may also be used to treat restless leg syndrome and social phobias. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.
Clonazepam is in a group of drugs called benzodiazepines (ben-zoe-dye-AZE-eh-peens). It affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause anxiety. Clonazepam is used to treat seizure disorders or panic disorder. Initial dose: Should not exceed 1.5 mg/day divided into three doses. Dosage may be increased in increments of 0.5 to 1 mg every 3 days until seizures are adequately controlled or until side effects preclude any further increase. · just now. Report Abuse. Clonazepam is a kind of benzodiazepine, a class of tranquilizer that acts on the GABA receptor (so does alcohol, which is why you aren't supposed to take them together). It definitely can make you drowsy, and cause problems with memory and concentration.
A: Klonopin (clonazepam) is a benzodiazepine that is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. According to the package insert, it has a half-life of 30-40 hours. The half-life represents the time it takes the body to reduce the amount of clonazepam by half. Clonazepam belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Clonazepam works by increasing the effects of GABA, a neurotransmitter that moderates the movement of nerve signals in the brain. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved clonazepam in 1975 under the brand name Klonopin for the Roche drug company.