If you fail to renew your license on-time (prior to your license expiration date), you may renew your license during the two year late renewal period immediately following your license expiration date. However, you cannot perform activities requiring a real estate license until your license has been renewed. Renewing Your License. Licenses are issued for a four-year period and should be renewed prior to the expiration date listed on the license. As a reminder, the CalBRE mails a renewal reminder letter to the licensee's mailing address of record approximately 60 days prior to the license expiration date.
Brokers first licensed on or after February 1, 2014: You will need to complete 30 hours of Broker Post-license CE before April 30, 2016. The 30 hours of post-license education must include a 15-hour Broker Post-license Topics course and a 15-hour Broker Post-license Applied Real Estate Principles course. By April 30, 2016 Illinois Broker licensees must have completed the continuing education (CE) requirements and applied to renew their license through the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR).
to the Renewal section of the Illinois Department of Financial & Professional Regulation website. At the bottom of this page you will find a list of professions which are currently in renewal. If your profession title is not listed below then either you are not required to renew at this time or your profession title is not regulated by this department. E-Batch renewals are ONLY to be used by businesses to renew licenses for their employees. E-Batch renewals are transacted through pre-setup ACH accounts that employers use to renew a group of their employees' licenses. Only professions eligible to renew online may also take advantage of this renewal method.
Be on the Look Out for Your License Renewal. Beginning the first week of February, the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR) will be mailing out postcards for the 2014 Real Estate broker license renewal. www.idfpr.com/dpr/renewal. The Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation is encouraging the on line renewal of Real Estate Broker Licenses. Around the first week of February, Broker licensees will begin receiving a postcard from the IDFPR.
There are two ways to renew your license with the IDFPR: 1  Apply Online The IDFPR permits online license renewal applications to be submitted up to 90 days before the license expires. 2  This option allows you to complete the entire renewal application and pay online. 3  Click one of the links below to apply online. 1
2016 Renewal Checklist | Renewal Q&A. By April 30, 2016 Illinois Broker licensees must have completed the continuing education (CE) requirements and applied to renew their license through the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR).
When you have completed the required coursework submit your renewal application with the $150 State of Illinois licensing fee to the Illinois Department of Financial & Professional Regulation (IDFPR) by April 30, 2016. www.idfpr.com. By April 30, 2016 Illinois Broker licensees must have completed the continuing education (CE) requirements and applied to renew their license through the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation (IDFPR).
The Examination Fees are $45 for either a salesperson applicant or a broker applicant. The license fees for real estate agents are $125 for a salesperson initial license and $100 for a salesperson to renew a license. If the salesperson license has expired, the renewal fee is $150. Brokers pay $125 initial license fee and $150 for the broker renewal fee
1 Mail Your Application-The IDFPR typically mails licensees a copy of the renewal applications 60 days before the license expires. 2  This application can be completed and returned to the address on the top of the form with payment. 1 Apply Online The IDFPR permits online license renewal applications to be submitted up to 90 days before the license expires. 2  This option allows you to complete the entire renewal application and pay online.