1 Anemia, Refractory, with Excess of Blasts, type 2 2  ... poor appetite. 3  Anesthetic agent-induced liver damage 4  ... loss of appetite. 5  Anesthetic agent-induced liver damage -- Chloroform 6  ... loss of appetite. 7  Anesthetic agent-induced liver damage -- Cyclopropane ... 1 Emotional disorders 2  ... Poor appetite. 3  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage 4  ... loss of appetite. 5  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage -- Anabolic C-17 6  ... loss of appetite. 7  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage -- Antithyroid drugs ...
1 Peptic ulcer / duodenal ulcer-poor appetite. 2  Peptic-ulcer like symptoms-reduced appetite. 3  Pernicious anemia-loss of appetite. 4  Persistent Truncus Arteriosus-reduced appetite. 5  Physical eating difficulties-such as pain when eating or swallowing pain; can lead people and especially children to try not to eat. 1 Emotional disorders 2  ... Poor appetite. 3  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage 4  ... loss of appetite. 5  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage -- Anabolic C-17 6  ... loss of appetite. 7  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage -- Antithyroid drugs ...
Appetite, poor. A person with a poor appetite or no appetite may eat much less than normal or may not eat at all. A poor appetite can be caused by a changed sense of taste or smell, feeling full, tumor growth, dehydration (see the section called “ Fluids (lack of) and dehydration ”), or the side effects of treatment. A poor appetite can be made worse by many things, such as trouble swallowing, depression, pain, nausea, or vomiting. (More information on these causes is given in the related sections.) A poor appetite is most often a short-term problem.
Disease causes of poor appetite. Chronic conditions can cause poor appetite including: Cancers (ovarian, pancreatic, colon, or stomach, for example). Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD, includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis). In some cases, poor appetite may be a symptom of a serious or life-threatening condition that should be immediately evaluated in an emergency setting. These include: Dehydration (loss of body fluids and electrolytes, which can be life threatening when severe and untreated).
Poor appetite is a common symptom of advanced age, cancer (especially of the colon, ovary or pancreas), chronic disease, or medication side effects. The first trimester of pregnancy is commonly associated with poor appetite that may be accompanied by nausea and vomiting. The medical term for poor appetite is anorexia. Poor appetite results from a decrease in the desire to eat. It may occur in conditions affecting the digestive system or along with more generalized conditions, such as infection, dehydration, or chronic disease. Medications, such as antibiotics, chemotherapy, and narcotics, are common causes of poor appetite. Chronic diseases, including heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD, includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis), hepatitis, and kidney failure, can all lead to poor appetite
Poor appetite: Introduction. Poor appetite: Loss or reduction in appetite for food. See detailed information below for a list of 1070 causes of Poor appetite, Symptom Checker, Assessment Questionnaire, including diseases and drug side effect causes. When combined, certain drugs, medications, substances or toxins may react causing Poor appetite as a symptom. Always advise your doctor of any medications or treatments you are using, including prescription, over-the-counter, supplements, herbal or alternative treatments.
A decreased appetite is almost always seen among elderly adults, and no cause may be found. However, sadness, depression, grief, or anxiety are a common cause of weight loss that is not explained by other factors, especially among the elderly. Cancer may also cause decreased appetite. You may lose weight without trying. Cancers that may cause you to lose your appetite include: 1  Colon cancer.
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Poor appetite: The following list of conditions have ' Poor appetite ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom. 1 Emotional disorders 2  ... Poor appetite. 3  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage 4  ... loss of appetite. 5  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage -- Anabolic C-17 6  ... loss of appetite. 7  Endocrine agent-induced liver damage -- Antithyroid drugs ...
Poor appetite results from a decrease in the desire to eat and is commonly seen in the elderly, whose daily caloric demand decreases with reduced physical activity. Those with cognitive impairment forget to prepare meals. In some cases, poor appetite may be a symptom of a serious or life-threatening condition that should be immediately evaluated in an emergency setting. These include: Dehydration (loss of body fluids and electrolytes, which can be life threatening when severe and untreated).