Rickrolling is an Internet meme involving the music video for the 1987 Rick Astley song  Never Gonna Give You Up . The meme is a bait and switch; a person provides a hyperlink which is seemingly relevant to the topic at hand, but actually leads to Astley's video. Rickrolling is said to have begun as a variant of an earlier prank from the imageboard 4chan known as duckrolling, in which a link to somewhere (such as a specific picture or news item) would instead lead to a thread or site containing an edited picture of a duck with wheels.
He is known for his 1987 song, Never Gonna Give You Up, which was a #1 hit single in 25 countries. Astley holds the record for being the only male solo artist to have his first 8 singles reach the Top 10 in the UK and by retirement in 1993 had sold approximately 40 million records worldwide. After retiring from the music industry in 1993, Astley made a comeback in 2007 when he became an Internet phenomenon, as his video for Never Gonna Give You Up became part of a popular Internet meme known as Rickrolling.
Richard Paul Rick Astley (/ˈrɪk ˈaestli/ ; ˈæstli born 6 february) 1966 is An english, singer, songwriter, musician and radio. personality Astley made a comeback in 2007, becoming an Internet phenomenon when his video Never Gonna Give You Up became integral to the Internet meme known as  rickrolling . Astley was voted Best Act Ever by Internet users at the MTV Europe Music Awards 2008.
Rick Astley was born on February 6, 1966 in Newton-le-Willows. He will be missed but not forgotten. Please show your sympathy and condolences by commenting on and liking this page.”. News of singer Rick Astley ’s death spread quickly earlier this week causing concern among fans across the world. However the October 2015 report has now been confirmed as a complete hoax and just the latest in a string of fake celebrity death reports. On Saturday (October 10) the singer's reps officially confirmed that Rick Astley is not dead. “ He joins the long list of celebrities who have been victimized by this hoax.
Never Gonna Give You Up is a single by Rick Astley from the album Whenever You Need Somebody, (1987). After retiring from the music industry in 1993, Astley made a comeback in 2007 when he became an Internet phenomenon, as his video for Never Gonna Give You Up became part of a popular Internet meme known as Rickrolling.
Astley recorded Never Gonna Give You Up on his 1987 album Whenever You Need Somebody. The song, his solo debut single, was a number one hit on several international charts, including the Billboard Hot 100, Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks and UK Singles Chart. Rickrolling is said to have begun as a variant of an earlier prank from the imageboard 4chan known as duckrolling, in which a link to somewhere (such as a specific picture or news item) would instead lead to a thread or site containing an edited picture of a duck with wheels.
read more. Richard Paul Astley (born February 6, 1966) is an English dance-pop singer, songwriter and musician. He was born in Newton-le-Willows, St Helens, Lancashire, England. Astley currently resides in Richmond, Surrey with his Danish girlfriend, Lene Bausager, and their daughter, Emilie. 
Richard Paul Astley was born on 6 February 1966 in Newton-le-Willows, Lancashire, England, the fourth child of his family. His parents divorced when he was five, and Astley was brought up by his father. His musical career started when he was ten, singing in the local church choir. Astley made a comeback in 2007, becoming an Internet phenomenon when his video Never Gonna Give You Up became integral to the Internet meme known as  rickrolling . Astley was voted Best Act Ever by Internet users at the MTV Europe Music Awards 2008.
Rick Astley. Soundtrack | Actor | Composer. This British singer was discoverd by the hit factory-producers Stock/Aitken/Waterman in 1987. They produced his biggest hits Never Gonna Give You Up, Whenever You Need Somebody, Together Forever and My Arms Keep Missing You. See full bio ». I was the youngest of four kids, and Dad, who had a garden centre before he retired, came from a large Lancashire family. Every one of my uncles had their own business, including a post office, two fish and chip shops and a painting and decorating business.