1 When a certificate of title is not required, only a registration is issued. 2  The county licensing official or their appointed deputy is required to inspect the vehicle prior to issuing a registration each time there is a change in ownership of the vehicle. 3  An inspection is not required for a registration renewal. 1 The county licensing official or their appointed deputy is required to inspect the vehicle prior to issuing a registration each time there is a change in ownership of the vehicle. 2
Every motor vehicle not more than 35 model years old which is domiciled in Alabama and is required to be registered in Alabama is required to have an Alabama certificate of title. What does it cost to make application for Alabama certificate of title? The title application fee is $15.00 for each application for Alabama certificate of title for a motor vehicle. The title application fee is $20.00 for each application for Alabama certificate of title for a manufactured home.
In Alabama, vehicles at least 35 model years old must be titled with the Alabama Department of Revenue's Motor Vehicle Division (MVD). You can find information below on how to title your car or complete a transfer of ownership in Alabama. Buying from a Private Seller. Take the following steps to complete an Alabama vehicle title transfer when purchasing a car from a private seller: 1  Have the seller assign the title certificate to you by completing all required fields on the certificate. 2  Complete any required fields on the title as the purchaser.
An Alabama MVD title transfer must take place when a vehicle changes ownership in Alabama. Read below to learn how to complete an AL car title transfer. Buying from a Private Seller. Take the following steps to complete an Alabama vehicle title transfer when purchasing a car from a private seller: 1  Have the seller assign the title certificate to you by completing all required fields on the certificate. 2  Complete any required fields on the title as the purchaser.
Selling a Car in Alabama. When you sell your car, the buyer is responsible for completing the DMV title transfer. However, it is your responsibility to do the following: 1  Fill all required fields on the title certificate to assign it to the buyer. 2  Complete a bill of sale. Buying from a Private Seller. Take the following steps to complete an Alabama vehicle title transfer when purchasing a car from a private seller: 1  Have the seller assign the title certificate to you by completing all required fields on the certificate. 2  Complete any required fields on the title as the purchaser.
Alabama does not require emissions inspections to register your vehicle. Out-of-state vehicles are required to have a VIN inspection before being registered in Alabama to make sure the vehicle identification number matches the numbers on the out-of-state title. Go to the county licensing office and submit: 1  The yellow copy of the Alabama title application, vehicle title, or manufacturer's certificate of origin. 2  Bill of sale with itemized sales tax information. 3  A dealer's affidavit, if the dealership was in another state.
Before registering your vehicle, you must first apply for an Alabama title. 2. Alabama requires insurance for all vehicles on Alabama roads. You will need to provide proof of insurance in order to register your vehicle. Go to the county licensing office and submit: 1  The yellow copy of the Alabama title application, vehicle title, or manufacturer's certificate of origin. 2  Bill of sale with itemized sales tax information. 3  A dealer's affidavit, if the dealership was in another state.
What you need to know about how to transfer a vehicle title in Alabama: 1  For any motor vehicle requiring a certificate of title, the vehicle owner must first apply for an Alabama certificate of title through a designated agent of the Alabama Department of Revenue. 1 The county licensing official or their appointed deputy is required to inspect the vehicle prior to issuing a registration each time there is a change in ownership of the vehicle. 2  An inspection is not required for a registration renewal.
Depending on the vehicle type, the county official may require additional documentation (i.e., EPA and DOT certification letters). The cost of an Alabama title is $15, plus a $3 fee due to the county licensing official. Once the Alabama title has been issued (if required), you will be able to register the vehicle. The cost of a standard passenger license plate is $23, plus $1.25 issuance fee. 
The process for transferring a title when you buy a car in Alabama differs depending on whether you're purchasing the vehicle from a dealer or a private seller. Buying from a Dealer. Licensed dealers in Alabama are authorized to process car title transfers themselves. Buying from a Private Seller. Take the following steps to complete an Alabama vehicle title transfer when purchasing a car from a private seller: 1  Have the seller assign the title certificate to you by completing all required fields on the certificate. 2  Complete any required fields on the title as the purchaser.