Lithium chloride is used to make lithium metal. Lithium chloride is melted and electrolyzed. This makes liquid lithium metal. It is used to dry air. It is also used as a flux for aluminium. It can be used in making organic compounds. It can be used to color flames red. Lithium chloride can be made by igniting lithium and chlorine, but it is difficult because the reaction is violent. This makes the anhydrous (without water attached) form. Another way is mixing lithium oxide, lithium hydroxide, or lithium carbonate with hydrochloric acid.
Lithium compounds are used as a psychiatric medication. A number of salts of lithium are used as mood-stabilizing drugs, primarily in the treatment of bipolar disorder, where they have a role in treating depression and, particularly, of mania, both acutely and in the long term.
Lithium chloride-Identification, toxicity, use, water pollution potential, ecological toxicity and regulatory information. Note: See Working with the Information on this Page section below for important notes about this data. 1. PAN Bad Actors are chemicals that are one or more of the following: highly acutely toxic, cholinesterase inhibitor, known/probable carcinogen, known groundwater pollutant or known reproductive or developmental toxicant. NOTE!
1 Neurologic effects of lithium toxicity include tremors, lethargy, confusion, seizures, and coma. 2  GI effects of lithium toxicity include nausea, vomiting, crampy abdominal pain, and diarrhea. 3  Mild-to-moderate lithium toxicity is characterized by tremor, weakness, and mild confusion. Toxicity can refer to the effect on a whole organism, such as an animal, bacterium, or plant … , as well as the effect on a substructure of the organism, such as a cell (cytotoxicity) or an organ (organotoxicity), such as the liver (hepatotoxicity). how toxic something is or what makes something toxins.
Lithium chloride is mainly used for the production of lithium metal by electrolysis of a LiCl/ KCl melt at 450 °C (842 °F). LiCl is also used as a brazing flux for aluminium in automobile parts. It is used as a desiccant for drying air streams. In more specialized applications, lithium chloride finds some use in organic synthesis, e.g., as an additive in the Stille reaction.
As a mood stabilizer, lithium is probably more effective in preventing mania than in preventing depression, but it does reduce the risk of suicide in people with bipolar disorder. In depression alone (unipolar disorder), lithium can be used to augment other antidepressants. A number of salts of lithium are used as mood-stabilizing drugs, primarily in the treatment of bipolar disorder, where they have a role in treating depression and, particularly, of mania, both acutely and in the long term.
No. Indicates high toxicity in the given toxicological category. Indicates no available weight-of-the-evidence summary assessment. For additional information on toxicity from scientific journals or registration documents, see the Additional Resources for Toxicity  section of the chemical detail page. 1. PAN Bad Actors are chemicals that are one or more of the following: highly acutely toxic, cholinesterase inhibitor, known/probable carcinogen, known groundwater pollutant or known reproductive or developmental toxicant. NOTE!
Lithium chloride is also used as a flame colorant to produce dark red flames. Lithium chloride is used as a relative humidity standard in the calibration of hygrometers. At 25 °C (77 °F) a saturated solution (45.8%) of the salt will yield an equilibrium relative humidity of 11.30%. Additionally, lithium chloride can itself be used as a hygrometer. LiCl is also used as a brazing flux for aluminium in automobile parts. It is used as a desiccant for drying air streams. In more specialized applications, lithium chloride finds some use in organic synthesis, e.g., as an additive in the Stille reaction.
1 Mild-to-moderate lithium toxicity is characterized by tremor, weakness, and mild confusion. 2  Moderate-to-severe lithium toxicity is characterized by altered mental status, muscle fasciculations, stupor, seizures, coma, hyperreflexia, and cardiovascular collapse. 3  Linakis JG, Savitt DL, Wu TY, Lockhart GR, Lacouture PG. Toxicity can refer to the effect on a whole organism, such as an animal, bacterium, or plant … , as well as the effect on a substructure of the organism, such as a cell (cytotoxicity) or an organ (organotoxicity), such as the liver (hepatotoxicity). how toxic something is or what makes something toxins.
Lithium orotate (C 5H 3LiN 2O 4), has been presented as an alternative. Lithium bromide and lithium chloride have been used in the past as salt; however, they fell out of use in the 1940s, when it was discovered they were toxic in those large doses. A number of salts of lithium are used as mood-stabilizing drugs, primarily in the treatment of bipolar disorder, where they have a role in treating depression and, particularly, of mania, both acutely and in the long term.