Practice Essentials. Dry eye syndrome (DES), also known as keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS) or keratitis sicca, is a multifactorial disease of the tears and the ocular surface that results in discomfort, visual disturbance, and tear film instability with potential damage to the ocular surface.
Keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS) , also called dry eye syndrome (DES) or keratitis sicca, is an eye disease caused by eye dryness, which, in turn, is caused by either decreased tear production or increased tear film evaporation. 
Dry eye syndrome, or dry eye disease, is a common condition that occurs when the eyes do not make enough tears or the tears evaporate too quickly. This leads to the eyes drying out and becoming inflamed (red and swollen) and irritated. Dry eye syndrome is also known as keratoconjunctivitis sicca, or simply 'dry eyes'. How dry eye syndrome is treated. Dry eye syndrome is not usually a serious condition. Treatments are available to help relieve the symptoms, which include eye drops to lubricate the eyes, medications to reduce any inflammation, and (if necessary) surgery to prevent tears from draining away easily.
Knowledge center. Dry eye syndrome, also known as keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS), keratitis sicca, sicca syndrome, xerophthalmia, or simply dry eyes, is an eye disease in which tear film evaporation is high or tear production is low. Dry eye syndrome is commonly found in humans and some animals. 1 Reflex tears-it is ironic that people with dry eye syndrome may sometimes produce too many tears. 2  There are two types of tear production: 1. Basic tears; tears are produced at a slow and steady rate. 3  2. 4  Reflex tears-tears are produced in large quantities in response to some irritant or emotion.
Dry eye syndrome facts. 1  Dry eye syndrome is a very common and usually benign condition that is characterized by a disturbance of the tear film. 2  This abnormality may result in disruption of the ocular surface, causing a variety of symptoms and signs and interference with quality of life. Dry eye syndrome facts. 1  Dry eye syndrome is a very common and usually benign condition that is characterized by a disturbance of the tear film. 2  To help keep the eyes comfortable and vision optimal, a normal, thin film of tears coats the eyes. 3  The innermost layer is the thinnest. 4  The middle (or aqueous) layer is the largest and the thickest. 5  The ...
Dry eye syndrome (DES) -- also called dry eye or keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS) -- is a common disorder of the tear film that affects a significant percentage of the population, especially those older than 40 years of age. Dry eye syndrome can affect any race, and is more common in women than in men. Dry eye syndrome facts. 1  Dry eye syndrome is a very common and usually benign condition that is characterized by a disturbance of the tear film. 2  To help keep the eyes comfortable and vision optimal, a normal, thin film of tears coats the eyes. 3  The innermost layer is the thinnest. 4  The middle (or aqueous) layer is the largest and the thickest. 5  The ...
Dry Eye Syndrome ». Dry eye is a multifactorial disease of the tears and the ocular surface that results in symptoms of discomfort, visual disturbance, and tear film instability with potential damage to the ocular surface. Read More on Medscape Reference ». 
Dry eye is a condition in which there are insufficient tears to lubricate and nourish the eye. Tears are necessary for maintaining the health of the front surface of the eye and for providing clear vision. People with dry eyes either do not produce enough tears or have a poor quality of tears. This condition, called keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS), is also referred to as dry eye syndrome. People with dry eyes may experience symptoms of irritated, gritty, scratchy, or burning eyes, a feeling of something in their eyes, excess watering, and blurred vision.
1 Dry eye syndrome is a very common and usually benign condition that is characterized by a disturbance of the tear film. 2  This abnormality may result in disruption of the ocular surface, causing a variety of symptoms and signs and interference with quality of life. Dry eye syndrome facts. 1  Dry eye syndrome is a very common and usually benign condition that is characterized by a disturbance of the tear film. 2  To help keep the eyes comfortable and vision optimal, a normal, thin film of tears coats the eyes. 3  The innermost layer is the thinnest. 4  The middle (or aqueous) layer is the largest and the thickest. 5  The ...