A lot of people don't know who the Celts are. The Celts were tribes  that roamed around Europe, but especially where modern day Ireland,  Scotland, and Britain lie. The Celt … s were a warrior race like the  Mongols.
Celts originated in central Europe not Ireland.They word Celt comes from the Greek word keltoi   ANOTHER ANSWER:   The Celts of Britain and Ireland are descend … ed from Post-Ice Age settler from Northern Spain, especially the Basque country.
No-one called the people living in Britain during the Iron Age, Celts until the eighteenth century. In fact the Romans called these people Britons, not Celts. The name Celts is a 'modern' name and is used to collectively describe all the many tribes of people living during the Iron Age.
The early Celts were semi nomadic and tribal, and by 800 to 600 BC had spread to, and were established in the countries we now know of as France, Belgium, Holland, Great Britain(by 600BC), Ireland, and parts of Austria, Switzerland, Germany, pain and Portugal.
Celts originated in central Europe not Ireland.They word Celt comes from the Greek word keltoi. ANOTHER ANSWER: The Celts of Britain and Ireland are descended from Post-Ice Age settler from Northern Spain, especially the Basque country. This is indicated by the Y-chromosome studies of the past sveral years.
The Celts also occupied what we now call Turkey. The word Celt (Kelt) comes from the Greek word Keltoy (pronounced Kel-too) - it refers to Barbarian people to the north of Greece. The Celts are made up of Germanic Tribes-now recognised in such as Britain, Ireland, France (Britanny) and Spain (Basque).
The “Celts” refer to a people that thrived in both ancient and modern times. Today, the term often refers to the cultures, languages and people that are based in Scotland, Ireland, other parts of the British Isles and Brittany in France.
The Celts of Britain and Ireland are descended from a population who expanded out of northern Spain after the last Ice Age (See R1b on Wiki). The DNA doesn't show any conn … ection with Berbers.