Perhaps you are using the peroxide gargle for bad breath or Halitosis. Peroxide-containing mouthwashes are available over-the-counter and they are safe to use, as is the 3 percent hydrogen peroxide solution that you probably keep in your medicine cabinet.
Hydrogen Peroxide is a great mouthwash. It kills the bacteria in your mouth which the cause of bad breath. Also brightens your teeth a bit. I take a swig of 3%, swirl it around my mouth for a min or so, spit it out and wallah, breath is fresh.
Peroxide may kill some bacteria in the throat, but whether you should be trying to kill them is another matter entirely. We are absolutely besieged these days by ads for anti-bacterial products — soaps, detergents and household cleansers, cutting boards, bandages, toys, cosmetics, even ice packs.
1 Gargle with a mouth wash solution first. 2  If you do not swallow the mouth wash, you can probably successfully gargle hydrogen peroxide. 3  Ask your dentist for other tips about how to safely gargle hydrogen peroxide. 4  Never allow children to gargle with hydrogen peroxide. 5  If swallowed, the mixture can cause poisoning.
Gargle with hydrogen peroxide, and not only will you kill bacteria in your mouth, but you will also help to whiten your teeth. But you have to be careful. Hydrogen peroxide is an acid, and it can damage the tissues in your mouth if you are not careful. Here are some suggestions on how to gargle hydrogen peroxide safely.
Gargling with Peroxide. Hydrogen peroxide is a chemical agent, usually represented chemically as H 2 O 2. It is commonly found in kitchens and bathroom products for the purpose of disinfection. They are also used for clearing off and sanitization of minor cuts.
1 Practice before you try hydrogen peroxide. 2  Gargle with a mouth wash solution first. 3  If you do not swallow the mouth wash, you can probably successfully gargle hydrogen peroxide. 4  Ask your dentist for other tips about how to safely gargle hydrogen peroxide. 5  Never allow children to gargle with
1. Brush your teeth -- and tongue -- twice a day to banish bad breath. While you’re brushing your teeth with a fluoride toothpaste, brush your tongue – especially the back of the tongue. Brushing your tongue will remove smelly bacteria that cause