Adderall is a stimulant prescribed to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. By the definition from the US National Library of Medicine, stimulants are drugs that increase your heart rate, breathing rate, and brain function. These body function changes increase a person’s attention, alertness, and energy. There are several substances and drugs that are considered stimulants and that are legal. While these also carry a potential for addiction, their accepted uses are important. Others, such as caffeine, have a lower potential for abuse than illegal stimulants. These are all legal stimulants: 1  Caffeine. 2  Nicotine.
What are stimulants? As the name suggests, stimulants increase alertness, attention, and energy, as well as elevate blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration. Stimulants historically were used to treat asthma and other respiratory problems, obesity, neurological disorders, and a variety of other ailments. 
C-Cocaine Cocaine is a powerfully addictive stimulant drug made from the leaves of the coca plant native to South America. It produces short-term euphoria, energy, and talkativeness in addition to potentially dangerous physical effects like raising heart rate and blood pressure. Show full answer. 
1 The Most Commonly Prescribed ADHD Stimulants Stimulants are the most popular type of medications that are used to treat Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder and Attention Deficit Disorder. 2  ADHD stimulants work by in…. 1 One of the most popular drugs for treating ADHD in both adults and children is Strattera. 2  The drug is prescribed to help patients manage the symptoms of the disorder such as 3  …. Common Side Effects Associated With Lexapro Lexapro is a medication commonly used to treat anxiety and depression in adults.
Unfortunately, stimulants are a very popular form of drug, however, treatment for addiction to these drugs is also increasingly popular and easily available through 12-step meetings, counseling and treatment centers. When these types of drugs are prescribed by doctors, typically, they require additional authorization when refilling your prescription in an attempt to monitor the patients use. Illegal stimulants such as methamphetamine, crack, cocaine or ecstasy are extremely addictive. They cause extreme levels of energy, mind racing, heart racing, elevated mood and a sense of euphoria. Side effects include loss of appetite, insomnia, and weight los
Because they may produce euphoria, these drugs are also frequently abused for recreational purposes (i.e., to get high). Euphoria from stimulants is generally produced when pills are crushed and then snorted or mixed with water and injected. They are prescribed to patients for daily use, and come in the form of tablets or capsules of varying dosages. Treatment of ADHD with stimulants, often in conjunction with psychotherapy, helps to improve ADHD symptoms along with the patient’s self-esteem, thinking ability, and social and family interactions.
Stimulant drugs are illegal to abuse and aside from the ones legally prescribed to patients to help with medical ailments, all stimulants are illegal. Furthermore, stimulants can be mixed with other drugs to produce more powerful effects. Ritalin: Ritalin is another stimulant drug that is legally prescribed to people who suffer from sleeping disorders or ADHD. Ecstasy: Ecstasy, now more commonly known as Molly, is a stimulant drug that is mixed with other drugs to cause distortions in senses and feelings.
DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). They are prescribed to patients for daily use, and come in the form of tablets or capsules of varying dosages. Treatment of ADHD with stimulants, often in conjunction with psychotherapy, helps to improve ADHD symptoms along with the patient’s self-esteem, thinking ability, and social and family interactions.
Some illegal drugs are considered stimulants because of the effects they cause. These are all illegal stimulants: 1  Cocaine. 2  Crack cocaine. 3  Methamphetamine (meth, crystal meth). 4  Speed. 5  MDMA. There are several substances and drugs that are considered stimulants and that are legal. While these also carry a potential for addiction, their accepted uses are important. Others, such as caffeine, have a lower potential for abuse than illegal stimulants. These are all legal stimulants: 1  Caffeine. 2  Nicotine.