Oocyte Polarity and the Embryonic Axes: The Balbiani Body, an Ancient Oocyte Asymmetry. The divisions of the germline stem cell are asymmetric in that they generate a renewing cell and a cell with the capacity to differentiate as an oocyte. Regulators of Balbiani body dynamics in zebrafish oocytes. (A) Formation of the Balbiani body adjacent to the nucleus requires the novel protein Bucky ball, while Magellan/MacF1 (an actin-microtubule crosslinking protein) contributes to dispersal of the (more...).
In contrast to bucky ball mutant oocytes, which fail to form Balbiani bodies, primary oocytes of magellan mutants are able to recruit germ plasm mRNAs and mitochondria to establish a Balbiani body that initially resembles the Balbiani body of wild-type oocytes (Gupta et al., 2010). Regulators of Balbiani body dynamics in zebrafish oocytes. (A) Formation of the Balbiani body adjacent to the nucleus requires the novel protein Bucky ball, while Magellan/MacF1 (an actin-microtubule crosslinking protein) contributes to dispersal of the (more...).
bucky ball is the first gene in a vertebrate known to function in Balbiani body formation. In Xenopus and zebrafish, vegetal pole destined transcripts co-localize with the Balbiani body, leading to the hypothesis that it functions early in a vegetal pole localization pathway (Kloc et al., 2004b; Kosaka et al., 2007). To investigate if bucky ball functions in the establishment of the earliest known polarized structure in zebrafish and Xenopus, the Balbiani body or mitochondrial cloud, we determined if the Balbiani body was affected in bucky ball mutants.
Specialized cells undergo repeated rounds of DNA replication without cell division (endomitosis), to increase cell volume, forming a giant polytene chromosome. Polytene chromosomes form when multiple rounds of replication produce many sister chromatids that remain synapsed together. Polytene chromosomes were originally observed in the larval salivary glands of Chironomus midges by Balbiani in 1881, but the hereditary nature of these structures was not confirmed until they were studied in Drosophila melanogaster in the early 1930s by Emil Heitz and Hans Bauer.
The Balbiani body is an aggregate of mitochondria, ER, germinal granules and transcripts, which forms adjacent to the germinal vesicle (GV, the oocyte nucleus) in stage I oocytes. It moves vegetally and dissociates, leaving the germinal granules and vegetally-destined transcripts localized to the vegetal pole. To investigate if bucky ball functions in the establishment of the earliest known polarized structure in zebrafish and Xenopus, the Balbiani body or mitochondrial cloud, we determined if the Balbiani body was affected in bucky ball mutants.
In the absence of bucky ball the Balbiani body fails to form, and vegetal mRNAs are not localized in oocytes. In contrast, animal pole-localized oocyte markers are expanded into vegetal regions in bucky ball mutants, but patterning within the expanded animal pole remains intact. To investigate if bucky ball functions in the establishment of the earliest known polarized structure in zebrafish and Xenopus, the Balbiani body or mitochondrial cloud, we determined if the Balbiani body was affected in bucky ball mutants.
(A) EM images of Balbiani bodies (pink arrows) in the primary oocytes of model organisms and humans. The Balbiani body is composed of organelles including (more...). Balbiani bodies share many features with P-bodies and stress bodies of other cell types. P bodies and stress bodies are distinct cellular granules containing mRNAs and enzymes that mediate mRNA turnover or storage. Regulators of Balbiani body dynamics in zebrafish oocytes. (A) Formation of the Balbiani body adjacent to the nucleus requires the novel protein Bucky ball, while Magellan/MacF1 (an actin-microtubule crosslinking protein) contributes to dispersal of the (more...).
The Balbiani body is an evolutionarily conserved asymmetric aggregate of organelles that is present in early oocytes of all animals examined, including humans. Although first identified more than 150 years ago, genes acting in the assembly of the Balbiani body have not been identified in a vertebrate. To investigate if bucky ball functions in the establishment of the earliest known polarized structure in zebrafish and Xenopus, the Balbiani body or mitochondrial cloud, we determined if the Balbiani body was affected in bucky ball mutants.
1. Define the role(s) of ooplasmic Balbiani bodies in body plan patterning and cell fate determination during embryogenesis. 2. Investigate the functions of ooplasmic ecdysone during insect embryogenesis. 3. Determine the biological significance of nonrandom distributions of yolk proteins within insect oocytes. Understanding how a complex organism develops from a single fertilized egg is critical for improved agricultural and medical practices. Crucial information for accomplishing this is assembled in the cytoplasm of the egg before fertilization.