Location Information. The Messines Ridge (New Zealand) Memorial to the Missing is situated within Messines Ridge British Cemetery, which is located 9.5 Kms south of Ieper town centre on the Nieuwkerkestraat, a road leading from the Rijselseweg, N365, which connects Ieper to Wijtschate, Mesen and on to Armentieres. Locality: West-Vlaanderen. The Messines Ridge (New Zealand) Memorial to the Missing is situated within Messines Ridge British Cemetery, which is located 9.5 Kms south of Ieper town centre on the Nieuwkerkestraat, a road leading from the Rijselseweg, N365, which connects Ieper to Wijtschate, Mesen and on to Armentieres.
Sao Bartolomeo de Messines. Most of our Holiday villas located between Silves and Sao Bartolomeu de Messines (Messines), Algarve Portugal. Messines is short for Sao Bartolomeu de Messines and is a turn off from the highway the A22. 50 kilometres from Faro, the capital of the Algarve and 15 kilometres from historic town Silves. 
Spanbroekmolen crater in November 2009. It was created in 1917 by one of the mines in the Battle of Messines. It is also known as Lone Tree Crater or Pool of Peace and located on one of the highest points of the Messines Ridge. 
14-Jun-1917. The Battle of Messines was an offensive by the British Second Army against the German Front Line on the high ground of the Wytschaete-Messines Ridge. The ridge lay in a north to south direction a few miles south of the town of Ypres. 
Both cemetery and memorial were designed by Charles Holden. Locality: West-Vlaanderen. Messines Ridge British Cemetery is located 9.5 Kms south of Ieper town centre on the Nieuwkerkestraat, a road leading from the Rijselseweg, N365, which connects Ieper to Wijtschate, Mesen and on to Armentieres. 
Our location guide for Sao Bartolomeu de Messines provides some basic essentials for the more adventurous visitor. A simple location map is provided but also a detailed topography map that shows the location of the nearest places where you can surf, ski or mountain climb (if they are close by). If you are traveling to other cities or towns near Sao Bartolomeu de Messines you will also find weather forecasts for those locations below. Sao Bartolomeu de Messines Location Map (Silves, Faro, Portugal).
The overall front of the Messines offensive was around nine miles, stretching from near Hill 60 in the north in a crescent shape reflecting the German held salient or bulge here, to St. Yves just above Ploegsteert Wood in the south. Spanbroekmolen was the largest of the mines which were blown at the start of the assault on Messines Ridge. At the entrance to the site is an information board, giving facts about the mine and the crater. Work on it commenced on January the 1st, 1916, and the mine was effectively completed by the 26th of June, 1916.
In 1914 Spanbroekmolen was the site of a windmill (“molen” is the Dutch word for “mill”). At the end of the First Battle of Ypres in November 1914 the German Front Line was established in this location on the high ground of the Messines Ridge. 
Alanmac69, United Kingdom. Located in the countryside of Algarve in Sao São bartolomeu De, Messines Bartholomeu guesthouse offers-air conditioned rooms with a mix of modern and old in an 1893 recently renovated. building