Often, one of the adult wolves stays with the pups to watch over them. Wolf pups love to play. They chase each other and roll around the way dog puppies do. Many of their games appear to be a sort of practice for the things they will do as adult wolves. Pups have been observed playing with toys like bones, feathers or the skins of dead animals. This sounds terrible to us, but wolf pups love it! All the wolves in a pack help take care of the pups. When the pups are very small, other pack members bring food to the mother so she does not have to leave the den.
The young timber wolves and Bengal tigers seem unaware that they are supposed to be sworn enemies as they play for the cameras in their South Carolina home. On the prowl: Wolf and Tiger cubs play together at Myrtle Beach South Carolina Zoo. The cubs are happy hanging out with each other, but it would be a different story in the wild. Now aged three months, and sharing the same bottles of milk formula, the 25lb wolf cubs are twice the weight of their tiger bedfellows.
To Learn more about dens, Click, here. Wolf pups at this age may be preyed upon by Golden Eagles, Bear can also prey on young pups. There are several records of a number of adult wolves decoying bears away from their pups' den until they left. This sounds terrible to us, but wolf pups love it! All the wolves in a pack help take care of the pups. When the pups are very small, other pack members bring food to the mother so she does not have to leave the den.
After he has earned the Wolf badge, a Wolf Cub Scout can work on the Wolf Electives until he finishes second grade (or turns 9 years old). When he completes 10 elective projects, he earns a Gold Arrow Point to wear under the Wolf badge. 
Captive wolf puppies are usually taken from their mother at the age of 14 days, preferably no later than 21 days. Wolf pups require more socialisation than dog pups, and will typically stop responding to socialisation at the age of 19 days, as opposed to dogs which can still be socialised at the age of 16 weeks. Ordinary pet food is inadequate, as an adult wolf needs 1-2.5 kg (2-5 lbs) of meat daily along with bones, skin and fur to meet its nutritional requirements. Wolves may defend their food against people, and react violently to people trying to remove it. The exercise needs of a wolf exceed the average dog's demand.
There is point-two-percent difference between the DNA of a domestic dog, and the DNA of a grey wolf. The difference between a coyote and domestic dog is higher, at four per cent. Domestic dogs are said to originate from wolf cubs that were used as guards by humans over 40,000 years ago in southeast Asia. Since that time wolves have been domesticated and used have been used by humans for hunting and herding. There are around 400 modern breeds of domesticated dogs. Dogs are seen as loving creatures, whereas their wolf cousins are considered wild and ferocious. A study from Massachusetts has discovered this may be due to their early stages of development. Evolutionary biologist Dr Kathryn Lord studied how seven wolf pups and 43 dogs reacted to smells, sounds and visual stimuli.
In 1916, Lord Baden-Powell set up Wolf Cubs for the younger brothers of the Scouts who were desperate to join in the fun. Wolf Cubs are based around ‘Rudyard Kipling’s Jungle Book’. Where a young boy brought up by a Wolf pack has to learn to develop to be a self sufficient man. 
In other years, most or all survive. Of the wolves that survive their first six to nine months, most are dead by three or four years of age. Every year, one in four or five adult wolves dies in a healthy wolf population. Alpha wolves tend to be the longest lived. They commonly live for between six and nine years. Of the pups that survive their first year, only about one or two of every ten rise to the level of alpha. Wolves living in packs walk for two basic reasons-to capture food and to defend their territories. Isle Royale wolf territories average about 75 square miles. This is small compared to some wolf populations, where territories can be as large as 500
Pup mortality ranges from 30% to 60%. Pups die from diseases, malnutrition and starvation, life in the wild can be difficult. Wolves being very social animals are known to bury the dead pups, In R.D Lawrences' In praise of wolves pack members mourn as deeply as might a human family. This sounds terrible to us, but wolf pups love it! All the wolves in a pack help take care of the pups. When the pups are very small, other pack members bring food to the mother so she does not have to leave the den.
Our wolves are wolf. There are other Wolfhaven facilities out there that mix with dog, plain and simple, we DON'T. When a wolf is mixed with a dog that makes a dangerous animal. To sum it up, no matter what you hear, ours are 99% wolf. Our wolves have all the traits of a wolf. 