Slovakias total area is about 48,845 sq km (about 18,859 sq mi). The countrys maximum length from east to west is about 416 km (about 258 mi), and its maximum width from north to south is about 208 km (about 129 mi). The Danube River, located in the southwest, forms part of Slovakias border with Hungary.
Day Trips From Bratislava, Slovakia-The Top 40 Destinations. Bratislava is located near the point where the borders of several different countries meet, which means that it is possible to make day trips not only in Slovakia but also in Austria, Hungary and the Czech Republic. * Tematin Tematín, Castle - (slovakia 2) Hours take a train From bratislava main station To Nove nové Mesto, nad vahom váhom then take a bus from outside the train station to The village of luka lúka and-walk up the blue marked trail to. reach the castle ruins
It is bordered by the Czech Republic and Austria to the west, Poland to the north, Ukraine to the east and Hungary to the south. Slovakia's territory spans about 49,000 square kilometres (19,000 sq mi) and is mostly mountainous. Slovakia (/slɵˈvaːkiə/ ; Slovak: Slovensko [ˈslovɛnsko]. ), officially the Slovak Republic (Slovak: Slovenska slovenská, republika (listen·help)), info is a country In Central. europe
Bratislava lies on the border of two other countries and has a relatively good road system. The town can be accessed by motorways (i.e. limited access highway) from northern Slovakia and Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary as well as Austria. As a result, you can pass the town without having to leave the motorway at all. 1 The public transport company of Bratislava (DPB) runs a cross-border bus line no. 901 between Hainburg an der Donau (Austria) and Bratislava, with a stop in the Austrian town of Wolfsthal. 2  In Bratislava, the terminus is the stop Nový most. 3  Price is 1,50€/one way or 2,90€/return.
Slovakia (/slɵˈvaːkiə/ ; Slovak: Slovensko [ˈslovɛnsko]. ), officially the Slovak Republic (Slovak: Slovenska slovenská, republika (listen·help)), info is a country In Central. Europe it is bordered by The Czech republic And austria to the, West poland to the, North ukraine to the east And hungary to the. south Slovakia (/slɵˈvaːkiə/ ; Slovak: Slovensko [ˈslovɛnsko]. ), officially the Slovak Republic (Slovak: Slovenska slovenská, republika (listen·help)), info is a country In Central. europe
Hungary. The border with Hungary is 677 km long. From the outset of Slovakia’s establishment, both of the countries try to have a good relationship. Hungary is one of the most important target countries, total export from Slovakia to Hungary is 7.2%. Along with Slovakia, four of the neighbouring countries (Czech Republic, Poland, Austria, Hungary) are members of European Union and in the Shengen Area. That means people and goods can freely cross the borders without passport control.
1 Into Bratislava: Similarly, drivers entering Slovakia using the motorway from Budapest to Bratislava have to buy a toll sticker right at the border, since it is required for approx. 2  10km-long stretch of the motorway between the Hungarian border and the first interchange in Slovakia (Jarovce). Slovakia is a member of the Schengen Agreement. There are no border controls between countries that have signed and implemented this treaty-the European Union (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom), Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
The Hron, is a 298 km long tributary of the Danube and the second longest river in Slovakia. Its basin covers approximately 11% of Slovakia's territory. The lowest point of Slovakia lies near a place where the Bodrog River crosses the border with Hungary, at 308 ft (94m) above sea level. Slovakia is rich in small natural lakes, as well as reservoirs that were built in order to store water to prevent flooding or to generate electricity. And Slovakia is the only European country outside of Scandinavia to have a geyser. Located near Kosice, the geyser shoots 1,056 gallons of water 98 feet into the air for 20 minutes once every 32-34 hours.
Rather than taking a bus or train from Budapest to Bratislava (or Bratislava to Budapest), let us pick you up and drive you there … while stopping at a few wineries and visiting some of the charming towns along the way. The route will take us along the Danube, from northwestern Hungary through southwestern Slovakia. 