White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. Monocytes and neutrophils are phagocytic. The number of leukocytes in the blood is often an indicator of disease, and thus the WBC count is an important subset of the complete blood count. The normal white cell count is usually between 4 and 11 × 10 9 /L. In the US this is usually expressed as 4,000–11,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood. They make up approximately 1% of the total blood volume in a healthy adult. An increase in the number of leukocytes over the upper limits is called leukocytosis, and a decrease below the lower limit is called leukopenia
The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host. Natural killer cells, or NK cells, are a component of the innate immune system that does not directly attack invading microbes. Rather, NK cells destroy compromised host cells, such as tumor cells or virus-infected cells, recognizing such cells by a condition known as missing self..
a. Monocytes are important phagocytes. b. Monocytes differentiate into macrophages (def) and dendritic cells (def) when they leave the blood and enter the tissue. Macrophages and dendritic cells are very important in phagocytosis and serve as antigen-presenting cells (def) in the adaptive immune responses (see below).
The adaptive immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system). Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, leads to an enhanced response to subsequent encounters with that pathogen. The acquired response is called adaptive because it prepares the body's immune system for future challenges (though it can actually also be maladaptive when it results in autoimmunity).
The innate immune system is an evolutionarily older defense strategy, and is the dominant immune system found in plants, fungi, insects, and primitive multicellular organisms. Natural killer cells, or NK cells, are a component of the innate immune system that does not directly attack invading microbes. Rather, NK cells destroy compromised host cells, such as tumor cells or virus-infected cells, recognizing such cells by a condition known as missing self..
This process of acquired immunity is the basis of vaccination. Like the innate system, the adaptive system includes both humoral immunity components and cell-mediated immunity components. Unlike the innate immune system, the adaptive immune system is highly specific to a specific pathogen. The acquired response is called adaptive because it prepares the body's immune system for future challenges (though it can actually also be maladaptive when it results in autoimmunity).
Defense Cells in the Blood: The Leukocytes. Fundamental Statements for this Learning Object: 1. The complete blood count (CBC) is a laboratory test that, among other things, detemines the total number of both leukocytes and erythrocytes per ml of blood. 2. In general, an elevated WBC count (leukocytosis) is seen in infection, inflammation, leukemia, and parasitic infestations. b. Monocytes differentiate into macrophages (def) and dendritic cells (def) when they leave the blood and enter the tissue. Macrophages and dendritic cells are very important in phagocytosis and serve as antigen-presenting cells (def) in the adaptive immune responses (see below).
The adaptive system response destroys invading pathogens and any toxic molecules they produce. Sometimes the adaptive system is unable to distinguish foreign molecules, the effects of this may be hayfever, asthma or any other allergies. Antigens are any substances that elicit the adaptive immune response. The cells that carry out the adaptive immune response are white blood cells known as lymphocytes. The acquired response is called adaptive because it prepares the body's immune system for future challenges (though it can actually also be maladaptive when it results in autoimmunity).