In Beagles. Well it kind of depends how old the dog is and where (what state) your in. my beagle cost around $600-$800 maybe but puppies are worth much more. Im sure if you adopt you can … get a cheaper and better deal. 3 people found this useful. Answered.
1 On average, a pocket beagle can cost anywhere from $250 to as much as $1,200. 2  A show-quality beagle that is in good health will tend to be near the higher price region, while your lower priced dogs are often found in dog pounds. When a pocket beagle barks, it sounds like the howl of a dog that is on the hunt. 1 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Beagles usually cost anywhere from $200-$600. They are on the lower spectrum for puppy cost. Just remember though that a 200 dollar puppy quickly turns into a 1500 dollar puppy. Through vet costs, licensing, food and toys, the price of a puppy quickly escalates. Do not forget obedience classes, they are essential for building a bond between you and your dog
However, execute fair amount of caution while dealing with online breeders. How Much do Beagle Puppies Cost. Cost of beagle puppies is somewhere in the range of $300 - $700. However, at times you may get puppies for as little as $40, while other times the cost may shoot up to $900. The cost primarily depends upon the establishment from where you choose to buy beagles. Private breeders usually charge very high for puppies, whereas prices at adoption centers are lesser in comparison.
Certain elements may classify the dog as having faults. In some cases, these faults are merely aesthetics and do not affect the health of the dog. When this happens, the price of the Beagle will be much lower than that of a show quality Beagle, anywhere from $200 to $500 less. If you are looking for a pet and do not mind some faulty coloring (or other non-health related issue), this may be a choice for you. There is that notion that a Beagle puppy (or any other breed for that matter) “must be” 2 months old when purchased. Therefore, an unsold pup that is 9, 10, or even 11 weeks old will most likely be sold for much less money than his younger counterpart.
Timing is critical in regard to the price of a Beagle puppy. There is a very small window of time in which pricing can be top dollar. Top, reputable breeders may take deposits on litters not even born yet, however once the pups reach the age of 8 weeks old, the price usually takes a dramatic drop. There is that notion that a Beagle puppy (or any other breed for that matter) “must be” 2 months old when purchased. Therefore, an unsold pup that is 9, 10, or even 11 weeks old will most likely be sold for much less money than his younger counterpart.
It depends on your area, and the breeders in your area. In the suburbs of Chicago they can go up to $900, but I think that is a ridiculous price. Beagles are pretty common, you could go to Petfinder.com and find one that you could adopt from a shelter for a much lower cost like $800 or $500. Well it kind of depends how old the dog is and where (what state) your in. my beagle cost around $600-$800 maybe but puppies are worth much more. Im sure if you adopt you can … get a cheaper and better deal. 3 people found this useful. Answered.
1 On the other hand, the website Beagles-on-the-web.com states that their pocket beagle can cost around $300. 2  In fact, the site states that there are pounds and rescue centers that offer their beagles to as low as $150. 3  The pocket beagle is known to be sociable and cheerful at the same time. When a pocket beagle barks, it sounds like the howl of a dog that is on the hunt. 1  On average, a pocket beagle can cost anywhere from $250 to as much as $1,200.
How Much do Beagles Cost? It is possible that you are going to get a beagle completely free here, because many people are quite capable of leaving their purebred dogs in such shelters. If you are lucky, you may even find somebody in the neighborhood with a beagle willing to give that pet to you. This happens only when the owner does not have the resources nor the time to take care of his pet. It would be sensible to ask the owner for a price.
1 The website Puppyfind.com, a popular online classified list, has prices for a pocket beagle ranging anywhere from $400 to as high as $900. 2  On the other hand, the website Beagles-on-the-web.com states that their pocket beagle can cost around $300. When a pocket beagle barks, it sounds like the howl of a dog that is on the hunt. 1  On average, a pocket beagle can cost anywhere from $250 to as much as $1,200.