Instructions. Log on to your computer and click on the Start button. Choose Control Panel from the menu. Double-click on the Power icon in your computer's control panel. Look at the power settings for each option. Adjust the power options so that the computer's hard drive, monitor and system resources do not turn off.
To change your time zone, click on the Change time zone... button. This will open a dialog box where you can select your current time zone. Once you select your time zone, click on the OK button to close the dialog box. Then click on the OK button again to close the Date and Time control panel window. Your Windows 8 time zone will now have been changed and Windows will automatically update the time.
1 Type power options into your Start menu, choose Power Options in the list, then browse the available links on the left side of the page that opens to adjust the timeout for turning off your monitor or sleeping. 2  You can also choose to stop requiring a password when you resume. Thanks. This was the perfect answer!! 1  Type screensaver into your Start menu, choose Change Screen Saver, and then adjust the wait time in the box that appears.
Setting the date and time in Windows 8. 1  Press Windows key + D or navigate to the Windows desktop. 2  In the lower right-hand corner of the screen, click or tap the notification area where you see the time and date. 3  Select Change date and time settings... 4  in the bottom of the window that appears (shown below). 1 Select Change date and time settings... 2  in the bottom of the window that appears (shown below). 3  In the Date and Time window, under the Date and Time tab, click the Change date and time... 4  button. 5  Make your adjustments and click OK. 6  Click OK on the main Date and Time window to save the changes.
...or...Type power options into your Start menu, choose Power Options in the list, then browse the available links on the left side of the page that opens to adjust the timeout for turning off your monitor or sleeping. You can also choose to stop requiring a password when you resume. Thanks. This was the perfect answer!! 1  Type screensaver into your Start menu, choose Change Screen Saver, and then adjust the wait time in the box that appears.
To change your time zone from the Windows Start Screen you need to open up the Charms panel. To do so, you can hold down the Windows () and the C key on your keyboard to make the panel appear. You can also open up the Charm panel by moving your mouse to the upper right or lower right corners of your Start screen. Once you select your time zone, click on the OK button to close the dialog box. Then click on the OK button again to close the Date and Time control panel window. Your Windows 8 time zone will now have been changed and Windows will automatically update the time.
1 In the Date and Time window, under the Date and Time tab, click the Change date and time... 2  button. 3  Make your adjustments and click OK. 4  Click OK on the main Date and Time window to save the changes. 1 Select Change date and time settings... 2  in the bottom of the window that appears (shown below). 3  In the Date and Time window, under the Date and Time tab, click the Change date and time... 4  button. 5  Make your adjustments and click OK. 6
2. Open your Advanced Power Settings, expand Display and Console lock display off timeout. (see screenshots below) 3. Set how many minutes you want, and click/tap on OK. (see screenshots below) NOTE: The default time is 1 minute. Setting this to 0 (zero) minutes will set the display to never turn off from the lock screen. 
1 Click Date and time settings. 2  Make sure your Time zone is properly set if the computer is setting the wrong time. 3  To manually adjust the time turn off the Set time automatically option and then click the Change button. 1 Select Change date and time settings... 2  in the bottom of the window that appears (shown below). 3  In the Date and Time window, under the Date and Time tab, click the Change date and time... 4  button. 5  Make your adjustments and click OK. 6  Click OK on the main Date and Time window to save the changes.
Click Choose When To Turn Off The Display from the menu on the left side of the Power Options window to open the Edit Plan Settings window. Step 4. Use the drop-down menu to the right of Put the computer to sleep to adjust the length of time before the computer goes to sleep. Step 5. 