Colloquially, the doldrums are a state of inactivity, mild depression, listlessness or stagnation. The word is derived from dold (an archaic term meaning stupid) and-rum(s) , a noun suffix found in such words as  tantrum . The doldrums are notably described in Samuel Taylor Coleridge 's The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, in Laura Hillenbrand's Unbroken, and in Patrick O'Brian 's Desolation Island.
Origin. The Doldrums is the region of calm winds, centered slightly north of the equator and between the two belts of trade winds, which meet there and neutralize each other. It is widely assumed that the phrase 'in the doldrums' is derived from the name of this region. Actually, it's the other way about. In the 19th century, 'doldrum' was a word meaning 'dullard; a dull or sluggish fellow' and this probably derived from 'dol', meaning 'dull' with its form taken from 'tantrum'. From the bluff head where I watch'd to-day, I saw her in the doldrums; for the wind Was light and baffling. [Note: baffling winds are those which are shifting and variable, making progress under sail impossible.]. The 'equatorial doldrums' is another of these calm places.
More. To most people the doldrums refers to a state or period of stagnation or depression, but to sailors it is an equatorial region of the Atlantic Ocean with calms, sudden storms, and light unpredictable winds. For sailing ships, being becalmed in the doldrums was a serious occupational hazard. 1 On the equator there is little wind, mariners called this region the doldrums (after an old English word meaning dull) because they feared being stranded there. 2  The trade winds from both hemispheres converge towards the doldrums and a zone of low pressure, the equatorial trough, that girdles the earth.
Definition of DOLDRUM. 1. doldrums plural a: a spell of listlessness or despondency: blues b: a state of bafflement: quandary. 2. archaic: a sluggish or slow-witted person. 3. doldrums plural a: a region over the ocean near the equator abounding in calms, squalls, and light baffling winds b: the calms met with in that region. 4. 
1 doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums. More on doldrums from Infoplease: 1  doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums.
1 equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums. 2  variable: meaning and definitions-variable: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  trade winds-trade winds trade winds, movement of air toward the equator, from the NE in the Northern Hemisphere ... More on doldrums from Infoplease: 1  doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums.
1 The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 2  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums. 3  variable: meaning and definitions-variable: Definition and Pronunciation. More on doldrums from Infoplease: 1  doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums.
1 Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 2  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 3  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums. 4  variable: meaning and definitions-variable: Definition and Pronunciation. More on doldrums from Infoplease: 1  doldrums: meaning and definitions-doldrums: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Doldrums-Doldrums (The). 3  The name given to that region of the ocean near the equator noted for calms, ... 4  equatorial belt of calms-equatorial belt of calms: equatorial belt of calms: see doldrums.
The doldrums is a colloquial expression derived from historical maritime usage, in which it refers to those parts of the Atlantic Ocean and the Pacific Ocean affected by the Intertropical Convergence Zone, a low-pressure area around the equator where the prevailing winds are calm. The doldrums are notably described in Samuel Taylor Coleridge 's The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, in Laura Hillenbrand's Unbroken, and in Patrick O'Brian 's Desolation Island.