Menstruation. The endometrium starts off as a thickened lining, sometimes measuring up to 15 mm in thickness. Menstruation occurs during the first week of the menstrual cycle. As the endometrium is expelled, it may vary in thickness and may have an irregular appearance on ultrasound. The endometrium is the tissue to which a fertilized egg, or blastocycst, attaches for the duration of a pregnancy. The endometrial size varies throughout the menstrual cycle, but should be less than 8 mm in post-menopausal women.
However, in menstruating women, it's not abnormal for the thickness to be up to 13mm during the proliferative stage of the cycle.......so the signficance of your endometrial stripe REALLY depends on your age/whether you're menopausal or not, etc. Throughout this time possible reasons and additional tests have shown changing facts. There was an ovarian cyst, then non obstructing calculus in the uterer & one kidney, next showed two kidney stones first non obstructing, then partially in the left uereter, and one in the right kidney.
A normal uterus is about the size of a woman's fist. Measurements would be about 8 x 6 x 4 cm and weighing about 100-200 grams (4-7 ounces I believe). Normal thickness for the endometrial lining is about 8-13 mm, depending on where you are in your cycle. 
The appearance, as well as the thickness of the endometrium, will depend on whether the patient is of reproductive age or post-menopausal and, if of reproductive age, at what point in the menstrual cycle they are examined. The endometrium should be measured in the long axis or sagittal plane. The measurement is of the thickest echogenic area from one basal endometrial interface across the endometrial canal to the other basal surface. Endometrial thickness is a commonly measured parameter on routine gynaecological ultrasound and MR imaging.
The normal endometrium changes in appearance as well as in thickness throughout the menstrual cycle: 1  in the menstrual and early proliferative phase it is a thin, brightly echogenic stripe comprising of the basal layer (Figure 1). Endometrial thickness is a commonly measured parameter on routine gynaecological ultrasound and MR imaging.
Well.......endometrial stripe is basically the thickness of the inner lining (endometrium) of your uterus. Age/menopausal state plays a factor in determining whether the thickness is something to be concerned about/further investigated. Throughout this time possible reasons and additional tests have shown changing facts. There was an ovarian cyst, then non obstructing calculus in the uterer & one kidney, next showed two kidney stones first non obstructing, then partially in the left uereter, and one in the right kidney.
Helo.it is normal when my endometrial stripe has a thickness of 1.5 cm..im 26 years old. 2. Get help from a doctor now ›. Can be: normally we don't measure the endometrial stripe in young women in their 20's as it will vary depending on when you are in the menstrual cycle. Normal: That is a completely normal ultrasound report for your age. The uterine lining (endometrial stripe) is minimally thickened and the small cysts are immature eggs that will potentially mature and ovulate in the future.
A thickened endometrial stripe may indicate hyperplasia, an overgrowth of the lining of the uterus beyond the normal thickness. This is usually due to hormonal imbalance between estrogen and progesterone--that is, too much estrogen and not enough progesterone. Endometrial Cancer. Though a thickened endometrial stripe is seen with endometrial cancer, it is not by itself indicative of cancer. A stripe greater than 5 millimeters is suggestive of hyperplasia, and it is the evaluation of the hyperplasia that will indicate whether cancer is a possibility.
Save. The inner lining of the uterus is called the endometrium. The endometrium is the tissue to which a fertilized egg, or blastocycst, attaches for the duration of a pregnancy. The endometrial size varies throughout the menstrual cycle, but should be less than 8 mm in post-menopausal women.