NOUN: a mammal having hooves. Literally, ungulate refers to any animal with hooves-a hoof being an enlarged toenail (see below). However, in practice, the use of the name ungulate has been inconsistent. Modern ungulates have taken this to the extreme: the metapodials (the bones between the wrist/ankle and the digits) are often as long as the other parts of the legs. Raising the heel and digits off of the ground also increases the number of joints which move the legs forward-this increases the rate of stride.
ungulate. n. 1. (Zoology) any of a large group of mammals all of which have hooves: divided into odd-toed ungulates (perissodactyls) and even-toed ungulates (artiodactyls). odd-toed ungulate, perissodactyl, perissodactyl mammal-placental mammals having hooves with an odd number of toes on each foot. artiodactyl, artiodactyl mammal, even-toed ungulate-placental mammal having hooves with an even number of functional
• UNGULATE (noun). The noun UNGULATE has 1 sense: 1. any of a number of mammals with hooves that are superficially similar but not necessarily closely related taxonomically. Familiarity information: UNGULATE used as a noun is very rare.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The even-toed ungulates (order Artiodactyla) are ungulates (hoofed animals) whose weight is borne approximately equally by the third and fourth toes, rather than mostly or entirely by the third as in odd-toed ungulates (perissodactyls), such as horses. Of the roughly 220 artiodactyl species, many are of great dietary, economic, and cultural importance to humans. A further distinguishing feature of the group is the shape of the astragalus (talus), a bone in the ankle joint, which has a double-pulley structure. This gives the foot greater flexibility.
In ungulates, the tough unguis encircles the tip of the digit as a cylinder, enclosing the subunguis within in. Since the unguis is harder than the subunguis, it does not wear down as quickly, resulting in a firm (sometimes sharp) leading edge to the hoof. Modern ungulates have taken this to the extreme: the metapodials (the bones between the wrist/ankle and the digits) are often as long as the other parts of the legs. Raising the heel and digits off of the ground also increases the number of joints which move the legs forward-this increases the rate of stride.
The ancestors of the even-toed ungulates were omnivores that preferred plant material; now, even-toed ungulates are generally herbivorous, although species in the suborder Suina are, like their primitive ancestors, omnivores. Of the roughly 220 artiodactyl species, many are of great dietary, economic, and cultural importance to humans. A further distinguishing feature of the group is the shape of the astragalus (talus), a bone in the ankle joint, which has a double-pulley structure. This gives the foot greater flexibility.
ungulate. n. 1. (Zoology) any of a large group of mammals all of which have hooves: divided into odd-toed ungulates (perissodactyls) and even-toed ungulates (artiodactyls). Noun. 1. ungulate-any of a number of mammals with hooves that are superficially similar but not necessarily closely related taxonomically. hoofed mammal. eutherian, eutherian mammal, placental, placental mammal-mammals having a placenta; all mammals except monotremes and marsupials
The hoof is the tip of a toe of an ungulate mammal, strengthened by a thick horny (keratin) covering. The hoof consists of a hard or rubbery sole, and a hard wall formed by a thick nail rolled around the tip of the toe. The weight of the animal is normally borne by both the sole and the edge of the hoof wall. The fusion of the radius and ulna prevents an ungulate from rotating its forelimb. Since this skeletal structure has no specific function in ungulates, it is considered to be a homologous characteristic that ungulates share with other mammals.
Ungulates (pronounced /ˈʌŋɡjʉleɪts/) are any members of a diverse clade of primarily large mammals that includes odd-toed ungulates such as horses and rhinoceroses, and even-toed ungulates such as cattle, pigs, giraffes, camels, deer, and hippopotami. The fusion of the radius and ulna prevents an ungulate from rotating its forelimb. Since this skeletal structure has no specific function in ungulates, it is considered to be a homologous characteristic that ungulates share with other mammals.