Recall that last year, REITS were permitted to pay 90% of their dividnds in stock. Some time ago I sold all of our AKR in our E*Trade account. E*Trade rather than paying cash for any fractional shares in the stock-dividend payment just listed the fractional shares (0.3725 sh)along with the whole shares. But when I sold all, all the shares sold except the fractional shares. I tried to sell the fractional shares, but E*Trade wouldn't do it
Best Answer: I do all my transactions thru Sharebuilder-I have bought and sold fractional shares many times-Sb has a button you can click that says SELL ALL SHARES - it's not a big deal-mutual funds and ETF's probably trade in fractionals all the time. Source(s): Zarg222 · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Fractional shares can be created in a situation where a company has a 3-for-2 stock split. Suppose you have three shares of XYZ Corp. and XYZ has a 3-for-2 stock split. DEFINITION of 'Fractional Share'. A share of equity that is less than one full share. Fractional shares usually come about from stock splits, dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs) and similar corporate actions. Normally, fractional shares cannot be acquired from the marke
Selling Fractional Shares. When you sell all of the shares you own of a stock, you are paid the market price for each whole share plus a proportional amount for any fractional share. Let’s say you own 125.7 shares of a stock and sell at a market price of $40 per share. You get $40 per share for the 125 whole shares plus 0.7 times $40 for the fractional share, or $28. Your total sale proceeds are therefore $5,028. 
In business, fractional ownership is a percentage share of an expensive asset. Shares are sold to individual owners. Typically, a company manages the asset on behalf of the owners, who pay monthly/annual fees for the management plus variable (e.g., per-hour, per-day) use fees. 
In this case, you should get an extra 1.5 shares, which would be 4.5 shares total. Normally, you can't buy half a share in the stock market, but in this case, you could end up with a fractional share. Most companies tend to round up to the nearest whole number of shares when fractional shares occur. In the above example, XYZ Corp. could opt to round up the 0.5 share to leave you with a full five shares. DEFINITION of 'Fractional Share'. A share of equity that is less than one full share. Fractional shares usually come about from stock splits, dividend reinvestment plans (DRIPs) and similar corporate actions. Normally, fractional shares cannot be acquired from the market
To sell your fractional shares, round down to the next whole number. So if you had 100.45 shares of XYZ, just type in 100 shares and the .45 will also get sold, on the condition that you only have 100.45 shares. To sell fractional shares you have to be closing down your entire position in a stock at that time. For example, if you have 500.45 shares, and you type in 100 for shares to sell, you will not sell the fractional shares, in that case, for the fractional shares to be sold you would need to enter 500 in the sell amount. mcc. Posted by mcc on January 26, 2009 (11:10PM).
The smallest trade you can make on a stock exchange is one share. Because exchange-traded funds trade as stock, you might find the idea of fractional ETF shares irrelevant. Yet you can accumulate fractional shares in an ETF, even if you can only buy and sell whole shares. Your broker can accomplish this feat by allocating partial shares to your account.