The most common type of beer in Denmark is pale lager, simply known as Pilsner in Danish. For instance: Carlsberg Pilsner (often called Hof in Denmark), Groen Grøn, Tuborg Royal. pilsner Beer in Denmark is dominated by Carlsberg and Tuborg. Since Tuborg was acquired by Carlsberg in 1970 Carlsberg has held a near-monopoly. A number of regional breweries, however, managed to survive, and most of them merged into Royal Unibrew in 2005. Also in recent years a large number of microbreweries have appeared.
The most common type of beer in Denmark is pale lager, simply known as Pilsner in Danish. For instance: Carlsberg Pilsner (often called Hof in Denmark), Groen Grøn, Tuborg Royal. Pilsner these pilsners have a moderate alcohol strength of,46 (% by). volume Beer in Denmark is dominated by Carlsberg and Tuborg. Since Tuborg was acquired by Carlsberg in 1970 Carlsberg has held a near-monopoly. A number of regional breweries, however, managed to survive, and most of them merged into Royal Unibrew in 2005. Also in recent years a large number of microbreweries have appeared.
The company's flagship brand is Carlsberg Beer (named after Jacobsen's son Carl) but it also brews Tuborg, Kronenbourg, Somersby cider, Russia's best selling beer Baltika, Belgian Grimbergen abbey beers and more than 500 local beers. Brands under Calrsberg Malaysia include Carlsberg Green Label, Carlsberg Gold, Carlsberg Special Brew, Kronenbourg 1664, Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc, Asahi Super Dry, Somersby Apple Cider, SKOL beer, SKOL Super beer, Danish Royal Stout, Corona Extra, Jolly Shandy Lemon and as well as non-alcoholic Nutrimalt drink.
Probably the best beer in the world, and the flagship brand in Carlsberg Group's portfolio. A regular in millions of bars across 140 countries worldwide, it is a truly international beer brand. History The very first Carlsberg beers were brewed by Carlsberg's founder J.C. Jacobsen in 1847. In 1868, Carlsberg began exporting to Scotland. In 1869 samples were sent to Rangoon, Singapore, Calcutta and Hong Kong. Today, Carlsberg is a regular in bars all around the world. Logo. In 1904, the Carlsberg logo was created in Art Nouveau-style and has been used nearly unmodified ever since.
Brewer: Carlsberg International A/S. Alcohol Content (ABV): 5.0%. Carlsberg beer is an appealing international premium 5% abv lager with a clean, crisp, full bodied and distinctively smooth taste. I'm a Pale Lager brewed in Denmark. Carlsberg beer is an appealing international premium 5% abv lager with a clean, crisp, full bodied and distinctively smooth taste.
Carlsberg is the flagship beer brand in Carlsberg Group's portfolio of more than 500 brands. It is a 5% abv pilsner beer with a global distribution to 140 markets. It is also known as Carlsberg Lager, Carlsberg Beer and Carlsberg Pilsner. Brands under Calrsberg Malaysia include Carlsberg Green Label, Carlsberg Gold, Carlsberg Special Brew, Kronenbourg 1664, Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc, Asahi Super Dry, Somersby Apple Cider, SKOL beer, SKOL Super beer, Danish Royal Stout, Corona Extra, Jolly Shandy Lemon and as well as non-alcoholic Nutrimalt drink.
Carlsberg was founded by J. C. Jacobsen, a philanthropist and avid art collector. With his fortune he amassed an impressive art collection which is now housed in the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek in central Copenhagen. The first brew was finished on 10 November 1847, and export of Carlsberg beer and glass began in 1868. Brands under Calrsberg Malaysia include Carlsberg Green Label, Carlsberg Gold, Carlsberg Special Brew, Kronenbourg 1664, Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc, Asahi Super Dry, Somersby Apple Cider, SKOL beer, SKOL Super beer, Danish Royal Stout, Corona Extra, Jolly Shandy Lemon and as well as non-alcoholic Nutrimalt drink.