Typical Bengal Cat Sizes. The Bengal, is an average to large-sized, spotted cat breed, normally weighing from 6 to 15 pounds. Male cats are generally larger than females, with an average size of 10 to 15 pounds, while the average size for a female is 7 to 10 pounds. However, a given Bengal's size can depend on which cat was bred with the Asian Leopard cat. Other breeds that were used in the Bengal breeding program include: 1  Ocicats-Average weight 13 pounds. 2  Egyptian Mau-Average weight 12 pounds. 3  Abyssinians-Average weight 10 pounds. 4  Bombays-Average weight
This is not the case. Bengals are like any other domestic cat. The average size for a female Bengal is around 8-10 lbs and a male can average somewhere between 12-16 lbs. 
Size. Bengal cats are usually quite large: males weigh on average between 10 – 15 lbs (4.5 – 6.8kg) and females 8 – 12 lbs (3.6 – 5.4 kg). Of course you will get some even bigger than that and a few who are smaller too, so don’t be concerned if your Bengal is outside of those averages. The Bengal cat is named after the Latin name for the Asian Leopard Cat – Prionailurus bengalensis – and not the very distantly-related Bengal tiger. Bengals are no more aggressive than your average domestic kitty! As for any cat, they must be well socialised from young kitten-hood which a reputable breeder will do.
Hi there... Bengal cats will vary in size depending on the pedigree background. Males will average between 12-15 pounds, females 8-12 pounds. Length can be up to 22 or greater, but again will vary. However, these estimates are the general sizes/weight/length. 
the bengal cat is a wildcat hybrid the leopard cat the wild cat parent is about the size of a domestic cat so the bengal cat does not vary in size across the types of bengal cat i e f1 to f6 first filial to 6th filial the bengal cat is considered a large boned cat legacy of the cat gloria stephens gloria says that males weigh from ten to eighteen pounds while females are a bit smaller dr fogle encyclopedia of the cat says that the bengal cat weighs between 5 5 to 10 kg or 12 22 lbs 
Also unique to the Bengal’s appearance: the glitter-like sheen that graces its fur coat, which has a smooth silky feel. Contrary to popular belief, Bengal cats are not typically large in size, often ranging from seven to 12 pounds. The average life expectancy of a Bengal cat is 12 to 16 years in age. Consult with a veterinarian if you have any questions about Bengal cat health or are interested in learning if this cat is the right breed to bring home to you and your family. 
Appearance. Size: With the breed's big-boned, muscular body, it's not uncommon for an adult male Bengal cat to reach 18 pounds, though Bengal breeders say the normal range is 9 to 12 pounds. Adult females normally weigh between 7 and 10 pounds. Coat: The coat of a Bengal is either marbled or spotted. 
The size of the Asian Leopard cat helped to dictate the Bengal's final size. However, a given Bengal's size can depend on which cat was bred with the Asian Leopard cat. Other breeds that were used in the Bengal breeding program include: 1  Ocicats-Average weight 13 pounds. 2  Egyptian Mau-Average weight 12 pounds. 3  Abyssinians-Average weight 10 pounds. 4  Bombays-Average weight 10 pounds
Average Size and Weight of Bengal Cat. Bengal cats show quite a variety in their size and weight.They have muscular bodies with large belly and smart leopard look.Average weight for an adult male Bengal cat ranged from 12-16 lbs or 4.5-7.2 kg whereas for a female weight ranges from 10-14 lbs or 4.5-6.3 kg. 