385 EXPERIMENT 24 Amplification of a DNA Fragment Using Polymerase Chain Reaction Theory Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a techniquethat allows the amplification of a specific fragmentof double-stranded DNA in a matter of hours. Any biological sample recovered from a crime scenethat contains DNA (a single hair, a drop of blood,skin cell, saliva, etc.) can be subjected to PCR.Primers complementary to repetitive DNA se-quences found throughout the human genome arechange a single base pair in the gene of interest(Fig. 24-4 d).
Promega Notes Magazine Number 62, 1997, p. 15 Cloning Blunt-End DNA Fragments Into the pGEM ® -T Vector Systems By Gary Kobs Promega Corporation Blunt-end DNA fragments can be ligated into Promega's T-Vectors if they are first tailed using dATP and Taq DNA Polymerase (a) (1). Figure 2. Analysis of recombinants obtained after cloning of an A-tailed PCR fragment into the pGEM ® -T Easy Vector. A 1,200bp fragment was generated by amplification with Pfu DNA polymerase. This fragment was tailed using the alternative procedure described in Figure 1B.
T. aquaticus is a bacterium that lives in hot springs and hydrothermal vents, and Taq polymerase was identified as an enzyme able to withstand the protein-denaturing conditions (high temperature) required during PCR. Therefore it replaced the DNA polymerase from E. coli originally used in PCR. He was familiar with the use of DNA oligonucleotides as probes for binding to target DNA strands, as well as their use as primers for DNA sequencing and cDNA synthesis. In 1983, he began using two primers, one to hybridize to each strand of a target DNA, and adding DNA polymerase to the reaction.
Taq makes DNA products that have A (adenine) overhangs at their 3' ends. This may be useful in TA cloning, whereby a cloning vector (such as a plasmid) that has a T (thymine) 3' overhang is used, which complements with the A overhang of the PCR product, thus enabling ligation of the PCR product into the plasmid vector. He was familiar with the use of DNA oligonucleotides as probes for binding to target DNA strands, as well as their use as primers for DNA sequencing and cDNA synthesis. In 1983, he began using two primers, one to hybridize to each strand of a target DNA, and adding DNA polymerase to the reaction.
Some thermostable DNA polymerases have been isolated from other thermophilic bacteria and archaea, such as Pfu DNA polymerase, possessing a proofreading activity, and are being used instead of (or in combination with) Taq for high-fidelity amplification. He was familiar with the use of DNA oligonucleotides as probes for binding to target DNA strands, as well as their use as primers for DNA sequencing and cDNA synthesis. In 1983, he began using two primers, one to hybridize to each strand of a target DNA, and adding DNA polymerase to the reaction.
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 1 Miniprimer PCR: uses a thermostable polymerase (S-Tbr) that can extend from short primers (smalligos) as short as 9 or 10 nucleotides. 2  This method permits PCR targeting to smaller primer binding regions, and is used to amplify conserved DNA sequences, such as the 16S (or eukaryotic 18S) rRNA gene.
1 The extension time depends both on the DNA polymerase used and on the length of the DNA fragment to amplify. 2  As a rule-of-thumb, at its optimum temperature, the DNA polymerase polymerizes a thousand bases per minute. 1 Miniprimer PCR: uses a thermostable polymerase (S-Tbr) that can extend from short primers (smalligos) as short as 9 or 10 nucleotides. 2  This method permits PCR targeting to smaller primer binding regions, and is used to amplify conserved DNA sequences, such as the 16S (or eukaryotic 18S) rRNA gene.
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. During this process, DNA polymerase “reads” the existing DNA strands to create two new strands that match the existing ones.
PCR can also be used toof different applications. One popular applicationfor PCR is its use in the introduction of specific mu-tations in the product DNA that is amplified fromthe template DNA. For example, suppose youwanted to produce a PCR product that had restriction-enzyme recognition sequences at eitherend. Any biological sample recovered from a crime scenethat contains DNA (a single hair, a drop of blood,skin cell, saliva, etc.) can be subjected to PCR.Primers complementary to repetitive DNA se-quences found throughout the human genome arechange a single base pair in the gene of interest(Fig. 24-4 d).
Thermostable DNA polymerases that have a proofreading function, such as Pfu and Tli (a) ® -T Vectors if they are first tailed with dATP using Taq DNA Polymerase (1). This A-tailing protocol can also be used to subclone DNA fragments generated by restriction enzymes which produce blunt ends (1). Figure 2. Analysis of recombinants obtained after cloning of an A-tailed PCR fragment into the pGEM ® -T Easy Vector. A 1,200bp fragment was generated by amplification with Pfu DNA polymerase. This fragment was tailed using the alternative procedure described in Figure 1B.