Both types of dump files have the file extension .dmp. Even when your system is configured to create an kernel, complete, or automatic memory dump, you’ll get both a minidump and a larger MEMORY.DMP file. Tools like Nirsoft’s BlueScreenView can display the information contained in these minidmp files. When Windows blue-screens, it creates memory dump files — also known as crash dumps. This is what Windows 8’s BSOD is talking about when it says its “just collecting some error info.”. These files contain a copy of the computer’s memory at the time of the crash.
How to Fix a Blue Screen Memory Dump. A blue screen memory dump is an error screen that comes up just before the system gets rebooted, because the operating system is no longer able to function properly due to a variety of reasons, and the content of the RAM is dumped on to a data file. 
If you press the Yes button on the request message that appears, then Windows will upload the dump files to Microsoft's server. Dump files are useful 'but' they do have a nasty habit of taking up a lot of disk space, therefore it is beneficial to remove the files to get back the space they take up. I must do a disk cleanup at least once a day or the system runs horribly slow, and most of the time the program is running, System error memory dump files is displayed as what the program is working on. 6 people found this helpful.
Hi there, I'm using Windows 8.1. I just ran a Disk Cleanup for Drive C & noticed there is about 1.25GB space next to System error memory dump files. BY default, the Checkox was unchecked.
VE. VE. I upgraded from Vista to Windows 7 in both operating systems When I used disk cleanup thats when I get message system error memory dump files. It shows in bottom of box while its doing a disk cleanup. I deleted files. And everytime I do disk cleanup I get same error message. I have an 80GB HD w/2GB Ram. The HD is about 1/2 Free Space. After opening a windows session for several hours, System Error Memory Dump Files occupy more than 35GB HD space creating the Low Disc Space warning.
Best Answer: System Error Memory Dump Files = Contain dump files created by Windows because of a Stop error. If you've resolved the problem that caused the Stop error or do not plan to send the dump file to Microsoft or another support technician, you can delete the dump files. 
2. In the Drives list, click the hard disk drive that you want to clean up, and then click OK. 3. In the Disk Cleanup dialog box, on the Disk Cleanup tab, select the check boxes for the file types that you want to delete, and then click OK. 4. In the message that appears, click Delete files. I have an 80GB HD w/2GB Ram. The HD is about 1/2 Free Space. After opening a windows session for several hours, System Error Memory Dump Files occupy more than 35GB HD space creating the Low Disc Space warning.
[Read Article]. You can delete these .dmp files to free up space, which is a good idea because they may be very large in size — if your computer has blue-screened, you may have a MEMORY.DMP file of 800 MB or more taking up space on your system drive. Windows helps you automatically delete these files. When Windows blue-screens, it creates memory dump files — also known as crash dumps. This is what Windows 8’s BSOD is talking about when it says its “just collecting some error info.”. These files contain a copy of the computer’s memory at the time of the crash.