Leucite Nepheline Tephrite. Leucite is a feldspathoid mineral that can be found only in igneous rocks. The luster of the mineral is vitreous to dull and its name derives from the Greek word for white, its most typical color. Leucite is relatively rare, but some of the most notable occurrences are found in Uganda, Rome, and Wyoming. Leucite-tephrite is a type of igneous rock in which olivine is absent and plagioclase feldspar is present. When nepheline, the most common feldspathoid mineral in the world, also occurs in the rock, the basalt is described as a leucite nepheline tephrite. Similar to leucite, nepheline is sometimes utilized for commercial purposes, primarily as a substitute for feldspar in the production of ceramic and glass items
THE FELDSPATHOID GROUP. The feldspathoids are not a typical mineral group like other mineral groups that are related by structure and chemistry. Their relation to each other is due primarily to their relationship to the feldspar group of minerals. The sodalite group is a group within a group. It is composed of minerals with a similar isometric structure and related chemistry. It is named for its most common member, sodalite.
The lower density common to the minerals of this group is evidence of the openess of their structure. The sodalite group is a group within a group. It is composed of minerals with a similar isometric structure and related chemistry. It is named for its most common member, sodalite.
Feldspathoid group. Group of minerals that are similar to those of the feldspar group. The difference is that the feldspathoids lack the amount of silica to fully make them into feldspars during the formation process. They, as feldspars, are aluminum silicates of potassium, sodium, and/or calcium. The feldspathoid group is in the tectosilicates subdivision of the silicates
The feldspathoids are a group of tectosilicate minerals which resemble feldspars but have a different structure and much lower silica content. They occur in rare and unusual types of igneous rocks, and are not found in rocks containing primary quartz. Foid, contraction of the term feldspathoid, is applied to any igneous rock containing up to 60% modal feldspathoid minerals. 
Class: Silicates Subclass: Tectosilicates Group: Sodalite and feldspathoid groups. Uses: mineral specimens and ornamental stone Specimens Click to view larger image Sodalite Crystal in Matrix Sodalite is a scarce mineral that can be rock forming. Sodalite is named in reference to its sodium content. It is used for carvings and some jewelry pieces. Its light to dark pure blue color is well known in the semi-precious stone trade. Sodalite is a member of the feldspathoid group of minerals.
Feldspathoid group. The feldspathoids are not a typical mineral group like other mineral groups that are related by structure and chemistry. Their relation to each other is due primarily to their relationship to the feldspar group of minerals. Feldspathoids are low silica igneous minerals that would have formed feldspars if only more silica (SiO2) were present in the original magma. The aluminum to silicon ratio is nearly 1:1 in most of the feldspathoids but is closer to 1:3 in most of the feldspars.
The lower density common to the minerals of this group is evidence of the openess of their structure. The sodalite group is a group within a group. It is composed of minerals with a similar isometric structure and related chemistry. It is named for its most common member, sodalite. Feldspathoids are low silica igneous minerals that would have formed feldspars if only more silica (SiO2) were present in the original magma. The aluminum to silicon ratio is nearly 1:1 in most of the feldspathoids but is closer to 1:3 in most of the feldspars.