As wonderful as the Doberman Pinscher is, there are health problems that occur in the breed. As with any breed of dog, hip dysplasia is a real threat and any dog's pedigree should be checked to see if it's parents are from sound stock.
Breeder Dayna C. Hewitt, owner of Desta Doberman in Gloucester, Va., sees the breed as a dog that is watchful over its human family, but far from the vicious dog depicted in the media. The ideal Doberman Pinscher should be inquisitive, bright, brave and faithful to its family and property, Hewitt says.
The original Beauceron had similar rust markings to the Doberman and like the modern American Doberman were available in colors such as black, red, blue, fawn, reddish black, and harlequin. In late 1960 the French standard for the Beauceron eliminated all but black-and-rust
Doberman Pinscher. The Doberman Pinscher was developed in Germany during the late 19th century, primarily as a guard dog. His exact ancestry is unknown, but he's believed to be a mixture of many dog breeds, including the Rottweiler, Black and Tan Terrier, and G
The Doberman Pinscher can be a great family dog as long as the dog is well socialized and from a good breeder who temperament tests all of his/her puppies. Positive Reinforcement Training techniques work really well in training this breed to be a loving, protective companion for the whole family.
These dogs easily could have been used in Dobermann’s early breeding projects. In 1933 the German Doberman Club interviewed a fellow breeder of Doberman's, Goswin Tischer, and Dobermann’s youngest son, Robert. The conclusion was that the original Dobermans were likely breed from the German Pinscher.
This is true of any dog breed, but it is especially important with a breed like the Doberman Pinscher that has an inborn instinct to be protective. The Doberman Pinscher Club of America administers a test to adult dogs called a Working Aptitude Certificate (WAC), says Hewitt.
Today's Doberman Pinscher is one of the most popular and respected members of the canine clan. Developed first as police dogs in 19th Century Germany, this breed continues to excel as a watchdog, guardian, and protector. In addition, the breed is now remarkable as a guide dog for the blind, military dog, and pet.