However, you do not need to use a ServiceController component when you create a service application. In fact, in most cases your ServiceController component should exist in a separate application from the Windows service application that defines your service. Microsoft Windows services, formerly known as NT services, enable you to create long-running executable applications that run in their own Windows sessions. These services can be automatically started when the computer boots, can be paused and restarted, and do not show any user interface.
(April 2007). An Application Service Provider (ASP) is a business providing computer-based services to customers over a network; such as access to a particular software application (such as customer relationship management) using a standard protocol (such as HTTP). ASPs may or may not use multitenancy in the deployment of software to clients; some ASPs offer an instance or license to each customer (for example using Virtualization), some deploy in a single instance multi-tenant access mode, now more frequently referred to as SaaS.
Web services (sometimes called application services) are services (usually including some combination of programming and data, but possibly including human resources as well) that are made available from a business's. for Web users or other Web-connected programs. 
The VAC will send your passport to the Visa Office and provide you with a tracking number so you can track where your passport is. The fee for the Passport delivery / e-Application service is $31.19. (Please note that it is not necessary to pay the VAC service charge in addition to this fee.). Passport delivery / e-Application Service: If you applied online with an e-App, or if you received a request from CIC to submit your passport to the Visa Office, you can use the VAC to securely send your passport.
Hide. If the form is online, draft your application offline first – in a word processing package like Word – and save it to your computer. This way you'll be able to run a spell check before you copy the information into the online system. It also means you'll have a back-up if there's a problem with the form. 1 photocopy or print out the finished form, so that you have a record of what you've written. 2  You'll need to be able to refer back to it at the interview stage. 3  take note of the closing date and send your application form to arrive in good time.
1 SearchCRM.com has information about the use of application service providers in customer relationship management. 2  Search400.com has hundreds of links related to application service providers. 1 SearchDomino.com has information about ASPs for Lotus Domino and Notes professionals. 2  SearchCRM.com has information about the use of application service providers in customer relationship management. 3
An application service provider (ASP) is a company that offers individuals or enterprises access over the Internet to applications and related services that would otherwise have to be located in their own personal or enterprise computers. 1 SearchDomino.com has information about ASPs for Lotus Domino and Notes professionals. 2  SearchCRM.com has information about the use of application service providers in customer relationship management. 3  Search400.com has hundreds of links related to application service providers.
application (Noun). The act of applying as a means; the employment of means to accomplish an end; specific use. If a right course. . . be taken with children, there will not be much need of the application of the common rewards and punishments. --John Locke. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: application (Noun). The act of applying or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the application of emollients to a diseased limb. application (Noun). The thing applied. He invented a new application by which blood might be stanched. --Johnson.