Athlete's foot is caused by a microscopic fungus that lives on dead tissue of the hair, toenails, and outer skin layers. There are at least four kinds of fungus that can cause athlete's foot. Signs and symptoms of athlete's foot vary from person to person. However, common symptoms include: 1  Peeling, cracking, and scaling of the feet. 2  Redness, blisters, or softening and breaking down of the skin. 3  Itching, burning, or both.
1 It usually occurs between the two smallest toes. 2  This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 3  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin. Signs and symptoms of athlete's foot vary from person to person. However, common symptoms include: 1  Peeling, cracking, and scaling of the feet. 2  Redness, blisters, or softening and breaking down of the skin. 3  Itching, burning, or both.
Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mild fungal skin diseases can look like a rash and are very common. Fungal diseases in the lungs are often similar to other illnesses such as the flu or tuberculosis. Some fungal diseases like fungal meningitis and bloodstream infections are less common than skin and lung infections but can be deadly. 1  Types of fungal diseases Read about different types of fungal diseases
Overview. Candida is a strain of fungus that can cause an infection in your skin, among other locations. In normal conditions, your skin may host small amounts of this fungus, but problems arise when it begins to multiply and creates an overgrowth. More than 150 species of candida exist, but the majority of infections are caused by a species called Candida albicans. The outlook for Candida infection is often very good. Normally, your skin acts as an effective barrier against infection, but any cuts or breakdown in the superficial layers of the skin may allow the fungus to cause infection. Candida becomes pathogenic (capable of causing disease) when conditions are favorable for it to multiply.
1 This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 2  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin. 3  As it develops, the skin may thicken and crack. Signs and symptoms of athlete's foot vary from person to person. However, common symptoms include: 1  Peeling, cracking, and scaling of the feet. 2  Redness, blisters, or softening and breaking down of the skin. 3  Itching, burning, or both.
Ringworm. Ringworm – Ringworm is a common skin infection that is caused by a fungus. It’s called “ringworm” because it can cause a circular rash (shaped like a ring) that is usually red and itchy. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk and Prevention. 3  Diagnosis and Testing.
An example of a common fungus is the yeast organism which causes thrush and diaper rash (diaper dermatitis). Fungi are also used for the development of antibiotics, antitoxins, and other drugs used to control various human diseases. 
Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Fungi live outdoors in soil and on plants and trees as well as on many indoor surfaces and on human skin. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Ringworm – Ringworm is a common skin infection that is caused by a fungus. It’s called “ringworm” because it can cause a circular rash (shaped like a ring) that is usually red and itchy. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk and Prevention. 3  Diagnosis and Testing.
Symptoms Symptoms of fungal skin infections. The symptoms and appearance of a fungal skin infection depend on the type of fungus that has caused it. They will also depend on which part of your body is affected. Fungal rashes are sometimes confused with other skin conditions, such as psoriasis and eczema. Around one in five people in the UK have athlete’s foot. It's caused by a fungus that grows in warm, damp areas of skin, such as between your toes. The fungal infection makes your skin itchy, flaky and red. It also causes white cracks to appear, especially between your toes and on the side of your foot. Occasionally it causes blisters