Typhus, epidemic: A severe acute disease with prolonged high fever up to 40° C (104° F), intractable headache, and a pink-to-purple raised rash, due to infection with a microorganism called Rickettsia prowazekii. The neurologic features gave the disease its name from the Greek word typhos, which means smoke, cloud, and stupor arising from fever. Epidemic typhus is also known as classic typhus, European typhus, jail fever, louse-borne typhus, ship fever.
epidemic typhus. n. A form of typhus characterized by high fever, mental and physical depression, and macular and papular eruptions; it is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii and transmitted by body lice. typhus. acute infectious diseases caused by Rickettsia which are usually transmitted from infected rats and other rodents to humans by lice, fleas, ticks and mites. Abyssinian tick typhus. see boutonneuse fever. canine typhus, canine tick typhus. see canine ehrlichiosis. epidemic typhus. see rickettsia prowazeki.
: any of various bacterial diseases caused by rickettsias: as a: a severe human febrile disease that is caused by one (Rickettsia prowazekii) transmitted especially by body lice and is marked by high fever, stupor alternating with delirium, intense headache, and a dark red rash b: murine typhus c: scrub typhus. Definition of TYPHUS for Kids. : a disease spread especially by body lice and in which there is high fever, delirium, severe headache, and a dark red rash.
Epidemic typhus (also called camp fever, jail fever, hospital fever, ship fever, famine fever, putrid fever, petechial fever, Epidemic louse-borne typhus, and louse-borne typhus) is a form of typhus so named because the disease often causes epidemics following wars and natural disasters. Symptoms include severe headache, a sustained high fever, cough, rash, severe muscle pain, chills, falling blood pressure, stupor, sensitivity to light, delirium and death.
The specific type of Rickettsia that causes the disease also varies, as does the specific insect that can pass the bacteria along. Epidemic typhus, which is sometimes called jail fever or louse-borne typhus, is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii, which is carried by body lice. When the lice feed on a human, they may simultaneously defecate. When the person scratches the bite, the feces (which carrys the bacteria) are scratched into the wound. flying squirrel typhus an acute infectious disease similar to epidemic typhus, occurring in the southeastern United States; it is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii and is transmitted by the fleas and lice of the flying squirrel. Kenya tick typhus boutonneuse fever.
How is epidemic typhus fever spread? Disease is spread by human body lice infected with the bacteria that cause epidemic typhus fever. The disease is most common during the winter, when conditions favor person-to-person spread of body lice. Human body lice become infected when they feed on the blood of a person with epidemic typhus fever. Infected lice then pass infectious feces when they feed.
Brill-Zinsser disease; epidemic typhus; murine typhus, typhus fever Infectious disease A rickettsiosis transmitted by a louse or a flea Clinical Fever, a transient rash, and hypotension caused by either R prowazekii –epidemic typhus, Brill disease–rare in US or R typhi Scrub typhus. flying squirrel typhus an acute infectious disease similar to epidemic typhus, occurring in the southeastern United States; it is caused by Rickettsia prowazekii and is transmitted by the fleas and lice of the flying squirrel. Kenya tick typhus boutonneuse fever.
Typhus. Epidemic typhus is a form of typhus so named because the disease often causes epidemics following wars and natural disasters. The causative organism is Rickettsia prowazekii, transmitted by the human body louse. Feeding on a human who carries the bacillus infects the louse. 