MOT (Class 4). £29.95. An MOT can be carried out up to one calendar month prior to the expiry date of your existing MOT certificate, whilst still preserving the anniversary of the expiry date. If you have your test carried out a month before the due date, your MOT is effectively valid for 13 months. Example: if your current certificate expires on 20th March, you can take the test between 21st February and 20th March and the new certificate will be valid until 20th March the following year.
Posts: 5,829. You can get it done anytime, but if you want it to run from the end date of your current MOT then it needs to be within 28 days (it may actually be a month) of the expiry. So, if your current one runs out on the 28th April you can get it done anytime in April and the new one will start on the 28th. 
Report Abuse. You can get a new MOT at any time even if it has ten months to run.If you go for one a month before the old one ends you can have an MOT that last for thirteen months if you have the present one to show them. Done it many times. · just now. Report Abuse. A calander month is the time you can get a mot done by if you go before you lose the days, but you do get a 13 month ticket, if it passes. Do not forget to tell them it is still has a vlid mot and leave the current mot paper in the car or pass to the examiner when taken the car in.
Something to bear in mind if you are buying a used car. A MOT test can be taken up to a month before the due date and if the old certificate, or registration document in the case of the first MOT, is presented at the test, the certificate will be issued from the due date rather than the earlier test date. 
You won’t do, by coming in during the month before the expiry date. For example, if your MOT expires on October 22nd, you can come in any time from September 23rd and next year’s expiry date will still be October 22nd. Take a look at last year’s MOT certificate and you will see the earliest day that the vehicle can be presented in order to preserve the anniversary date. The MOT test often strikes fear into the hearts of many, wondering what expense it will cause this year.
Doing this and then finding out the car has failed leaves them in a tricky position if the MOT expires that day and they are given a sheet of failure points to rectify before we can pass the car. What a lot of people don’t realise is that you don’t need to wait until the MOT due date to get the test done. Take a look at last year’s MOT certificate and you will see the earliest day that the vehicle can be presented in order to preserve the anniversary date. The MOT test often strikes fear into the hearts of many, wondering what expense it will cause this year.
MOT tests can be carried out on your car up to one month before its due date. If your MOT test is carried out a month early, it will effectively remain valid for 13 months. If you have your test carried out a month before the due date, your MOT is effectively valid for 13 months. Example: if your current certificate expires on 20th March, you can take the test between 21st February and 20th March and the new certificate will be valid until 20th March the following year.
If your car is presented for an early MoT and fails, your car still has a valid MoT and you won't be prosecuted for not having a valid MoT as they are valid until the expiry date. Don't forget though that if it fails on the early MOT,it's failed and you don't get until the later date as a lot of people seem to think. MY R32 BUILD THREAD. Winner of the 2015 Megameet 'The car people would most like to own' category. 1  Back to top.