Corals usually eat at night. So, when corals eat they consume plankton that are floating around them in the water by stinging them. Then, the coral stuffs the plankton i … nto the polyp's mouth. 9 people found this useful. 
Corals are animals, and they do need to eat. Thankfully, they are largely photosynthetic, so they derive a lot of food that they require directly from the strong lights that we put on our aquarium. The algae that lives in the tissue of photosynthetic corals produces the sugars and carbohydrates that corals need. 
While most of a corals diet is obtained from zooxanthellae, they can also 'fish' for food too. During feeding a coral polyp will extend its tentacles out from its body and wave them in the water current where they encounter small fish, plankton or other food particles. Anatomy of a polyp (Source: NOAA). Corals are invertebrate animals belonging to a large group of colourful and fascinating animals called Cnidaria. Other animals in this group that you may have seen in rock pools or on the beach include jelly fish and sea anemones.
Corals get their food from algae living in their tissues or by capturing and digesting prey. M ost reef-building corals have a unique partnership with tiny algae called zooxanthellae. The algae live within the coral polyps, using sunlight to make sugar for energy. This energy is transferred to the polyp, providing much needed nourishment. In turn, coral polyps provide the algae with carbon dioxide and a protective home. Corals also eat by catching tiny floating animals called zooplankton. At night, coral polyps come out of their skeletons to feed, stretching their long, stinging tentacles to capture critters that are floating by
Adam Schneider. Corals are stimulated to expand their polyps to feed by a number of influences. Temperature, the time of the day, oxygen content of the water, water movement, the presence of food or sediment are the influencing factors. Although some corals actively feed on available plankton during the daylight hours, a majority of corals open their polyps, extend their tentacles with their stinging nematocycts and actively feed during the night.
Share. To one extent or another, corals do require a certain amount of light in order to survive. Some corals, however, depend less on light than they do nutrients extracted from the water column for their nutrition. The uneaten food in the mix is guaranteed to increase your nitrate levels in a short period of time. Or you can fine tune the supplement to the requirements of your specific corals and target feed them with a turkey baster. Many corals will benefit from the food that you feed the fish and invertebrates in your tank. When meaty foods float by or land on corals, they will be consumed if the food is desired by the coral