The planet (which we know of) that is most similar to Earth is Mars. As you probably know, Mars is smaller, colder, and has less atmosphere. But it does seem to have some water (mostly ice) and on a really hot day can get to 80° Fahrenheit. When a planet lines up with the sun and Earth, and the planet is closer to the sun than Earth is, we call it a conjunction. If a planet lines up with the sun and Earth and the planet is farther from the sun than Earth, we call it opposition.
Synopsis. Ray Bradbury was an American fantasy and horror author who rejected being categorized as a science fiction author, claiming that his work was based on the fantastical and unreal. His best known novel is Fahrenheit 451, a dystopian study of future American society in which critical thought is outlawed. 
th Planet, will recognize the above seal, VA 243 (so named because it is number 243 in the collection of the Vorderasiatische Museum in Berlin). This seal is the centerpiece of Sitchin’s theory that the Sumerians had advanced astronomical knowledge of the planetary bodies in our solar system. It is a star, and thus denotes a star, a god, or a single planet. This isn’t my opinion, it’s the Sumero-Mesopotamian art convention. Let’s move on to some cylinder seal examples of star symbols. As noted above, the star was designed to signify a deity or literal star or planet.
So if a planet is tilted with respect to its orbit around the sun, it should have seasons. Here are the numbers that I was able to find this morning (as of September 1994) Venus — 23 degrees tilt, Earth — 23.5, Mars — 24, Jupiter — 3, Saturn — 27, Uranus — 98, Neptune — 29. When a planet lines up with the sun and Earth, and the planet is closer to the sun than Earth is, we call it a conjunction. If a planet lines up with the sun and Earth and the planet is farther from the sun than Earth, we call it opposition.
1 Uriel – A planet with extremely tall mountains, an allusion to the Archangel Uriel. 2  It is inhabited by creatures that resemble winged centaurs. 3  It is the third planet of the Star Malak (meaning 'angel' in Hebrew) in the spiral nebula Messier 101 , which would place it at roughly 25 million light-years from Earth. Aunt Beast is a character who takes care of Meg on the planet Ixchel after Meg is frozen by the Black Thing. Introduced in chapter ten, the character has four arms, no eyes, and numerous long, waving tentacles instead of fingers.
In short, he’s smart and thinks knowledge is pretty awesome. In every book in the Stink series, readers see him questioning, investigating, and discovering the world around him. As a result, teachers and parents love sharing Stink books with their own young explorers. 
NASA launched its New Horizons space probe 9 years ago, on January 19, 2006. In July 2015, it is expected to be at the closest position relative to Pluto, with observations expected to begin five months ahead of that, in February 2015. For the first time we'll have a good view of the former planet. When the Voyager 2 mission passed by Uranus and Neptune for the first time, their descriptions matched the ancient Sumerian descriptions, as discussed in Zecharia Sitchin's The 12th Planet. The first two titles, The Twelfth Planet and The Stairway to Heaven, will be published this month (August 2009), with the other titles spread over the following months. Chinese will be the 25th language into which Zecharia's books have been translated.
Dune is a 1965 epic science fiction novel by Frank Herbert. It won the Hugo Award in 1966, and the inaugural Nebula Award for Best Novel. It is the first installment of the Dune saga, and in 2003 was cited as the world's best-selling science fiction novel. Reviews of the novel have been largely positive, and Dune is considered by some critics to be the best science fiction book ever written. As of 2000 it had sold over 12 million copies worldwide, and it has been regularly cited as one of the world's best-selling science fiction novels.
If you possess a copy, it is now a Sitchin collectible.. The mass-market paperback (Avon Books) editions of Zecharia's Earth Chronicles series, that culminated after 30 years with the record 45th printing of The 12th Planet, are out of print and are also Sitchin collectibles now. The first two titles, The Twelfth Planet and The Stairway to Heaven, will be published this month (August 2009), with the other titles spread over the following months. Chinese will be the 25th language into which Zecharia's books have been translated.
Welcome to Guys Read, a web-based literacy program for boys founded by author and First National Ambassador of Young People’s Literature Jon Scieszka. Our mission is to help boys become self-motivated, lifelong readers. Research shows that boys are having trouble reading, and that boys are getting worse at reading. 