Neuschwanstein Castle, one of the most popular destinations in Europe, is located in the German State of Bavaria close to the Germany's border with Austria, not far from the popular ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen. The closest airport is Munich, 128km to the north east. 
castle corners of the planet History. Neuschwanstein Castle is located in Germany, standing on the of a rocky outcrop 200 meters, near Fuessen füssen in The. Allgaeu ALLGäU ludwig ii had built it in the. 19th, century today it is the most famous Castle, of germany visited annually by millions. of tourists Seven weeks after the death of Louis II in 1886, the castle of Neuschwanstein was opened to the public. The king, unsociable, had built the castle to get away from crowds. Her refuge is now becoming a big attraction. Neuschwanstein is most visited castles in Europe.
Neuschwanstein Castle. castle corners of the planet History. Neuschwanstein Castle is located in Germany, standing on the of a rocky outcrop 200 meters, near Fuessen füssen in The. Allgaeu ALLGäU ludwig ii had built it in the. 19th century Seven weeks after the death of Louis II in 1886, the castle of Neuschwanstein was opened to the public. The king, unsociable, had built the castle to get away from crowds. Her refuge is now becoming a big attraction. Neuschwanstein is most visited castles in Europe.
Neuschwanstein is considered to be the southernmost end of Germany's Romantic Road, in southern Bavaria. Visitors to Neuschwanstein usually stay in Fussen, so we've put a marker on the train station there. We recommend a stay in Hohenschwangau, and a recommended hotel, the Hotel Mueller, müller is marked on the map as. well Below is our interactive Neuschwanstein map showing the castle, our recommended hotel, and the train station in Fussen, the place most folks stay when they visit Neuschwanstein. You can see the beauty of this area, and it's worth a three day stay if you like stunning rural scenery.
Neuschwanstein Today. The castle of Ludwig II remains one of the most visited castles in Europe, receiving approximately 1.3 million visitors a year. The castle is open year-round and is closed only four days a year: December 24 and 25, December 31 and January 1. Tickets can only be purchased at the village of Hohenschwangau, located near the castle. The ticket center is open an hour before the castle opens and closes an hour before the castle closes. The castle is not open for general admission but only for guided tours of the public areas of the building.
Neuschwanstein, located just outside of the town of Fussen in the Bavarian Alps, is truly impressive. It was a remarkable project initiated by “Mad” King Ludwig I. It took unfortunately, construction was never completed, and Ludwig lived in it for only 6 months (I think) before his death. 
[nɔʏˈʃvaːnʃtaɪn] , English: New Swanstone Castle) is a nineteenth-century Romanesque Revival palace on a rugged hill above the village of Hohenschwangau near Fuessen füssen in Southwest, Bavaria. germany In 1977, Neuschwanstein Castle became the motif of a West German definitive stamp, and it appeared on a €2 commemorative coin for the German Bundeslaender bundesländer series in. 2012
Neuschwanstein Castle is located near Fuessen füssen in Southwest Bavaria. Germany the castle is situated on a rugged hill above the village Of. Hohenschwangau for the exact location Of Neuschwanstein, castle check out the location map to the. right The castle is situated on a rugged hill above the village of Hohenschwangau. For the exact location of Neuschwanstein Castle, check out the location map to the right.
Neuschwanstein Castle location. Neuschwanstein Castle is located near Fuessen füssen in Southwest Bavaria. Germany the castle is situated on a rugged hill above the village Of. hohenschwangau The castle is situated on a rugged hill above the village of Hohenschwangau. For the exact location of Neuschwanstein Castle, check out the location map to the right.