Paramagnetic properties are due to the presence of some unpaired electrons, and from the realignment of the electron paths caused by the external magnetic field. Paramagnetic materials include magnesium, molybdenum, lithium, and tantalum.
Constituent atoms or molecules of paramagnetic materials have permanent magnetic moments (dipoles), even in the absence of an applied field. The permanent moment generally is due to the spin of unpaired electrons in atomic or molecular electron orbitals (see Magnetic moment).
Diamagnetic properties arise from the realignment of the electron paths under the influence of an external magnetic field. Most elements in the periodic table, including copper, silver, and gold, are diamagnetic. Paramagnetic materials have a small, positive susceptibility to magnetic fields.
Alternately, materials with some unpaired electrons will have a net magnetic field and will react more to an external field. Most materials can be classified as diamagnetic, paramagnetic or ferromagnetic. Diamagnetic materials have a weak, negative susceptibility to magnetic fields.
All of the electrons are spin-paired in diamagnetic elements so their subshells are completed, causing them to be unaffected by magnetic fields. Paramagnetic elements are strongly affected by magnetic fields because their subshells are not completely filled with electrons. So, to determine whether the elements are paramagnetic or diamagnetic, write out the electron configuration for each element. Li and N are paramagnetic.
Diamagnetic properties arise from the realignment of the electron orbits under the influence of an external magnetic field. Most elements in the periodic table, including copper, silver, and gold, are diamagnetic. Paramagnetic metals have a small and positive susceptibility to magnetic fields.
A paramagnetism material has unpaired electrons in the molecular or atomic orbitals. When atoms of an element have unpaired electrons, the element will be paramagnetic. For example, the electronic configuration of Co is [Ar]4s2 3d7, and 3 of the 7 d electrons are unpaired.
No. Zinc is not paramagnetic.   The electron configuration of Zn(0), or zinc metal, is [Ar] 3d10 4s2. All electrons are paired, and therefore Zn(0) is diamagnetic.  …  The most common ionized form of zinc, Zn(2+) is also