Because the peptidyl transferase center is entirely contained in the large subunit, it should be possible to learn a lot about the mechanism of peptide-bond formation from crystal structures of large subunits with substrates like these bound. First, although the structures provide strong support for the idea that the peptidyl transferase center enhances the rate of peptide-bond formation by aligning its substrates appropriately (Page and Jencks 1971; Nierhaus et al. 1980; Nissen et al.
Therefore, the revelation in a recent publication [1] that the ribosomal peptidyl transferase, which forms the peptide bonds of all cellular proteins, is instead an RNA enzyme is a thought-provoking turnabout. These RNAs bind with affinities comparable to the peptidyl transferase itself. Most relevant is the fact that the selected RNAs exhibit up to 17 nucleotides identical to large subunit ribosomal RNA [5] , in regions both conserved (Figure 1C) and implicated in peptide synthesis [6] .
Abstract. The finding that the universal ribosomal peptidyl transferase is an RNA enzyme casts new light on its ancient origins, on the use of transition state analogues for ribozymes, and on the role of selection-amplification in studies of molecular evolution. These RNAs bind with affinities comparable to the peptidyl transferase itself. Most relevant is the fact that the selected RNAs exhibit up to 17 nucleotides identical to large subunit ribosomal RNA [5] , in regions both conserved (Figure 1C) and implicated in peptide synthesis [6] .
The Peptidyl transferase is an aminoacyltransferase (EC 2.3.2.12) as well as the primary enzymatic function of the ribosome, which forms peptide bonds between adjacent amino acids using tRNAs during the translation process of protein biosynthesis. Peptidyl transferase activity is not mediated by any ribosomal proteins but by ribosomal RNA (rRNA), a ribozyme. Ribozymes are the only enzymes which are not made up of proteins, but ribonucleotides. All other enzymes are made up of proteins.
Medical Definition of PEPTIDYL TRANSFERASE. : an enzyme that catalyzes the addition of amino acid residues to the growing polypeptide chain in protein synthesis by means of peptide bonds. What made you want to look up peptidyl transferase? 
Peptidyltransferase. peptidyltransferase. (Science: enzyme) An enzyme that catalyses the transfer of aminoacyl-tRNA to formyl-methionine-tRNA or peptidyl-tRNA during peptide chain elongation. It is a part of the 50 s (bacteria) and 60 s (eukaryotes) ribosomal subunits.
In biochemistry, transferase is the general name for the class of enzymes that enact the transfer of specific functional groups (e.g. a methyl or glycosyl group) from one molecule (called the donor) to another (called the acceptor). In this case, an amino acid chain is the functional group transferred by a Peptidyl transferase. The transfer involves the removal of the growing amino acid chain from the tRNA molecule in the A-site of the ribosome and its subsequent addition to the amino acid attached to the tRNA in the P-site.
Peptidyl Transferase (Molecular Biology). Peptidyl transferase is an integral part of the large subunit of ribosomes and catalyzes peptide-bond formation in the elongation step of translation during protein biosynthesis. Peptide-bond formation involves an acyl group O-to-N migration and converts an ester to an amide. Peptidyl transferase is also involved in the termination reaction of protein synthesis and hydrolyzes the ester bond between the peptide chain and tRNA at the P site of the ribosome (see Release Factor).
Peptidyl transferase activity is carried out by the ribosome. Peptidyl transferase activity is not mediated by any ribosomal proteins but by ribosomal RNA (rRNA), a ribozyme. Ribozymes are the only enzymes which are not made up of proteins, but ribonucleotides. All other enzymes are made up of proteins.