gonadotropin-releasing hormone. n. Abbr. GnRH A hormone produced by the hypothalamus that stimulates the anterior pituitary gland to begin secreting luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone. Also called luliberin, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone. gonadotropin-releasing hormone. a hormone produced in the hypothalamus and passed to the adenohypophysis via the hypophyseal portal vascular system, stimulating the release of the gonadotropins, especially luteiniz
LH and FSH are secreted from cells in the anterior pituitary gland, and are called gonadotropins because of their role in stimulating the gonads. The principle regulator of LH and FSH secretion is gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). GnRH is secreted from the hypothalamus. GnRH stimulates secretion of LH and FSH, which in turn stimulates gonadal secretion of the sex steroids testosterone, estrogen and progesterone (see diagram at left).
Overview of hypothalamic–gonadotrope development. (a) Migration of gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons from the olfactory placode to the fetal hypothalamus. (b) Differentiation of the specific cell lineages in the developing anterior pituitary gland. The gonadotropins, FSH and LH, are heterodimeric glycoprotein hormones released in pulses from the pituitary gonadotrope cells. FSH and LH secretion is regulated by hypothalamic GnRH, which itself is pulsatile. GnRH‐secreting neurons originate in the olfactory placode and migrate to the hypothalamus during development; defects affecting neuronal migration can be associated with a lack of smell (anosmia)
(January 2013). Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), also known as luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and luliberin, as well as gonadorelin (INN), is a trophic peptide hormone responsible for the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) from the anterior pituitary. GnRH is found in organs outside of the hypothalamus and pituitary, and its role in other life processes is poorly understood. For instance, there is likely to be a role for GnRH1 in the placenta and in the gonads. GnRH and GnRH receptors are also found in cancers of the breast, ovary, prostate, and endometrium.
At the pituitary, GnRH stimulates the synthesis and secretion of the gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH). These processes are controlled by the size and frequency of GnRH pulses, as well as by feedback from androgens and estrogens. Low-frequency GnRH pulses are required for FSH release, whereas high-frequency GnRH pulses stimulate LH pulses in a one to one manner. GnRH is found in organs outside of the hypothalamus and pituitary, and its role in other life processes is poorly understood. For instance, there is likely to be a role for GnRH1 in the placenta and in the gonads. GnRH and GnRH receptors are also found in cancers of the breast, ovary, prostate, and endometrium.
The emerging picture suggests that GnRH cells do not originate from the olfactory placodes, but arise from multiple embryonic origins, and transiently associate with the developing olfactory system as they migrate to ventral forebrain locations. Here, the embryonic origins of GnRH cells are re-examined in light of recent data suggesting that forebrain GnRH cells arise from the anterior pituitary placode and cranial neural crest, from where they migrate to their final destinations.
More recently, it was discovered that a subset of GnRH neurons can trace their origins not from the nasal placode, but from the neural crest earlier in embryogenesis. This subset of cells migrates into the nasal placode, where they intermix with GnRH neurons born in this region, and migrate together into the brain. Failure of GnRH neurons to form the proper connections, or failure to successfully stimulate the pituitary with GnRH, means that puberty is not initiated. These disruptions to the GnRH system cause reproductive disorders like hypogonadotropic hypogonadism or Kallmann Syndrome.
Origin and development of GnRH neurons. Whitlock KE. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) is an essential decapeptide, with both endocrine and neuromodulatory functions in vertebrates. Here, the embryonic origins of GnRH cells are re-examined in light of recent data suggesting that forebrain GnRH cells arise from the anterior pituitary placode and cranial neural crest, from where they migrate to their final destinations.
In 1989, two research groups independently discovered that GnRH neurons, which in adults are scattered throughout the hypothalamus, do not originate in this region of the brain. Instead, they migrate into the brain along olfactory axon fibers from the nose. Failure of GnRH neurons to form the proper connections, or failure to successfully stimulate the pituitary with GnRH, means that puberty is not initiated. These disruptions to the GnRH system cause reproductive disorders like hypogonadotropic hypogonadism or Kallmann Syndrome.