Directions: Bring oats and water to a boil, then reduce heat to medium-high and simmer for about 30 minutes, stirring occasionally, until liquid has evaporated. Toss in curry powder, salt, and fish sauce and mix. Add veggies and chicken and remove from heat. Garnish with green onions. 1. Combine oatmeal, stock, oregano, and pepper in a saucepan and cook over medium heat for 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 2. Heat 1/2 tablespoon oil in a pan over low heat. Add garlic, olives, and sun-dried tomatoes and saute about 3 minutes, until tender.
Leftovers keep in the fridge for a week, so make a big batch over the weekend and reheat before you dash out the door. Here’s how to do it: Bring about three cups of water or milk to a boil, then mix in one cup of steel cut oats and a pinch of salt. Simmer, uncovered, for 20–30 minutes, stirring every few minutes so that the bottom doesn’t burn. next. 11 Best Goggles. Sure, oats can be a bit bland, but think of them as a blank slate: they absorb the flavor of whatever you mix in. Plus, they pack a ton of health benefits—especially the steel-cut variety “The grain’s nutrients, like fiber, are fully intact.
I call for 1 cup oats here. This will make enough for 3 to 5 servings. Remember, when you make steel-cut oats you really should make enough for a whole week, or at least several days. Unlike gluey, sticky rolled oat oatmeal, steel-cut oatmeal is great when reheated the next day. It just gets creamier — not ickier. So make a big pot and eat out of it all week. 
Regularly eating steel cut oats gives you the same health benefits as rolled oats, says Monica Reinagel, MS, LD/N. A diet that includes oats may decrease your risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, hypertension and obesity. The low glycemic index of steel cut oats prolongs the feeling of satiety after eating by preventing rapid peaks and dips in blood glucose levels. By making you feel fuller for a longer period of time, oats can be an effective part of an overall weight-management program.
I eat oats with protein powder, two scoops of powder per bowl of oatmeal, as a post-exercise meal. That’s exactly what I do! To start the day: I mix chocolate protein powder with water, almond milk and add 2 3 tablespoons of steel cut and it keeps me alert and full until around noon. 
If you love steel-cut oats for breakfast, you can make a big batch on the weekend and parcel it out all week long. It firms up in the fridge, but a splash of milk and a minute or two in the microwave softens it right back up again. How to cook steel-cut oats in 30 minutes. Yes, they take longer to cook than our standby rolled oats, but the trade-off is the best bowl of oatmeal you've ever had. Pin it Steel-cut oats are made from whole oat groats — the steel-cut part of the name comes from how the groats are chopped into small, nubbly pieces.
And you can even drink your oats in a smoothie; here's five recipes to try out. Scottish Oatmeal: These are groats that aren’t cut or rolled, but stone-ground. The texture of Scottish oatmeal is fine, but not as fine as that of oat flour, and when cooked in simmering water for 10 minutes or so, turn creamy. But oats are a whole grain—one that is cheap, simple to cook or enjoy raw, and easy to work into breakfast and other meals. I’ll give you the rundown in a sec, but first a little background. Oats, which belong to the grasses family (Gramineae), likely originated in Asia Minor, which comprises most of modern-day Turkey.
Steel cut oats differ from old-fashioned, rolled oats in only one way: Steel cut oats are not rolled flat into flakes. Instead, the whole toasted oat grain, or groat, that is used to produce rolled oats is cut into thirds to yield steel cut oats. The low glycemic index of steel cut oats prolongs the feeling of satiety after eating by preventing rapid peaks and dips in blood glucose levels. By making you feel fuller for a longer period of time, oats can be an effective part of an overall weight-management program.
1 Bring the water to a boil: Use 3 cups of water for firmer, more intact oat grains or 4 cups of water for creamier oatmeal. 2  Pour the water into a saucepan and bring it to a boil over high heat. 3  Stir in the oats and the salt: Pour the oats into the water, add the salt, and stir. Yes, they take longer to cook than our standby rolled oats, but the trade-off is the best bowl of oatmeal you've ever had. Pin it Steel-cut oats are made from whole oat groats — the steel-cut part of the name comes from how the groats are chopped into small, nubbly pieces.
And if your chief complaint is that you don’t have time in the morning to cook hot cereal for 30 minutes (or longer), then simply soak the steel-cut oats in water (four parts water to one part oats) in a covered container overnight. But oats are a whole grain—one that is cheap, simple to cook or enjoy raw, and easy to work into breakfast and other meals. I’ll give you the rundown in a sec, but first a little background. Oats, which belong to the grasses family (Gramineae), likely originated in Asia Minor, which comprises most of modern-day Turkey.