Lower the crawfish into the boil. Place the crawfish in a crawfish basket, made out of wire with a handle for lowering it into the pot. Crawfish baskets are used so that the crawfish can boil in the top part of the water while the vegetables cook underneath. Let the crawfish boil in the water for 5 minutes. 1  If you have a large strainer that fits over the top of the pot, this can be used as a substitute for the crawfish basket. 1 Use a paddle to stir the crawfish, then let them sit in the water for 30 minutes. 2  Discard the dead crawfish, which will float to the top after a few minutes. 3  Strain the water and rinse the crawfish with clean water. 4  Keep them in a shady spot until you're ready to boil them.
To cook four 8-ounce tails, bring 6 cups salted water to boiling in a 3-quart saucepan. Add the lobster tails. Simmer, uncovered, for 8 to 12 minutes or until shells turn bright red and the meat is tender when poked with a fork. For larger or smaller tails, adjust the cooking time as needed. Drain in a colander. 
Bring a pot (2 - 3 gallons) of water to a boil. Stir in one pound of non-iodized salt and return to boil. This may seem like an excessive amount of salt, but crayfish are not in the water very long and it's not easy for the salt/seasoning to seep around the shell into the meat.Boil crayfish for 3 or 4 minutes. Boil crayfish in salted water using only about 1/4 to 1/3 the salt you would've used for straight salted crayfish. Place a layer of the still hot crayfish about 2-3 deep in the bottom of a clean Coleman-type plastic cooler, making sure the plug is in. Sprinkle some cajun seasoning on top.
If you are going to cook more than one pot of crayfish you will need a pot with a strainer basket to hold your crayfish. Crayfish can be cooked on a kitchen stove, but it's easier if you have one of the outdoor gas cookers. These units can bring a big pot of water to boil in a hurry. They can be purchased at many large department or building supply stores for under $50.00. Basic Salted Crayfish. Crayfish can be cooked without salt if you are on a low sodium diet, but they won't taste as good. Boil crayfish in salted water using only about 1/4 to 1/3 the salt you would've used for straight salted crayfish. Place a layer of the still hot crayfish about 2-3 deep in the bottom of a clean Coleman-type plastic cooler, making sure the plug is in. Sprinkle some cajun seasoning on top.
As soon as the water starts to boil rapidly again, start dropping in the crayfish, head and stomach first, one at a time. Do not cook more than 6 to 12 crayfish at a time. Cook the crayfish for about 5 minutes (between 2 and 10 minutes, depending on their size). Begin timing as soon as the water returns to a rolling boil, after the dropping of the last crayfish in the pot. When done, crayfish should have a visible chink between the shell and the tail
1 Add basket to water. 2  Wait for water to boil or about ~5-7 min (if you have a high water to crawfish ratio, it will be less time). 3  When you see first signs of boiling, start timer for 4 minutes! 4  Total time in water before next step should not exceed 10 minutes. Step 8: Bring Crawfish To A Boil. Once the crawfish are in the pot, crank up the heat. You want to bring the crawfish to a boil as fast as possible. With my High Pressure burner it takes about 5 minutes to get back to a boil using a 60qt pot.
Boil 10 to 15 minutes, depending on size of crawfish, turn off heat for 10 minutes,then put in ice chest for 10 minutes and then we eat. We boil about 50 to 60 pounds for 6 to 8 people. Left overs are frozen if there are any. Wash them well so you don't have bait or grass when you are ready to eat. 
This is how I boil/cook crawfish. There are 100s of ways to do it, this is just one. I have tried many different ways, and found this way to be the best for me. Step 8: Bring Crawfish To A Boil. Once the crawfish are in the pot, crank up the heat. You want to bring the crawfish to a boil as fast as possible. With my High Pressure burner it takes about 5 minutes to get back to a boil using a 60qt pot.
When the water comes to a boil, place the crawfish into the basket and put the basket in the pot. (Be careful-it's very hot!) Put the lid on the pot and enjoy another beer. When the water comes back to a rolling boil-keep a very close eye on this part (time it) - let it boil for 2 minutes and turn off the fire. Place the lid on the pot and bring water to a boil. While you wait for water to boil, rinse the crawfish with fresh cool water until draining water is clear. You do not need to “purge” them with salt. Rinsing will do just fine.