1 Insoluble fiber. 2  Raw fruits, raw vegetables, seeds, and nuts also act as a stimulant in the digestive system and can cause a narrowing to become blocked. 3  On the other hand, soluble fiber, such as pasta, rice, baked potatoes, and oatmeal, can be soothing in that it helps bind loose stools. 4  Alcohol.
Campylobacter: Undercooked Poultry. As little as one drop of raw chicken juice can cause campylobacter illness -- a little-known illness that is the second-leading cause of food poisoning in the U.S. Symptoms can include fever, cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common disorder of the intestines. It can cause cramping, stomach pain, gas, bloating, and changes in bowel habits. Some people with IBS have constipation (difficult or infrequent bowel movements). Others have diarrhea (frequent, loose stools).
1 Caffeine is also a food that can cause diarrhea. 2  Caffeine causes stimulation in the gastrointestinal tract which leads to strong contractions and more bowel movements. 3  Also caffeine has a diuretic effect which can worsen the dehydration caused by th
1 Insoluble fiber is another one of the foods that cause diarrhea. 2  Raw fruits, raw vegetables, seeds and nuts can act as very powerful stimulants to the digestive system which will cause diarrhea. 3  Insoluble fiber does not dissolve in water and passes straight into the intestines causing gas and diarrhea.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a problem that affects mainly the bowel, the part of the digestive system that makes and stores stool. IBS has several symptoms, such as cramping, bloating, gas, diarrhea, and constipation, and can be very painful.
Steak Photo Credit Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images. Red meat is a staple food in many American homes, but for some people, red meat can cause adverse reactions, such as diarrhea, stomach pain and cramping. If you notice that every time you eat red meat you develop diarrhea, you need to make an appointment with your health care provider.