So you can guess that a First Aid CPR AED course, covering both First Aid AND CPR AED can be anywhere from 4-6 hours long. Shorter if it is a refresher or renewal course, longer if there are folks who have never taken a course before. Renewal courses that I offer through the ASHI program can be as short as 2 hours. A First Aid or Pediatric First Aid course is also about 3 hours long. Sometimes I plan on 3 1/2 hours for a class if I know the group is large or if it is a first class for most of the group.
The first thing to know is that the time for how long does CPR certification last varies from state to state or from province to province and you are advised to check with your local institutes to confirm the time period your state has allowed. The answer to how long does CPR certification last is that it varies from place to place but an average of 2 years is the time for how long does CPR certification last. You can also learn about other first aid techniques along with CPR and become a thoroughly accomplished First Aid doctor!
Red Cross CPR training is 4 hrs and the Red Cross first aid is 4 hrs. A one day course. I would recommend First Responder class. The course should be offered through a community college or local volunteer fire dept if your in a rural area. 
ECSI and AHA has a two year certification. I would not recommend going through red cross, it is a waste of time and money. I use to be red cross instructor and I will never do that again. With ECSI you can also take the course online for a fraction of the price. But you will then have to find an ECSI training center to get tested on your skills. Go to ECSInstitute.org or Americaheart.org to find a class near you. Check with your city they usually have classes every month for CPR certification. It usually takes about 4 hours not 1 hour (if you had the training before and need an update on new procedures its an hour). Tapestry6 · 6 years ago.
Report Abuse. It usually takes about 2-3 hours depending on what they will teach you and how the class is run and how big the class size is. If you are worried call the instructor and ask how long it will last. Sorry but CPR is much more important than anything you need to do afterwards. mlgable · 8 years ago. RE: How long does a CPR certification class take? I&#39;ve got a CPR certification class on Wednesday and I have things to do afterwards but I don&#39;t know how long that takes does anybody?
The length of the course will also generally reflect on the quality of the certification. If possible, I would suggest you take a St. John Ambulance Senior First Aid course. This takes 2 days and is usually pretty inexpensive. This will qualify you to render first aid in a myriad of cirumstances, you will also get a first aid manual and a few bandages to take home (atleast this is true in Australia). Pharmacy aides also receive informal on-the-job training that generally lasts less than 3 months or take up training programs both online and on a traditional training center that may last up to 250 hours. Certification and other qualifications.
Today was no exception. A CPR AED course is about 3 hours long. It can run shorter if everyone is renewing their card or if it is a small group. Since I teach both AHA and ASHI I find the full course is about 2.5-3 hours long. Renewal courses that I offer through the ASHI program can be as short as 2 hours. A First Aid or Pediatric First Aid course is also about 3 hours long. Sometimes I plan on 3 1/2 hours for a class if I know the group is large or if it is a first class for most of the group.