Glutathione (GSH) is a deceptively simple string of 3 amino acids, glutamine, cysteine and glycine. GSH also has a sulfur molecule which binds with toxins and gives it a distinct aroma. Toxic exposure and oxidative stress can deplete glutathione levels resulting in an array of both chronic and acute conditions. 
Glutathione (GSH) is an important antioxidant in plants, animals, fungi, and some bacteria and archaea, preventing damage to important cellular components caused by reactive oxygen species such as free radicals, peroxides, lipid peroxides and heavy metals. So, for every GSSG and NADPH, two reduced GSH molecules are gained, which can again act as antioxidants scavenging reactive oxygen species in the cell. In healthy cells and tissue, more than 90% of the total glutathione pool is in the reduced form (GSH) and less than 10% exists in the disulfide form (GSSG).
Glutathione exists in both reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) states. In the reduced state, the thiol group of cysteine is able to donate a reducing equivalent (H + + e −) to other unstable molecules, such as reactive oxygen species. So, for every GSSG and NADPH, two reduced GSH molecules are gained, which can again act as antioxidants scavenging reactive oxygen species in the cell. In healthy cells and tissue, more than 90% of the total glutathione pool is in the reduced form (GSH) and less than 10% exists in the disulfide form (GSSG).
Glutathione (or GSH) is the body’s own master antioxidant discovered way back in 1889. However, it was only about 30 years ago that the scientists began to understand its functions and discovered how to raise its levels. GSH is produced out of these three precursors in every cell of the human body and performs many important roles, such as: 1  Regulation of cell growth and division. 2  For cells to grow and divide they go through several very complex stages.
Glutathione (GSH) is often referred to as the body's master antioxidant. Composted of three amino acids-cysteine, glycine, and glutamate-glutathione can be found in virtually every cell of the human body. As GSH levels rise, they self-limit further GSH synthesis; otherwise, cysteine availability is usually rate-limiting. Fasting, protein-energy malnutrition, or other dietary amino acid deficiencies limit GSH synthesis.
A tripeptide of glycine, l-cysteine, and l-glutamate, with l-glutamate having an isopeptide bond with the amino moiety of l-cysteine. Glutathione has a wide variety of roles in a cell; it is the most prevalent non-protein thiol. glutathione. reduced glutathione (GSH), a tripeptide containing glutamic acid, cysteine and glycine, which serves as a reducing agent in many biochemical reactions, being converted to oxidized glutathione (GSSG) in which the cysteine residues of two glutathione molecules are connected by a disulfide bridge.
Glutathione is the most powerful and most abundant antioxidant in healthy cells. It’s the body’s workhorse to remove waste from cells and it’s one of the most commonly used medical test markers for health. A compromised person living with stress, toxins or disease, will have low glutathione GSH levels. 
Glutathione is the master antioxidant and detoxifier of every cell in your body. It is a tripeptide composed of three amino acids-cysteine, glutaminic acid and glycine. Glutathione is the most important antioxidant produced by the body. It prevents cellular damage caused by free radicals and peroxides. Some of its antioxidant functions in the body include:
Reduced glutathione (GSH) is a linear tripeptide of L-glutamine, L-cysteine, and glycine. Technically N-L-gamma-glutamyl-cysteinyl glycine or L-glutathione, the molecule has a sulfhydryl (SH) group on the cysteinyl portion, which accounts for its strong electron-donating character. As GSH levels rise, they self-limit further GSH synthesis; otherwise, cysteine availability is usually rate-limiting. Fasting, protein-energy malnutrition, or other dietary amino acid deficiencies limit GSH synthesis.
The Quick view... The tri-peptide glutathione or (GSH) is a combination of the amino acids glutamate (glutamic acid), L-cysteine, and glycine. Each and every cell in the body takes these raw ingredients to manufacture GSH. It is a very small protein (made of three amino acids) and is essential for life. 