Indian name. In Indian, the name Tanuja means-daughter.The name Tanuja originated as an Indian name. The name Tanuja is most often used as a girl name or female name. Indian Name Meaning-daughter. 
Meaning of Indian name: Tanuja. Meaning of the name Tanuja is 'Daughter'. Tanuja is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Tanuja is '4'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Tanuja
Name Tanuja generally means Daughter, is of Indian origin, Name Tanuja is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Tanuja are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Tanuja belongs to rashi Tula (Libra), Sinh (Leo) with dominant planet Venus (Shukra) and Nakshatra (stars) Makha.
The meaning of Tanuja is “Born of the body”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Tanuja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
[ syll. ta-nu-ja, tan-uja ] The baby boy name Tanuja is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as T AE NuwJHAH †. Tanuja is derived from Sanskrit origins. The name is of the meaning born of the body. Tanuja is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Tanuja include Taema, Tameas (English), Tanakee, Tanakey, Tanaki, Tanakie, Tanaky, Tanguy (Breton and French), Tatonga, Teatonka, Teetonka, Tehoma, Teitonka, Tenchea, Tenesee, Tennesee, Tennessee (English), Tennesy, Tessema, and Teytonka.
Find qualities of Librans (Tula), Leo (Sinh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Tanuja or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Tula (Libra), Sinh (Leo) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Tanja, Tanuj. Name Tanuja belongs to rashi Tula (Libra), Sinh (Leo) with dominant planet Venus (Shukra) and Nakshatra (stars) Makha.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Tanuja and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Tanuja and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Tanuja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Tanuja for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Tanuja is a unisex name, used as a boy name and a girl name. If you consider naming your baby Tanuja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
This doesn't mean that the name Tanuja is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. If you consider naming your baby Tanuja we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.