Work on the bathymetry of the ocean basins (mainly with echo-sounding devices) has revealed many morphologic features that were previously unknown, such as oceanic ridges, abyssal plains (and hills), seamounts, trenches, and continental margins, all of these features are now easily explained by plate tectonics. There are basically three different types of plate boundaries (divergent, convergent, transform), and a fourth type (boundary zones) is sometimes designated when it is difficult to define a clear boundary: 1  Divergent boundaries -- where new crust is generated as the plates pull away from each other.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The abyssal plain is formed when the lower crust (typically between the foot of a continental rise and a mid-oceanic ridge) melts and, pushed up by the up-welling mantle, forms new oceanic crust. This eventually becomes overlain with sediments, mainly clay and silt, producing the flat appearance
Abyssal plains result from the blanketing of an originally uneven surface of oceanic crust by fine-grained sediments, mainly clay and silt. Much of this sediment is deposited by turbidity currents that have been channelled from the continental margins along submarine canyons down into deeper water. The final zone includes the deep oceanic trenches, and is known as the hadal zone. This, the deepest oceanic zone, extends from a depth of 6000 metres down to approximately 11000 metres. Abyssal plains are typically located in the abyssal zone, at depths ranging from 3000 to 6
A-C. Abyssal Plain The flat area of the ocean basins between oceanic ridges and trenches or passive margins. Average depth of the abyssal plain is 4km below sea level. Typically the sedimentary rocks forming here are black shales and turbidites. Accretionary Wedge (prism) A zone of deformed sediment made up of thrust slices scraped off a subducting oceanic plate and added onto the over-riding plate. Continental Crust A collective term for the crust that forming the continents; it has an average thickness of 35 km but can be up to 70 km under mountain ranges. Typically the composition is granitic with a density of 2.7 meaning that it is too buoyant to be subducted at convergent (destructive) plate margins.
Template:Aquatic layer topics. An abyssal plain is an underwater plain on the deep ocean floor, usually found at depths between 3000 and 6000 m. Lying generally between the foot of a continental rise and a mid-ocean ridge, abyssal plains cover more than 50% of the Earth ’s surface. The final zone includes the deep oceanic trenches, and is known as the hadal zone. This, the deepest oceanic zone, extends from a depth of 6000 metres down to approximately 11000 metres. Abyssal plains are typically located in the abyssal zone, at depths ranging from 3000 to 6
Active continental margins form primarily along the boundaries of plates that are actively converging and where one plate is sinking beneath the other. Active margins mark the continents that border the Pacific Ocean where oceanic plates are subducting beneath continental plates. Passive continental margin: A continental margin that has a broad continental shelf, a gentle continental slope, and a pronounced continental rise; it is marked by a lack of earthquake and volcanic activity. Plates: Large sections of Earth's lithosphere separated by deep fault zones.
They are poorly preserved in the sedimentary record, because they tend to be consumed by the subduction process. The creation of the abyssal plain is the end result of spreading of the seafloor (plate tectonics) and melting of the lower oceanic crust. Magma rises from above the asthenosphere (a layer of the upper mantle) and as this basaltic material reaches the surface at mid-ocean ridges it forms new oceanic crust. Abyssal plains result from the blanketing of an originally uneven surface of oceanic crust by fine-grained sediments, mainly clay and silt. Much of this sediment is deposited by turbidity currents that have been channelled from the continental margins along submarine canyons down into deeper water.
An abyssal plain is an underwater plain on the deep ocean floor, usually found at depths between 3000 and 6000 m. Lying generally between the foot of a continental rise and a mid-ocean ridge, abyssal plains cover more than 50% of the Earth ’s surface. They are among the flattest, smoothest and least explored regions on Earth. Abyssal plains result from the blanketing of an originally uneven surface of oceanic crust by fine-grained sediments, mainly clay and silt. Much of this sediment is deposited by turbidity currents that have been channelled from the continental margins along submarine canyons down into deeper water.