peroneus brevis. The muscle arising from the distal two thirds of the lateral fibula and attaching to the styloid process of the base of the fifth metatarsal. The peroneus brevis assists in plantar flexion of the foot and eversion of the ankle. See also: peroneus.
Synonyms: fibularis longus (muscle). The definition information for peroneus longus (muscle) is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students
peroneus longus, the more superficial of the two lateral muscles of the leg. The muscle pronates and plantar flexes the foot. Compare peroneus brevis. The muscle arising from the lateral tibial condyle and the upper two thirds of the fibula and inserting on the lateral aspect of the first metatarsal and the associated portion of the first cuneiform.
Peroneus longus Definition. It is the more superficial of the two lateral muscles of the lower leg. The long, strap-like structure is also called fibularis longus. The term Peroneus is derived from a Greek word called “Perone” referring to pin of a buckle. Simply put, it relates to the fibula of the leg. Peroneus longus Anatomy. The lateral muscle of the leg is interspersed by fibers from the lateral condyle of the tibia. The common fibular nerve passes to the exterior portion of the leg through a gap in order to innervate the muscle.
Tweet. : a peroneus muscle that arises especially from the head and side of the fibula, ends in a long tendon that inserts on the side of the first metatarsal bone and the cuneiform bone on the medial side, and aids in everting and pronating the foot. 
Medical Definition of PERONEUS BREVIS. : a peroneus muscle that arises especially from the side of the lower part of the fibula, ends in a tendon that inserts on the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and assists in everting and pronating the foot. What made you want to look up peroneus brevis? Tweet. : a peroneus muscle that arises especially from the side of the lower part of the fibula, ends in a tendon that inserts on the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and assists in everting and pronating the foot.
The peroneus brevis muscle (or fibularis brevis) lies under cover of the peroneus longus, and is a shorter and smaller muscle. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the lateral surface of the body of the fibula; medial to the peroneus longus; and from the intermuscular septa separating it from the adjacent muscles on the front and back of the leg.