You may well not have a distended gallbladder now. This just means it was full, but if you had a fat containing meal it will empty, as bile is needed to aid the digestion of fat. When a fatty meal is eaten a hormone is produced from your stomach which makes the bile enter your gut. You may need to pursue the gallbladder issue a bit to see if you have gallstones now. I would just ask about it you were told you should be followed up so whether you read your notes does not matter hun.
Overview. Gallbladder disease is a term for several types of conditions that can affect your gallbladder, a small pear shaped sac located under the liver. Your gallbladder’s main function is to store the bile produced in your liver and pass it along to the small intestine
1 What does a distended gallbladder mean. 2  Mildly distended gallbladder. 3  Means of gallbladder distended. 4  What does it mean to have a gallbladder mildly distended. 5  Diet for hepatitis b borderline. yes sir, My father in law has been diagnosis with below, 1. Distended Gall bladder having sludge and few small calculi 2. Chronic liver parenchymal disease 3. Mild degree of plenomalogaly 4. CBD ...
Get help from a doctor now ›. As an isolated: finding it is of uncertain significance, it may mean nothing. It has to be interpreted in the context of your entire clinical picture, i.e. does your doctor suspect gallbladder dysfunction or biliary problem. Likewise, a 6mm common bile duct is borderline abnormal. If you have no signs, symptoms, or lab values suggesting biliary obstruction, it may be normal for you. ...Read more. Low fat diet: Your gallbladder stores bile. When you eat fatty foods or fried foods the gallbladder secretes the bile to break the foods down. So if you want to keep your gallbladder happy avoid foods high in saturated fats and fried foods.
The most common symptom of cholecystitis is pain in your upper right abdomen that can sometimes move around to your back or right shoulder blade. Other symptoms include: 1  Nausea or vomiting. 2  Tenderness in the right abdomen. 3  Fever. 4  Pain that gets worse during a deep breath. 