Find Aroush meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Aroush name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Aroush. My daughter name is Aroosh,,,and its meaning is ''angle of perdise',,,,,,,,janat ki hoor,,,,,, Yesterday I finalized brother son name is AIMAN .how is't name please suggest me with meaning. Yesterday I finalishe my brothers son name is mohammed Aroush. Its meaning is Jannat ka Garishta....
Origin of ARUSHA. perhaps from Sanskrit aruṣa red. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Find Areesha meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Areesha name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Areesha. 
My daughter name is AROUSH TAHIR. Knowing the meaning of this Islamic name, I proposed for my daughter, as a few opposed me for this name. She is intelligent..... aroush imran khan is my baby's name and she really as beautifull as an angel of paradise............ My daughter name is Aroosh,,,and its meaning is ''angle of perdise',,,,,,,,janat ki hoor,,,,,, Yesterday I finalized brother son name is AIMAN .how is't name please suggest me with meaning. Yesterday I finalishe my brothers son name is mohammed Aroush. Its meaning is Jannat ka Garishta....
Aroosha is origonally a Persian name ,means bright,smart,daughter of the sea..and is also a city in north of Tanzania(and it's believed that Iranians went there centuries ago and called it Aroosha!). 
Definition of AROOSHA. variant spelling of arusha. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Today, I am going to finalize my sweet little baby's name Aroush Azeem. Mashallah, God bless us a very cute doll, we search alot to find a cute name like her, finally me and my wife was find a very cute name Aroush Fatima, The meaning of Aroush is Angel of Paradise Aroush is a very beautiful name. Abu Sufyan Sr. My daughter name is Aroosh,,,and its meaning is ''angle of perdise',,,,,,,,janat ki hoor,,,,,, Yesterday I finalized brother son name is AIMAN .how is't name please suggest me with meaning. Yesterday I finalishe my brothers son name is mohammed Aroush. Its meaning is Jannat ka Garishta....
The color red plays a prominent role in Hindu mythology, referring to the rising sun or the reddish horses of the son of fire.. Pronounced ahr-OO-shah, it has a stylish Russian flair. Hindi version is ARUSHI. 
Arusha-Meaning of Arusha. Tweet. [ 3 syll. a-rus-ha, ar-u- sha ] The baby boy name Arusha is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is aa-R UW-SHaa †. Arusha is used chiefly in the Indian language and its origin is Sanskrit. Arusha is a variant of the name Arusa (Indian). Arusha is rarely used as a baby name for boys. Baby names that sound like Arusha include Arusa (Indian), Arashi (Japanese), Areille, Arese, Arias, Arioch (Hebrew), Arokya (Indian), Arrigo (Italian), Aryaka (Indian), Aryia, Orjea, Orosco, Arecio, Eurico (Spanish), Orazio (Italian), Aaric, Aarick, Aarik, Ahraya, and Ahrgus.