Beryllium metal is an electrical and thermal conductor. Beryllia, the ceramic of beryllium, is a thermal conductor and an electrical insulator. Both have very high thermal con … ductivity relative to other metals or oxides. The surface of beryllium metal is covered with a … thin layer of oxide that helps protect the metal from attack by air. It does not oxidize in air even at 600°C. However, powdered beryllium metal does burn in air to give a mixture of white beryllium oxide, BeO, and beryllium nitride, Be3N2.
1 Beryllium oxide is useful for many applications that require an excellent heat conductor, with high strength and hardness, with a very high melting point, and that acts as an electrical insulator. Beryllium (IPA : /bəˈrɪliəm/) is the chemical element that has the symbol Be and atomic number 4. A bivalent element, elemental beryllium is a steel grey, strong, light-weight yet brittle, alkaline earth metal. It is primarily used as a hardening agent in alloys (most notably beryllium copper).
Beryllium-copper alloys account for approximately 80 percent of the beryllium used in the United States. These alloys are strong, hard, and nonmagnetic; they are good conductors of electricity and heat, and they resist corrosion and fatigue. 
Similar alloys may have from 2% to 3% beryllium. This material makes excellent springs, and is a good electrical conductor, since the resistivity of the copper is not raised excessively by the beryllium. Beryllium for alloying is supplied as a 4% alloy with copper, called master alloy.. Since little beryllium is used, its high cost is a minor factor. Beryllium and beryllium oxide in any forms are quite expensive, and this fact limits their use. The current price (2004) for the powder metal is $375 per pound, and for copper master alloy, $160 per pound of Be content.
Beryllium improves many physical properties when added as an alloying element to aluminium, copper (notably the alloy beryllium copper), iron and nickel. Tools made of beryllium copper alloys are strong and hard and do not create sparks when they strike a steel surface. Beryllium is a steel gray and hard metal that is brittle at room temperature and has a close-packed hexagonal crystal structure. It has exceptional stiffness (Young's modulus 287 GPa) and a reasonably high melting point. The modulus of elasticity of beryllium is approximately 50% greater than that of steel.
Beryllium is a metal that is found in nature, especially in beryl and bertrandite rock. It is extremely lightweight and hard, is a good conductor of electricity and heat, and is non-magnetic. Because of these properties, beryllium is used in high-technology consumer and commercial products, including aerospace components, transistors, nuclear reactors, and golf clubs. 
Beryllium metal is an electrical and thermal conductor. Beryllia, the ceramic of beryllium, is a thermal conductor and an electrical insulator. Both have very high thermal conductivity relative to other metals or oxides.
Beryllium copper alloys have features that include the fact that they are great conductors of temperature and are resistant to stress relaxation. Class 3 beryllium copper is a much better conductor than that of its class 4 counterpart. On the other hand, class 4 beryllium copper is much stronger than that of its class 3 counterpart. Other titles for beryllium copper include spring copper and beryllium bronze. The amount of beryllium in beryllium copper alloys does not exceed 1/50th of the total alloy and is not less than 4/10ths of a percent. The percentage of beryllium in the copper makes these alloys' strength comparable to high alloy steel.
Background. Beryllium is a metal that is found in nature, especially in beryl and bertrandite rock. It is extremely lightweight and hard, is a good conductor of electricity and heat, and is non-magnetic. 
Because of its low density and atomic mass, beryllium is relatively transparent to X-rays and other forms of ionizing radiation; therefore, it is the most common window material for X-ray equipment and components of particle physics experiments. Beryllium is a steel gray and hard metal that is brittle at room temperature and has a close-packed hexagonal crystal structure. It has exceptional stiffness (Young's modulus 287 GPa) and a reasonably high melting point. The modulus of elasticity of beryllium is approximately 50% greater than that of steel.