For a Chianti to be a Chianti, it must be produced in the Chianti region and be made from at least 80% Sangiovese grapes. While most Chiantis are 100% Sangiovese, some winemakers in the region like to blend the Sangiovese with a little Cabernet, Merlot or Syrah to soften the finished wine.
Chianti Wine. Chianti is perhaps Italy’s most popular wine, and in recent years has come to evoke images of basket-bottomed “fiasco” bottles, red and white checkered table cloths and Hannibal Lecter smacking his lips after reminiscing about sipping it paired with fava beans and a census taker’s liver.
The Sangiovese that forms the majority of the Chianti blend is a thin-skinned grape, so it makes translucent wines. In the glass, Sangiovese displays a ruby red color with flashes of bright burnt orange –a hue commonly associated with aged wines.
Chianti Classico – the wine of the historical Chianti area of Tuscany The expression Chianti Classico is reserved for wines produced in a roughly oval-shaped area of mostly hilly country located between Florence and Sienna in Tuscany, Italy.
Chianti Superiore is an Italian DOCG wine produced in the provinces of Arezzo, Florence, Pisa, Pistoia, Prato and Siena, in Tuscany. Superiore is a specification for wines produced with a stricter rule of production than other Chianti wines.
Chianti, situated in Tuscany in central Italy, is home to probably the best-known and most iconic of all Italian wines. Although a wine of ancient origin, Chianti has been recognized by its geographical area only since the Middle Ages.
Chianti, a red blend from Tuscany, is the most recognized wine outside of Italy. It is as essential to Italian cuisine as extra virgin olive oil. There are few pleasures as distinct as a tart, spicy, herbaceous Chianti wine next to a plate of sliced prosciutto or pasta al pomodoro.
When the name Chianti is used in relation to wine in a general context, it often means Chianti Classico wine which is a red wine produced from grapes grown in a roughly oval-shaped area located between Florence and Siena in Tuscany, Italy.
The Chianti wines zones. The grape from which Chianti wine is produced is fixed by law and is sangiovese, a grape native to Tuscany and extremely well-adapted to the soil and climate of Tuscany. In former times, other grapes, including white grapes, were used and the results were not all that good.
Chianti Classico is the heartland of the Chianti wine region – its traditional and longest-established viticultural area. The term classico is used in this way in several Italian wine regions (Orvieto and Valpolicella, for example), although Chianti is almost certainly the most famous example.