Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue.
Smooth muscle is an involuntary non-striated muscle. It is divided into two subgroups; the single-unit (unitary) and multiunit smooth muscle. Within single-unit cells, the whole bundle or sheet contracts as a syncytium (i.e. a multinucleate mass of cytoplasm that is not separated into cells). Smooth muscle is found within the walls of blood vessels (such smooth muscle specifically being termed vascular smooth muscle) such as in the tunica media layer of large (aorta) and small arteries, arterioles and veins.
The types of connective tissue proper vary in the type and arrangement of the fibers included and the type of ground substance or matrix. The most common cell in these tissues is the fibroblast. 
Also present, just underneath the epithelium of blood capillaries, are cells called Pericytes - (perivascular cells-peri is greek for 'around), which can divide and provide a source of new fibroblasts, especially following tissue injury. Finally, smooth muscle is commonly found in connective tissue. For example, in regions of connective tissue where there are glands, smooth muscle cells called myo-epithelial cells, which lie between epithelial cells and the basement membrane of ducts, are found. The type of connective tissue shown in this photograph on the right is is a type of loose connective tissue. Specialised connective tissue includes tendons and ligaments, Bone and Cartilage, haemopoetic tissue, blood and adipose tissue. Bone contains Osteocytes, and osteoblasts (osteo-bone) which secrete the type of extracellular matrix material (ECM) that makes up bone.
As a result of this basic topology, other tissues are either supported upon connective tissue (epithelial surfaces), invaginated into connective tissue (glandular epithelium), or embedded within the connective tissue (blood vessels, muscles, and nerves). EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX. The extracellular matrix of connective tissue is composed of ground substance and fibers. In ordinary connective tissue, the ground substanc e consists mainly of water. The principal fiber type is collagen (the most abundant protein in the body), with elastic fibers as a minor element.
MUSCLES AND MUSCLE TISSUE. Muscle is composed of fibers, nerves and connective tissues and account for over 40% of the body weight. The fibers contract to produce tension on the associated tissues or tendons. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament. There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Muscle tissue provides a) posture and body support b) locomotion and c) heat production.
While some varieties of the connective tissue proper are obvious in their form (tendon, organ capsules, fascias), others are easily confused with other tissues and cell types (for example smooth muscle, which may stain similarly to fibrous connective tissue). 
One important challenge is to distinguish dense connective tissue from smooth muscle. Remember that smooth muscle will present the features we've just seen, in either longitudinal or transverse cut. In dense connective tissue, the nuclei will usually be outside the fibers. Remember that smooth and skeletal muscle fibers are cells, while connective tissue fibers are cables of acellular collagen. This is the border of smooth muscle and dense irregular connective tissue. With your study partners, find: 1  the connective tissue. 2  the smooth muscle. 
There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. a. skeletal muscle: multinucleated, striated; attached to bones producing locomotion, general support and posture; producing heat. Contraction is voluntary, and not long-sustained. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament. There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Muscle tissue provides a) posture and body support b) locomotion and c) heat production.
Objectives: 1. Define the connective tissue layers/organization in skeletal muscle. 2. Identify the three types of muscle: smooth, cardiac and skeletal; understand why the latter two are referred to as striated muscles. 3. Identify the myofibrils and cross-striations in striated muscle fibers. 4. Distinguish between smooth muscle and dense regular connective tissue. 5.