The Kings Island Golf Center, located in the shadow of the amusement park, features both an 18-hold championship golf (designed by Jack Nicklaus) and a nine-hole family course. The center is also home to a Senior PGA tour event and offers all of the features of a country club. • Soak City Water Park. Located less than a mile from Kings Island, The Beach Waterpark features 35 acres of lush, wooded landscape (even palm trees) and an array of water features, including three pools, 11 slides and three childrens' pools. The park is open from mid-May through Labor Day.
Please try again later. Son of Beast is a record-breaking wooden roller coaster located at Kings Island in Mason, Ohio, United States, outside of Cincinnati. Son of Beast is billed as the sequel to The Beast. The ride was shut down in 2009 due to a reported injury, and has been standing but not operating since. Included in its many world records, Son of Beast was the world's tallest and fastest wooden roller coaster, the only modern wooden roller coaster in the world to incorporate a vertical loop, and the second longest wooden roller coaster (second only to its predecessor, The Beast, also located at Kings Island).
Kings Island, located 24 miles NE of Cincinnati just off of I-71, offers 364 acres of family fun, including 41 rides and 14 coasters. However, the area around Kings Island offers more to do that just riding a coaster.. There are museums, golf courses, waterparks, historic sites, and lots more near the park. • Soak City Water Park. Located less than a mile from Kings Island, The Beach Waterpark features 35 acres of lush, wooded landscape (even palm trees) and an array of water features, including three pools, 11 slides and three childrens' pools. The park is open from mid-May through Labor Day.
Kings Island's iconic entrance with the Eiffel Tower. Kings Island was conceived as early as 1964 when Coney Island, a popular amusement park 10 miles (16 km) east of downtown Cincinnati on the banks of the Ohio River, suffered from a major flood that submerged the area in over 14 feet (4.3 m) of water. On June 30, 2006, Cedar Fair Entertainment Company purchased Kings Island and the rest of Paramount Parks for approximately $1.24 billion. With this acquisition, Cedar Fair owned all three major amusement parks in Ohio: Kings Island, Cedar Point and Geauga Lake (purchased from Six Flags in 2004).
Kings Island is a 364-acre (147 ha) amusement park located 24 miles (39 km) northeast of Cincinnati in Mason, Ohio. It is owned and operated by Cedar Fair Entertainment Company. On June 30, 2006, Cedar Fair Entertainment Company purchased Kings Island and the rest of Paramount Parks for approximately $1.24 billion. With this acquisition, Cedar Fair owned all three major amusement parks in Ohio: Kings Island, Cedar Point and Geauga Lake (purchased from Six Flags in 2004).
Throughout its history, Kings Island has appeared in popular sitcoms and has been highly publicized for its record-breaking attractions and events. One of the park's most well-known attractions, The Racer, is often credited with reviving worldwide interest in roller coasters during the 1970s. On June 30, 2006, Cedar Fair Entertainment Company purchased Kings Island and the rest of Paramount Parks for approximately $1.24 billion. With this acquisition, Cedar Fair owned all three major amusement parks in Ohio: Kings Island, Cedar Point and Geauga Lake (purchased from Six Flags in 2004).
Kings Island is located 21 miles north of Cincinnati off Interstate 71. Go to the directions page on our website and type in the location of where you will be traveling from for directions to the park. Then get ready for the most fun you've ever had. That's a day at Kings Island! 
Read about the many attractions near Kings Island. Located about 15 minutes from Kings Island, along I-75, Cincinnati Premium Outlets offers more than 100 outlet retailers, including Coach, Banana Republic, Tommy Hilfiger, Polo Ralph Lauren and J. Crew. • Soak City Water Park. Located less than a mile from Kings Island, The Beach Waterpark features 35 acres of lush, wooded landscape (even palm trees) and an array of water features, including three pools, 11 slides and three childrens' pools. The park is open from mid-May through Labor Day.
Kings Island is a 364-acre theme park and water park located 24 miles north of downtown Cincinnati and 36 miles south of downtown Dayton. The largest theme and water park in the Midwest, Kings Island, entertains more than 3 million guests annually making it one of the most popular seasonal theme parks in the United States.