The Totem Lodge is located in Prince Rupert. Restaurants, shopping, and tourist attractions are all withing walking distance of the hotel. When arriving by Air Canada Jazz or Hawkair, you will reach the Digby Island Airport and will be required to take a bus and ferry to reach downtown Prince Rupert. The fee for this transportation is included in the price of your airfare.
Being a port city, Prince Rupert is the departure and arrival city for ferries to Vancouver Island, Haida Gwaii (Queen Charlotte Islands) and different spots in Alaska. A basic tourist map with the City of Prince Rupert on one side and a contact list for local tourist amenities on the other is useful. Pick one up at the Prince Rupert Visitor Centre in Atlin Terminal in Cow Bay, the main tourist hub on the waterfront.
Location. The Pacific Inn is centrally located in downtown Prince Rupert. Local tourist attractions and shopping areas are located within minutes of the hotel. For your convenience, a grocery store and pharmacy are situated just across the street. Prince Rupert can be reached by Land, Sea and Air. For train, ferry and airline schedules and rates, visit the links below.
Offering adventurers a taste of Canada's authentic untamed wilderness. Prince Rupert, British Columbia is part of the Alaska cruise theatre, located 500 miles north of Vancouver and 40 miles south of the Alaska border. Though not actually located within the State of Alaska, Prince Rupert has been a popular stop on many Alaskan cruise itineraries. Where Canada's Wilderness Begins. Prince Rupert is a vibrant community with a rich history, located in a stunning oceanfront setting surrounded by mountains. First Nations communities have lived in Prince Rupert for more than 10,000 years, and this cultural heritage is a popular experience for visitors today.
Prince Rupert is situated on Kaien Island (approximately 770 km (480 mi) north of Vancouver), just north of the mouth of Skeena River, and linked by a short bridge to the mainland. Prince Rupert was incorporated on March 10, 1910. It was named for Prince Rupert of the Rhine, who was first Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company, as the result of an open competition held by the railway, the prize for which was $250.
Official Website of Prince Rupert-PrinceRupert.com! Get stranded in Prince Rupert, located on a tiny Pacific rain-forest island in northwest BC, a transportation gateway to the north, wildlife sanctuary and home to Canada’s wettest climate. 
The city is located along the island's northwestern shore, fronting on Prince Rupert Harbour. At the western terminus of Trans-Canada Highway 16 (the Yellowhead Highway), Prince Rupert is approximately 16 km west of Port Edward, 144 km west of Terrace, and 715 km west of Prince George. Prince Rupert was incorporated on March 10, 1910. It was named for Prince Rupert of the Rhine, who was first Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company, as the result of an open competition held by the railway, the prize for which was $250.
Prince Rupert is a port city in the province of British Columbia, Canada. Located on Kaien Island, Prince Rupert is the land, air, and water transportation hub of British Columbia's North Coast, and has a population of 12,508 people (Statistics Canada, 2011). Prince Rupert was incorporated on March 10, 1910. It was named for Prince Rupert of the Rhine, who was first Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company, as the result of an open competition held by the railway, the prize for which was $250.