Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a gram-negative, rod-shaped, asporogenous, and monoflagellated bacterium that has an incredible nutritional versatility. It is a rod about 1-5 µm long and 0.5-1.0 µm wide. Description and significance. 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped, motile organism (polar flagella) which characteristically produce. water-soluble pigments which diffuse through the medium. The best known are pyocyanin (blue-green), pyoverdine (yellow-green, Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that infects burns, wounds, surgical incisions and sites of catheterization. It is the most common cause of infections of burn injuries and of the outer ear (otitis externa) .
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Pseudomonas is a genus of Gram-negative, aerobic gammaproteobacteria, belonging to the family Pseudomonadaceae containing 191 validly described species. The members of the genus demonstrate a great deal of metabolic diversity, and consequently are able to colonize a wide range of niches. Being Gram-negative bacteria, most Pseudomonas spp. are naturally resistant to penicillin and the majority of related beta-lactam antibiotics, but a number are sensitive to piperacillin, imipenem, ticarcillin, or ciprofloxacin.
Pseudomonas are proteobacteria that belong to the genus Pseudomonas. There are a number of species such as P. aeruginosa, which is an opportunistic pathogen, causing infectio … ns in CF patients, burn/wound victims etc.. There is also the P. putida, P. fluorescens etc. Characteristics of pseudomonas aeruginosa? Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common bacterium that causes disease  and infection in animals, including humans. It has a pearlescent  appearance and grape-like or tortilla-lik … e odor and thrives in  moist surfaces.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common Gram-negative bacterium that can cause disease in plants and animals, including humans. It is citrate, catalase, and oxidase positive. It is found in soil, water, skin flora, and most man-made environments throughout the world. It is a Gram-negative, aerobic, bacillus bacterium with unipolar motility. An opportunistic human pathogen, P. aeruginosa is also an opportunistic pathogen of plants. P. aeruginosa is the type species of the genus Pseudomonas (Migula).
Pseudomonas syringae S.R. Sparrow Smith Pseudomonas syringae is a Gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacteria. One distinguishing characteristic is its polar flagella. It is a Gamma Proteobacteria of the order Pseudomonadales in the family Pseudomonadaceae. 
CHARACTERISTICS: The genus Pseudomonas, of the Pseudomonadaceae family, are motile gram-negative aerobic bacteria, 2 – 4 μm long plump-shaped rods, with polar flagella which have an important role in pathogenicity. 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Mindy Merenghi Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium in the Gamma Proteobacteria class. The metabolism is respiratory, and never fermentative. It can grow in the absence of oxygen (facultative aerobe), with NO3 as the respiratory electron acceptor. All of these characteristics lead to a wide variety of diseases. The bacterium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, is unusual because it is considered an environmental microbe, but is a common (and sometimes even fatal) opportunistic pathogen in humans.