Place eggs in a pot of cold water. To avoid cracking the eggs place them in the pot with a spoon. Turn on the heat and wait until the water has come to a boil. Cover the pot, then turn off the flame. Let the pot sit with the cover on for the desired amount of time (see below).
Older eggs are easier to peel than fresh eggs. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). I find it easiest to peel the eggs under a bit of running water. The best way to store hard boiled eggs is in a covered container in the refrigerator. Eggs can release odors in the fridge which is why it helps to keep them covered. They should be eaten within 5 days.
Follow us on Pinterest. If you often cook eggs, you may have noticed that extremely fresh ones are difficult to peel when hard-boiled. The shell doesn't peel back cleanly and often leaves a pock-marked texture on the surface of the egg. But as eggs grow older, their shells peel more easily. 
Pin it. There are a million and one tips out there for how to make a hard-boiled egg easier to peel, but far fewer on why eggs are so hard to peel in the first place. One of the most frequently quoted peeling tips is that old eggs are easier to peel than fresh ones. It turns out this particular tip has some truth! Harold McGee in On Food and Cooking explains that the white albumen in a fresh eggs has a low relatively low (ie, acidic) pH level.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Eggs will be hard to peel if you use eggs that are too fresh. Look at the Use by or Sell by date on the carton and wait until a few days before that date to cook the eggs. You should also not boil the eggs. Heat the water until nearly boiling and then cook the eggs on low for 20-22 minutes (for large eggs). Peeling will be much easier.   Peeling an Egg   As soon as you get your eggs boiled (don't boil in an enamel pot or you can't get a even peel), run cold water over the eggs until the water becomes cool. Tap the top and bottom of the egg on a hard surface to break the thin skin between the shell and egg.
As a rule, the fresher the egg, the more difficult it is to peel cleanly. The albumen (white) of a just-laid egg contains a store of dissolved carbon dioxide, a weak acid. (CO 2 is what makes very fresh raw egg whites appear cloudy.) Over time, the gas exits the egg through thousands of tiny pores in the shell. 
Best Answer: I got this system on how to cook and peel hard boiled eggs from KittenCal on Recipezaar.com. It works great with really fresh eggs and the shell comes off cleanly and easily. HARD BOILED EGGS 6 Eggs (or you may increase) 2 tsp White vinegar 1 pinch Salt Water to cover 3 cups Ice cubes (or more if needed) 1. Place eggs in saucepan (one which has a tight fitting lid) 2. Cover the eggs with lukewarm water 3.
Since it may be difficult to peel extremely fresh eggs, boiled eggs are best with eggs that have already spent a few days in the refrigerator. See below for a comparison of boiled egg to 'sous vide egg'. 
If done correctly the boiled egg is one of the simplest ways to cook an egg. Since it may be difficult to peel extremely fresh eggs, boiled eggs are best with eggs that have already spent a few days in the refrigerator. See below for a comparison of boiled egg to 'sous vide egg'. To avoid cracking the eggs place them in the pot with a spoon. Turn on the heat and wait until the water has come to a boil. Cover the pot, then turn off the flame. Let the pot sit with the cover on for the desired amount of time (see below).
To easily peel a hard boiled egg, add 2-3 teaspoons of baking soda to the water used to boil the eggs. Use enough water to cover the eggs, boil for exactly 12 minutes, and t … hen pour off the boiled water and replace with cold tap water. add as many ice cubes as you can to cool off the eggs. Peeling will be much easier.   Peeling an Egg   As soon as you get your eggs boiled (don't boil in an enamel pot or you can't get a even peel), run cold water over the eggs until the water becomes cool. Tap the top and bottom of the egg on a hard surface to break the thin skin between the shell and egg.