SILICON Overview Information. Silicon is a mineral. Silicon supplements are used as medicine. Silicon is used for weak bones (osteoporosis), heart disease and stroke (cardiovascular disease), Alzheimer's disease, hair loss, and improving hair and nail quality. Acide Orthosilicique, Atomic number 14, Dioxyde de Silicium, Numero Numéro atomique, 14 Orthosilicic, Acid Phytolithic, Silica-polysilicone, 11, Si, Silica Silica, Hydride Silice, Hydride, Silicea, Silicio, Silicium silicium De, Sodium Silicon,... dioxide
Aging depletes silica in the human body. Diatomaceous earth supplements help to replenish silica levels. Silica is one of the most vital minerals for the human body. The body will only absorb as much silica as it needs at any given moment, therefore, there is no risk of taking in too much silica. The body will naturally rid itself of whatever is not needed
The Best Silica Supplement. SilaLive Silica Supplement That is what you get with Silica. It is a Neobiogenic Compound available in liquid form called, SilaLive. When taken regularly it helps to cleanse the body of harmful minerals such as Aluminum that build up in the liver from the things we eat and drink.
What Is Silica SilaLive Supplement As a natural occurring element in the human body, silica is extremely abundant. It provides thousands of health benefits, not to mention that is also one of the most useful weight loss tools. Together with other nutrients, silica functions to bring by overall health improvement. Silalive is a pure neobiogenic complex that contains two forms of natural silica: diatomaceous earth (DME) and orthosilicic acid (OSA). The main purpose of the supplement is to provide our bodies with the right amount of natural silica to be able to reap its benefits.
There is no actual mineral called silica. Instead, silica is actually silicon dioxide, an active form of silica. Silica is needed to maintain the health of bodily tissues and to create collagen, which is why silica is so important for skin/bone health. Silicon is considered a macro-mineral and it has been categorized as such since the early 1970s.
Silica, like other essential minerals, is a natural substance that is vital for normal growth and development. Silica deficiency can have significant consequences to your body's well-being, which is why silica may be included in your multivitamin to ensure your intake of this mineral is sufficient. Deficiency. Taking a multivitamin containing silica helps ensure that you get adequate amounts of this mineral. However, a silica deficiency is uncommon because it is found in foods such as bananas, whole-grain bread, bran cereal, raisins, carrots, green beans and brown rice, according to Vital Health Zone.
Of the various diatomaceous earth and silica supplements, Silalive is the only one that has been specially formulated with both of the types of silica that the human body needs in order to maximize benefits. It stimulates the digestive tract, providing both detoxifying cleansing effects. Diatomaceous earth supplements help to replenish silica levels. Silica is one of the most vital minerals for the human body. The body will only absorb as much silica as it needs at any given moment, therefore, there is no risk of taking in too much silica.
Silica may just be one of the most overlooked minerals in terms of health benefits. Silica is most commonly found in nature as sand or quartz. In the human body, this chemical compound is what holds us together as it its a key element in the formation of collagen. SilaLive Silica Supplement That is what you get with Silica. It is a Neobiogenic Compound available in liquid form called, SilaLive. When taken regularly it helps to cleanse the body of harmful minerals such as Aluminum that build up in the liver from the things we eat and drink.
Benefits of Silica. Silica, also known as silicon dioxide, is important for the health and development of strong bones. It works with vitamin D and calcium, both of which are essential to bone maintenance. Silica is also a component in many different tissues including tendons, blood vessels, liver and kidneys. Deficiency. Taking a multivitamin containing silica helps ensure that you get adequate amounts of this mineral. However, a silica deficiency is uncommon because it is found in foods such as bananas, whole-grain bread, bran cereal, raisins, carrots, green beans and brown rice, according to Vital Health Zone.