To synthesize a protein, the mRNA corresponding to the sense strand of the DNA of a gene is first transcribed from that DNA, and then the mRNA is decoded by translation into a protein. The decoding uses a triplet code of nucleotides to specify individual amino acids. This rule is a simple one: nucleotide A pairs only with T and G only with C. To make mRNA, the coding strand of the DNA double helix is used as the template to polymerize the complementary bases into mRNA: if there is a C in the DNA there will be a G in the mRNA, if a T in the DNA then an A in the RNA, etc.
Transcription is the process by which DNA is copied (transcribed) to mRNA, which carries the information needed for protein synthesis. Transcription takes place in two broad steps. First, pre-messenger RNA is formed, with the involvement of RNA polymerase enzymes. The mRNA formed in transcription is transported out of the nucleus, into the cytoplasm, to the ribosome (the cell's protein synthesis factory). Here, it directs protein synthesis. Messenger RNA is not directly involved in protein synthesis − transfer RNA (tRNA) is required for this.
Best Answer: Messenger RNA carries the sequence of nucleotides that code for protein, from the nucleus to the cytoplasm. DNA can't because it is double stranded and can't fit into the nuclear pores, while mRNA is single stranded, uncoiled. Report Abuse. mRNA is the template strand for the production of protein tRNA is the transfer RNA that places the complementary codon (sequence of 3 complementary bases coding for an amino acid) based on the mRNA sequence.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) is the RNA that carries information from DNA to the ribosome, the sites of protein synthesis (translation) in the cell. The coding sequence of the mRNA determines the amino acid sequence in the protein that is produced. Messenger RNA (mRNA) carries information about a protein sequence to the ribosomes, the protein synthesis factories in the cell. It is coded so that every three nucleotides (a codon) correspond to one amino acid.
Confidence votes 65. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is a form of RNA that codes for amino acids. During transcription a sequence of mRNA is made from a corresponding sequence of DNA. In a eukaryote, the mRNA is then processed and sent outside the nucleus to be translated by a ribosome in the cytoplasm.
Report Abuse. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is RNA that encodes and carries information from DNA during transcription) to sites of protein synthesis to undergo translation in order to yield a gene product. mRNA life cycle. The brief life of an mRNAs begins with transcription and ultimately ends in degradation. [1] Anti-sense mRNA During transcription, double stranded DNA produces mRNA from the sense strand; the other, complementary, strand of DNA is termed anti-sense. Anti-sense mRNA is an RNA complementary in sequence to one or more mRNAs.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) is RNA that encodes and carries information from DNA during transcription) to sites of protein synthesis to undergo translation in order to yield a gene product. mRNA life cycle. [1] Anti-sense mRNA During transcription, double stranded DNA produces mRNA from the sense strand; the other, complementary, strand of DNA is termed anti-sense. Anti-sense mRNA is an RNA complementary in sequence to one or more mRNAs.
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene. The initiator methionine tRNA is the only aminoacyl-tRNA that can bind in the P site of the ribosome, and the A site is aligned with the second mRNA codon. The ribosome is thus ready to bind the second aminoacyl-tRNA at the A site, which will be joined to the initiator methionine by the first peptide bond (Figure 5).
As in DNA, mRNA genetic information is in the sequence of nucleotides, which are arranged into codons consisting of three bases each. Each codon encodes for a specific amino acid, except the stop codons, which terminate protein synthesis. During transcription, RNA polymerase makes a copy of a gene from the DNA to mRNA as needed. This process is similar in eukaryotes and prokaryotes.