louse. n, pl lice (laɪs) pl louses. 1. (Animals) any wingless bloodsucking insect of the order Anoplura: includes Pediculus capitis (head louse), Pediculus corporis (body louse), and the crab louse, all of which infest man. n. 1. pl. lice (līs) Any of numerous small, flat-bodied, wingless biting or sucking insects of the order Phthiraptera, which live as external parasites on birds and mammals, including humans. The lice are sometimes classified together with the psocids in the order Psocodea. 2. pl.
plural lice \ˈlīs\. : any of the small wingless usually flattened insects that are parasitic on warm-blooded animals and constitute the orders Anoplura and Mallophaga. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for louse
Noun [edit]. louse ‎(plural lice or louses). 1  A small parasitic wingless insect of the order Phthiraptera. ( 2 colloquial, dated, not usually used in plural form) A contemptible person; one who has recently taken an action considered deceitful or indirectly harmful. louse ‎(third-person singular simple present louses, present participle lousing, simple past and past participle loused). 1  To remove lice from the body of a person or animal; to delouse.
For the district of Diyarbakır Province in Turkey, see Lice, Turkey. For other uses, see Louse (disambiguation) . Louse (plural: lice) is the common name for the order Phthiraptera, which contains over 3,000 species of wingless insect; three of these species are agents of human disease, including typhus. Lice are obligate ectoparasites of every bird order, and every mammal order except for monotremes, bats, cetaceans and pangolins. Lice generally cannot survive for long if removed from their host. A louse's color varies from pale beige to dark gray; however, if feeding on blood, it may become considerably darker. Female lice are usually more common than the males, and some species are even known to be parthenogenetic.
The head louse (plural, lice) is scientifically known as Pediculus humanus capitis, and an infestation with head lice is medically known as Pediculosis capitis. There are a number of treatments that can effectively get rid of head lice—these include over-the-counter (OTC) products, natural products, and prescription medications. The advantage to some of the natural products is to avoid the potential safety issues of using insecticides on small children.
Most are found on only specific types of animals, and, in some cases, on only a particular part of the body; some animals are known to host up to fifteen different species, although one to three is typical for mammals, and two to six for birds. Lice generally cannot survive for long if removed from their host. A louse's color varies from pale beige to dark gray; however, if feeding on blood, it may become considerably darker. Female lice are usually more common than the males, and some species are even known to be parthenogenetic.
No, the word  its is a singular pronoun, the possessive form of it.   The plural form of the possessive pronoun its is theirs.   The plural form of the possessive … adjective its is their. A good thing to do, is to either use tea tree oil, you rub it into your scalp to kill the lice, keep in for 10 or so minutes, or buy some head lice fluid from the local pharma … cy, it is easy to use, just follow the instructions on the packet. Get a shampoo that kills them.
Medical Definition of LOUSE. : any of the small wingless usually flattened insects that are parasitic on warm-blooded animals and constitute the orders Anoplura and Mallophaga. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for louse
Of the multiple kinds of lice, there is only one vector of contagion: other people. You can get them from direct contact with the infected person, or by contact with their clothing, towels, bedclothes, hats, underwear, or really anything that lays up against their skin (depending somewhat on the type of louse). A good thing to do, is to either use tea tree oil, you rub it into your scalp to kill the lice, keep in for 10 or so minutes, or buy some head lice fluid from the local pharma … cy, it is easy to use, just follow the instructions on the packet. Get a shampoo that kills them.