They are the second most arid land classification after a desert. Grasslands are located in central North America, central Russia and Siberia, subequatorial Africa and South America, most of southern India, and Northern Australia. A grassland is any open area that is mostly arid in which grasses are the primary vegetation. The Midwest has lots of grasslands as well as Africa, Europe, and South America.
Well first of all the person asked for the location of grasslands not temperate forest so answer it correctly. Where the grasslands are located is in the United States. Grassland are located in North America, South America, Africa, Asia, and Australia. Grasslands take up the majority of the land in South America, Africa, and Australia. Temperate grasslands are kown as prairies in north America. Such grasslands extend to the west and south of the Canadian shield. They are bounded by the rocky mountains in the … west, the Appalachian mountains and the great lakes in the east, and a zone of plateaus and low hills in the south.
Grasslands go by many names. In the U.S. Midwest, they're known as prairies. In South America, they're called pampas. Central Eurasian grasslands are referred to as steppes, while in Africa they're named savannas. What they all have in common is grass as their naturally dominant vegetation. Grasslands are found where there is not enough regular rainfall to support the growth of a forest, but not so little as to form a desert. In fact, most grasslands are located between forests and desert
Trees and large shrubs are rarely found in grassland areas. There are many species of grasses that live in this biome, including, purple needlegrass, wild oats, foxtail, ryegrass, and buffalo grass. Many animals munch on these grasses, but they survive because the growth point on the grasses is very close to the ground. In Eurasia temperate grasslands are known as steppes and they are found between the Ukraine and Russia. In South America they are called pampas, and are located in Argentina and Uruguay. In South Africa temperate grasslands are known as veldts. WEATHER: Temperatures in this biome vary greatly between summer and winter.
There are two broad types of grasslands in temperate latitudes: Prairie and Steppe. Prairie grasslands. Prairie grasslands are found across the globe. They have a variety of names in other parts of the world: pampas in South America, veldt in South Africa and puszta in Hungary. 
Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest. In Eurasia temperate grasslands are known as steppes and they are found between the Ukraine and Russia. In South America they are called pampas, and are located in Argentina and Uruguay. In South Africa temperate grasslands are known as veldts. WEATHER: Temperatures in this biome vary greatly between summer and winter.
Grasslands are generally located between deserts and forests. The major temperate grasslands are located in central North America in the United States, in Southeast South America in Uruguay and Argentina, and in Asia along the southern portion of Russia and Mongolia. 
Climate Controls. Latitude is one of the climate controls because the grasslands are located all over the world, but they aren't too far from the equator. Land and water is one of the climate controls also because the grassland aren't located around the water too much
Grasslands are areas where the vegetation is dominated by grasses (Poaceae), however sedge (Cyperaceae) and rush (Juncaceae) families can also be found. Grasslands occur naturally on all continents except Antarctica. Grasslands are found in most ecoregions of the Earth. For example, there are five terrestrial ecoregion classifications (subdivisions) of the temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands biome (' ecosystem '), which is one of eight terrestrial ecozones of the Earth's surface. Notable tropical and subtropical grasslands include the Llanos grasslands of South America. Mid-latitude grasslands, including the Prairie and Pacific Grasslands of North America, the Pampas of Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, calcareous downland, and the steppes of Europe.