Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Concrete Patio! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Patio Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Patio ranges between $4.81 - $6.37 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. 
Do you need to know the average cost to install Concrete Patios in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Concrete Patio job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. 1 Concrete Patio cost estimates may require an onsite inspection. 2  Usually these estimates will be free. 3  You should expect any estimate to be presented with an in-depth sales pitch/presentation.
1 According to PaveTech, the average concrete patio will cost around $700 using pavers and doing all of the work independently. 2  When professional concrete contractors and excavators are used the costs will obviously climb substantially. 3  Traditionally, a patio at the size mentioned will cost roughly $2,000 to $4,000. For the patio installation, the typical costs include: 1  According to PaveTech, the average concrete patio will cost around $700 using pavers and doing all of the work independently. 2  The above figures place the patio installation at $21 per square foot
A concrete patio costs less than patios made of stone, brick, or tile. The simple truth is that patios made of natural materials are usually higher priced and require more intensive labor to install. Some concrete contractors estimate that a stamped concrete patio costs one-third less than the cost of other materials. The lower price tag combined with the wide array of patterns and colors available are some of the main draws of choosing a concrete patio. Below is a breakdown of the average patio pric
Basic concrete patio costs: $6 to $10 per square foot. Custom concrete patio costs: $10 to $15 per square foot. Advanced or complex designs: $15 or more per square foot. Average patio costs: $2,800 to $4,000. The average price that homeowners pay for a concrete patio is around $2,800 to just over $4,000, but some homeowners report spending as little as $1,000 or as much as $6,500. A custom design typically costs more because those projects involve more work.
Find a Patio Contractor in just 3-5 minutes. Tell us what you are looking for and receive free patio cost estimates without any obligation. We will use your information to match you with a concrete, stone, or brick paving contractor interested in helping you with your project.
The overall cost of a concrete patio depends on the design and size of the patio. Prices usually start at around $6 per square foot up to $10 per square foot for a basic design without any colors or special designs. Adding colors or a pattern to the design can increase the price to $15 per square foot. The average price that homeowners pay for a concrete patio is around $2,800 to just over $4,000, but some homeowners report spending as little as $1,000 or as much as $6,500. A custom design typically costs more because those projects involve more work.
1 The homewyse Concrete Patio cost estimates do not include costs for regrading or excavation, or demolition and removal of existing patio. 2  Higher priced Concrete Patios may include features/attributes that include better cure management, stronger surface, more uniform patio surface finishing and better warranty. 1 Concrete Patio cost estimates may require an onsite inspection. 2  Usually these estimates will be free. 3  You should expect any estimate to be presented with an in-depth sales pitch/presentation.