Those hormones perform what is called a feedback on the  hypothalamus which in turn secrete a group of other hormones called  Hypothalamic hormones into the anterior lobe of the pituitary  gland, through a certain system of ducts and capillaries called:  hypothalamic-hypophyseal portal system. With out these hormones the anterior pituitary couldn't modify its synthesis and secretion of the above hormones so the anterior pituitary gland is the main controller of the endocrine system in the analogy of the hypothalamus being the conductor of the endocrine orchestra.
Anterior pituitary. Most pituitary tumors begin in the larger, front part of the pituitary gland known as the anterior pituitary. This part of the gland makes several hormones that control other endocrine glands. 1  Growth hormone (GH, also known as somatotropin) promotes body growth during childhood. 
Pituitary Gland. The pituitary gland, or hypophysis, is about the size of a pea and sits in the small, bony cavity (sella turcica) at the base of the brain. The pituitary gland is divided into two sections: the anterior lobe (adenohypophysis) and the posterior lobe (neurohypophysis). The posterior pituitary is, in effect, a projection of the hypothalamus.
A major organ of the endocrine system, the anterior pituitary (also called the adenohypophysis or pars anterior), is the glandular, anterior lobe that together with the posterior lobe (posterior pituitary, or the neurohypophysis) makes up the pituitary gland (hypophysis). Hypothalamic Control. Hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland is regulated by releasing hormones secreted by the hypothalamus. Neuroendocrine cells in the hypothalamus project axons to the median eminence, at the base of the brain.
In this way, it initiates the menstrual cycle. The pituitary gland, also known as the hypophysis, is a small gland connected to the hypothalamus by a stalk (called the infundibulum). The pituitary has 2 major lobes: the posterior and anterior. 1  The posterior lobe is nerve tissue, and is really a downgrowth of the hypothalamus. 1 Since it is a part of the brain, and made of nervous tissue, it has direct nervous influence. 2  It activates, controls and integrates the autonomic nervous system, and. 3  since it also acts as a gland, it's endocrine activity produces and secretes certain hormones and releasing factors.
The anterior pituitary contains five types of endocrine cell, and they are defined by the hormones they secrete: somatotropes (GH); prolactins (PRL); gonadotropes (LH and FSH); corticotropes (ACTH) and thyrotropes (TSH). Hypothalamic Control. Hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland is regulated by releasing hormones secreted by the hypothalamus. Neuroendocrine cells in the hypothalamus project axons to the median eminence, at the base of the brain.
Anterior pituitary cells. The anterior pituitary is made up of a number of cell types that are essential for such physiological processes as growth, development, homeostasis, metabolism and reproduction. The term  acidophil  is used to describe two different types of cells: The term  basophil  is used include the following cell types: The cells destined to become the endocrine pituitary gland are located in the midline of the anterior neural ridge.
Looking from the embryonic development of the pituitary gland secretion of hormones from the anterior pituitary gland is under strict control of the hypothalamic hormone … s. The hypothalamus releases releasing and inhibiting hormones to the anterior lobe where they stimulate or inhibit hormone secretion. With out these hormones the anterior pituitary couldn't modify its synthesis and secretion of the above hormones so the anterior pituitary gland is the main controller of the endocrine system in the analogy of the hypothalamus being the conductor of the endocrine orchestra.
The pituitary gland is a pea-sized gland that sits in a protective bony enclosure called the sella turcica (Turkish chair/saddle). It is composed of three lobes: the anterior, intermediate, and posterior lobes. In many animals, these lobes are distinct. Hypothalamic Control. Hormone secretion from the anterior pituitary gland is regulated by releasing hormones secreted by the hypothalamus. Neuroendocrine cells in the hypothalamus project axons to the median eminence, at the base of the brain.