The head and the rear of the body is not segmented. The digestive system of species in this phylum runs the length of the body. Food is taken in at one end of the body and expelled at the other end. Annelids have two sets of muscles that help them move. There are about 15,000 species in this phylum. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and marine worms known as polychaetes. Species in this phylum have metameric bodies. Metameric bodies are divided into segments called annuli. The annuli are covered in tiny hairs called setae. Setae help the worms move.
Annelids are important components of their respective habitats, whether it be the bottom of freshwater or marine environments, or the soil. The feeding habits of many species are important in the decomposition of organic matter and recycling of nutrients in terrestrial and aquatic environments. Annelids, or true-segmented worms, are members of the animal phylum Annelida, the most complex of all wormlike groups of organisms. Annelids are commonly found in terrestrial, as well as marine, brackish, estuarine, and freshwater ecosystems worldwide.
Species in this phylum are found in all parts of the world. Some live in water, and some live on land. Burrowing annelids, like the earthworm, play an important role in helping organic matter decompose. Earthworms eat dead plants and animals. There are about 15,000 species in this phylum. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and marine worms known as polychaetes. Species in this phylum have metameric bodies. Metameric bodies are divided into segments called annuli. The annuli are covered in tiny hairs called setae. Setae help the worms move.
Annelid. Annelids, or true-segmented worms, are members of the animal phylum Annelida, the most complex of all wormlike groups of organisms. Annelids are commonly found in terrestrial, as well as marine, brackish, estuarine, and freshwater ecosystems worldwide.
The most important function of annelids, or earth worms, to their  ecological environment is to turn over the soil, making it  healthier for plant life. This is accomplished … both by their  burrowing habits and through eating and excreting dirt. An annelid is a segmented worm. An annelid is a type of worm with an oval-like body. They are in the phylum Annelida, which consists of about a thousand different types of wor … ms. This phylum also contains the earthworm.
The annelids (Annelida, from Latin anellus, little ring), also known as the ringed worms or segmented worms, are a large phylum, with over 17,000 extant species including ragworms, earthworms, and leeches. Annelids are considered members of the Lophotrochozoa, a super-phylum of protostomes that also includes molluscs, brachiopods, flatworms and nemerteans. The basic annelid form consists of multiple segments.
Decomposition and soil organic matter. Earthworms play an important role in breaking down dead organic matter in a process known as decomposition. This is what the earthworms living in your compost bin are doing and earthworms living in soils also decompose organic matter. Earthworms are also responsible for mixing soil layers and incorporating organic matter into the soil. Charles Darwin referred to earthworms as ‘nature’s ploughs’ because of this mixing of soil and
The most important function of annelids, or earth worms, to their  ecological environment is to turn over the soil, making it  healthier for plant life. This is accomplished … both by their  burrowing habits and through eating and excreting dirt. 12 people found this useful. Blu WikiAnswers. An annelid is a segmented worm. An annelid is a type of worm with an oval-like body. They are in the phylum Annelida, which consists of about a thousand different types of wor … ms. This phylum also contains the earthworm.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Earthworms, of the phylum Annelida are food for birds, and keep the soil aerated. Sometimes large earthworms are used for dissection in first-term Biology classes, to teach the understanding of basic internal organs. Leeches are also annelids, and help with healing wounds. An annelid is a segmented worm. An annelid is a type of worm with an oval-like body. They are in the phylum Annelida, which consists of about a thousand different types of wor … ms. This phylum also contains the earthworm.