Concrete Calculator. The Concrete Calculator can be used to estimate the volume and weight of the concrete you will need for the size, or area, of the land that needs to be covered. When purchasing, we suggest that you buy a little more than the calculated result.
Enter the depth, width and length of your concrete slab to calculate the number of cubic yards and concrete bags needed to complete your project.. Thickness: inches Width: feet Length: feet.
Sample Calculation. A large slab for a building foundation may be 60 feet long, 40 feet wide, and have a thickness of 6 inches. The area of the slab is 60 feet x 40 feet = 2,400 square feet. Converting the thickness measurement to 0.5 feet and multiplying the area by this yields a volume of 1,200 cubic feet.
Calculator courtesy of the concretenetwork.com. When estimating the amount of concrete for your concrete slab, it's important to check the level of the subgrade and come up with an average thickness. Most of the jobs I check, the dirt grade is rarely level. Using a laser level this can be done quite easily.
Atlanta Brick & Concrete in Atlanta, GA Use this concrete calculator as a quick and easy way to determine how much concrete you will need. Calculating the amount of Concrete Needed For Slabs(including odd shapes). Rule of thumb: add 1 / 4  to the thickness of your slab for your slab concrete budget.
Use the slab calculator to figure the concrete needed for the porch surface. Use the footing calculator to calculate the sides of the porch and the steps. Here is an example: This porch has 9 sq. feet of porch surface, so enter in the slab calculator 4 thickness by 3' width by 3' length.
Enter the dimensions below to calculate how many bags of concrete you need. After entering the dimensions of the pad, click on Calculate and the calculator will provide you with the amount of concrete.
To calculate the volume of concrete you need, you must measure the surface area of the slab and multiply this by the thickness of the slab. You usually measure the length and width of the slab in feet, thus giving you a value for area in square feet when you multiply them, but you usually measure thickness in inches.