1 Mount Elbert is not only the highest mountain and highest Fourteener in Colorado but is also the highest mountain in the 3,000-mile-long Rocky Mountains, a mountain chain which stretches from Canada to Mexico. 1 Mount Elbert is also the second highest peak in the contiguous lower 48 states after 14,505-foot Mount Whitney in California and is the fourth most prominent peak in the lower 48 states. 2  Mount Elbert is named for Samuel Hitt Elbert, the territorial governor of Colorado in 1873.
Grays Peak is the highest peak of the Front Range and the tenth highest peak of the Rocky Mountains. 20. Pikes Peak is the second most topographically prominent mountain peak of Colorado. 25. 10. Grays Peak is the highest peak of the Front Range and the tenth highest peak of the Rocky Mountains. 20. Pikes Peak is the second most topographically prominent mountain peak of Colorado. 25. This photograph of the legendary Mount of the Holy Cross was taken by William Henry Jackson in 1874.
Main article: List of mountain peaks of Colorado. See also: List of Colorado fourteeners and List of the most prominent summits of Colorado. Mount Elbert in the Sawatch Range is the highest peak of the Rocky Mountains and the highest point in the U.S. State of Colorado. 10. Grays Peak is the highest peak of the Front Range and the tenth highest peak of the Rocky Mountains. 20. Pikes Peak is the second most topographically prominent mountain peak of Colorado. 25. This photograph of the legendary Mount of the Holy Cross was taken by William Henry Jackson in 1874.
West of the Front Range is the Park Range which stretches from a point near the Wyoming border in north to the Arkansas River in central Colorado. South of the Park Range is the Sawatch Range where you'll find the highest peak in the Rocky Mountains; Mount Elbert (14,433 feet). The San Juan Mountain Range lies in the southwestern part of the Colorado Rockies. Only 371 square miles of Colorado are covered by water. Highest Point. The highest point in Colorado, and in the Rocky Mountains, is Mt. Elbert at 14,440 feet above sea level. Colorado is home to more mountains 14,000 feet or higher than any other state.
Some of the Colorado's best-known fourteeners include the tallest, Mount Elbert; Pikes Peak, which inspired the poem America the Beautiful; and Longs Peak, which resides inside Rocky Mountain National Park. 
1. Mount Elbert is the tallest mountain in Colorado, coming in at 14,440 feet. It's also the second-highest peak in the contiguous United States. With such honors, you can imagine that the Sawatch Range peak is popular with climbers and hikers. Mount Elbert. Mount Elbert is the tallest mountain in Colorado, coming in at 14,440 feet. It's also the second-highest peak in the contiguous United States. With such honors, you can imagine that the Sawatch Range peak is popular with climbers and hikers.
The San Juan Mountains in southern Colorado. The San Juan Mountains are a high and rugged mountain range in the Rocky Mountains in southwestern Colorado, and is the largest mountain range in Colorado by area. The area is highly mineralized (the Colorado Mineral Belt) and figured in the gold and silver mining industry of early Colorado. 
The Rocky Mountains are notable for containing the highest peaks in central North America. The range's highest peak is Mount Elbert located in Colorado at 14,440 feet (4,401 m) above sea level. Mount Robson in British Columbia, at 12,972 feet (3,954 m), is the highest peak in the Canadian Rockies. 