Overview. The red Abyssinian banana (Ensete ventricosum) is a cousin of the banana plant. It grows outdoors in USDA hardiness zones 9 and 10, which includes the areas of the United States where the temperature does not drop below 20 degrees Fahrenheit. The tree can grow from 8 to 20 feet tall. Fertilize the Abyssinian banana with a banana fertilizer. This may be difficult to find in stores. Alternatively, look for a fertilizer with the numbers 6-2-12 on it. This means that the fertilizer contains six percent nitrogen, two percent phosphorus and 12 percent potassium, with other fertilizer products within.
Musa ensete (Ensete ventricosum) grows 8 to 15 feet tall with leaves that grow up to 10 feet long. A relative of the banana plant, Musa ensete is commonly called Abyssinian banana. Planted around water features and as a specimen plant, this lush foliage plant adds a tropical look to the garden.
Partner plants. Ensete maurelii is usually the most massive as well as the tallest warm-weather plant in the garden. It looks like a stunt if partnered with plantings that are ordinary either in species or size. They, in turn, will just look puny and out-gunned. 
This clumping banana plant reaches 20 feet tall and 10 feet wide with 9-foot-long leaves. The drooping flower stalks are covered with showy powdery purple bracts. Abyssinian banana (Ensete ventricosum) is from Africa. Most of the family grows 15 to 20 feet tall and 10 to 15 feet wide. The 10 to 20-foot-long leaves are 2 to 4 feet wide. The dark green leaves have thick midribs that hold the giant leaves upright.
Publisert 20. jul. 2013. How to grow Bananas: The Abyssinian Banana-Ensete maurelii Red Banana Care Tips. Winter hardy to USDA Zones 10-11. On Vancouver Island Zone 8b plants may be grown outdoors during the growing season and must be brought indoors for overwintering or they will not survive. 
10 Pot-Ships in 10 nursery pot, 18-24 inches in height. Ensete maurelii 'Red Abyssinian Banana' - The Ensete maurelii is also called Red Abyssinian Banana. This is a huge ornamental plant with leaves up to 10 feet long. The maurelii is a fantastically colorful plant with red leaf surfaces and red leaf axils. Looks like it has been hand painted. Plant grows to 18 feet in warm climates. In Zone 9 rarely reaches 8 feet
Add to Cart: Plants for sale are Ensete Maurelii 4 deep pots, plants are between 4- 24 tall They grow fast!! Each plant is grown from tissue cultures to be a disease free exact replica of the mother plant. The Ensete maurelii is also called Red Abyssinian Banana. This is a huge ornamental plant with leaves up to 10 feet long. The maurelii is a fantastically colorful plant with red leaf surfaces and red leaf axils. Plant grows to 15 feet. This banana does not produce suckers and is very fast growing. 
The hardy fiber banana tree (Musa basjoo) grows huge bright green leaves 6 feet long and 2 feet wide that split and fold over. Golden cream flowers appear in the summer followed by tiny inedible bananas full of seeds. The stem is 12 inches wide supporting a 15-foot-tall tree spreading 8 to 10 feet wide. Abyssinian banana (Ensete ventricosum) is from Africa. Most of the family grows 15 to 20 feet tall and 10 to 15 feet wide. The 10 to 20-foot-long leaves are 2 to 4 feet wide. The dark green leaves have thick midribs that hold the giant leaves upright.
Description [edit]. Like bananas, Ensete ventricosum is large non-woody plant — a gigantic monocarpic evergreen perennial herb (not a tree) — up to 6 m (20 ft) tall. It has a stout pseudostem of tightly overlapping leaf bases, and large banana-like leaf blades of up to 5 m (16 ft) tall by 1 m (3 ft 3 in) wide, with a salmon-pink midrib. Ensete ventricosum, commonly known as the Ethiopian banana, Abyssinian banana, false banana, or ensete, is an herbaceous species of flowering plant in the genus Ensete of the banana family Musaceae. The name Ensete ventricosum was first published in 1948 in the Kew Bulletin, 1947, p. 101.