In contrast to loss of mineralocorticoids, failure to produce glucocorticoids is not acutely life-threatening. Nevertheless, loss or profound diminishment of glucocorticoid secretion leads to a state of deranged metabolism and an inability to deal with stressors which, if untreated, is fatal.
Drugs with glucocorticoid activity are compounds that have similar effects to the natural steroid hormones produced by the adrenal cortex. While glucocorticoid drugs are steroids, they are unlike the anabolic steroids that some athletes take to build up and increase their muscle mass.
Glucocorticoids are potent anti-inflammatory agents and their administration results in a wide range of effects on inflammatory and immunologically mediated disease processes. The precise mechanisms by which glucocorticoids impair the human immune response are unknown.
Common glucocorticoids include prednisone, dexamethasone, and hydrocortisone. While glucocorticoids are widely used as drugs to treat various inflammatory conditions, prolonged glucocorticoid use may have adverse side effects such as immunosuppression, fluid shifts, brain changes, and psychological changes.
● In endocrine practice, glucocorticoids are given only to establish the diagnosis and cause of Cushing's syndrome and for treatment of adrenal insufficiency and congenital adrenal hyperplasia. ● Pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids are used to treat patients with inflammatory, allergic, immunological disorders.
Many modern health problems involve inflammation. When the immune system goes into action, inflammation can get out of control and cause damage or pain. Glucocorticoids are chemicals that can stop inflammation, but they have many side effects and risks. Inflammation is the source of many illnesses. Autoimmune diseases and allergies are caused by inappropriate reactions of the immune system. Redness and swelling are hallmarks of
Natural glucocorticoids are steroid hormones with powerful anti-inflammatory effects produced by the human body. Glucocorticoid drugs are usually synthetic compounds that have anti-inflammatory effects similar to those of natural glucocorticoids. Natural glucocorticoids are produced by the cortex of the adrenal gland. The adrenal glands are organs located immediately above our kidneys (ad = top of, renal = kidney).