First, they depend on the total calories being correct and adequate. For example, if I told you to aim for 50% of your calories from carbs, and 30% from protein, but you only eat 1500 calories per day and not the 2500 you need (hypothetically), your intake of these important nutrients would be deficient. This can negatively affect your training. 
4-Carbs=if have either type II or type I diabetes no more than 250 grams per day. Carbs are not as easy to be able to give a ratio per pound. Carbs are build on the sense that once you have your daily calories and you have used the calories for protein, and fat you will have about 48 to 50% left for calories. I would recommend 40% carbs, 30% protein, 30% fat. Many of my clients (and myself included) find that with a bit more protein and fat we tend to feel fuller longer. Plus, as clients lose weight they want to retain as much muscle as possible, which a higher protein intake can assist with
I often get asked what proportion of calories from fat, carbs, and protein is best for weight loss. There is no one right answer to this question. As long as your total calories intake is less than your total calories expended, you will lose weight. Atkins dieters were eating an average of 32% carbs, 46% fat, and 22% protein. It is striking that all four groups eventually drifted to nearly the same protein percentage – somewhere between 19-22% calories from protein.
AMDRs are percentages of your total daily calorie intake that should come from carbohydrates, protein and fat. Based on these guidelines, you should consume between 45 and 65 percent of your daily calories from carbohydrates and 10 to 35 percent of your calories from protein. For a 2,000-calorie diet, this means consuming 225 to 325 grams of carbs and 50 to 175 grams of protein each day. Protein RDAs are 46 grams per day for women, 56 grams per day for men and 71 grams each day for pregnant and nursing women. Regardless of the protein and carb balance that’s appropriate for your individual needs, aim to consume at least the RDA for protein and carbs each day.
Photo Credit amanaimagesRF/amana images/Getty Images. Macronutrients -- the big three of protein, carbohydrates and fat -- are the cornerstone of any dietary plan. The U.S. Department of Agriculture notes that all three are important to your health, but balance is important. The best ratio for you depends on age. The proportion of carbohydrate is also the same for adults, but protein should be 10 percent to 35 percent of the total food intake, and fat should be 20 percent to 35 percent. You Might Also Like.
Still, many people focused on their diets focus on a proper carb protein fat ratio. People disagree on what the proper ratio is, but most agree it is 40-45% carbohydrates or carbs, 25-30% protein and 30-35% fat each day. I came here searching for the ratio because I eat about 50 percent carbs, 25 percent fat, 25 percent protein and wanted to see if that is healthy, normal, whatever. You provided a lot more information about the nutrients.
You're going to hear anywhere from 45-35 for carbs, 45-30 for protein and 30-20 for fat. Some professional lean toward the USDA recommendations, other toward athletic regimens and the most sever would be from bodybuilders and fitness competitors. I would recommend 40% carbs, 30% protein, 30% fat. Many of my clients (and myself included) find that with a bit more protein and fat we tend to feel fuller longer. Plus, as clients lose weight they want to retain as much muscle as possible, which a higher protein intake can assist with