Louisiana Special Plates. This site allows you to view Special Plates and calculate the cost to convert from your current plate to a Special plate. 1  Please be sure that you have properly titled and registered the vehicle in your name. 2  Have your current registration available to enter and verify vehicle information. 1 Special plate fees vary. 2  Special plate fees calculated on this site are valid for regular license plates only. 3  Click here to View the locations where you may purchase Special Plates. 4  To contact the Specialized Vehicle Unit you may call (225) 925-6371 or call 1-225-925-6146 for assistance.
Civil Action. 1  A person obtaining Motor Vehicle record information for any permitted use who resells or re-discloses the information must maintain records of any entity or person that received the information and the permitted use for which it was obtained for a period of not less than 5 years. 1 A person who knowingly obtains, discloses or uses personal information, from a motor vehicle record, for a purpose not permitted under the Federal Driver Privacy Protection Act shall be liable to the individual to whom the information pertains, who may bring a civil action in a United States district court.
Louisiana DMV Office Contact Information. While many Louisiana DMV services are available online, there are some that require you to visit physical Louisiana DMV locations. Luckily, the Louisiana Department of Motor Vehicles has numerous offices around the state. However, not all locations for the DMV in Louisiana provide the same services. Many locations offer basic licensing and vehicle services, such as renewing or replacing drivers licenses, and renewing car registrations. 
After successfully completing the Notice of Vehicle Transfer on our web site, regular automobile license plates should be destroyed by the seller. Truck and trailer plates may stay with the vehicle and be transferred to the new owner. Special prestige license plates may be kept by the seller. 
Please enter your zip code, OR city and state abbreviation. The Louisiana Office of Motor Vehicles (OMV) oversees the issuance of all driver licenses and handles all motor vehicle titling and registration matters. Consult the official state site for details regarding: 1  Locations and hours. 2  Phone numbers. 3  Office closures. 4  Holiday schedule. 
1 Click here to View the locations where you may purchase Special Plates. 2  To contact the Specialized Vehicle Unit you may call (225) 925-6371 or call 1-225-925-6146 for assistance. 3  DISCLAIMER: Prices subject to change without notice. 1 Special plate fees vary. 2  Special plate fees calculated on this site are valid for regular license plates only. 3  Click here to View the locations where you may purchase Special Plates. 4
The Louisiana Used Motor Vehicle Commission is the state governmental regulatory authority that licenses the used motor vehicle industry and investigates consumer complaints involving the sale of used motor vehicles. 
1 Please be sure that you have properly titled and registered the vehicle in your name. 2  Have your current registration available to enter and verify vehicle information. 3  Certain Special Plates have specific qualifications and eligibility requirements which must be met. 1 Special plate fees vary. 2  Special plate fees calculated on this site are valid for regular license plates only. 3  Click here to View the locations where you may purchase Special Plates. 4  To contact the Specialized Vehicle Unit you may call (225) 925-6371 or call 1-225-925-6146 for assistance.
Louisiana Office of Motor Vehicles Driver Reinstatement Status. This service allows you to view any reinstatement issues or flags that would prevent drivers license or vehicle registration transactions from being processed. 1 A person who knowingly obtains, discloses or uses personal information, from a motor vehicle record, for a purpose not permitted under the Federal Driver Privacy Protection Act shall be liable to the individual to whom the information pertains, who may bring a civil action in a United States district court.
A: The Office of Motor Vehicles in Shreveport is situated at 9310 Normandie Drive and can be approached via the I-20. When travelling west on it, one should take the south exit of the I-49 and then the 3132 Interloop west exit. 