Baby names meanings search results: The name Kian is a baby boy name. The name Kian comes from the Gaelic origin. In Gaelic The meaning of the name Kian is: ancient.
Kian /kian/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Kian means ancient; God is gracious. Kian is a variant transcription of Cian (Irish, Gaelic). Kian is also a variation of Keon (Irish, Hebrew): version of Ewan. Charted below is the birth name popularity of Kian for boys. Kian entered the list in 2000 and reached its top rank of #494 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Cian and Keon are the prominent alternative forms of Kian (#494 the previous year) ranked in the Top 1000.
What does Kian mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kian is of Irish origin. The meaning of Kian is ancient. It is also of Gaelic origin, where its meaning is ancient, distant and Persian origin, where its meaning is the kings, royal. Kian is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ki-an. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 494 in baby name popularity for boys with 565 occurrences. It ranked 13745 in popular baby names for girls with 7 occurrences. View the Kian Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kian has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kian to other names. Kian is a variant spelling of Cian. Kian falls into the royal title name category
Gaelic Meaning: The name Kian is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Kian is: Ancient. American Meaning: The name Kian is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kian is: Ancient. Irish Meaning: The name Kian is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kian is: Archaic. Welsh Meaning: The name Kian is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Kian is: Legendary father of Lugh.
Kian is a rare first name for males but a somewhat popular surname for all people (#105905 out of 150436, Top 70%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Kian for boys. Kian entered the list in 2000 and reached its top rank of #494 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Cian and Keon are the prominent alternative forms of Kian (#494 the previous year) ranked in the Top 1000.
Show similar names Show variant names. Name Kian generally means Ancient or Distant, is of English, Iranian (Persian), Indian origin, Name Kian is a Masculine (or Boy) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Christian or Muslim by religion. 
(If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning). The different meanings of the name Kian are: The meaning of the name “Kian” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Kian. Kian is a modern anglicized variation of the Irish masculine name Cian which comes from the Gaelic meaning “ancient, enduring”. Cian was borne by the son-in-law of the early 11th century High King of Ireland Brian Boru. Popularity of the Name Kian. Although Cian is an “ancient” Irish name, Kian is a 21st century masculine name for Americans, first appearing on the U.S. charts in the year 2000. The name has climbed ever so slowly up the boy’s chart but may be leveling off at below average usage. It’s really too early to tell.