Tapping and clogging are both based on European folk dances that were brought to the U.S. in the 1700s and 1800s by settlers from England, Ireland and Scotland. But once here, the two dances evolved in different ways. Tap is an urban artform. 
by Ruth Pershing-The Cane Creek Cloggers. Clogging is an expressive style of American dance with origins in the folk dances of the British Isles, Africa, and pre-Columbian America. Settlers in the American South took elements of these styles to form a unique American dance style, Appalachian clog dancing. Clogging is thought of by many as an age-old dance form steeped in the rich culture of isolated mountain hollers, maintained alongside ballads, folk tales, and fiddle tunes. In actuality, it is not the least bit static and has quite a complex and multi-faceted history.
One of clog dancing's most renowned founders, Bascom Lamar Lunsford of Asheville, North Carolina, helped to popularize the art of team clogging by adding it as a category of competition in the annual Mountain Dance and Folk Festival held in Asheville during the late 1920's. Accompanied by rousing fiddle and bluegrass music, clogging was a means of personal expression in a land of newfound freedoms. Clogging is a dance that is done in time with the music-to the downbeat usually with the heel keeping rhythm.
Clogging is often considered the first form of street dance because it evolved in urban environments during the industrial revolution. As the clogging style has evolved over the years, many localities have made contributions by adding local steps and rhythms to the style. The dance has origins in Wales and England. In the fifteenth century the all-wooden clog was replaced by a leather-topped shoe with a one-piece wooden bottom. In later periods it was not always called clogging, being known variously as flatfooting, foot-stomping, buck dancing, clog dancing, jigging, or other local terms. What all these had in common was emphasising the downbeat of the music by enthusiastic footwork.
Clogging is an American form of dance that somewhat resembles tap dancing. (Clogging was actually a forerunner to tap.) Clogging shoes look similar to tap shoes (cloggers do not wear wooden shoes, as many people believe!), except that they have two taps nailed together instead of just one. Clogging originated in the Appalachian Mountains. In the mid 1700s, settlers new to America would get together in the evenings and share their countries' folk songs and dances. The different dances from around the world combined to form an impromptu-style, rhythmic dance, which we now refer to as clogging.
Clogging is a type of folk dance in which the dancer's footwear is used musically by striking the heel, the toe, or both against a floor or each other to create audible percussive rhythms, usually to the downbeat with the heel keeping the rhythm. In later periods it was not always called clogging, being known variously as flatfooting, foot-stomping, buck dancing, clog dancing, jigging, or other local terms. What all these had in common was emphasising the downbeat of the music by enthusiastic footwork.
What is CLOGGING? It s a kind of historically developed folk-dance incorporating additional tap-dancing steps as a special feature. In order to emphasize the rhythm of the steps, the dancers wear shoes that are stud with iron taps on both heels and toes. With this new interest in folk music, the popularity of folk dancing naturally started growing again as well. Visitors participating in folk festivals in the Appalachians territories got aware of a in some parts still-native dance, Clog Dance, and this is where the new history of CLOGGING starts.
North Carolina designated clogging as the official state folk dance in 2005. Clogging (the name originates from the Gaelic word for time) is a distinctive dance style which originated in the Appalachian mountains. In the 1920's Bascom Lamar Lunsford added team clogging to the competitions held at his annual Mountain Dance and Folk Festival in AshevilleIn, helping to establish clogging as a significant part of Appalachian cultural heritage. North Carolina also recognizes a popular dance as a state symbol (the shag).
One of clog dancing’s most renowned founders, Bascom Lamar Lunsford of Asheville, North Carolina, helped to popularise the art of team clogging by adding it as a category of competition in the annual Mountain Dance and Folk Festival held in Asheville during the late 1920’s. 