Answer by Sara89 (367). Pigeon eggs take approximately 15 to 18 days to hatch, with a mean average of 16.75 days. A typical clutch includes two eggs, and they are laid two days apart. add a comment. 
Location: SE Coast Central Florida. Posts: 24,121. They take 18 days to hatch usually, but the temperature can be a factor and eggs may hatch a day or two later if it is cold. They will begin to walk around at 3 weeks and start trying their wings between 3 to 4 weeks of age. Posts: 4,102. Will hatch in 18 days if fertile. You have 3 more days. It will take another 4 weeks for the babies to grow and get wean. The parent might still feed the babies for another 1-2 weeks. They are barely flying at 4 weeks old (short takeoff).
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. How long does it take a pigeon egg to hatch? The normal incubation period is 17 days regardless of outside  temperature. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if  temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then … it will hatch in almost  two weeks otherwise it will take more time.
Posts: 140. As a rule it takes about 3 weeks, or 21 days for the eggs to hatch. And you will also see that if there's two eggs that hatch, one squab will grow up to resemble the mother and the other will grow up to resemble the father. Good Luck! how long does it take for a pigeon egg to hatch?! i was wondering how long does it take for a pigeon egg to hatch?! __________________.
Report Abuse. Hi, Pigeons lay two white egg in a clutch, each egg takes 18 days to hatch. The parents will start to incubate the first egg for two days, then she'll lay the second egg. This means the first egg will always hatch two days before the other. 
The female may sit on the nest a day or two before the first egg is laid. Generally 2 white eggs are laid. Both the male and female will incubate the eggs although the female does the incubation during the night. Incubation last for about 18 days and the young will leave the nest in 25 to 29 days after hatching. P.s.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then it will hatch in almost two weeks otherwise it will take more time. In case of abandon eggs by their parents himself means that egg is dead otherwise u can also help them in hatch by maintaining the humidity and temperature.
The normal incubation period is 17 days regardless of outside temperature. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then it will hatch in almost two weeks otherwise it will take more time. In case of abandon eggs by their parents himself means that egg is dead otherwise u can also help them in hatch by maintaining the humidity and temperature.