Shark Sonic Duo has been around for almost 1 year, but most people are still unaware about the great cleaning power of this product. The system scrubs dirt out of every floor, carpet or rug. Shark uses special cleaning solutions, different for carpets and hardwood floor, in order to enhance the power of this machine. I’ve had the Shark Sonic Duo for a couple of weeks now, so I’ve decided to make a review. Right here I’m going to try to give you the most comprehensive guide possible, and see if I can cover all the necessary details, features, as well as all the benefits and queries I’ve noted about this item since I unpacked it.
Return Policy. The Shark Sonic Duo promises a quick, powerful, and EASY way to remove stuck on dirt that holds allergens & odors from carpets, area rugs, and hard floors. It is a Total Floor Care System that cares for, cleans, and finishes all hard floor surfaces AND carpets. You will have a FUN and EASY way to clean your floors with the power of two scrubbing heads that do the work for you. The Sonic Duo does all of the hard work so that you don’t have to. Stop scrubbing your floors and attack them with the power of Shark’s revolutionary Sonic Duo.
Get your home cleaner than clean with the Shark Sonic Duo Professional Carpet and Hard Floor Cleaner. It even comes with reusable pads and a bevy of cleaning solutions to get you started right out of the box. Don't miss your chance to get this popular cleaning device at an amazing price! From Shark. In fact, due to its innovative sonic technology, the Shark Sonic Duo helps remove up to four times more stuck-on dirt than vacuuming alone. It even helps to reduce the time and effort it takes to clean your floors, so you can spend more time doing the things you love.
The Shark Sonic Duo is now firmly part of my cleaning arsenal, and I can look forward to floors that are visibly cleaner and healthier. I recommend this product to people that have lots of hardwood floors, it does wonders with the polishing feature. I’ve had the Shark Sonic Duo for a couple of weeks now, so I’ve decided to make a review. Right here I’m going to try to give you the most comprehensive guide possible, and see if I can cover all the necessary details, features, as well as all the benefits and queries I’ve noted about this item since I unpacked it.
About.com Rating. The Shark Sonic Duo is not a steam mop, nor is it a steam carpet cleaner. In fact it doesn't use steam at all, but utilizes cool water and solution combined with a scrubbing action to clean all floors. I was most anxious to try it out. Product Despcription. 1  Shark® Sonic Duo™ Carpet & Hard Floor Cleaner 613A. 
First, you have to understand that the Shark Sonic Duo is not a vacuum cleaner. The is no vacuum what so ever. In fact, if you are planing to clean carpets and staircases, the best results you can get with this tool appear if you pre-vacuum the areas (using a regular vacuum cleaner). I’ve had the Shark Sonic Duo for a couple of weeks now, so I’ve decided to make a review. Right here I’m going to try to give you the most comprehensive guide possible, and see if I can cover all the necessary details, features, as well as all the benefits and queries I’ve noted about this item since I unpacked it.
For this review, I’m going to tell you about the Shark Sonic Duo. You may come across the model number ZZ550 as well which refers to the same product. Before you use this product on any of your floor surfaces, you will still need to vacuum first. Shark has really gone one step further (if not at least three) with the solutions they offer with this floor cleaner. Here’s what you get. 1  Concentrated hard floor and wood cleaner. 2  This is a non-streak formula and you get 7 bottles worth of solution with the product.