Calculate The Cost Of Your Own Trip. Accommodations-Prices for hotels vary greatly in Orlando and if you are looking to save some money your choice of hotel is probably the best place to cut for you since you are not going to be in your room that much. You can find nice 3 star hotels for around $44 to $70 a night. Meals. There is no free breakfast or way to prepare meals at most hotels. The only way to save on food for the family who opts out of a vacation home or townhome is to bring snacks to the park. The average family will have to buy 3 meals a day on their trip and most meals will cost an average of $15 each.
How to Enjoy Orlando on a Budget. Orlando, Florida has long been one of the most popular vacation destinations in the United States, especially with families and honeymooners. 
If you eat all your meals on the Disney lot you will probably have to spend more like $200 for 3 meals and drinks a day. If you have a car you could go out and eat some of your meals away from the Disney lot (there are loads of places on the 192). Now you would have to leave a tip on the table service meal so add about another $20 per day. But with the dining plan, you get a counter service meal, a table service meal and a snack per person per night. I was just looking at this for my family the other night.
The easiest way to save the most on your vacation is to go with a large party to save on accommodations. A vacation home that houses 10 people per night for $99 a night is only $10 per person per night. If you are a family of 3 in a $60 hotel room you will be paying 2x as much per night per person. Want To Know. Meals. There is no free breakfast or way to prepare meals at most hotels. The only way to save on food for the family who opts out of a vacation home or townhome is to bring snacks to the park. The average family will have to buy 3 meals a day on their trip and most meals will cost an average of $15 each.
So, for about $134 dollars a day (see below quote), you get two meals and a snack. W/out the plan-if you average $15 per overpriced entree-then you are looking at $150 per day w/out drinks, or snacks. If u go off property, u r missing fun and paying extra gas....... Good luck and have fun! Now you would have to leave a tip on the table service meal so add about another $20 per day. But with the dining plan, you get a counter service meal, a table service meal and a snack per person per night. I was just looking at this for my family the other night.
$ 19.74. About these numbers. The state of Florida, known for sunshine, warm weather, beaches, and Disney World, has much to offer. Orlando and its world-famous parks such as Disney, Epcot, Universal Studios, MGM, Sea World, and more draw massive amounts of visitors every year, and for a good reason. Florida is more than just Disney, however, the state has many other attractions and cities worth visiting.
While eating out in America (especially Orlando) is often great value for money, it is easy for the costs to pile up quite considerably, not just with the main meals of the day, but also with drinks and snacks. In many cases, even a ‘cheap’ burger, chips and a drink type meal can cost up to $15 per person. With two adults and three children, a basic lunch in a theme park can cost $50 or more for counter service. Multiply that over 14 days and you start to get an idea of the overall costs involved. 
Food is really dependent on what you like to eat. If you are planning on having any really nice meals in a park or at one of the resort hotels, plan on about $50 a person. If you are planing on only eating fast food in the parks; plan on about $10 for breakfast, $10-15 for lunch/dinner, this is per person.