Summary: 1.A neuron is an individual cell, whereas, a group of neurons form a nerve. 2.There are two types of neurons ‘“ sensory and motor neurons; while there are three types of nerves ‘“ afferent, efferent and mixed nerves. The soma is the central part of the neuron, and the nucleus is found within the soma. Dendrites form extensions from the neuron, and axons are the extensions from the soma. Axons are fine structures, and they vary in number from hundreds to thousands.
Nerve vs. Neuron. Although nerve and neuron may sound similar to most people, they are, in fact, two different components of the body. However, they are closely related, as nerves are actually projections of neurons. There are three main types of nerves: Afferent nerves, efferent nerves and mixed nerves. The soma is the central part of the neuron, and the nucleus is found within the soma. Dendrites form extensions from the neuron, and axons are the extensions from the soma. Axons are fine structures, and they vary in number from hundreds to thousands.
The cells of the nervous system are generally of two types, neurons or glial cells, with each contributing different functions to the nervous system. Neurons act to receive, sustain, and transmit electrochemical signals throughout the nervous system, that is from one neuron to another. Nerve Impluses [edit]. There is a difference in electrical charge between the inside and the outside of the nerve cell which varies due to positively and negatively charged ions, which add up to result in the voltage of the neuron and its membrane potential.
A nerve is composed of one or more long nerve fibers called axons, that connect nerve cells to other parts of the body which may be as much as several feet distant from the nerve cells. The nerves are composed of nerve cells called NEURONS. … A neuron is composed of the body which has NUCLEUS inside, long extension branch called AXON (which is surrounded by MYELIN in some nerves), short extension branches called DENDRITES and SYNAPTIC TERMINAL. 2.
Answer   A neuron (or neurone) is an individual cell of the nervous system. Neurons communicate with one another and other tissues through long processes that exten … d from their cell bodies. There are different names for these processes; some are called dendrites, others are called axons. The nerves are composed of nerve cells called NEURONS. … A neuron is composed of the body which has NUCLEUS inside, long extension branch called AXON (which is surrounded by MYELIN in some nerves), short extension branches called DENDRITES and SYNAPTIC TERMINAL. 2.
3.Nerves are found in the peripheral nervous system, while neurons are found in the brain, spinal cord and the peripheral nerves. 4.A neuron can also be called a neurone or a nerve cell. 5.Neurons conduct nerve impulses, while nerves transmit information to various parts of the body. The soma is the central part of the neuron, and the nucleus is found within the soma. Dendrites form extensions from the neuron, and axons are the extensions from the soma. Axons are fine structures, and they vary in number from hundreds to thousands.
Nerve. A nerve, on the other hand, is a bundle of axons or dendrites wrapped in connective tissue that conveys impulses between the central nervous system and some other parts of the body. A typical nerve has a tough outer covering, epineurium. Interposed between the receptors and effectors are the conductile cells of the nervous system, the neurons. These are the basic structural and functional units of the nervous system and ramify throughout an organism, forming an elaborate communication network.
Tweet. Key Difference: Neurons are specialized cells which are capable of transmitting signals between different parts of the body. Nerve is a bundle of fibers composed of neurons. Therefore, neurons and nerves are closely related. The extensions of neurons are known as axon and dendrites. A neuron usually has many dendrites bur only one axon. Nerves are basically tight bundles of nerve fibers. All neurons possess a cell body and one or more fibers. These fibers are of different sizes.
Neuron. Interposed between the receptors and effectors are the conductile cells of the nervous system, the neurons. These are the basic structural and functional units of the nervous system and ramify throughout an organism, forming an elaborate communication network.