Cage or aviary requirements for multiple budgies are a little different. Always buy a bird cage larger than you think you will need to prevent overcrowding. Crowded conditions can lead to several problems. Aggression is more likely to occur if the less dominant parakeets cannot escape from dominant parakeets. A minimum cage size is 24 by 24 inches with 1/4-inch bar spacing so the budgie cannot fit its head through the bars. Birds spend just about every minute of every day on their feet. Be sure to give your parakeet at least three perches, with at least one made of natural wood.
Although sometimes difficult to understand, Budgies can also learn to mimic speech. Bird Cages 4 Less has a variety of small bird cages with 1/2” bar spacing just perfect for housing your Budgie or other small Parakeet. 
Well there are some fairly basic rules to help you with your decision. Firstly you need to make sure the cage is safe for your pet. Then you can think about necessary features such as perches and feed containers. Ease of cleaning is important. And last but not least is how will it accommodate a few special toys. So read on to prepare for your cage buying expedition.
Intro Edit. This wiki is about budgerigars and how best to raise them. For those of you unsure of what a budgie is, they are adorable little birds who make wonderful companions. They are small, colourful parakeets that are a popular pet around the world. Your bird should be fine on a diet of seed, millet and water, but for optimum nutrition, you should in troduce some kinds of fruit and vegetables, and give them a cuttlebone to eat and sharpen their beaks on (this provides them with calcium). Seeds are high in fat, so they shouldn't take up the whole of a bird's diet.
Ample perch space, again, guarantees each parakeet its own space. If the plan is for one large community cage, a couple of smaller cages are necessary for emergencies and to house a troublemaking budgie or two. Your parakeet needs a cage that is at least 24 inches by 24 inches. Measure the area where your parakeet will reside to get an idea of the size of cage the area will accommodate. This will keep you bringing home a bird cage only to find that it is too large for the space — or that you could have purchased a larger cage. A minimum cage size is 24 by 24 inches with 1/4-inch bar spacing so the budgie cannot fit its head through the bars. Birds spend just about every minute of every day on their feet. Be sure to give your parakeet at least three perches, with at least one made of natural wood.
In some countries, it is illegal to house a pet bird in a cage that does not permit it to spread its wings. Wingspans of common pet birds range from approximately 30 cm (12 in) for a budgie and 41 cm (16 in) for a cockatiel up to as much as 91–122 cm (36–48 in) for the larger macaws. Good quality cages designed for pet birds are more suitable. Most parrot cages are made or wrought iron and painted with a non-toxic paint referred to as powder-coating. However, the newest trend in the market is cages made of solid stainless steel.
4) What type of bird cage should I get for my pet budgie? Pet budgies are quite active, so your budgie needs a spacious bird cage. Opt for a bird cage that is at least 24 inches wide by 24 inches tall with ½- to 1-inch bar spacing. Look for bird cages that are easy to clean and maintain, (e.g. the cage has a pull-out tray, food and water dishes that are accessible from outside the pet bird cage).
A birdcage (or bird cage) is a cage designed to house birds as pets. Antique (or antique-style) birdcages are often popular as collectors' items or as household decor but most are not suitable for housing live birds, being too small, or of unsafe materials or construction. Good quality cages designed for pet birds are more suitable. Most parrot cages are made or wrought iron and painted with a non-toxic paint referred to as powder-coating. However, the newest trend in the market is cages made of solid stainless steel.
The standard minimum cage size recommended by bird professionals is 12- by 18- by 18-inches for a single bird. This cage size is fine if your budgie is outside of the cage most of the time, but if you have a cage-confined budgie, it's going to be much too small to keep your bird happy and healthy. For two budgies, 39- by 20- by 32-inches is a recommended size. Your budgie's cage needs to be large enough that your little guy can spread his wings out completely without hitting the sides of the cage, toys or perches. This is the absolute minimum width and length.