1 Press and hold or right-click an empty area on the taskbar, and then tap or click Properties. 2  Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 3  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 4  Under Behaviors, tap or click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then tap or click OK. 1 Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 2  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 3  Under Behaviors, click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then click OK.
Instructions. Right-click the Start icon on the Windows Vista taskbar to open a context menu. Click Properties in the context menu to open the Taskbar and Start Menu Properties dialog box. Select the Notification Area tab along the top of the dialog box. Click the box to the left of Power to place a check mark in the box. The Power check box is beneath the System Icons heading. Click the Apply and then the OK button. The battery icon will be displayed in the notification area of the system tray, which is on the far right side of the Windows Vista taskbar, usually along the bottom of your laptop's screen.
At the far right-hand end of the Taskbar is the System tray. At the left-hand end of the System tray is a small arrow pointing upwards. Click on it then select Customise. In the lower left-hand area of the dialog that opens is Turn system icons on or off, click on it. Set the Power icon to On. LU. The icon used to appear on the task bar at the bottom of the screen (next to the clock). It has just disappeared I tried to change the settings to bring it back, but it is telling me that the battery icon is off and wont let me turn it back on!
1 Right-click on the Taskbar and click Properties. 2  Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 3  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 4  Under Behaviors, click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then click OK. 1 Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 2  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 3  Under Behaviors, click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then click OK.
Windows Vista and 7 users. 1  Right-click on the Taskbar and click Properties. 2  Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 3  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 4  Under Behaviors, click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then click OK. 1 Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 2  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 3  Under Behaviors, click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then click OK.
Re: Add power/battery toolbar on taskbar. You can add it to the Quick Launch toolbar. Here's how: 1. If your Quick Launch toolbar is already visible, skip ahead to step 3. If not, right-click an open area of the taskbar and choose Toolbars, Quick Launch. 2. 
1 Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 2  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 3  Under Behaviors, tap or click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then tap or click OK. 1 Under the Taskbar tab, under Notification Area, click Customize... 2  Tap or click Turn system icons on or off. 3  Under Behaviors, click On in the drop-down list next to Power, and then click OK.
Power icon missing from windows 10? You can restore the battery icon in system tray notification area of Windows 10 taskbar by changing the settings shown in the video. Two settings changes. 1- Right click on taskbar I Properties I Notification Area I Customize I Select Which icons appear on the taskbar I turn the power icon ON. 