Honey is a known dietary reservoir of C. botulinum spores and has been linked to infant botulism. For this reason honey is not recommended for infants less than one year of age. Most cases of infant botulism, however, are thought to be caused by acquiring the spores from the natural environment. The toxin, though not the organism, is destroyed by heating to more than 85 °C (185 °F) for longer than 5 minutes. Honey can contain the organism, and for this reason honey should not be fed to children of under 12 months.
Great question! On average about 79 babies get infant botulism in the US each year (which also means, about 4 million babies don’t). Most cases happen between 2 and 8 months old – and the average age is only 3-4 months. Alan Greene. Jamie, even though the standard recommendation is to avoid honey for the whole first year, that provides a wide margin of error. The average age of infant botulism is only 3 or 4 months old, and by 8 months old this already-rare disease is even more rare. As you suggest, it is more common in Utah, Pennsylvania and California than in other states – but still quite rare
1 An average of 110 cases of botulism is reported annually in the US. 2  Approximately seventy percent of these cases are infant botulism. 3  Mean age of onset is 13 weeks, with a range from 1 to 63 weeks. 1 An average of 110 cases of botulism is reported annually in the US. 2  Over the past few years the number of cases of wound botulism has been between thirty and forty percent. 3  The median age of affected patients is 41 years with a range of 23-58 years. 4  The majority of those affected are female
Infants who acquire botulism range in age from six weeks to nine months, with the peak incidence occurring at two to three months of age. About 90 percent of infants with botulism are younger than six months. 4 Infant botulism may be difficult to recognize because of its insidious onset. 
Foodborne botulism happens when food containing the toxin is eaten. Infant botulism happens when the bacteria develops in the intestines and releases toxin. Typically this only happens in children less than six months of age as after that protective mechanisms develop. Wound botulism is found most often among those who inject street drugs. The toxin, though not the organism, is destroyed by heating to more than 85 °C (185 °F) for longer than 5 minutes. Honey can contain the organism, and for this reason honey should not be fed to children of under 12 months.
1 An average of 110 cases of botulism is reported annually in the US. 2  About twenty-five percent of these cases are foodborne botulism. 3  Mean age of infected people is 46 years, with a range from 3 to 78 years. 4  Men and women are affected equally. 1 An average of 110 cases of botulism is reported annually in the US. 2  Over the past few years the number of cases of wound botulism has been between thirty and forty percent. 3  The median age of affected patients is 41 years with a range of 23-58 years. 4  The majority of those affected are female
Of these, roughly 65% are infant botulism, 20% are wound botulism, and 15% are foodborne. Infant botulism is predominantly sporadic and not associated with epidemics, but great geographic variability exists. From 1974 to 1996, for example, 47.2% of all infant botulism cases reported in the U.S. occurred in California. The toxin, though not the organism, is destroyed by heating to more than 85 °C (185 °F) for longer than 5 minutes. Honey can contain the organism, and for this reason honey should not be fed to children of under 12 months.
1 Incidence. 2  An average of 110 cases of botulism is reported annually in the US. 3  About twenty-five percent of these cases are foodborne botulism. 4  Mean age of infected people is 46 years, with a range from 3 to 78 years. 1 An average of 110 cases of botulism is reported annually in the US. 2  Over the past few years the number of cases of wound botulism has been between thirty and forty percent. 3  The median age of affected patients is 41 years with a range of 23-58 years. 4  The majority of those affected are female