What Is Legionnaires' Disease. Legionnaires’ disease, or Legionellosis, is a severe infection caused by Legionella species, primarily L. pneumophila. In fact, L. pneumophila is responsible for 90% of infections. The disease typically presents as pneumonia and symptoms may include a high fever, chills, cough, muscle aches, headaches, and diarrhea. About the Disease. Legionnaires' disease is a severe, often lethal, form of pneumonia. It's caused by the bacterium Legionella pneumophila found in both potable and nonpotable water systems. Each year, an estimated 10,000 to 18,000 people are infected with the Legionella bacteria in the United States.
The bacteria which cause Legionnaires' disease-Legionella-exist in rivers, lakes and other places with fresh water-usually in low numbers because the water temperature in such places is too low for the bacteria to multiply rapidly. As Legionnaires' disease signs and symptoms are often mild, it is likely that the real number of infections is considerably higher than the reported ones. Legionnaires' disease may be hard to diagnose at first because its signs and symptoms may be very similar to other forms of pneumonia.
The genus Legionella is a pathogenic group of Gram-negative bacteria that includes the species L. pneumophila, causing legionellosis (all illnesses caused by Legionella) including a pneumonia-type illness called Legionnaires' disease and a mild flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. 
Knowledge center. With the current outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in south Wales, here are some facts about the illness. Legionnaires' disease, also called Legionellosis is a lung infection, a form of pneumonia which can be fatal, caused by the legionella bacterium. The name Legionnaires' disease emerged in 1976 - in July there was an outbreak of pneumonia among delegates at a convention of the American Legion in Philadelphia. As Legionnaires' disease signs and symptoms are often mild, it is likely that the real number of infections is considerably higher than the reported ones. Legionnaires' disease may be hard to diagnose at first because its signs and symptoms may be very similar to other forms of pneumonia.
Legionnaires' disease, also known as legionellosis or Legion fever, is a form of atypical pneumonia caused by any type of Legionella bacteria. Over 90% of cases of Legionnaires' disease are caused by Legionella pneumophila. Other causative species include L. longbeachae, L. feeleii, L. micdadei, and L. anisa. 
Legionnaires' disease is a common name for one of the several illnesses caused by Legionnaires' disease bacteria (LDB). Legionnaires' disease is an infection of the lungs and is a form of pneumonia. More than 43 species of Legionella have been identified and more than 20 linked with human diseases. 
Legionnaires' disease is a serious lung disease (pneumonia) with chills, high temperature (fever) and muscle pains. You get the infection by breathing in droplets of water which contain legionella germs (bacteria) from contaminated water systems. 