Anaerobic digestion is a process that uses microorganisms to break down the organic material in the absence of oxygen, which creates energy. An anaerobic digestion plant was built to process sewage in Bombay in 1859, and has been used in the United Kingdom since 1895. Biogas can then be used to generate electricity, as a boiler fuel for space or water heating, upgraded to natural gas pipeline quality, or for a variety of other uses. Flares are also installed to destroy extra gas and as a back-up mechanism for the primary gas use device. The stages of the anaerobic digestion process.
Biogas. Biogas is a biofuel produced from the anaerobic fermentation of carbohydrates in plant material or waste (eg food peelings or manure) by [bacterium: A type of single-celled microorganism.] bacteria. The methane can then be used as a fuel to generate electricity or heat buildings, eg care homes, hospitals and schools. This is an example of biogas generation on a commercial scale. Biogas extraction well. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3. 5  4
Chapter 2: Production of Biogas by Anaerobic Digestion mixed with flush and process water, the contents of the collection/mix tank can be pumped directly to a solids separator. A variety of solids separators, including static and shaking screens are available and currently used on farms. • Anaerobic digestion. The process occurs in an anaerobic (oxygen-free) environment through the activities of acid-and methane-forming bacteria that break down the organic material and produce methane (CH 4) and carbon dioxide (CO 2) in a gaseous form known as biogas.
Anaerobic digestion is widely used as a source of renewable energy. The process produces a biogas, consisting of methane, carbon dioxide and traces of other ‘contaminant’ gases. This biogas can be used directly as fuel, in combined heat and power gas engines or upgraded to natural gas-quality biomethane. Many microorganisms affect anaerobic digestion, including acetic acid-forming bacteria (acetogens) and methane-forming archaea (methanogens). These organisms promote a number of chemical processes in converting the biomass to biogas.
From Appropedia. Anaerobic digestion is a process in which microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen. The products of this are biogas (a mixture of carbon dioxide (CO2) and methane) and digestate (a nitrogen-rich fertiliser). The biogas can be burned to produce heat, or can be cleaned and used in the same way as natural gas or as an automobile fuel. The methane in biogas can be burned to produce both heat and electricity, usually with a reciprocating engine or microturbine often in a cogeneration arrangement where the electricity and waste heat generated are used to warm the digesters or to heat buildings.
Anaerobic digestion is a collection of processes by which microorganisms break down biodegradable material in the absence of oxygen. The process is used for industrial or domestic purposes to manage waste and/or to produce fuels. Many microorganisms affect anaerobic digestion, including acetic acid-forming bacteria (acetogens) and methane-forming archaea (methanogens). These organisms promote a number of chemical processes in converting the biomass to biogas.
2. Production of Biogas by Anaerobic Digestion Anaerobic digestion is a natural process in which bacteria convert organic materials into biogas. It occurs in marshes and wetlands, and in the digestive tract of ruminants. The process occurs in an anaerobic (oxygen-free) environment through the activities of acid-and methane-forming bacteria that break down the organic material and produce methane (CH 4) and carbon dioxide (CO 2) in a gaseous form known as biogas.
Chapter 2: Production of Biogas by Anaerobic Digestion by the anaerobic decomposition of manure. A well designed and managed anaerobic digester may reduce VOCs by more completely transforming them into CH 4. The process occurs in an anaerobic (oxygen-free) environment through the activities of acid-and methane-forming bacteria that break down the organic material and produce methane (CH 4) and carbon dioxide (CO 2) in a gaseous form known as biogas.
Methane is the principal gas in biogas. Methane is also the main component in natural gas, a fossil fuel. Biogas can be used to replace natural gas in many applications including: cooking, heating, steam production, electrical generation, vehicular fuel, and as a pipeline gas. 