Patterson founded the James Patterson PageTurner Awards in 2005 to donate over $100,000 that year to people, companies, schools, and other institutions that find original and effective ways to spread the excitement of books and reading. Patterson has also set up the James Patterson Teacher Education Scholarship in the schools of education at Appalachian State University, Michigan State University, and Florida Atlantic University.
The family surname is Patterson. The husband, James Patterson, is an internationally acclaimed author, but it is the wife, Susan Solie Patterson, who introduced him to a new culture. James Patterson is, by any logical measure, an Easterner. Born there. 
5 people found this useful.  1 Beach Road by James Patterson Book Review Beach Road is a 2006 crime mystery novel and is the third collaboration of bestselling author James Patterson with writer Peter de Jonge. 2  The pair first teamed up together …. 1 10 James Patterson Books Worth Reading James Patterson retired from a career in advertising to write in 1996. 2  He has sold over 270 million copies of his books. 3  He is famous for his Alex Cross character in many of ….
Early Years. Author James B. Patterson was born in Newburgh, New York on March 22, 1947. Patterson was a good student but didn't enjoy reading until after he graduated high school. He attended Manhattan College as an undergraduate before starting coursework for a master's degree in English literature at Vanderbilt University. His first book was published in 1976; 20 years later he left his advertising career to focus on writing. Patterson holds the Guinness World Record for having the most books on The New York Times ' best-seller list. Author James B. Patterson was born in Newburgh, New York on March 22, 1947.
He is largely known for his novels about fictional psychologist Alex Cross, the protagonist of the Alex Cross series. Patterson also wrote the Michael Bennett, Women's Murder Club, Maximum Ride, Daniel X, and Witch and Wizard series, as well as many stand-alone thrillers, non-fiction and romance novels. Patterson has also set up the James Patterson Teacher Education Scholarship in the schools of education at Appalachian State University, Michigan State University, and Florida Atlantic University.
Confidence votes 16. Yes, James Patterson does have a family. He has a son, Jack Patterson and a wife, Suzanne Patterson and the three of them live in Palm Beach Florida. 
James Patterson. The creator of the famous character of psychologist Alex Cross, James Patterson is the accomplished American author of not only thriller novels but also romance and non-fiction works. Patterson spent most of his working life in advertising before establishing a career in writing. With 71 novels in 33 years of which 19 topped the list of New York Times bestsellers, Patterson remains amongst the most widely read authors of these times. James Patterson was born in Newburgh, New York, on March 22, 1947. Patterson attended the Manhattan College where he obtained a Bachelor’s degree and later earned a Master’s degree from Vanderbilt University