Prevailing Wage. Prevailing Wage Builds Wisconsin. Prevailing wages are established by the Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development by a survey of contractors for each trade, in every county, for five different types of projects.
Explain Davis-Bacon as related to state prevailing wage? Davis-Bacon wages are a federally regulated wage rate applied to federally funded projects. Wisconsin s prevailing wage rate applies to public works projects in excess of $25,000, or publically funded private projects getting $1 million or more in public money. If a publically funded project exceeds both the federal and state threshold, both federal and state rates may apply to the project.
In this section, the public may view specific prevailing wage project determinations and find prevailing wage rates by county for the various construction trades and project types. These rates are meant for public viewing only, and not for project bidding purposes.
Complete Annual Prevailing Wage Survey. Every year from about May through July, the division conducts a survey of contractors who work on construction projects in Wisconsin. The survey results generate the prevailing wage rates for each construction trade in each county for five different project types.
Prevailing wage is determined by wage and benefit surveys of the local construction market that are conducted periodically by the Department of Labor for federally funded projects, or annually by the Wisconsin Department of Workforce Development for state and local projects.
In this section, the public may view specific prevailing wage project determinations and find prevailing wage rates by county for the various construction trades and project types.
If you have a question about the archived prevailing wage rates, please contact the Public Contracts section in the Division of Wage and Hour Compliance at (609) 292-2259 or wage.hour@dol.state.nj.us. Many of the documents contained on this site require Adobe Acrobat Reader to view them.
Prevailing Wage Rate Determinations. Applicable prevailing wage rates are those wages and fringe benefits in effect on the date the contract is awarded. All pre-determined rate increases listed at the time the contract is awarded must also be paid, beginning on the dates specified.