Brown algae is the largest, most complex type of algae. This type of marine algae is brown, olive or yellowish-brown in color. Brown algae contains contains chlorophyll a and c and a pigment called fucoxanthin, which gives it its color. Fucoxanthin is not found in other algae or plants. Unlike red and green algae, brown algae are in the Kingdom Chromista
In some areas, like the west of Ireland and Scotland, kelps and other brown algae are gathered as a fertiliser for land. There are about 1800 species of brown algae, and most are marine. In general, brown algae are larger and more species are found in colder waters. Virtually all the biomass worldwide comes from a relatively small number of species in the orders Laminariales and Fucales. Characteristics. The brown colour of these algae results from the dominance of the xanthophyll pigment fucoxanthin, which masks the other pigments, Chlorophyll a and c (there is no Chlorophyll b), beta-carotene and other xanthophylls. Food reserves are typically complex polysaccharides, sugars and higher alcohol
Seaweed is a term applied to multicellular, marine algae which are large enough to be seen by the eye unaided. Some can grow to up to 60 metres in length. Seaweeds include members of the red, brown and green algae. They are members of the kingdom Protista meaning they are not Plants. They do not have the vascular system (internal transport system) of plants and do not have roots, stems, leaves and flowers or cones. Blue-green algae are not marine algae. They are in a group called cyanobacteria and are more closely related to bacteria. Some cyanobacteria form brown, green, red or purple tufts on coral reefs. To survive seaweeds need salty or brackish water, sunlight and a surface to attach themselves to.
BROWN MACROALGAE (PHAEOPHYTA). Brown macro algae are abundant worldwide with most of their distribution in temperate waters as varieties of Kelp. The brown coloration is due to the brown pigment (fucoxanthin) and individual species vary in color from yellow to dark brown, depending on the depth. 
Marine Algae. - Sargassum Algae -. Marine algae are among the most ancient members of the plant kingdom, and vital components of the ecosystem of marine life. These plants are abundant in coastal areas, usually anchoring themselves to a hard surface using specialized “holdfast” structures. The three best known types of marine algae are red algae (Rhodophyta), green algae (Chlorophyta and others) and brown algae (Phaeophyceae). In the Gulf of Mexico, marine algae play an irreplaceable role in maintaining marine life and habitats.
1. Brown Algae-the Phaeophyta. Brown algae is the largest type of algae. Brown algae is in the phylum Phaeophyta, which means dusky plants.. Brown algae is brown or yellow-brown in color and found in temperate or arctic waters. Brown algae typically have a root-like structure called a holdfast to anchor the algae to a surface. Examples of brown algae: kelp, rockweed (Fucus), Sargassum. Interestingly, although they are all referred to as algae, the red, green and brown algae are classified into three different kingdoms: the protists, chromists and Plantae, respectively. The algae all have cell wall structures and are capable of photosynthesis like our plants on land.
1 Brown algae are eaten by herbivorous organisms such as fish, gastropods and sea urchins. 2  Benthic (bottom-dwelling) organisms also utilize brown algae such as kelp when pieces of it sink to the sea floor to decompose. 3  Brown algae are used to produced alginates, which are used as food additives and in industry. This type of marine algae is brown, olive or yellowish-brown in color. Brown algae contains contains chlorophyll a and c and a pigment called fucoxanthin, which gives it its color.
BROWN ALGAE Overview Information. Brown algae are edible algae found off the coast of Japan, Korea, and China. Brown algae are used for a variety of conditions including cancer, fibromyalgia, arthritis, stress, weight loss, heart disease, high cholesterol, and many other conditions. 