The fruit from ficus carcia is not poisonous (provided you're not allergic to latex), however I have read about poor tasting ficus carica figs that you would swear are poisonous:). Before you sample your fig fruit, you may want to search this forum to determine when a fig is ripe. Generally when a fig is ripe it swells, and droops. Other potential changes include; color change, cracking, and nectar weeping from the fruit. They're green, not turning any other color, look like normal figs. Thanks.
(You may need to boil them a little less or a little more depending on how unripe the figs are.). 6. Place figs back in the pot. Add the 5 cups of water, sugar, the juice of half the lemon (about 2 tablespoons), 4 strips of lemon peel and cloves. Bring to a boil and continue cooking, partially covering the pot with a lid, until the liquid becomes slightly syrupy and the figs begin to glisten.
Based on what I found, (because your post intrigued me), there is a species of tropical fig called the Weeping Fig or Benjamin Fig (which is not the same as our figs, but related). It does not produce fruit, by the way. The Weeping Fig may be toxic to birds, but I found NOTHING about burning wood. The sap of common figs is very irritating, but all in all, everything I found leads one to believe that figs, their leaves and most other parts (except the white milky sap) are very beneficial to health. Toxicity. The latex of the unripe fruits and of any part of the tree may be severely irritating to the skin if not removed promptly. It is an occupational hazard not only to fig harvesters and packers but also to workers in food industries, and to those who employ the latex to treat skin diseases.
The Fig Beetle is a scarab beetle (Family: Scarabaeidae), a group that plays an important role in recycling organic matter (more on that later). More specifically, Green Fig Beetles are part of the subfamily Cetoniinae, commonly known as ‘fruit and flower chafers’ or ‘flower beetles’. The Green Fig Beetle is native to Southwestern U.S. and Mexico. The species was likely limited to moister areas of Arizona, New Mexico and northern Mexico in the past.
Use Only Ripe Fig Fruit. An unripe fig fruit is not only ineffective but it can be toxic and allergic reactions may occur. Also, if the figs are taken from the tree prematurely, the white milky fluid that discharges from the stem can transfer to a person's hands, eyes or mouth. 1 It is a Mediterranean tree that is widely cultivated for its fleshy pear-shaped edible fruit. 2  It bears a fruit without flower. 3  It has a sweet taste and aromatic smell. 4  It is easy to harvest, eat and digest. 5  A ripe fig can be eaten fresh, dried, or preserved, and can be consumed as a juice or in syrup form.
Also present are bergaptene, stigmasterol, sitosterol, and tyrosine. In southern France, there is some use of fig leaves as a source of perfume material called fig-leaf absoluteÂa âa-dark green to-brownish, green-semi solid mass or thick liquid of-herbaceous-woody mossy, odor employed in creating woodland. scents Toxicity. The latex of the unripe fruits and of any part of the tree may be severely irritating to the skin if not removed promptly. It is an occupational hazard not only to fig harvesters and packers but also to workers in food industries, and to those who employ the latex to treat skin diseases.
Fruit also edible; Ficus laevigata, ripe fruit; Ficus palmata, fruit edible, unripe figs and leafy young shoots boiled and fried and used as a green vegetable; Ficus pseudoplama, young leaves are eaten raw in salads or cooked as a potherb. Fruits also edible; Ficus pumila, ripe fruit; Ficus racemosa, ripe fruit edible, unripe fruits picked, young shoots eaten raw or cooked; and, Ficus sycomorus, fruit edible, leaves eaten in soups. Two factoids: Figs are pollinated by a wasp that crawls into the developing fruit.
Figs can be green, brown, golden, striped or purple. Ripeness has less to do with color and more with how they’re hanging. (Behave.) Varieties above are Negronne (a.k.a. Violette du Bordeaux) and Dessert King and photos below show Peter’s Honey Fig. There’s nothing like a fresh ripe fig and there’s nothing like a fresh unripe fig. Ripe delivers a juicy, succulent and melting gem to fawn over. Unripe tastes like a wasted opportunity: dry, starchy and flavorless. It’s good to know the difference.