Construction adhesives is applied either in beads or full coverage. Beads are lines of adhesive that are applied to a surface with the use of a caulking gun. This is the most economical use of construction adhesive and typically used for the gluing of large, flat materials to large flat surfaces. Choosing the correct construction adhesive product can be confusing, since there is lots of functional overlap among them. Fortunately, the manufacturers are pretty good about listing the uses of their products on the labels.
PL Premium Construction Adhesive: This is a polyurethane based adhesive manufactured for the construction industry. I learned about it from Herb McLeod which he's used on several projects including his Michalak designed AF3 .. It is extremely strong and water proof. It is in the same category as 3M 5200. 
Loctite® PL® Premium® Polyurethane Construction Adhesive is a one component, polyurethane based, moisture-curing adhesive. It is VOC compliant and contains no chlorinated solvents or water. Loctite® PL® Premium® provides superior adhesion to most common construction materials. It can be used for interior or exterior projects and is 3X as strong as ordinary construction adhesives. It is also waterproof, paintable and cures even in cold temperatures.
Gorilla Heavy Duty Construction Adhesive is a tough, versatile, all-weather adhesive. Unlike other construction adhesives, it’s 100% adhesive formula provides a long-lasting, heavy duty bond. 
Use wood glue on bare wood. Construction adhesive is too thick, and doesn't penetrate like wood glue. Wood glue joints are typically stronger than the wood, and when properly applied and dried will never separate. Construction adhesive doesn't dry as hard as wood glue and can be prone to separation under pressure. Use wood glue for cabinets and woodworking joints that can't be seen. Use wood glue for laminating two pieces of wood together, or installing trim or molding on any bare wood project. Wood glue and construction adhesive are two different formulas. Even though they might be occasional interchanged for certain purposes, the two have distinct advantages and disadvantages depending on application. In some instances, the two should never be substituted for one another
Polyurethane Construction Adhesive is low in VOC yet up to 3 times stronger than traditional adhesives. It withstands all kinds of weather and bonds to practically any material, making it an ideal all-purpose adhesive for interior as well as exterior projects. 
Construction adhesive refers to a broad range of similar products used to bond common materials used in the construction, renovation and finishing of homes. Of course, if you have shopped in a hardware store you know that some companies have adhesives they have named construction adhesive. Choosing the correct construction adhesive product can be confusing, since there is lots of functional overlap among them. Fortunately, the manufacturers are pretty good about listing the uses of their products on the labels.
Learn more about this product: http://bit.ly/pb1F6D. Loctite PL Premium Polyurethane Construction Adhesive is a one component, polyurethane based, moisture-curing adhesive. It is VOC compliant and contains no chlorinated solvents or water. This PL construction adhesive provides superior adhesion to most common construction materials, a good glue for metal. It can be used for interior or exterior projects and is 3X as strong as ordinary construction adhesives. It is also waterproof, paintable and cures even in cold temperatures
Find What You Need. There's a LIQUID NAILS Brand construction adhesive for any job. LIQUID NAILS Adhesive was made for pros who know their stuff, work hard and take pride in what they do. It's the construction adhesive that's been proving itself on the job site for decades and still proves itself every single day.