T he toxic effects of NMP in humans have not been well studied. Most of the information comes from animal testing, not from human use of NMP. Animal tests are often used to determine effects of chemicals on human health. REpRODUCTIVE SYSTEM NMP caused delayed growth in the offspring of animals exposed during pregnancy in several studies. 2 LIVER AND kIDNEYS NMP is unlikely to cause liver or kidney damage if there is no noticeable effect on the nervous system. However, like other solvents, long-term exposure to NMP and drinking alcohol can increase your risk of liver damage. CANCER NMP did not cause cancer when tested in animals.
Navy Manning Plan (NMP) Tutorial. NMP is generally known as “distributable” inventory, but is more accurately a reflection of “distributed” inventory. P9 NMP reflects a projection of the inventory that will be distributed to billets in the future. Every other command is given a “fair share” of the assets remaining after the “directed” NMP is applied Some exceptions – i.e. 1/1 commands Navy Manning Plan. NMP represents the number of Sailors that are available to fill Force Structure billets in the Navy.
NMP. Not my problem. Used in a really, derogatory, off hand way. Used to show that you really don't care. Almost a I told you so phrase.
1 NMP (Not My Problem) , is a common abbreviation used as a response to email or memo messages, to flag that the previous message has been ignored. 2  Northern Medical Program, UNBC Northern Medical Program. 3  Non-Medical Prescriber, a healthcare clinician (not a doctor) who can prescribe medication. 
N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) is a water-miscible organic solvent. NMP is widely used in the petrochemical industry, and in the manufacturing of various compounds, including pigments, cosmetics, insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides. NMP increasingly is used as a substitute for chlorinated hydrocarbons.
Preparation [edit]. NMP is produced industrially by a typical ester-to-amide conversion, by treating butyrolactone with methylamine. Alternative routes include the partial hydrogenation of N-methylsuccinimide and the reaction of acrylonitrile with methylamine followed by hydrolysis. About 20,000 to 30,000 tons are produced annually. N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) is an organic compound consisting of a 5-membered lactam. It is a colorless liquid, although impure samples can appear yellow. It is miscible with water and with most common organic solvents
N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) is a water-miscible organic solvent. NMP is widely used in the petrochemical industry, and in the manufacturing of various compounds, including pigments, cosmetics, insecticides, herbicides, and fungicides. NMP increasingly is used as a substitute for chlorinated hydrocarbons. Copyright (c) 2015 NMP Producers Group. All rights reserved.
Definitions: 1. Abbreviation for nucleoside 5′-monophosphate. The definition information for NMP is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students