The Chaos Decretum was a military organization within Second Life loosely based off of the warhammer universe of a warrior-cult army of heretical Imperial Guardsmen known as Blood Pact that, unlike other followers of Chaos, live a disciplined military lifestyle.
Part of the fascination with this theory has to do its claim that chaos which is inherently more interesting than order-is a pervasive feature of the world around us. Chaos, we are told, is responsible for the unpredictability of the weather and the fluctuations of the stock market.
He was also worshiped as a fertility god, believed to be a contemporary of the primeval Chaos, which makes Eros one of the oldest gods. In the Dionysian Mysteries Eros is referred to as protagonus, the first born. But there are many variations to whom the parents of Eros really where.
Chaos, also known to its servants as the Primordial Truth or the Primordial Annihilator, and to the Imperium of Man as the Archenemy, is the universal and usually malign spiritual force embodied by the malevolent intelligent entities comprised of psychic energy that live in the Warp.
Current Engagements of the Imperium with the Chaos Space Marines. The Forces of Chaos is a term applied by Imperial scholars to all the myriad servants of the Ruinous Powers of Chaos who seek to destroy the Imperium of Man and replace it with the utterly anarchic predominance of Chaos.
Chaos is almost synonymous with the Warp -- the two concepts are inseparable, for Chaos is the limitless ocean of spiritual, psychic and emotional energy that defines the Immaterium and underlies the 4-dimensional material universe of space-time.
Recall that mathematically, chaos is a property of dynamical systems which are deterministic (ยง1.2.1). Since the 18th century, the best models of and support for metaphysical determinism were thought to be the determinism of theories and models in physics.
Chaos theory is the study of nonlinear dynamics, in which seemingly random events are actually predictable from simple deterministic equations. In a scientific context, the word chaos has a slightly different meaning than it does in its general usage as a state of confusion, lacking any order.