A few summers ago, I've stayed awake for 4 1/2 days, went to sleep for a day, stayed up for 3 more days and have continued on in that fashion for a while. I've heard that two days without sleep can mess with your head. RE: How many days can you go without sleep before you die? I&#39;m curious. A few summers ago, I&#39;ve stayed awake for 4 1/2 days, went to sleep for a day, stayed up for 3 more days and have continued on in that fashion for a while. I&#39;
Best Answer: A good book to read about this is Sleep Thieves by Stanley Coren. He tells a few stories of people who tried to sustain wakefulness. One famous case is the disc jockey Peter Tripp who in 1959 stayed up for more than eight days as a promotional stunt. After a few days, he began to hallucinate, seeing kittens, mice, and cobwebs. In 1964 high school student Randy Gardner (17) attempted to break the Guinness Book of World Records for the longest time awake -- 260 hours. And after 11 days without sleep he suffered no hallucinations or paranoia and no psychotic symptoms. But Coren challenges this often repeated fact in his book.
A person who has fatal familial insomnia may die after several months with no sleep at all; people without this condition may experience dementia or develop permanent personality changes within the first few weeks. In 1964 high school student Randy Gardner (17) attempted to break the Guinness Book of World Records for the longest time awake -- 260 hours. And after 11 days without sleep he suffered no hallucinations or paranoia and no psychotic symptoms. But Coren challenges this often repeated fact in his book.
Again, you come to the question, how long can you live without sleep. The answer isn't set, but it is something you should be concerned with. Doctors recommend that people get at least seven to eight hours of sleep per night, with six hours of sleep being the bare minimum. 
The easy experimental answer to this question is 264 hours (about 11 days). In 1965, Randy Gardner, a 17-year-old high school student, set this apparent world-record for a science fair. Several other normal research subjects have remained awake for eight to 10 days in carefully monitored experiments. 
Like breathing, sleep is a fundamental human requirement. It has even been said that one could survive for three times as long without food as one could without sleep. Indeed, one of the better known experiments on this subject, found that depriving rats entirely of sleep resulted in their death, or near-dying state, within 11-32 days (Everson et al. 1989). 
A person will usually be able to live about 4-6 weeks without food. However there has been some cases where prisoners has lived for as long as 76 days without food. There is … many other factors that decides how long a person will survive. A person with a lot of body fat will survive longer than a person with less body fat.
How long can you stay awake? Randy Gardner holds the record for the longest a person has ever voluntarily gone without sleep, staying awake for 264 hours (about 11 days) when he was 17 for a school science fair project in 1965. A doctor told a courtroom this week in Los Angeles that Michael Jackson went without real sleep for 60 days leading up to his death. The testimony raises questions about how long a person can survive without shut-eye, and whether it matters what type of sleep a person slips into when they snooze