Synovial joints are predominant in your limbs where mobility is important. Ligaments help provide their stability and muscles contract to produce movement. The most common synovial joints are listed below: 1  Ball and socket joints, like your hip and shoulder joints, are the most mobile type of joint in the human body. 2  They allow you to swing your arms and legs in many different directions.
The different types of synovial joints found in the body are described. The types of movements that may occur at synovial joints are portrayed. The important characteristics of selected joints are described in detail. Factors affecting contact and range of motion at synovial joints are explained. Arthrology. is the study of joints; kinesiology. is the study of motion of the body. 3. Structural characteristics of a specific joint affect the strength, magnitude of movement, and types of movement that may occur at a specific joint.
There are many different classes of synovial joints in the body, including gliding, hinge, saddle, and ball and socket joints. 1  Gliding joints, such as the ones between the carpals of the wrist, are found where bones meet as flat surfaces and allow for the bones to glide past one another in any direction. 1 These joints have the freest range of motion of any joint in the body – they are the only joints that can move in a full circle and rotate around their axis. 2  However, the drawback to the ball and socket joint is that its free range of motion makes it more susceptible to dislocation than less mobile joints.
There are six types of synovial joints: gliding, condoloid, saddle, hinge, ball and socket, and pivot joints. Gliding joints allow for smooth movement in several directions along a plane or other smooth surface. The articulation is like two plates sliding across each other. An example would be the carpal bones of the wrist, which form a gliding synovial joint.
9. Name and provide examples of the 6 types of synovial joints based on the movement(s) allowed. 10. Describe the elbow, knee, hip, jaw, and shoulder joints relative to articulating bones, anatomical characteristics of the joint movements allowed, and joint stability. 11. 
3. Describe the structure and functions of the two types of cartilaginous joints. 4. Describe the structure of synovial joints. 5. Describe the structure and function of bursae and tendon sheaths. 6. Describe the six subtypes of synovial joints. 7. Describe the types of movements that can occur at synovial joints. 8. Arthrology. is the study of joints; kinesiology. is the study of motion of the body. 3. Structural characteristics of a specific joint affect the strength, magnitude of movement, and types of movement that may occur at a specific joint.
2. Arthrology. is the study of joints; kinesiology. is the study of motion of the body. 3. Structural characteristics of a specific joint affect the strength, magnitude of movement, and types of movement that may occur at a specific joint.
Ball & Socket Joint. Ball-and-socket joints are a special class of synovial joints that enjoy the highest freedom of motion in the body thanks to their unique structure. Click to read more below
There are six types of synovial joints which allow varying types and ranges of movement to occur. The variation in the movements at these joints is because of the differences in their characteristics and limiting factors, as previously discussed. The six synovial joints are: 2. Saddle joints: These joint surfaces resemble a saddle and allow side to side and back and forth movements. 4. Pivot joints: These joints allow only one type of movement, the rotation of one bone on or around another. An example of a pivot joint is the joint between the atlas and axis (C1 & C2) vertebrae, the rotation around each other allows our heads to ‘pivot’ left and right. 5.
A synovial joint, also known as diarthrosis, is the most common and most movable type of joint in the body of a mammal. As with most other joints, synovial joints achieve movement at the point of contact of the articulating bones. Structural and functional differences distinguish synovial joints from cartilaginous joints (synchondroses and symphyses) and fibrous joints (sutures, gomphoses, and syndesmoses). 1 Articular cartilage: the bones of a synovial joint are covered by this layer of hyaline cartilage that lines the epiphyses of joint end of bone with a smooth, slippery surface that does not bind them together; articular cartilage functions to absorb shock and reduce friction during movement.