1 Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt together in a separate bowl. 2  Stir flour mixture into butter mixture until dough is fully combined. 3  Pour confectioners' sugar onto a large plate. 4  Spoon dough, 1 1/2 teaspoons per cookie, onto confectioners' sugar and roll to coat. 5  Arrange coated dough on a baking sheet. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Beat brown sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy. 3  Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt together in a separate bowl. 4
1 Use brown sugar, honey, or molasses as a sweetener. 2  Let cookies cool on the pan for several minutes after baking before transferring to cooling rack. 3  Crispy For crisp, crunchy cookies, use all butter and a proportion of white sugar. 4  Use egg yolks in place of a whole egg. 
2. Stir butter, 1 1/2 cups brown sugar, and salt in a large bowl until combined. Stir in egg and vanilla until combined. Add flour, baking powder, and baking soda to bowl and stir until combined. 3. Scoop 1/4 cup sized balls of dough onto baking sheets (7 to 8 per pan). Add remaining 1/4 cup brown sugar to now empty (unwashed) bowl. Roll each dough ball into sugar, return to pan, and press to about 1 inch thick. 4.
1 Beat brown sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy. 2  Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt together in a separate bowl. 3  Stir flour mixture into butter mixture until dough is fully combined. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Beat brown sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy. 3  Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt together in a separate bowl. 4
You’re also going to use only brown sugar in this cookie recipe (except for the rolling… more on that below). 1 and 1/4 cups of dark brown sugar bring so much moisture to these baked cookies, as well as a modest molasses flavor. Light brown sugar may easily be substituted here! Pour the granulated sugar into a bowl. Take 2 Tablespoons of dough and roll into a ball, then roll into the sugar. Bake for precisely 8-9 minutes. Remove from the oven and gently press the top of the cookie down with the back of a utensil or even use your fingers.
1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Beat brown sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy. 3  Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt together in a separate bowl. 4  Stir flour mixture into butter mixture until dough is fully combined. Ready In. 1 
1 Stir flour mixture into butter mixture until dough is fully combined. 2  Pour confectioners' sugar onto a large plate. 3  Spoon dough, 1 1/2 teaspoons per cookie, onto confectioners' sugar and roll to coat. 4  Arrange coated dough on a baking sheet. 5  Bake in the preheated oven until edges are lightly browned, 12 to 14 minutes. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Beat brown sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract together in a bowl using an electric mixer until smooth and creamy. 3  Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt together in a separate bowl. 4 
s. one can always make brown sugar by adding a teaspoon of molasses to every cup of white sugar. I keep molasses in fridge and use it for stir fry sauces. I have also experimented with it in my cookie recipes. I prefer regular brown sugar.
1 In a large bowl, use a wooden spoon to mix together the soft butter, brown sugar, salt and baking soda until it is completely combined. 2  Add the egg and vanilla and keep mixing until it is combined. 3  Add the flour, and then the chocolate chips. 4  Mix until everything is incorporated. 
Cookies often rely on brown sugar for their chewy, crunchy texture. To retain the texture, replace only the white granulated sugar in your cookie recipes. You can also try replacing a bit less of the total sugar or by using SPLENDA ® Sugar Blend. 