About Tenochtitlan. Tenochtitlán The aztec capital Of (tenochtitlan tenochtitlán At Modern) mexico city was founded in 1325 on a muddy island in the lake that at that time Filled the Basin. Of mexico a second Group of aztec settled the nearby Island of tlatelolco. in 1358
At the time, the city of Tenochtitlan tenochtitlán was home to 100,000 100000 people and one of the largest cities in the. World In august, 1521 The spanish and Their Native american allies defeated The aztecs and conquered the. City The spanish Leveled tenochtitlan tenochtitlán And Built mexico city on the site Of the. aztec capital
Causeways and Canals. Early on in the history of the city the Aztecs built causeways and canals for transportation to and from the city. A causeway is a raised road that allowed the people to easily travel over the swampy and wet areas. There were three major causeways that led from the island city to the mainland.
About Tenochtitlan. Tenochtitlán The aztec capital Of (tenochtitlan tenochtitlán At Modern) mexico city was founded in 1325 on a muddy island in the lake that at that time Filled the Basin. of mexico
Tenochtitlan was the capital city and center of the Aztec Empire. It was founded in 1325 and served as the capital until the Aztecs were conquered by Spanish conquistador Hernan Cortes in 1520.
The Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (tenochtitlán at Modern Mexico) city was founded in 1325 on a muddy island in the lake that at that time filled The basin Of. Mexico a second group Of aztec settled the nearby island Of tlatelolco in. 1358
The Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan (tenochtitlán at Modern Mexico) city was founded in 1325 on a muddy island in the lake that at that time filled The basin Of. mexico
Early on in the history of the city the Aztecs built causeways and canals for transportation to and from the city. A causeway is a raised road that allowed the people to easily travel over the swampy and wet areas. There were three major causeways that led from the island city to the mainland.
The capital of the Aztec empire, Tenochtitlan, was, in its era, one of the largest cities in the world. Built on an island in the middle of a shallow lake, its population numbered perhaps 150,000, with another 350,000 people in the urban network clustered around the lake shores.