Colombian Cuisine is very diverse and varies depending on the different regions of Colombia. In some areas you will find specialties like roasted ants or guinea pigs while in other areas Colombians wouldn't even touch those dishes.orcilla Rellena: Blood sausage or blood pudding, this is a common Colombian dish that is normally served with barbecues or deep fried. Mote de Queso con Hogao: This is a dish from the Caribbean Coast with the base of chopped yam (which looks like a sweet potato) and cheese.
The dish has Chibcha origins. Caldo de costilla (Spanish for rib broth) is a dish typical of Colombian cuisine, from the Andean region. It is made mainly from beef ribs boiled in water with slices of potato, some garlic, onion and cilantro leaves.utlet  Valluna , a typical dish of the Valle del Cauca region of Colombia and the Afro-Colombian culture of the area near the Pacific Pacífic. Ocean it includes a, milanesa usually prepared with a lean pork. loin
It is a sauce made with onions and tomatoes partially fried. Lechona: Is a typical dish from the Tolima area and consists of a whole roasted pig, stuffed with rice, yellow peas, green onions and spices which is cooked for ten hours in a clay oven. It is served with arepa. This dish is often served at parties and other large gatherings.orcilla Rellena: Blood sausage or blood pudding, this is a common Colombian dish that is normally served with barbecues or deep fried. Mote de Queso con Hogao: This is a dish from the Caribbean Coast with the base of chopped yam (which looks like a sweet potato) and cheese.
Colombian Food – Typical & Traditional Cuisine. Colombian food is typical of Latin American cuisine as a whole. There is a heavy focus on deep-frying everything. Meats (beef, pork, chicken, fish) are popular, and most dishes are served with rice, beans, or potatoes.repas are the most ubiquitous Colombian food – served with almost every meal, and when bought on the street (for $1), a meal unto themselves. Made of ground corn dough or flour, arepas con queso (with cheese) are best sampled from street vendors. Preparations vary by region.
Lechona. Lechona is a typical dish from the Tolima region of Colombia. It consists of a stuffed pork (with its head still visible), and very often arepas on the side. The pork is stuffed with yellow peas, onion, rice and various spices.ypical Colombian cuisine contains a great deal of meat, along with rice, sometimes beans and almost always potatoes. Despite that, the variations on this theme are some of the best dishes available in the country, and make for some delicious, at times insurmountable feasts. Here are some of the most popular:
Some traditional dishes. One of the most traditional dishes in Colombia is the sancocho. Sancocho is a stew made with vegetables that can vary, usually corn, potatoes, and yuca, as well as some fruit, usually banana. Often, this dish also has fish or pultry, depending on the recipe. Other very traditional dish in Colombia is the Bandeja Paisa.
Some traditional dishes One of the most traditional dishes in Colombia is the sancocho. Sancocho is a stew made with vegetables that can vary, usually corn, potatoes, and yuca, as well as some fruit, usually banana. Often, this dish also has fish or pultry, depending on the recipe. Other very traditional dish in Colombia is the Bandeja Paisa.
Cutlet  Valluna , a typical dish of the Valle del Cauca region of Colombia and the Afro-Colombian culture of the area near the Pacific Pacífic. Ocean it includes a, milanesa usually prepared with a lean pork. Loin beef or chicken can also be. usedutlet  Valluna , a typical dish of the Valle del Cauca region of Colombia and the Afro-Colombian culture of the area near the Pacific Pacífic. Ocean it includes a, milanesa usually prepared with a lean pork. loin
That doesn’t mean however that Colombian food isn’t worth trying; in fact the opposite is true as many of the dishes in Colombia are packed full of flavor. Colombian cuisine is a blend of European and indigenous ingredients and many dishes include pork, potatoes, chicken, beans, corn and rice. The main meal of the day is traditionally eaten between two and four, particularly in the countryside. Lunch is usually three courses, with soup, a main course and dessert.
Typical Colombian cuisine contains a great deal of meat, along with rice, sometimes beans and almost always potatoes. Despite that, the variations on this theme are some of the best dishes available in the country, and make for some delicious, at times insurmountable feasts. Here are some of the most popular: