Answer: Fresh eggs are more difficult to peel after they are boiled. Eggs kept in the refrigerator for a week to ten days before boiling will peel more easily. Hard-boiled eggs are usually good for up to one week after they have been hard boiled, as long as the shell is not cracked.
Older eggs are easier to peel than fresh eggs. If you are planning to make hard boiled eggs for Easter and want to make sure that the eggs are easy to peel, buy your eggs at least a week ahead of time (two weeks even better, they'll keep). 2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off.
Soft: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 4 to 5 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool. 
1 Bring to a rolling boil over high heat, then reduce heat to a lower medium boil for an additional 12 minutes. 2  Promptly place eggs in ice water to chill so egg yolks remain nice and bright yellow. 3  Hard boiled eggs are good for one week if kept in the shell in the refrigerator. Check out the FAQ page for answers. 1  To hard cook eggs, place in enough cold water to cover eggs completely. 2  Bring to a rolling boil over high heat, then reduce heat to a lower medium boil for an additional 12 minutes. 3  Promptly place eggs in ice water to chill so egg yolks remain nice and bright yellow.
If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!). 2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off.
Hard-cooked eggs in the shell can be refrigerated up to one week. Peeled hard boiled eggs can be stored in the refrigerator in a bowl of cold water to cover for about 1 week (change the water daily) - or in a sealed container without water (cover the eggs with damp paper towels) for the same length of time. Soft-cooked (boiled) eggs: A soft-cooked egg has a firm white and runny yolk. To serve in egg cup, place egg in cup small end down, slice off large end of egg with knife or egg scissors and eat from shell with spoon. You can also buy a good egg topper from a kitchen store.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. 2. Turn off the heat, keep the pan on the hot burner, cover, and let sit for 10-12 minutes. If you have the type of stove burner that doesn't retain any heat when turned off, you might want to lower the temp to low, simmer for a minute, and then turn it off.
1 If you like your eggs medium-boiled, remove them from the water in 5-7 minutes. 2  The yolks should be semi-soft in the very center and the whites should be very firm. 3  If you like your eggs hard-boiled, leave the eggs in the hot water for up to 10-15 minutes. 4  The yolks should be firm all the way through. 1 The yolks should be semi-soft in the very center and the whites should be very firm. 2  If you like your eggs hard-boiled, leave the eggs in the hot water for up to 10-15 minutes. 3  The yolks should be firm all the way through. 4  It's difficult to overcook eggs this way.
1 To hard cook eggs, place in enough cold water to cover eggs completely. 2  Bring to a rolling boil over high heat, then reduce heat to a lower medium boil for an additional 12 minutes. Check out the FAQ page for answers. 1  To hard cook eggs, place in enough cold water to cover eggs completely. 2  Bring to a rolling boil over high heat, then reduce heat to a lower medium boil for an additional 12 minutes. 3  Promptly place eggs in ice water to chill so egg yolks remain nice and bright yellow.