Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group. 
Best Answer: I think they are two different questions. The second one is not list the two types of building blocks, it should be list the two types of nucleic acids. So to answer your question: Building blocks of nucleic acid: Pentose sugar, nitrogenous base (purine or pyrimidine), phosphate group. Two types of nucleic acid: Deoxyribo nucleic acid (DNA) and Ribonucleic acid (RNA). Source(s): I work with them :-). Thinkr · 6 years ago.
The building blocks of the nucleic acids are nucleotides.Each nucleotide are composed of three parts...1.Pentose sugar.2.Nitrogenous bases.3.Phosphoric acid. 
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. 
The building blocks (called monomers) of nucleic acids are nucleotides. Nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. Nucleic acids are made of monomers known as nucleotides. There are 3 parts to nucleotides. They are a nitrogenous base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. 11 people found this useful.
Best Answer: nucleic acids deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are the genetic material of cells. their names are derived from type of sugar, ribose, contained within these molecules. NUCLEOTIDES are the building blocks of these nucleic acids. each monomer of nucleic acid, is called a nucleotide, and consists of 3 portions: -a pentose sugar-one or more phosphate groups-one of five cyclic nitrogenous bases :). Source(s): car wrecker · 6 years ago. 
Formation of a polynucleotide Nucleic acids are the 'building blocks' of DNA and RNA. The structure of DNA DNA is formed from two polynucleotide chains. Each chain has a helical structure (a helix), in other words the molecule is coiled like a spring. The two helices are then intertwined to give a double helix. Nucleic acids Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleic acids found in the nuclei of living cells. They are the vehicles of genetic inheritance. Nucleic acids are condensation polymers of nucleotides
DNA and its nucleic acid cousin, ribonucleic acid, or RNA, are both made of the same kinds of building blocks. These building blocks are called nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three parts: a sugar (ribose for RNA and deoxyribose for DNA), a phosphate, and a nitrogenous base. 1 Proteins, made of amino acids in up to four structural levels, are involved in just about every process of life. 2  The nucleic acids DNA and RNA consist of four nucleotide building blocks, and each has different purposes.
Nucleic acids are made of monomers known as nucleotides. There are 3 parts to nucleotides: one of 4 nitrogenous bases, a sugar, and a phosphate group. RNA as well as DNA are … both nucleotides. The four bases in DNA are: Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine and Thymine (present in DNA only). Plus a slightly different base: Uracil (present in RNA only). Nucleic acids are made of monomers known as nucleotides. There are 3 parts to nucleotides. They are a nitrogenous base, a pentose sugar, and a phosphate group. 11 people found this useful.