The Franks were discovered in 1944 and sent to concentration camps; only Anne’s father survived. Anne Frank’s diary of her family’s time in hiding, first published in 1947, has been translated into almost 70 languages and is one of the most widely read accounts of the Holocaust. Fritz Pfeffer died from illness in late December 1944 at the Neuengamme concentration camp in Germany. Anne Frank’s father, Otto, was the only member of the group to survive; he was liberated from Auschwitz by Soviet troops on January 27, 1945.
In November 1942, the Franks and Van Pels were joined by Fritz Pfeffer (1889-1944), Miep Gies’ Jewish dentist. Life for the eight people in the small apartment, which Anne Frank referred to as the Secret Annex, was tense. The group lived in constant fear of being discovered and could never go outside. Fritz Pfeffer died from illness in late December 1944 at the Neuengamme concentration camp in Germany. Anne Frank’s father, Otto, was the only member of the group to survive; he was liberated from Auschwitz by Soviet troops on January 27, 1945.
In the Middle Ages, the term Frank was used in the east as a synonym for western European, as the Franks were then rulers of most of Western Europe. The Franks in the east kept their Germanic language and became part of the Germans, Dutch, Belgians and Luxembourgers. With the coronation of their ruler Charlemagne as Imperator Romanorum by Pope Leo III in 800 AD, he and his successors were recognised as legitimate successors to the emperors of the Western Roman Empire. In this way, Romance speakers came to be seen as Franks in some contexts.
After two centuries of rule, the waning power of the Merovingian dynasty prompted Charles Martel (686-741), a native from Li ge, to proclaime himself Duke of the Franks and was in all but name de facto ruler of the Frankish Realms. Origins of the Franks. The Franks, like other West Germanic tribes, is thought to have descended from Denmark or Schleswig-Holstein in the Early Iron Age (c. 500 BCE) through Lower Saxony. The Franks would have settled in the northeastern Netherlands, as far as the Rhine, circa 200 BCE
When the Franks first appeared as such in the 3rd century, they spoke the same language, Proto-Germanic. This has been reconstructed from Germanic reflex languages, chance personal and place names in documents, words from languages such as Latin and inscriptions in a native script called the Elder Futhark. With the coronation of their ruler Charlemagne as Imperator Romanorum by Pope Leo III in 800 AD, he and his successors were recognised as legitimate successors to the emperors of the Western Roman Empire. In this way, Romance speakers came to be seen as Franks in some contexts.
Quatr.us Middle Ages Early Middle Ages. The Franks had been living for some time in northern Germany when the weakness of the Roman Empire tempted them to move south in the 400s AD. Compared to the Visigoths and the Ostrogoths, and even the Vandals, the Franks were relatively late arrivals on the Roman scene. 
The Franks were originally a confederation of Germanic tribes east of the Rhine that from AD 257 began to raid Roman territory. The kings were called Merovingians because they descended from Merovech whom the Franks believed to be son of a divine creature. = Frankish Kingdom 482 = Conquests to 496 = Conquests to 507. The most famous Merovingian king was Clovis who ascended the throne about 482 AD.
Some Franks raided Roman territory, while other Frankish tribes joined the Roman troops of Gaul. In later times, Franks became the military rulers of the northern part of Roman Gaul. With the coronation of their ruler Charlemagne as Imperator Romanorum by Pope Leo III in 800 AD, he and his successors were recognised as legitimate successors to the emperors of the Western Roman Empire. In this way, Romance speakers came to be seen as Franks in some contexts.
Gregory of Tours, History of the Franks The Conversion of Clovis From The Chronicle of St. Denis, I.18-19, 23: Forum Weekly Poll Please Help Click Here The Franks Date 2001 A History of the Franks. Franks. Clovis. Christianity and the FranksThe Franks were a group of Germanic tribes that, about the middle of the 3rd century AD, dwelt along the middle and lower Rhine River. The Franks appeared in the Roman provinces around 253 and soon thereafter established themselves in two principal groups, the Salian and the Ripuarian. In 496 the Alemannians, a Germanic confederation like the Franks, who also had been, for some time past, assailing the Roman Empire on the banks of the Rhine or the frontiers of Switzerland, crossed the river and invaded the settlements of the Franks on the left bank.