Venus Flytrap native habitat is located in USDA Hardiness Zone 8b, with an average annual minimum temperature of 10 to 15 degrees F (-9.5 to 12.2 degrees C). This is hardly tropical. Give your Venus Flytrap what it really wants-light. Venus Flytrap plants are native North American plants, not tropical plants. If you live in the continental United States, you can usually raise a Venus Flytrap plant as a potted plant without a humidity dome. They can adapt to low humidity. But they do not adapt to low light (see above)
Venus flytraps are a type of carnivorous plant that traps insects and uses enzymes to break them down for food. Native to North Carolina, the venus fly trap can handle warm, humid weather well as cool temperatures. Many people grow venus flytraps as a hobby or for fly control. 1 Avoid any Venus flytrap plants that are potted in regular soil. 2  These plants require a special kind of soil that is free of minerals. 3  Look for a plant that has vibrant green leaves and shoots. 4  The traps themselves will be green or even reddish in color.
The Venus flytrap is a small plant whose structure can be described as a rosette of four to seven leaves, which arise from a short subterranean stem that is actually a bulb-like object. The speed with which traps close can be used as an indicator of a plant's general health. Venus flytraps are not as humidity-dependent as are some other carnivorous plants, such as Nepenthes, Cephalotus, most Heliamphora, and some Drosera.
Using pure water is essential to the health of a Venus Fly Trap. In general, tap water will not be good for Venus fly traps and can quickly lead to poor health and death. Sometimes this means watering only 2-3 times per month during dormancy, depending on weather, humidity and the size of the pot the Venus fly trap is growing in (larger pots often retain water for a longer period).
The Venus flytrap (also referred to as Venus's flytrap or Venus' flytrap), Dionaea muscipula, is a carnivorous plant native to subtropical wetlands on the East Coast of the United States in North Carolina and South Carolina. The speed with which traps close can be used as an indicator of a plant's general health. Venus flytraps are not as humidity-dependent as are some other carnivorous plants, such as Nepenthes, Cephalotus, most Heliamphora, and some Drosera.
Humidity is the amount of water vapor in the air. This varies from day to day and depends on the temperature: warm air can hold more water vapor than cold air. Humidity is measured as a percentage of the maximum amount of water that the air can hold at a given temperature. 
Plant Environment. The plant should be kept in a warm and moist environment, but never submerged. The Venus flytrap can live submerged underwater for up to three months, but it is not recommended by professionals. The Venus flytrap (Dionaea muscipula) is a plant that is native to the wetlands of North and South Carolina.
Native Venus Flytrap plants have a habitat that has full sun, good air circulation, and porous, well draining, soil that is nutrient poor. To be successful at growing Venus Flytrap plants, you want to mimic their home habitat as much as possible. Give your Venus Flytrap what it really wants-light. Venus Flytrap plants are native North American plants, not tropical plants. If you live in the continental United States, you can usually raise a Venus Flytrap plant as a potted plant without a humidity dome. They can adapt to low humidity. But they do not adapt to low light (see above)
Venus Fly Trap in water tray. One way to water a Venus Flytrap is the tray method. Above you will see a photo of the tray method which involves setting a pot with drainage holes in the bottom of it in a tray of distilled or other pure water. Most soil that Venus fly traps are potted in is very good at retaining water. Sometimes this means watering only 2-3 times per month during dormancy, depending on weather, humidity and the size of the pot the Venus fly trap is growing in (larger pots often retain water for a longer period).