The familiar shrub, Thuja occidentalis, marketed as Eastern arborvitae and Northern white cedar, is native to much of eastern North American. Thuja plicata, is a western native that may be labeled giant arborvitae or Western red cedar. Fast-growing and relatively inexpensive, the short-leaved evergreens make quick foundation landscaping for new homes. 1 Arborvitae grow best when fussed with least. 2  You may find that, prune as you might, your arb is just the wrong shape. 3  Under these circumstances, consider planting a new shrub. 4  Arborvitae come in a variety of shapes and shades -- there’s one that will fit your space and demand a minimum amount of attention.
Green Giant arborvitae trees (Thuja plicata Green Giant) reach extreme heights with a narrow pyramidal habit for larger-than-life interest in the home landscape. Landscape with Green Giant arborvitaes as mass plantings, particularly surrounding a property. Plant the trees spaced out along a fence or in place of a fence to act as a physical border between properties or to delineate a particular area of th
Thuja Green Giant Arborvitae is the most popular fast growing privacy screen tree in America now but, if you live in the hotter parts of the country, consider Carolina Sapphire & the Blue Ice Cypress. 
Hoe! Hoe! Green Giant! 'Green Giant' arborvitae, that is (Thuja standishii x plicata). A U.S. National Arboretum elite plant, this ornamental, pyramid-shaped conifer is an outstanding landscape tree that gives you the look you want with improved performance. 'Green Giant' arborvitae increases in height rapidly, growing 1 2 feet per growing season, sometimes more. A hedge row of Green Giant was planted on the grounds of the U.S. National Arboretum in 1998. At the time of installation, the trees were 3 3 feet tall on 6 foot centers
With deep green dense needled foliage and tiny brown cones, Green Giant arborvitaes offer both visual impact and a wide variety of uses in the home landscape, growing most successfully in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 5 to 8. Landscape with Green Giant arborvitaes as mass plantings, particularly surrounding a property. Plant the trees spaced out along a fence or in place of a fence to act as a physical border between properties or to delineate a particular area of the landscape.
Grows by leaps and bounds 3 feet or more each year! Thuja 'Green Giant' is one of the fastest growing of all Conifers. This very rare Western Red Cedar will put on 3 to 5 feet of growth per year. An excellent evergreen privacy screen or windbreak, it's also tremendously dense, weather-resistant, repellent to deer, and marvelously fragrant! The most vigorous growth will be in full sun and enriched soil with plenty of water and fertilizer, especially the first few years. 'Green Giant' can also tolerate a bit of shade. Expect it to eventually reach 30 to 50 feet tall, 10 to 12 feet wide.
1. Provide consistent care to Green Giant arborvitae trees, as healthy plants are more likely to avoid and recover from problems such as pests and diseases than poorly maintained trees. Grow these evergreens in areas of the garden that provide full sun to partial shade. Landscape with Green Giant arborvitaes as mass plantings, particularly surrounding a property. Plant the trees spaced out along a fence or in place of a fence to act as a physical border between properties or to delineate a particular area of the landscape.
Thuja Green Giant Hybrid Arborvitae has become the most desired privacy tree almost overnight, and for many good reasons. This uniformly conical tree performs well in most any soil. 
Poulsen from Kvistgaard, Denmark, gave the U.S. National Arboretum a single plant— Thuja standishii x plicata. From this plant, the clone named 'Green Giant' was propagated. Green giant arborvitae rapidly became a popular plant and is a good alternative for hemlock in the Northeast and Leland cypress in the Southeast. Linnaeus, the Swedish botanist who assigned the Latin name to this species, picked up on one of the plants more sensory traits. Its natural pyramidal to conical form boasts dense, rich green foliage that darkens or bronzes slightly in the winter. This is an exceptional landscape tree for use as a screen, hedge or single specimen.