The short answer is at least once a day, every day. Some people choose to shower in the evening before bed because a hot shower or bath is settling and allows for a good nights sleep. People that shower in the morning often do so for the exact opposite reason. The thing that you must understand about your body is no matter the activity that you are doing, the body sweats and secretes oil. When you do not bathe or shower regularly, these bugs multiply into millions. As a result, horrible skin rashes may appear. If you do not have good personal hygiene, the best way to improve it is to make a schedule if you have too.
Of course, how often you shower depends on your level of activity, how healthy you are (if you work out often and eat healthfully, you naturally produce less body odor) and what you do for a living. And, I would add to that list: It depends on the season too. Confession: I only shower three times a week, and I wash my hair on one of those occasions — but that's just because it's winter. In the summer, I shower every day, but most of those are just rinses in lukewarm water, sans soap so I don't dry out my skin.
It's best to shower once every other day. If you take a full shower every day, it will dry out your skin and strip it of its natural defenses against bacteria and such. A lot … of people think that you should shower every day, but the truth is, that's just not healthy. It really depends on your body. I have a child with eczema and she can only shower 2x a week. The more you shower and the type of soap you use also can dry your skin out. For over weight people they should shower more making sure they pay attention to folds of skin, bacteria and yeast like to get trapped there.
Pediatricans tell you that you don't need to bathe a baby every day on account of how much it dries out their skin (But Google any thread on how often you should bathe your baby, and you'll see everything from nightly to daily). They found that 65 percent of people showered every day, with 21 percent showering every other day, 10 percent going it once a week, and 4 percent showering actually more than once a day. Far as I'm concerned, the day after a shower is the best day on earth, day two is totally enjoyable, and day three is dire.
Confidence votes 262. It's best to shower once every other day. If you take a full shower every day, it will dry out your skin and strip it of its natural defenses against bacteria and such. A lot of people think that you should shower every day, but the truth is, that's just not healthy. Also, it's unhealthy to wash your hair with shampoo every day. Once or twice a week with shampoo is best. Personally, I take a full shower every three days, and on the off days I use a wet washcloth to wash off the sweat.
As often as needed     Rangutan: you don't have to shower at all if you bath.   Sportsmen shower twice or more a day, swimmers only after leaving the pool.   Onc … e a day for the normal person but the problem is morning or night, so best is twice a day if you are active and once every two days if you are idle. It really depends on your body. I have a child with eczema and she can only shower 2x a week. The more you shower and the type of soap you use also can dry your skin out. For over weight people they should shower more making sure they pay attention to folds of skin, bacteria and yeast like to get trapped there.
It's conventional wisdom that the more you shower, the cleaner you are. Lathering up with a healthy dose of soap and washing it off with a nice stream of hot water should kill any germs on your skin. Studies by medical researchers have shown quite the opposite, however. Anytime you take a shower -- especially a hot one -- with soap and a scrubbing device like a washcloth or a loofah, you're undermining the integrity of your skin's horny layer. The soap and the hot water dissolve the lipids in the skin and scrubbing only hastens the process