Mercury forms useful compounds with other elements. Mercuric chloride (HgCl 2) is a very poisonous salt and was once used to disinfect wounds. Mercurous chloride (Hg 2 Cl 2), also called calomel, is an antiseptic used to kill bacteria. Mercuric sulfide (HgS) is used to make a red paint pigment called vermilion. History and Uses: Mercury was known to the ancient Chinese and Hindus and has been found in 3500 year old Egyptian tombs. Mercury is not usually found free in nature and is primarily obtained from the mineral cinnabar (HgS). Spain and Italy produce about half of the world's supply of Mercury.
A heavy, silvery d-block element, mercury is the only metallic element that is liquid at standard conditions for temperature and pressure; the only other element that is liquid under these conditions is bromine, though metals such as caesium, gallium, and rubidium melt just above room temperature. Contents. 1 On the periodic table of elements, the chemical symbol for mercury is Hg, from the Latin word-Hydrargyrum-meaning liquid silver. 2  For quite some time, we have known that high concentrations of mercury can be toxic to humans; the first account of mercury poisoning was recorded as early as 50 B.C.
It can be extremely poisonous to humans. The symbol Hg that mercury is known by comes from its Greek name, hydrargyrum, which means liquid silver — to reflect its shiny surface. The element is also known as quicksilver for its mobility. Named after the fastest-moving planet in the solar system, mercury has been known to humanity for ages. In fact, evidence of its use has been found in China, India and Egypt, and traces of mercury were found in 3,500-year-old Egyptian tombs. Mercury is a very toxic element.
Mercury is a transition metal. A transition metal is one of the elements found between Groups 2 (IIA) and 13 (IIIA) on the periodic table. The periodic table is a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to one another. Mercury has long been known as quicksilver, because it is a silver liquid. 
Mercury is a naturally occurring element found in rocks, soil, water, air and living things. Mercury is the only metal that is liquid at room temperature. 
Mercury occurs in deposits throughout the world mostly as cinnabar (mercuric sulfide). The red pigment vermilion, a pure form of mercuric sulfide, is mostly obtained by reaction of mercury (produced by reduction from cinnabar) with sulfur. Mercury(I) chloride, a colorless solid also known as calomel, is really the compound with the formula Hg 2 Cl 2, with the connectivity Cl-Hg-Hg-Cl. It is a standard in electrochemistry. It reacts with chlorine to give mercuric chloride, which resists further oxidation.
1 The modern element symbol for mercury is Hg, which is the symbol for another name for mercury: hydrargyrum. 2  Hydrargyrum comes from Greek words for water-silver (hydr-means water, argyros means silver). 3  Mercury is a very rare element in the Earth's crust. 4  It accounts for only about only 0.08 parts per million (ppm). 1 Mercury is a very rare element in the Earth's crust. 2  It accounts for only about only 0.08 parts per million (ppm). 3  Mercury generally is not allowed on aircraft because it combines so readily with aluminum, a metal that is common on aircraft.
A heavy, silvery d-block element, mercury is the only metallic element that is liquid at standard conditions for temperature and pressure; the only other element that is liquid under these conditions is bromine, though metals such as caesium, gallium, and rubidium melt just above room temperature. Mercury(I) chloride, a colorless solid also known as calomel, is really the compound with the formula Hg 2 Cl 2, with the connectivity Cl-Hg-Hg-Cl. It is a standard in electrochemistry. It reacts with chlorine to give mercuric chloride, which resists further oxidation.
Mercury (element) is a chemical element with symbol Hg and atomic number 80. It is commonly known as quicksilver and was formerly named hydrargyrum (/haɪˈdrɑrdʒərəm/). 1 On the periodic table of elements, the chemical symbol for mercury is Hg, from the Latin word-Hydrargyrum-meaning liquid silver. 2  For quite some time, we have known that high concentrations of mercury can be toxic to humans; the first account of mercury poisoning was recorded as early as 50 B.C.