1 Coronary artery disease: Stable plaques in the heart's arteries cause angina (chest pain on exertion). 2  Sudden plaque rupture and clotting causes heart muscle to die. 3  This is a heart attack, or myocardial infarction. This progressive process silently and slowly blocks arteries, putting blood flow at risk. Atherosclerosis is the usual cause of heart attacks, strokes, and peripheral vascular disease -- what together are called  cardiovascular disease .. Cardiovascular disease is the No. 1 killer in America, with more than 800,000 deaths in 2005
Atherosclerosis (also known as arteriosclerotic vascular disease or ASVD) is a specific form of arteriosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of invasion and accumulation of white blood cells (WBCs) (foam cell) and proliferation of intimal smooth muscle cell creating a fibrofatty plaque. 
In this article. Atherosclerosis -- sometimes called hardening of the arteries -- can slowly narrow and harden the arteries throughout the body. When atherosclerosis affects the arteries of the heart, it’s called coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease is the No. 1 killer of Americans. 
As atherosclerosis is the commonest cause of arteriosclerosis, the two terms are often used interchangeably. Arteriosclerotic heart disease (ASHD), also called coronary artery disease (CAD) or coronary heart disease (CHD), refers to arteriosclerosis of heart or coronary arteries. In the case of arteriosclerotic heart disease, where heart arteries are affected, symptoms can include chest pain (angina), sweating, abnormal heart rhythms, shortness of breath, and congestive heart failure or heart attack when the supply of blood and oxygen to a heart muscle is blocked.
Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis. Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis are different conditions: 1  Arteriosclerosis is the stiffening or hardening of the artery walls. 2  Atherosclerosis is the narrowing of the artery because of plaque build-up. 3  Atherosclerosis is a specific type of arteri
The plaques of atherosclerosis cause the three main kinds of cardiovascular disease 1  : Coronary artery disease: Stable plaques in the heart's arteries cause angina (chest pain on exertion). 2  Sudden plaque rupture and clotting causes heart muscle to die. 3  This is a heart attack, or myocardial infarction. This progressive process silently and slowly blocks arteries, putting blood flow at risk. Atherosclerosis is the usual cause of heart attacks, strokes, and peripheral vascular disease -- what together are called  cardiovascular disease .. Cardiovascular disease is the No. 1 killer in America, with more than 800,000 deaths in 2005
Knowledge center. Atherosclerosis (or arteriosclerotic vascular disease) is a condition where the arteries become narrowed and hardened due to an excessive build up of plaque around the artery wall. The disease disrupts the flow of blood around the body, posing serious cardiovascular complications. Arteriosclerosis and atherosclerosis are different conditions: 1  Arteriosclerosis is the stiffening or hardening of the artery walls. 2  Atherosclerosis is the narrowing of the artery because of plaque build-up.
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
Atherosclerosis is a disease in which plaque builds up inside your arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygen-rich blood to your heart and other parts of your body. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. Over time, plaque hardens and narrows your arteries. Coronary Heart Disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease, occurs when plaque builds up in the coronary arteries. These arteries supply oxygen-rich blood to your heart.