A swollen tongue is a symptom of a variety of diseases, disorders and conditions. Some causes of a swollen tongue are serious, even life threatening, such as an anaphylactic reaction. Other causes may be relatively mild, such as a small cut when you have bitten your tongue. Allergic causes of a swollen tongue. A swollen tongue can be due to mild and serious allergies and allergic reactions including: Insect bite allergy, such as from a bee sting. Drug allergy (penicillin or codeine). Food allergy.
A swollen tongue is an abnormal condition in which the entire tongue or a portion of it is enlarged, bloated or distended. Your tongue is made up of muscles and the upper surface is lined with taste buds. Your tongue helps you to talk, swallow, taste and chew. A swollen tongue can result from infection, inflammation, allergy, genetic disorders, trauma, malignancy, metabolic diseases, and other abnormal processes.
Other causes of swollen tongue. Acromegaly which is the name of a hormonal disorder. The condition makes the body produce excessive growth hormone which results in the body tissues getting enlarged. Genetic disorders like the Down syndrome. Hypothyroidism (a thyroid that is not as active as it should be). 
1 Medical illness. 2  Very slow swelling of the tongue over weeks or months can occur in a condition called amyloid, a disease in which harmful amyloid proteins are deposited into tissues and organs.  3 With [amyloid], the tongue gets bigger and bigger over time, says Feldweg. 4  Irritants and trauma. 1 In addition to allergic reactions to medications, allergic reactions to other substances — such as foods or bee stings — can cause swelling. 2  In food allergies and bee sting allergies, the tongue can swell, but it is less common to have a swollen tongue than it is to have a swollen throat or lips. 3  Infection.
There are many possible causes of a swollen tongue. A swollen tongue can result from such abnormal processes as infection, inflammation, allergy, genetic disorders, trauma, malignancy and metabolic diseases. Some causes of a swollen tongue are serious, even life-threatening, such as a anaphylactic reaction. Glossitis causes a swollen tongue due to a variety of infectious or inflammatory conditions. Infectious conditions include a tongue bacterial infection, yeast infection or viral infection, such as herpes simplex.
Here’s a look at some common causes. 1  Medications. 2  Many cases of a swollen tongue are the result of a reaction to a medication such as an ACE inhibitor, used to treat high blood pressure, or an NSAID, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, such as aspirin, ibuprofen [Advil, Motrin], or naproxen [Aleve, Naprosyn]. 1 In addition to allergic reactions to medications, allergic reactions to other substances — such as foods or bee stings — can cause swelling. 2  In food allergies and bee sting allergies, the tongue can swell, but it is less common to have a swollen tongue than it is to have a swollen throat or lips. 3  Infection.
Swelling of the tongue can occur due to inflammation of the tongue (known as glossitis), the presence of abnormal substances (such as amyloid protein) in the tongue, the collection of fluid in the tongue as a result of different disease processes, or tumors that infiltrate the tissues of the tongue. A dramatically swollen tongue can lead to breathing problems and may be a medical emergency. Treatment of allergic reactions that include swollen tongue can include epinephrine, antihistamines, and/or steroid medications.
A: The most common cause of new or come-and-go tongue swelling (or swelling of the lip or throat) is a type of allergic reaction called angioedema.. Sudden tongue swelling can sometimes be dangerous because it could block your airway. Two types of angioedema can lead to a swollen tongue: 1. If the tongue is so swollen that it's obstructing the airway, a breathing tube may need to be placed temporarily. 2. Angioedema from other causes. In some forms of angioedema, a body chemical called bradykinin causes the tongue swelling. Tongue and mouth swelling is usually the only symptom.
1 Allergens. 2  In addition to allergic reactions to medications, allergic reactions to other substances — such as foods or bee stings — can cause swelling. 3  In food allergies and bee sting allergies, the tongue can swell, but it is less common to have a swollen tongue than it is to have a swollen throat or lips. 4  Infection. 1 In addition to allergic reactions to medications, allergic reactions to other substances — such as foods or bee stings — can cause swelling. 2  In food allergies and bee sting allergies, the tongue can swell, but it is less common to have a swollen tongue than it is to have a swollen throat or lips. 3
An enlarged or swollen tongue can also occur as an allergic reaction to medications or other substances. In this case, the swelling is due to fluid accumulation in the tissues of the tongue, medically known as angioedema. A dramatically swollen tongue can lead to breathing problems and may be a medical emergency. Treatment of allergic reactions that include swollen tongue can include epinephrine, antihistamines, and/or steroid medications.