Spacing & Depth. Plant seeds of all varieties one inch deep. Plant seeds of bush beans 2 to 4 inches apart in rows at least 18 to 24 inches apart. Plant seeds of pole beans 4 to 6 inches apart in rows 30 to 36 inches apart; or in hills (four to six seeds per hill) 30 inches apart, with 30 inches between rows. 
Harvest green beans when the pods are slender and 4 to 5 inches long. Green beans thrive in average well-drained soil with a pH between 6.0 and 6.8. These rapid growers require consistent watering and suffer if the soil dries excessively, especially in hot weather. However, they require more time to reach maturity. Pole beans, such as Kentucky Wonder and Kentucky Blue, produce tender green pods that mature in 65 to 75 days.
Pole-style green beans are a space-saver in a garden. Because they grow upward, they take one-half the space it takes to grow bush beans, and they produce more beans than bush beans over a longer season. Kentucky Wonder is an heirloom pole bean variety that produces 8-inch long pods on 6- to 8-foot long vines.
Full sun situations are preferable in temperatures that are at least 60 degrees Fahrenheit. Pole beans need a support structure at least 6 feet high and the vines can grow 5 to 10 feet long. Pole beans need at least an inch of water per week and should not be allowed to dry out but also cannot tolerate soggy soils. Beans need a little help climbing their support structure, especially when young. How to Plant Pole Beans. Sow the seeds 4 to 8 inches apart in rows that are 24 to 36 inches apart in rows. Push the seeds one inch and lightly brush soil over them. When planting them in hills, sow four to six seeds at even intervals around the hill. Water after planting until the top 2 to 3 inches of soil are damp
Bush green beans, such as Tender Pod and Blue Lake, are the staple of many home gardens, as they require little space to grow and produce an abundant crop of fresh beans in 50 to 55 days depending on the variety. However, they require more time to reach maturity. Pole beans, such as Kentucky Wonder and Kentucky Blue, produce tender green pods that mature in 65 to 75 days.
So here is my dilemma if they really will produce until frost. My beans are about 4 ft away from my paste tomato beds and the beans are 8 ft tall. The tomatoes are approaching 5 ft now and I suspect they will get about 6 ft tall. The tomatoes are more or less on the west side of my beans and right now they are shaded by the beans in the morning. 
Pole beans grow to heights of 10 feet or more and require staking. Many prefer the increased size and rich flavor of pole beans to that of bush beans. However, they require more time to reach maturity. Pole beans, such as Kentucky Wonder and Kentucky Blue, produce tender green pods that mature in 65 to 75 days.
1 Pole beans: Set up trellises, or “cattle panels,” and plant 3 inches apart. 2  If you like pole beans, an easy support for them is a “cattle panel”—a portable section of wire fence—16 feet long and 5 feet tall. 3  The beans will climb with ease, and you won’t have to get into contorted positions to pick them. Pick regularly as the plant will flower and mature the pods for 5 to 6 weeks on pole types. Pole beans generally produce pods over a very long time period so only one or two plantings are necessary each year for continuous production.
edweather (Zone 5a/b Central NY) June 30, 2011. I'm growing pole beans this year for the first time, and they are 5 feet tall crawling up the trellis, and no flowers yet. I kind of assumed that they would flower quickly like bush beans, but apparently not. Comment7 Bookmark Like.