Humidity has three types; absolute humidity, specific humidity, and relative humidity. Relative humidity, in many cases, is often expressed as only “humidity” and is most often associated and compared with the dew point temperature. All forms of humidity are expressed in percentages. In the simplest sense, both dew point and humidity are two different ways of looking at the same thing which, in this instance, is the amount or quantity of water vapor in the air or, in the broader scope, the atmosphere.
That apparent temperature is derived by combining the air temperature with the relative humidity. The relationship is shown in the following figure. Heat index. For example, if the temperature is 90 degrees and the relative humidity is 50 percent, the heat index, or apparent temperature, is 93 degrees. At that level, the following table tells us that sunstroke, heat cramps, and exhaustion become possible with prolonged exposure and physical activity. 
In general, every one of us knows the meaning of concepts of temperature and humidity. After all, who doesn’t know that temperature is a measure of how hot or how cold an object is. Similarly, humidity refers to the presence of moisture in air and the amount of water content in air decides how humid it is. But how the two concepts are related and what the difference between temperature and humidity is what confuses many. There is another concept called relative humidity which is a percentage of the actual amount of water vapor present in air to what air can hold at that temperature in theory. Hygrometers are used to measure humidity present in air. Let us see how humidity affects us in summers.
A: The old adage is, It's not the heat, it's the humidity.. However, sometimes it is just plain hot. Relative humidity is just a measure of the amount of water vapor actually in the air compared to the amount of water vapor that could be in the air at a given temperature and pressure. Dew point is a measure of how much water vapor is actually in the air. Relative humidity is a measure of the amount of water in the air compared with the amount of water the air can hold at the temperature it happens to be when you measure it.
Humidity is the amount of moisture in the air (in grams per cubic meter for example), but relative humidity is a percentage that shows a comparison between the amount of vapor present and the amount the air can hold (at the maximum) at a given temperature. 
Dew point is a temperature at which dew droplets would form. So if the dew point is 75, and the air temperature is 75, you’d see fog or dew. But look what happens with relative humidity. Assume a constant dew point of 72: when the air temperature is 90, relative humidity is just 55 percent. “That seems almost comfortable, but you walk out here and we’re sweating,” Shaffer said. If it’s 100 and the dew point is 72, relative humidity would be 40 percent
A: The amount of water in the air is given by absolute humidity, typically measured in grams per cubic meter. Relative humidity is a ratio of how much water vapor is in a given volume of air compared with the amount of water vapor that would saturate the air at a given temperature and pressure. Because its a ratio, relative humidity is given as a percentage. Dew point is a measure of how much water vapor is actually in the air. Relative humidity is a measure of the amount of water in the air compared with the amount of water the air can hold at the temperature it happens to be when you measure it.
Difference between Temperature and Humidity. • Temperature is a measure of heat whereas humidity is a measure of the amount of water vapor present in air. • Temperature of air is governed by solar radiation and higher solar energy means higher temperature of air. There is another concept called relative humidity which is a percentage of the actual amount of water vapor present in air to what air can hold at that temperature in theory. Hygrometers are used to measure humidity present in air. Let us see how humidity affects us in summers.
Absolute Humidity, often just referred to as 'the humidity', is a measure of the actual amount of water vapour in a particular sample of air: measured as a partial pressure (vapour pressure/hPa or millibars); a mixing ratio (gm water vapour/kg of dry air), dew point etc. Relative Humidity-expressed commonly as a percentage value, is the ratio of the actual amount of water vapour present in a sample (the Absolute Humidity) to that amount that would be needed to saturate that particular sample.