So all is not fine about DNA s discovery, we have to be very careful about the ill uses of this technology. DNA, the acronym for Deoxyribonucleic Acid, stands for the key foundation on which the structure of life is built. It is the set of instructions contained within the DNA and the difference in these instructions from one DNA to the other that results in one human being different from the other.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). The abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, the primary carrier of genetic information found in the chromosomes of almost all organisms. The entwined double structure allows the chromosomes to be copied exactly during cell division.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). A type of nucleic acid that constitutes the molecular basis of heredity. It is found principally in the nucleus of all cells where it forms part of the chromosome, or in the cytoplasm of cells lacking a nucleus, such as bacteria.
DNA. Short for deoxyribonucleic acid. The nucleic acid that is the genetic material determining the makeup of all living cells and many viruses. It consists of two strands of nucleotides linked together in a structure resembling a ladder twisted into a spiral.
DNA, n an acronym for deoxyribonucleic acid. A type of nucleic acid that contains genetic instructions for the development of cellular life forms. Capable of replicating itself and of producing another type of nucleic acid known as RNA. n the DNA specific to a bacterial strain.
Deoxyribonucleic acid is a phosphorous containing compound, as opposed to a protein which is a sulphur containing compound and the name refers to the chemicals that it consists of. Deoxyribose-This is a sugar, known chemically as a pentose, a five-carbon sugar.
deoxyribonucleic acid, desoxyribonucleic acid, DNA (noun). (biochemistry) a long linear polymer found in the nucleus of a cell and formed from nucleotides and shaped like a double helix; associated with the transmission of genetic information. see more on Definitions.net ».