Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, most commonly known as NMR spectroscopy, is a research technique that exploits the magnetic properties of certain atomic nuclei. It determines the physical and chemical properties of atoms or the molecules in which they are contained. However a frequency scale is commonly used to designate the NMR signals, even though the spectrometer may operate by sweeping the magnetic field, and thus the 42 ppm is 4200 Hz for a 100 MHz reference frequency (rf).
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy, or NMR as it is usually called, is the same as a medical technique you may have heard of, MRI or Magnetic Resonance Imaging. They changed the name for use in the medical field because the word nuclear might scare some people. No one wants to get nuked! 
How a C-13 NMR spectrum gives you information about the structure of a molecule. Proton NMR Background to proton NMR. . . An explanation of how a proton (1H) NMR spectrum arises, and the meaning of the term chemical shift. Low resolution NMR spectra. . . How a low resolution NMR spectrum is used to identify where the hydrogen atoms in a molecule are. Read this before you go on to high resolution spectra. The sections on C-13 NMR and proton NMR are written so that they are entirely independent of each other. Obviously I have no way of telling whether you need one of these or both-and if both, what order you need to do them in.
The C-13 NMR spectrum for a more complicated compound This is the C-13 NMR spectrum for 1-methylethyl propanoate (also known as isopropyl propanoate or isopropyl propionate). This time there are 5 lines in the spectrum. That means that there must be 5 different environments for the carbon atoms in the compound. The carbon in the CH2 group is attached to 2 hydrogens, a carbon and an oxygen. The two lines are in different places in the NMR spectrum because they need different external magnetic fields to bring them in to resonance at a particular radio frequency.
Welcome to SpectraSchool. Welcome to the introduction to spectroscopy page. Here you will find an explanation of the principles for a range of spectroscopic techniques including infrared (IR), ultraviolet-visible (UV/Vis) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). 
This page describes what a C-13 NMR spectrum is and how it tells you useful things about the carbon atoms in organic molecules. The background to C-13 NMR spectroscopy. The carbon in the CH2 group is attached to 2 hydrogens, a carbon and an oxygen. The two lines are in different places in the NMR spectrum because they need different external magnetic fields to bring them in to resonance at a particular radio frequency.
This page describes what a C-13 NMR spectrum is and how it tells you useful things about the carbon atoms in organic molecules. The background to C-13 NMR spectroscopy Nuclear magnetic resonance is concerned with the magnetic properties of certain nuclei. The carbon in the CH2 group is attached to 2 hydrogens, a carbon and an oxygen. The two lines are in different places in the NMR spectrum because they need different external magnetic fields to bring them in to resonance at a particular radio frequency.
Features of a C-13 NMR spectrum. The C-13 NMR spectrum for ethanol. This is a simple example of a C-13 NMR spectrum. Don't worry about the scale for now-we'll look at that in a minute. The carbon in the CH2 group is attached to 2 hydrogens, a carbon and an oxygen. The two lines are in different places in the NMR spectrum because they need different external magnetic fields to bring them in to resonance at a particular radio frequency.
Background to proton NMR. . . An explanation of how a proton (1 H) NMR spectrum arises, and the meaning of the term chemical shift. Low resolution NMR spectra. . . How a low resolution NMR spectrum is used to identify where the hydrogen atoms in a molecule are. The sections on C-13 NMR and proton NMR are written so that they are entirely independent of each other. Obviously I have no way of telling whether you need one of these or both-and if both, what order you need to do them in.