Gdiplus.dll is a graphical library introduced in ~2001 by Microsoft to make two-dimensional drawing easier. It runs on top of gdi32, and besides the changes in the programming model it also adds new features such as gradient fills, anti-aliasing, more extensive image handling, etc. Getting gdiplus.dll error is a big trouble for the computer operation and various performances on the computer, as this DLL file is an important component for the Microsoft Windows operating system and specially used to control the many graphical interface components on the system.
Gdiplus.dll is a Windows DLL file. DLL is the abbreviation for D ynamic L ink L ibrary. DLL files are needed by programs or web browser extensions, because they contain program code, data, and resources. You can fix your gdiplus.dll problem by downloading the correct gdiplus.dll file. The following information can help you determine if gdiplus.dll is a Windows system file or if it belongs to an application that you can trust. Click to Run a Free Scan for gdiplus.dll related errors
If you've recently been getting errors with gdiplus.dll it's recommend you unisntall or re-install any programs recently that may have generated this error. If this does not resolve your issue or you have not installed any program recently try recovering Windows back to a earlier copy. 
gdiplus.dll which contains libraries for the GDI graphics interface. gdiplus.dll is a system process that is needed for your PC to work properly. It should not be removed. Check your system now to identify unused processes that are slowing down your computer. However this can also be a symptom of a virus or trojan infection. Make sure you always use an updated antivirus and run a full scan. gdiplus.dll is known to have 2 other instances: gdiplus.dll belongs to Power2Go, a high-performance CD, DVD and Blu-Ray disc burning ...
GDI+ is also supported by Microsoft Win64. Here is what I say about it: You may have several copies of gdiplus.dll on your system depending on what applications you have installed and what version of the Microsoft C++ Redistributes you have installed. It doesn't mean you have to have any C++ development stuff installed, but some applications need to use the DLL to work properly. The program(s) that need to use the gdiplus.dll file will pull the copy they need from the right place at the right time when they need it. If you would say where you discovered the mysterious gdiplus file (what is the complete folder path to the file), then you would know what program installed it and put it there.
If the gdiplus.dll file is not in the DLL Cache, or the DLL Cache is corrupted, you will be prompted to insert the Windows installation disc to recover the original files. To run System File Checker (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. If your gdiplus.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling May 2012 Security Release ISO Image-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu.
gdiplus.dll. Click here to run a scan if you are experiencing issues with this process. Process name: Microsoft GDI+. Application using this process: Microsoft GDI+. Recommended: Scan your system for invalid registry entries. However this can also be a symptom of a virus or trojan infection. Make sure you always use an updated antivirus and run a full scan. gdiplus.dll is known to have 2 other instances: gdiplus.dll belongs to Power2Go, a high-performance CD, DVD and Blu-Ray disc burning ...
Windows GDI+ is a class-based API for C/C++ programmers. It enables applications to use graphics and formatted text on both the video display and the printer. Applications based on the Microsoft Win32 API do not access graphics hardware directly. Instead, GDI+ interacts with device drivers on behalf of applications. Where applicable. GDI+ functions and classes are not supported for use within a Windows service. Attempting to use these functions and classes from a Windows service may produce unexpected problems, such as diminished service performance and run-time exceptions or errors.
Gdiplus.dll is a type of DLL file associated with May 2012 Security Release ISO Image developed by Microsoft for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Gdiplus.dll is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. This DLL file carries a popularity rating of 1 stars and a security rating of UNKNOWN. If your gdiplus.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling May 2012 Security Release ISO Image-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu.