Although no formal long-term follow-up was done on members of the Poison Squad, anecdotal reports indicate that none were harmed. According to William O. Robinson of Falls Church, Va., the human guinea pigs suffered no permanent illness or injury. 
Jonestown  was the informal name for the Peoples Temple Agricultural Project formed by the Peoples Temple, an American religious organization under the leadership of Jim Jones, in northwestern Guyana. Jones reached an agreement to guarantee that Guyana would permit Temple members' mass migration. To do so, he stated that Temple members were skilled and progressive, showed off an envelope he claimed had $500,000, and stated that he would invest most of the group's assets in Guyana.
Poison is an American glam metal band that achieved great commercial success in the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s. Poison has sold over 45 million records worldwide and have sold 15 million records in the United States alone. In 2010, Poison was portrayed by a Poison tribute band in the film Hot Tub Time Machine. Every Rose Has its Thorn, Nothing But a Good Time and Talk Dirty to Me featured in the 2012 film Rock of Ages.
Peter Criss-George Peter John Criscuola Mark Leslie Norton Present members are Paul Stanley, Gene Simmons, Tommy Thayer and Eric Singer. Past members are Peter Criss, Vinnie Vincent, Ace Frehley, Eric Carr, Bruce Kulick, Mark St. John. + 35 others found this useful. 
Poison. When Poison members heard a politician complaining that rock music is poison, they felt like they hit jackpot. Poison has a meaning that suits rock and roll and partying and mocks the viewpoints of conservatives. 
Initally, for the first month or so there were other members (Edge's older brother being one of them) however, the band (which wasnt called U2 at the time) was nothing more than a group of kids in a garage at that point and they were long gone by the time U2 launched any material. 1 person found this useful. 
They released a brand new album, Hollyweird, in 2002 and in 2006 the band celebrated their 20-year anniversary with The Best of Poison: 20 Years of Rock tour and album, which was certified Gold and marked Poison's return to the Billboard top 20 charts for the first time since 1993. In 2010, Poison was portrayed by a Poison tribute band in the film Hot Tub Time Machine. Every Rose Has its Thorn, Nothing But a Good Time and Talk Dirty to Me featured in the 2012 film Rock of Ages.
Poison is a hard rock band that formed in the Los Angeles area in the early 1980s. Most of the band members were originally from Pennsylvania, and moved to Los Angeles. The original band consisted of Bret Michaels on vocals and guitar, Rikki Rockett on drums, Bobby Dall on bass, and Matt Smith on lead guitar. This lineup was originally known as Paris. Their first album, Look What The Cat Dragged In, released in 1986, had the four members decked out with lots of hairspray and makeup on the cover. People at first believed that this was an all girl rock group, and sales soared.
The members of thePeoples Temple settlement in Guyana, under the direction of theReverend Jim Jones, fed a poison-laced drink to their children,administered the potion to their infants, and drank it themselves.Their bodies were found lying together, arm in arm; over 900perished. 
Look up poison, poisonous, or poisons in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Poison is a substance that causes injury, illness, or death. 1 Poison (game) , a children's game. 2  In software engineering, a poison is a special value given to uninitialized or freed memory; reading this memory provides only dummy data (however identifiable) or may cause the software to voluntarily be trapped (e.g. pointer to nowhere).