Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years. An ADN, which takes about two years to complete, averages about $3,200 for the 2013-2014 school year, according to College Board's Trends in College Pricing report. As an example Pima Medical Institute offers a nursing program that costs $15,052 per academic year (two semesters).
A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program. A: If you want to become a nurse practitioner you will need a bachelor's of science in nursing degree which has duration of four years. Once you are done with this, you will need to enroll in a master's of science
Minimum degree you'll need to practice: You must be a registered nurse with a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) . Certification: You must become certified by your State Board of Nursing or receive a national certification from an agency such as the National Certification Corporation. Neonatal Nurse Specialist Education. Entry-level requirements vary by location. At a minimum, you need to meet these requirements: 1  A neonatal nurse must be a registered nurse (RN) with a four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing Degree (BSN).
Associate of Science in Nursing. Students pursuing careers as registered nurses can earn an associate degree from a nursing program or complete a 4-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) program. Associate degree programs for registered nurses typically take 2-3 years to complete. According to the BLS, the median annual salary for registered nurses was $66,640 as of 2014. The expected job growth for RNs from 2012 to 2022 is also faster than average. Job opportunities in registered nursing are expected to grow 19% due to the increasing need for health care services.
There are approximately 2.6 million job opportunities for registered nurses (RNs) in the United States, according to the U.S. Department of Labor's Bureau of Labor Statistics, and demand for RNs is expected to increase by 22 percent between 2008 and 2018. 
1 To become a neonatal nurse practitioner (NNP), you will also need a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree. 2  Many neonatal nursing schools offer this degree through a two-year Advanced Practice Neonatal Nursing (APNN) program. Neonatal Nurse Specialist Education. Entry-level requirements vary by location. At a minimum, you need to meet these requirements: 1  A neonatal nurse must be a registered nurse (RN) with a four-year Bachelor of Science in Nursing Degree (BSN).
There are three major educational paths to registered nursing-a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN), an associate degree in nursing (ADN), and a diploma. BSN programs, offered by colleges and universities, take about 4 years to complete. In 2006, 709 nursing programs offered degrees at the bachelor's level. ADN programs, offered by community and junior colleges, take about 2 to 3 years to complete. About 850 RN programs granted associate degrees. Definitely to train as a nurse. There are various programs: a 4 year degree where you earn a B.S. in nursing. A three diploma program sponsored by a hospital were you ea … rn a diploma as an R.N., an accelerated program of 2 years wheere you earn a RN. A two year college program where you earn an Associate degree.
A master’s degree is the minimum educational requirement for a nurse practitioner. To become an NP, a registered nurse must first earn a baccalaureate, then go on for at least two and sometimes three years to earn her master's as an NP. However, if a nurse chooses to do so, she may also continue her education to the level of a nursing doctorate.
Usually there are two options. You can go to community college and become a Registered Nurse in two years with an Associates degree. Or you can go to a four-year university, or college, and receive a Bachelor's of Science in Nursing. You will also need clinical training and will be required to sit for the NCLEX. Normally, a minimum of 2 years of college. The exact education and training requirements are varied from State to State. A minimum of two years is normally required and a four year mandate is normal with a degree as an RN(BSN) being common. This really depends on the level of nursing. For instance at 4 year schools a Registered Nurse (RN)takes 4 years, which with the bachelors degree is usually referred to as a BSN. Licensed Practical Nurse (LPN) at the same school might take 2 years. Then there is Community Colleges and some state colleges, where an RN can be earned in 2 years, or an LPN in 1 year