1 Crumble in the ground meat, and mix thoroughly with your hands. 2  Threaten to touch someone with your gross meat-covered hands (optional). 3  Shape into 8 dozen small meatballs 1 to 1 1/2 inches in diameter. 4  Place on baking pans and bake for 20 to 30 minutes, or until done-if you're not sure, cut one in half to check. 1 Pour the soup mixture over the meatballs evenly. 2  Bake this at 350 for about an hour. 3  You want the sauce to get real thick and rich. 4  We usually serve this over rice, but it can go over noodles or mashed potatoes, or on bread or a roll for a hot sandwich.
7. Bake the meatballs. Put the baking sheet with the meatballs in the oven for 20- 30 minutes. Cook them until the meatballs are brown and lightly crisped all over. 
1 Now, take a can of cream of mushroom soup, and a can of cream of shrimp soup. 2  Mix them together, and add about 1/2 cup milk, just enough to let you mix it smoothly. 3  Pour the soup mixture over the meatballs evenly. 4  Bake this at 350 for about an hour. 1 Pour the soup mixture over the meatballs evenly. 2  Bake this at 350 for about an hour. 3  You want the sauce to get real thick and rich. 4  We usually serve this over rice, but it can go over noodles or mashed potatoes, or on bread or a roll for a hot sandwich.
10. PARTY MEATBALLS. Mix meatball ingredients and make small meatballs. Bake on a greased ... in 450 degree oven for 10 minutes. ... in warm dish. Makes about 100 meatballs. 
Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. In a large mixing bowl, combine the pork, lamb, ground round, spinach, cheese, egg, basil, parsley, garlic powder, salt, red pepper flakes, and 1/4 cup of the bread crumbs. Using your hands, mix all ingredients until well incorporated. Use immediately or place in refrigerator for up to 24 hour
How much time oven-baked meatballs take depends mostly on the size of the meatballs. A tray of 2-inch meatballs baked in a convection oven would take between 15 and 20 minutes. Cooking meatballs in an oven -- especially a convection oven -- is faster, cleaner and the meatballs have less fat. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit, or 25 F lower than the recipe suggests. In convection cooking, a fan circulates heat throughout the oven more efficiently than a traditional oven would. Because of this, you can reduce the heat by 25 F and also reduce total cooking time by as much as 25 percent. Place the meatballs on a rimmed baking sheet, spacing them 1 to 2 inches apart
Set the Timer. How much time oven-baked meatballs take depends mostly on the size of the meatballs. A tray of 2-inch meatballs baked in a convection oven would take between 15 and 20 minutes. Extra large meatballs may take 30 to 45 minutes, or almost the amount of time it would take to bake a meatloaf. Cooking meatballs in an oven -- especially a convection oven -- is faster, cleaner and the meatballs have less fat. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees Fahrenheit, or 25 F lower than the recipe suggests. In convection cooking, a fan circulates heat throughout the oven more efficiently than a traditional oven would. Because of this, you can reduce the heat by 25 F and also reduce total cooking time by as much as 25 percent. Place the meatballs on a rimmed baking sheet, spacing them 1 to 2 inches apart
1 Put your already baked meatballs in a baking dish. 2  The more shallow the pan, the shorter time this will need to bake. 3  Now, take a can of cream of mushroom soup, and a can of cream of shrimp soup. 4  Mix them together, and add about 1/2 cup milk, just enough to let you mix it smoothly. 1 Pour the soup mixture over the meatballs evenly. 2  Bake this at 350 for about an hour. 3  You want the sauce to get real thick and rich. 4  We usually serve this over rice, but it can go over noodles or mashed potatoes, or on bread or a roll for a hot sandwich.
***I have always baked my 1 1/2 inch meatballs at 350 degrees for approximately 25 minutes, I sacrifice the middle ones to make sure it's not pink in the middle, I make 90 at a time and freeze them in batches of 6. Report Abuse. ***I have always baked my 1 1/2 inch meatballs at 350 degrees for approximately 25 minutes, I sacrifice the middle ones to make sure it's not pink in the middle, I make 90 at a time and freeze them in batches of 6. This way they're ready for meatball sandwiches on homemade pizza, and in Lasagna.