a. Remove the frozen tuna steak from the vacuum bag, let defrost in the fridge on a plate/in a bowl, covered with a cloth or paper towel. Drain off liquid and blot tuna, let rest for 2 days up to 5 days. I think it is liquid that contains the fishy smell, removing the liquid and letting the steak air works for me. 
Photo Credit Maryurys Connolly/Demand Media. Place the ahi tuna in the pan and sear it for 2 to 3 minutes for rare to medium-rare. Turn it over with a spatula or tongs. Cook the other side for another 2 to 3 minutes for rare to medium-rare. Turn the tuna steak again and cook both sides once more for another 1 to 2 minutes each for medium or medium-well. Remove it from the pan promptly.
Transfer tuna steaks to a medium-hot grill and cook for 2 minutes. Rotate a quarter turn to get diagonal grill marks and cook the tuna for another 2 minutes for a total of 4 minutes on the first side. Turn the tuna steaks over and cook for only 2 minutes on the other side for rare or up to 4 minutes for medium.
Searing tuna steaks in a hot skillet caramelizes the surfaces of the fish and locks in the moisture. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4  Add the tuna steaks
1 Add the tuna steaks. 2  The steaks should sizzle when added. 3  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. 4  Adjust the heat as needed if the skillet gets too hot. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot.
Ahi tuna steaks are mostly grilled or seared to bring out the best in their flavour, but you can also bake them to reach a different texture. In case you are buying a piece of sushi-grade tuna, you can forego cooking and serve it raw. 1  Prep time (Searing): 10 minutes. 2  Cook time: 4-5 minutes. 3  Total time: 15 minutes. Bake the tuna. Place the baking dish in the preheated oven and bake until the skin is no longer pink and flakes when poked with a fork, about 10 to 12 minutes. The actual cooking time will depend upon on how thick your steaks are.
1 Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 2  Add the tuna steaks. 3  The steaks should sizzle when added. 4  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3 
Heat olive oil in a heavy skillet and season tuna steaks -- more than an inch thick -- with salt and pepper. Fry the steaks for just 3 minutes per side. The outside will form a crust, but the inside will remain pink. For a well-cooked steak, add a sauce and simmer until the flesh is opaque. Sear the steaks first in a saute pan of olive oil; then add a cup of white or rose wine. Bring briefly to the boil; then cover the pan and lower the heat, steaming the tuna for 10 minutes. Serve with tart-flavored Mediterranean sides such as olives, capers and red peppers.
1 Add thawed Ahi Tuna Steaks to medium hot fry pan (that’s been greased with extra virgin olive oil). 2  Add salt, pepper, and lemon pepper to Ahi Tuna Steak while it’s cooking. 3  Rub in a little bit of extra virgin olive oil. 4  Cook for 3 minutes on each side for medium rare. 5  Add one minute for medium. 
Broil the tuna for 3 minutes per side. After 3 minutes, flip the tuna steaks over to the other side and return to the broiler for an additional 3 minutes or until done. 1  Place the broiler pan on the top rack of the oven, roughly 4 inches (10 cm) away from the top heating element. Sear the tuna steaks. Add the fish to the hot oil in the pan and cook for 6 to 9 minutes. 1  The steaks should start to sizzle as soon as you add them. 2  If they do not, take them out of the pan and allow the oil to continue heating. 3  You need the oil to be hot enough to sear the tuna, trapping the moisture inside.