(L. nitrum, Gr. Nitron, native soda; genes, forming) Nitrogen was discovered by chemist and physician Daniel Rutherford in 1772. He removed oxygen and carbon dioxide from air and showed that the residual gas would not support combustion or living organisms. 
Nitrogen is pronounced as NYE-treh-gen. History and Uses: Nitrogen was discovered by the Scottish physician Daniel Rutherford in 1772. It is the fifth most abundant element in the universe and makes up about 78% of the earth's atmosphere, which contains an estimated 4,000 trillion tons of the gas. 
Nitrogen was discovered by Daniel Rutherford in 1772, who called it noxious air, but Scheele, Cavendish, Priestley, and others at about the same time studied burnt or dephlogisticated air, as air without oxygen was then called. Nitrogen: historical information. 1  Discoveror: Daniel Rutherford. 2  Place of discovery: Scotland. 3  Date of discovery: 1772. 4  Origin of name: from the Greek words  nitron genes  meaning  nitre  and  forming  and the Latin word  nitrum  (nitre is a common name for potassium nitrate, KNO#).
History. From the Latin word nitrum, Greek Nitron, native soda; and genes, forming. Nitrogen was discovered by chemist and physician Daniel Rutherford in 1772. He removed oxygen and carbon dioxide from air and showed that the residual gas would not support combustion or living organisms. However, nitrogen compounds are found in foods, organic materials, fertilizers, poisons, and explosives. Nitrogen, as a gas is colorless, odorless, and generally considered an inert element. As a liquid (boiling point = minus 195.8°C), it is also colorless and odorless, and is similar in appearance to water.
Nitrogen is a tasteless, colorless, odorless gas and chemical element. Its chemical symbol is N and atomic number is 7. It is a nonflammable gas found in the earth’s atmosphere. It was discovered by the Scottish physician and chemist Daniel Rutherford in 1772. He discovered this gas by removing oxygen and carbon dioxide from the air.
Nitrogen is a fairly common element in the Earth's crust. It is by far the most important element of the Earth's atmosphere, making up about 78.084 percent. The greatest use of nitrogen is in ammonia which is used for fertilizer production and to produce nitric acid. Until the late 1700s gases were poorly understood by chemists. They often wondered what air was made of. In the 1770's, a Scottish physician and chemist Daniel Rutherford (1749-1819) performed a simple experiment with which he discovered nitrogen.
01 Apr, 2008 Who discovered 0. Nitrogen is a chemical element with the symbol N and has an atomic number of 7. Nitrogen is a very important element for organisms and in industry. Nitrogen is a very important part of amino acids and nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Who Discovered Nitrogen. Nitrogen was discovered by David Rutherford in 1772. He called it noxious air or fixed air. By the late 18th century, most chemists knew of this fraction of air (nitrogen with some other gases) that did not combust.
Nitrogen was discovered by Daniel Rutherford in 1772 at Scotland. Origin of name: from the Greek words  nitron genes  meaning  nitre  and  forming  and the Latin word  nitrum  (nitre is a common name for potassium nitrate, KNO#). 