Laser Hair Removal Facts: How to Prepare. Once it's determined what type of laser or pulsed light machine will be used, you'll likely be told to either shave the day of your treatment or three days before. Check with your aesthetician before you show up. I've come in freshly shaved only to be sent home.
The primary steps for laser hair removal treatments include shaving, cleaning and cooling the area prior to treatment and applying a thin layer of clear gel, such as ultrasound gel, to aid in the gliding of the handpiece. The laser parameters are set based on the area and type of hair to be treated.
The number of laser hair removal treatments necessary for complete hair removal varies from person to person, and is best determined during consultation. Most patients require 4-6 hair removal treatments, spread out between 4-6 week intervals.
As with the first treatment session, however, it is perfectly fine to shave between treatments. Laser hair removal treatment is a simple procedure. Nonetheless, you should be sure to have all of your questions answered thoroughly before undergoing
Stop waxing, tweezing and electrolysis at least 3 weeks prior to your first laser hair removal session. You may continue to shave your bikini area both before and after laser hair removal. Avoid tanning, either real or artificial, for about 4 to 6 weeks before treatment. Any pigment (color) in your skin will make the laser hair removal less effective.
How do I prepare for my laser hair removal? 1  Before your first session, it is important for you to avoid waxing for six weeks. 2  You MUST stay out of the sun. 3  If you are prone to nervousness, you should avoid caffeine for 24 hours before your session. 4  On the day before your treatment, you should shave with a clean, new razor.
Preparing for your Brazilian laser hair removal session is essential, by following these guidelines not only will you achieve great results from your treatment but your session will feel much more comfortable also. Ensure you have approx. 4-6 weeks full growth before you start your very first session.