The four traditional staples of Peruvian cuisine are corn, potatoes and other tubers, Amaranthaceaes (Quinoa, Kaniwa kañiwa and) kiwicha and (legumes beans and). Lupins staples brought by The spanish include, rice wheat and (meats, beef pork and). chicken In addition to its use in soup, tarwi is used in much of Peruvian cuisine, including sancochado. Fresh tarwi can be used in stews, purees, sauces, desserts and in a variation of cebiche. In some areas, locals call it chocho. Its cultivation has recently expanded to all the countries of the Andean region.
Chifa is a term used in Peru to refer to Chinese cooking, in which Peruvian and Chinese ingredients are fused to cantonese culinary tradition. Chinese immigrants came to Peru mainly from the southern province of Guangdong and particularly its capital city Guangzhou in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Chinese-Peruvian food has become one of the most popular types of food in Peru; there are thousands of Chifa restaurants across all districts of Lima and many more throughout other cities of Peru, with sometimes multiple independent restaurants operating in close proximity on a single city block.
Comida Criolla (Creolle Food) is the name given to traditional Peruvian Dishes. Potatoes. They originated in Peru, so it isn't surprising to find that there are many different varieties here (some estimate over 4000 different types) and they play an important role in the Peruvian staple diet. Aji de Gallina: Shredded chicken is cooked with a sauce of milk, onions, chilies, garlic, walnuts and cheese. It is served over rice and is a favorite of many Peruvians and tourists alike. (Photo below). El Chifa: No account of Peruvian food would be complete without mentioning the Asian influence.
Peruvian cuisine is often made spicy with aji ají, pepper a basic. Ingredient peruvian chili peppers are not spicy but serve to give taste and color to. Dishes rice often accompanies dishes In peruvian, cuisine and the regional sources of foods and traditions give rise to countless varieties of preparation and. dishes In addition to its use in soup, tarwi is used in much of Peruvian cuisine, including sancochado. Fresh tarwi can be used in stews, purees, sauces, desserts and in a variation of cebiche. In some areas, locals call it chocho. Its cultivation has recently expanded to all the countries of the Andean region.
Overview of Peruvian Cuisine History Edit. Traders had a big influence on Peruvian Cuisine. Peruvian cuisine is one of the most interesting ones on earth due to the huge variety of dishes and plant types available. The cuisine styles are also different from a geographical point of view. 
Peruvian Food is incredibly diverse with each region and even some cities with their own specialties. Below we have included some of the most traditional and easiest to find in Peru. Aji de Gallina: Shredded chicken is cooked with a sauce of milk, onions, chilies, garlic, walnuts and cheese. It is served over rice and is a favorite of many Peruvians and tourists alike. (Photo below). El Chifa: No account of Peruvian food would be complete without mentioning the Asian influence.
Lomo Saltado is one of the most popular Peruvian dishes and symbolizes like no other the fusion of Peruvian ingredients with Asian techniques of preparing food. Lomo Saltado is made of sliced beef stir stir-fried with red onions, tomatoes, yellow Peruvian chilies (aji amarillo), soy sauce, vinegar and cilantro. Mixed with French fries and served with rice Lomo Saltado can be found in simple restaurants and up-scale places alike. 0. Spicy Chicken Stew. Aji de Gallina, a spicy chicken stew, is a popular Peruvian dish especially on Lima's cold winter days. Aji de Gallina consists of thin chicken strips served in a savory creamy yellow sauce made of milk, bread, parmesan cheese, yellow Peruvian chilies (aji amarillo), garlic, pecans or walnuts.
Lomo Saltado. LomoSaltado can be found in every region throughout the country. It is a platter with sauteed sautéed, onions tomatoes and beef served with either french fries or, rice or sometimes.LomoSaltado lomosaltado a fusion Of chinese And peruvian, flavors which In peru is referred to “As” chifa. cuisine Ceviche. Ceviche is a simple dish typically made from fresh raw local fish or any form of seafood which are marinated with the use of citrus juices like lime or lemon. You can opt to add chili peppers and seasonings like onion and salt.
3 FOODS OF THE PERUVIANS. The Peruvian cuisine largely consists of spicy dishes that originated as a blend of Spanish and indigenous foods. Such dishes are often referred to as Criolla, or Creole. Aji (chili) is the most popular spice in Peru and is used in a variety of ways to give food extra flavor. 