Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low.
High: At or above 240 mg/dL. If your total cholesterol is high, you have twice the risk for heart disease as a person with normal total cholesterol. Here is the adult range for HDL cholesterol: Normal: 35 to 65 mg/dL for men, 35 to 80 mg/dL for women. If your number is less than 25 mg/dL, your risk for coronary heart disease is doubled. If your number is between 60 and 74 mg/dL, your risk for coronary heart disease is below average
Here's a breakdown of LDL cholesterol levels and health: Less than 70 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) – this is your goal if you're at very high risk for a heart attack. Less than 100 mg/dL – the goal for people with heart disease or diabetes. 100 to 129 mg/dL – near or above the ideal level. This blood test checks the levels of cholesterol in your body. A lipid panel will show the levels of your total cholesterol, your LDL (bad) cholesterol, and your HDL (good) cholesterol. In general, the higher your total and LDL cholesterol levels, the higher your risk for coronary heart disease.
The American Heart Association categorizes your risk for heart disease based on the following LDL levels. Less than 100 mg/dL is considered optimal and up to 129 mg/dL is near optimal. Borderline high LDL ranges from 130 to 159 mg/dL and 160 to 189 mg/dL is considered high. Above that level is categorized as very high. High density lipoproteins (HDL) are categorized as the good type of cholesterol. HDL levels below 40 mg/dl for men and 50 mg/dl for women are thought to put you at a greater than average risk for heart disease. Individuals who regularly exercise can achieve HDL values over 60, lowering their relative risk for coronary artery disease.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Very High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is optimal. Congratulations! Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, and your level of bad LDL cholesterol is near optimal. Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is borderline high. If your LDL goes higher, your total cholesterol level could become Borderline High. 
The average LDL cholesterol for men is 115 mg/dL from age 25 through 29, 135 mg/dL from 35 to 39 and 145 mg/dL from age 45 to death. Women's average LDL cholesterol is 110 mg/dL from age 25 to 34, 120 mg/dL from 35 to 39, 130 mg/dL from age 45 to 49 and 150 mg/dL after age 55. Healthy LDL Ranges. The National Cholesterol Education Program reports that an LDL less than 100 mg/dL is optimal and a 100 to 129 mg/dL range is near optimal..
Target Range. Healthy LDL levels fall within the optimal target range, which is less than 100 mg/dL. If you have a history of heart disease, your target range is under 70 mg/dL. Near optimal is between 100 and 129. Levels between 130 and 159 mg/dL are considered borderline high, while over 160 mg/dL is considered high. Low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is also known as “bad” cholesterol. It is part of a blood test called lipid analysis, which checks total cholesterol, HDL and triglycerides. It is usually done to determine your risk of heart disease. 1  What Are the Normal Levels of LDL & HDL?