The annelids (Annelida, from Latin anellus, little ring), also known as the ringed worms or segmented worms, are a large phylum, with over 17,000 extant species including ragworms, earthworms, and leeches. Annelids are considered members of the Lophotrochozoa, a super-phylum of protostomes that also includes molluscs, brachiopods, flatworms and nemerteans. The basic annelid form consists of multiple segments.
Annelids are worms that get their name from the Latin word meaning ring because their bodies are generally segmented,or divided into rings.There are about 9,000 species in there main grouping, The annelids include earthworms, polychaete worms, and leeches. All members of the group are to some extent segmented, in other words, made up of segments that are formed by subdivisions that partially transect the body cavity. Segmentation is also called metamerism. 
-Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. -Body cavity is a true coelom, often divided by internal septa. -Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. -Body possesses 3 separate sections, a prosomium, a trunk and a pygidium. -Has a nervous system with an anterior nerve ring, ganglia and a ventral nerve chord. -Has a true closed circulatory system. 
2)Body has more than two cell layers, tissues and organs. 3)Body cavity is a true coelom, often divided by internal septa. 4)Body possesses a through gut with mouth and anus. 5)Body possesses 3 separate sections, a prosomium, a trunk and a pygidium. 6)Has a nervous system with an anterior nerve ring, ganglia and a ventral nerve chord. 
Annelid Characteristics. The fundamental characteristic of the phylum is the division of the body into a linear series of cylindrical segments, or metameres. Each metamere consists of a section of the body wall and a compartment of the body cavity with its internal organs. The digestive system of annelids consists of an unsegmented gut that runs through the middle of the body from the mouth, located on the underside of the head, to the anus, which is on the pygidium. The gut is separated from the body wall by the body cavity, called the coelom. The segmented compartments of the coelom are usually separated from each other by thin sheets of tissue, called septa, which are perforated by the gut and by blood vessel
By Phil Myers. The annelids include earthworms, polychaete worms, and leeches. All members of the group are to some extent segmented, in other words, made up of segments that are formed by subdivisions that partially transect the body cavity. Segmentation is also called metamerism. 
2. Nearly all annelids have a fluid-filled cavity between the outer body wall and the gut, and this is referred to as a coelom (Figure 1). The coelom is often used as a storage area for gametes and acts as a hydrostatic skeleton for locomotion. Coelom. Nearly all annelids have a fluid-filled cavity between the outer body wall and the gut, and this is referred to as a coelom (Figure 1). The coelom is often used as a storage area for gametes and acts as a hydrostatic skeleton for locomotion.
Annelida: More on Morphology. Annelids are coelomate animals; they have a fluid-filled body cavity in which the gut and other organs are suspended. Oligochaetes and polychaetes typically have spacious coeloms; in leeches, the coelom is reduced to a system of narrow canals, and archiannelids may lose the coelom entirely. 