Lewis Surname The surname of LEWIS was a baptismal name 'the son of Louis or Llewis', an ancient and still popular font name. This English surname is widely spread in Ireland where it was taken by settlers. Early records of the name mention Loweis le Briton, 1166, County Essex. Confusingly in Wales, Lewis was also used as an anglicization of the Welsh name Llywelyn, from llyw, leader, and eilyn, likeness. Llewelyn ap-Madoc, alias Lewis Rede, was archdeacon of Brecon, Wales, in 1437.
LEWIS Surname Meaning & Origin: The Lewis surname is generally derived from the Germanic given name Lewis (Lowis, Lodovicus), meaning reknowned, famous battle, from the Germanic elements hlod ‘fame’ + wig ‘war’. Lewis is also a common Americanization of several similar sounding Jewish surnames, such as Levy and Lewin. Lewis is the 26th most popular surname in the United States and the 21st most common surname in England. Surname Origin: English.
In Wales, the Lewis surname may have derived from an Anglicized form of the personal name Llywelyn. As an Irish or Scottish surname, Lewis can be an Anglicized form of the Gaelic Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh, derived from Lugh 'brightness.'. Lewis is also a common Americanization of several similar sounding Jewish surnames, such as Levy and Lewin. Lewis is the 26th most popular surname in the United States and the 21st most common surname in England. Surname Origin: English.
Lewis is the 4th most common surname in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, 6th most common surname in Wales, 22nd most common in England, 24th most common in the United States, 129th most common in Scotland, . One such name is Llywelyn in Welsh which has been Anglicised into Lewis, with among the earliest examples being the Lewis family of Glamorgan in the 1540s. Another is the Gaelic surname Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh , which has also been Anglicised as Lewis.
The name Lewis is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lewis is: Famous in war. French Meaning: The name Lewis is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Lewis is: Famous warrior, from the Old German 'Chlodovech'. Aloysius is the name of the Italian Saint Aloysius of Gonzaga, and common among British Roman Catholics. English Meaning: The name Lewis is an English
Other origins for the name Lewis include-English, German, French.The name Lewis is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-English variant of the Franco-Germanic name Louis: Famous warrior. In Wales, sometimes Lewis is used in place of Llewellyn. English name. In English, the name Lewis means-English variant of the Franco-Germanic name Louis: Famous warrior. In Wales, sometimes Lewis is used in place of Llewellyn. Famous Bearer: 19th century writer Lewis Carroll..
Answers. Best Answer: Surname: Lewis Recorded in over fifty different spellings from Lewis, Lois, Lowis and Loisi, to such as Ludovici, Lotze, Lohde, and Ludwikiewicz, throughout Europe this great and ancient name is generally accepted as being of pre 5th century Frankish origins. Confusingly in Wales, Lewis was also used as an anglicization of the Welsh name Llywelyn, from llyw, leader, and eilyn, likeness. Llewelyn ap-Madoc, alias Lewis Rede, was archdeacon of Brecon, Wales, in 1437.
Lewis is a surname in the English language. It has several independent origins. One of origins of the surname, in England and Wales, is from the Norman personal name Lowis, Lodovicus. This name is composed of the Germanic elements hlod and wig, meaning fame and war. One such name is Llywelyn in Welsh which has been Anglicised into Lewis, with among the earliest examples being the Lewis family of Glamorgan in the 1540s. Another is the Gaelic surname Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh , which has also been Anglicised as Lewis.