Both provide evidence for evolution. Homologous structures are structures that are similar in related organisms because they were inherited from a common ancestor. These structures may or may not have the same function in the descendants. Figure below shows the hands of several different mammals. They all have the same basic pattern of bones. 1 Evidence for evolution is provided by homologous structures. 2  These are structures shared by related organisms that were inherited from a common ancestor. 3  Other evidence is provided by analogous structures. 4  These are structures that unrelated organisms share because they evolved to do the same job.
Further evidence for common descent comes from genetic detritus such as pseudogenes, regions of DNA that are orthologous to a gene in a related organism, but are no longer active and appear to be undergoing a steady process of degeneration from cumulative mutations. Further evidence comes from the field of biogeography because evolution with common descent provides the best and most thorough explanation for a variety of facts concerning the geographical distribution of plants and animals across the world. This is especially obvious in the field of insular biogeography.
Homologies are anatomical features, of different organisms, that have a similar appearance or function because they were inherited from a common ancestor that also had them. For instance, the wings of a bird and a butterfly are analogous structures because they are superficially similar in shape and function. Both of these very distinct species lines solved the problem of getting off of the ground in essentially the same way. However, their wings are quite different on the inside.
Many different species of insects have mouthparts derived from the same embryonic structures, indicating that the mouthparts are modifications of a common ancestor's original features. These include a labrum (upper lip), a pair of mandibles, a hypopharynx (floor of mouth), a pair of maxillae, and a labium. Further evidence comes from the field of biogeography because evolution with common descent provides the best and most thorough explanation for a variety of facts concerning the geographical distribution of plants and animals across the world. This is especially obvious in the field of insular biogeography.
Analogies are anatomical features that have the same form or function in different species that have no known common ancestor. For instance, the wings of a bird and a butterfly are analogous structures because they are superficially similar in shape and function. Both of these very distinct species lines solved the problem of getting off of the ground in essentially the same way. However, their wings are quite different on the inside.
1 These are structures shared by related organisms that were inherited from a common ancestor. 2  Other evidence is provided by analogous structures. 3  These are structures that unrelated organisms share because they evolved to do the same job. 1 Evidence for evolution is provided by homologous structures. 2  These are structures shared by related organisms that were inherited from a common ancestor. 3  Other evidence is provided by analogous structures. 4  These are structures that unrelated organisms share because they evolved to do the same job.
Homologous structures. are similar structures that related species have inherited from a common ancestor. Organisms with homologous structures might have evolved from the same ancestor. The more similar these structures are, the more closely related the organisms probably are. The same is true for molecular evidence. 
When two species both have similar anatomical structures that were inherited from the same ancestor that also had them the similarities are referred to as being? 1 5 Common Saltwater Aquarium Fish A saltwater aquarium can provide you with a gorgeous natural ecosystem that mimics the undersea world right in your own living room. 2  But when choosing between the common salt….
When two species both have similar anatomical structures that were inherited from the same ancestor that also had them the similarities are referred to as being? 1 The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.