Uses. Spiders use silk for a variety of functions : Swathing silk for the wrapping and immobilisation of prey. Webs for catching prey using sticky silk-it is elastic to prevent the prey from rebounding off the web. Draglines which are used to connect the spider to the web, as safety lines in case a spider should fall and as the non-sticky spokes of the web. Dragline silk is the strongest kind of silk because it must support the weight of the spider. Parachuting or ballooning which is used to aid the dispersal of young and to find new areas as a food source. Silk is released and is caught by the wind to lift the spider up into the air-flying spiders!
By Debbie Hadley. Spider silk is one of the most miraculous natural substances on Earth. Most building materials are either strong or elastic, but spider silk is both. It's been described as stronger than steel (which is not quite accurate, but close), more impenetrable than Kevlar, and stretchier than nylon. The gland stores silk protein in liquid form, which isn't particularly useful for building structures like webs. When the spider needs silk, the liquefied protein passes through a canal where it gets an acid bath. As the pH of the silk protein is lowered (as it's acidified), it changes structure.
Spider silk is a fiber of protein, produced by a gland in the spider's abdomen. The gland stores silk protein in liquid form, which isn't particularly useful for building structures like webs. When the spider needs silk, the liquefied protein passes through a canal where it gets an acid bath. As the pH of the silk protein is lowered (as it's acidified), it changes structure.
Spiders use their silk to make webs or other structures, which function as nets to catch other animals, or as nests or cocoons to protect their offspring. They can also use their silk to suspend themselves. Due to the difficulties in extracting and processing substantial amounts of spider silk, the largest known piece of cloth made of spider silk is an 11-by-4-foot (3.4 by 1.2 m) textile with a golden tint made in Madagascar in 2009.
Spiders make many kinds of silk. The best known is dragline silk which the spider uses in web construction and also for hanging around. Dragline silk consists of proteins called spidroins. These are made in the spider's silk glands as a thick paste that is drawn into fibers during spinning. Once spun, the silk is strong and very tough.
Spider silk is both light and strong. Hillyard says A typical strand of garden spider silk has a diametre of about 0.003 mm (0.00012 in) in diametre, compare this with silkworm silk which is 0.03 mm in diametre or ten times as thick. Spiders can produce different kinds of silks, at least 7 or 8 different kinds. Rainer Foelix says in Biology of Spiders 2nd Ed 1996. The tenacity of spider silk is slightly less than that of Nylon (Lucas 1964), yet its elasticity is twice as high (31% vs 16%). .... In terms of tensile strength it is clearly superior to bone, tendon or cellulose, and it is half as strong as the best steel.
Spider silk is extremely strong -- it is about five times stronger than steel and twice as strong as Kevlar of the same weight. Spider silk also has the ability to stretch about 30-percent longer than its original length without breaking, which makes it very resilient. Arachnid Pictures. Spider's silk is made up of chains of amino acids. In other words, it is simply a protein (see How Food Works for details on amino acids and proteins). The two primary amino acids are glycine and alanine