In New Jersey, it takes several weeks to get your first unemployment check after you apply for benefits; once you begin receiving benefits, you can receive them once every two weeks. When you open a claim in New Jersey, it may take a few weeks for the New Jersey Department of Workforce Development to determine whether you are entitled to unemployment compensation.
Waiting Period. Once your unemployment claim is approved, you must wait one week before you begin receiving benefits. During the one-week waiting period, you must file a claim for continued benefits as usual. After the waiting period ends, if you still qualify for benefits based on the information in your claim for continued benefits, you will receive your first unemployment check. When you open a claim in New Jersey, it may take a few weeks for the New Jersey Department of Workforce Development to determine whether you are entitled to unemployment compensation.
If you are eligible to receive unemployment, your weekly benefit rate (WBR) will be 60% of your average weekly earnings during the base period, up to a maximum of $636. This number is then multiplied by the number of weeks that you worked during the base period, up to a maximum of 26 weeks. In New Jersey, as in most states, the base period is the earliest four of the five complete calendar quarters before you filed your benefits claim. For example, if you filed your claim in October of 2013, the base period would be from June 1, 2012, through May 31, 2013.
The link below will take you to a listing of the Unemployment Insurance offices to where you may report. Our offices are open Monday through Friday from 8:30 AM to 4:00 PM: http://lwd.dol.state.nj.us/labor/forms_pdfs/ui/ui_office_locations.pdf. If you and your employer contributed to the pension, 50% of your weekly pension amount will be subtracted from your unemployment benefits. If your employer contributed the entire cost of your pension, your unemployment benefits will be reduced by 100% of your weekly pension amount.Q.
In some states, there is a waiting period (one week is typical) between the time you become unemployed and when you are eligible for benefits. This means you won't receive any unemployment compensation for the first week you are out of work. The federal Department of Labor's website says that you can expect your first unemployment check two or three weeks after you apply, as long as you submit all of the required information, and no follow-up is necessary.
You can potentially collect extended benefits for 13 or 20 weeks based on the unemployment rate at that time. When the jobless rate in New Jersey is at least 6.5%, you can obtain benefits for an additional 13 weeks after your regular benefits run out. Extension Requirements. In order to be eligible for New Jersey extended benefits, you must have either worked no less than 20 weeks during your base period at a minimum weekly wage of $145, as of 2011, or earned 40 times your weekly benefit amount all through your base period.
You may file your claim by calling the New Jersey claims office that handles out-of-state claims at 1-888-795-6672. If you move out-of state while you are claiming benefits, you should immediately telephone 1-888-795-6672 and select the option to file a claim in order to report the address change. An agent will assist you in claiming benefits against New Jersey on an interstate basis. If you and your employer contributed to the pension, 50% of your weekly pension amount will be subtracted from your unemployment benefits. If your employer contributed the entire cost of your pension, your unemployment benefits will be reduced by 100% of your weekly pension amount.Q.
Payment Options. As of the publication date, New Jersey does not issue paper checks. You may have your funds directly deposited into your bank account or onto a prepaid debit card. If you do not provide a bank account when you are approved for unemployment benefits, you will receive a prepaid debit card. When you open a claim in New Jersey, it may take a few weeks for the New Jersey Department of Workforce Development to determine whether you are entitled to unemployment compensation.
A. The only methods of payment for UI benefits in the State of New Jersey are either direct deposit or debit card. If you have not provided an account for direct deposit, you will automatically be sent a prepaid debit card. You can elect to sign up for direct deposit online at www.njuifile.net.Q. A. After funds are posted, you can access your money by making purchases or withdrawing funds 24 hours a day. Your benefits are normally available 48 hours after you certify for benefits. Your money is available by 9:00 a.m. on the day the funds are posted to your debit card account.Q.