Most people do take the route of formal scientific qualifications into biology. In the UK, this amounts to doing: 1  necessary GCSE exams at 16 and suitable A-levels at 18 (though not necessarily including biology). I know people whose original qualifications (usually a university degree) were in history, medicine, physics, maths, civil engineering, modern languages, computer science or art who have gone onto successful careers as biologists and to publish science papers.
Most aspiring marine biologists head to graduate school to get their master's degree. Most scientists become more specialized in their research interests. This is the point where you really begin to train for that specific aspect of marine biology that piques your interest. 
Education and training/entrance requirements. In order to become a marine biologist you need to complete a Bachelor of Science degree majoring in marine biology, marine science, marine environment, Antarctic science or a related field at university. 
Biologists study living things like animals or plants, and the world around them, to increase our knowledge and understanding of areas such as the environment, genetics, and animal or plant biology. As a biologist, you could use your skills in a variety of ways, for example: As a biologist you would study living things like plants and animals and the world they live in. If you are interested in the natural world and enjoy practical science then there could be opportunities for you as a biologist. To become a biologist you will need to have an enquiring mind and good problem solving skills.
Most people probably think that to work as a professional biologist you need to get through all manner of degrees and qualifications. That helps, obviously-you need to work hard and learn a lot of things, but it's far from the whole story. I know people whose original qualifications (usually a university degree) were in history, medicine, physics, maths, civil engineering, modern languages, computer science or art who have gone onto successful careers as biologists and to publish science papers.
Many universities offer these programs. You will need to research these in your area. Not all universities offer graduate programs, so ask about that, too. Your undergraduate degree will likely need to be either in Biology, Chemistry, Environmental Science, or Public Policy. Environmental Science is a very hot field right now, and prospects are good for employment. A marine biologist needs to be able to work with other people such as scientists. They also needs to have a bachelors degree to be able to work in the field, most marine bios … have better luck in finding a job when they receive their PhD.
Terms like “biology” and “zoology” are general terms that refer to the scientific study of living organisms and their environments. There are many subfields of biology that study a specific section of the living world or a specific group of organisms. Most biologists develop expertise in one of these subfields. Biologists study living organisms and research how they interact and relate to the environment. Colleges and universities, government agencies, pharmaceutical companies, conservation groups, science museums, and many other sites hire biologists.
To become a marine biologist, you will likely need at least a bachelor's degree, and possibly graduate work, such as a master's or Ph.D. degree. Since marine biology jobs are competitive, it will usually be easier to get a position if you have gained relevant experience during high school or college. The salary of a marine biologist depends upon their exact position, their experience and qualifications, where they work, and what they are doing. It can range from a volunteer experience as an unpaid intern to an actual salary of about $35,000-$110,000 per year. More ».