Overview. Pangolins, often called “scaly anteaters,” are covered in tough, overlapping scales. These burrowing mammals eat ants and termites using an extraordinarily long, sticky tongue, and are able to quickly roll themselves up into a tight ball when threatened. Taxonomy. There are eight pangolin species. All pangolins belong to the genus Manis in the family Manidae, which is the only family within the order Pholidota. Pangolins’ closest living relatives are the Xenarthrans – anteaters, armadillos, and sloths.
Habitat-Home Sweet Home. The habitat of the ground pangolin species is quite widespread. They generally reside in central and southern areas of Africa, including the countries of Sudan, Ethiopia, Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Angola, Namibia, Botswana, and South Africa. 
The pangolin is a long-tailed, sticky-tongued tropical Old World (Asia and Africa) mammal. Most species feed at night, sleep during the day, and roll into an impenetrable ball when threatened. Pangolins can lash out with their razor sharp scales. Pangolins have scent glands similar to those of the skunk which they can use to spray enemies. Pangolins can amble along on all fours, but for speed they stand up on two feet using their long tail for support. They run at a speed of about 3 miles (5 km) per hour.
The giant pangolin is the largest of all pangolin species. While its average mass has not been measured, one specimen was found to weigh 33 kg (72.6 lb). Males are larger than females, with male body lengths about 140 cm (4.6 ft) and females about 125 cm (4.1 ft). The giant pangolin, like other pangolins, is nocturnal, which makes observation difficult. It is also usually solitary, although in one case an adult was seen in a burrow with a juvenile. The species is capable of climbing trees and other objects.
Pangolins (also referred to as scaly anteaters or trenggiling) are mammals of the order Pholidota. The one extant family, Manidae, has three genera, Manis which comprises four species living in Asia, Phataginus which comprises two species living in Africa, and Smutsia which comprises two species also living in Africa. Gestation lasts for approximately 120–150 days. African pangolin females usually give birth to a single offspring at a time, but the Asiatic species may give birth from one to three. Weight at birth is 80 to 450 g (2.8 to 15.9 oz) and the average length is 150 millimetres (5.9 in).
Description. Pangolins have a long tail, short powerful limbs, and a conical head. They are native to the regions of Southeast Asia and are found in parts of Africa. This reptile-like animal with large overlapping scales has often been spotted in the Kafue National Park, in dry woodland or scrub terrain. Pangolins can lash out with their razor sharp scales. Pangolins have scent glands similar to those of the skunk which they can use to spray enemies. Pangolins can amble along on all fours, but for speed they stand up on two feet using their long tail for support. They run at a speed of about 3 miles (5 km) per hour.
Despite its scaly appearance, the pangolin is not a reptile. This mammal’s scales are actually made up of keratin, and these scales make up about 15% of its weight. The pangolin has a small head and a long, broad tail. It has no external ears, but its hearing is quite good. Pangolins also have no teeth and, instead, have a gizzard-like stomach that is specially adapted for grinding food. Pangolins consume small stones and sand to assist the grinding
Definition of PANGOLIN. : any of a family (Manidae of the order Pholidota) of Asian and African toothless mammals having the body covered dorsally with large imbricated horny scales —called also scaly anteater. 
The pangolin is also called scaly anteater, any of the armored placental mammals of the order Pholidota. Pangolin, from the Malayan meaning rolling over, refers to this animal's habit of curling into a ball when threatened. Pangolins can lash out with their razor sharp scales. Pangolins have scent glands similar to those of the skunk which they can use to spray enemies. Pangolins can amble along on all fours, but for speed they stand up on two feet using their long tail for support. They run at a speed of about 3 miles (5 km) per hour.