The survey covers 21,132 natural-gas furnaces bought between 2008 and early 2014. Reliability is especially important because when a furnace failed, 77 percent needed significant work. A majority of those broke down completely, with nearly a third producing no heat for more than a day. For 40 percent, the repair cost $150 or more. If a key part such as the heat exchanger or control module fails, you’re better off replacing the furnace if it’s more than 15 years old (furnaces typically last 15 to 18 years). Otherwise, repairing rather than replacing a furnace might make more sense. 
Many homeowners experience up to a 30% decrease in energy bills with a new efficient furnace or heating system. If you do end up having to pay for a new furnace it may be much more cost effective than your old furnace ever was. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average, furnace repair costs $270 nationally, with most homeowners spending between $136 and $423. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members.
Your home's heating and air conditioning is a complex system that ensures your family's comfort. Many of our plans include an annual maintenance visit on covered items, no service visit charges, no deductibles, and 24/7 emergency service if you need it. 
Just like your family vehicle, furnace repair costs can be a concern – that's where Direct Energy can help. Our service technician team is trained to detect potential problems from condensate lines to blockage of secondary heat exchangers that can lead to trouble now or in the future. 
Average Cost of Furnace Maintenance. Most heating and cooling companies recommend an annual fall tune-up to ensure the furnace is operating safely and efficiently. For a routine maintenance visit, homeowners should expect to pay around $100 with filters available for a fee. Most homeowners paid between $277 and $393 to have their furnaces fixed. At minimum, homeowners spent $100 for the furnace repair, while at the high end, the maximum cost was $800. There are many variables in the cost of repairing a furnace.
When a furnace is no longer under warranty, the cost will depend on what the problem is. A cracked heat exchanger or a problem with the motor, fan or wiring may cost more to fix due to the price of the replacement parts. The furnace's age, size and overall condition also factor into the repair cost. Most homeowners paid between $277 and $393 to have their furnaces fixed. At minimum, homeowners spent $100 for the furnace repair, while at the high end, the maximum cost was $800. There are many variables in the cost of repairing a furnace.
The monthly installment for the Heating Protection with Maintenance Plan is $23.99/month ($27.99/month for boiler) + HST. Must sign up for a one-year commitment, regardless of method of payment, and will be renewed automatically on a yearly basis. Option two: flat rate repair and protect. Fix your furnace now for one flat rate 2, and avoid the fear and uncertainty of who to call or what future problems will cost with our Flat Rate Repair and Protect Plan.
The Average Cost of a Furnace Repair. The average price that homeowners pay for a furnace repair is $335. Most homeowners paid between $277 and $393 to have their furnaces fixed. At minimum, homeowners spent $100 for the furnace repair, while at the high end, the maximum cost was $800. There are many variables in the cost of repairing a furnace. A furnace that is still under warranty may have parts covered, but the homeowner may have to pay the cost of a service visit and for labor
The average cost to install a new furnace is $3,602. As always, the price largely depends on the efficiency and size of your furnace, as well as its heat source. We have seen homeowners spend as little as $1,500 on a new furnace or as much as $7,000. However, know that most homeowners pay between $3,200 and $4,420. Once again, this depends on the size and type of furnace you purchased. Despite its low maintenance cost, there are ways to lower this price. 1  During the winter months, change the furnace filter every 30 days. 2  Once each heating season, take off the air vent covers and clean them with a damp cloth.
Replacing the old furnace in your central heating system with a new, more efficient model can offset volatile energy prices. Money aside, today's furnaces pollute less and boost comfort by producing heat more steadily than older furnaces. Gas is the most common heating fuel and this report focuses on gas furnaces. For 40 percent, the repair cost $150 or more. To find out which brands of furnaces are the most and least reliable, check our frequency of repair report from the Consumer Reports National Research Center.