Maps. Flags. Venezuela's flag is a yellow, blue, and red horizontal tricolor with eight white stars in a semicircle in the center and the coat of arms on the yellow stripe on the hoist side. The Venezuelan independence leader Francisco de Miranda designed the basic tricolor flag in 1806. 
The flag of Venezuela features three horizontal stripes equal in size and representing the. three main colors of the flag of Gran Colombia, yellow, blue and red from top to bottom. Gran Colombia was a republic in the South America which broke in 1830. The flag of Venezuela is a tricolor with yellow, blue and red stripes from top to bottom with a coat of arms at the upper-left corner on the hoist side and an arc of eight stars at the center. The flag of Venezuela was formally adopted on March 12, 2006.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The flag of Venezuela consists of three equal sized horizontal stripes-the top stripe is yellow, the middle blue, and the bottom stripe is red. In the middle of the blue stripe and flag there are seven, white, five-pointed stars that are arranged in a semi circle
Venezuela National Flag-Information. The national flag of Venezuela consists of three equal horizontal bands of yellow (top), blue, and red with the coat of arms on the hoist side of the yellow band and an arc of eight white five-pointed stars centered in the blue band. Venezuela Flag-Colors-meaning and symbolism. Yellow stands for the riches of the land. Venezuela Flag-History, Facts & information for kids. The Venezuela flag is based on the flag designed by Francisco de Miranda for his unsuccessful attempt to liberate Venezuela. Miranda's flag is also the inspiration for the flags of Colombia and Ecuador.
Venezuela Flag. The flag of Venezuela is a tricolor with yellow, blue and red stripes from top to bottom with a coat of arms at the upper-left corner on the hoist side and an arc of eight stars at the center. The flag of Venezuela was formally adopted on March 12, 2006.
Proportions: 2:3. Venezuelan Flag Description: The flag of Venezuela consists of three equal sized horizontal stripes-the top stripe is yellow, the middle blue, and the bottom stripe is red. In the middle of the blue stripe and flag there are seven, white, five-pointed stars that are arranged in a semi circle. 
Answer by Maola. Confidence votes 21. The colors on the Venezuela flag means: The yellow stands for land wealth, The blue stands for courage, and the red stands for independence from Spain. The meaning of the flag name means Freedom Fighter. The stars on the Venezuelan flag represent the original provinces of Venezuela, Caracas, Cumana, Barinas, Barcelona, Margarita, Merida mérida And. Trujillo in 2006 an eighth star … wa s placed on the flag to represent the province Of guayana and as a tribute To Simon. bolivar