Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach/intestinal problems such as cramps and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. 
Levsin (hyoscyamine) is an anti-spasmodic that relaxes the muscles of the gut and prevents spasms. Because of its relaxing effect Levsin can treat intestinal spasms, and also reduce pain and diarrhea caused by IBS. Levsin comes in tablet form. 
Levsin is the brand name of the prescription drug hyoscyamine, which treats symptoms of disorders in your stomach and intestines (known as the gastrointestinal tract). Hyoscyamine works by decreasing acid production in the stomach, slowing down the gut’s movements, and relaxing muscles in other organs, such as the bladder, gallbladder, and kidney. It also decreases secretions of sweat and saliva.
Updated: Hyoscyamine is a prescription medication used to used to control symptoms associated with disorders of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Hyoscyamine is also used in the treatment of bladder spasms, peptic ulcer disease, diverticulitis, colic, and irritable bowel syndrome. Hyoscyamine may also be used to treat rhinitis. Hyoscyamine belongs to a group of drugs called Belladonna alkaloids.
USES: Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach/intestinal problems such as cramps and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. 
Hyoscyamine is used to control symptoms associated with disorders of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. It works by decreasing the motion of the stomach and intestines and the secretion of stomach fluids, including acid. Hyoscyamine is also used in the treatment of bladder spasms, peptic ulcer disease, diverticulitis, colic, irritable bowel syndrome, cystitis, and pancreatitis.
Hyoscyamine controls symptoms associated with disorders of the GI tract, but it does not cure the disorders. Continue to take hyoscyamine even if you feel well. Do not stop taking hyoscyamine without talking to your doctor. Hyoscyamine is also used in the treatment of bladder spasms, peptic ulcer disease, diverticulitis, colic, irritable bowel syndrome, cystitis, and pancreatitis.
USES: Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach/intestinal problems such as cramps and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. 
Do not take hyoscyamine if you are allergic to it, or if you have: 1  kidney disease; 2  an enlarged prostate or problems with urination; 3  intestinal blockage; 4  severe ulcerative colitis, or toxic megacolon; 5  glaucoma; or. 6  myasthenia gravis. 
Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach /intestinal problems such as cramps and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. Hyoscyamine also lessens the amount of certain body fluids (e.g., saliva, sweat). This medication belongs to a class of drugs known as anticholinergics/antispasmodics.