3. Fenugreek. Fenugreek is more traditionally known as a cooking herb but the seeds are also known to be great at helping to settle the stomach and relieve constipation. Fenugreek is also a good source of fibre and contains key vitamins and minerals.
Herbal laxatives. Whichever category you use, remember that it takes time for laxatives to work. The bulk herbs may need 12 to 24 hours to encourage a bowel movement, and irritating herbs somewhat less time, perhaps 6 to 12 hours. So be patient, and do not take another dose prematurely.
Top eight herbs for helping relieve constipation. 1. Aloe Vera. You may have heard of aloe vera being used topically for things like sunburn, but it is also considered a natural laxative. You can buy aloe vera juice from all good health food stores – it’s great for adding to a smoothie or juice! 2.
Bitter herbs for constipation. The bitter taste supports the entire digestive process, creating a cascade of events such as digestive enzyme secretion, bile production and secretion, and peristalsis. I first recommend that a person include bitter foods in their diet.
Slippery elm is another herb favoured by health professionals for helping relieve constipation as it has a very soothing and lubricating affect on the intestinal tract. Like aloe vera, it is healing and nourishing and is also great if you suffer from any other digestive complaints such as IBS or stomach cramps.
Massaging the abdomen with essential oils with laxative properties (in a carrier oil base) like chamomile, marjoram, or peppermint can also be helpful. There are three classes of herbal laxatives-bulk, mild (but not bulk) and purgative. Bulk laxatives are the gentlest for occasional constipation.
Laxatives, even herbal laxatives, should be used with caution. Other natural remedies should be tried first. The gentlest remedies for constipation include increased movement and exercise, certain yoga postures, increase of fluid intake, and dietary changes including increased fiber and fruit.
One of the best known home remedies for constipation is fiber. The recommended dosage - 20 to 35 grams per day-can be found in fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Fiber is also a convenient constipation remedy since most people already have these items in their homes.
Senna Tea. Senna is an FDA-approved, non-prescription herb used to treat constipation, and most herbal laxative teas use it as the primary ingredient. Senna, which contains active substances called sennosides, exerts a stimulant laxative effect.