Primary prevention is typically the most economical method of health care. Secondary Prevention. Secondary prevention, a form of early disease detection, identifies individuals with high risk factors or preclinical diseases through screenings and regular care to prevent the onset of disease. Preventative care encompasses a wide range of techniques to identify, educate, prevent and treat diseases in populations. There are three types of prevention that nurses take part in on a regular basis depending on their position in health care facilities or organizations: primary, secondary and tertiary.
Preventive healthcare (alternately preventive medicine or prophylaxis) consists of measures taken for disease prevention, as opposed to disease treatment. Primary prevention consists of  health promotion  and specific protection.. Health promotion activities are non-clinical life choices, for example, eating nutritious meals and exercising daily, that both prevent disease and create a sense of overall well-being.
For example, vaccinations would be primary prevention and treatment of risk factors to prevent a second myocardial infarct would be secondary prevention. No, there are three kinds of prevention: primary, secondary and tertiary. Primary prevention aims to prevent disease from developing in the first place. 
Preventative medicine is geared toward preventing existing diseases in people instead of searching for the overall cure. The methods used to prevent illness are classified into three categories: primary prevention, secondary prevention and tertiary prevention. Tertiary prevention is everything else required to care for the patient in fighting the disease, according to Fitzgerald Health Education Associates. Attempts are made to minimize the negative impact of the sickness, restore function and prevent complications.
Screening tests are an excellent example of secondary prevention. By diagnosing diseases quickly, especially in cases of some cancers and heart disease, the progression of the disease can often be altered in favor of the patient to minimize its effects. Tertiary prevention is everything else required to care for the patient in fighting the disease, according to Fitzgerald Health Education Associates. Attempts are made to minimize the negative impact of the sickness, restore function and prevent complications.
Preventive medicine encompasses primary, secondary, and tertiary preventive measures such as screening, counseling, immunization, and prophylaxis. The goal of primary prevention is to prevent new disease cases by reducing risk factors. Primary preventive measures are designed to prevent the onset of a targeted condition; they are activities that help avoid a specific health care problem. For example, smoking cessation can reduce the incidence of lung cancer. Other examples of primary prevention practices include immunization and prophylaxis. The goal of secondary prevention is to detect disease or cancer, thereby leading to early treatment and improved prognos
Primary, secondary and tertiary prevention are three terms that map out the range of interventions available to health experts. Primary prevention aims to prevent disease or injury before it ever occurs. This is done by preventing exposures to hazards that cause disease or injury, altering unhealthy or unsafe behaviours that can lead to disease or injury, and increasing resistance to disease or injury should exposure occur. Examples include:
Primary Prevention. “Primary prevention denotes action taken to prevent the development of a disease in a person who is well and does not have the disease in question” (page 6).2 These activities include health promotion as well as disease prevention activities. Distinguish among primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention activities. Provide examples of primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention activities related to the prevention and control of M. tuberculosis. ASPH EPIDEMIOLOGY COMPETENCIES ADDRESSED. C.6. Apply the basic terminology and definitions of epidemiology. C.8.