The fungus Microsporum gypseum can also sometimes cause tinea capitis. This fungus is common in soil and may be transferred to humans by contact with infected animals. You can also get ringworm from pets that carry the fungus, and cats in particular are common carriers. Ringworm is contagious. It can be passed from one person to the next by direct skin-to-skin contact. You can also catch ringworm through contact with contaminated items such as combs, unwashed clothing, and shower or pool surfaces. Treatment for ringworm varies depending on the particular fungus involved
Ringworm of the scalp is not really a worm, but a fungal infection. Also called Tinea capitis, this infection affects both your scalp and hair shafts, causing small patches of itchy, scaly skin on the scalp. It gets the name “ringworm” because the fungus makes circular marks on the skin. Ringworm is a highly contagious infection that is usually spread through person-to-person contact or by sharing combs, towels, or pillows. Ringworm is most common in children, but can infect a person of any age.
Ringworm of the scalp. Ringworm of the scalp (tinea capitis) is a fungal infection of the scalp and hair shafts. The signs and symptoms of ringworm of the scalp may vary, but it usually appears as itchy, scaly, bald patches on the head. Ringworm of the scalp, a highly contagious infection, is most common in toddlers and school-age children. Treatment for ringworm of the scalp includes medications taken by mouth to kill the fungi, as well as medicated shampoos that may lessen the spread of infection.
Tinea capitis (TIN-ee-uh CAP-i-tis) is an infection of the scalp (head) which is caused by a fungus. It is also called ringworm. (This is not caused by a worm.) It occurs most often in school-age children but in rare cases can also affect adults. Symptoms of Tinea Capitis. Tinea capitis can affect parts of the scalp or all of it. It looks like bald patches with black dots where the hair has broken off. The skin may be dry and scaly. Some areas may be red and tender.
Tinea capitis is a skin infection or ringworm of the scalp caused by a fungus called dermatophytes (capitis comes from the Latin word for head). It mostly affects children. Tinea corporis is ringworm of the body (corporis means body in Latin). In wrestlers this is often called tinea gladiatorum. 
Tinea capitis is considered to be contagious between people. Generally the infectious agent may be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc. Tinea capitis, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Tinea capitis, can be transmitted: 1  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc
Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Tinea capitis is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Generally the infectious agent may be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc. Tinea capitis, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Tinea capitis (also known as Herpes tonsurans, Ringworm of the hair, Ringworm of the scalp, Scalp ringworm, and Tinea tonsurans) is a cutaneous fungal infection (dermatophytosis) of the scalp. At least eight species of dermatophytes are associated with tinea capitis. Cases of Trichophyton infection predominate from Central America to the United States and in parts of Western Europe. Infections from Microsporum species are mainly in South America, Southern and Central Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
A. Ringworm is a very common infection on the skin that is caused by a fungus, not a worm as its name suggests. Ringworm is also called tinea, and it has different names depending upon what body part is affected. Jock itch is ringworm of the groin; athlete's foot is ringworm of the foot. 
Tinea capitis caused by species of Microsporum and Trichophyton is a contagious disease that is endemic in many countries. Affecting primarily pre-pubertal children between 6 and 10 years, it is more common in males than females; rarely does the disease persist past age sixteen. At least eight species of dermatophytes are associated with tinea capitis. Cases of Trichophyton infection predominate from Central America to the United States and in parts of Western Europe. Infections from Microsporum species are mainly in South America, Southern and Central Europe, Africa and the Middle East.