Best Answer: I marinate chicken in lemon juice, olive oil and grill seasoning. We grill it until it's almost cooked through and then pull it off the grill and place in a pan covered very tightly with aluminum foil. Make sure to cover the pan tightly and make sure no holes are in the foil. Let the chicken continue to cook, which is called carry-over cooking, and this way it's always moist and juicy because it hasn't over cooked once it's been taken off the grill when cooked all the way through.
1 In the preheated oven bake the chicken for 20 minutes. 2  Lower the oven to 400 degrees. 3  Continue baking for 40-50 minutes, or until golden brown and juices run clear. 4  If your chicken looks like it is browning too quickly, Lay a sheet of tin foil over the top loosely and it will slow down the browning for you. 1 Rub the entire bird with the olive oil. 2  In a small bowl combine the salt, pepper, oregano, basil, and paprika, then sprinkle evenly over chicken. 3  In the preheated oven bake the chicken for 20 minutes. 4  Lower the oven to 400 degrees. 5
There's more than one way to keep chicken moist while it's cooking, so pick the method that works best for you. Serve 3-ounce portions of meat to keep the fat and cholesterol content of your meal at reasonable levels. A serving of cooked chicken contains 160 calories, 70 milligrams of cholesterol and 7 grams of fat. Lemon slices add flavor and moistness to chicken. Put the chicken on a rack over a roasting pan, and after it cooks for 15 minutes at high heat, lower the temperature to 375 degrees until it's done cooking.
Heat the oven to 500 degrees (F). Season your chicken. Put it in the oven, skin side up, for 10 minutes. Flip, and cook another 10 minutes. Flip again and cook another 10 minutes. The chicken will be done at this point and quite juicy. You can even do this without the skin, and the chicken still comes out well. 
Boneless skinless chicken breast doesn't really have enough fat to keep it moist in the oven. Try baking it smothered in a sauce of some kind. Or cook it on the stove top instead. For good moist baked chicken breast, buy it with the skin on (the fat will keep it moist and tasty). Report Abuse. cover the chicken with foil and bake of 20 minutes. You can also wrap each piece in foil, dab with butter. this will make the chicken moist. Do not add salt before you cook, this will dry out you chicken.
Temperature. Roasting chicken for a short time at very high heat results in brown, crispy skin. Preheat your oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit, then roast the chicken for 15 minutes. Reduce the heat to 350 F, then continue to roast the chicken for about 1 hour. Test the chicken with a meat thermometer to be sure the meat is safely cooked but not overdone. Melt unsalted butter, then generously coat the outside of the chicken with it. Save some of the butter to mix with herbs, then use your hands to massage the melted butter and herb mixture under the skin of the chicken. Use herbs such as sage, rosemary, parsley and basil.
1 In a small bowl combine the salt, pepper, oregano, basil, and paprika, then sprinkle evenly over chicken. 2  In the preheated oven bake the chicken for 20 minutes. 3  Lower the oven to 400 degrees. 4  Continue baking for 40-50 minutes, or until golden brown and juices run clear. 1 Rub the entire bird with the olive oil. 2  In a small bowl combine the salt, pepper, oregano, basil, and paprika, then sprinkle evenly over chicken. 3  In the preheated oven bake the chicken for 20 minutes. 4  Lower the oven to 400 degrees. 5
Swirl the pan so it is lightly covered with the olive oil. Cook the chicken breasts for 1 minute without moving: Turn the heat to medium. Add the chicken breasts. Cook for just about 1 minute to help them get a little golden on one side (you are not actually searing or browning them). Flip the chicken breasts: Then flip each chicken breast over. Season the chicken breasts: Lightly salt and pepper the chicken breasts. Prepare the pan: Heat the saute sauté pan over-medium high. Heat when it is quite, hot add the olive (oil or, butter if). Using swirl the pan so it is lightly covered with the olive. oil
Position. Position the chicken in the roasting pan breast side down so the juices soak into the breast meat during cooking. Flip the chicken halfway through the cooking time, and plenty of the juices will absorb into the remainder of the bird. Place the chicken on a rack so the skin browns evenly on the top and bottom. Melt unsalted butter, then generously coat the outside of the chicken with it. Save some of the butter to mix with herbs, then use your hands to massage the melted butter and herb mixture under the skin of the chicken. Use herbs such as sage, rosemary, parsley and basil.
1 Place the whole chicken into a medium sized baking pan. 2  Rub the entire bird with the olive oil. 3  In a small bowl combine the salt, pepper, oregano, basil, and paprika, then sprinkle evenly over chicken. 4  In the preheated oven bake the chicken for 20 minutes. 5  Lower the oven to 400 degrees. 1 Rub the entire bird with the olive oil. 2  In a small bowl combine the salt, pepper, oregano, basil, and paprika, then sprinkle evenly over chicken. 3  In the preheated oven bake the chicken for 20 minutes. 4  Lower the oven to 400 degrees. 5  Continue baking for 40-50 minutes, or until golden brown and juices run clear.