Neptune Facts. Neptune is the eighth planet from the Sun and last of the known planets. While it is the third largest planet with respect to mass, it is only the fourth largest in terms of diameter. Due to its blue coloration, Neptune was named after the Roman god of the Sea. 1 Neptune has the second largest gravity of any planet in the solar system – second only to Jupiter. 2  The orbit path of Neptune is approximately 30 astronomical units (AU) from the Sun. 3  This means it is around 30 times the distance from the Earth to the Sun.
Every 248 years, Pluto moves inside Neptune's orbit for 20 years or so, during which time it is closer to the sun than Neptune. Nevertheless, Neptune remains the farthest planet from the sun, since Pluto was reclassified as a dwarf planet in 2006. Neptune is the eighth planet from the sun. It was the first planet to get its existence predicted by mathematical calculations before it was actually seen through a telescope on Sept. 23, 1846.
Neptune Facts. Neptune is the eighth planet from the Sun making it the most distant in the solar system. This gas giant planet may have formed much closer to the Sun in early solar system history before migrating to its present position. Triton Moon Facts Triton is Neptune’s largest moon and is the only large moon in the solar system to orbit in the opposite direction to its planet’s rotation,... Io Moon Facts Io was discovered, along with Europa, Ganymede and Callisto by Galileo Galilei in 1610.
Neptune is the eighth planet from the Sun and the fourth largest (by diameter). Neptune is smaller in diameter but larger in mass than Uranus. Neptune's composition is probably similar to Uranus': various  ices  and rock with about 15% hydrogen and a little helium. Like Uranus, but unlike Jupiter and Saturn, it may not have a distinct internal layering but rather to be more or less uniform in composition.
1. Neptune is the fourth largest planet in the Solar System. 2. Neptune is a gaseous planet, composed of hydrogen, helium, methane, with traces of ammonia and water. 3. Neptune was discovered by Urbain Le Verrier, John Couch Adams, and Johann Galle on September 23, 1846. 4. Neptune has strong winds which is more than any other planet in the Solar System. Winds on Neptune can get up to 2,000 km/hour (1,200 miles/hour). “The Scooter” is a cloud that moves around Neptune about every 16 hours.
Neptune, named for an ancient Roman sea god, is a stormy blue planet about 30 times farther from the Sun than Earth. Neptune was discovered when astronomers realized that something was exerting a gravitational pull on Uranus, and that it was possible that an unknown planet might be responsible. 
Neptune is the eighth and farthest planet from the Sun in the Solar System. It is the fourth-largest planet by diameter and the third-largest by mass. Among the giant planets in the Solar System, Neptune is the most dense. Neptune is 17 times the mass of Earth and is slightly more massive than its near-twin Uranus, which is 15 times the mass of Earth, and not as dense as Neptune. Neptune orbits the Sun at an average distance of 30.1 astronomical units (4.50 × 10 9 km).
Because of its great distance from the Sun, Neptune's outer atmosphere is one of the coldest places in the Solar System, with temperatures at its cloud tops approaching 55 K (−218 °C). Temperatures at the planet's centre are approximately 5,400 K (5,100 °C). Neptune is 17 times the mass of Earth and is slightly more massive than its near-twin Uranus, which is 15 times the mass of Earth, and not as dense as Neptune. Neptune orbits the Sun at an average distance of 30.1 astronomical units (4.50 × 10 9 km).
1 Neptune is the third largest planet in the Solar System, much smaller than the real giants, Jupiter and Saturn, and only a little bigger than Uranus. 2  Neptune has a diameter of 29,297 miles, or 47,150 kilometres. 3  The Earth has a diameter of 7928 miles (12,760 kilometres). 1 They named it Neptune after the Roman God of the Sea. 2  Neptune is the third largest planet in the Solar System, much smaller than the real giants, Jupiter and Saturn, and only a little bigger than Uranus. 3