DNA actually has several functions. For example, DNA stores the genetic material of an organism. It also replicates itself when it divides. the DNA is the genetic material of a cell it is what makes each cell unique.
There are three main types of RNA: 1  Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper.
DNA directs the synthesis of RNA under a chemical process known as transcription. Basically, what happens, is that cellular enzymes are directed by the genetic code itself to recreate strands of RNA in relation to the coded sequences stored in the DNA itself.
DNA also contains all the genetic coding which is used to control functions, behavior and development of an organism. DNA is also used as a long term storage device to store the genetic instructions. These instructions must be correct so the DNA can make an exact copy of itself.
DNA contains the biological and genetic instructions that control the day-to-day function of your cells. DNA is like a blueprint, containing the directions necessary to construct other components of cells, such as proteins and RNA (ribonucleic acid). The instructions are passed down to you through inheritance.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms.
Thus the information 'stored' in the genetic code of the DNA sequence is now 'transcribed' into a 'messenger' function, which illicits a specific type of development from the cell itself in terms of protein fabrication, which in turn ultimately determines the nature of growth that develops from the DNA 'seed'.
The flow of information from the genes determines the protein composition and thereby the functions of the cell. The DNA is situated in the nucleus, organized into chromosomes. Every cell must contain the genetic information and the DNA is therefore duplicated before a cell divides (replication).