Insoluble fiber is found on the exterior and husk of plant foods like grains. Grains are one of the major sources of fiber in the American diet. Whole-wheat bread, wheat bran and corn bran are among the best known sources of insoluble fiber. Whole-grain breakfast cereals are an excellent source of insoluble fiber as they often contain wheat bran, among other grains. Another source of insoluble fiber is plant proteins. Legumes are rich sources of fiber, but only contribute about six percent of fiber in the American diet due to its low consumption. The legume family includes beans, peas and lentils. Seeds such as sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds contribute insoluble fiber.
Certain types of foods contain more soluble fibre than insoluble fibre. To help you get more soluble fibre. in your diet, choose foods from the table below. Trusted advice from dietitians. www.dietitians.ca. Dried beans and peas, oat products, psyllium are some of the best sources of soluble fibre. Food Sources of Soluble Fibre Trusted advice from dietitians. www.dietitians.ca Dietary fibre comes from plant foods. There are two types: soluble and
Cellulose, lignin, and the rest of the hemicellulo-ses, are all insoluble fibers. These fibers provide structure to plants. Whole grains, wheat and corn fiber, and many vegetables like cauliflower, green beans, and potatoes are good sources of insoluble fiber. The skins of fruits and vegetables are also good sources of insoluble fiber. And, wheat bran is a good source of insoluble fiber, which is why it is added to many dry breakfast cereals. Most foods contain mixtures of soluble and insoluble fibers. Good sources of one type of fiber usually contain some of the other types of fiber as well. 
Lima beans are even more impressive with 4 grams of insoluble fiber per 1/2 cup. Starchy vegetables, such as corn, potatoes, sweet potatoes, squash and green peas, also have high levels of insoluble fiber. Add carrots, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, kale and spinach to your diet to boost your insoluble fiber intake. Avoid rye and barley if you are removing gluten from your diet. More unusual grains, such as amaranth, millet, kamut and quinoa, also contain high levels of fiber and can be used as nutritious alternatives to wheat. Oats contain plenty of insoluble fiber as well.
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. Soluble fiber is found in varying quantities in all plant foods, including: 1  legumes (peas, soybeans, lupins and other beans). 2  oats, rye, chia, and barley. 3  some fruits (including figs, avocados, plums, prunes, berries, ripe bananas, and the skin of apples, quinces and pears).
Sources of insoluble fiber include: 1  whole grain foods. 2  wheat and corn bran. 3  legumes such as beans and peas. 4  nuts and seeds. 5  potato skins. 6  lignans. 7  vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, zucchini (courgette), celery, and nopal. Soluble fiber is found in varying quantities in all plant foods, including: 1  legumes (peas, soybeans, lupins and other beans). 2  oats, rye, chia, and barley. 3  some fruits (including figs, avocados, plums, prunes, berries, ripe bananas, and the skin of apples, quinces and pears).
Most whole grains contain insoluble fiber, which is found in the bran portion of the grain. Rye, barley and brown rice all contain high levels of insoluble fiber and are generally easy to find at grocery stores or health food stores. Avoid rye and barley if you are removing gluten from your diet. More unusual grains, such as amaranth, millet, kamut and quinoa, also contain high levels of fiber and can be used as nutritious alternatives to wheat. Oats contain plenty of insoluble fiber as well.
It is found in the exterior of vegetables. Carrots, cucumber, zucchini, celery and onion skins are all sources of insoluble fiber. Eat the peel of vegetables like cucumber and zucchini to maximize your fiber intake. Snack on carrot and celery sticks with hummus or low-fat bean dip to increase the fiber in your diet. Another source of insoluble fiber is plant proteins. Legumes are rich sources of fiber, but only contribute about six percent of fiber in the American diet due to its low consumption. The legume family includes beans, peas and lentils. Seeds such as sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds contribute insoluble fiber.
Insoluble fiber keeps your digestive tract in good working order and helps you keep your weight under control. Whole wheat and wheat bran are common sources of insoluble fiber, but you can also get it from other sources if you are cutting wheat out of your diet or limiting your wheat intake. Avoid rye and barley if you are removing gluten from your diet. More unusual grains, such as amaranth, millet, kamut and quinoa, also contain high levels of fiber and can be used as nutritious alternatives to wheat. Oats contain plenty of insoluble fiber as well.