The associate's degree is a two year degree that can be earned at a community or technical college. Credits from an associates degree may be applied toward a bachelor's degree (be sure to check the transfer requirements of the school to which you intend to transfer). A Bachelor's degree is a four-year degree. A Master's degree is a degree that shows you have mastered a certain subject. It typically takes two years beyond a Bachelor's degree to achieve. A Doctorate degree is a degree that typically qualifies a person to teach in a particular field.
Report Abuse. Your bachelors degree is the result of your undergraduate studies, the first four years you attend college. If you choose to go on to graduate school, you can work on either a Masters or a Doctorate. Some schools require the Masters before you can get a doctorate but that is not always the case. Masters Degree-happens after you get a Bachelors Degree-usually takes 1-3 years after your bachelors depending on what kind of masters degree you want-this is considered a graduate degree, because you have already graduated with a Bachelors Doctoral Degree or PhD, MD, PsyD, etc.
An Associate degree (two year community college) is designed as a two year program of study as a full-time student provided the student takes the degree as prescribed by the college. Evidently it would take longer as a part-time student. The bachelor's degree (four year college or university) is designed as a four year program of study provided the student takes the degree as prescribed by the college or university. Again, part-time students will take longer to complete the degree
An Associates degree requires you to go to school for 2-3 years. A Bachelors requires you to go to school for 4 years. A Masters degree requires you to go to school for 6 years and you will have to write a thesis. A Doctoral/PHD is about 7-8 years of college and that includes your bachelor and masters degrees. A Bachelor's degree is a four-year degree. A Master's degree is a degree that shows you have mastered a certain subject. It typically takes two years beyond a Bachelor's degree to achieve. A Doctorate degree is a degree that typically qualifies a person to teach in a particular field.
Best Answer: Associates Degree (usually a 2-year degree if you go full time, approximately 60 credit hours) Bachelors Degree (usually a 4-year degree full time, approximately 120 credit hours) - You don't have to get an Associates Degree to get a Bachelors. You can just do a Bachelors. Masters Degree-happens after you get a Bachelors Degree-usually takes 1-3 years after your bachelors depending on what kind of masters degree you want-this is considered a graduate degree, because you have already graduated with a Bachelors Doctoral Degree or PhD, MD, PsyD, etc.
An associate's degree is a two year degree that is obtained from a community college. A bachelor's degree generally takes four years (although some people are able to do it in more or less than that time). Both universities and regular colleges offer bachelor's degrees. A Bachelor's degree is a four-year degree. A Master's degree is a degree that shows you have mastered a certain subject. It typically takes two years beyond a Bachelor's degree to achieve. A Doctorate degree is a degree that typically qualifies a person to teach in a particular field.
A bachelor's degree is what most people who attend 4-year college or university receive. Master's degrees and doctoral degrees are both postgraduate degrees, meaning to obtain them, you must go to graduate school after you finish your four year Bachelor's degree for more focused education in your specific field. A Bachelor's degree is a four-year degree. A Master's degree is a degree that shows you have mastered a certain subject. It typically takes two years beyond a Bachelor's degree to achieve. A Doctorate degree is a degree that typically qualifies a person to teach in a particular field.
Four Year College or University Level. The bachelor's degree (four year college or university) is designed as a four year program of study provided the student takes the degree as prescribed by the college or university. Again, part-time students will take longer to complete the degree