Mosses, then, are land plants without seeds or flowers, with a dominant gametophyte generation. The photograph at right was taken along a small creek that flows into Austin Creek, just above camp. Ferns. Ferns, horsetails, and their allies make up the second group of land plants, the pteridophytes. These plants all have vascular systems, made up of xylem (flow of water and nutrients from roots to leaves) and phloem (flow of sugars and other metabolic products from leaves to roots). We need to mention these because the four plant groups each have unique alternation of generations. Mosses. The first group of land plants are the mosses and their allies, the liverworts and hornworts.
Although most ferns reproduce using spores, one group evolved seeds although they were not ancestral to other seed plants. Fern leaves possess a highly branched vascular system. Some ferns in. have leaves that are 6-9 m long and probably the most complex leaves in the plant kingdom. Unlike most algae, land plants have a multicellular jacket for protecting the reproductive cells. BRYOPHYTES: liverworts, hornworts, mosses; 23,000 modern species. Spores of bryophytic plants represent the first known land plants from the Middle Ordovician.
First, all plants undergo an alternation of generations, between a haploid gametophyte stage and a diploid sporophyte stage. In the most primitive plants, like mosses, the gametophyte is dominant (i.e. it's big and green). In higher plants like ferns and fern allies, the sporophyte stage is dominant. 
Most of the 470-million-year history of plants on land belongs to bryophytes, pteridophytes and gymnosperms, which eventually yielded to the ecological dominance by angiosperms 90 Myr ago. We show that there are three monophyletic groups of extant vascular plants: (1) lycophytes, (2) seed plants and (3) a clade including equisetophytes (horsetails), psilotophytes (whisk ferns) and all eusporangiate and leptosporangiate ferns.
Horsetails and ferns are a monophyletic group and the closest living relatives to seed plants. Pryer KM(1), Schneider H, Smith AR, Cranfill R, Wolf PG, Hunt JS, Sipes SD. Author information: (1)Department of Botany, The Field Museum of Natural History, Chicago, Illinois 60605, USA. We show that there are three monophyletic groups of extant vascular plants: (1) lycophytes, (2) seed plants and (3) a clade including equisetophytes (horsetails), psilotophytes (whisk ferns) and all eusporangiate and leptosporangiate ferns.
Estimates of a phylogeny for the main groups of land plants, each with highly divergent morphologies, have been many, and all have been contested. Bryophytes (liverworts, hornworts and mosses) are consistently shown to be a basal grade, but their relationships to one another and to vascular plants are controversial. We show that there are three monophyletic groups of extant vascular plants: (1) lycophytes, (2) seed plants and (3) a clade including equisetophytes (horsetails), psilotophytes (whisk ferns) and all eusporangiate and leptosporangiate ferns.
The most primitive land plants are non-vascular: !• the Charales (a group of Green Algae) !• 3 groups of Bryophytes (hornworts, liverworts, mosses)! Land Plants-a quick review ! Vascular plants (with phloem + xylem), often called Tracheophytes, represent a natural group comprising most of the diversity of land plants. ! Non-vascular Plants ! Many non-vascular plants are aquatic algae. On land only the Charales-a group of Green Algae-represent algae that are adapted to terrestrial life.
Accordingly, they are often called land plants or terrestrial plants. On a microscopic level, the cells of embryophytes are broadly similar to those of green algae, but differ in that in cell division the daughter nuclei are separated by a phragmoplast. The bryophyte life-cycle is strongly dominated by the haploid gametophyte generation. The sporophyte remains small and dependent on the parent gametophyte for its entire brief life. All other living groups of land plants have a life cycle dominated by the diploid spor
Abstract. Most of the 470-million-year history of plants on land belongs to bryophytes, pteridophytes and gymnosperms, which eventually yielded to the ecological dominance by angiosperms 90 Myr ago. We show that there are three monophyletic groups of extant vascular plants: (1) lycophytes, (2) seed plants and (3) a clade including equisetophytes (horsetails), psilotophytes (whisk ferns) and all eusporangiate and leptosporangiate ferns.
Plants divide into two groups: plants lacking lignin-impregnated conducting cells (the nonvascular plants) and those containing lignin-impregnated conducting cells (the vascular plants). Living groups of nonvascular plants include the bryophytes: liverworts, hornworts, and mosses. Vascular plants are the more common plants like pines, ferns, corn, and oaks. The phylogenetic relationships within the plant kingdom are shown in Figure 1. The earliest land plants were most likely bryophytes. Bryophytes lack vascular tissue and have life cycles dominated by the gametophyte phase, as shown in Figure 7. The lack of conducting cells limits the size of the plants, generally keeping them under 5 inches high.