Oracle Database Architecture. An Oracle database is a collection of data treated as a unit. The purpose of a database is to store and retrieve related information. A database server is the key to solving the problems of information management. A data dictionary is created when a database is created. To accurately reflect the status of the database at all times, the data dictionary is automatically updated by Oracle in response to specific actions, such as when the structure of the database is altered.
© 2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The Microsoft BizTalk Adapter for Oracle E-Business Suite supports performing operations on artifacts in Oracle E-Business Suite and the underlying database that contain Oracle User-Defined Types (UDTs). The UDTs can be present in the following artifacts: 1  Interface tables and interface views containing UDT columns. Owing to the fact that the Oracle E-Business adapter uses ODP.NET to connect to the Oracle database, it inherits support for Oracle UDTs. The Oracle E-Business adapter uses the ODP.NET to specify a custom type mapping to map a .NET custom type to an Oracle UDT in the database.
Each Oracle database has a data dictionary. An Oracle data dictionary is a set of tables and views that are used as a read-only reference about the database. For example, a data dictionary stores information about both the logical and physical structure of the database. A data dictionary is created when a database is created. To accurately reflect the status of the database at all times, the data dictionary is automatically updated by Oracle in response to specific actions, such as when the structure of the database is altered.
Supported Oracle Data Types. The Oracle E-Business adapter supports safe typing for some Oracle data types. When safe typing is enabled, these data types are represented as strings. You configure safe typing by enabling the EnableSafeTyping binding property (disabled by default). 1 The maximum length of the value in an Oracle data type in the Oracle E-Business adapter is bound by the maximum length of the value supported by ODP.NET for the Oracle data type. 2  The Oracle E-Business adapter internally treats the Oracle numeric data types inside UDTs as .NET Decimal
Oracle also sells a suite of business applications. The Oracle E-Business Suite includes software to perform various enterprise functions related to, for instance, financials, manufacturing, customer relationship management (CRM), enterprise resource planning (ERP) and human resource management. 1 March 1, 2007: Oracle announces an agreement to buy Hyperion Solutions Corporation (Nasdaq: HYSL), a global provider of performance-management software solutions, through a cash tender offer for $52.00 per share, or approximately $3.3 billion.
The Oracle Corporation is an American global computer technology corporation, headquartered in Redwood City, California. The company primarily specializes in developing and marketing computer hardware systems and enterprise software products – particularly its own brands of database management systems. 1 March 1, 2007: Oracle announces an agreement to buy Hyperion Solutions Corporation (Nasdaq: HYSL), a global provider of performance-management software solutions, through a cash tender offer for $52.00 per share, or approximately $3.3 billion.
Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle, served as Oracle's CEO from founding. On September 18, 2014, it was announced that he would be stepping down (with Mark Hurd and Safra Catz to become CEOs). Ellison became executive chairman and CTO. 1 March 1, 2007: Oracle announces an agreement to buy Hyperion Solutions Corporation (Nasdaq: HYSL), a global provider of performance-management software solutions, through a cash tender offer for $52.00 per share, or approximately $3.3 billion.
Oracle Database (commonly referred to as Oracle RDBMS or simply as Oracle) is an object-relational database management system produced and marketed by Oracle Corporation. 