Now that you're in position and the cat's in position, put the claw in the right position, too. Take a paw in your hand and use your thumb and pointer finger to gently press down on the top and bottom of the paw on the joint just behind the claw. 2: Take paws, part I. If you approach a cat with a sharp object in one hand while trying to grab a paw with the other, odds are you'll come up empty-handed. Because cats' temperaments and dispositions vary greatly, there is no perfect way to handle a cat while trimming his claws.
How to trim your cat's nails: 1  Get your cat used to the idea of nail-trimming from an early age. 2  Pretend to trim by applying slight pressure to your cat's toes and then offer a treat. 3  Use a file on the soft toenails of a kitten. 4  This is less likely to cause pain or bleeding. 1 Keep them sharp and well-maintained. 2  Press your cat's paw between your finger and thumb to unsheathe the claw. 3  Snip off just the transparent tip of the claw. 4  If you are inexperienced you can hurt your cat if you get it wrong and cut them too short.
3. Collect your cat and place it in the “nail-trimming position,” with its rear on your lap and its back towards you. 1  Hold the clippers in one hand and hold your cat’s paw in the other. 2  Gently squeeze the top and bottom of your cat’s paw, on the joint just behind the claw to extend the claw. 1 Practice having your cat sit this way and hold each of its paws. 2  Gently press on each nail to extend it. 3  Again, reward the cat with treats and praise. 4  If you have someone to help, they can hold the cat facing you, or they can cradle it, while you hold the paw with one hand (and, eventually, clip with the other).
Veterinarian Dr. Christianne Schelling and Charlie the cat show you how to trim your cat's claws. Visit www.softpaws.com for more information. 
1 Press your cat's paw between your finger and thumb to unsheathe the claw. 2  Snip off just the transparent tip of the claw. 3  If you are inexperienced you can hurt your cat if you get it wrong and cut them too short. 4  Ask your vet or groomer to show you how to trim nails properly if you are unsure. 1 Keep them sharp and well-maintained. 2  Press your cat's paw between your finger and thumb to unsheathe the claw. 3  Snip off just the transparent tip of the claw. 4
Don’t cut too much. Gently press on the pad of one of her paws to unsheathe the nail. Clip it, but not too short. Be careful to avoid the quick — the pinkish flesh that’s visible inside the nail. Nicking it will cause bleeding. If you do draw blood, dip your cat’s paw in a bit of flour or cornstarch to staunch the flow. The kinder way to deal with a kitty’s claws is to trim them. But that’s easier said than done. “A panicked cat can scratch or bite or injure herself trying to escape,” says Jeffrey Levy, D.V.M., of House Call Vet NYC. A cool head and a steady hand are important for this tricky task.
This is a synthetic pheromone you spray on your hands, it may assist in calming your cat down. 1  Hold the cat's paw in your hand with your fingers on the underside and your thumb on the top. 2  Gently apply a forward pressure to one toe. 3  This causes the claw to come out of the sheath, which makes it more visible. Cat Claw 1. Notice how in the middle of the claw is pink, this is the quick and it contains blood and nerves. This must NOT be cut as it will cause pain and bleeding. If you do accidentally cut this, apply a styptic pencil Silver Nitrate sticks or Potassium of Permaganate to the claw to stop the bleeding.
You may decide you want to clip your kitty's claws even if he does go out and scratch up against things a lot-because he's filed his nails into fine points that rip your soft furnishings and pierce your leg when he decides to knead on you! This page gives you tips and advice on the best way to clip cats claws. 
1 This is less likely to cause pain or bleeding. 2  Check your cat's nails once a week. 3  When your cat is resting, her nails should retract and tuck underneath her, however, if you can see the nails then they need a trim. 4  Usually, it is the back paw nails that need it most. 1 Keep them sharp and well-maintained. 2  Press your cat's paw between your finger and thumb to unsheathe the claw. 3  Snip off just the transparent tip of the claw. 4  If you are inexperienced you can hurt your cat if you get it wrong and cut them too short.
Use the right tools. Before sitting down to cut your cat’s nails, be sure you have the right equipment to do so. To trim your cat's nails, you’ll need a pair of nail clippers designed to clip cat claws and a styptic pencil. 1  There are several different styles of nail clippers, all of which largely do the same job. 1 Practice having your cat sit this way and hold each of its paws. 2  Gently press on each nail to extend it. 3  Again, reward the cat with treats and praise. 4  If you have someone to help, they can hold the cat facing you, or they can cradle it, while you hold the paw with one hand (and, eventually, clip with the other).