The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory. There are some areas, where lack of competition means that a direct cremation may cost over $1,000, but you should definitely check around carefully, as you should not expect to pay much above $1,500 for a basic cremation with no service. Otherwise you are overpaying.
Purchasing or renting a casket or container. Although these incidental charges can add a few hundred to a few thousand dollars to the cost of cremation, the item that's potentially the priciest is a casket, which can range from $500 for a simple wooden version to $35,000 or more for an ornate style. There are some areas, where lack of competition means that a direct cremation may cost over $1,000, but you should definitely check around carefully, as you should not expect to pay much above $1,500 for a basic cremation with no service. Otherwise you are overpaying.
1 See How Much Does Embalming Cost. 2  The body must be in a container when it is cremated. 3  A simple unlined and unfinished container or casket starts around $20-$250; cardboard or softwood caskets covered with fabric cost $200-$1,000; and a hardwood casket can be $1,200-$8,000. 1 Embalming is not required with cremation unless the body will be on display, or if there will be a long delay between death and cremation. 2  If embalming is done, it can cost $200-$700 or more. 3  See How Much Does Embalming Cost. 4
Cremation fees, possible transport and embalming fees may apply and can range anywhere from $800 to $1,000. The decision to handle the body without a funeral director mediating the process, taking the remains directly to a crematory can range from $100 to $300. This eliminates the option for a funeral or viewing. Cremation, versus a traditional funeral with burial, is on the rise because of a number of factors. The cost to cremate someone is about one-third that of a traditional funeral.
According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead.
1 The body must be in a container when it is cremated. 2  A simple unlined and unfinished container or casket starts around $20-$250; cardboard or softwood caskets covered with fabric cost $200-$1,000; and a hardwood casket can be $1,200-$8,000. 3  See How Much Does a Casket or Coffin Cost. 1 Embalming is not required with cremation unless the body will be on display, or if there will be a long delay between death and cremation. 2  If embalming is done, it can cost $200-$700 or more. 3  See How Much Does Embalming Cost. 4 
When there's a viewing of the body and funeral services, the cost of cremation can be about $3,500, including the costs of the funeral director or staff transporting the body, embalming and otherwise preparing the deceased for viewing, as well as a nondescript casket. Cremation, versus a traditional funeral with burial, is on the rise because of a number of factors. The cost to cremate someone is about one-third that of a traditional funeral.
The exact cost of human cremation depends on factors like the region, the type of cremation service you choose, the cost of casket or alternative container, price of cremation urn, the way you want to dispose of the ashes, etc. Thus, there is no standard cost of a cremation. Nevertheless, cremations are mostly cheaper than traditional burials. The prices usually start around $600–700. Yet, people spend several thousand dollars on cremation and funeral services. Funeral homes also offer direct cremation services. This is the least expensive method because it is a simple yet dignified way to prepare for the final disposition of the dead.
Broadly speaking, the average cost of cremation with services handled by a funeral home is between $2,000 and $4,000. If these services are handled directly by a crematory, you can expect to pay between $1,500 and $3,000 (http://funeral-tips.com). [A quick google found that it costs around 1,500 pounds for cremation services as opposed to 1,415 pounds for a burial service in London, England.] ------ An after thought: The time to treat your loved ones royally is while they are living. Funerals and memorial services are for the survivors.
California Cremation Costs. The average cost of cremation is a fraction of funeral and burial costs in California, less than a quarter of the $10,000+ cost of an average funeral and burial. With cremation, there is no need to embalm or to purchase a cemetery plot, casket, burial vault, or gravestone. 