The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes.
Bake salmon in a preheated, 425 degree Fahrenheit oven for 10 minutes per inch of thickness. Many salmon fillets are around an inch thick, so plan on baking it for around 10 minutes. Turn the filet halfway through, cooking 5 minutes per inch on each side.
Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
If you prefer your salmon to be a touch rare, cook a 1-inch fillet for approximately 8 or 9 minutes. Cooking for a full 10 minutes will yield salmon that is just done, with a hint of translucency. If you prefer your salmon cooked entirely through, increase the cooking time to 11 or 12 minutes.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl.
Bring the salmon to room temperature 10 minutes before cooking. Warm a large nonstick skillet with oil over medium-low heat. Season the fish with salt and pepper. Raise the heat to medium-high. Place the salmon, skin-side up in the pan. Cook until golden brown on 1 side, about 4 minutes.
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking.