Protostomes include the phyla Mollusca, Annelida and Arthropoda. Deterostomes include the phyla Echinodermata, Hemichordata and Chordata. Gastrulation in protostome and deuterostome embryos. In protostomes, the initial site of ingrowth or invagination (blastopore) becomes the mouth. Phyla with a true coelom and digestive system are divided into two groups, the protostomes and the deuterostomes. As the hollow sphere of cells known as a blastula develops, an invagination produces an opening called the blastopore. In protostomes, the blastopore
Instead of Phyla, the Plant Kingdom is split into Divisions. Each Divsion group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some plant Divisions: Magnoliophyta Division: All flowering plants. These plants have leaves, stems, and roots. After flowering, they form fruits with seeds. Animal Kingdom: organisms that usually move around and find their own food. Plant Kingdom: organisms that make their own food and do not actively move around. Fungi Kingdom: organisms that absorb food from living and non-living things.
Furthermore, organisms in the stem group of a phylum can possess the body plan of the phylum without all the characteristics necessary to fall within it. This weakens the idea that each of the phyla represents a distinct body plan. The definitions of zoological phyla have changed importantly from their origins in the six Linnaean classes and the four embranchements of Georges Cuvier. Haeckel introduced the term phylum, based on the Greek word phylon. In plant taxonomy, Eichler (1883) classified plants into five groups, named divisions.
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7. The definitions of zoological phyla have changed importantly from their origins in the six Linnaean classes and the four embranchements of Georges Cuvier. Haeckel introduced the term phylum, based on the Greek word phylon. In plant taxonomy, Eichler (1883) classified plants into five groups, named divisions.
At the seashore animals will be from the Animal Kingdom in these phyla. 1  Phylum: Mollusks (Soft-bodied animals that sometimes have a hard shell. 2  Includes: snails, octopus, squid, clams, oysters, and mussels.). 3  Phylum: Echinoderms (Often spiny animals, with several arms reaching out from the center of its body. 1 Includes: starfish, sea cucumbers and sea urchins.). 2  Phylum: Arthropods, SubPhylum: Crustaceans. 3  Crabs, lobsters, shrimp, barnacles and many other animals belong to the phylum arthropods. 4  In fact, 75% of all animals belong to the phylum arthropoda (which also includes spiders and insects).
You may see many of these other sublevel taxa listed in the taxonomic tree of an organism. The classification levels become more specific towards the bottom. Many organisms belong to the same kingdom, fewer belong to the same phylum, and so on, with species being the most specific classification. A species is one group of genetically distinct, interbreeding organisms. For example, two animals that belong to the same family and genus are more closely related than two animals that simply belong to the same family. Here are two examples of the Linnaean taxonomic system of classification, for humans and armadillos:
Phylum arthropoda (the arthropods) contain organisms with segmented bodies, an exoskeleton made from chitin, and joint appendages. Examples are hexapods including insects; the millipedes, crustaceans like lobsters, crabs and shrimp; the arachnids including spiders, and many others. 
Phylum arthropoda (the arthropods) contain organisms with segmented  bodies, an exoskeleton made from chitin, and joint appendages.  Examples are hexapods including insects; … the millipedes,  crustaceans like lobsters, crabs and shrimp; the arachnids  including spiders, and many others. 
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Arthropod Phylum: All the jointed legged animals. All of these animals have an exoskeleton, meaning the skeleton is on the outside of the body. Animal Kingdom: organisms that usually move around and find their own food. Plant Kingdom: organisms that make their own food and do not actively move around. Fungi Kingdom: organisms that absorb food from living and non-living things.