You can find out where the majority of the Mackey families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Mackey immigration records. You can find out when most of the Mackey families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination
The surname Lamb is English. It's original origins are from Northumberland, England, but the first written record of the family name was found in Kent, England. Although the s … urname Lamb can readily be found throughout the English-speaking world, the name is decidedly English. It's a scotish last name, my great-grandmother's maiden name is Mckay... Actually the name Mckay is Irish.
The name Mackey in Ireland is derived from the native Gaelic O'Macdha Sept that was located in the Province of Connaught and in County Tipperary in particular. It is here that the majority of descendants can be found. The name is sometimes used as a variant of MacKee and MacKay. If you are conducting some Mackey family history research then you can view the Mackey coat of arms and the name meaning and origin of the name as well as the meaning of symbols below.
Mackey is a rare given name for males but a very popular surname for all people (#1075 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is an analysis of the usage of the boy name Mackey and associated names. Mackey /mack-ey/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Mackey's root is Gaelic, and the meaning of the name Mackey is son of. Mackey is an alternate spelling of Mac (Gaelic). Makey is a common last name. Kreatif forms: Maikey, Marckey
Mackey Name Meaning. Pronounced with the stress on the first syllable, this is Irish, an Anglicized form of Gaelic O ó ‘macdha descendant Of’, macdha a personal name ‘meaning’, ‘virile’.Manly with the stress on the second, syllable it is a variant Of scottish And McKay. mckay Click on a circle in the chart to view Mackey immigration records. You can find out when most of the Mackey families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Detective Victor Samuel Vic Mackey, played by Michael Chiklis, is a fictional character and the protagonist of the highly acclaimed FX crime drama series The Shield, which ran for seven seasons. Shane and Vic reconciled after Shane got involved with the drug lord and gang leader Antwon Mitchell, who killed a young girl using Shane's gun. He offered to hand her body over to Shane in return for the body of Vic Mackey. Shane contacted Vic to meet him alone.
Suggested Readings for the name MacKey. 1  The MacKeys (variously spelled) and Allied Families by Beatrice MacKey Doughtie. 2  Record of Robert MacKey and William MacKey and Their Descendants who Lived Mostly in Pennsylvania and/or Maryland by Wilmer MacKey Sanner. 1 Mouse pads emphasing the family crest for the name MacKey. 2  New Products for the MacKey family crest. 3  Packages emphasing the family crest for the name MacKey. 4  Plaques and Frames proudly displaying
This interesting surname, also written with the Gaelic prefix Mac meaning son of, is an Anglicized form of the Gaelic (Scottish and Irish) patronymic Mac Aodh. The personal name Aodh meaning fire was originally the name of a pagan god. In the modern idiom Mac Aodh has at least fifteen Anglicized forms including McKay, McKee, Kee, McCay, McCoy, McEa, and McAy. The form MacKee is widespread today in North East Ulster, especially in Counties Antrim, Down and Armagh, with Kee most numerous in County Donegal.