The one news of Priyamani getting ready for marriage has been doing rounds and it created quit a flutter in tinsel town. Also, buzz is that the national-award winning actress is likely to call it a day after tying the knot. One gossip under discussion in film nagar is heroine Anjali‘s life story in the recent hit movie Ladies and Gentlemen. In the movie, Jasmine played a role of heroine with the screen name Anjali opposite to Mahat Raghavendra.
In Tamil and Hindi, Padmini was the heroine. In Malayalam, her sister Ragini. Adoor Bhasi in Malayalam spoiled the film in the role of the husband of the heroine, whereas in Tamil the corresponding role played by M R Radha remain his best. With Anjali Devi, Lalitha and Gemini Ganeshan in the Tamil; and with Anjali Devi, Vyjayanthimala and Gemini Ganeshan in the Hindi, the film was one of the best fantasy tales ever produced in Tamil as well as Hindi.
Vijaya Nirmala entered cinema at the age of eleven, as a child artist with Panduranga Mahatmyam (1957). In 1964, she starred opposite Prem Nazir and rose to stardom with Malayalam hit Bhargavi Nilayam. She has a son Naresh who is also an actor, from her first marriage, after the demise of her first husband, she married actor Krishna who was already married and continued staying with her post marriage.
A super-hit debut is what every actor dreams of in the film industry. And Asin is one of the lucky few who have struck gold with her first release. 'Amma, Nana, O Tamil Ammayi' (2003) was a huge success at the Box Office, and Asin won the Filmfare best Telugu actress award for her portrayal. Her next releases, 'Sivamani' and 'Laxmi Narsimha', turned out to be average hits. One gossip under discussion in film nagar is heroine Anjali‘s life story in the recent hit movie Ladies and Gentlemen. In the movie, Jasmine played a role of heroine with the screen name Anjali opposite to Mahat Raghavendra.
Vijaya Nirmala is a South Indian actress and director. In 2002, the Guinness Book of Records named her as the female director who had made the highest number of films. She has directed 47 movies. Check out the latest love interests for Vijaya Nirmala. 
The movie plots the story of the love shared between the characters played by Kunchacko Boban and Biju Menon. They play the sons of Innocent; Kunchacko Boban as his real son and Biju Menon as his adopted son from Bengali parents. Kajol Aggarwal's sister Nisha Aggarwal is the heroine of Kunchacko Boban. 'Parankimala' fame Vinutha Lal is the lady love of Biju Menon. 'Bhaiyya Bhaiyya' is directed by Johny Antony and the story, script, and dialogues are by Benny P Nayarambalam. National Award winners Salim Kumar and Suraj Venjarammoodu are also seen in important roles in this movie. Vijayaraghavan, Shammi Thilakan, Sudheer, Gregory, Jayasankar, Ambika Mohan, and Tesni Khan also include the cast. Laisamma Pottur is the producer of 'Bhaiyya Bhaiyya'. 
Mamta Mohandas born on 14 November 1985, in Manama, Bahrain. Mamta was born in Bahrain into a well off Malayali family which originally hails from Kannur. She is an Indian film actress and playback singer. She has mainly acted in Malayalam films, besides few Telugu and Tamil productions and one Kannada film. One gossip under discussion in film nagar is heroine Anjali‘s life story in the recent hit movie Ladies and Gentlemen. In the movie, Jasmine played a role of heroine with the screen name Anjali opposite to Mahat Raghavendra.
Vijaya Nirmala (Telugu: విజయ నిర్మల) is an Indian film actress, producer and director known for her works predominantly in Telugu cinema. She has directed 44 films in Telugu, and In 2002, entered the Guinness Book of Records as the female director to direct the highest number of films. She has a son Naresh who is also an actor, from her first marriage, after the demise of her first husband, she married actor Krishna who was already married and continued staying with her post marriage.