There will never be a pure culture in this system of things. However, depending on what you believe in of course, there is to come a time when all the disturbing mixed up thin … gs we deaql with on a daily basis will come to pass and a new earth will form. It will be at that time when we can truly obtain a pure culture. A pure culture is a culture consisting of only one strain. YOU CAN OBTAIN A PURE CULTURE BY PICKING OUT A SMALL PORTION OF THE MIXED CULTURE(which will form the pure culture) AND GROWING THEM ON A NEW CULTURE MEDIA.
Difference Between Capitalism and the Mixed Economy. • Categorized under Politics | Difference Between Capitalism and the Mixed Economy. Capitalism vs Mixed Economy. There has been resurgence in the economic system known as capitalism during the past two decades. 4. The mixed economy is a balance between socialism and capitalism. As a result, some institutions are owned and maintained by the government, while others are owned by the private sector. 5. The mixed economy allows economic participation from both the private sector and the government.
A pure culture is one in which only one kind of microbial species is found whereas in mixed culture two or more microbial species formed colonies. Culture on the other hand, is the lifestyle that the people in the country (although it doesn't have to necessarily be a country, it could be a group of people or a period of time, etc.) live. If this answer helped you, please help me and click 'recommend' and make me a recommended answerer! Thanks (:
Best Answer: Pure culture is when you're 100% one thing, mixed culture is when you're more than one thing. If i remember correctly, a pure culture is grown from a single cell (often extracted from a mixed culture) of which the origin is known. A mixed culture is not.
A mixed culture is a container that holds two or more identified and easily differentiated species of microorganisms. A contaminated culture was once pure or mixed (and … thus a known entity) but since had contaminants (unwanted microbes of uncertain identity) introduced into it. A pure culture is a culture consisting of only one strain. YOU CAN OBTAIN A PURE CULTURE BY PICKING OUT A SMALL PORTION OF THE MIXED CULTURE(which will form the pure culture) AND GROWING THEM ON A NEW CULTURE MEDIA.
By Investopedia AAA |. A: A mixed economy is one in which the government does not own all of the means of production, but government interests may legally circumvent, replace, limit or otherwise regulate private economic interests. The first is state ownership of production, or socialism. The second is controlled private ownership, or a mixed economy, in which the state allows varying degrees of freedom between producers and consumers.
A pure culture is one in which only one kind of microbial species is found whereas in mixed culture two or more microbial species formed colonies. A pure culture is a culture consisting of only one strain. YOU CAN OBTAIN A PURE CULTURE BY PICKING OUT A SMALL PORTION OF THE MIXED CULTURE(which will form the pure culture) AND GROWING THEM ON A NEW CULTURE MEDIA.
A culture is a society's total way of living and a society is a group that live in a defined territory and participate in common culture. While the answer given is in essence … true, societies originally form for the express purpose to enhance survival of its members. Culture on the other hand, is the lifestyle that the people in the country (although it doesn't have to necessarily be a country, it could be a group of people or a period of time, etc.) live. If this answer helped you, please help me and click 'recommend' and make me a recommended answerer! Thanks (:
Best Answer: A pure culture comprises a single species or strains. A mixed culture is taken from a source and may contain multiple strains or species. A contaminated culture contains organisms that derived from some place other than the source. Pure culture would be just one type of cell, mixed would have more than one type of cell and contaminated would have bacterial cells that had got into the culture by mistake. S · 4 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.