Diverticulosis happens when pouches (diverticula) form in the wall of the colon. If these pouches get inflamed or infected, it is called diverticulitis. Diverticulitis can be very painful. Doctors aren't sure what causes diverticula in the colon (diverticulosis). But they think that a low-fiber diet may play a role. Doctors aren't sure what causes diverticulitis. Bacteria grow in the pouches, and this can lead to inflammation or infection. Symptoms of diverticulitis may last from a few hours to a week or more. Symptoms include: 1  Belly pain, usually in the lower left side, that is sometimes worse when you move. 2  This is the most common symptom. 3  Fever and chills. 4  Bloating and gas. 5  Diarrhea or constipation. 6  Nausea and sometimes vomiting
1 Diverticulosis is a condition that describes small pouches in the wall of the digestive tract that occur when the inner layer of the digestive tract bulges through weak spots in the outer layer. 2  When these diverticula become inflamed, that is called diverticulitis. 1 One of the main causes of diverticulosis is a diet low in fiber. 2  Many people with diverticulosis have no symptoms. 3  When symptoms do occur they can include. 4  pain in the abdomen, 5  bloating, 6  constipation (less often, diarrhea), and. 7  cramping. 8  Diverticulitis is more serious and symptoms
A high-fiber diet and pain medications help relieve symptoms in most cases of diverticulosis. Uncomplicated diverticulitis with mild symptoms usually requires the person to rest, take oral antibiotics, and be on a liquid diet for a period of time. Increasing the amount of fiber in the diet may reduce symptoms of diverticulosis and prevent complications such as diverticulitis. Fiber keeps stool soft and lowers pressure inside the colon so that bowel contents can move through easily.
1 Abdominal pain, constipation, and diarrhea, can occur with diverticulosis, which then may be called diverticular disease. 2  Diverticulosis can be diagnosed with barium X-rays, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, or CT scan. 3  Treatment of diverticulosis can include high fiber diet, and anti-spasmodic drugs. 1 Treatment of diverticulosis can include high fiber diet, and anti-spasmodic drugs. 2  When diverticulosis is associated with inflammation and infection the condition is called diverticulitis. 3  Complications of diverticulosis and diverticulitis include rectal bleeding, abdominal infections, and colon obstruction
Foods That Aggravate Diverticulitis. Eating all the wrong foods can cause diverticulitis to flare up. Diverticulitis occurs when intestinal pouches, ... 
Diverticulitis is a common digestive disease which involves the formation of pouches (diverticula) within the bowel wall. This process is known as diverticulosis, and typically occurs within the large intestine, or colon, although it can occasionally occur in the small intestine as well. Most people with diverticulosis do not have any discomfort or symptoms; however, symptoms may include mild cramps, bloating, and constipation. Other diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and stomach ulcers cause similar problems, so these symptoms do not always mean a person has diverticulosis.
Chili peppers may aggravate diverticulitis. Photo Credit Chili image by photorich from Fotolia.com. Diverticulitis develops from diverticulosis, a disease in which small pouches, or diverticula, form in the large intestine. It is when these small pouches become inflamed that the condition is called diverticulitis. The symptoms of diverticulitis include pain in the lower-left side of the abdomen, vomiting, fever, constipation and diarrhea
Foods high in refined sugars, such as junk foods and soda pop, can aggravate diverticulitis, causing more inflammation as well as bloating. Opt for foods containing natural sugars, such as fruit, and instead of soda pop, drink six to eight glasses of filtered water daily to stay hydrated. Photo Credit Chili image by photorich from Fotolia.com. Diverticulitis develops from diverticulosis, a disease in which small pouches, or diverticula, form in the large intestine. It is when these small pouches become inflamed that the condition is called diverticulitis.