Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv.
Report Abuse. I recently did a Flight change for my Ryanair flight costing me £48.99 through checkinpal.com, worked out alot cheaper than going direct through Ryanairs call centre as they have an expensive phone number and their website quoted £60 or £75 depending on the season. I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: According to their table of fees a flight change will cost you £35.00p/€35.00 per one way flight if done on-line, or £55.00p/€55.00 per flight via the call centre. http://www.ryanair.com/en/questions/tabl... I need to change a flight,the name on the ticket will be the same, but I need to change the destination. Source(s): cost change flight ryanair: https://biturl.im/cZgWv.
For example, Ryanair charges £100 to change a name and many of their flights are cheaper than this. Cancellations. Most cheap flights are non refundable and if you're flying with a low cost airline then no flights are refundable, unless it's an extreme case. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all.
The cost of changing a flight or flight date can vary from £15 per person plus fare up to £40 per person. The price for changing the name on a ticket varies from £25 per person with up to £120 and some airlines don't allow you do it at all. If you need to cancel your flight and want a refund then the charge for this vary from £15 to £40 and some airlines don't offer any refunds at all.
Flight Change Fee. Ryanair charge a flight change fee whenever you need to make an amendment to a booked flight. You must expect this by now – there is always a Ryanair fee to pay, but we can help you save. 1 The Solution: For many people the flight change fee will be higher than the cost of a new ticket, so we recommend checking the cost of a new ticket on Low Cost airline comparison site WeGoLo first.
Adam's stepdad got it wrong because his surname is West on Facebook but he only did that as a joke. Ryanair says the normal fee to change a name on a ticket is £110 (if booked via Ryanair's website) but his girlfriend India was on it too, which doubled the cost. 
Many budget airlines charge for the use of a credit card, but only Ryanair charges per person, per flight. How Much You Could Pay. Ryanair's credit card fee is 5€ per person per flight. This means a family-of-six on a return flight will pay a collosal 60€ just in credit card fees. 3. Ryanair's Excess Luggage Fee. All airlines charge for excess luggage, but Ryanair has the lowest baggage allowance in Europe (15kg) and the highest excess luggage fee too. How Much You Could Pay. 20€ per kilo.
1 The Problem: Ryanair will charge you £25 per person per one way flight, so if 2 of you have booked a return flight, expect to pay £100 to change the time or date of the flight, PLUS any difference in the cost between the original fare paid and the lowest applicable fare available at the time the change is made. 1 The Solution: For many people the flight change fee will be higher than the cost of a new ticket, so we recommend checking the cost of a new ticket on Low Cost airline comparison site WeGoLo first.