Because canning most often involves high heat, it can rob foods of vast amounts of nutrients. For example, in the process of canning mixed vegetables, the vitamin C loss can be as high as 67%. During the canning of tomato juice, up to 70% of the original folic acid can be lost. Heating does not damage protein, fiber, and minerals in the same way as it can damage vitamins and phytonutrients. You can expect to receive fairly full protein, fiber, and mineral benefits from canned beans—in much the same way as you would receive these same benefits from dry beans cooked at home.
Most of the nutrients in food (minerals, proteins, fats, carbohydrates) are not destroyed by heat, and many common foods are unpalatable or unsafe if they are not cooked. I recommend eating the widest possible variety of fruits and vegetables, raw or cooked, and fresh, frozen, canned or dried. 
Pickling means steeping a food in a preservative, usually brine or vinegar. Typically the food is a cucumber, which is not a dynamo of nutrition to begin with. But nearly anything can be pickled, including green tomatoes, green beans, cauliflower, peppers, beets, onions and carrots. Before the advent of refrigeration and canning, pickled vegetables were a necessity of life.
Cucumbers and dill pickles are both low in calories -- a cup of sliced cucumber contains 16 calories, while an equivalent serving of dill pickles contains 19. Sweet pickles are higher in calories, at 139 calories per cup because of their sugar content. Reaching for either cucumbers or pickles boosts your fiber intake. 
Canning is a high heat process that can destroy nutrients. Yet, how this can affect food really depends upon the food in question. Heating does not damage protein, fiber, and minerals in the same way as it can damage vitamins and phytonutrients. You can expect to receive fairly full protein, fiber, and mineral benefits from canned beans—in much the same way as you would receive these same benefits from dry beans cooked at home.
The idea of pickling is to create an environment that is inhospitable to the microbes, which would normally cause food to decay. This is usually done using a combination of salt, acid, and/or fermentation with bacteria. In some cases, spices, oil, and sugar are also added. Pickling is very common around the world, and you will find a vast array of pickled foods, ranging from a simple pickled cucumber to pickled mussels or pickled lemons. 1  Here in the UK, you can find pickled onions, beetroot, and gherkins, which are commonly served with cold meats.
Pickling is the process of preserving or expanding the lifespan of food by either anaerobic fermentation in brine or immersion in vinegar. The resulting food is called a pickle, or to prevent ambiguity, prefaced with the adjective pickled. The pickling procedure will typically affect the food's texture and flavor. In East Asia, vinaigrette (vegetable oil and vinegar) is used as the pickling medium. Another distinguishing characteristic is a pH 4.6 or lower, which is sufficient to kill most bacteria. Pickling can preserve perishable foods for months. Natural fermentation at room temperature, by lactic acid bacteria, produces the required acidity. Other pickles are made by placing vegetables in vinegar. Unlike the canning process, pickling (which includes fermentation) does not require that the food be completely sterile before it is sealed.
Nutrients Maintained or Gained. The amount of fiber in pickled vegetables is usually about the same as cooked vegetables. Fat-soluble vitamins, such as A, D, E and K, are retained during pickling, just as they are when cooked. Pickled red onion in jar Photo Credit Azurita/iStock/Getty Images. The process of pickling vegetables involves fermentation, often facilitated with the addition of vinegar. The high acid content of pickled vegetables discourages spoilage, which is one reason pickling was popular before the advent of refrigeration. Canned vegetables lose some, but not all, nutrients during the pickling process. Cucumbers are a popular vegetable for pickling. Artichokes, asparagus, beets, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, celery, green beans, green tomatoes, peppers, okra and onions also respond well to pickling
Nutrient changes always occur when foods are pickled. This rule applies not only to cucumbers but to pickled tomatoes, carrots, cabbage, and many other pickled foods. Quick pickled cucumbers are usually soaked for a short period of time (several days at most) in a highly acidic solution (usually involving vinegar). Fermented pickles are usually soaked in a brine-based solution (highly salt concentrated) for longer periods (up to many months).