Background. Superior vena cava syndrome (SVCS) is obstruction of blood flow through the superior vena cava (SVC). It is a medical emergency and most often manifests in patients with a malignant disease process within the thorax. A patient with SVCS requires immediate diagnostic evaluation and therapy. 
The inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the human body. It collects blood from veins serving the tissues inferior to the heart and returns this blood to the right atrium of the heart. 
Introduction. The superior vena cava is a large vein located in the upper chest, which collects blood from the head and arms and delivers it back to the right atrium of the heart. If this vein is compressed by outside structures, or if a thrombus or clot develops within it, return blood flow to the heart is impeded. The superior vena cava is a large vein located in the upper chest, which collects blood from the head and arms and delivers it back to the right atrium of the heart
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The superior vena cava (also known as the cava or cva) is a large diameter (24 mm), yet short, vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body to the heart 's right atrium. It is located in the anterior right superior mediastinum. 
Confidence votes 390. The superior vena cava is located in the upper thoracic region. It is the main vein that drains into the right atrium of the heart. Blood returning from the brain, upper thoracic region, and arms travels through this vein to the heart. 
For example, in the superior vena cava syndrome, the symptoms that result from compression of the large vein that carries blood down to the heart. The superior vena cava is located in the middle of the chest and is surrounded by rigid structures and lymph nodes. Vena cava: The superior vena cava is the large vein which returns blood to the heart from the head, neck and both upper limbs. The inferior vena cava returns blood to the heart from the lower part of the body. The return of blood via the vena cava can be compromised and cause disease
The inferior vena cava carries blood from the lower half of the body whilst the superior vena cava carries blood from the upper half of the body. It is formed by the joining of the right and the left common iliac veins, usually at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. 
Anatomy. The inferior vena cava (IVC, also known as the posterior vena cava) is a large diameter vein that is located posterior to the abdominal cavity and runs alongside of the right side of the vertebral column (thus making it a retroperitoneal structure), with the aorta lying laterally on the left of the IVC. After circulating through the body systemically, deoxygenated blood returns to the right atrium of the heart through either the superior vena cava, which drains the upper body, or the IVC that drains everything below the diaphragm, including the lower trunk, abdomen, pelvis, and lower limbs.