Keep in mind that this is a one-time, non-renewing membership and you will only be billed for the cost of the membership you select above.
The short of it is this: if you plan on using Ancestry.com for a while, go with a longer membership. Just be aware that your cost will be full term at the beginning. And if you don’t need to go outside of the United States for your research, you can begin with the U.S. Deluxe
My subscription was up for renewal in September when I received an email from ancestry.com in regard to it. I was given a one time special. $155.40 for the US version renewal and $199 for the US and World subscription.
Our Worldwide membership provides everything you need to trace your family history around the world. Scour the globe with unlimited access to our entire library of more than 13 billion records, plus guaranteed access to all our new releases.
Details. Discover your family story with an exclusive 30% World Explorer membership discount for an entire year. Ancestry is the world's largest online family history resource dedicated to helping everyone discover, preserve and share their family history.
The cost may seem like a lot, but remember that you get what you pay for. It’s true that you can pay a fraction of this price for other genealogy sites, but you also get a fraction of the records. And quite frankly, usually the ratio is not in your favor.
There is an option for a free trial or a guest account (see our Ancestry.com Free Trial tutorial for instructions on how to get either of these), but if you want access to certain records (or) after your free trial expires, you will have to pay either a monthly rate or a 6-month subscription fee.
Ancestry.com has loads of free databases. All you need is a registered guest account. Just be aware that while there are perhaps a hundreds of free databases, you only have a fraction of what’s really available.
The World membership is a little more pricey, but if you have ancestors across the seas, it can be worth it. Just make sure you understand that you’re paying for the cost of your complete membership up front, not on a month by month basis (unless you choose the monthly subscription).
They currently charge $19.99 / month for a U.S. Discovery membership, $34.99 / month for a World Explorer membership, and $44.99 / month for the new World Explorer Plus membership. Some other sites charge fees as low as $5-$8 per month.