Once Upon a December  is a song from the 1997 Fox Animation Studios film Anastasia. It is sung by the character Anya who is voiced by Liz Callaway. The song was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song. A pop version with vocals by country singer Deana Carter was also featured on the film's soundtrack and was released as a music video. The song is heard during the film's prologue and is performed by Angela Lansbury (as the Dowager Empress Marie) and Lacey Chabert (as young Anastasia) and later in the film performed again by Lansbury but with Callaway when the Dowager Empress and Anastasia are reunited.
And a song someone sings, Once upon a December. Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully, Across my memory! Someone holds me safe and warm, Horses prance through a silver storm, Figures dancing gracefully, Across my memory... General Comment i have a very sweet memory with this song since i was 2!!!! i saw the animation of Anastasia and i loved it and i sang this song since then! tnx. elenamd on September 05, 2014 Link. No Replies Log in to reply. There was an error.
Things my heart. Used to know, Things it yearns to remember... And a song. Someone sings. Once upon a December. Dancing Bears, Painted Wings, Things I almost remember. And a song someone sings, Once upon a December. Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully Across my memory.... Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully Across my memory..
Things I almost remember, And a song someone sings. Once upon a December. Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully. Across my memory... (Instrumental interlude). Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully. Across my memory..
I know you, that look in your eyes is so familiar a gleam. And I know it's true that visions are seldom all they seem. But if I know you, I know what you'll do. You'll love me at once, the way you did once upon a dream. Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-aah mmh. Ah-ah, ah-ah, ah-aah mmh, mmh-mmh, mmh-mmh. I know you, that gleam in your eyes is so familiar a gleam. And I know it's true that visions are seldom all they seem. But if I know you, I know what you'll do. You'll love me at once, the way you did once upon a dream. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics
Once Upon a December as written by and Stephen Flaherty Lynn Ahrens.... 
Dancing bears, painted wings. Things I almost remember. And a song someone sings. Once upon a December. Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully. Across my memory. Someone holds me safe and warm. Horses prance through a silver storm. Figures dancing gracefully
Once Upon A December was written by Fain, Sammy / Lawrence, Jack. Once Upon A December was written by Fain, Sammy / Lawrence, Jack. (No other information is available for this lyric-would you like to add something today?). 