Ecology. The bacteria that cause plague, Yersinia pestis, maintain their existence in a cycle involving rodents and their fleas. In urban areas or places with dense rat infestations, the plague bacteria can cycle between rats and their fleas.
Yersinia Pestis. Yersinia pestis are the bacteria that cause plague. They are found in rodents and their fleas, and occur in many areas of the world, including the United States. Other animals can carry them as well. Rock squirrels and their fleas are the most frequent sources of human infection in the Southwestern United States. 
Yersinia pestis bacteria are responsible for the various types of plague, such as bubonic plague. Yersinia pestis are the bacteria that cause plague. They can infect humans, rodents, and ectoparasites (such as fleas and lice). Once infection with Yersinia pestis bacteria has been confirmed, the patient is hospitalized, isolated, and treated with antibiotics
Yersinia pestis (formerly Pasteurella pestis) is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped coccobacillus, a facultative anaerobic bacterium that can infect humans and animals. It causes the deadly disease named plague. Y. pestis was discovered in 1894 by Alexandre Yersin, a Swiss / French physician and bacteriologist from the Pasteur Institute, during an epidemic of plague in Hong Kong.
Yersinia pestis. By: Katia Sutyak. Life History Yersinia pestis is the causative agent of the systemic invasive infectious disease often referred to as the plague. The Y. pestis is an extremely virulent pathogen that is likely to cause severe illness and death upon infection unless antibiotics are administered.
Yersinia pestis bacteria can cause three different types of plague: bubonic, septicemic, or pneumonic. In bubonic plague, the most common form, bacteria infect the lymph system and causes it to become inflamed. (The lymph or lymphatic system is a major component of your body's immune system. The organs within the lymphatic system are the tonsils, adenoids, spleen, and thymus.). Pneumonic Plague. This is the most serious form of plague and occurs when Y. pestis bacteria infect the lungs and cause pneumonia. 1  You get primary pneumonic plague when you inhale plague bacteria from an infected person or animal. 2  You usually have to be in direct or close contact with the ill person or animal
Transmission occurs most often through the bites of infected fleas or rodents -- symptoms tend to appear one to six days later. Yersinia pestis are the bacteria that cause plague. They can infect humans, rodents, and ectoparasites (such as fleas and lice). Once infection with Yersinia pestis bacteria has been confirmed, the patient is hospitalized, isolated, and treated with antibiotics