Varieties of possums found in Australia include the ring tail possum, various species of pygmy possums, brush tailed possum and gliders. The creature known as an opossum, which is unrelated to the possum, is found in North America, while a type of water-possum, known as the yapok, is found in central and South America. They usually live only to around age two in the wild and maybe up to four years in ca … ptivity. If the question refers to true possums, which are marsupials found in Australia and nearby islands, it depends on the species. Some examples are listed below.The average life span of a ringtail possum is 5-7 years
Although opossums look like a big rat, they are actually related to the koala and kangaroo. The opossum (also called possum) is the only marsupial (female with a pouch) in North America. They are about the size of a cat, have black to gray fur, and long, pointed noses (pink in color). Opossums have many teeth, more than any other land mammal, and a prehensile tail, one that can grasp or hold
The common brushtail possum can be found in a variety of habitats, such as forests, semiarid areas and even cultivated or urban areas. It is mostly a forest inhabiting species, however it is also found in treeless areas. In New Zealand, possums favour broadleaf-podocarp near farmland pastures. The common brushtail possum has a head and body length of 32–58 cm with a tail length of 24–40 cm. It weighs 1.2-4.5 kg. Males are generally larger than females. In addition, the coat of the male tends to be reddish at the shoulders.
Possums do not live in North America. Possum is the shortened form of the word opossum in North America. True possums are found only in Australia and New Zealand, to which t … hey have been introduced. The Virginia opossum is found throughout Mexico and to the north, east of the Rocky Mountains, as far as Ontario. They usually live only to around age two in the wild and maybe up to four years in ca … ptivity. If the question refers to true possums, which are marsupials found in Australia and nearby islands, it depends on the species. Some examples are listed below.The average life span of a ringtail possum is 5-7 years
Possums are essentially herbivorous and insectivorous, meaning they will eat a variety of foods. Possums' feeding habits range from omnivores (the Common Brushtail possum) to specialist browsers of eucalyptus (Greater Glider), insectivores (Mountain Pygmy Possum) and nectar-feeders (Honey Possum). 
There are more than 60 different species of opossum, which are often called possums. The most notable is the Virginia opossum or common opossum—the only marsupial (pouched mammal) found in the United States and Canada. A female opossum gives birth to helpless young as tiny as honeybees. 
The common brushtail possum was introduced to New Zealand in 1837 to establish a fur industry, but in the mild subtropical climate of New Zealand, and with few to no natural predators, it thrived to the extent that it became a major agricultural and conservation pest. The common brushtail possum has a head and body length of 32–58 cm with a tail length of 24–40 cm. It weighs 1.2-4.5 kg. Males are generally larger than females. In addition, the coat of the male tends to be reddish at the shoulders.
Possums eat native trees and plants, berries, flowers, insects and snails. Rata, kamahi, tawa and pohutukawa are especially vulnerable to possum damage as these tree species are more palatable. They are also known to eat the eggs and chicks of native birds including the endangered kiwi, kukupa and kokako. 
Like most possums, the common brushtail possum is nocturnal. It is mainly a folivore, but has been known to eat small mammals such as rats. In most Australian habitats, leaves of eucalyptus are a significant part of the diet but rarely the sole item eaten. The tail is prehensile and naked on its lower underside. The common brushtail possum has a head and body length of 32–58 cm with a tail length of 24–40 cm. It weighs 1.2-4.5 kg. Males are generally larger than females. In addition, the coat of the male tends to be reddish at the shoulders.