Your dentist may perform oral surgery or refer you to an oral surgeon, called an oral and maxillofacial surgeon. An oral surgeon is a dentist who has completed a university post-graduate specialty program in oral and maxillofacial surgery. Your dentist or oral surgeon may suggest that you add 1/2 teaspoon of salt to a cup of warm water each time you rinse. Rinse 4 or 5 times a day, for 3 or 4 days. What NOT to do. 1  Do not rinse your mouth within the first 24 hours, even if the bleeding and oozing leave a bad taste in your mouth.
Call Us: 1-800-SmileGen. (800-764-5343). An oral surgeon, also referred to as an oral-maxillofacial surgeon, is a dental professional who specializes in performing surgical and non-surgical procedures on the mouth, face, and neck. These procedures may include oral surgery, reconstructive surgery, and cosmetic dentistry. Your general dentist will typically refer you to an oral surgeon. At SmileGeneration.com, you can find a list of qualified oral surgeons in your area, view staff bios, read patient reviews, and request your appointment online in minutes.
No, an oral surgeon and a dental surgeon are not the same. A dental surgeon is simply a dentist. They are trained to do a certain amount of surgery in the mouth, such as removing teeth. But they haven’t studied to do the more complex surgeries which anoral and maxillofacial surgeon performs.
When your oral surgeon works in collaboration with other dental and medical professionals on your case, it is important that you have the same level of trust and confidence in their professional skills and care as you do in those of your oral surgeon. An oral surgeon is skilled in the following: Removing diseased and impacted teeth and administering anesthesia. An oral surgeon can remove impacted and damaged teeth and provide in-office anesthesia services, including intravenous (IV) sedation and general anesthesia. Placing dental implants.
Some of the procedures oral and maxillofacials surgeons do are: 1  Removal of teeth. 2  Oral surgeons commonly remove impacted wisdom teeth as well teeth which are broken down and difficult to remove. 3  Orthognathic surgery (jaw surgery). A dental surgeon is simply a dentist. They are trained to do a certain amount of surgery in the mouth, such as removing teeth. But they haven’t studied to do the more complex surgeries which anoral and maxillofacial surgeon performs.
Oral & Maxillofacial surgery (OMS) specializes in treating many diseases, injuries and defects in the head, neck, face, jaws and the hard and soft tissues of the Oral (mouth) and Maxillofacial (jaws and face) region. It is an internationally recognized surgical specialty. Oral & Maxillofacial (OMF) Surgeons specialise in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases affecting the mouth, jaws, face and neck.
Education and Training for Oral Surgeons. To be certified as a diplomate of the American Board of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, an oral and maxillofacial surgeon (commonly called an OMFS or oral surgeon) must graduate from an accredited dental school and be licensed in the state in which he/she is practicing. An oral surgeon is skilled in the following: Removing diseased and impacted teeth and administering anesthesia. An oral surgeon can remove impacted and damaged teeth and provide in-office anesthesia services, including intravenous (IV) sedation and general anesthesia. Placing dental implants.
1 If you are badly injured in an accident, oral surgeons can reconstruct your jaw and implant missing teeth. 2  If you need a bridge or an implant, you'll need an oral surgeon to help you. 3  There is a lot of overlap between oral surgery and other dental specialties. 
1 Removal of teeth. 2  Oral surgeons commonly remove impacted wisdom teeth as well teeth which are broken down and difficult to remove. 3  Orthognathic surgery (jaw surgery). 4  This surgery can be done to realign the jaws and may be done in conjunction with orthodontic braces. A dental surgeon is simply a dentist. They are trained to do a certain amount of surgery in the mouth, such as removing teeth. But they haven’t studied to do the more complex surgeries which anoral and maxillofacial surgeon performs.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Oral surgeons, also called maxillofacial surgeons, perform many different dental procedures to correct problems with the teeth, gums, jaw, and face. If it was something to do with the tongue, maybe an oral surgeon would be more capable of handling it. My only suggestion if you are trying to find an oral surgeon is to always get a second opinion if you need some sort of major work done. I know that some people are constrained by what their insurance can cover.