We are still trying to find a solution to our dying redwood trees. The irrigation schedule is now 2 gals per tree, per day, 4 days a week. The trees were shipped in 15 gallon plastic containers. The trees were planted with sufficient room for root growth and to allow for the planting mix to be placed at the base of the hole, as well as around the tree. The planting mix was approx. 20% compost, 80% natural soil. Yes, per day. Your weekly irrigation amounts are 8 gallons per tree per week, but the tree needs 70 gallons per week. For a period of time, the tree will be able to use water that is stored in the soil from winter rainfall. We know that in most sandy soils, there is about 1 gallon of water per cubic foot of soil.
Arborist and Parks Service Manager Koko Panossian stands before a dying redwood tree which is slated to be taken down at Verdugo Park in Glendale, May 11, 2015. “One in particular may have to be taken out.”. Redwoods planted in Southern California are like fish out of water. They need to find moisture or die. In their natural habitat, they get 50-100 inches of rain, including fog, which cools the treetops, explained Los Angeles County arborist Frank McDonough.
|. Arborist and Parks Service Manager Koko Panossian stands before a dying redwood tree which is slated to be taken down at Verdugo Park in Glendale, May 11, 2015. Panossian and fellow Aborist William McKinley are seeing the effects of the drought on a stand of California Coast Redwood Trees at the park. “One in particular may have to be taken out.”. Redwoods planted in Southern California are like fish out of water. They need to find moisture or die. In their natural habitat, they get 50-100 inches of rain, including fog, which cools the treetops, explained Los Angeles County arborist Frank McDonough.
Root rot affects redwoods in containers and can quickly spread through the tree from the roots. Drooping and yellowing leaves are signs of root rot. The roots look brown and soft, whereas healthy roots are hard and lighter in color. If caught early, root rot can be contained and the tree can be saved. Growing redwoods outside of their native area is possible takes extra effort. Plant redwood saplings in pots and keep them inside a greenhouse or put in the ground. Both methods involve some risk to the tree. Some of the reasons why the redwood tree is dying include wrong amount of moisture, temperature fluctuations and disease
The coast redwood is one of the most commonly planted landscape trees in Bakersfield California (Karlik, Personal Communication). They are planted extensively in the Sacramento Valley and all along Interstate Highway 5. Redwoods are planted all over Southern California, both along the coast and inland. The effect has been so dramatic that many people suspect a new pathogen or disease outbreak. With the confounding fact that the sudden oak death pathogen (Phytophthora ramorum) has been found to cause disease in redwoods, people are more than ever alarmed about the apparent lack of health in their redwood trees.
Evidence of the drought’s effects can be seen in the coastal redwoods, as they are dropping undersized cones, turning brown and shedding leaves. Younger trees, located away from their native forest, in residential areas and parks, are even dying from the lack of water. In an effort to gauge the effects of the drought on the redwoods, Ambrose and his colleagues Todd Dawson and Wendy Baxter have studied the trees at two sites in Santa Cruz where the trees are showing symptoms of water stress. “Redwoods are an iconic key species,” Ambrose said.
The redwood's native habitat is warm and humid. Redwoods grow best in temperatures from 20 to 90 degrees. A tree in temperatures that are too low or too high dies. They are also more susceptible to disease. Growing redwoods outside of their native area is possible takes extra effort. Plant redwood saplings in pots and keep them inside a greenhouse or put in the ground. Both methods involve some risk to the tree. Some of the reasons why the redwood tree is dying include wrong amount of moisture, temperature fluctuations and
All around drought-stricken California, coast redwoods appear to be suffering. They’re shedding leaves, turning brown, and dropping undersized cones. Some of the state’s younger trees, situated in parks and residential areas hundreds of miles away from their native forests, are even dying [4]. 
California's awe-inspiring redwoods may be susceptible to a fast-spreading new disease that has already killed tens of thousands of oaks and other trees and infected many plant species in the state, according to preliminary findings by University of California scientists. Researchers said they found DNA evidence of the pathogen, Phytophthora ramorum, in dying shoots at the base of redwood trees in Big Sur and on the university's Berkeley campus, areas where the disease has infested other species.