Storyline. Alicia takes on the case of Dylan Stack, a lawyer who has refused to reveal the identity of his client who is wanted by the U.S. Treasury Department for creating a new digital currency called Bitcoin. Reviews: 2 user. Alicia defends a man who claims to represent the person who created a new online currency against the Treasury Department, while Dana tries to play Kalinda against Will to help the DA's case against him.
How to Mine Bitcoins – For Dummies. With lots of ups and downs (mostly ups) over the last six months, Bitcoins has generated lots of buzz around the world. Valuation of Bitcoin roared from a mere $12 to $238 (2000% rise), just before plunging a little last week. With big names like the Winklevoss twins getting involved in virtual currency, it is grabbing even more attention.
Get Started. Bitcoin was invented as a peer-to-peer system for online payments that does not require a trusted central authority. Since its inception in 2008, Bitcoin has grown into a technology, a currency, an investment vehicle, and a community of users. 
But Bitcoin is also the network of its users, who together build and distribute a collaborative record of who owns which bitcoins. No single person is in control, complex mathematics ensure that no one needs to be, and more than $5 billion is currently accounted for within the system. Or maybe what you’re buying might be embarrassing, and you would just rather not have your name and address in their members database. Unlike credit card transactions, bitcoin transactions do not require the company you’re purchasing from to know anything about you in order for them to accept your bitcoins.
Mining Bitcoins is like solving algorithms. The better hardware you have, chances are there you do it faster. So whosoever is the fastest to mine the block gets whole 25 Bitcoins for it. Naturally people do it in groups, to be more effective in this race. Valuation of Bitcoin roared from a mere $12 to $238 (2000% rise), just before plunging a little last week. With big names like the Winklevoss twins getting involved in virtual currency, it is grabbing even more attention.
-So here's a deal with Bitcoin, and the US [unk]-- -'Cause Bitcoin's been around for a very long time. -Since 2009. -That's a long time. -That so funny that you say it's very long. Okay, better get-- -Well, in internet time, that's like a decade. -True. It's a virtual currency. -Right. Jill Schlesinger carefully explains Bitcoin to The 404 guys so that their brains do not explode.
If you still can’t figure out what the heck a bitcoin is, this simple explanation for a five-year-old may help you ... We’re sitting on a park bench. It’s a great day. 
So I decided to create my own “What is Bitcoin for Dummies” video. 2:40 minutes of a completely non technical, simple explanation. And here’s the text version: Imagine for a second that you are in charge of the task of inventing money. 
Since bitcoins can’t be refunded by a third party like your credit card company, you’ll have less recourse in the event a business you’ve paid cheats you or doesn’t deliver what it promised. And the potential for your bitcoins to appreciate in value means you might not want to spend them, anyway. Or maybe what you’re buying might be embarrassing, and you would just rather not have your name and address in their members database. Unlike credit card transactions, bitcoin transactions do not require the company you’re purchasing from to know anything about you in order for them to accept your bitcoins.