Put the anemometer in the wind and read the scale. Anemometers can be divided into two classes: those that measure the wind's speed, and those that measure the wind's pressu … re; but as there is a close connection between the pressure and the speed, an anemometer designed for one will give information about both. There's a thing called the Beaufort scale that doesn't really have units, and is based on water wave action at a given wind velocity. Beaufort 0 is dead calm and Beaufort 12 i … s a hurricane. Knots (nautical miles per hour) is how wind is usually measured.
The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale is a 1 to 5 rating based on a hurricane's sustained wind speed. This scale estimates potential property damage. Hurricanes reaching Category 3 and higher are considered major hurricanes because of their potential for significant loss of life and damage. 
The Beaufort scale /ˈboʊfərt/ is an empirical measure that relates wind speed to observed conditions at sea or on land. Its full name is the Beaufort wind force scale, although it is a measure of wind speed and not of force in the scientific senses. Where v is the equivalent wind speed at 10 metres above the sea surface and B is Beaufort scale number. For example, B = 9.5 is related to 24.5 m/s which is equal to the lower limit of 10 Beaufort. Using this formula the highest winds in hurricanes would be 23 in the scale
Make and Use an Anemometer to measure Wind Speed Overview Wind is the horizontal movement of air. The instrument used to measure wind speed is called an anemometer, which is an indicator that will spin in the wind. The anemometer rotates at the same speed as the wind. It gives a direct measure of the speed of the wind. Wind speed is measured by using the Beaufort Wind Scale which is a scale of 0-12 based on visual clues. Depending on the ability of students, it is probably sufficient that they recognize calm air, and gentle, moderate, and strong breezes.
The Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale measures the amount of wind damage caused by hurricanes. The speed of the wind determines the category of the storm. Categories range from 1 to 5. Currently, the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale takes into account only wind speed. Since its development in 1971, it has gone through a few modifications. An earlier version used storm surge and central pressure as well as wind speed to determine damage. This scale was known as the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Scale
Measuring wind speed is important in weather forecasting, and in particular the forecasting of hurricanes and tornadoes. The Beaufort scale is used to illustrate the speed of wind at any particular time in terms of knots. 
The Beaufort scale is a scale for measuring wind speeds. It is based on observation rather than accurate measurement. It is the most widely used system to measure wind speed today. The scale was developed in 1805 by Sir Francis Beaufort. There are twelve levels, plus 0 for no wind. From 1946 to 1970, there were also beaufort levels 13 to 17.
The Saffir-Simpson scale measures the intensity of a hurricane. Wind speed is measured on a scale of 1-5 to give an estimate of potential property damage and flooding along the coast. The Categories are as follows: Category One Hurricane: Winds 74-95 mph. Category Two Hurricane: Winds 96-110 mph