1) FDM-Frequency division multiplexing where as TDM mean Time division multiplexing. 2) In FDM spectrum is divided into frequency whereas in TDM divided into time slot. 3) FDM … is used in 1st generation analog system whereas TDM is used in 2nd generation analog system. found this useful. The common practice is to divide the channel with FDM, so that you have a dedicated channel with a smaller frequency range. Each of the FDM channels is then occupied by multiple channels that are multiplexed using TDM. This is what telecoms do to allow a huge number of users to use a certain frequency band.
 Frequency-division multiplexing: FDM is an analog multiplexing technique that combines analog signals. Figure 8.3 Multiplexing Process Figure 8.4 Demultiplexing Process Example 1 Assume that a voice channel occupies a bandwidth of 4 kHz. The higher bit rate channels are allocated more slots per frame, and the output frame rate is a multiple of each input link. Figure 8.14 Multislot multiplexing  Pulse Stuffing: used when there is no GCD between the links.
Time-division multiplexing (TDM) is a digital (or in rare cases, analog) technology which uses time, instead of space or frequency, to separate the different data streams. Multiplexing is provided by the Physical Layer of the OSI model, while multiple access also involves a media access control protocol, which is part of the Data Link Layer.
We discussed frequency-division multiplexing (FDM), wave-division multiplexing (WDM), and time-division multiplexing (TDM). FDM and WDM are used to combine analog signals; the bandwidth is shared.TDM is used to combine digital signals; the time is shared. 6 (1) Describe the goals of multiplexing. 1. Multiplexing is the set of techniques that allows the simultaneous transmission of multiple signals across a single data link. In multiplexing, the word link refers to the physical path.
Write a 200- to 300-word response to the following: What is the nature of digital signals, binary, and other multilevel signal types? What are the advantages of digital signals over analog signals? Cover noise suppression in your explanation. 
Answer by Malirongmc. Confidence votes 3. Multi-level scheduling method for multiplexing packets in a communications network A method and system for data traffic management in telecommunications networks is presented. End user data streams are aggregated to achieve more efficient use of a communication channel
The multiplexing divides the capacity of the communication channel into several logical channels, one for each message signal or data stream to be transferred. A reverse process, known as demultiplexing, extracts the original channels on the receiver end. A device that performs the multiplexing is called a multiplexer (MUX), and a device that performs the reverse process is called a demultiplexer (DEMUX or DMX). Multiplexing is provided by the Physical Layer of the OSI model, while multiple access also involves a media access control protocol, which is part of the Data Link Layer.
In telecommunications and computer networks, multiplexing (sometimes contracted to muxing) is a method by which multiple analog message signals or digital data streams are combined into one signal over a shared medium. Multiplexing is provided by the Physical Layer of the OSI model, while multiple access also involves a media access control protocol, which is part of the Data Link Layer.