As with any vaccine, there is the possibility that broad use of BOOSTRIX could reveal adverse reactions not observed in clinical trials. In clinical studies, 4,949 adolescents (10 to 18 years of age) and 4,076 adults (19 years of age and older) were vaccinated with a single dose of BOOSTRIX.
1 Boostrix is a combined adult booster vaccine against whooping cough, diphtheria and tetanus. 2  Boostrix is funded for all New Zealand children at 11 years of age as part of the immunisation schedule. 3  It is also funded for pregnant women between 28 and 38 weeks gestation until the current whooping cough outbreak is over.
1 Boostrix is not a live vaccine and cannot cause disease. 2  Boostrix has been approved for use based on its safety and potential to prevent disease. 3  Please see further product information below including common side effects.
BOOSTRIX-IPV is a vaccine used as a booster to prevent four diseases, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough) and poliomyelitis (polio) in adults and children aged 4 years and older who have been previously vaccinated against these diseases.
Vaccination is the best way to protect against these diseases. BOOSTRIX-IPV vaccine cannot give you or your child diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis or polio infection. The vaccine will not protect against diseases caused by other types of bacteria, viruses or organisms.
BOOSTRIX is a vaccine used for booster vaccination against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis (whooping cough). The vaccine is sometimes called dTpa vaccine. BOOSTRIX is intended for use in children aged 10 years and older and adults.
Boostrix-IPV Suspension for injection is a brand of medicine containing the active ingredients diphtheria toxoid-tetanus toxoid-pertussis vaccine-poliomyelitis vaccine.
1 An adult vaccine against whooping cough, known as Boostrix, is available in New Zealand and is funded for pregnant women from 28 to 38 weeks gestation, until the current pertussis outbreak is over. 2  It is also recommended (but not funded) by the Ministry of Health for adults in close contact with newborns.
1 Boostrix has a safety record similar to other vaccines. 2  Boostrix is not a live vaccine and cannot cause disease. 3  Boostrix has been approved for use based on its safety and potential to prevent disease. 4  Please see further product information below including common side effects.