DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic that is used for treating urinary tract infections caused by several types of bacteria. It is effective against E. Coli, Enterobacter cystitis, Enterococcus, Klebsiella, and S taphylococcus aureus. 
Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. Nitrofurantoin is used to treat urinary tract infections. Nitrofurantoin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Do not take nitrofurantoin if you are in the last 2 to 4 weeks of pregnancy. Before you take nitrofurantoin, tell your doctor if you have kidney disease, anemia, diabetes, an electrolyte imbalance or vitamin B deficiency, a genetic enzyme deficiency, or any type of debilitating disease.
Macrobid oral may also be used to treat: Bladder Infection caused by Enterobacter, Infection of the Urinary Tract caused by Enterococcus, Urinary Tract Infection caused by Klebsiella Bacteria, Urinary Tract Infection caused by Staphylococcus Aureus, Urinary Tract Infection Prevention. 
Macrobid contains two forms of nitrofurantoin. Seventy-five percent of the nitrofurantoin is in the monohydrate form and is mixed with a special powder. In the digestive tract, the powder and the nitrofurantoin monohydrate form a gel that releases the medication slowly over time. Macrobid ® (nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystalline) is a prescription antibiotic approved to treat urinary tract infections (UTIs).
Nitrofurantoin, sold under the trade name Macrobid among others, is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections. It is not effective for kidney infections. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and headaches. Rarely numbness, lung problems, or liver problems may occur. 
6 Reviews. 6 Reviews. Macrobid is the brand name for nitrofurantoin, an antibiotic used to treat or prevent urinary tract infections. Macrobid works by killing the bacteria that cause the infection or by preventing the bacteria from growing. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Macrobid, made by Proctor and Gamble Pharmaceuticals, in 1992.
This medication is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections (acute cystitis). It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu). Swallow the medication whole for best results. Do not use magnesium trisilicate-containing antacids while taking this medication. These antacids can bind with nitrofurantoin, preventing its full absorption into your system. Antibiotics work best when the amount of medicine in your body is kept at a constant level.
Nitrofurantoin is an antibacterial agent specific for urinary tract infections. The Macrobid® brand of nitrofurantoin is a hard gelatin capsule shell containing the equivalent of 100 mg of nitrofurantoin in the form of 25 mg of nitrofurantoin macrocrystals and 75 mg of nitrofurantoin monohydrate. 
Nitrofurantoin is used to treat urinary tract infections. This medicine is an antibiotic. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. 