Comparison to Other Foods. Shrimp has about as much vitamin K in each 3-ounce serving as 1 cup of cooked beets, 3 ounces of canned salmon, 3 ounces of clams, 1 raw strawberry or 1 ear of cooked corn on the cob. Considerations. To maximize the amount of vitamin K you obtain, eat shrimp with a source of dietary fat. Vitamin K is a fat-soluble vitamin and needs to be consumed with fat in order for it to be absorbed in the intestines.
written by: Kristina Dems • edited by: Donna Cosmato • updated: 8/21/2010. Discover the health benefits of shrimp by reading this informative article about its nutrient contents. Learn how these vitamins and minerals prevent prostate cancer and thyroid gland disorder, as well as improve our skin, hair and bones.
5.1 Definition and classification. Vitamins are a heterogeneous group of organic compounds essential for the growth and maintenance of animal life. The majority of vitamins are not synthesized by the animal body or at a rate sufficient to meet the animals needs. 
Vitamins in Shrimp. Shrimp is a low-calorie food but rich in nutrients, such as vitamins. Shrimp are crustaceans that may be served hot or cold. This nutritious, protein-rich alternative to meat has, when raw, a translucent, firm yet tender, mild tasting flesh. Like all shellfish, shrimp contains some cholesterol but is very low in calories, total fat and saturated fat. Shrimp is rich in vitamins and minerals. The major vitamins in shrimp include vitamin D, vitamin B12 or cobalamin and vitamin B3 or niacin.
Weight loss benefits of eating shrimp. Loaded with protein, vitamin D, vitamin B3, and zinc, shrimp are an excellent, carbohydrate-free food for anyone determined to shed off pounds. Zinc supplementation of zinc deficient subjects has been shown to increase the levels of circulating leptin. 
Vitamin K Content. A 3-ounce serving of cooked shrimp contains 0.3 micrograms of vitamin K. This amount supplies only 0.33 percent of the Food and Nutrition Board's recommended daily allowance of vitamin K for an adult woman and just 0.25 percent of a man's required intake each day. Considerations. To maximize the amount of vitamin K you obtain, eat shrimp with a source of dietary fat. Vitamin K is a fat-soluble vitamin and needs to be consumed with fat in order for it to be absorbed in the intestines.
Vitamins for Red Blood Cell Health. Eat shrimp and you'll support healthy red blood cells as a result of its vitamin content. The vitamin A in shrimp controls red blood cell development; it activates genes that growing cells need to develop from stem cells into functional red blood cells. 
Answer by Nicklespin. Confidence votes 13. Vitamin DAccording to the World's Healthiest Foods website, 15 large shrimp, or a 4 oz. serving of steamed or boiled shrimp provides roughly 162 IU vitamin D, which meets 40 percent of the Recommended Daily Value or DV for this nutrient based on 400 IU. 