The Continental Giant is a very large breed of rabbit also known as the German Giant. They were originally bred for meat. It is recognised by BRC in two categories, coloured and white. They are said to have descended from the Flemish Giant. Some are said to be friendly with other animals. They were first documented in 1893. The longest rabbit is about 4 feet 4 inches and the heaviest is 53 lbs.
We have over 40 years of rabbit breeding experience and breed our Continental Giants to the BRC standard. We have recently re-stocked with new blood lines from the very best currently available in the UK. We exhibit our Continental Giant Rabbits at BRC shows. Welcome to Singleton Stud, British Rabbit Council (BRC) registered breeders of Continental Giant Rabbits & English Lops.
These beautiful giant rabbits are recognised by the BRC (British Rabbit Council) but not the ARBA, (American Rabbit Breeders Association). Also known as the German Giant rabbit and have the nickname 'Conti'. Diet: He should be fed a diet of high-quality hay and good pellets, as well as fibrous vegetables. Grooming: A continental giant must be groomed regularly to keep his coat in good condition. This is also a good opportuntiy to check for illness or injury as rabbits are very good at hiding anything that may be wrong.
continental giant rabbit. continental giant rabbit for sale she's loving & is a indoor rabbit she goes in the cat litter tray she is 9 weeks old & very friendly =) £60 ono please text 1st as I might be at work thankyouu =). continental giant rabbit. continental giant rabbit for sale she's loving & is a indoor rabbit she goes in the cat litter tray she is 9 weeks old & very friendly =) £60 ono please text 1st as I might be at work thankyouu 1  =). Date of birth DOB:18 Aug 2015. 2  Ready for rehome Rehome date:13 Oct 2015.
Sign-In to change alert settings. Tweet. Appearance: The Continental Giant is a very large rabbit that has a long body with a slightly arched back, well-rounded hindquarters, large thick ears (close to a fourth of the body length), and big bright eyes. The fur is dense and shiny with long guard hairs and a thick and soft undercoat. 
Average weight: 6kg. One of the largest types of domestic rabbit, the Continental Giant is a semi-arch breed. This means that the arch of its back begins at the shoulder and stretches all the way back to the base of the tail. Introduction. The Continental is one of the largest and oldest breeds of rabbit, with evidence suggesting that the breed may stretch as far back as the mid-16th Century. They can grow to be huge – more than 15lbs in some cases and should be looked upon much like a pet dog.
It is not a recognised breed by ARBA. They are said to have descended from the Flemish Giant. Some are said to be friendly with other animals. They were first documented in 1893. The longest rabbit is about 4 feet 4 inches and the heaviest is 53 lbs.
Early Origins. The Continental is one of the largest and oldest breeds of rabbit, with documentary records suggesting that they may have been around as far back as the mid-16th Century. Most Continentals are descended from the even more ancient Flemish Giant, a breed that originated in Ghent, Belgium. Diet: He should be fed a diet of high-quality hay and good pellets, as well as fibrous vegetables. Grooming: A continental giant must be groomed regularly to keep his coat in good condition. This is also a good opportuntiy to check for illness or injury as rabbits are very good at hiding anything that may be wrong.
£35. Continental giant rabbits, all so very friendly and used to being handled by children, all agouti colour, these rabbits do grow huge so need alot of space, they make fantastic house rabbits and are more docile than your everyday small rabbit.... 1 day ago | For Sale by Private Advertiser. 1 2 3 4 5 6. Birds.