Entomology (from Greek ἔντομος, moment, that which is cut in pieces or engraved/segmented, hence insect; and -λογία, -logia) is the scientific study of insects, a branch of zoology. Many entomologists specialize in a single order or even a family of insects, and a number of these subspecialties are given their own informal names, typically (but not always) derived from the scientific name of the group: 1  Coleopterology-beetles. 2  Dipterology-flies. 3  Hemipterology-true bugs.
An entomologist is a scientist who studies insects. Entomologists have many important jobs, such as the study of the classification, life cycle, distribution, physiology, behavior, ecology and population dynamics of insects. Entomologists also study urban pests, forest pests, agricultural pests and medical and veterinary pests and their control.
Forensic entomology is the application and study of insect and other arthropod biology to criminal matters. It also involves the application of the study of arthropods, including insects, arachnids, centipedes, millipedes, and crustaceans to criminal or legal cases. 
Entomologists are scientists that study insects, primarily. The word entomology is derived from the Greek meaning segmented, i.e. insects which are recognizable by their segmented shape. Entomologists are a type of zoologist, which are scientists that study animals. In addition, entomologists tend to specialize in a particular field or focus on the study of a particular type of insect, and focusing one's graduate studies and gaining hands-on experience in that field (via internships and/or postdoctoral studies) is also crucial to obtaining job opportunities.
Entomology is the study of insects, including their relationships with other animals, their environments, and human beings. Entomological research can also give us broader insights into ecology, evolution, and social behavior. Entomologists study insects, such as ants, bees, and beetles. They also study arthropods, a related group of species that includes spiders and scorpions. Most entomologists specialize in a particular type of insect. Insects outnumber all other forms of life combined, and perform functions vital to life on earth. Taxonomic entomologists work in the field looking for insects still unknown to science. Discovering new species helps us understand evolution and the role of insects, and can potentially lead to new medicines. Forensic entomologists help solve murder cases by studying the insects associated with dead bodies.
An entomologist is a zoologist who focuses specifically on the study of insects. Given that the insect world is vast and incredibly diverse, most people in this field focus on a specific order or family of insects. Careers in entomology are incredibly varied, ranging from forensic entomology to agricultural entomology. An entomologist who studies butterflies is called a lepidopterist. A coleopterist is an entomologist who studies beetles. Moths. Bees are social insects that are often studied by entomologists. An entomologist studies insects. Entomologists are zoologists with a specific focus on insects. A flying ant, which an entomologist might study. Charles Darwin, a famous entomologist
That makes them the smallest things having the largest impact on the world. The Scientists who study these insects are known as Entomologists, and it's their job to examine that impact, whether positive or negative.nnBees, for instance, help the planet by pollinating plants and making honey. 
In this video, Jonathan Koch, a graduate student at Utah State University, asks entomologists to explain what it is that they do. The interviews took place at Entomology 2011 in Reno, NV (http://www.entsoc.org/entomology2011). 
Entomologists study insects (and related animals), their habits and habitats. They also study the relationship and interactions between insects and humans. 