USES: This medication is used to help relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is similar to narcotic analgesics. It works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain.
Tramadol is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol extended-release tablets and capsules are only used by people who are expected to need medication to relieve pain around-the-clock. Tramadol is in a class of medications called opiate (narcotic) analgesics.
1 TRAMADOL (TRA ma dole) is a pain reliever. It is used to treat moderate to severe pain in adults. 2 This drug also comes in other forms, including Oral capsule, Orally disintegrating solid 3 This drug can cause serious side effects.
Tramadol, like other narcotics used for the treatment of pain, may be abused. Tramadol is not a nonsteroidal anti-iinflammatory drug (NSAID) and does not have the increased risk of stomach ulceration and internal bleeding that can occur with NSAIDs. The FDA approved tramadol in March 1995.
Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed.
Uses. This medication is used to help relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is similar to narcotic analgesics. It works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain.
Strong opioids (sometimes called opiates) are medicines used to treat severe pain. Tramadol is a type of strong opioid. It works on your nervous system and brain to reduce the way you feel pain. There are many different forms, strengths and brands of tramadol.
PRESCRIBED FOR: Tramadol is used in the management of moderate to moderately severe pain. Extended release tablets are used for moderate to moderately severe chronic pain in adults who require continuous treatment for an extended period. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 2/25/2015.