I’d say light skin men are close to the discrimination dark skin black people, mainly dark skin women, receive. Their in that evil vortex where skin color is suppose to be some measuring stick of masculinity and femininity too, but they still have light skin privilege. And there are no middle skin tones. Janet, one of the privileges a light skinned black woman has over a dark skinned black woman is that we don’t have the liberty of “limiting ourselves.” I hope you’ve seen the Buzz Feed (I think it’s Buzz Feed) video of race preference and dating.
Though one of the women has seen first-hand how some of her darker-skinned family members are treated, she says that she, too, struggled with discrimination. Being a light-skinned girl, you get called names, she tells Iyanla. While many understand colorism as the discrimination against darker-skinned African-Americans, two of Oprah's lighter-skinned audience members surprise Iyanla with the colorism discrimination they face as well.
So evolution has brilliantly arranged that light skin, in regions lacking sun, absorbs more UV for the production of Vitamin D than dark skin. This is because pigment grains are more plentiful and larger in black than in white skin, and they are also distributed differently in the layers of the skin. Skin colour has two balancing effects. Dark skin absorbs most light before it reaches the hereditary material. Africans appear dark, while we appear light. But in the area of ultraviolet radiation, the opposite is true.
Many of the darker-skinned Latinos are Amerindian (or a mix of Amerindian and European called Mestizo) or African to some degree by descent. The lighter-skinned Latinos tend to have little or no Amerindian or African blood and are mostly European by descent in contrast. There are also various ethnic populations throughout Latin America that have effected this as well. The reason some Latin Americans are darker while others are lighter-complected is because of the varying ethnic backgrounds that make up the Latin American population.
Humans with dark skin pigmentation have skin naturally rich in melanin (especially eumelanin), and have more melanosomes which provide a superior protection against the deleterious effects of ultraviolet radiation. This helps the body to retain its folate reserves and protects against damage to the DNA. People with relatively dark skin are referred to as brown, and those with very dark skin are often referred to as black, although this usage can be ambiguous in some countries where it is also used to specifically refer to different ethnic groups or populations.
This range of colors comes from the amount and type of a pigment called melanin found in the skin. There are two types of melanin--eumelanin and pheomelanin. In general, the more eumelanin in your skin, the darker your skin will be. People who make more pheomelanin than eumelanin tend to have lighter skin with freckles. Like many other traits, the amount and kind of pigment in your skin is controlled by genes. People who make lots of pheomelanin tend to have lighter skin, often because of freckling. Freckles happen when melanocytes clump together. Melanocytes are usually spread pretty evenly in the skin. So when freckles form, some spots of the skin have lots of melanocytes (freckles) and other spots have few or none.
None of us feel advantaged.. Iyanla finds this prejudice against lighter-skinned black women very interesting. Both the dark and the light are experiencing the same thing at different ends of the spectrum, she says before turning to the woman who had shared her story. While many understand colorism as the discrimination against darker-skinned African-Americans, two of Oprah's lighter-skinned audience members surprise Iyanla with the colorism discrimination they face as well.
Where the sun is strongest, skin colour has become darkest, while weak solar radiation gives light skin colour. Dark-skinned people need six times more sun than white-skinned people to get enough Vitamin D. On the other hand, they have less chance of developing skin cancer. Skin colour has two balancing effects. Dark skin absorbs most light before it reaches the hereditary material. Africans appear dark, while we appear light. But in the area of ultraviolet radiation, the opposite is true.
Light-skinned European women. Light skin is a naturally occurring human skin color, which has little eumelanin pigmentation and which has been adapted to environments of low UV radiation. Light skin is most commonly found amongst the native populations of Europe as measured through skin reflectance. 