Typical Earnings Nationwide. According to Bail Yes, a national bail company, most new bail bondsmen earn an average yearly salary of $25,000. After several years in the field, however, agent salaries increase significantly. Career Bliss states that from 2009 to 2014, the average American bail bondsman earned a yearly salary of $55,300. 
BailBonds101.com says that experienced bail bondsmen can earn from $50,000 to $150,000 annually. The CareerBliss website lists a number of bail bond companies and salaries of bondsmen within them. According to CareerBliss, the salary of an experienced bail bondsman at one Los Angeles, California, agency was $131,000 while bail bondsmen at a San Jose, California, agency earned about $61,000. New Bondsman Salaries. Bail bondsmen are licensed by their respective states' departments of insurance to underwrite bail bonds. According to the Bail Yes website, new bail bondsmen can expect to earn about $25,000 annually. Bail bondsman Greg Rynerson says that newly licensed bail bond agents working for a company make from $10 to $15 hourly. New bail bondsmen tend to work for established bail companies and they're mostly paid from commissions based on the number of clients they bring to their companies
Bail Bond Agent Salary Information. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The bail bond agent salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional bail bond agent salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Average Bail Bond Agent Salaries. The average salary for bail bond agent jobs is $34,000. Average bail bond agent salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term bail bond agent anywhere in the job listing. The bail bond agent salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional bail bond agent salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
Bounty Hunter Salaries. There are about 15,500 bail agents (bail bondsmen) in the United States, according to the Professional Bail Agents of the United States. These numbers help highlight the career potential for those interested in becoming a bounty hunter. The majority of bail bond companies do not pay their bounty hunters a salary; instead, they earn a percentage of the bond, which is usually between 10 and 20 percent.
It is not uncommon for a bail bondsman to begin their careers with salaries in the $20,000 to $40,000 range, but for the truly talented financial minds in this industry, this can multiply into salaries far exceeding $100,000 per year. Some states may limit the fees a bail bondsman may charge to only ten percent of the bond amount, while others allow bondsmen fees as high 20 percent. This can contribute to some variation the annual salary for bail bondsman: 1  New York: $38,891-$58,336. 2  Florida: $35,682-$53,523
Most entry level people should expect $10-$15 per hour as a bail bond agent salary. As a person gets more knowledge and understanding of the business they can expect a salary up to $50,000 per year. Some bail bond salary’s can range up to $150,000 per year. As an owner / operator of your own bail bond company you might expect up to several hundred thousand dollars per year. Many companies’s pay commission and others are hourly and others are salary. Bail Bondsman Training. Bail bonds salaries vary between geographic areas and what job a person is doing for the company. There are some very successful bail bondsmen that make a great salary.