The most common food intolerance is lactose intolerance. Lactose intolerance affects up to 10% of adults, and is associated with symptoms of flatulence (gas), abdominal distention (bloating), and diarrhea after consuming cow's milk. Most scientists agree that food allergies are more common in infants than in adults with 6 to 8% of infants and children experiencing food allergies, however, food intolerance is more prevalent in adults.
Overview. More than 50 million Americans have an allergy of some kind. Food allergies are estimated to affect 4 to 6 percent of children and 4 percent of adults, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Food allergy symptoms are most common in babies and children, but they can appear at any age. You can even develop an allergy to foods you have eaten for years with no problems
Food intolerances are much more common. In fact, nearly everyone at one time has had an unpleasant reaction to something they ate. Some people have specific food intolerances. Lactose intolerance, the most common specific food intolerance, affects about 10 percent of Americans. A food allergy is an immune system response. It is caused when the body mistakes an ingredient in food — usually a protein — as harmful and creates a defense system (antibodies) to fight it. An allergic reaction occurs when the antibodies are battling an invading food protein.
The most common food intolerance is lactose intolerance. It happens when people can’t digest lactose, a sugar found in milk and dairy. Another kind of intolerance is being sensitive to sulfites or other food additives. 
Physical reactions to certain foods are common, but most are caused by a food intolerance rather than a food allergy. A food intolerance can cause some of the same signs and symptoms as a food allergy, so people often confuse the two. 
Food intolerance (or non-allergic food hypersensitivity) is a detrimental reaction, often delayed, to a food, beverage, food additive, or compound found in foods that produces symptoms in one or more body organs and systems, but generally refers to reactions other than food allergy. 
A food allergy is when the body's immune system reacts unusually to specific foods. Allergic reactions are often mild, but they can sometimes be very serious. In young children, common food allergies include milk and eggs. In adults, allergies to fruit and vegetables are more common. Nut allergies, including peanuts, are relatively common in both school-age children and adults. Symptoms of a food allergy can affect different areas of the body at the same time. Some common symptoms include: 1  an itchy sensation inside the mouth, throat or ears. 2  a raised itchy red rash (known as urticaria or hives). 3  swelling of the face, around the eyes, lips, tongue and roof of the mouth (known as angioedema). It is these chemicals that cause the symptoms of an allergic reaction. Almost any food can cause an allergic reaction, but there are certain foods that are responsible for most food allergies. In children, the foods that most commonly cause an allergic reaction are: 1  milk. 2  eggs.
Common Food Intolerances. It should never be underestimated how big an impact food intolerance has on the lives of sufferers. From sufferering with migraines from adolescence, having joint problems in mid-life to visiting the toilet several times a day, these are just some of the problems caused by food intolerance. 
The most common symptoms for food allergies include vomiting, diarrhea, blood in stools, eczema, hives, skin rashes, wheezing and a runny nose. Symptoms can vary depending upon a number of variables including age, the type of allergen (antigen), and the amount of food consumed. Most scientists agree that food allergies are more common in infants than in adults with 6 to 8% of infants and children experiencing food allergies, however, food intolerance is more prevalent in adults.