Why it's a risk: The biggest concern that DMDM Hydantoin carries is that it can release or be contaminated with the carcinogen formaldehyde. It actually works as a preservative by releasing formaldehyde. It is also a strong skin, eye, and lung irritant.
DMDM Hydantoin is a formaldehyde-donor preservative, that prevents or retards microbial growth, thereby protecting cosmetics and personal care products from spoilage. Follow this link for more information about how preservatives protect cosmetics and personal care products.
DMDM hydantoin is an antimicrobial formaldehyde releaser preservative with the trade name Glydant. DMDM hydantoin is an organic compound belonging to a class of compounds known as hydantoins. It is used in the cosmetics industry and found in products like shampoos, hair conditioners, hair gels, Rite Aid Liquid Lubricant, and skin care products.
Functions: DMDM Hydantoin is a controversial ingredient because of its formaldehyde properties. Although the releasing of formaldehyde is the process that makes the environment less favorable for microorganisms (source), this process is what makes it an effective cleanser and preservative in many beauty products.
WHAT IS IT? DMDM Hydantoin is a white, crystalline solid used in the formulation of shampoos, hair conditioners, skin care products, moisturizers, bath products and makeup bases and foundations. DMDM Hydantoin is a formaldehyde-releasing preservative, which prevents personal care products from spoilage.
read more. About DMDM HYDANTOIN (FORMALDEHYDE RELEASER) : DMDM hydantoin is an antimicrobial formaldehyde releaser preservative. People exposed to such formaldehyde-releasing ingredients may develop a formaldehyde allergy or an allergy to the ingredient itself and its decomposition products.
People exposed to such formaldehyde-releasing ingredients may develop a formaldehyde allergy or an allergy to the ingredient itse ... read more. About DMDM HYDANTOIN (FORMALDEHYDE RELEASER) : DMDM hydantoin is an antimicrobial formaldehyde releaser preservative.
DMDM Hydantoin is a formaldehyde donor containing up to 2% of the free aldehyde in equilibrium with the hydantoin. In cosmetics and personal care products, it functions as a preservative.
DMDM Hydantoin is a white, crystalline solid. In cosmetics and personal care products, DMDM Hydantoin is used in the formulation of shampoos, hair conditioners, skin care products, moisturizers, bath products, and makeup bases and foundations.