Remove from heat and pour over turkey. Bake turkey drumsticks, covered, in a preheated 325 degree F oven for 2 to 2 1/2 hours, or until very tender. (If cooking turkey drumsticks that are a bit smaller, check the internal temperature a bit earlier-- you don't want them to overcook).
1 Place the drumsticks in a baking pan. 2  Let the drumsticks bake for 45 minutes, till they are done. 3  Then increase the temperature to 500º F and let it roast the drumsticks, till they are deep brown in color. 4  Do remember to turn them, so that they have an even brown color.
Bake the turkey drumsticks. Place them in the preheated oven for 45 minutes. Turn them over and cook for another 45 minutes. Insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the meat. They are ready when the internal temperature reaches 180ºF/82ºC. 1  To ensure that the turkey stays juicy, you can baste it every 20 minutes with a turkey baster or spoon.
Oven: Preheat oven to 350ºF. Brush Turkey Drumsticks with vegetable oil. Place in pan, and cover. Bake 1 to 1½ hrs. Uncover and bake another ½ hr., or until tender. Cook until temperature reaches 165°F on a meat thermometer not touching bone. Skillet: Brown Turkey Drumsticks in lightly oiled skillet.
Roast on a baking sheet in the oven for 20 minutes, then reduce the heat to 300 and roast for another 15 minutes, or until turkey is cooked through. (Update: larger legs will require longer cooking time.). Remove them from oven and wrap the bottom of the legs with aluminum foil for serving.
Grill the turkey legs for approximately five to 10 minutes, then uncover the grill and turn the legs over. Replace the grill cover and continue grilling and flipping the turkey legs every five to 10 minutes until they are golden brown. Turkey legs generally require 20 to 30 minutes of total grilling time.
Sprinkle the turkey legs with salt and pepper. Put in the oven and bake for 1 1/2 hours, or until done. You know when the turkey legs are done when the meat thermometer put in the thickest part of the leg registers 165F, and also when the juices run clear (not pink) when the thickest part of the leg is cut.