Landscape Attributes: Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass is an herbaceous ornamental grass with a shapely form and gracefully arching stems. It brings an extremely fine and delicate texture to the garden composition and should be used to full effect. Ornamental Features: Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass features beautiful plumes of creamy white flowers rising above the foliage in mid summer, which are most effective when planted in groupings. It's grassy leaves are green in color with prominent dark red tips.
Warm-season grasses need warm soil to begin their growth, so Burgundy Bunny won't start growing until mid to late spring or even early summer. This miniature fountain grass will turn shades of brown as the weather turns colder. Burgundy Bunny forms a petite habit with narrow green leaves with a hint of red, and produces small tufted cream flower plumes in late summer. You will be delighted with its blazing red color in the fall! Red Fall Color! 1  PLANT FACTS. 2  REVIEWS. 3  SHIPPING INFORMATION. 4  PLANT & CONTAINER SIZES.
Imagine a 4 foot wide patch of grass with long narrow leaves reaching 3 feet into the sky and gently swaying in the summer breeze. Now envision those leaves a deep burgundy color. That alone would be a remarkable plant for your yard, but next comes the bloom. In summer, tall stems will soar up above the foliage, reaching 5 feet in height and tipped with foot-long, fluffy plumes of matching burgundy. 
Plant Characteristics: Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass will grow to be about 14 inches tall at maturity, with a spread of 16 inches. It grows at a medium rate, and under ideal conditions can be expected to live for approximately 10 years. This ornamental grass should only be grown in full sunlight. Ornamental Features: Burgundy Bunny Dwarf Fountain Grass features beautiful plumes of creamy white flowers rising above the foliage in mid summer, which are most effective when planted in groupings. It's grassy leaves are green in color with prominent dark red tips.
Giant Fountain Grass Giant Fountain Grass (Pennisetum orientale 'Tall Tails') is a vigorous plant that grows to 5-1/2 feet tall and 3 feet wide that produces beautiful tails of white with a touch of soft pink in June through October. Its vaselike shape makes it ideal in the landscape or in the mixed garden. It likes sun or partial shade and grows 3-6 feet tall with a spread of 3-4 feet. A great specimen plant. 'Cloud Nine' Switch Grass 'Cloud Nine' Switch Grass (Panicum virgatum 'Cloud Nine') grows as tall as 8 feet and 3 feet wide, with an elegant, narrow, vaselike shape and blue-green foliage.
PENNISETUM alopecuroides. 'BURGUNDY BUNNY'. Foliage is blue, turning to shades of purple in autumn. Flowers late summer. Height is 20-32 tall. Schizachyrium scoparium. 'The Blues'. Graceful, fine textured grass with green leaves. and bearded green plumes that turn golden. Grows 18-24 ht. This great accent grass is slow growing and gets to be about 6-8 tall and about 12 wide. It likes partial to full sun and blooms from early to late summer with small light pink flowers.
'Little Bunny' Fountain Grass Is it possible to not fall in love with 'Little Bunny' Fountain Grass? This smallest dwarf fountain grass, Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Little Bunny' grows only 10-18 inches tall and 18-24 inches wide, perfect for rock gardens or edgings. The unique whitish-green tufts of flowers appear summer to fall and are lovely in fresh or dried arrangements. It likes sun or partial shade and grows 3-6 feet tall with a spread of 3-4 feet. A great specimen plant. 'Cloud Nine' Switch Grass 'Cloud Nine' Switch Grass (Panicum virgatum 'Cloud Nine') grows as tall as 8 feet and 3 feet wide, with an elegant, narrow, vaselike shape and blue-green foliage.
This yard plant adds a spectacular tropical look to any landscape when the Giant Burgundy Fountain Grass is planted in clumps of 3 or more. If left unattended the Giant Burgundy Fountain Grass can grow large enough to produce a privacy screen and will have beautiful flowers that will reach 12 inches tall. Alternative Views: The Burgundy Fountain Grass plant has brilliant wine-red leaves will produce colorful burgundy plumes in October that are great in the landscape or for Winter drying for flower arrangements. The Burgundy Fountain Grass plant's wide burgundy leaves are beautiful.
Burgundy Bunny Grass. Enter Zip Code for estimated delivery: Pennisetum Burgundy Bunny, Pennisetum alopecuroides 'Burgundy Bunny', is a warm season grass, so where temperatures get colder than -10 degrees F, this plant is considered an annual. Burgundy Bunny forms a petite habit with narrow green leaves with a hint of red, and produces small tufted cream flower plumes in late summer. You will be delighted with its blazing red color in the fall! Red Fall Color! 1  PLANT FACTS. 2  REVIEWS. 3  SHIPPING INFORMATION. 4  PLANT & CONTAINER SIZES.