A columbarium is a permanent structure made up of spaces where family members can place urns containing the ashes (or cremains) of cremated loved ones. The word 'columbarium' is derived from the Latin term columba, meaning dwelling place of a dove.. 
A columbarium is a place for the respectful and usually public storage of cinerary urns. The term comes from the Latin columba and originally referred to compartmentalized housing for doves and pigeons called a dovecote. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: columbarium (Noun). a dovecote; one of the pigeonholes in a dovecote. columbarium (Noun). a large, sometimes architecturally impressive building for housing a large colony of pigeons, particularly those of ancien regime France.
A columbarium is a place for the respectful and usually public storage of cinerary urns (i.e., urns holding a deceased’s cremated remains). The term comes from the Latin columba (dove) and originally referred to compartmentalized housing for doves and pigeons called a dovecote. The Columbarium of Pomponius Hylas is a particularly fine ancient Roman example, rich in frescoes, decorations and precious mosaics. Today's columbaria can be either free standing units, or part of a mausoleum or another building.
Columbarium Main Street United Methodist Church What is a Columbarium? The word Columbarium is derived from the Latin term Columba, meaning dovecote or dwelling place of a dove.. In Christian tradition, the dove, of course, has long symbolized the embodiment of the Holy Spirit. It is a place of contempla-tion, remembrance and prayer.
The word columbarium is derived from the Latin word columba meaning “dovecote.” A “dovecote” is a compartmented structure that is a home to doves; a symbol we use to represent God’s spirit and peace. In today’s modern adaptation, a columbarium is a place for the respectful and sacred storage of cremated remains. The Columbarium at Custer Road There seems to be no more fitting place as the final resting place of a Christian than at his or her church. The concept of residing on consecrated church property is an old one, dating from the very beginnings of Christianity and is sound for both theological and practical reasons.
Roman columbaria were often built partly or completely underground. The Columbarium of Pomponius Hylas is a particularly fine ancient Roman example, rich in frescoes, decorations and precious mosaics. Today's columbaria can be either free standing units, or part of a mausoleum or another building.
The word columbarium is used to describe a place that has been designated for the inurnment of the ashes of those who have been cremated. It is similar to a mausoleum, except it houses urns instead of caskets. If you or a loved one has decided to be cremated, it is important to look into the option of keeping the ashes inside of a columbarium. These remarkable structures are a wonderful way to preserve the memory and the essence of a person after they have passed on.
The noun COLUMBARIUM has 3 senses: 1. a birdhouse for pigeons. 2. a niche for a funeral urn containing the ashes of the cremated dead. 3. a sepulchral vault or other structure having recesses in the walls to receive cinerary urns. Familiarity information: COLUMBARIUM used as a noun is uncommon. Dictionary entry details.
A columbarium (dovecote) is taken from the Latin word “Columba” meaning “dove”. It is used to refer to a collection of niches designed to house urns containing cremated human remains: a place where the ashes of the departed may rest in peace and dignity within the shadow of the church. Reviving a Honored Tradition. 
The word columbarium is derived from the Latin columbary (dwelling place of a dove). Christians believe the dove is a symbol of the Holy Spirit. 