Hebrew Meaning: The name Amaris is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Amaris is: Given by God. American Meaning: The name Amaris is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Amaris is: Given by God. 
Meaning of the name Amari, analysis of the name Amari and so much more… What does Amari mean and its numerology, definition, origin, popularity and very interesting information. Please use the menu below. Quick Menu. 1  Information About The Name Amari. 2  Prononciation Of Amari. 3  The Meaning Of The Name Amari. 
As a baby girl name, Amari is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 458 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . In 2009, the name Amari fell in popularity and moved down the USA Top 1000 charts in Year 2009, by 96 places. The name Amari has the following meaning: It means One who will be forever beautiful in Greek. This name can be given to both baby boys and girls. It is a unisex name. Origins. The name Amari is very likely a(n) Greek variant of the name Amara. See other suggested Greek baby names.
Amari is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-ma-ri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 524 in baby name popularity for girls with 585 occurrences. It ranked 340 in popular baby names for boys with 970 occurrences. View the Amari Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Amari has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Amari to other names.
What does Amari mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Amari is of Greek origin. The meaning of Amari is eternally lovely. It is also of African origin, where its meaning is strong. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 524 in baby name popularity for girls with 585 occurrences. It ranked 340 in popular baby names for boys with 970 occurrences. View the Amari Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Amari has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Amari to other names.
MeaningGod has promised. The Biblical baby name Amariah is Hebrew in origin and it's meaning is God (Yahweh) has promised. Amariah is pronounced am-ar-yaw'. Amariah is a very popular name in the Old Testament. There are seven men named Amariah in the Bible. Notable among the Amariahs include a descendant of Aaron. He was a high priest. 
More About African Name: Amari. I think the name Amari is a beautiful name my 3 year old son name is Amari, It also meant beauty. I named my daughter Amari (4yrs now) and I read it meant Eternal Life/Immortal. According to American origin it means a miracle from god or special gift.
It is used mainly in English. African-Yoruban origin: It is derived literally from the word amari with the meaning 'strength'. In addition, Amari is a form of the English Amara. Forms of Amari include the names Amare, Amaree, Amarie, and Amarri. Amari is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name has been rising in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only irregular use.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Amari for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Amari is a unisex name, used as a boy name and a girl name. If you consider naming your baby Amari we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
[ 3 syll. a-ma-ri, am-ari ] The baby boy name Amari is sometimes used as a girl name. It is pronounced as aa-M AA-R-iy- †. Amari is used chiefly in the English language, and it is derived from Sanskrit and African-Yoruban origins. African-Yoruban origin: It is derived literally from the word 'amari' which means strength. In addition, Amari is a variant of the name Amar (Arabic, English, and Indian). Amarea, Amaree, Amarey, Amarie, Amarri, and Amary are variants of Amari. Amari is fairly popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as fairly trendy. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1990s; before that, it was of irregular use only. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.053% of baby boys being given the name Amari. Its ranking then was #309