Averages for Cape Town in May. May is one of the coolest and wettest months of the year in Cape Town, South Africa. If you visit at this time, you can expect temperatures of up to 21 ° C during the day, dropping down to a chilly 10 ° C after sunset. 
This report describes the typical weather at the Cape Town International Airport (Cape Town, South Africa) weather station over the course of an average year. It is based on the historical records from 1994 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. The warm season lasts from December 9 to March 27 with an average daily high temperature above 77A°77â. F the hottest day of the year Is february, 15 with an average high OF°80a 80â f and LOW°Of. 62a 62â f the cold Season lasts from May 26 to september 14 with an average daily HIGH°Temperature. below 66a 66â f
Cape Town: Annual Weather Averages. February is the hottest month in Cape Town with an average temperature of 23°C (73°F) and the coldest is June at 13°C (55°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 11 in December. The wettest month is July with an average of 100mm of rain. The best month to swim in the sea is in February when the average sea temperature is 21°C (70°F).
Cape Town has a mediterranean climate with dry warm summers and mild winters. The area within 25 mi of this station is covered by oceans and seas (40%), grasslands (33%), croplands (17%), built-up areas (6%), and forests (5%). This report describes the typical weather at the Cape Town International Airport (Cape Town, South Africa) weather station over the course of an average October. It is based on the historical records from 1994 to 2012.
Average Temperatures in Cape Town, South Africa. 1  The average temperature in Cape Town, South Africa is very mild at 16.6 degrees Celsius (61.9 degrees Fahrenheit). Cape Town Average Temperatures Chart. The average temperature charts use a fixed scale so that you can easily compare temperatures between two or more locations. Simply line up the charts in separate tabs in your browser and toggle between tabs to visualise the differences.
Average temperatures While the average annual temperature in Cape Town is 17 degrees, the average high temperature is a comfortable 21 degrees. Cool fact: more than fifty percent (189 days a year) of the time you will experience temperatures of over 21 degrees in Cape Town. An insight into the temperatures and climate of Cape Town and Surrounds. An insight into the temperatures and climate of Cape Town and Surrounds. Cape Town has a Mediterranean-style climate: wet and cool winters, dry and warm summers. The annual average temperature in Cape Town is a delightful 17 degrees. Cape Town lies on the 34th latitude South, together with Casablanca, Los Angeles and Sydney. However, as in the city of Cape Town itself, the weather on the Cape Peninsula is quite unique
1 The average temperature in Cape Town, South Africa is very mild at 16.6 degrees Celsius (61.9 degrees Fahrenheit). 2  Mean monthly temperatures have a range of 9 C (16.2 F) which is a very low range. Cape Town Average Temperatures Chart. The average temperature charts use a fixed scale so that you can easily compare temperatures between two or more locations. Simply line up the charts in separate tabs in your browser and toggle between tabs to visualise the differences.
1 Mean monthly temperatures have a range of 9 C (16.2 F) which is a very low range. 2  The variation/ range of diurnal average temperatures is 10.2 C (18.3 F). 3  The warmest month (January) is warm having a mean temperature of 21 degrees Celsius (69.8 degrees Fahrenheit). Cape Town Average Temperatures Chart. The average temperature charts use a fixed scale so that you can easily compare temperatures between two or more locations. Simply line up the charts in separate tabs in your browser and toggle between tabs to visualise the differences.
Temperature. Cape Town has essentially two distinct seasons. The summer months of November, December, January, February and March average temperatures from 55 to 79 degrees F (13 to 26 degrees C). Mediterranean climates tend to have a consistent breeze. Cape Town's average wind speed is 12.7 mph (20.4 km/h). Most of the year cool winds come from the ocean and offers some relief from the summer heat and adds to the comfort the rest of the year.