What is a laser peripheral iridotomy? A laser peripheral iridotomy is a treatment used to treat angle closure. If you have healthy eyes, the fluid in your eye (aqeous humour) flows through your pupil into the front of your eye, and drains away through drainage channels called the trabecular meshwork. 1 of 4 Having a laser peripheral iridotomy The aim of this information sheet is to answer some of the questions you may have about having a laser peripheral iridotomy. It explains the benefits, risks and alternatives of the procedure as well as what you can expect when you come to hospital.
Why It Is Done. Laser iridotomy is mainly used to: 1  Treat closed-angle glaucoma after the pressure in the affected eye has been reduced with medicine or when medicines fail. 2  Prevent closed-angle glaucoma in people who have narrow drainage angles and those people who have had closed-angle glaucoma in their other eye. Laser Iridotomy for Glaucoma. Guide. Laser iridotomy uses a very focused beam of light to create a hole on the outer edge, or rim, of the iris, the colored part of the eye. This opening allows fluid (aqueous humor) to flow between the anterior chamber, the front part of the eye, and the area behind the iris, the posterior chamber
Background. Laser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) is the preferred procedure for treating angle-closure glaucoma caused by relative or absolute pupillary block. LPI eliminates pupillary block by allowing the aqueous to pass directly from the posterior chamber into the anterior chamber, bypassing the pupil. The iridotomy site should be in the peripheral third of the iris just anterior to the arcus. A crypt or a thinned area of the iris is recommended. Most ophthalmologists place the iridotomy between 11 o’clock and 1 o’clock, where it is superiorly covered by the lids.
Laser peripheral iridotomy is generally recommended for patients with narrow angles, narrow angle glaucoma, or acute angle closure glaucoma. LPI attempts to open a narrow angle. Since the angle is the part of the eye that drains fluid FROM the eye, narrowing of the angle can put the eye at risk for an acute attack of angle closure glaucoma. During the LPI, a laser is used to make a small opening in the peripheral iris (the colored part of the eye).
Yag Iridotomy-Laser Peripheral Iridotomy. Laser peripheral iridotomy is a treatment for narrow angle glaucoma. The surgeon uses an Nd:YAG laser to create a small hole in the peripheral iris. This improves the circulation of fluid inside the eye and widens the anterior chamber angle. Sometimes this lowers the intraocular pressure, but that is not the primary goal of laser peripheral iridotomy. The primary goal of the procedure is to lessens the risk of acute angle-closure glaucoma. A small hole is visib
In angle-closure glaucoma or in patients at risk for this condition, laser iridotomy is the preferred method of treatment. In treating glaucoma with lasers, it is important to understand what type of glaucoma you may have. 
Laser peripheral iridotomy (LPI) is the preferred procedure for treating angle-closure glaucoma caused by relative or absolute pupillary block. The iridotomy site should be in the peripheral third of the iris just anterior to the arcus. A crypt or a thinned area of the iris is recommended. Most ophthalmologists place the iridotomy between 11 o’clock and 1 o’clock, where it is superiorly covered by the lids.
For most types of angle closure, or narrow angle glaucoma, laser iridotomy is the procedure of choice. Changes in intraocular pressure (IOP) can alter the name of the condition when the IOP in the eye becomes elevated above 22 mm/Hg as a result of an angle closure. The purpose of a laser iridotomy is to allow an equalization of pressure between the anterior (front) and posterior (back) chambers of the eye by making a hole in the superior peripheral iris.
Definition. Laser iridotomy is a surgical procedure that is performed on the eye to treat angle closure glaucoma, a condition of increased pressure in the front chamber (anterior chamber) that is caused by sudden (acute) or slowly progressive (chronic) blockage of the normal circulation of fluid within the eye. The purpose of a laser iridotomy is to allow an equalization of pressure between the anterior (front) and posterior (back) chambers of the eye by making a hole in the superior peripheral iris.