1 In Excel 2003, click the Data menu and select List. 2  In Excel 2007, 2010, and 2013 select either Table on the Insert menu ribbon or Format as Table in the Styles group on the Home menu ribbon. ( 3 The former option applies Excel's default table style, while the other lets you choose a style when you create the table. Select Insert from the popup menu. Choose one of the Insert submenu options. 1  Select Insert Columns to the Left or Insert Columns to the Right to insert a new column in the table. 2  Select Insert Rows Above or Insert Rows Below to insert a new row
Insert or delete cells, rows, and columns. You can insert blank cells above or to the left of the active cell on a worksheet. When you insert blank cells, Excel shifts other cells in the same column down or cells in the same row to the right to accommodate the new cells. Tip To cancel a selection of cells, click any cell on the worksheet. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click the arrow next to Insert, and then click Insert Sheet Columns. Tip You can also right-click the selected cells and then click Insert.
Format data as a table. On the worksheet, select a range of empty cells or cells that contain the data that you want to quickly format as a table. On the Home tab, in the Styles group, click Format as Table. Note When you use Format as Table, Office Excel automatically inserts a table. Under Light, Medium, or Dark, click the table style that you want to use. Note Custom table styles are available under Custom after you create one or more of them.
1 On the Data menu, click Table. 2  Note In Excel 2007, click the Data tab, click What-If Analysis, and then click Data Table. 3  In the Row Input Cell box, type A15. 4  In the Column Input Cell box, type A14. 5  Click OK. 6  Right-click cell B14, and then click Format Cells. 7  Click the Number tab. 
Insert rows on a worksheet. Do one of the following: To insert a single row, select either the whole row or a cell in the row above which you want to insert the new row. For example, to insert a new row above row 5, click a cell in row 5. To insert multiple rows, select the rows above which you want to insert rows. Select the same number of rows as you want to insert. Tip To cancel a selection of cells, click any cell on the worksheet. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click the arrow next to Insert, and then click Insert Sheet Columns. Tip You can also right-click the selected cells and then click Insert.
1 On the Data menu, click Table. 2  In the Column Input Cell box, type B1. 3  Because this is a one input table, leave the Row Input Cell box blank. 4  Select cell C2. 5  On the Format menu, click Cells. 6  Click the Number tab. 7  In the Category list, click Custom. 8  In the Type box, type #+2 (with the quotation marks). 9  Click OK. 1 On the Data menu, click Table. 2  In the Row Input Cell box, type A10. 3  Because this is a one-input table, leave the Column Input Cell box blank. 4  Select cell B10
2. Column heading. You can also select cells in a row or column by selecting the first cell and then pressing CTRL+SHIFT+ARROW key (RIGHT ARROW or LEFT ARROW for rows, UP ARROW or DOWN ARROW for columns). Note If the row or column contains data, CTRL+SHIFT+ARROW key selects the row or column to the last used cell. Tip To cancel a selection of cells, click any cell on the worksheet. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click the arrow next to Insert, and then click Insert Sheet Columns. Tip You can also right-click the selected cells and then click Insert.
Insert the table. To start the table creation process, you will need to insert a table into your spreadsheet. 1  In Excel 2003, click the Data menu and select List. 2  In Excel 2007, 2010, and 2013 select either Table on the Insert menu ribbon or Format as Table in the Styles group on the Home menu ribbon. Select Insert from the popup menu. Choose one of the Insert submenu options. 1  Select Insert Columns to the Left or Insert Columns to the Right to insert a new column in the table. 2  Select Insert Rows Above or Insert Rows Below to insert a new row
Insert a table. On a worksheet, select the range of cells that you want to include in the table. The cells can be empty or can contain data. On the Insert tab, in the Tables group, click Table. Keyboard shortcut You can also press CTRL+L or CTRL+T. On the Home tab, in the Styles group, click Format as Table. Note When you use Format as Table, Office Excel automatically inserts a table. Under Light, Medium, or Dark, click the table style that you want to use. Note Custom table styles are available under Custom after you create one or more of them.
Insert a Table. To insert a table, execute the following steps. 1. Click any single cell inside the data set. 2. On the Insert tab, click Table. 3. Excel automatically selects the data for you. Check 'My table has headers' and click on OK. Result. Excel creates a nicely formatted table for you.