The most daunting landform in both East Africa and the entirety of Africa is Mt. Kilimanjaro. Kilimanjaro is actually comprised of three volcanic peaks, the highest of which exceeds 19,000 ft.
Mount Kilimanjaro is the highest peak in Africa at 19,340 feet. Other major peaks in East Africa include Mount Kenya (17,058 feet) and Rwenzori Range (6,761 feet). The Ethiopian Highlands is a region of plateaus and mountains that cover parts of Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Somalia.
It is sometimes called the Roof of Africa for its height and large area. Great Rift Valley: A dramatic depression on the earth's surface, approximately 4,000 miles (6,400 km) in length, extends from the Red Sea area near Jordan in the Middle East, south to the African country of Mozambique.
The Great Rift Valley also helped to create other major landforms such as Lake Victoria, Lake Tangynika, and Victoria Falls which is a part of the Zambezi River. Another interesting feature of East Africa is the elevation. In the Ethiopian Highlands, elevations can reach 13,000 feet.
Dividing these highlands is the Great Rift Valley. In East Africa, where it forms two arms (eastern and western), the Great Rift Valley has a series of lakes on its floor and all around it.
Lakes and Rivers. Located in and around the Great Rift Valley are several major lakes. Lake Victoria is the largest in surface area, the second-largest lake on Earth and the source of the Nile River. Lake Tanganyika is notable for its depth. At 4,823 feet is the second-deepest lake on Earth.
Landforms. The Great Rift Valley is like a jagged scar on the face of Africa. It extends from South Africa, along the eastern region, and up to the Arabian Peninsula. The Great Rift Valley is a long line of escarpments that have been created by two tectonic plates drifting apart.
The Great Rift Valley is like a jagged scar on the face of Africa. It extends from South Africa, along the eastern region, and up to the Arabian Peninsula. The Great Rift Valley is a long line of escarpments that have been created by two tectonic plates drifting apart.
The Great Rift Valley is a series of rifts and valleys running from north to south across the whole of East Africa. The African continent is gradually splitting in two along these fault lines.