The Treaty of Versailles was the agreement negotiated during the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 that ended World War I and imposed disarmament, reparations, and territorial changes on the defeated Germany. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on June 28, 1919, in the Hall of Mirrors of the Palace of Versailles. The terms dictated to Germany included a war guilt clause, in which Germany accepted responsibility as the aggressor in the war. Based on this clause, the Allies imposed reparations for war damage.
The territorial changes of Germany include all changes in the borders and territory of Germany from its formation in 1871 to the present. Modern Germany was formed in 1871 when Otto von Bismarck unified most of the German states (with the notable exception of Austria) into the German Empire. The period of Nazi rule from the 1930s through the end of the Second World War brought significant territorial losses for the country. Nazi Germany initially expanded the country's territory dramatically and conquered most of Europe, though not all areas were added to Germany proper.
Paris Peace Conference: the aims of Clemenceau, Lloyd George and Woodrow Wilson the Fourteen Points. Main terms of The Treaty of Versailles: territorial changes, military restrictions, war-guilt and reparations. The strengths and weaknesses of the Treaty of Versailles: why Germany objected to it Diktat. 
The Impact of the Treaty of Versailles. The Treaty of Versailles was the Peace Settlement between the Allies and Germany at the end of the First World War. The German authorities had little choice but to accept the terms of the Treaty presented by 'the Big Three'. This section looks at some of the implications of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. The financial impact of the Treaty. The Treaty of Versailles blamed Germany for the First World War. As a result of this Germany was also held accountable for the cost of the war and the Treaty dictated that compensation would have to be paid to the Allies.
It ended the state of war between Germany and the Allied Powers. It was signed on 28 June 1919, exactly five years after the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand. The other Central Powers on the German side of World War I were dealt with in separate treaties. Although the armistice, signed on 11 November 1918, ended the actual fighting, it took six months of negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference to conclude the peace treaty. The treaty was registered by the Secretariat of the League of Nations on 21 October 1919, and was printed in The League of Nations Treaty Series. Russia was also excluded because it had negotiated a separate peace (the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk) with Germany in 1918. The terms of this treaty awarded Germany a large proportion of Russia's land and resources.
The treaty of Versailles finalized all the territorial changes. Almost all of what Germany had taken was given back. In the end Germany also lost its entire colonial empire. Germany had to make large financial reparations for damage inflicted on the Allied powers. Disarmament, Territorial Changes, and Reparations. Germany was forced to disband much of their military. The treaty made required Germany to rescind their compulsory military service and reduce it's army to 100 000. The Rhine River was for the most part demilitarized, and management of war materials was stopped
Most of the terms of the Treaty of Versailles were set at the Paris Peace Conference, which was dominated by (l-r) Lloyd George of Great Britain, Vittorio Orlando of Italy, Georges Clemenceau of France, and Woodrow Wilson of the United States. The Treaty of Versailles was signed on June 28, 1919, in the Hall of Mirrors of the Palace of Versailles. The terms dictated to Germany included a war guilt clause, in which Germany accepted responsibility as the aggressor in the war. Based on this clause, the Allies imposed reparations for war damage.
Treaty of Versailles. When World War I ended there was still much confusion over territorial changes and disarmament. This treaty marked the end of, The war to end all wars . Disarmament, Territorial Changes, and Reparations. Germany was forced to disband much of their military. The treaty made required Germany to rescind their compulsory military service and reduce it's army to 100 000. The Rhine River was for the most part demilitarized, and management of war materials was stopped