A circuit breaker is an automatically operated electrical switch designed to protect an electrical circuit from damage caused by overload or short circuit. Its basic function is to detect a fault condition and interrupt current flow. Circuit breakers are usually able to terminate all current very quickly: typically the arc is extinguished between 30 ms and 150 ms after the mechanism has been tripped, depending upon age and construction of the device. The maximum current value and let-through energy determine the quality of the circuit breakers.
MCCB moulded case circuit breaker and is thermal operated for over load current and magnetic operation for instant trip in short circuit condition.under voltage and under frequency may be inbuilt. Normally it is used where normal current is more than 100A. 
“MCB” stands for “Miniature Circuit Breakers” while “MCCB” is “Molded Case Circuit Breaker.”. The main difference between the two is their capacity with the MCB rated under 100 amps with an interrupting rating of under 18,000 amps. Circuit breakers are usually reset after they have been “tripped.” Both MCB and MCCB are highly durable and could last for years depending on the manufacturer. When choosing between using an MCB and an MCCB, it is important to consider the amount of power that would be coursing through the device. As mentioned above, MCCB is more suited for higher energy because of its better capacity. Of course, when it comes to home use, the MCB is usually the circuit breaker of choice
Thermal or thermal-magnetic operation. Breakers illustrated above are in this category. MCCB (Moulded Case Circuit Breaker)—rated current up to 1000 A. Thermal or thermal-magnetic operation. MOULDED CASE CIRCUIT BREAKER Load Line range of Moulded Case Circuit Breakers are designed and manufactured to world-class standards. Loadline series MCCBs provide overload and short-circuit protection for all applications.
MCB is miniature circuit breaker which is thermal operated and use forshort circuit protection in small current rating circuit in branches of panel boards for small loads. MCCB moulded case circuitbreaker and is thermal operated for over load current and magnetic operation forinstant trip in short circuit condition. The main differences are The MCCB is equipped with tripping coil and can give a signal. The protection board of MCCB is more developed. It has L-L, L-G, thermal, and instantaneous setting, while MCB doesn't has those facilities.
MCB vs MCCB. Most people are confused about the differences between MCB and MCCB. Although both are circuit breakers, there are actually key differences between the two that makes them specially made for specific jobs. Circuit breakers are usually reset after they have been “tripped.” Both MCB and MCCB are highly durable and could last for years depending on the manufacturer. When choosing between using an MCB and an MCCB, it is important to consider the amount of power that would be coursing through the device. As mentioned above, MCCB is more suited for higher energy because of its better capacity. Of course, when it comes to home use, the MCB is usually the circuit breaker of choice
The MATRICS Consensus Cognitive Battery (MCCB) is a standardized battery for use with adults with schizophrenia and related disorders. Advancements in the past decade suggest that there may be opportunities for developing effective medications for improving cognition in people with schizophrenia. 
The traditional molded-case circuit breaker uses electromechanical (thermal magnetic) trip units that may be fixed or interchangeable. An MCCB provides protection by combining a temperature sensitive device with a current sensitive electromagnetic device. To stop this current flow quickly so that major damage can be prevented, the short circuit or instantaneous element of an MCCB is used. A typical time current curve for an instantaneous element, as shown in Fig. 2, shows that it will not initiate a trip until the fault current reaches or exceeds Point 1.
On the other hand, an MCCB comes with an adjustable trip characteristic for the higher models. Usually, this type of circuit breaker would provide amps as high as 2,500 or as low as 10 depending on what is necessary. Their interrupting rating can be around 10,000 amps to 200,000 amps. Circuit breakers are usually reset after they have been “tripped.” Both MCB and MCCB are highly durable and could last for years depending on the manufacturer. When choosing between using an MCB and an MCCB, it is important to consider the amount of power that would be coursing through the device. As mentioned above, MCCB is more suited for higher energy because of its better capacity. Of course, when it comes to home use, the MCB is usually the circuit breaker of choice