Many viruses can cause a rash in addition to other symptoms such as fever and cough. Many of these rashes are 'nonspecific'. This means the rash is not specific or characteristic enough to identify the virus that is causing the rash. 12. 0. 45. Many viral infections can cause a rash in addition to other symptoms. Rashes are very common with viral infections, especially in young children. It is very important to make sure the rash is not part of a serious infection-eg, meningococcal infection.
Rashes caused by viruses. Viral infections are common in babies and children and often cause a minor rash of the skin. These rashes are usually harmless and will go away on their own. Different viruses can cause different rashes, and sometimes different viruses can cause rashes that look the same. Although some viruses cause a distinctive rash, it is often difficult to tell exactly which virus is causing the rash. In nearly all cases, it is not important to know which virus is causing the rash. For examples of viruses that cause a distinctive rash, please see the following fact sheets for more information: Hand foot and mouth disease – coxsackie virus; Roseola infantum; Hives; and Slapped cheek or Fifth syndrome. Some viral infections can cause problems in early pregnancy.
A rash is an inflammatory reaction of the skin. Rashes can be caused by a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Rashes can affect a small area of the skin or the full body and occur in all age groups and populations. Rashes vary greatly in appearance, extent and severity, depending on the underlying cause.
A rash is a reaction of the skin. It can be caused by many things, such as a drug reaction, an infection, or an allergic reaction. Many different agents can cause similar-appearing rashes because the skin has a limited number of possible responses. Most rashes caused by viruses do not harm a child and go away over time without any treatment. However, some childhood rashes have serious or even life-threatening causes. Parents should be familiar with these rashes. Many rashes can look the same, making it difficult to know the exact diagnosis.
Overview. Many viruses, especially those which occur frequently in children and are highly contagious, cause skin rashes. Many common viruses are identified by a specific type of rash, but nonspecific rashes can accompany many viruses as well. Viruses that cause rash can be airborne or spread through person-to-person contact.
Viral exanthem, also known as non-specific viral rash, is a rash caused by a viral infection. Many viruses can cause a similar-appearing rash, so it is difficult to tell which one is the culprit. Your age, duration of illness, and other symptoms may suggest which virus is the cause. 
A rash is a noticeable change in the texture or color of the skin. The skin may become itchy, bumpy, chapped, scaly, or otherwise irritated. Rashes are caused by a wide range of conditions, including allergies, medication, cosmetics, and various diseases. Other types of rashes include: 1  eczema: a common rash for people with asthma or allergies. 2  The rash is often reddish and itchy, with a scaly texture. 3  bug bites: tick bites are of particular concern, as they can transmit disease.
Viral skin rash. This page deals with non-specific skin rashes caused by viruses. There is no typical pattern-they may be just a faint pink rash or a more extensive red rash. The key thing is that the rash blanches (goes white) with pressure. 