Whisk in oil until combined. Whisk in coconut milk, pandan extract, and 3 tablespoons pandan juice until combined. 3. Sift cake flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Gently whisk flour mixture into pandan mixture until smooth. 4. Using standing mixer fitted with whip attachment, beat 9 egg whites on medium low speed until frothy
2). In a small bowl, combine coconut milk, pandan extract and ovalette (using ovalette is optional). Add the 1/4 tsp. of pandan paste (or 1/4 tsp. green food coloring) to mixture if using (using the pandan paste or green food coloring is optional). Set aside. 3).
See the recipe for Pandan Chiffon Cake ». Emerald green, fluffy pandan chiffon cake, beloved from Indonesia to Singapore, is a curious manifestation of America's culinary influence on Southeast Asia. In 1948 Better Homes and Gardens published a General Mills recipe for chiffon cake. Whisk flour, 1 cup sugar, the baking powder, and salt in a bowl. Puree purée coconut, milk, oil, pandan and yolks in a; blender strain through a-fine mesh sieve set over dry ingredients and whisk to make a smooth. Batter using an electric hand, mixer beat whites and cream of tartar in another bowl until soft peaks. form
Pandan cake is a light, fluffy or sponge cake of Indonesian and Malaysian origins flavoured with the juice of Pandanus amaryllifolius leaves. The cakes are light green in tone due to the chlorophyll in the leaf juice. It also sometimes contains green food colouring to further enhance its colour. The cakes are sometimes not made with the leaf juice but instead simply flavoured with Pandanus extract, in which case colouring is added if a green colour is desired. It is popular in Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Vietnam, Laos, Thailand, Hong Kong and China.
Pandan Chiffon Cake. Emerald green, fluffy pandan chiffon cake, beloved from Indonesia to Singapore, is a curious manifestation of America's culinary influence on Southeast Asia. In 1948 Better Homes and Gardens published a General Mills recipe for chiffon cake. Whisk flour, 1 cup sugar, the baking powder, and salt in a bowl. Puree purée coconut, milk, oil, pandan and yolks in a; blender strain through a-fine mesh sieve set over dry ingredients and whisk to make a smooth. Batter using an electric hand, mixer beat whites and cream of tartar in another bowl until soft peaks. form
1 Beat the egg yolk, whole egg, salt, oil, pandan juice and coconut milk until fluffy. 2  Sift in the flour, then mix it until smooth and well combined, set aside. 3  Beat egg whites and sugar until stiff. 4  Mix the egg yolk batter earlier with egg white mixture evenly by using the chiffon cake mixing method. 
A chiffon cake is a very light cake made with vegetable oil, eggs, sugar, flour, baking powder, and flavorings. It is a combination of both batter and foam type (sponge type) cakes. Instead of the traditional cake ingredient batter or paste, vegetable oil is used; but this is difficult to beat enough air into. 
I love chiffon cake of all kinds—pandan, orange, or coffee, but my true love is definitely pandan chiffon cake. Pandan leaf (screwpine leaf) is widely used in Malaysia, and this chiffon cake is infused with the sweet fragrance of fresh pandan juice. If you love Angel cake, you absolutely have to try this out. Pandan Chiffon Cake is the Asian version of Angel Cake and it has a very soft cottony texture that would actually melts in your mouth. This cake is light unlike the traditional cakes where lots of butter, cheese, etc. is being used.
Thanh’s cake tasted great, but it was denser than the pandan chiffon cake I remember from my childhood. His recipe also called for only 100ml of coconut milk, but a small can of coconut milk is 165ml and I didn’t want to waste the rest of the can. 