1 Discuss three types of themes in Greek myths: stories about heroes, stories about how it came to be, and stories about the consequences of unwise behavior.
This website contains all off the stories, notes, worksheets, and activities that could possibly be used. All documents are in PDF format for easy printing. if you do not have Adobe Reader, click the icon below to safely download a free copy.
Background for the Teacher: Heroes were an important part of Greek mythology, but the characteristics Greeks admired in a hero are not necessarily identical to those we admire today. Greek heroes are not always what modern readers might think of as good role models.. Their actions may strike us as morally dubious.
1 Describe the basic plots of several Greek myths. 2  Discuss three types of themes in Greek myths: stories about heroes, stories about how it came to be, and stories about the consequences of unwise behavior. 3  Cite examples of contemporary use of terms from Greek mythology.
Odysseus is one of the greatest heroes of Greek culture. Known for his cunning and intelligence, he was instrumental in helping the Greeks emerge victorious in the Trojan War. But it was his adventures after the ten-year war ended that inspired Homer to immortalize him in The Odyssey.
During the marking period that you are in Language Arts Cycle, you will be studying a unit based on Greek mythology.
The Greeks held their characters accountable for their actions, and a hero might be punished as well as rewarded. Note to the teacher: If desired, you can refer to the complementary EDSITEment lesson plans about heroes: What Makes a Hero (3-5) and Portrait of a Hero.
The lessons in this unit provide you with an opportunity to use online resources to further enliven your students' encounter with Greek mythology, to deepen their understanding of what myths meant to the ancient Greeks, and to help them appreciate the meanings that Greek myths have for us today.
Learn more | See related books. See all buying options. Odysseus (Profiles in Greek and Roman Mythology). $17.95 FREE Shipping on orders over $35. Only 9 left in stock (more on the way). Ships from and sold by Amazon.com.