1.2. Distance Indicators. Measuring the distance to a galaxy almost always involves one of the following properties of the propagation of light: (1) The apparent brightness of a source falls of inversely with the square of its distance; (2) The angular size of a source falls off inversely with its distance.
1 The galaxy light becomes smoother with distance as there are more stars averaged in each square arcsecond, and this can be quantified as a distance indicator given suitable assumptions. 2  Tully-Fisher relation relates the velocity width and luminosity of spiral galaxies.
The advantage of this distance indicator is its enormous luminosity. At more than 10 8 times solar luminosity, or 10,000 times more luminous than a Cepheid variable, they can be used out to 1000 Mpc or beyond. They can even be detected at such a distance that the galaxy that contains them is invisible!
Cepheids in Spiral Galaxy NGC 4603. Click here for original source URL. Individual stellar types are used as distance indicators within the Local Group and out to about 10 Mpc, but they cannot be used at the enormous distances of the most remote galaxies, for two reasons.
To determine the distance to a galaxy, we take the absolute luminosity of one of the distance indicators within the galaxy and its observed apparent brightness. Then, using the inverse-square law of brightness, we find the distance by way of the distance modulus (m-M), as described in Section 13.2.
Distance Indicator. Distance Indicator. Objects whose luminosities or diameters are known; used to find the distance to a star cluster or galaxy. Distance Modulus ... Primary Distance Indicator-A type of object, such a Cepheid variable, for which we know the size or brightness by observing them in the Milky Way ...
A summary of these methods: 1  Cepheid variable stars and their cousins the RR Lyrae stars are the primary distance indicators in the galaxy and the local group. 2  They pulsate radially (basically at the sound speed in the envelope of the star) with a period inversely proportional to the square root of the density.