Borlotti beans are also known as cranberry beans or French horticultural beans and are some of the cutest darn beans around if you ask me. Don’t get too excited about how festive they look, though, as that color goes away with cooking. They eventually turn brown. I’m not a bean expert or anything, but to me, borlotti beans taste most like what those of us who enjoy baked beans are used to having.
Dried barbunya or borlotti or cranberry beans. A variety of kidney beans, borlotti beans are a large plump bean that is pinkish-brown in color with reddish-brown streaks. They are packed with goodness, rich source of cholesterol-lowering fiber and Omega 3 and 6 fatty acids. […] Barbunya pilaki, borlotti beans cooked in olive oil with tomatoes, onions and carrots, is my father’s favorite Zeytinyagli, Vegetables cooked in olive oil, Turkish style.
Borlotti beans: Borlotti beans, also known as cranberry beans or French horticultural beans, are off-white beans with red markings. When you can find them fresh they come in large beige and red pods with colors that resemble the dried beans. In the shell the borlotti's bright colored pods make a festive table accent. Dried borlotti can be soaked overnight and the simmered under water or stock with vegetables and or meats. When cooked the beans will lose some of their bright markings and turn a light brown color.
Borlotti beans recipes. A variety of kidney bean, this is a large plump bean that is pinkish-brown in colour with reddish-brown streaks. Borlotti beans are widely used in Italian cooking and have a sweetish flavour with a smooth creamy texture. They work well in salads and casseroles. The dried variety needs to be soaked in cold water before cooking
BORLOTTI BEANS. Nutritional Value: Borlotti beans provide more protein than any other plant-derived food. They’re a good source of starch, provide B-complex vitamins like B1/thiamine, B2/riboflavin, B3/niacin, B5/pantothenic acid, B6/pyridoxine, B12/cobalamins, biotin, and folate. They provide essential minerals like iron, potassium, zinc. Borlotti beans provide a good balance of complex carbohydrates and proteins. They provide a slow, steady source of glucose making it a good food for diabetics. They are comparable to the nutrient content of kidney beans
It is resistant to viruses and has a high yield. The Borlotti bean, also known as the Roman bean or romano bean (not to be confused with the Italian flat bean, a green bean also called romano bean), is a variety of cranberry bean bred in Italy to have a thicker skin. It is used in Italian, Portuguese (Catarino bean), Turkish, and Greek cuisine. 
BORLOTTI BEANS. I am not sure if Borlotti beans have been bad boys or villains, due to the number of aliases, or other names that they have, among which are Cranberry beans, French hor ticultural beans, Saluggia or Rosecoco beans. The borlotti bean (if puchased dry) should be soaked over night and it is suggested that the stripes fade, whilst others say the stripes are more apparent, this may be due to any additives when boiling such as herbs or salts, if boiling add a little salt afterwards to stop the beans from going tough.
Borlotti beans provide a good-dose of: Protein, necessary for the building and repair of body tissues, produces enzymes, hormones, and other substances the body uses. Borlotti beans provide a good balance of complex carbohydrates and proteins. They provide a slow, steady source of glucose making it a good food for diabetics. They are comparable to the nutrient content of kidney bean