2. Lower Your Weight. If you're overweight, you might not have to lose as much as you think to make a difference. In one study, people who had prediabetes and lost 5% to 7% of their body weight (just 10-14 pounds in someone who weights 200 pounds) cut their chances of getting diabetes by 58%. See your doctor every three to six months, Gerety says.
Type 2 Diabetes. Type 2 diabetes occurs when your body does not produce or use enough insulin to be able to turn glucose into energy. Glucose is the sugar and starch that comes from the food you eat, which fuels your body. Insulin is a hormone that carries glucose from your blood into your cells. Without enough insulin, sugar builds up in your blood and can cause serious health problems.
That helps keep your insulin resistance low. In many cases pre diabetic means your body is building a resistance to using your natural insulin. If you carry your weight around your middle work on losing some weight and exercise. Fat around the middle increases insulin resistance. Best Answer: You need to eat only low carbohydrate foods or whole foods. You must avoid starches and sugars. That means no bread, bagels, pasta or cake. No sugar sweetened soda or sugary drinks of any kind. If you feel you must have bread go with whole grain bread. Instead of white rice use brown rice.
At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Prediabetes means that your blood sugar level is higher than normal but not yet high enough to be classified as type 2 diabetes. Without intervention, prediabetes is likely to become type 2 diabetes in 10 years or less. If you have prediabetes, the long-term damage of diabetes — especially to your heart and circulatory system — may already be starting. There's good news, however
If your doctor gives you an oral glucose tolerance test, and at two-hours your blood glucose is 140-199 mg/dl, you have  impaired glucose tolerance . Either of these is medical terminology for what your doctor is probably referring to when he says you have pre-diabetes.. Your dietitian will also direct you how to make food choices that cut down on the amount of fat you eat because each gram of fat has significantly more calories in it than a gram of carbohydrate or protein. This means: 1  eating more foods that are broiled and fewer foods that are fried.
If you have pre-diabetes, you are at high risk of developing type 2 diabetes and also are at increased risk of developing heart disease. Pre-diabetes is a condition in which blood glucose levels are higher than normal, but not high enough to be classified as full-blown diabetes. Your dietitian will also direct you how to make food choices that cut down on the amount of fat you eat because each gram of fat has significantly more calories in it than a gram of carbohydrate or protein. This means: 1  eating more foods that are broiled and fewer foods that are fried.
A Enas Shakkour, Nutrition & Dietetics, answered. The amount of carbs you can eat depends on your age, sex, height, weight, and activity level. On average females can have 3-4 servings of carbs for each meal, and a serving of carbs in between meals. A serving of carbohydrates is 15 grams of carbs. 
Your dietitian will show you how you can continue to eat all the foods you love — just probably not in the same proportions as you have in the past. Having diabetes or having pre-diabetes does not mean that you can't eat certain foods. The solution isn't avoid foods with sugar in them.. Rather, you need to lose weight if you are overweight, cut back on portion sizes, and plan for those occasions when you eat a small piece of cake or pie. Your dietitian will also direct you how to make food choices that cut down on the amount of fat you eat because each gram of fat has significantly more calories in it than a gram of carbohydrate or protein. This means: 1  eating more foods that are broiled and fewer foods that are fried.