The CVV Number ( C ard V erification V alue) on your credit card or debit card is a 3 digit number on VISA®, MasterCard® and Discover® branded credit and debit cards. On your American Express® branded credit or debit card it is a 4 digit numeric code. CVV numbers are NOT your card's secret PIN (P ersonal I dentification N umber). You should. enter your PIN number when asked to provide your CVV.
For American Express, the four-digit CVV number is printed on the front of the card above the card account number. Visa / MasterCard / Discover American Express The verification number for Visa, MasterCard, and Discover cards are a 3-digit number printed on the back. It appears after and to the right of your card number. The American Express verification number is a 4-digit number printed on the front of your card.
For Visa, MasterCard, and Discover cards, the card code is the last 3 digit number located on the back of your card on or above your signature line. For an American Express card, it is the 4 digits on the FRONT above the end of your card number. Visa calls this code Card Verification Value (CVV); MasterCard calls it Card Validation Code (CVC); Discover calls it Card ID (CID). The card code is a three-or four-digit security code that is printed on the back of cards. The number typically appears at the end of the signature panel.
Turn your card over and look at the signature box. You should see either the entire 16-digit credit card number or. just the last four digits followed by a special 3-digit code. This 3-digit code is your CVV number / Card Security Code. American Express® cardholders: Look for the 4-digit code printed on the front of your card just above and to the right of your main credit card number. This 4-digit code is your Card Identification Number (CID).
Datto. Card verification value (CVV) is a combination of features used in credit, debit and automated teller machine (ATM) cards for the purpose of establishing the owner's identity and minimizing the risk of fraud. The CVV is also known as the card verification code (CVC) or card security code (CSC). 
The card security code is located on the back of MasterCard, Visa, Discover, Diners Club, and JCB credit or debit cards and is typically a separate group of 3 digits to the right of the signature strip. 
(it is the last 3 digits AFTER the credit card number in the signature area of the card). You can find your four-digit card verification number on the front of your American Express credit card above the credit card number on either the right or the left side of your credit card. CARD VERIFICATION VALUE CODE (CVV).
CVV is an anti-fraud security feature to help verify that you are in possession of your credit card. For Visa/MasterCard, and Discover, the three-digit CVV number is printed on the signature panel on the back of the card immediately after the card's account number. The verification number for Visa, MasterCard, and Discover cards are a 3-digit number printed on the back. It appears after and to the right of your card number. The American Express verification number is a 4-digit number printed on the front of your card.
For Visa®, MasterCard®, and Discover® cards, the card code is the last 3 digit number located on the back of your card on or above your signature line. For an American Express® card, it is the 4 digits on the FRONT above the end of your card number. Visa ® calls this code Card Verification Value (CVV); MasterCard ® calls it Card Validation Code (CVC); Discover ® calls it Card ID (CID). The card code is a three-or four-digit security code that is printed on the back of cards. The number typically appears at the end of the signature panel.
CVV stands for Card Verification Value (Discover Card calls it the Cardmember ID). 1  It is the three-digit number printed in the signature space on the back of most credit cards, such as Visa, Mastercard, and Discover cards. 2  It is a four-digit number on the front of American Express cards. 1 It is the three-digit number printed in the signature space on the back of most credit cards, such as Visa, Mastercard, and Discover cards. 2  The CVV2 number is always the last group of numbers in the signature space on the back of the card. 3  It is not part of your regular credit card number.