Nature uses microorganisms to carry out fermentation processes, and for thousands of years mankind has used yeasts, moulds and bacteria to make food products such as bread, beer, wine, vinegar, yoghurt and cheese, as well as fermented fish, meat and vegetables. 
Most fresh foods, such as fresh meat, vegetables, and fruits, have a w values that are close to the optimum growth level of most microorganisms (0.97 - 0.99). Table 3-1 shows the approximate a w levels of some common food categories. 
Food microbiology is the study of the microorganisms that inhabit, create, or contaminate food, including the study of microorganisms causing food spoilage. Good bacteria, however, such as probiotics, are becoming increasingly important in food science. In addition, microorganisms are essential for the production of foods such as cheese, yogurt, bread, beer, wine and, other fermented foods. Food safety is a major focus of food microbiology. Pathogenic bacteria, viruses and toxins produced by microorganisms are all possible contaminants of food. However, microorganisms and their products can also be used to combat these pathogenic microbes.
Bacteria are the most important microorganisms to the food processor. Most are harmless, many are highly beneficial, some indicate the probable presence of filth, disease organisms, spoilage and a few cause disease. A few of the E. Coli strains found in human feces are in themselves pathogenic, causing infection and disease. These are called Enteropathogenic E. Coli or EEC. In one extensive study of the feces of food handlers (Hal and Hause, 1966), 6.4% of the workers harbored the EEC organisms as carriers.
Viruses are the smallest and simplest microorganisms. Unlike bacteria, yeasts, and molds, viruses are incapable of reproducing independently. Instead, they must first invade the cells of another living organism called the host, before they can multiply. A few of the E. Coli strains found in human feces are in themselves pathogenic, causing infection and disease. These are called Enteropathogenic E. Coli or EEC. In one extensive study of the feces of food handlers (Hal and Hause, 1966), 6.4% of the workers harbored the EEC organisms as carriers.
As regulators, we are most concerned with the effects that microorganisms have on food that leads to food borne illness, because this affects public health. A food borne illness (or disease) is exactly what the term indicates-a disease or illness caused by the consumption of contaminated foods or beverages. 
Fermentation is one of the methods to preserve food and alter its quality. Yeast, especially Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is used to leaven bread, brew beer and make wine. Certain bacteria, including lactic acid bacteria, are used to make yogurt, cheese, hot sauce, pickles, fermented sausages and dishes such as kimchi. Food safety is a major focus of food microbiology. Pathogenic bacteria, viruses and toxins produced by microorganisms are all possible contaminants of food. However, microorganisms and their products can also be used to combat these pathogenic microbes.
Food-borne illness often shows itself as flu-like symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or fever, so many people may not recognize the illness is caused by bacteria or other pathogens on food. Thousands of types of bacteria are naturally present in our environment. Not all bacteria cause disease in humans. Raw meat, poultry, seafood, and eggs are not sterile. Neither is produce such as lettuce, tomatoes, sprouts, and melons. 2. Foods, including safely cooked, ready-to-eat foods, can become cross-contaminated with bacteria introduced on raw products, meat juices, or other contaminated products, or by poor personal hygiene.
The viruses are important to the food process in two respects: 1  As a bacteriophage of lactic or other fermentative bacteria. 2  Bacteriophage infections of starter cultures can interfere seriously with the manufacture of cheese, buttermilk, sauerkraut, pickles, wine, beer, and other desirable fermentative products. A few of the E. Coli strains found in human feces are in themselves pathogenic, causing infection and disease. These are called Enteropathogenic E. Coli or EEC. In one extensive study of the feces of food handlers (Hal and Hause, 1966), 6.4% of the workers harbored the EEC organisms as carriers.