Taxonomy of Creeping Phlox: Plant taxonomy classifies creeping phlox plants as Phlox subulata. Besides  creeping phlox, another common name for P. subulata is moss pink, a name which suggests both its growth habit and the bloom color for which it is most widely known. Some prefer moss phlox as a common name. Both of these alternate monikers help distinguish this plant from P. stolonifera.
Creeping Phlox (Phlox subulata) is a favorite for gardeners all across the country – they are ground-covering plants that bloom in a solid carpet in spring. Creeping Phlox also spreads rapidly, covering banks, spaces under tall trees, and other places where you want color. In one color, or as a rainbow, creeping phlox creates one of the most dependably perennial groundcovers you can plant. 
Creeping phlox flowers in late spring. Both alyssum and creeping phlox are low-growing, flowering plants. The common name, “alyssum,” however, can refer to more than one kind of plant. Sweet alyssum, usually grown as an annual, has the botanical name Lobularia maritimum. It belongs to the Brassicaceae plant family. Hardiness. Creeping phlox is a perennial evergreen plant that thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 through 8. It grows 6 to 12 inches tall and spreads to 3 feet wide. Sweet alyssum, which reaches 6 to 8 inches tall, is grown as an annual in most parts of the United States.
Phlox (/ˈflɒks/ ; Greek φλόξ flame; plural phlox or phloxes, Greek φλόγες phloges) phlóges is a genus of 67 species of perennial and annual plants in the Family. polemoniaceae Several species and cultivars of phlox are commonly grown in gardens. Most cultivated phlox, with the notable exception of Phlox drummondii, are perennial. Species from Alpine habitats (and cultivars derived from them) require full sun and good drainage.
An evergreen plant, creeping phlox remains attractive throughout the winter. A perennial ground cover, creeping phlox (Phlox subulata) spreads to display a thick blanket of blooms in vibrant shades of pink, lavender, red, white or bluish-purple every spring. 7. Water the creeping phlox immediately after planting, moistening the soil to a depth of 6 to 8 inches. Keep the soil lightly moist for about a month, or until the plant is established and new growth appears.
Overview. Creeping phlox (Phlox subulata) is a charming, demure woodland plant, happy to blend into the background in a dense, green carpet until the colorful pink, purple and lavender blooms burst out in spring. Creeping phlox is especially effective along the edge of a flower bed, or on a rocky hillside. 
Creeping phlox (Phlox subulata) produces a colorful spring carpet of soft pastel hues. Little expert knowledge is needed on how to plant and care for creeping phlox. Growing creeping phlox over a rockery or in tough soil conditions provides a nearly carefree ground cover or cascading plant. Consider growing it in between pavers, in a planter or just as a part of a bright spring bed as well. Creeping Phlox Propagation. The plant can also be divided to provide more growing creeping phlox plants. Simply dig the plant up, preserving the root ball. Cut through the center of the plant and through the roots with a sharp soil knife or even a spade.
1 Plant phlox in the spring and space the plants 1 to 2 feet apart. 2  If you are moving a plant from a pot, dig a hole about twice the size of the pot’s diameter and place the plant so that the top of the root ball is even with the soil’s surface. 3  Fill in around the root ball and remember to water it thoroughly. 1 It is easier to grow phlox from cuttings/transplants than seeds. 2  Plant phlox in the spring and space the plants 1 to 2 feet apart. 3
Phlox subulata (creeping phlox, moss phlox, moss pink, or mountain phlox) is a species of flowering plant in the family Polemoniaceae, native to eastern and central USA, and widely cultivated. 
Both alyssum and creeping phlox are low-growing, flowering plants. The common name, “alyssum,” however, can refer to more than one kind of plant. Sweet alyssum, usually grown as an annual, has the botanical name Lobularia maritimum. Hardiness. Creeping phlox is a perennial evergreen plant that thrives in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 4 through 8. It grows 6 to 12 inches tall and spreads to 3 feet wide. Sweet alyssum, which reaches 6 to 8 inches tall, is grown as an annual in most parts of the United States.