A person with gluten sensitivity (also known as gluten intolerance) may have symptoms such as bloating, abdominal pain, or diarrhea, but, because the immune or autoimmune symptoms are not involved, it is not considered as serious a condition as celiac disease or gluten allergy. Gliadin is also one of the major allergens associated with wheat allergies and a trigger for celiac disease, a serious autoimmune disorder of the small intestine. Unlike a gluten allergy, in which small amounts of gluten may be tolerated, a patient with celiac disease cannot tolerate any gluten at all.
1 Ask your doctor about other grains. 2  When you have a wheat allergy, you may or may not be allergic to some other grains, too. 3  Gluten, one of the wheat proteins that can cause a reaction, is also in barley, rye, and oats. 4  Ask your doctor if they are safe to eat. 5  Always check labels. 1 Gluten, one of the wheat proteins that can cause a reaction, is also in barley, rye, and oats. 2  Ask your doctor if they are safe to eat. 3  Always check labels. 4  Allergic reactions to wheat can range from stomach upset to asthma-like symptoms to anaphylaxis, which is an emergency.
Coeliac disease is a lifelong intolerance to gliaden, part of the gluten proteins that are a large part of the grain of wheat, rye and barley. It causes damage to the small intestine and many other symptoms and tends to run in families. Strict adherence to a gluten-free diet brings complete resolution of symptoms. 
Gluten Allergy Overview. A gluten allergy is the body's inability to digest or break down the gluten protein found in wheat and certain other grains. Gluten intolerance (also known as a gluten sensitivity) can range from a mild sensitivity to gluten to full-blown celiac disease
Gluten-related disorders is the umbrella term for all diseases triggered by gluten. Gluten-related disorders/gliadin-related disorders include celiac disease and non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS). Formerly, also gluten intolerance has been used as umbrella term, and the expression gluten sensitivity has been used either as umbrella term or for NCGS. 
4 Wheat Allergy Tips. 1  Ask your doctor about other grains. 2  When you have a wheat allergy, you may or may not be allergic to some other grains, too. 3  Gluten, one of the wheat proteins that can cause a reaction, is also in barley, rye, and oats. 4  Ask your doctor if they are safe to eat. 5  Always check labels. 1 Gluten, one of the wheat proteins that can cause a reaction, is also in barley, rye, and oats. 2  Ask your doctor if they are safe to eat. 3  Always check labels. 4  Allergic reactions to wheat can range from stomach upset to asthma-like symptoms to anaphylaxis, which is an emergency.
A gluten allergy—not to be confused with gluten sensitivity or celiac disease—is caused by gliadin, a glycoprotein that, along with glutenin (another protein), helps to form the gluten protein. Gluten is found in wheat and other related grains such as barley, oats, and rye. Gliadin is also one of the major allergens associated with wheat allergies and a trigger for celiac disease, a serious autoimmune disorder of the small intestine. Unlike a gluten allergy, in which small amounts of gluten may be tolerated, a patient with celiac disease cannot tolerate any gluten at all.
Symptoms of a gluten allergy are often similar to those in celiac disease and may include abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, fatigue, bloating, heartburn, bloating, anxiety and anemia. Gliadin is also one of the major allergens associated with wheat allergies and a trigger for celiac disease, a serious autoimmune disorder of the small intestine. Unlike a gluten allergy, in which small amounts of gluten may be tolerated, a patient with celiac disease cannot tolerate any gluten at all.
Gluten sensitivity or intolerance is a condition that causes a person to react after ingesting gluten, a protein found in wheat, barley and rye. Symptoms vary widely and can include gastrointestinal problems, joint pain, fatigue and depression. 