You should then send out the invitations eight to ten weeks before the wedding. Since these kinds of trips typically include more events than just the ceremony and reception, you'll probably want to ask for RSVPs three to four weeks before the departure date. For a destination wedding, it's typical to send out a save the date about six months before, which will give your guests time to budget and hunt for travel deals.
Report Abuse. Send the invitations 1 to 1 1/2 months before the wedding reception. Example: if you are getting married August 30th 2007 then send out the invitations at the end of June. Educated · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
1 If you send your invitations out 6 to 8 weeks in advance, the likelihood is that most of them will come. 2  So estimate that 85% of them will attend. 3  Don’t forget to account for plus ones, if you’ve invited them. 4  Out of town acceptance rate is around 85% for family and 40% for friends. 1 (# of out of town guests * 65%) + (# of local guests * 90%) = total # estimated to attend. 2  It’s a good idea to make an A list and a B list. 3  Send your a list invitations out 8 weeks in advance. 4  As you start to get acceptances and declines, you can start inviting some of the people from your B list.
Bridezilla. Hi Claire-I didn't send save the date cards, but put reminders in everyone's Christmas cards instead (thought that would kill two birds with one stone!) My wedding is in October too (21st) and I'm sending out invitations probably in late June. A lot of the magazines say to send them out six to eight weeks before, but to be honest I think that's rather late. We will have guests coming from all over the country and outside the UK and these days people lead such busy lives that dates get booked up so far in advance.
Our wedding is 25th August this year. We sent out save the date cards in Christmas cards, and I really want to send out the invitations now!!!!! But will be good and wait til April I think, so 4 months before. Which may seem a bit far in advance, but its a bank hol weekend, school hols, people go away etc! x. A lot of the magazines say to send them out six to eight weeks before, but to be honest I think that's rather late. We will have guests coming from all over the country and outside the UK and these days people lead such busy lives that dates get booked up so far in advance.
How far in advance should we send out save-the-dates and invitations for our destination wedding? Word on the hostess circuit is that you send out save-the-date cards eight months prior, and the invites eight weeks before your big day. 
A: Ideally, invitations should go out eight weeks before the wedding -- this gives guests plenty of time to clear their schedules for the day and make travel arrangements if they are out-of-towners. Timely invitations also let you make the RSVP date earlier -- about three weeks before the wedding -- so you can get a final head count and start making a seating chart (if you'll have one) before the week-before-the-wedding crunch begins.
Make sure also to ask your caterer when they'll need final head counts. Typically, you should ask for an RSVP date 3 weeks before your wedding, if you sent them on time. At a minimum, send them out six weeks in advance, and set an RSVP date of 2 weeks before the wedding. For a destination wedding, it's typical to send out a save the date about six months before, which will give your guests time to budget and hunt for travel deals.