It is a scattered parish with two distinct areas: Brook End, which straggles along the brook, probably the only natural source of water in the village, and Keysoe Row approximately one mile south which is a ribbon development along the high ground. The chapel at Brook End closed in 1977 and the building is now a private house. Keysoe Windmill, a post mill very similar to the one still standing at Stevington, was in fact the last working windmill in Bedfordshire. Having been disused for some years, it finally collapsed in a storm in 1948.
We run a varied calendar of Affiliated & Unaffiliated events including premier shows throughout the year. Our calendar is regularly updated and entries can be made via our online entry system for most events. 
We know that he spent time in Keysoe – he would have been among friends-and it is recorded that he held open air meetings in Park Wood, to the north-west of the village, where he and several local men were arrested on one occasion. The chapel at Brook End closed in 1977 and the building is now a private house. Keysoe Windmill, a post mill very similar to the one still standing at Stevington, was in fact the last working windmill in Bedfordshire. Having been disused for some years, it finally collapsed in a storm in 1948.
See More. Tickets for our Treehouse Sporting Colours sponsored 'Better Cross Country Riding' masterclasses with Chris Bartle and Paul Tapner are now on sale! Dates and ve ... nues are; 11th November The College EC at Keysoe, 12th November Bishop Burton and 18th November at Hartpury Colleg
KEYSOE. [Transcribed and edited information from The National Gazetteer of Great Britain and Ireland - 1868]. KEYSOE, a parish in the hundred of Stodden, county Bedford, 9 miles north of Bedford, and 4 south west of Kimbolton, its post town. The village is small and scattered. The inhabitants are chiefly employed in agriculture. The land is chiefly arable, with some pasture, and 350 acres of woodland, chiefly planted with oak. The tithes were commuted for land and a money payment under an Enclosure Act in 1303. The living is a vicarage in the diocese of Ely, value £175, in the patronage of Trinity College, Cambridge. The church, dedicated to St. Mary, is an ancient edifice with a lofty spire.
Keysoe is a village located in the Borough of Bedford in Bedfordshire, England. Historically part of the Stodden hundred in Bedfordshire, part of Keysoe was originally located in Huntingdonshire. Today the village forms part of the Bolnhurst and Keysoe civil parish. The Church of St Mary the Virgin is located in the village. The College Equestrian Centre is based in Keysoe. The centre is a club and venue for horse sport events and training. The venue was used by equestrian teams training for the 2012 Summer Olympics and 2012 Summer Paralympics.
We have a good Village Hall with modern facilities and a new playing field, complete with children’s play equipment. We hold a Seed Sale in January and a Plant Sale in April, both of which support the Village Show at Keysoe in September, which, with its associated Scarecrow Competition, is now a major event. The chapel at Brook End closed in 1977 and the building is now a private house. Keysoe Windmill, a post mill very similar to the one still standing at Stevington, was in fact the last working windmill in Bedfordshire. Having been disused for some years, it finally collapsed in a storm in 1948.