Equipment and Supplies. Equipment to run the bakery is another cost to consider when opening a dog bakery. You'll need an oven, mixers, baking sheets, cookie cutters, glass display counters, a cash register and display racks for any additional products you plan to offer. In addition, purchase containers for the dog treats. The business is low budget enough to start on a shoestring, but the income potential is high. A dog bakery business can be started with as little as $1,000 or as much as $100,000 when buying a franchise.
There are a number of companies that offer franchise licenses for dog treat bakeries. Fees to purchase a franchise and use the companies name, recipes and methods can range from $15,000 to $100,000. Start a dog bakery on a shoestring by foregoing the franchise and creating your own unique dog bakery name and products. The business is low budget enough to start on a shoestring, but the income potential is high. A dog bakery business can be started with as little as $1,000 or as much as $100,000 when buying a franchise.
For the same territory, a bakery might have paid up to $1,000 for permits. A national bread bakery franchise estimates that initial real estate and improvements costs would range from $26,000 to $224,000, as of 2015. It estimates city, state and county fees to run from $400 to $13,500. For a startup bakery in Orlando focusing on cupcakes, that figure is about $15,000 as of this publication. However, for a bread bakery franchise, the total is close to $330,000. Acording to Entrepreneur Magazine, bakery franchises can cost as low as $46,000 to open, but can run into the millions depending on the size and scope of the business
Equipment. This is an area that's going to vary a lot depending on what you want to do. For some people, the only thing on their mind for this section will be renovating their home kitchen into a state of the art baking facility. That can cost $40,000. I'm going to start with the home bakery. If you want to skip ahead to a retail bakery, go to start up costs for a retail bakery. Permits, Licenses and Business Certificates. The fast number for this category is $300.
Startup Costs. There are many startup costs associated with opening a bakery. If you are starting from scratch, you need to purchase all of the materials you need to start baking. You also need to ensure you have the tools needed to be successful -- such as mixers, ovens and other basic necessities. New York Magazine describes the startup costs of a recent bakery as totaling almost $40,000. These costs included facility-related expenses such as construction and rental fees, startup inventory and other materials necessary to start the bakery. When preparing a budget to open a bakery, the first activity to conduct is to identify how much money you plan to bring into the business through the sale of your products.
No one can tell you how much it will cost you to open a bakery...not even a ballpark. There are all different types of bakeries in all locations. You need to find out what your HD requires and then get online or go to restuarant supply stores and price out your neccessities. 
Report Abuse. If you've ever dreamed of opening a bakery, your chances of success may be high: baked goods and bakeries are among the fastest-growing industries for small businesses. In 2010, bakeries accounted for 2.1% of the US GDP.. Best Answer: It will cost you about $50k - $100k for the first year. I list below what you need. Also, I do OK at my bakery, so it is possible to make money. The list below is probably NOT going to have everything because every situation is different.
Plus this guide can help you open a bakery and start a bakery business much more quickly and cost-effectively. If you believe you deserve to have the career of your dreams, this guide is for you. It gives you what you need to know to start a bakery business and open a bakery. 
To open a comprehensive bakery franchise serving bread, treats and sandwiches, opening inventory costs for ingredients and supplies can be as high as $27,000, as of 2015. The Great Harvest Bread Bakery franchise estimates that an average franchisee would pay $17,800. For a startup bakery in Orlando focusing on cupcakes, that figure is about $15,000 as of this publication. However, for a bread bakery franchise, the total is close to $330,000. Acording to Entrepreneur Magazine, bakery franchises can cost as low as $46,000 to open, but can run into the millions depending on the size and scope of the business