The main function of melanin is to provide pigmentation mainly to the skin, hair and iris of the eye. In addition melanin is important in protecting the skin from ultra violet rays of the sun which can be damaging. This is why albinos are highly susceptible to skin problems such as sun burns caused by UV rays. If you go out into the sun you will notice a considerable darkening of the exposed skin. It determines the color of the skin, hair and eyes. Melanin is produced in the skin in cells known as melanocytes and through a process called melanogenesis. There exist different subtypes of melanin which are found in different people and different parts of the body.
What is Melanin and why is it important. For many years now the subject of melanin remains a mystery throughout the world and is rarely spoken about or taught in the general public but its a hot topic among the scientific community. 
Issues With Expression of Melanin. In humans, melanin production is important for the prevention of skin cancers, such as melanoma. This means that the skin becomes darker in most individuals when exposure to sunlight increases. Additionally, overgrowth of melanocytes can lead to the development of moles in the skin. Melanin is a pigment produced in the skin of almost all animals on earth. Its role in animal survival is critical, and varies depending on the organism. This article addresses melanin function and expression in humans and other organisms, and its role in survival.
Please try again later. Yedidiah amun speaking on Melanin which is a Carbon based element in the hue-man skin/body & it's importance. Carbon is what gives melanin it's power to Adapt to it's surrounding, And absorb high level's of ultraviolet rays from the sun. 
Function of skin pigment. Melanin is a naturally produced polymer found in a multitude of locations in the body, from the eye and ear, to the brain and skin. Each different location contains a different variety of melanin, such as neuromelanin in the brain, and eumelanin and pheomelanin in the skin. Where reference is made to melanin in the text, eumelanin is implied. It is known that the melanin in the skin acts as a pigment, but the importance of melanin in most of the other organs is not well understood.
There is more than one type of melanin. You have brain melanin, also known as neuromelanin, and you have skin melanin. Neuromelanin does not run parallel with skin melanin. Whether white, red, yellow, black, or brown, neuromelanin plays an important role in functioning of the brain, and nervous system. Melanosomes (small structures within the melanocyte cells where melanin is synthesized) find their way into the hair cells, giving them color. First is the amount of melanin in the outer layers of the skin. Melanin acts as a filter to prevent damage to the delicate deeper layers of the skin, by penetration of ultraviolet light.
Skin color is due primarily to the presence of a pigment called melanin, which is controlled by at least 6 genes. Both light and dark complexioned people have melanin. However, two forms are produced--pheomelanin, which is red to yellow in color, and eumelanin, which is dark brown to black. 
Melanin is important because its the most primitive and universal pigment in living organisms. Melanin is produced in the pineal gland. First is the amount of melanin in the outer layers of the skin. Melanin acts as a filter to prevent damage to the delicate deeper layers of the skin, by penetration of ultraviolet light.
Melanin is a pigment that is produced by cells known as melanocytes in the skin of most animals. It comes in two basic forms: eumelanin (brownish color) and pheomelanin (reddish-brown color). The production of melanin is affected by UV exposure, genetic make-up, size of melanocytes, and disease conditions. Melanin is a pigment produced in the skin of almost all animals on earth. Its role in animal survival is critical, and varies depending on the organism. This article addresses melanin function and expression in humans and other organisms, and its role in survival.
Melanin is a pigment that affects your skin to keep it the color it is. Melanin is brown. The more melanin in the skin, the darker the colour of the skin is. Melanin helps the … skin by protecting it from the UV rays of the sun. Albinos are prone to a variety of skin diseases.   Melanin are the cells in our skin that are colored. They are the color pigmentation that we have.