Milla is an unusual first name for females but a very prominent surname for all people (#28584 out of 150436, Top 19%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Milla for girls. Milla is pronounced similarly to Mala, Malea, Malia ▲ , Mally, Mela, Melia, Mella, Melli, Melly, Melya, Mila ▲ , Molli, Molly ▲ and Myla ▲ . Other suggested similar baby names are Billa, Cilla, Dilla, Lilla ▼ , Milka, Mirla, Moll, Rilla ▼ , Willa ▼ and Zilla.
Milla /mil-la/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin derivation, and the meaning of the name Milla is helper to the priest. Milla is an alternate spelling of Camilla (Latin). Milla is also a form of Kamilla (Latin). Kreatif forms: Miela, Millu, Milma. Milla is pronounced similarly to Mala, Malea, Malia ▲ , Mally, Mela, Melia, Mella, Melli, Melly, Melya, Mila ▲ , Molli, Molly ▲ and Myla ▲ . Other suggested similar baby names are Billa, Cilla, Dilla, Lilla ▼ , Milka, Mirla, Moll, Rilla ▼ , Willa ▼ and Zilla.
Derivatives of Mila include the names Milah, Milaia, Milaka, Milia, Milla, Millah, and Myla. Mila is a popular baby name for girls, and it is also regarded as trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only very modest use. Slavonic origin, Czech and Slavic use: It is derived literally from the word mila which is of the meaning 'pleasant, dear'. It represents the transferred use of the vocabulary word as a given name. In addition, Mila is a contracted form (African, Czech, English, Polish, Russian, Slavic, Spanish, and Swahili) of Emilia.
The name Milla is of German origin, and it means Industrious . It's a name commonly given to girls. According to the 2009 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Milla is not a popular baby girl's name in Texas. Imagine that, only 15 babies in Texas have the same name as you in 2009. Across the entire United States a total of only 125 babies also bear the same first name during the same year.
Milla is an English, Finnish, German, Polish, and Scandinavian contraction of the name Camilla (English, Finnish, German, Italian, Scandinavian, and Spanish). Milla is also a variant transcription of Mila. Milla is an unusual baby name for girls. It is listed outside of the top 1000 names. 
Comments and insights on the name Milla: | Edit. I think Milla is a beautiful name. More so because it cannot me abbreviated as Mel.. There are beautiful names like Melania and Melanie, but they all end up as just Mel.. You can spell this name as MILLA or MILA. Personally, Mila looks mistakably like 'MY-LAH while Milla is more solid (plus I like the double'L's.
What does Mila mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Mila is of Russian origin. The meaning of Mila is dear one. It is also of Slavic origin, where its meaning is nickname for names beginning with Mila-.
Czechoslovakian Meaning: The name Mila is a Czechoslovakian baby name. In Czechoslovakian the meaning of the name Mila is: Industrious. Russian Meaning: The name Mila is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Mila is: People's love. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independenc