You will notice if you're infested with head lice because you may feel as if your skin is crawling. When you're infected with head lice, it is important to routinely clean items such as bedding, toys, towels, and hair brushes to prevent reinfection. Removing Lice from Hair Brushes and Combs. Fill a cooking pot with water and heat it on the stove until the water temperature reaches at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the water must be at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit to effectively kill lice and nits.
Submerge your recently used combs and brushes in the hot water. Soak your brushes and combs for up to 10 minutes (and no less than 5 minutes) in order to adequately exterminate the nits and lice. If you have brushes or combs that may be damaged by extremely hot water, you can use a phenol solution such as Lysol to clean your personal items. Soak your brushes and combs in Lysol for at least one hour. Removing Lice from Hair Brushes and Combs. Fill a cooking pot with water and heat it on the stove until the water temperature reaches at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the water must be at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit to effectively kill lice and nits.
1 Place your combs and brushes into a large casserole dish and then cover them with the hot water. 2  Combs and brushes will be safe for reuse as soon as 5 minutes but you can leave them in the water overnight. 3  Alcohol-Remove all hair from your brushes and combs. 4  Submerge combs and brushes in rubbing alcohol overnight. There is no need to buy new combs or brushes after a lice infestation as long as you treat them before reuse. There are several ways to make them safe again for reuse. You can choose which way works best for you and your family.
Combs and Brushes-- Family combs and brushes should be soaked for 15 minutes in very hot water. It might be a good time to get every member of the home their own comb and brush if they don't already have them. Tell your child not to share these items with others. It is VERY important to remove all of the eggs (nits) . Soak the lice comb for 15 minutes in hot ammonia water (1 tsp ammonia to 2 cups hot water). Or, boil the metal comb in plain water for 15 minutes.
Yes. Boiling water will kill lice and nits on a brush and comb. I would boil for 10 minutes but less time may be necessary to kill the lice and nits. You do not need to boil overnight. Lice and nits cannot survive in very high temperatures. Research has shown that lice and their eggs can survive freezing temperatures. 
Head lice survive less than one or two days if they fall off the scalp and cannot feed. Head lice eggs (nits) cannot hatch and usually die within a week if they do not remain under ideal conditions of heat and humidity similar to those found close to the human scalp. 1 The head lice may have become resistant to the treatment. 2  If the treatment used does not kill the head lice, your health care provider and pharmacist can help you be sure the treatment was used correctly and may recommend a completely different product if they think the head lice are resistant to the first treatment.
Answer Yes. Boiling water will kill lice and nits on a brush and comb. I would boil for 10 minutes but less time may be necessary to kill the lice and nits. You do not need t … o boil overnight. Lice and nits cannot survive in very high temperatures. Research has shown that lice and their eggs can survive freezing temperatures
If you choose to remove lice from household items, here are some tips: 1  To rid hair brushes, combs, barrettes, and other hair ornaments of lice, soak them in hot water [at least 130°F (54°C) ] for 5 to 10 minutes, soak them in isopropyl alcohol, or wash them with a shampoo that is used to treat head lice. 1 Dry-cleaning or storing clothing in a plastic bag for 2 weeks will also destroy lice. 2  These methods are the main treatment for a person who has body lice. 3  Vacuum carpets, upholstery, and mattresses to remove hairs that might have live eggs attached. 4  You do not need to fumigate the house with insecticide sprays.