How to get to Dreamworld. Australia's most popular theme parks, Dreamworld & WhiteWater World, are located in South East Queensland at the northern end of the Gold Coast, on the Pacific Hwy (M1) at Coomera, 17kms (20mins) north of Surfers Paradise and 48kms (40mins) south of Brisbane. From the Gold Coast Airport, 35 mins. Turn left onto the Gold Coast Highway, which becomes the Pacific Highway and then take the Coomera Exit that includes Dreamworld signage (Exit 54). Then simply follow the signs to Dreamworld through a few roundabouts.
Below is a map of DreamWorld 's park rides and facilities-click on the map image for a full size version map of Dreamworld and Whitewater World. Please be patient as it loads as the file size is fairly large. Map of Directions to Movie World: Below is a map of MovieWorld 's park rides and facilities. Click on the map image for a full-sized version; please be patient as the image loads as the file size is quite large.
Dreamworld is a theme park situated on the Gold Coast in Queensland. It is Australia's largest theme park with over 40 rides and attractions, including five roller coasters. Dreamworld is noted for being the location of the Australian Big Brother house since the program began in Australia in 2001. In December 2006, Dreamworld expanded its offerings by opening WhiteWater World next door. On several occasions during the year, Dreamworld remains open after dark
DreamWorld is located along the Pacific Motorway on the Northern end of the Gold Coast within the suburb of Coomera approximately a 25 minute drive from Surfers Paradise. MovieWorld is also located along the Pacific Motorway on the Gold Coast's Northern end, slightly South of Dreamworld in the suburb of Oxenford. Map of Directions to Movie World: Below is a map of MovieWorld 's park rides and facilities. Click on the map image for a full-sized version; please be patient as the image loads as the file size is quite large.
Dreamworld is conveniently located at Coomera on the Pacific Highway, in Queensland, Australia and WhiteWater World is right next door. Both parks are located in South East Queensland at the northern end of the Gold Coast, on the Pacific Hwy (M1) at Coomera, 17kms (20mins) north of Surfers Paradise, 40kms north of Coolangatta (40mins) and 48kms (40mins) south of Brisbane. CAR. ----. From Surfers Paradise, 20 mins.
Dreamworld is an official bus stop for services between Brisbane and the Gold Coast and is well serviced by Surfside Buslines and tour coach companies. Surfside has three theme park services all stopping at Dreamworld-routes 720, TX1, TX3. From the Gold Coast Airport, 35 mins. Turn left onto the Gold Coast Highway, which becomes the Pacific Highway and then take the Coomera Exit that includes Dreamworld signage (Exit 54). Then simply follow the signs to Dreamworld through a few roundabouts.
Dreamworld (GNIS FID: 281758) is a populated place LOCATED WITHIN the City of Sanford. In turn, the City of Sanford is located within Seminole County. Dreamworld is located at latitude 28.784 and longitude -81.276. The elevation of Dreamworld is 46 feet above mean sea level. Since Dreamworld is located within the City of Sanford, all of the census and demographic data for residents of Dreamworld are included as part of the information reported for City of Sanford in the Data tab above. In similar fashion, ALL OF THE NAVIGATION TABS ABOVE ARE FOR THE City of Sanford Community Profile
These lands have a collection of rides, animal exhibits, shows, food outlets and merchandise shops. Dreamworld is noted for being the location of the Australian Big Brother house since the program began in Australia in 2001. In December 2006, Dreamworld expanded its offerings by opening WhiteWater World next door. On several occasions during the year, Dreamworld remains open after dark