Definition. An agreement made between a country and a corporation based in a different country, in which the country offers incentives, such as reduced taxes and other  concessions , to the corporation in exchange for the corporation investing in that country. 
A seller concession involves the seller of a property offering a potential buyer an incentive to make purchasing the property more attractive financially. Make certain all seller concessions are written in the contract and agreed upon by both parties. In a buyer's market, seller concessions often reduce the overall purchase price of the property; in a seller's market, a buyer may ask for an increase in the purchase price to offset the cost of a requested seller concession.
(May 2013). A concession or concession as an agreement is a grant of rights, land or property by a government, local authority, corporation, individual or other legal entity. Public services such as water supply may be operated as a concession. A concession may include the right to use some existing infrastructure required to carry out a business (such as a water supply system in a city); in some cases, such as mining, it may involve merely the transfer of exclusive or non-exclusive easements.
In the case of a public service concession, a private company enters into an agreement with the government to have the exclusive right to operate, maintain and carry out investment in a public utility (such as a water privatisation) for a given number of years. A concession may include the right to use some existing infrastructure required to carry out a business (such as a water supply system in a city); in some cases, such as mining, it may involve merely the transfer of exclusive or non-exclusive easements.
A negotiated contract between a company and a government that gives the company the right to operate a specific business within the government's jurisdiction, subject to certain conditions. BREAKING DOWN 'Concession Agreement'. Concession agreements span the gamut, from mining concessions valued in the hundreds of millions, to a small food and beverage concession in a movie hall. The terms of a concession agreement also depend on its desirability
For example, a popular concession in a sports stadium may not offer much to the concessionaire in terms of incentives. On the other hand, a government that is looking to attract mining companies in an impoverished area may offer significant inducements, such as tax breaks and a lower royalty rate. BREAKING DOWN 'Concession Agreement'. Concession agreements span the gamut, from mining concessions valued in the hundreds of millions, to a small food and beverage concession in a movie hall. The terms of a concession agreement also depend on its desirability
Concession contracts are not contracts within the meaning of the Contract Disputes Act, and are not service or procurement contracts within the meaning of statutes, regulations or policies that apply only to federal service contracts or other types of federal procurement actions. Concession contracts will contain such terms and conditions as are required by this part or law and as are otherwise appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of this part and the 1998 Act.
A service concession arrangement is an arrangement whereby a government or other public sector body contracts with a private operator to develop (or upgrade), operate and maintain the grantor's infrastructure assets such as roads, bridges, tunnels, airports, energy distribution networks, prisons or hospitals. 
Definition of CONCESSION. 1. a: the act or an instance of conceding (as by granting something as a right, accepting something as true, or acknowledging defeat) b: the admitting of a point claimed in argument. 2. : something conceded or granted: a: acknowledgment, admission b: something done or agreed to usually grudgingly in order to reach an .... 