BMI is one way to estimate whether a person is overweight. Photo Credit Comstock/Stockbyte/Getty Images. BMI, or body mass index, is an estimated measure of the fat composition of the human body, or how proportionate a person's weight is to his height. BMI is a ratio of weight and height and is calculated using a formula. To calculate BMI, take an individual's weight in pounds and divide it by the square of her height in inches.
How BMI Is Calculated. BMI is a ratio of weight and height and is calculated using a formula. To calculate BMI, take an individual's weight in pounds and divide it by the square of her height in inches. Multiply that result by 703. So someone who weighs 140 pounds and is 5 feet 6 inches tall would have a BMI of about 22.6
BMI stands for body mass index. While BMI does not measure body fat directly, it corresponds pretty closely to direct measures of body fat. Therefore, BMI can be considered an alternative for direct measures of body fat. BMI is determined by a person's height and weight. 
The BMI is an attempt to quantify the amount of tissue mass (muscle, fat, and bone) in an individual, and then categorize that person as underweight, normal weight, overweight, or obese based on that value. The BMI may also be determined using a table or chart which displays BMI as a function of mass and height using contour lines or colors for different BMI categories, and may use two different units of measurement.
Body Mass Index (BMI) is an established measure utilized by physicians and health experts to determine weight status (i.e. underweight, overweight or within a healthy weight range). Use this calculator to find out what your BMI can tell you about your health and well-being. What BMI ranges mean. Experts generally consider a BMI below 20 to be underweight and a BMI of 20 to 25 to be healthy. BMIs of 25 to 30 are generally considered overweight, while a BMI over 30 is generally considered very overweight (obese).
The body mass index (BMI) or Quetelet index is a value derived from the mass (weight) and height of an individual. The BMI is defined as the body mass divided by the square of the body height, and is universally expressed in units of kg/m 2, resulting from mass in kilograms and height in metres. The BMI may also be determined using a table or chart which displays BMI as a function of mass and height using contour lines or colors for different BMI categories, and may use two different units of measurement.
The body mass index (BMI) is a special measurement used to determine whether your weight is healthy for your height. There are five classifications of BMI: Underweight (below 18.5), healthy (18.5-24.9), overweight (25.0-29.9), obese (30.0-39.9), and morbidly obese (more than 40). Your BMI is your height to your weight. Body Mass Index is measured on a number scale and being between 18.5 and 24.9 is considered to be a normal weight range. Anything below 18.4 is considered underweight and anything above 25 is considered obese.
Not necessarily. A normal BMI may mean that you are not classified as overweight or obese but does not mean that your body fat percentage is not within the range of overweight or obese. Other factors include if you smoke or drink, if you consume a diet high in fat and sugar, and if you are active or not. A Weight Watchers® answered. A normal body mass index (BMI) does not necessarily mean you're healthy. While the links between BMI and disease risk are clear, it is important to remember that it is only one of several disease risk factors.
Body mass index (BMI) is measure of body fat based on height and weight. The higher the BMI, the greater the risk of some diseases, including high blood pressure, coronary artery disease, stroke, osteoarthritis, some cancers, and type 2 diabetes. 1 A BMI between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight. 2  A BMI of 30 and above is considered obese. 3  It may overestimate body fat in athletes and others who have a muscular build. 4  It may underestimate body fat in older persons and others who have lost muscle mass.
Abbreviated BMI. BMI is a person's weight in kilograms (kg) divided by his or her height in meters squared. The National Institutes of Health (NIH) now defines normal weight, overweight, and obesity according to BMI rather than the traditional height/weight charts. Overweight is a BMI of 27.3 or more for women and 27.8 or more for men.