In-State tuition totals about $18,000 to complete a nurse practitioner program. Out-of-State tuition is even more expensive at $570 to $1300 per credit with an average of about $700 per credit. Paying out-of-state tuition a nurse practitioner student can expect to spend about $31,500 on their education. Online programs run somewhere in between costing $400-$800 per credit ultimately averaging about $22,500 for a nurse practitioner degree. Private universities cost anywhere from $500 to $1,500 per credit. If you attend one of these institutions you can expect to pay about $45,000 or more for your NP program.
A: To become a nurse practitioner at the quickest, you can take up the certificate of nursing which is a one year program and the shortest to get nursing education. Certificate in nursing allows students to be able to practice and have introductory level knowledge and skills in the field of nursing. A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program.
A: The answer to the question on how to become a nurse practitioner in 2 years needs explanation. Students can complete their certification in Nursing in 2 years from a community college and 4 years from a state school. However, if you are looking to complete this qualification in two years for any number of reasons, there is an option of distance learning programs. A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program.
NP Programs are pricey. Most nurse practitioner programs require students to complete 30-54 credits (an average of about 45) depending on program and specialty. In-State tuition can cost anywhere from $225 to $665 per credit with an average of around $400 a credit for schools we surveyed. Online programs run somewhere in between costing $400-$800 per credit ultimately averaging about $22,500 for a nurse practitioner degree. Private universities cost anywhere from $500 to $1,500 per credit. If you attend one of these institutions you can expect to pay about $45,000 or more for your NP program.
A: In order to become a nurse practitioner, one must first acquire a nursing degree. You can opt for ADN, LPN or bachelor's degree in nursing (BSN) from a state approved school. After completing a nursing program, candidates must take the licensing examination in their state. A: In order to become a nurse, you must complete a 2 year associate's or 4 years bachelor's degree program in nursing. Upon graduation, you should obtain an RN certification and pursue a specialization through an accredited MSN degree program.
Essential Information. Nurse practitioners are responsible for taking care of patients in a variety of specialized settings. Nurse practitioners must generally obtain at least a master's degree, and must be both nationally registered nurses and certified nurse practitioners. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a nurse practitioner. Get an overview of nurse practitioner educational requirements, licensure and job duties to see if this is the right career for you.
Nurse practitioner tuition at a state university averages about $200 per credit for state residents and jumps to $500 per credit for out-of-state students. Total nurse practitioner tuition for a 60-credit program would then be $12,000 for in-state students and $30,000 for out-of-state students. If your heart is set on a private university, be aware that these schools charge as much as $1,000 per credit – amounting to $60,000 for total nurse practitioner tuition. 
The salary of a nurse practitioner depends on the area of specialization, location, years of experience, level of education, and size of company. Currently, the annual average earning for a nurse practitioner in the U.S. is $106,255. 
Nurse practitioners (NPs) have provided health care services to patients for more than 40 years. The nurse practitioner role had its inception in the mid-1960s in response to a nationwide shortage of physicians. 
The average annual salary of a nurse practitioner is $97,990 according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics as of May 2014. Most earn between $82,720 and $113,470, though the top 10% of wage earners made around $131,050. Nurse practitioner students then must complete an additional two to three full-time years of study to earn a master’s degree in nursing (MSN) or Doctorate of Nursing Practice (DNP).