In gratitude, the school was renamed for the first United States President. In 1865, General Robert E. Lee served as president of the college until his death in 1870, prompting the college to be renamed as Washington and Lee University. Washington and Lee is the ninth oldest institution of higher learning in the United States and the second oldest in Virginia. The University consists of three academic units: The College; the Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics; and the School of Law. Lee died on October 12, 1870, after just five years as Washington College president. The college's name was almost immediately changed to Washington and Lee University, linking Lee's name with Washington's.
Summary. University of Washington is a public institution that was founded in 1861. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 30,672, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 703 acres. It utilizes a quarter-based academic calendar. University of Washington's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 52.
With 45,943 students, University of Washington-Seattle Campus is the largest music school in the state of Washington. University of Washington-Seattle Campus is a social media-savvy school with not only a website, but also a Facebook page, Twitter account and YouTube channel. University of Washington-Seattle Campus has 132,362 likes on Facebook, 9,588 followers on Twitter and 533 subscribers on YouTube
Washington University in St. Louis is a private institution that was founded in 1853. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 7,401, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 169 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Washington University in St. Louis's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 15. Its tuition and fees are $48,093 (2015-16). When applying to Washington University in St. Louis, it's important to note the application deadline is January 15, and the early decision deadline is November 15. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due January 15. The application fee at Washington University in St. Louis is $75.
School mission and unique qualities (as provided by the school): Washington University in St. Louis is a research university that offers a unique environment for undergraduate students to learn and grow. When applying to Washington University in St. Louis, it's important to note the application deadline is January 15, and the early decision deadline is November 15. Scores for either the ACT or SAT test are due January 15. The application fee at Washington University in St. Louis is $75.
Gus, full name Augustus, is the Official Spokesgoose of Washington College and a direct descendant of a goose who befriended George Washington. He loves all things Washington College from sporting events to theater performances, from Birthday Ball to Commencement, from the Literary House to the waterfront. 
5 College Sophomore. Overall Experience: UW is a uniquely beautiful place. There's no place in the world where I'd rather be. It's the perfect harmony of urban and nature. My school offers rigorous academics, the bustling hub of Seattle, the stunning Cascades, and Lakes Union and Washington. Overall Experience: University of Washington is a highly sort after University that wants quality work from their students. It 's a fun place but you have to work hard. The staff is amazing and does everything to support us graduate students with balancing a full time job and graduate school.
Washington University in St. Louis, founded in 1853, is a private, comprehensive institution. One of the distinguishing features of the university is the ability to study across disciplines and take advantage of the variety of courses offered by a major research university. 
This is indicated by the fact that University of Washington-Seattle Campus's site has a Compete Rank of 1,762, the highest Compete Rank of music school websites in Washington. University of Washington-Seattle Campus is a social media-savvy school with not only a website, but also a Facebook page, Twitter account and YouTube channel.