Strasburg continues strong stretch with win. Nationals right-hander Stephen Strasburg, a DraftKings Daily Pick, won after allowing six hits and one walk with seven strikeouts in six scoreless innings against the Braves on Thursday. View More Fantasy News.
Synopsis. Stephen Strasburg is a right-handed pitcher born in San Diego, California. He is considered one of the greatest pitching prospects in baseball history, and his selection as first pick by the Washington Nationals in 2009 Major League's Baseball draft was a media event. In 2009, the Washington Nationals selected Stephen Strasburg with the first pick in the Major League Baseball draft. A few months later, the pitcher signed a four-year, $15.1 million contract — the largest rookie contract in major league history.
Nats 3-0 over Braves: Strasburg finishes strong. 11. by Patrick Reddington Federal Baseball Oct 1, 2015, 9:58p. Stephen Strasburg finished strong with six scoreless innings on the mound against Atlanta and the Washington Nationals hung on for a 3-0 win over the Braves in Turner Field. 
Comment. Stephen Strasburg, like his former college teammate Addison Reed, is giving up smokeless tobacco following the death of Hall of Famer Tony Gwynn. Stephen Strasburg said he is giving up smokeless tobacco following the death of his college coach Tony Gwynn. The Washington Nationals ace, who played for Gwynn at San Diego State, told MLB.com he will quit because of his young daughter. I think it's a disgusting habit, looking back on it, Strasburg said. 
stephen strasburg. Follow stephen strasburg to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow stephen strasburg to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. You're now following stephen strasburg i
26. ——— Player Notes. Nick Cafardo of the Boston Globe reports that there's been a lot of buzz that the Nationals could make Stephen Strasburg available for trade this winter. Advice: It's interesting especially since the Nats are already poised to lose Jordan Zimmermann and Doug Fister via free agency this offseason. 
Early Life. Professional baseball player. Born July 20, 1988 in San Diego, California. Stephen Strasburg's mother, Kathleen Swett, was a dietician, and his father, Jim Strasburg, was a real estate developer. Strasburg fell in love with baseball at a very young age. In 2009, the Washington Nationals selected Stephen Strasburg with the first pick in the Major League Baseball draft. A few months later, the pitcher signed a four-year, $15.1 million contract — the largest rookie contract in major league history.
Nationals SP Stephen Strasburg earns 11th win of the season. by RotoWire Staff | RotoWire. Washington Nationals starting pitcher Stephen Strasburg (11-7) finished his season with six sharp innings in Atlanta on Thursday, striking out seven while allowing one walk, six hits and no runs in a winning effort. 
Strasburg finishes strong in 2015. Nationals right-hander Stephen Strasburg finished the 2015 regular season with a 11-7 record, a 3.46 ERA, a 1.11 WHIP and 155 strikeouts across 127 1/3 innings. Nationals right-hander Stephen Strasburg, a DraftKings Daily Pick, won after allowing six hits and one walk with seven strikeouts in six scoreless innings against the Braves on Thursday. View More Fantasy News.