6 months of age is a good time to expect any puppy to be fully house trained. A lot of development occurs after birth with vital organs in a dog. Puppies bladder and bowel are not fully developed till 12 weeks of age, they have no control. I just got a 16 week old rat terrior puppy, I adore him, but house training has prooved to be quite the task.
It typically takes 4-6 months for a puppy to be fully house trained, but some puppies may take up to a year. Size can be a predictor. For instance, smaller breeds have smaller bladders and higher metabolisms and require more frequent trips outside. Your puppy's previous living conditions are another predictor. If your puppy is older than 12 weeks when you bring him home and he’s been eliminating in a cage (and possibly eating his waste), house training may take longer. You will have to reshape the dog ’s behavior -- with encouragement and reward.
Most puppies have a good understanding of where they're supposed to potty after about a month of house-training. By the time she is 4 months old, your pup knows to wait for you to take her outside, and she might understand ways to tell you she has to go, such as barking or scratching at the door. Age to Start. Most puppies aren't able to control when they go until they are at least 12 weeks old. After she's about 6 weeks old, you can start taking her outside at least every hour to give her the chance to go. While this can cut down on indoor accidents, she won't be ready for true house-training until 12 weeks.
When to Begin House Training Puppy. Experts recommend that you begin house training your puppy when he is between 12 weeks and 16 weeks old. At that point, he has enough control of his bladder and bowel movements to learn to hold it. If your puppy is older than 12 weeks when you bring him home and he’s been eliminating in a cage (and possibly eating his waste), house training may take longer. You will have to reshape the dog ’s behavior -- with encouragement and reward.
Best Answer: Forget pads they just teach your dog your house is a toilet. The first thing to remember about house training a puppy is there ability to hold themselves is limited. A rule of thumb is they can hold it usually 1 hour for each month of age. 2 months old = 2 hours, 3 months old = 3 hours, etc. When your puppy wakes up (morning, nap, whatever) the pup has to go, right then! I just got a 16 week old rat terrior puppy, I adore him, but house training has prooved to be quite the task.
A dog is not really fully house trained until he can comfortably wait several hours between wees, understands that the place to pee is always outside, and will try his best not to pee in the house if your are late home for some reason. This point is usually reached for most puppies at around six months old. 
Potty Pro. Many dogs are fully house-trained by 6 months old, but don't be discouraged if your pooch has accidents through 12 months old. Every dog is different, and some take a bit longer to make it to professional potty level. Age to Start. Most puppies aren't able to control when they go until they are at least 12 weeks old. After she's about 6 weeks old, you can start taking her outside at least every hour to give her the chance to go. While this can cut down on indoor accidents, she won't be ready for true house-training until 12 weeks.