1 Lichen sclerosus is a condition of the vulva which causes itching and soreness and is more often seen in women with immune conditions such as thyroid disorders or diabetes. 2  A cancer of the vulval skin is an uncommon cause. 3  Usually in these cases a small lump or nodule is present. 4  Unknown causes. 1 Any cause of a generalised body itch may also cause itching of the vulva. 2  For example, a generalised body itch may be a side-effect of some medicines or due to some blood disorders, thyroid problems or kidney or liver disease.
Vulval itching is a symptom resulting from various conditions that irritate or infect the vulva, which is the external genital organ of a female. Vulval itching is a common feminine problem.To understands what vulval itching is, we need to define first what vulva is. Vulva is the external part of a woman's genital organ and more often than not, it is mistaken for a vagina.
Pruritus vulvae means itching of the vulva. The vulva is the area of skin just outside the vagina. Most women experience a slight vulval itch now and again. However, pruritus vulvae means the itch is persistent, and causes distress. The itch may be particularly bad at night and may disturb your sleep. 1 Any cause of a generalised body itch may also cause itching of the vulva. 2  For example, a generalised body itch may be a side-effect of some medicines or due to some blood disorders, thyroid problems or kidney or liver disease.
The vulva is the tissue that surrounds the vagina, which consists of the labia majora and minora (the outer and inner “lips”) and the clitoris. Itching of the vulva can result from irritation, allergy, inflammation, infection or cancer. Vulva itch is unlikely to be part of a condition that requires emergent treatment; however, it can have several causes, some of which are easily treated and others that can ultimately lead to serious complications. If you have vulva itch that is persistent or causes you concern, seek prompt medical care.
Vulva itch: Introduction. Vulval itch is the itching of the external vulva or external public region in women. It needs to be distinguished from vaginal itching, affecting the internal vagina, although the distinction is sometimes not clear. Vaginal or vulval itching needs prompt professional medical diagnosis.... more ».
There are several causes of vaginal itching, burning and irritation, including: 1  Bacterial vaginosis. 2  It is normal to have a healthy balance of bacteria in the vagina. 3  But the wrong balance of bacteria growing there can lead to an infection. 
In this case, avoiding exposure to the irritant or allergen may be all that is needed for the itching to resolve. Sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes or trichomoniasis, can cause vulva itch, as can other infections, such as yeast infections and bacterial vaginosis. Pubic lice, also called “crabs,” is a sexually transmitted infestation that typically causes itching. Vulva itch is unlikely to be part of a condition that requires emergent treatment; however, it can have several causes, some of which are easily treated and others that can ultimately lead to serious complications. If you have vulva itch that is persistent or causes you concern, seek prompt medical care.
Although vaginal itching is the hallmark of yeast infections and other vaginal infections (including sexually transmitted diseases [ STDs ]), itching in the vagina and vulvar areas has multiple causes. 
Vaginal itching is an uncomfortable and sometimes painful symptom that is often caused by irritating substances, treatable and preventable infections, or menopause. In rare cases, itching may occur due to stress or can be a sign of vulvar cancer. Itching in the vagina and the surrounding area, which is called the vulva, may be caused by a minor issue, but it may also indicate a more serious problem that needs to be treated. Most commonly, itching is caused by some type of irritant or by an infection.
Causes of Vaginal Itching. Itching in the vagina and the surrounding area, which is called the vulva, may be caused by a minor issue, but it may also indicate a more serious problem that needs to be treated. Most commonly, itching is caused by some type of irritant or by an infection. In rare cases, it may be the result of cancer