So, basically frugality is the thrifty and efficient use of resources, and a frugal person is a person characterized by thrifty and efficient use of resources.rugality for you might look different, but as long as you’re making efficient use of your resources, you are a frugal person. So to the people on the news, who turn their noses up at frugality, I say it’s your loss. Being frugal is a good thing.
Frugality is living below your means. Frugality is walking or biking to grocery stores instead of driving. Frugality is growing your own vegetables and herbs. Frugality is buying long lasting memories and experiences instead of depreciating things. Frugality is driving the car for many years instead of changing the car every other year.rugality is cooking your own food and being appreciative of where your food comes from. Frugality is writing on both size of paper. Frugality is knowing where and when to spend money to receive greatest values. Frugality is recycling and using compost. Frugality is turning off lights when not needed.
Frugality is cooking your own food and being appreciative of where your food comes from. Frugality is writing on both size of paper. Frugality is knowing where and when to spend money to receive greatest values. Frugality is recycling and using compost. Frugality is turning off lights when not needed. Frugality is wearing a sweater in wintertime instead of turning up the thermostat. Frugality is using a drying rack instead of using a dryer for drying clothes. Frugality is not caring what other people think about you.
Instead of looking for external modes of affirmation of personal worth, frugality requires you to look internally. By making the decision to not spend your money on stuff to make you feel better, you can start spending time developing habits and traits that will make you a better man.
Frugality is a quality of spending money very carefully and in limited amounts. This decision can be made for various reasons. Some are: to save money, make costs smaller and get the most possible value from purchases.
Frugality is the quality of being frugal, sparing, thrifty, prudent or economical in the consumption of consumable resources such as food, time or money, and avoiding waste, lavishness or extravagance. 
True frugality isn’t complicated… once again, the key is simply finding the balance that is right for you and the way you want to live… only this time the balance is about spending, not spending, and saving. True frugality feels amazingly empowering.hen frugality is based on your own values and what YOU want out of life, it can only be a positive influence.
5. Being cheap is about spending less; being frugal is about prioritizing your spending so that you can have more of the things you really care about. Those who are cheap are often afraid to spend money. They are willing to sacrifice quality, value and time in order to cash in on some short-term savings.
Use frugal in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. A couple being frugal by clipping coupons. A couple being frugal by clipping coupons. The definition of frugal is not spending a lot of money and not being wasteful. An example of frugal is someone who uses coupons to buy groceries