Typhoid fever is very rare in the United States (U.S.) and other areas of the world that have good water and sewage (waste) systems. However, it is a problem in parts of the world that do not have such systems. To get the best possible protection against typhoid, you should complete the vaccine dosing schedule (all 4 doses of the vaccine) at least 1 week before travel to areas where you may be exposed to typhoid.
Typhoid fever is a life-threatening illness caused by the bacterium Salmonella Typhi. In the United States, it is estimated that approximately 5,700 cases occur annually. Most cases (up to 75%) are acquired while traveling internationally. 
Typhoid vaccine taken by mouth helps prevent typhoid fever, but does not provide 100% protection. Therefore, it is very important to avoid infected persons and food and water that may be infected, even if you have taken the vaccine. To get the best possible protection against typhoid, you should complete the vaccine dosing schedule (all 4 doses of the vaccine) at least 1 week before travel to areas where you may be exposed to typhoid.
Vivotif Package Insert USA – Updated September 2013 – Increase of Upper Specification Limit Vivotif ® Typhoid Vaccine Live Oral Ty21a. Vivotif (Typhoid Vaccine Live Oral Ty21a) is a live attenuated vaccine for oral administration only. The vaccine contains the attenuated strain Salmonella typhi Ty21a (1,2). Vivotif is manufactured by the Crucell Switzerland LTD. 
The typhoid oral vaccine is given in a series of 4 capsules that are taken 1 per day on alternating days (days 1, 3, 5, and 7). On this alternating-day schedule, you will take 1 capsule every 48 hours for 7 days. You must take each capsule according to the recommended schedule for this vaccine to be effective. Typhoid vaccine should not be used in a person who is a typhoid carrier. You should not receive this vaccine if you have ever had an allergic reaction to typhoid vaccine in the past, or if you have: 1  fever with any type of infection or illness; 2  a weak immune system caused by disease such as HIV/AIDS or cancer; or.
Typhoid Vaccine: Injection. The typhoid injection is given only once, at least two weeks before travel. The injection lasts only two years compared with the five years of protection offered by the oral typhoid vaccine. The oral typhoid vaccine is administered four times, two days apart, with the last dose taken at least one week before travel. This vaccine lasts for up to five years, after which a booster dose is given for people who plan to continue their travels or who are otherwise considered at risk for getting typhoid fever
Remember that you will need to complete your vaccination at least 1 week before you travel so that the vaccine has time to take effect. Typhoid vaccines lose effectiveness after several years; if you were vaccinated in the past, check with your doctor to see if it is time for a booster vaccination. If you are traveling to a country where typhoid (Salmonella serotype Typhi) is common, you should consider being vaccinated against typhoid. Visit a doctor or travel clinic to discuss your vaccination options
Descriptions. Typhoid fever is a serious disease that can cause death. It is caused by a germ called Salmonella typhi, and is spread most often through infected food or water. Typhoid may also be spread by close person-to-person contact with infected persons (such as occurs with persons living in the same household). To get the best possible protection against typhoid, you should complete the vaccine dosing schedule (all 4 doses of the vaccine) at least 1 week before travel to areas where you may be exposed to typhoid.