The supplier supplies the products and the buyer purchases these products for business purposes according to the terms agreed under the product supply agreement. The agreement also provides the consequences that the parties might face in the event of breach.
Definition. Confidence in a supplier's ability to deliver a good or service that will satisfy the customer's needs. Achievable through interactive relationship between the customer and the supplier, it aims at ensuring the product's ' fit ' to the customer's requirements with little or no adjustment or inspection.
A product supply agreement is an agreement between a supplier and a buyer for supply and purchase of products. The agreement specifies the terms upon which the parties agree to supply and purchase products from each other. The agreement makes the buyer and seller understand their responsibilities and obligations under the agreement.
When you negotiate services with a client or supplier, the process can take time and culminate in a contract that spells out the obligations and requirements of all signatories.
Product Supply Agreement Law & Legal Definition. . A product supply agreement is an agreement between a supplier and a buyer for supply and purchase of products. The agreement specifies the terms upon which the parties agree to supply and purchase products from each other. The agreement makes the buyer and seller understand their responsibilities and obligations under the agreement.
1 verb If you supply someone with something that they want or need, you give them a quantity of it. ...an agreement not to produce or supply chemical weapons. V n. ...a pipeline which will supply the major Greek cities with Russian natural gas. V n with n. ...the blood vessels supplying oxygen to the brain.
Any time a CMO/Contractor is used there should be a Quality Agreement. Items to address in a Quality Agreement include all aspects of a project that affect the identity, quality, safety, potency, and purity of a product. Additionally, include aspects that may affect the compliance status of either the Contractor or Client.