Post-Impressionism (also spelled Postimpressionism) is a predominantly French art movement that developed roughly between 1886 and 1905; from the last Impressionist exhibition to the birth of Fauvism. The movement was led by Paul Cezanne, Cézanne Paul, Gauguin vincent Van, gogh And Georges. Seurat the Term-Post impressionism was coined by The british artist and art Critic Roger, fry in, 1910 to describe the development Of french art Since. manet
Impressionism. a movement in the late 19th century in French painting, characterized by the goal of reproducing an impression of a subject by use of reflected light and color and the blurring of outlines. — Impressionist, n ., adj. — Impressionistic, adj. impressionism. 1. A musical technique or movement that shared the aim of impressionism in painting, that is, to capture and convey an impression of changing reality or fleeting mood. The main exponent of this style was the French composer, Claude Debussy (1862–1918).
10 most extreme places on Earth. Impressionism is a term that was first used to describe visual art in the late 19th century that emphasized the conveyance of an overall impression of a particular scene, usually outdoors, using primary colors and short brushstrokes to represent the appearance of reflected light. 
167 pages on this wiki. Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists. Their independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s, in spite of harsh opposition from the conventional art community in France
Impressionism is a style of painting which began in France in the late 19th century. Impressionist painting shows life-like subjects painted in a broad, rapid style, with brushstrokes that are easily seen and colours that are often bright. Claude Monet, Impression, Sunrise, (1872), oil on canvas, Musee Musée. Marmottan impressionism is a style of painting which began In france in the late 19th. Century impressionist painting shows-life like subjects painted in a, broad rapid, style with brushstrokes that are easily seen and colours that are often. bright
Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. The term Impressionism has also been used to describe works of literature in which a few select details suffice to convey the sensory impressions of an incident or scene. Impressionist literature is closely related to Symbolism, with its major exemplars being Baudelaire, Mallarme, Mallarmé, rimbaud And. verlaine
Impressionism is a 19th century artistic movement that swept much of the painting and sculpture styles of the period. It was not just a passing fad but has defined an entirely modern way of expressing one’s artistry that eventually rubbed off in other art forms like literature and photography. 
Musical Impressionism is the name given to a movement in European classical music that arose in the late 19th century and continued into the middle of the 20th century. Originating in France, musical Impressionism is characterized by suggestion and atmosphere, and eschews the emotional excesses of the Romantic era. The term Impressionism has also been used to describe works of literature in which a few select details suffice to convey the sensory impressions of an incident or scene. Impressionist literature is closely related to Symbolism, with its major exemplars being Baudelaire, Mallarme, Mallarmé, rimbaud And. verlaine
Impressionism covers approximately two decades, from the late 1860s through the 1880s. The term impressionist was first used by French art critic Louis Leroy in 1874 based on Monet's painting Impression, Sunrise. Leroy found the term fitting to describe the loose, undefined and unfinished style that Monet and several other artists applied to their paintings. Merely think, here is a little square of blue, here an oblong of pink, here a streak of yellow, and paint it just as it looks to you.. Claude Monet. In the Beginning. The impressionist art movement originated in France in the last quarter of the 19th century as a reaction against traditional art and its strict rules.