1 If your dog's labor occurs for 2 hours with no delivery. 2  If there is a 4 hour window since the last pup was born and before more are delivered. 3  If the delivery of pups doesn't commence after she showed the normal greenish-black discharge in the beginning of the birthing process. 4  If her pregnancy has past 65 days. 
A dog's stomach will work on breaking down food for roughly eight hours before passing it into the small intestine. End of the Line The broken-down food will remain in the small intestine for up to about two days, depending on how difficult it is to break down further. Simple food, such as corn, will pass in a matter of a few hours, but bone or more complex material takes quite a bit longer.
Varying Factors. Your dog's digestion rate isn't affected by his size as much as by other factors, including the type of food you give him, the amount of exercise he gets, the amount of water he drinks and more. For example, an average dog -- big or small -- takes between four and six hours to digest canned wet food. Because your small dog eats an amount of food proportionate to his size, his body breaks down food in the same manner as a big dog's would. The time it takes for food to digest in your small dog is essentially the same as in a dog twice his size or larger.
Similarly, the time that it will take for your dog to digest his food also depends upon what type of food he eats. Generally speaking, raw food and canned food will move through his system faster than dry food; it typically takes between 4 and 6 hours for a dog to process a meal's worth of canned food. On the other hand, it may take as many as 8 to 10 hours for the same dog to process dry food completely.
Also dog digestion enzymes in the stomach are different from yours to be able to function in this acid. The canine digestive tract is much shorter (20-80 cm compared to 1.5 m for you) so the food stays for a much shorter time in your dog's system. Average passing time is only 24-48 hours, whereas it can take you up to three days. The faster dog digestion also contributes to his resistance to bacteria. Dog digestion time. A question often asked is how long does it take for a dog to digest his meal. Probably this information is wanted to determine when it's time to let the dog out for a sanitary walk or it's just curiosity. There is no simple answer though as passage time depends on several factors.
Best Answer: The whole digestion process takes approx. 24 hours, the same as a human. We excrete any *unused* food the day after it is eaten. Same with a canine. It is impossible for the whole digestion process to take only a couple of hours, so he is pooping out what his body didn't use from yesterdays meals. Source(s): Julie D. · 7 years ago
There are a number of formulas for doing this. Ultimately, I suppose it depends on how picky and observant your dog is. You may want to start with just adding in around 10 percent of the new food the first couple of days. Then try going up to 25 percent of the new food (and 75 percent of the old). 
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. 
A. This is a very interesting question. There are several factors that determine how long it takes for food to pass through your digestive system. To start, the type of food matters. Some foods are more complex, requiring our body to work harder and to take more time to break them down and digest them. 