Types of Home Alarm Systems. Hardwired systems have sensors physically wired into the walls at entry points and throughout your home that are wired into a central control station. Wireless systems use wireless sensors that send signals back to the control panel. With the rise in home burglaries, installing a home alarm or security system might give you peace of mind. Though you might be intimidated by the cost of installing a home security system, there are actually different types of systems at many different price points.
The average cost of home security varies depending on your provider. ADT Security offers prices starting as low as $36.99 per month. To learn more about the average cost of home security and ADT pricing click here. 
The cost of your system is also affected by the number and sophistication of your components. Home alarm systems can have central control panels, keypads, sensors, and alarms. There are a variety of prices depending on the complexity and quality of these components and whether or not they are wired or wireless. With the rise in home burglaries, installing a home alarm or security system might give you peace of mind. Though you might be intimidated by the cost of installing a home security system, there are actually different types of systems at many different price points.
1 A basic, wired, install-it-yourself home security system starts around $50-$300, depending on the number and type of sensors and controls. Discounts: 1  Many cities or counties require an annual alarm permit with a minimal fee of $5-$50. 2  Some also charge service fees for false alarms; usually the first incident or two is free, and then the cost can be $10-$200 or more for each false alarm, depending on how many occur.
At this point the cost of a security system doesn't vary much between hardwired and wireless options. Home security systems carry monthly monitoring fees which are usually locked in for three to five year contracts. Equipment warranties can add a few dollars per month. 1 $99 installation, $35.99 per month for ADT security system through Security Choice..  2  ADT Honeywell Lync system with door and window and motion detectors. 3  $99.00 installation and $35.99 a month..  4 We got our system installed for $99.
1 Most security services had a contract to sign for 3 years for the cost of the security system. 2  I chose one that gave of a rate of $27/mo. 3  We got the equipment for free from a local company due to their low overhead..  4 First and last month fees paid ahead. 5  $29.95/mo all security features were free ($295 value). 1 $99 installation, $35.99 per month for ADT security system through Security Choice..  2  ADT Honeywell Lync system with door and window and motion detectors. 3  $99.00 installation and $35.99 a month..  4 We got our system installed for $99.
After buying the security system equipment, you'll have to pay for monthly monitoring, which can run from $15 to $100, but the average price is $30. Most home security systems require one to three-year contracts, although some companies, like SimpliSafe, don't require any. You can buy a gun (not necessarily a good one) for less than $100, but it's more likely you'll shell out several hundred dollars. The average annual cost of a large dog just in the first year alone is $1,843, according to the animal welfare organization ASPCA.
Home Security Cost. 1  A basic, wired, install-it-yourself home security system starts around $50-$300, depending on the number and type of sensors and controls. Discounts: 1  Many cities or counties require an annual alarm permit with a minimal fee of $5-$50. 2  Some also charge service fees for false alarms; usually the first incident or two is free, and then the cost can be $10-$200 or more for each false alarm, depending on how many occur.