Now, Chipotle has added non-GMO to its “Food with Integrity” mission. “We want to buy the very best ingredients from the most sustainable sources to serve to our customers, and moving away from GMOs is a crucial step in that process,” Brau says. Ken Roseboro Ken is editor of The Organic & Non-GMO Report. Now Chipotle is working with McKaskle to expand his production to supply 800,000 pounds of organic rice to 14 Chipotle restaurants in the Kansas City, MO area. McKaskle aims to supply organic rice to as many as 75 Chipotle restaurants in the next two to five years.
Organic Fast Food is Good for the People. This Food with Integrity campaign is not just good for the animals and the environment. Organic fast food is also very good for the farmers. Chipotle has declared time and time again that they want to focus on giving more opportunities for local farmers. A good 35% of all their produce comes from local farms and ranches. Chipotle’s Organic Fast Food Campaign. Chipotle has declared that all of the animals they use are raised responsibly and fall under animal rights and conservation laws, they are free from chemical alterations and antibiotics, and they are free from added hormones.
Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter. After disclosing last year on its website which of the Chipotle menu items contained genetically modified ingredients, the restaurant chain is making good on its promise to go GMO-free. 
Not everything in Chipotle is 100% organic. They are still struggling to get the beans to be organically raised. At least 40% of all the beans in Chipotle Mexican Grill are organic beans and about 5% come from conservation tilling methods. Chipotle’s Organic Fast Food Campaign. Chipotle has declared that all of the animals they use are raised responsibly and fall under animal rights and conservation laws, they are free from chemical alterations and antibiotics, and they are free from added hormones.
The company has released a mission statement called Food with Integrity, which highlights its efforts in using organic ingredients, and serves more naturally raised meat than any other restaurant chain. Chipotle is one of the first chains of fast casual dining establishments. Founded by Steve Ells in 1993, Chipotle had 16 restaurants (all in Colorado) when McDonald's Corporation became a major investor in 1998. By the time McDonald's fully divested itself from Chipotle in 2006, the chain had grown to over 500 locations. With more than 1700 locations, Chipotle had a net income in 2013 of US$327.4 million and a staff of more than 45,000 employees as reported in a 2015 CNN Money syndicated report via WTVR
Chipotle is also sourcing organic white and brown rice from McKaskle Family Farm in southern Missouri. Owner Steve McKaskle, who is the only producer of organic rice in Missouri, has been supplying rice to Chipotle restaurants in Little Rock, Arkansas and Memphis, Tennessee for more than a year. Now Chipotle is working with McKaskle to expand his production to supply 800,000 pounds of organic rice to 14 Chipotle restaurants in the Kansas City, MO area. McKaskle aims to supply organic rice to as many as 75 Chipotle restaurants in the next two to five years.
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Inc. (/tʃɨˈpoʊtleɪ/) is a chain of restaurants in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, and France, specializing in Mission burritos and tacos. Chipotle is one of the first chains of fast casual dining establishments. Founded by Steve Ells in 1993, Chipotle had 16 restaurants (all in Colorado) when McDonald's Corporation became a major investor in 1998.
SustainableBusiness.com News. Chipotle Mexican Grill (NYSE:CMG), a pioneer in using organic produce in fast food, served 10 million pounds of locally grown vegetables last year. That's double the 5 million pounds it sourced in 2009, when Chipotle committed to buying more ingredients from local, family-owned farms within 350 miles of its restaurants. 
Image from: Chipotle.com Chipotle Mexican Grill is not your typical fast food chain. With organic ingredients and their “Food with Integrity” mission, you’ll be hard pressed to find a dollar menu at this fast and casual restaurant. As far as fast-food chains go,
Chipotle. Chipotle Mexican Grill was started in Denver in 1993 by Steve Ells and is known for its guacamole and burritos — its large (organic) burritos. The folks at Chipotle believe food should come packed with integrity. That means free range meats that are mostly antibiotic-free and vegetarian-fed. 