The driving distance between Miami, FL and Naples, FL is 125 miles. The driving time would be approximately 2 hours if you were to drive non-stop in good conditions. (The driv … ing time does not take into consideration conditions such as weather, road work and rush hour traffic in urban areas.) It is 123.60 miles according to MapQuest. 1 person found this useful.
1 Driving from Miami to Naples. 2  Distance: 110 miles. 3  Driving Time: 2 hours, 10 minutes. 4  The west coast of Florida brings you into the lap of luxury. 5  Naples' opulent relaxation is a great way to escape the hustle and bustle of life in Miami, especially during the off-season when crowds are light. 1 Driving from Miami to Key West. 2  Distance: 160 miles. 3  Driving Time: 3 hours, 30 minutes. 4  The slow drive will cause this 160 mile trip to take you up to four hours, but the scenic drive is part of the pleasure of the Keys!
How long does it take to drive from Miami Airport to Naples Florida? According to google maps, there are three possible routes and the time varies between 2 hours 8 minutes and 2 hours 15 minutes. The driving time would be approximately 2 hours if you were to drive non-stop in good conditions. (The driv … ing time does not take into consideration conditions such as weather, road work and rush hour traffic in urban areas.) It is 123.60 miles according to MapQuest. 1 person found this useful.
How long does it take to drive from Venice Florida to Miami Florida?   MapQuest gives the estimated driving time as 3 hours and 26 minutes. The driving time would be approximately 2 hours if you were to drive non-stop in good conditions. (The driv … ing time does not take into consideration conditions such as weather, road work and rush hour traffic in urban areas.) It is 123.60 miles according to MapQuest. 1 person found this useful.
Driving distance from Miami, FL to Naples, FL. The total driving distance from Miami, FL to Naples, FL is 125 miles or 201 kilometers. Your trip begins in Miami, Florida. It ends in Naples, Florida. 
The total driving time is 1 hour, 52 minutes. Your trip begins in Miami, Florida. It ends in Naples, Florida. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from Miami, FL to Naples, FL. You can also calculate the cost to drive from Miami, FL to Naples, FL based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. If you're meeting a friend, you might be interested in finding the city that is halfway between Miami, FL and Naples, FL. 
Our family is considering a vacation where we fly into Miami, drive to Naples for a 3 day visit and then explore the keys for the second half of the week. How is drive from Miami to Naples and then from Naples to the Keys? Too much to cram in 1 week? 
Florida has a Sunrise 33.08 miles north of Miami and a second Sunrise on the Gulf Coast near Saint Petersburg that is 220.90 miles from Miami, hower the Sun only rises once ea … ch day in the Sunshine State and it always manages to rise in the East and set in the West. MapQuest gives the estimated driveing time as 4 hours and 23 minutes. It is 279.86 miles according to MapQuest. It is 279.86 miles and an estimated driving time of 4 hou … rs and 25 minut
How long does it take to drive from Miami airport to Hollywood? The approximate driving time and  mileage information -    Between: Miami, FL  and: Hollywood, CA  Driving miles: 2735  Driving time: 42 hrs  - is based on travelin … g non-stop in good driving  conditions. MapQuest gives the estimated driveing time as 4 hours and 23 minutes. It is 279.86 miles according to MapQuest. It is 279.86 miles and an estimated driving time of 4 hou … rs and 25 minut
About 3.5 hours-maybe 4 depending on road construction. The hardest part is getting out of Miami to Key Largo-then it's a 2 lane highway through all the keys to Key … West with alot of traffic lights in between. If you are coming from Miami-definitely take the toll road. MapQuest gives the estimated driveing time as 4 hours and 23 minutes. It is 279.86 miles according to MapQuest. It is 279.86 miles and an estimated driving time of 4 hou … rs and 25 minut