Hogfish Favorite among fishermen on the lower Atlantic coast and all the way around Florida and the Gulf of Mexico, Hogfish is regarded as a real taste treat with high quality soft and tasty filets. 
Hogfish is a commonly targeted species for many spear and reef fisherman and is regarded highly by many for its taste and food value. In 2007, the Florida landings of hogfish totaled 306,953 pounds.. The hogfish is a protogynous, “first female” hermaphrodite: juvenile hogfish start out as female and then mature to become male. The change usually occurs around three years of age and about 14 inches in length.
Hogfish was a new one for me — the name conjured up some imaginative looks for the fish. While waiting for our meal, we went back to Captain Eddie’s seafood market for a closer look, where they sell hogfish for $25 a pound. Next thing I know, Jason Fitch of Captain Eddie’s brought us out a 1½ to 2-foot hogfish to ogle. Bailey prepares hogfish with extra virgin olive oil and onions and flash fries them for about three minutes. He’ll then add lemon and cook for another minute. Like Masura, Bailey echoed that they taste better than grouper. Matt Humphrey of Bradenton has also done spearfishing for hogfish and called them great eating.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: this is hard to answer, because fish does not taste like anything else on earth. If you smell the breeze coming off a lake or pond or the ocean, that fishy smell, well, fish make that smell, and it is kind of what it tasts like. Fish vary in taste widely, there is mild like Orange Roughy, if you never had it you should have it fried and mild.
Hogfish are often referred to as the filet mignon of fish. This delicate, white fish has virtually no fishy taste and is often a favorite. What makes hogfish special is that it is primarily caught by spear, not hook and line like most fish are harvested. Hogfish is great blackened on a skillet with your favorite seasoning, or with no seasoning at all. There's no wrong way to cook it, however the meat is very tender and cooks extremely fast so it's important not to overcook it. Substitutes for this delicate fish are hard to find. Snapper and grouper offer comparable flakiness, but hogfish truly is one of a kind.
Fish lovers looking to hog hogfish. VANESSA CACERES/For those in the know, hogfish is outstanding tasting fish, but it’s expensive and difficult to find. Bailey prepares hogfish with extra virgin olive oil and onions and flash fries them for about three minutes. He’ll then add lemon and cook for another minute. Like Masura, Bailey echoed that they taste better than grouper. Matt Humphrey of Bradenton has also done spearfishing for hogfish and called them great eating.
Literally. My son and I were ordering a shrimp platter and deep fried alligator bites at Captain Eddie’s Seafood Restaurant in Nokomis, when server Tim Masura went on to praise their house specialty of Gulf-caught hogfish, described on the menu as “sweet, firm, white fish prepared fried, broiled, or blackened.”. Bailey prepares hogfish with extra virgin olive oil and onions and flash fries them for about three minutes. He’ll then add lemon and cook for another minute. Like Masura, Bailey echoed that they taste better than grouper. Matt Humphrey of Bradenton has also done spearfishing for hogfish and called them great eating.
The hogfish (Lachnolaimus maximus), is a species of wrasse native to the western Atlantic Ocean, with a range from Nova Scotia, Canada to northern South America, including the Gulf of Mexico. This species occurs around reefs, especially preferring areas with plentiful gorgonians. The hogfish is a protogynous, “first female” hermaphrodite: juvenile hogfish start out as female and then mature to become male. The change usually occurs around three years of age and about 14 inches in length.
Fresh Hog Snapper is also known as Hogfish due to its head resembling a pig's snout. Hogfish is lean, has a delicate texture, very fine white meat with mild flavor and subtle sweet undertones. Great sauteed, broiled, baked or fried. Hog Snapper sells out quickly because of the traditional fishing practices with spears as opposed to hook and line. Order will be shipped fresh never frozen. 