collagen disease, an abnormal condition characterized by extensive disruption of the connective tissue, often involving inflammation and fibrinoid degeneration. Collagen diseases include polyarteritis nodosa, systemic lupus erythematosus, osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis. collagen disease. n. Any of a group of inflammatory, often autoimmune diseases affecting connective tissue, including lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, polyarteritis nodosa, scleroderma and dermatomyositis. Also called collagenosis, collagen vascular disease.
Collagen Vascular Disease. Collagen vascular disease is an autoimmune disease the mainly affects the collagen in the body. An autoimmune disease is a disorder which causes the body’s immune system to mistakenly destroy or attack its own body. Collagen vascular disease is also known as a connective tissue disease. The term is used to describe a group of diseases that affects the body’s collagen. The diseases under collagen vascular disease include: rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, dermatomyositis, scleroderma, and many more. Patients with collagen vascular disease may develop anemia. Anemia is a condition wherein there are low levels of blood cells in the body. Anemia symptoms may include: headache, dizziness, abnormal heart rate, excessive fatigue, pale skin, cold extremities, and breathing difficulties.
Collagen disease is a term that refers to disorders involving collagen, a type of protein found in many forms of connective tissue. Collagen is very tough and has a glue-like consistency. It makes up around 30% of the protein found in the body and is an important component of the body's physical structure. In true collagen disease, the collagen itself is involved in the disease process. Collagen can become inflamed and this may lead to breakdowns of connective tissue that cause problems like joint pain, soreness, tenderness, and muscle weakness.
A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a target of pathology. Connective tissue is any type of biological tissue with an extensive extracellular matrix that supports, binds together, and protects organs. In patients with connective tissue disease, it is common for collagen and elastin to become injured by inflammation. Many connective tissue diseases feature abnormal immune system activity with inflammation in tissues as a result of an immune system that is directed against one's own body tissues (autoimmunity).
Injectable drugs may be used to soothe joint pain caused by collagen disease. Scleroderma is a connective tissue disease characterized by the hardening and tightening of the skin's connective tissues. Treatment for an autoimmune disease, such as collagen disease, typically involves a cocktail of various medications. View slideshow of images above. In true collagen disease, the collagen itself is involved in the disease process. Collagen can become inflamed and this may lead to breakdowns of connective tissue that cause problems like joint pain, soreness, tenderness, and muscle weakness.
Collagen vascular disease refers to a group of diseases that affect your connective tissue. Collagen is a protein-based connective tissue that forms a support system for your skin. The connective tissue holds bones, ligaments, and muscles together. Collagen vascular disease is sometimes also called connective tissue disease. Some disorders classified as collagen vascular diseases affect your joints, skin, blood vessels, or other vital organs. Symptoms vary according to the specific disease. Examples of collagen vascular disease include: 1  lupus. 2  rheumatoid arthritis. 3  scleroderma. 4  temporal arteritis.
In patients with connective tissue diseases, it is common for collagen and elastin to become injured by inflammation. Many connective tissue diseases feature abnormal immune system activity with inflammation in tissues as a result of an immune system that is directed against one's own body tissues (autoimmunity). Diseases in which inflammation or weakness of collagen tends to occur are also referred to as collagen diseases. A connective tissue disease is any disease that has the connective tissues of the body as a primary target of pathology. The connective tissues are the structural portions of our body that essentially hold the cells of the body together.
Collagen disease is a term previously used to describe systemic autoimmune diseases (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and systemic sclerosis), but now is thought to be more appropriate for diseases associated with defects in collagen, which is a component of the connective tissue. The term collagen disease was coined by Dr. Alvin F. Coburn in 1932, on his quest to discover streptococcal infection as the cause for rheumatic fever.