A Food Service Worker earns an average wage of C$12.44 per hour. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It might depend on the health care facility. And there seems to be a lot of jobs for food service workers especially in a hospital or nursing home/long-term care setting. Just a word to the wise, there is probably a lot of standing and bending in that type of job. Just fyi :) Good luck in your endeavors. For more info on average salary and such: US Occupational Outlook Handbook www.bls.gov/oco and can type into search 'food service worker' or such. 
The average pay for a Food Service Worker is $9.61 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For example, a food service worker in a school cafeteria may serve food to a line of people from behind a buffet-style enclosure.
Hospital, Food Service Worker Salary. Hospital, Food Service Worker average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Hospital, Food Service Worker salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Hospital, Food Service Worker salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Hospital, Food Service Worker salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
A hospital isn’t exactly a place where someone goes for a good time, but as a Hospital Food Service Worker, you can at least ensure that the food is good. Gone are the days of the hospital cafeteria’s mystery meat, and in comes the era of healthy and delicious meals based on each patient’s specific requirements. Your job as a Hospital Food Service Worker is to prepare and deliver trays to patients, and clean up afterward. When mealtime rolls around, the Hospital Food Service Worker starts setting out food for each patient. It’s like a game of musical chairs, only with trays. Color coded cards tell you what each patient can and can’t have, and it’s up to you to mix and match foods with who they go to.
Food Service Worker. Food Service Worker PD# 5852-A. The incumbent of this position will serve as a Food Service Worker performing a full range of food preparation, serving, and... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Department of Veterans Affairs jobs in Palo Alto, CA-Palo Alto jobs. 2  Salary Search: Food Service Worker salaries in Palo Alto, CA
$20,000. Average Food Service Worker salaries for job postings nationwide are 65% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 