Temperature of the cosmic background radiation spectrum as determined with the COBE satellite: uncorrected (top), corrected for the dipole term due to our peculiar velocity (middle), and corrected for contributions from the dipole term and from our galaxy (bottom). One component is the cosmic microwave background radiation. This component is redshifted photons that have freely streamed from an epoch when the Universe became transparent for the first time to
This is a compilation of initialisms and acronyms commonly used in astronomy. Most are drawn from professional astronomy, and are used quite frequently in scientific publications. A few are frequently used by the general public or by amateur astronomers. 1 Celestial object – acronyms for natural objects in space and for adjectives applied to objects in space. 2  Instrumentation – telescope and other spacecraft equipment, particularly detectors such as imagers and spectrometers. 3  Meeting – meetings that are not named after organizations.
The origin of this radiation depends on the region of the spectrum that is observed. One component is the cosmic microwave background radiation. This component is redshifted photons that have freely streamed from an epoch when the Universe became transparent for the first time to radiation.
Cosmic background radiation is electromagnetic radiation from the sky with no discernible source. One component is the cosmic microwave background radiation. This component is redshifted photons that have freely streamed from an epoch when the Universe became transparent for the first time to
Its discovery and detailed observations of its properties are considered one of the major confirmations of the Big Bang. The discovery (by chance in 1965) of the cosmic background radiation suggests that the early universe was dominated by a radiation field, a field of extremely high temperature and pressure. One component is the cosmic microwave background radiation. This component is redshifted photons that have freely streamed from an epoch when the Universe became transparent for the first time to
1 CBR was discovered by accident by Penzias and Wilson in the early 1960s. 2  CBR is consistent with an expanding and cooling Universe. 3  Right after the Big Bang, the temperature of the Universe was in the millions of degrees and the CBR peaked in the gamma-ray part of the electromagnetic spectrum. 1 The Hubble Law is the observation that the recessional velocity of distant galaxies (measured by their redshift) is proportional to their distance from the observer. 2  This simple model/activity can help us understand this phenomenon. 3  The Hubble Law implies that:
1 CBR resembles the radiation that would emanate from a dense object with a temperature of about 2.7 K. The dense object is presumably the original dense Universe. 2  CBR was discovered by accident by Penzias and Wilson in the early 1960s. 3  CBR is consistent with an expanding and cooling Universe. 1 The Hubble Law is the observation that the recessional velocity of distant galaxies (measured by their redshift) is proportional to their distance from the observer. 2  This simple model/activity can help us understand this phenomenon. 3  The Hubble Law implies that:
Some sources like tungsten lamps or blackbodies are purely continuum sources, while in sources with lines the continuum is a smooth spectrum drawn through the points between the lines. CMB: Cosmic Microwave Background radiation, also CMBR, CBR and the 3 K blackbody radiation. 
The acronyms listed below were placed into one or more of these categories: 1  Astrophysics terminology – physics-related acronyms. 2  Catalog – collections of tabulated scientific data. 3  Communications network – any network that functions primarily to communicate with spacecraft rather than performing astronomy. 1 Celestial object – acronyms for natural objects in space and for adjectives applied to objects in space. 2  Instrumentation – telescope and other spacecraft equipment, particularly detectors such as imagers and spectrometers. 3  Meeting – meetings that are not named after organizations.
1 CBR is consistent with an expanding and cooling Universe. 2  Right after the Big Bang, the temperature of the Universe was in the millions of degrees and the CBR peaked in the gamma-ray part of the electromagnetic spectrum. 1 The Hubble Law is the observation that the recessional velocity of distant galaxies (measured by their redshift) is proportional to their distance from the observer. 2  This simple model/activity can help us understand this phenomenon. 3  The Hubble Law implies that: