To apply for your first Washington State CPA license as a Washington candidate, you will need to: 1  Pass the CPA exam. 2  Verify that you have met the good character requirements during your application process. 3  Verify that your experience is qualified and complete an Experience Affidavit (Fillable PDF). 
150 Hour Requirement for Obtaining CPA Certification. Overview. A certified public accountant (CPA) in today's environment must not only have a high level of technical competence and a sense of commitment to service, but must also have good communications and analytical skills, and the ability to work well with people. How to Meet the 150-Hour Requirement. Many colleges and universities offer bachelor's and master's degree programs in accounting. To obtain 150 semester hours of education, students do not necessarily have to get a master's degree. They can meet the requirement at the undergraduate level or get a bachelor's degree and take some courses at the graduate level
Since bachelor’s programs typically result in just 120 semester hours of credit, the American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) maintains that earning a Master of Science in Accounting is the best way to achieve the full 150 semester hours you will need for your CPA license. 1 Path 4: As an alternative to the 150 hours of general college education you can qualify for a CPA certificate/license in Ohio with a score of 620 on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT).
If you meet the educational requirements, submit your application to the CPA Examination Services Ohio Coordinator in Nashville, Tennessee. The application fee will be $140 and the exam fees will be $729.08 for a total of $869.08. Allow up to two weeks after receipt of application, fees and transcripts for processing. 1 Review exam requirements. To sit for the CPA exam as a first-time four-part candidate in Ohio, follow these steps: You will need 150 hours* of college credit and either: 1  A baccalaureate and 150 semester hours (225 quarter hours) of college credit
After passing the CPA Exam, but before a CPA license is issued, applicants for a CPA license will need to fulfill an ethics requirement, such as completion of an ethics course and/or an ethics exam. Learn your state's requirements regarding ethics at State Boards of Accountancy. 
Delaware. Effective August 1, 2012, all candidates need to have 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam. New Hampshire. You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as it includes at least 24 semester hours in business, including at least 12 semester hours in accounting. However, effective July 1, 2014, candidates will need 150 hours of education to be licensed. However, the trend is toward 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam and for licensure, so if you’re just starting your education, you should be prepared to obtain at least 150 hours as the requirements in these states are likely to change. California.
In Ohio, the term CPA certificate is used in place of CPA license. The state board requires 150 credit hours before allowing you to sit for the CPA exam. 