Angus is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced An-gus. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1515 in baby name popularity for boys with 105 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
Angus /an-gus/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced ANG-guss. It is of Celtic origin, and the meaning of Angus is one choice. Scottish: Anglicized form of the Gaelic name Aonghus or Aonghas. Celtic mythology: Angus Og is a god of attractive traits such as humor and wisdom. Also the name of an eighth-century Pictish king known as Onnust or Hungus. In America, the name tends to be associated with breeds of cattle such as the Aberdeen Angus.
Angus cattle, known as Aberdeen Angus in most parts of the world, are a breed of cattle commonly used in beef production. They were developed from cattle native to the counties of Aberdeenshire and Angus in Scotland. Angus cattle are naturally polled and solid black or red although the udder may be white. 
Angus is used predominantly in the English, Irish, and Scottish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name's meaning is one choice. It is derived from the elements 'oen' óen meaning; 'one' gus; choice, vigor. Strength the name Is anglicized from The gaelic Forms aonghus Or. aonghas Angie (Scottish diminutive form), Gussie (English diminutive form), and Gus (English, Irish, Latin, Scandinavian, and Scottish short form) are other variants of Angus. See also the related form, Enosh (English and Hebrew).
Out of all boy names in its group, Angus was nonetheless the most frequently used in 2012. Baby names that sound like Angus include Aonghas, Aenneas, Ahmik, Amic, Amick, Amik, Amish, Amnas, Amose, Amoz, Amsi, Amsu, Amyc, Amyees, Amys, Amzi, Anas, Anca, Anchjo, and Andrzei. Angie (Scottish diminutive form), Gussie (English diminutive form), and Gus (English, Irish, Latin, Scandinavian, and Scottish short form) are other variants of Angus. See also the related form, Enosh (English and Hebrew).
The name Angus is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Angus is: Unique choice. Irish Meaning: The name Angus is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Angus is: From the Gaelic Aonghus,meaning one choice, or one vigor. No longer in common use in Ireland.One vigor. Scottish Meaning: The name Angus is a Scottish
The name Angus is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Angus is: Exceptionally strong. Gaelic Meaning: The name Angus is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Angus is: Superior strength. In Greek the meaning of the name Angus is: Unique choice. Irish Meaning: The name Angus is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Angus is: From the Gaelic Aonghus,meaning one choice, or one vigor.
Look up Angus in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Angus is a masculine given name in English. It is an Anglicised form of the Irish and Scottish Gaelic Aonghas, which is composed of Celtic elements meaning one, and choice. A variant spelling of the Scottish Gaelic name is Aonghus. The Irish form of the Scottish Gaelic name is Aengus. A pet form of the given name Angus is Angie, pronounced  an-ghee , which represents the Scottish Gaelic Angaidh. A short form of the given name Angus is Gus, which may be lengthened to Gussie.
The name Angus is of Celtic origin and means one choice. 
Angus is rare as a baby name for boys. At the modest peak of its usage in 1904, 0.012% of baby boys were given the name Angus. It ranked at #540 then. The baby name has since suffered a marked fall in popularity, and is currently of irregular use. Angie (Scottish diminutive form), Gussie (English diminutive form), and Gus (English, Irish, Latin, Scandinavian, and Scottish short form) are other variants of Angus. See also the related form, Enosh (English and Hebrew).