There are three combinations of genotypes or alleles: AA (receives dominant traits from both parents), Aa (receives a dominant trait from one parent and a recessive trait from the other), and aa (receives recessive traits from both parents). Eye color is one example wherein dominant genes mask recessive genes. 2.A dominant gene is one which is strong while a recessive gene is one which is weak. 3.A dominant gene will show up in the trait while a recessive gene, although still present, is masked or hidden by the dominant gene.
• Dominant and recessive are terms used for genes that are strong and weak respectively. • Dominant genes show up in the form of a trait while recessive genes get hidden by dominant genes. • It is only when an individual receives recessive genes from both parents that recessive gene shows up. Related posts: The gene that shows up is called dominant, while the masked one is called recessive. While the dominant gene shows up, the recessive gene is still there though masked. Recessive genes are showed up only when the organism receives recessive copies from both parents (aa).
The difference between a dominant allele and a recessive allele is that if a person inherits one dominant allele and one recessive allele the dominant allele will appear as it … is stronger or more dominant than a recessive allele the dominant allele is stronger the recessive allele weaker. Dominant is an allele that will always be expressed in a heterozygous individual. Recessive on other hand are traits that will only be expressed in a homozygous condition. Organisms receive one allele for each trait from each parent, thus you have two alleles for each trait.
Dominant vs Recessive. Genetics is the science of heredity, genes, and the differences in living organisms. It is a biological discipline that deals with the structure and function of genes, their behavior and patterns of inheritance from the parents to the offspring. 2.A dominant gene is one which is strong while a recessive gene is one which is weak. 3.A dominant gene will show up in the trait while a recessive gene, although still present, is masked or hidden by the dominant gene.
Report Abuse. A dominant allele produces a dominant phenotype in individuals who have one copy of the allele, which can come from just one parent. For a recessive allele to produce a recessive phenotype, the individual must have two copies, one from each parent. An individual with one dominant and one recessive allele for a gene will have the dominant phenotype. They are generally considered “carriers” of the recessive allele: the recessive allele is there, but the recessive phenotype is not. Hanipa · 3 months ago. Thumbs up.
…   A dominant trait is the expressed result of an organism having  either one dominant and one recessive gene for that trait, OR two  dominant genes for that trait. For example, brown eye color is  normally dominant over blue.    A recessive trait is the expressed result of having two recessive  genes. Dominant trait is the one which is expressed when the homologous pair of genes controlling it are either homozygous or Hetrozygous dominant; on the other hand recessive trait … has both genes to be homozygous recessive. in fact trait is controlled by the form of genes.
Dominant is an allele that will always be expressed in a heterozygous individual. Recessive on other hand are traits that will only be expressed in a homozygous condition. Or … ganisms receive one allele for each trait from each parent, thus you have two alleles for each trait. Dominant trait is the one which is expressed when the homologous pair of genes controlling it are either homozygous or Hetrozygous dominant; on the other hand recessive trait … has both genes to be homozygous recessive. in fact trait is controlled by the form of genes.
0 votes. answered by Lifeeasy Authors. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DOMINANCE AND RECESSIVE. Dominant and Recessive are the form of alleles or genes. In a pair of a gene the one which observed is a Dominant gene, whereas the one which masked by dominant gene or suppressed by it is a Recessive gene. For an example: 
The words dominant and recessive are encountered in the study of biology, particularly physical traits in the study of genetics. For every physical trait, you receive two copies of the gene, one from your father, and the other from your mother. The gene that shows up is called dominant, while the masked one is called recessive. While the dominant gene shows up, the recessive gene is still there though masked. Recessive genes are showed up only when the organism receives recessive copies from both parents (aa).
Definitions. A dominant trait is one that is expressed in an individual who has only one copy of that gene. A recessive trait occurs when a person gets two copies of a mutant gene, or one from each parent. How They Are Expressed. Dominant and recessive traits are expressed differently when referring to the Punnett Square developed by Gregor Mendel. A dominant trait is expressed by an uppercase letter, while a recessive gene is represented by a lower case letter.