Reproduction. One of the most obvious differences between a gopher snake and a rattlesnake is their reproductive process. Rattlesnakes give live birth to young, whereas gopher snakes lay eggs. The eastern diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus) gives birth to a brood of six to 21 live young. Eyes. While rattlesnakes and gopher snakes both have round eyes on both sides of their heads, it’s their pupils that give away their identity. Rattlesnakes have vertical, cat-like pupils, while gopher snakes have rounded pupils.
One of the most obvious differences between a gopher snake and a rattlesnake is their reproductive process. Rattlesnakes give live birth to young, whereas gopher snakes lay eggs. The eastern diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus) gives birth to a brood of six to 21 live young. Gopher snakes, on average, lay two clutches of two to 24 eggs each year.
Size and Shape. Gopher snakes are often longer than rattlesnakes. The average adult gopher snake measures between 6 and 9 feet long, while (depending on the species) rattlesnakes come in between 3 and 6 feet long. However, while the gopher snake is longer, its body is slender and whip-like compared to the rattlesnake’s heavy-bodied, broad appearance. Eyes. While rattlesnakes and gopher snakes both have round eyes on both sides of their heads, it’s their pupils that give away their identity. Rattlesnakes have vertical, cat-like pupils, while gopher snakes have rounded pupils.
Common name: Pacific gopher snake, coast gopher snake, western gopher snake, more. Pituophis catenifer is a species of nonvenomous colubrid snake endemic to North America. Six subspecies are currently recognized, including the nominotypical subspecies, Pituophis catenifer catenifer, described here. 
Size and Shape. Gopher snakes are often longer than rattlesnakes. The average adult gopher snake measures between 6 and 9 feet long, while (depending on the species) rattlesnakes come in between 3 and 6 feet long. However, while the gopher snake is longer, its body is slender and whip-like compared to the rattlesnake’s heavy-bodied, broad appearance. Rattlesnakes give live birth to young, whereas gopher snakes lay eggs. The eastern diamondback rattlesnake (Crotalus adamanteus) gives birth to a brood of six to 21 live young. Gopher snakes, on average, lay two clutches of two to 24 eggs each year.
Gopher snakes and rattlesnakes resemble each other superficially. They have the same sort of markings and colors, and both snakes can be a bit short-tempered. The longest rattlesnake is about 9 feet long, and the fangs of a big rattlesnake can grow up to an inch long. But most rattlesnakes only grow to 5 feet long. The gopher snake grows from 6 to 9 feet long. Both snakes eat rabbits, squirrels, mice and other rodents. But there are differences.
Distinguishing Features. Large and heavy-bodied, the gopher snake is reported to reach 9 feet (275 cm) in length, but 4 feet (120 cm) is more common. On its back are 33 to 66 light-to dark-brown or reddish blotches on a ground color of yellow, straw, tan or cream. Smaller blotches are located on the animal s sides. Other common names: bullsnake. Spanish names: v bora sorda. Large and heavy-bodied, the gopher snake is reported to reach 9 feet (275 cm) in length, but 4 feet (120 cm) is more common. On its back are 33 to 66 light-to dark-brown or reddish blotches on a ground color of yellow, straw, tan or cream.
Harmless and beneficial Gopher Snakes are often mistaken for the more dangerous rattlesnakes and killed unnecessarily. It is easy to avoid this mistake by learning to tell the difference between the two families of snakes as shown in these signs. Not Dangerous (Non-poisonous). Gopher Snakes do not have venom that is dangerous to most humans. Gopher Snakes are one of the most commonly seen snakes in California. Primarily active during the day, they are also active after sundown on hot days.
Gopher Snake. Gopher Snake (Pituophis melanoleucus). Other common name: bullsnake. V bora Roedor-en Espa ol. Species Code: PIME. Description: Gopher Snakes are large and heavy-bodied reptiles-reported to reach 9 feet (275 cm) in length, but 4 feet (120 cm) is more common. On its back are 33 to 66 light-to dark-brown or reddish blotches on a ground color of yellow, straw, tan or cream. Smaller blotches are located on the animal s sides. 1 The gopher snake is commonly misidentified as a Rattlesnake because of its markings and defensive behavior. 2  It may hiss loudly, flatten its head, vibrate the tail, and strike when annoyed. 3  A male sometimes will bite a female on the back of her neck when mating. 4  The gopher snake usually lays between 2 and 8 eggs.