The purpose of the proposal is to provide more specific guidance on the accounting for transfers of financial assets from a company to an off-balance-sheet structure known as a qualifying. . FASB issues statement on accounting for certain financial ... (Do not confuse with single-purpose entity, also abbreviated as SPE, which is more specialized and is typically a lender requirement before it will extend mortgage financing on large projects.) Also called special-purpose vehicle.
DEFINITION of 'Special Purpose Vehicle/Entity-SPV/SPE'. 1. Also referred to as a bankruptcy-remote entity whose operations are limited to the acquisition and financing of specific assets. The SPV is usually a subsidiary company with an asset/liability structure and legal status that makes its obligations secure even if the parent company goes bankrupt. 2. A special purpose vehicle (SPV), also known as a special purpose entity (SPE), is a separate entity created by a company ...
Special-Purpose Entity. A financing technique in which a company decreases its risk by creating separate partnerships, rather than subsidiaries, for certain holdings and solicits outside investors to take on the risk. (Do not confuse with single-purpose entity, also abbreviated as SPE, which is more specialized and is typically a lender requirement before it will extend mortgage financing on large projects.) Also called special-purpose vehicle.
A business interest formed solely in order to accomplish some specific task or tasks. A business may utilize a special purpose entity for accounting purposes, but these transactions must still adhere to certain regulations. “ They were a special purpose entity and they realized that they had to accomplish a specific task in order to do what they wanted.
A special purpose entity may be owned by one or more other entities and certain jurisdictions may require ownership by certain parties in specific percentages. Often it is important that the SPE not be owned by the entity on whose behalf the SPE is being set up (the sponsor). 1 Regulatory reasons: A special purpose entity can sometimes be set up within an orphan structure to circumvent regulatory restrictions, such as regulations relating to nationality of ownership of specific assets. 2  Property investing: Some countries have different tax rates for capital gains and gains from property sales.
Next video: Loading the player... A special purpose entity, sometimes called a special purpose vehicle, is a legal entity created for one very limited, particular task. Typically, SPEs are subsidiaries of a larger corporation. Usually the task of a special purpose entity is to isolate risk. 
SPE may be owned by one or more other entities and certain jurisdictions may require ownership by certain parties in specific percentages. Often it is important that the SPE not to be owned by the entity on whose behalf the SPE is being set up. SPE's are typically used by companies to isolate the firm from financial risk. A company will transfer assets to the SPE for management or use the SPE to finance a large project thereby achieving a narrow set of goals without putting the entire firm at risk.
“ Many Americans became familiar with the term special purpose entity through the Enron scandal of 2001, in which a business interest or shell company was formed for a specific task; in this case, to hide enormous amounts of debt. “ They were a special purpose entity and they realized that they had to accomplish a specific task in order to do what they wanted.
A Special Purpose Entity (SPE) is a legal entity usually a limited company of some type created to fulfill narrow, specific or temporary objectives. SPE's are typically used by companies to isolate the firm from financial risk. A company will transfer assets to the SPE for management or use the SPE to finance a large project thereby achieving a narrow set of goals without putting the entire firm at risk. SPEs are also commonly used in complex financings to separate different layers of equity infusion
Advanced Filter. Web Service. OECD Statistics. Definition: Special purpose entities (SPEs) are: (1) generally organised or established in economies other than those in which the parent companies are resident; and (2) engaged primarily in international transactions but in few or no local operations.