Apprentices are Clan cats six moons or older, training to be a warrior (or sometimes a medicine cat) under a mentor. All apprentices' names end with the suffix -paw (i.e., Lionpaw, Breezepaw, Leafpaw) which symbolizes the path their paws are on, until they receive their warrior name. They also stay as an apprentice for as long as their mentor is still a medicine cat, even after they receive their full name, unlike warrior apprentices. Most medicine cat apprentices take a liking of healing cats almost as soon as they are able to go outside the nursery.
You become an apprentice at 6 moons, and train for about 6 moons more. I remember in Bluestar's prophecy they skipped a year ahead to Whitestorm's warrior ceremony. Also if you're a medicine cat apprentice you have to do 2-3 more moons of training than normal apprentices. Kels · 5 years ago. 
When a kit turns six moons old, he/she is ready to become an apprentice. Until this time, their name ends with the -kit suffix. When a kit becomes an apprentice, their name is changed so that the suffix of their name becomes -paw, showing the path their paws are on. Leader: (Warrior) , you are ready to take on an apprentice. You had received excellent training from (former mentor), and you have shown yourself to be (quality) and (quality). You will be the mentor of (apprentice), and I expect you to pass on all you know to (apprentice).
Best Answer: There is no specific age requirement to become a warrior. Kits must reach 6 moons, or 6 months, of age before they can become an apprentice. The usual age is at least a year, but it depends on the apprentice and how fast they learn. Source(s): Autumn · 7 years ago. There is no exact age a cat must be to become a warrior. Some cats like Firepaw/Fireheart/Firestar became warriors very quickly. Others take more time. It all depends on how well they doo with their training and if they get punnished their warrior ceremony might be bumped back.
Apprentices have their own den in the Clan camp where they sleep. Once an apprentice earns their warrior name, they are a full warrior and they are able to contribute to warrior duties, and they move in the warriors den. Sometimes apprentices are referred to as 'paws as mentioned in Fading Echoes. They also stay as an apprentice for as long as their mentor is still a medicine cat, even after they receive their full name, unlike warrior apprentices. Most medicine cat apprentices take a liking of healing cats almost as soon as they are able to go outside the nursery.
It depends, but they become warriors around 12 moons 1 year. There is no proper age. The apprentices become warriors when his or her mentor and the clan leader agree that they are ready for the full responsibility of becoming a warrior. 
1,121 pages on this wiki. Clan hierarchy starts with a kit. Once the kit reaches six moons of age they either become an apprentice or a medicine cat apprentice. When the kit becomes a medicine cat apprentice he/she will then become a medicine cat and will either be that for the rest of their life, or retire as an elder. Medicine cats do not usually become warriors later in life, the only example of this is Leafpool. If the kit becomes an apprentice then they will train to be a warrior. Once the apprentice is a warrior, they can become a mentor to other apprentices, a queen and raise kits, or retire as an elder. Some warriors become deputy, the assistant to the leader, and some deputies even become leader.