All in all cell phone use while driving should be illegal. It kills thousands of innocent people each year just in the USA alone. It is a proven fact that is takes 4.5-5 seconds to look at or send the average text taking your eyes off the road. Right now a hot topic is whether or not cell phone usage while driving should be illegal. Because of this many people are arguing about it. On one hand you may want to be able to use your phone to call the hospital if you are bringing someone who is injured.
1 National reported patterns of driver cell phone use in the United States. 2  Traffic Inj Prev 2010;11:543–48. 3  Brusque C, Alauzet A. Analysis of the individual factors affecting mobile phone use while driving in France: socio-demographic characteristics, car and phone use in professional and private contexts. 1
Mobile phone use while driving is common, but widely considered dangerous due to distracted driving. Due to the number of accidents that are related to cell phone use while driving, some jurisdictions have made the use of a cell phone while driving illegal. Many have enacted laws to ban handheld mobile phone use, but allow use of a handsfree device. The report doesn't state whether this under or over represents the level of cell phone use amongst drivers, and whether there is a causal relationship. A 2003 study of US crash data states that driver inattention is estimated to be a factor in 20% to 50% of all police-reported crashes.
Arizona There is a ban on all cell phone use for bus drivers, and on text messaging within the city of Phoenix. Arkansas Texting while driving is banned in Arkansas. Arkansas also bans hand-held phones for drivers between the ages of 18 and 20, and all cell phone use for school bus drivers and drivers under 18. Any phone use at all, hands-free or hand-held, is illegal statewide in school and construction zones. Indiana Drivers under 18 are banned from using mobile phones, while text messaging is illegal for any driver. There are no restrictions on handheld cell use for drivers 18 and over. Iowa Those with a Restricted or Intermediate license may not use a mobile phone at all. There is a ban on texting while driving in Iowa
Mobile device use while driving is a prevalent behavior in the United States and several countries in Europe. This study revealed a large range in the prevalence of these behaviors, particularly for estimates of talking on a cell phone while driving. 1 Brusque C, Alauzet A. Analysis of the individual factors affecting mobile phone use while driving in France: socio-demographic characteristics, car and phone use in professional and private contexts.
Also available to download: Mobile Phones and Driving. A substantial body of research shows that using a hand-held or hands-free mobile phone while driving is a significant distraction, and substantially increases the risk of the driver crashing. Drivers who use a mobile phone, whether hand-held or hands-free: The use of hand-held or hands-free phones while driving should be prohibited, particularly as there is a simple alternative – let the phone take messages and return calls when stopped in a safe place.
Despite the law and the dangers, a proportion of drivers persist in using their mobiles while driving. Surveys conducted in 2009 found that 2.9% of car drivers, and 5% of van and lorry drivers, were talking on either a hand-held or hands-free mobile phone. The use of hand-held or hands-free phones while driving should be prohibited, particularly as there is a simple alternative – let the phone take messages and return calls when stopped in a safe place.
More recently, driver distraction has become an emerging concern (2). To assess the prevalence of mobile device use while driving in Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom (UK), and the United States, CDC analyzed data from the 2011 EuroPNStyles and HealthStyles surveys. 1 Brusque C, Alauzet A. Analysis of the individual factors affecting mobile phone use while driving in France: socio-demographic characteristics, car and phone use in professional and private contexts.
Effective, July 26, 2013 fines for mobile phone/portable electronic device use while driving increased. 1  For a first offense, $50 to $150. 2  For a second offense committed within 18 months, $50 to $200. 3  For a third or subsequent offense committed within 18 months, $50 to $400. 