interalveolar septum. 1. one of the thin plates of bone separating the alveoli of the teeth in the mandible and maxilla. Called also interradicular septum. 2. one of the thin septa that separate adjacent pulmonary alveoli, containing connective tissue and the capillary network of the blood supply of the lung. Bigelow's septum a layer of hard, bony tissue in the neck of the femur. septum of Cloquet, crural septum, femoral septum the thin fibrous membrane that helps close the femoral ring. gingival septum the part of the gingiva interposed between adjoining teeth. interalveolar septum. 1. one of the thin plates of bone separating the alveoli of the different teeth in the mandible and maxilla. 2. one of the thin septa separating adjacent pulmonary alveoli. interatrial septum of heart the partition separating the right and left atria of the heart
The nasal septum separates the left and right airways in the nose, dividing the two nostrils. It is depressed by the depressor septi nasi muscle. 
In this article. A deviated septum is a condition in which the nasal septum -- the bone and cartilage that divide the nasal cavity of the nose in half -- is significantly off center, or crooked, making breathing difficult. Most people have some sort of imbalance in the size of their breathing passages. A. A deviated septum is a condition in which the nasal septum -- the bone and cartilage that divide the nasal cavity of the nose in half -- is significantly off center, or crooked, making breathing difficult.
See Ceuta#History for the city in Roman Mauretania. In biology, a septum (Latin for something that encloses; plural septa) is a wall, dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones. 
Noun. 1. septum - (anatomy) a dividing partition between two tissues or cavities. partition - (anatomy) a structure that separates areas in an organism. nasal septum-a partition of bone and cartilage between the nasal cavities. anatomy, general anatomy-the branch of morphology that deals with the structure of animals.
Understanding A Deviated Septum. The septum is a thin barrier that is made up of cartilage that separates the two nostrils. Generally the septum is thought to be located midway between the two areas, dividing them equally. A deviated septum occurs when this partition is off-center, shifting prominently to one side. A severely deviated septum can cause certain health problems and may require surgical treatment to be corrected.
The interventricular septum separates the left ventricle from the right ventricle. The interventricular septum is slanted backwards and to the right, and it also curves to the right, which completes the oval of the thick ventricle and encroaches upon the chamber of the right ventricle. The greater part of it is thick and muscular