1 A daisy is the day's eye, and an ox-eye is a type of chrysanthemum that looks like a daisy, although confusingly the Michaelmas daisy is an aster, because it resembles a star. 2  Flowers of Michaelmas daisy (A. novi-belgii) come mostly in shades of blue; ‘Climax’ has true blue flowers. Example sentences. 1 
Michaelmas daisy. n. 1. (Plants) Brit any of various plants of the genus Aster that have small autumn-blooming purple, pink, or white flowers: family Asteraceae (composites). Michaelmas daisy-North American perennial herb having small autumn-blooming purple or pink or white flowers; widely naturalized in Europe. Aster novi-belgii, New York aster. aster-any of various chiefly fall-blooming herbs of the genus Aster with showy daisylike flowers.
For other uses, see Aster (disambiguation) . Aster is a genus of flowering plants in the family Asteraceae. Its circumscription has been narrowed, and it now encompasses around 180 species, all but one of which are restricted to Eurasia; many species formerly in Aster are now in other genera of the tribe Astereae. 
Asters, or michaelmas daisies, are perennial flowers. You will find garden asters in many sizes and colors. Flowers usually bloom in late summer or fall in clusters, with each blossom from half an inch to several inches wide, on stems six inches to several feet tall. 
The Michaelmas daisy, or Aster amellus, is a European species of aster that is usually white, bluish, or lavender in appearance. These flowers can reach heights of 15 to 30 inches (40 to 70 centimeters), and typically produce daisy-like blooms that are 1 to 3 inches (2.5 to 7.5 centimeters) wide. The Michaelmas daisy is a perennial plant, meaning that it will typically grow back from the roots year after year without being replanted. Ad. These plants are typically capable of thriving without care, and have been observed to spread both through the roots and through seeds.
The noun MICHAELMAS DAISY has 1 sense: 1. North American perennial herb having small autumn-blooming purple or pink or white flowers; widely naturalized in Europe. Familiarity information: MICHAELMAS DAISY used as a noun is very rare. 
Clusters of tiny, pink to lavender daisy-like blooms set the Michaelmas daisy (Aster novi-belgii), sometimes called the New York aster, apart from other landscape perennials. These blooms appear in late summer or early fall, providing a last flush of color before the earth goes dormant for the winter. 1. Pull weeds growing around the Michaelmas daisy plant. Remove any debris such as dead leaves, stems or rocks from the ground. Spread a 1-inch layer of mulch around the plant with a rake, keeping the mulch 2 to 4 inches away from the plant's base to avoid causing the stems to rot.
The Michaelmas daisy is considered the Aster genus's type species, meaning that scientists believe this plant possesses all the major defining characteristics that should be found in all species of the genus. The Michaelmas daisy is a perennial plant, meaning that it will typically grow back from the roots year after year without being replanted. Ad. These plants are typically capable of thriving without care, and have been observed to spread both through the roots and through seeds.
Spread: 50cm. Time to divide plants: February to April. Easy to grow Michaelmas daisy which has graceful wiry stems which are covered in violet blue daisies for weeks in autumn. This is a low-growing variety that is ideal for use at the front of the border or along the edge of a path. It thrives in any well drained and sunny position. 