Leaf Venation Back to main Leaf menu Main menu Click on a term for information Pinnate Palmate Reticulate Dichotomous Parallel. Pinnate Leaf veins are produced on either side of the central main vein (midrib), which extends from the petiole to the leaf tip. Leaf Venation PetioleMidribLateral veinSublateralvein Main menu Back to main leaf menuBack to leaf venation menu. Palmate The main veins radiate from a central point at the petiole. Numerous veins radiate from the base of the leaf that branch near the upper leaf surface to form a Y. Leaf Venation Main menu Back to main leaf menuBack to leaf venation menu. Parallel Leaves with parallel venation are diagnostic for monocots.
From Conservapedia. Palmate venation is vein arrangement in a leaf with the veins radiating outward from the base of the leaf like fingers spread out from the palm of a hand. Categories : 
1. Having a shape similar to that of a hand with the fingers extended: palmate antlers; palmate coral. 2. Botany Having three or more veins, leaflets, or lobes radiating from one point; digitate: a palmate leaf. 3. Zoology Having webbing that connects the three front toes, as the feet of many waterbirds. pal′mate′ly adv. 1. (Zoology) shaped like an open hand: palmate antlers. 2. (Botany) botany having more than three lobes or segments that spread out from a common point: palmate leaves. 3. (Zoology) (of the feet of most water birds) having three toes connected by a web.
1. Having a shape similar to that of a hand with the fingers extended: palmate antlers; palmate coral. 2. Botany Having three or more veins, leaflets, or lobes radiating from one point; digitate: a palmate leaf. 3. Zoology Having webbing that connects the three front toes, as the feet of many waterbirds. pal′mate′ly adv. palmate. top: compound and lobed leaves. bottom: feet of an albatross.
From Conservapedia. Pinnate Venation is vein arrangement in a leaf with one main vein extending from the base to the tip of the leaf and smaller veins branching off the main vein. 1  Palmate Venation. 
pal·mate. 1. Having a shape similar to that of a hand with the fingers extended. Some kinds of coral and the antlers of moose and certain deer are palmate. palmate. top: compound and lobed leaves. bottom: feet of an albatross.
Palmate venation shows several main veins branching from a common point of midrib at base of blade. Arcuate venation is essentially pinnate, but main veins curve to follow margin of blade. Parallel (in many monocots) shows many straight veins side by side from base to tip. lustrous or glossy (shiny), dull (green but not shiny), or glaucous (pale or whitened). Venation: The midrib is the largest, central vein, becoming the petiole below the blade. To see photographic examples, click one of the cameras in the list of botanical terms. Basic morphology: A simple leaf consists of a blade, joined to the woody twig by a stalk, the petiole.
also pal·mat·ed. adjective. 1  Having a shape similar to that of a hand with the fingers extended: palmate antlers; palmate coral. 2  Botany Having three or more veins, leaflets, or lobes radiating from one point; digitate: a palmate leaf. 3  Zoology Having webbing that connects the three front toes, as the feet of many waterbirds. Although palmate leaves are typical of most Western maples, a number of species have leaves without lobes. ( 1 botany) (leaves) Having more than three leaflets arising from a common point, often in the form of a fan.
1 Having a shape similar to that of a hand with the fingers extended: palmate antlers; palmate coral. 2  Botany Having three or more veins, leaflets, or lobes radiating from one point; digitate: a palmate leaf. Although palmate leaves are typical of most Western maples, a number of species have leaves without lobes. ( 1 botany) (leaves) Having more than three leaflets arising from a common point, often in the form of a fan.
pal·mate. 1. Having a shape similar to that of a hand with the fingers extended. Some kinds of coral and the antlers of moose and certain deer are palmate. 2. Botany Having three or more veins, leaflets, or lobes radiating from one point. 1. (Zoology) shaped like an open hand: palmate antlers. 2. (Botany) botany having more than three lobes or segments that spread out from a common point: palmate leaves. 3. (Zoology) (of the feet of most water birds) having three toes connected by a web.