The pharynx is a fibromuscular cavity that is situated within the throat and is located posterior or at the back of the nasal and the oral cavities. This structure is also found posterior to the larynx. Although the pharynx varies in size depending on the body structure of every individual, this cavity is approximately 5 inches long. It is also divided into three significant regions namely the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx or the hypopharynx. With the help of the circular muscles that lines the walls of the pharynx, the bolus is then pushed through to the esophagus. This process is made possible by the swallowing reflex, which prevents the food from entering the windpipe or the trachea.
It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization. There are two sets of pharyngeal muscles that act upon the pharynx. These are arranged as an inner layer of longitudinal muscles and an outer circular layer.
Describe the function of each of the three regions of the pharynx. Nasopharynx-passageway for air Oropharynx-passage for food and drink into the digestive tract Laryngopharynx-entry into digestive tract creating passage for food and drink into the digestive tract.   . 
The word throat is used for the parts of the neck anterior to the vertebral column, especially the pharynx and the larynx. The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx. The larynx is the organ that connects the lower part of the pharynx with the trachea. It serves (1) as a valve to guard the air passages, especially during swallowing, (2) for the maintenance of a patent airway, and (3) for vocalization. The anterior aspect of the larynx is quite superficial (fig.
The pharynx, also known as the throat, is a muscular funnel that extends from the posterior end of the nasal cavity to the superior end of the esophagus and larynx. The pharynx is divided into 3 regions: the nasopharynx, oropharynx, and laryngopharynx. 
The Pharynx has three parts: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. At the base of the nasopharynx, structures called the soft palate and the pendulous uvula block the nasopharynx when food is swallowed so that it does not pass into the lungs. (Answer #2). The three anatomical regions of the pharynx are: Nasopharynx-air and secretions from the nose travel through this passageway and connects with the oral pharynx on its path to the hypopharnx. The pharngeal tonsil is located near it so when it swells it may interfere was nasal respiration
In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization. There are two sets of pharyngeal muscles that act upon the pharynx. These are arranged as an inner layer of longitudinal muscles and an outer circular layer.
It plays a role in both the respiratory as well as the digestive system. Function of the Pharynx. The pharynx is a common passageway for air and food, which is why pharynx has dual role. The pharynx opens into two pathways, one that leads to the esophagus or food passage and the other trachea or air passage. Advertisement. Pharynx, a 5 inch long conical, fibromuscular cavity within the throat is situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. This is why the pharynx can be divided into three regions depending on the position.