In one example, the end product depends on the successful completion of five reactions, each mediated by a specific enzyme. The enzymes in a series can be located adjacent to each other (in an organelle or in the membrane of an organelle), thus speeding the reaction process.
Enzymes are not used up in a chemical reaction. Usually, the enzyme will reset and be ready to use in another reaction. This is due to the fact that enzymes are proteins, and their shape is what they use
The other way to begin a chemical reaction is to lower the activation energy barrier. This is what enzymes do; they allow chemical reactions to start and continue at rates that maintain life. An enzyme catalyzes virtually every chemical reaction that takes place in biological organisms.
Figure %: Step 1. The reaction occurs with the help of the enzyme hexokinase, an enzyme that catalyzes the phosphorylation of many six-membered glucose-like ring structures. A kinase is the name given to an enzyme that phosphorylates other molecules.
The enzyme changes shape upon binding to the substrate. The active site has a shape complementary to that of the substrate only after the substrate is bound. In an enzyme catalyzed reaction, the rate of enzyme catalyzed reaction varies with the concentration of the substrate, as shown in the figure.
However, the process of enzyme catalysis is similar among different enzymes (Fig 4.2). First, the substrate(s) binds to the active site to form an enzyme-substrate complex. Secondly, the reaction occurs converting the substrate(s) into product(s), forming an enzyme-product complex.
Likewise an enzyme molecule binds its substrate(s), catalyzes a reaction, and releases the product(s). Each step in this process requires time—time to receive the raw materials, do what needs to be done to them, and release the product. So each enzyme molecule requires x amount of time to produce one unit of product.
Which enzyme catalyzes the reaction that takes place and which product is the result of this reaction? Amylase catalyzes the reaction; glucose is the product Pepsin catalyzes the reaction; lactase is the product Lactate dehydrogenase catalyzes the reaction; lactate is the product.