The pound (symbol £ , or A£ when distinguished from other currencies called the pound) was the currency of Australia from 1910 until 14 February 1966, when it was replaced by the Australian dollar. It was subdivided into 20 shillings (symbol s), each of 12 pence (symbol d). The history of currency in Australia could be said to begin in 1800, when Governor Philip Gidley King issued a proclamation setting the value of a variety of foreign coins in New South Wales.
Australian money consists of banknotes and coins. Australian banknotes (called bills in countries such as the USA) are made of plastic in a manufacturing process pioneered in Australia. They come in denominations of $100, $50, $20, $10 and $5. Coin sizes and shapes. From largest size to lowest, these coins are the silver 50¢, silver 20¢, gold $1, silver 10¢; gold $2, and silver 5¢ pieces. The 50¢ piece is in the shape of a 12-sided polygon. The coin edges are smooth. Aside from the 50¢ piece, Australian coins are round in shape with knurled or partly-knurled edges
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Australian coins refers to the coins which are or were in use as Australian currency. During the early days of the colonies that formed Australia, foreign currency was used, but in 1910, a decade after federation, Australian coins were introduced. He was worried that the coins would quickly be exported out of the colony and had holes cut in the middle of them to try to keep them in Australia. These were known as Holey dollars (valued at five shillings), with the piece from the middle being called the Dump (valued at around 15 pence).
Australia used pounds, shillings and pence until 1966, when it adopted the decimal system with the Australian dollar divided into 100 cents. With the exception of the first Proclamation Coinage and the holey dollars, all Australian coins remain legal tender despite being withdrawn from circulation. He was worried that the coins would quickly be exported out of the colony and had holes cut in the middle of them to try to keep them in Australia. These were known as Holey dollars (valued at five shillings), with the piece from the middle being called the Dump (valued at around 15 pence).
Australian Dollar History. Importance of the Australian Dollar. The central bank in Australia is called the Reserve Bank of Australia. As the 5th most traded currency in the world, the Australian dollar is also referred to as buck, dough, or the Aussie. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Australian currency is the dollar. And no it isn't american money. We have our own denominations and sizes, shapes etc We have a $100 note, a $50 note, a $20 note, a $10 note, a $5 note, a $2 and a $1 coin, a 50 cent coin, a 20 cent coin, a ten cent coin and a five cent coin. · just now. Report Abuse. Australia's currency was originally the Australian Pound (tied until the 1930s to the value of the British Pound), but they launched a new currency, the Australian Dollar, in the 1960s which remains in use today. The symbol is $ and the abbreviation is AUD.
This process created two parts: a small coin, which was called the dump in Australia, and a ring, which was called a holey dollar. One holey dollar was worth five shillings (a quarter of one pound sterling), and one dump was worth one shilling and three pence (or one quarter of a holey dollar). The history of currency in Australia could be said to begin in 1800, when Governor Philip Gidley King issued a proclamation setting the value of a variety of foreign coins in New South Wales.