Venus orbits closer to the Sun than Earth, so explaining how to find Venus in the sky is pretty easy. It will be fairly close to the Sun. Venus orbits the Sun faster than the Earth so it will either appear in the sky in the West in the evening or rise before the Sun in the East.
The Path of Venus through the Zodiac Constellations during the planet's morning apparition in 2015-16 (move your cursor over the image-or click on the image-to reveal the constellation names in their abbreviated three-letter form-the full names are listed here). Tick-marks indicate the first day of each month.
Cloud-covered Venus is the second planet from the Sun, and passes closer to Earth than any other planet. Even so, Venus remained shrouded in mystery until the Space Age because the clouds hide its surface from view. Early planetary scientists envisioned a lush world of oceans, constant rains, and abundant life.
There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. The planet Venus is the second planet from the Sun, in a nearly circular orbit about 108 million kilometers from the Sun.
Venus is located between Earth and Mercury in our Solar System. It is the second planet from the Sun, and completes one orbit about every 225 Earth days. 3 people found this useful. Edit.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun and the sixth largest. Venus' orbit is the most nearly circular of that of any planet, with an eccentricity of less than 1%.
Venus is the second planet from the Sun, and is Earth's closest neighbor in the solar system. Venus is the brightest object in the sky after the Sun and the Moon, and sometimes looks like a bright star in the morning or evening sky. The planet is a little smaller than Earth, and is similar to Earth inside.
However, Venus is the only planet that rotates from east to west instead of west to east. This means, that if we lived on Venus, the Sun would appear to rise in the west in the morning, and set in the east in the evening! Even stranger, Venus rotates so slowly that one day on Venus is equivalent to 117 days on Earth.