one day fast or 24-hour fast. This is the recommendation for beginners. But don't discount even shorter fasts if you've never fasted before. Sixteen hour fasts can be helpful, as can adhering to the natural nightly fast of 10-12 hours. You would take half the number of days of the fast for each transition period, essentially doubling the number of days between start and finish. So a 10 day fast would then require 20 days of attention and commitment from you.
A longer fast is preferable to a short one. Although for a beginner, the first juice fast should be about one to five days to start with. Do not attempt to fast longer unless you are familiar with, and understand juice fasting. Eventually you want to aim for an extended fast that is beyond 21 days. Personally, I have often done seven-day and 21-day juice fasts, a 28-day partial fast and a 40-day juice feast. During a short fast, it is possible that I shed up to 11 lbs (from 121 lbs to 110 lbs for a 5ft 6in frame)
A dditionally, how 'long' you fast should be commensurate with your fasting goals. For example, if you pull up the HOW DO I START page of our extensive website, you'll see how much weight our 'average' client loses during each of our Scientific Fasting Programs--from our 20-day to our 120-day Program. IF YOU'VE NEVER FASTED, you may wonder how long and what type of fast is right for you. As always, it's worthwhile to look at what those who've fasted before us have done--including how fasting has benefitted them--especially those we respect as our greatest role models.
This length of fast feels about right because after 30 day it seems like you have been fasting forever. Less than 30 days and you can miss the best experiences of the fast. The ten day water fast has also become a recommended number of days. Paul Bragg was an advocate of the 10 day water fast. Ten days on water will cause the same weight loss as 30 days on juice. But water fasting if far more difficult, especially if you have a fast metabolism. 
In the fast finish long run, start by running just the last three to five miles fast and on each successive fast finish long run, increase the distance of the fast part so that 3-4 weeks before your marathon, you run a 20-22 miler with the last 9-12 miles at a faster and faster pace. Just alternate a weekly 2-3 hour long, steady run with a fast finish long run during the 8-10 weeks before your marathon and you will be amazed at how your body adapts. In the long, steady runs, start at the slow end of your long run pace and run for two to two and a half hours.
Helping you decide how long to fast. While a three day fast is an excellent option and can fit nicely into a weekend, there are others. Give careful consideration when deciding how long to fast. You would take half the number of days of the fast for each transition period, essentially doubling the number of days between start and finish. So a 10 day fast would then require 20 days of attention and commitment from you.
1. Select a length of time to do your water fast. While many regular fasters can do a water fast from 3 to 30 days, beginners should experiment by trying several shorter fasts first to see how their bodies react. Try a 2 day water fast, just to see how things go, and if things go well, continue. 
The length of your transition periods can be based upon the length of the fast. You would take half the number of days of the fast for each transition period, essentially doubling the number of days between start and finish. So a 10 day fast would then require 20 days of attention and commitment from you.
For a three day fast, you'll want to allot at least a day before and a day after. One day fasts can be begun with a light dinner the night before. Although, keep in mind that the longer you spend acclimating your body beforehand, the easier (more comfortable) your fast will be. You would take half the number of days of the fast for each transition period, essentially doubling the number of days between start and finish. So a 10 day fast would then require 20 days of attention and commitment from you.