3 - 5 Days Leftovers must go in the fridge within two hours of serving to reduce your risk of food-borne illnesses, because bacteria grow more quickly at room temperature. Don't leave leftovers out. Put them in the refrigerator as soon as you're done with them. Cold temperatures slow the rate of bacteria growth. 
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. 
One Answer If you keep it in the cardboard containers that the Chinese restaurants give you about 4 days, if placed in Tupperware containers then 7-10 days. Another Answer For best quality, leftover Chinese Restaurant food should be eaten the next day. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge
Do you ever wonder how long you should keep food in your fridge before it goes bad? A package of deli meat, Chinese takeout, leftover dinner, a jar of mayonnaise -- all these items have a different shelf life in the fridge. It's important to know how long to keep them and when to toss them. Don't wait until it starts to smell!
If items that have been sitting in the fridge too long are eaten, they can lead to food poisoning and, in some cases, serious health problems. BABY FOOD: LASTS 1 - 3 DAYS IN FRIDGE ONCE OPENED. An open jar of strained fruits and veggies lasts two-to-three days in the fridge. Opened cooked meat and vegetable combos need to go after a day or two. Meat and veggie combos should go after two days, tops. The bottom line: Don't leave open jars of baby food in the fridge longer than three days. But foods don't stay fresh in the fridge forever, and the day will come when you take something out and wonder if it's still good to eat or has gone bad. On The Early Show Monday, ShopSmart magazine Editor in Chief Lisa Lee Freeman had the lowdown on how long foods last
LEFTOVERS: LAST 3 - 4 DAYS. Kung Pao chicken, pepperoni pizza, or tuna salad must go in the fridge within two hours of serving to reduce your risk of food-borne illnesses, because bacteria grow more quickly at room temperature. But foods don't stay fresh in the fridge forever, and the day will come when you take something out and wonder if it's still good to eat or has gone bad. On The Early Show Monday, ShopSmart magazine Editor in Chief Lisa Lee Freeman had the lowdown on how long foods last in the fridge.
A car refrigerator can keep food and drinks cold for up to 4 hours. As long as there are cold packs and ice stored in the bin, and the cooler is in a cool place, and not out o … f the sun, your food and items will be just fine with you the whole trip. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge
As a general rule, food should be eaten within two to three days of cooking. However, food safety guidelines are influenced by what the leftovers are, where they were cooked, and how long they were left on the counter before going into the fridge. 
EGGS: LASTS 3 - 5 WEEKS. Eggs should last three to five weeks after you put them in the fridge. Keep in mind that it's very important that you don't put eggs in the front of the fridge — even if there are compartments for them there. They'll spoil earlier if they're in the front. But foods don't stay fresh in the fridge forever, and the day will come when you take something out and wonder if it's still good to eat or has gone bad. On The Early Show Monday, ShopSmart magazine Editor in Chief Lisa Lee Freeman had the lowdown on how long foods last