It is not necessary to report a change of address for your Social Security card. If you get Social Security or Medicare benefits, go to my Social Security online to change your address. If you get Supplemental Security Income, contact your local Social Security office. Topics Social Security Number and Card Cards for Adults.
Log on to the Social Security Administration's Change Your Address web page (link is included in resources). If you do not have a Social Security password, click on the second link at the bottom of the page marked Change my address without using a Social Security password.. If you receive Social Security disability, retirement or survivors benefits, you can use the Social Security Administration's website to quickly change your address after, or in expectation of, a move. Other People Are Reading.
If you get Social Security benefits, you can change your Medicare address online at the Social Security website. If you change your address online, you will be asked a series of questions to verify your identity. Your answers must match the information Social Security has in its records. You can only change your address online if you have established a permanent password, which can be created by visiting My Social Security. If you do not want to answer the questions online or you do not have a permanent password, you cannot submit a change of address online.
You may report a change of name or address for the Medicare program by calling the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 or by visiting your local field office. Addresses and directions to the Social Security field offices may be obtained from the Social Security Office Locator. 
Online Option. The easiest way to change your address with the SSA is through your online account. If you don’t already have an account, you can create one in a few minutes at no charge on the SSA website. Log on, select My Profile, and follow the address change prompts. SSI and Expatriate Options. The online option is open to people getting retirement or survivor’s benefits, Social Security Disability Insurance and Medicare. If you get Supplemental Security Income, you can check the address online, but you can't change it there. You'll need to call Social Security at 800-772-1213. If you live abroad and don’t have a U.S. mailing address, you'll have to get it down at the federal benefits office at the nearest U.S. embassy
1 Click on the “Address Change Online” link to start your address change process with Social Security office. 2  If you do not have your Social Security password to access your account, click on the “Change my address without a Social Security password” button to start your filing process. You cannot report your change of address to the Social Security office online or via phone if: 1  If you have a foreign, APO, or FPO address. 2  If you receive Supplemental Security Income, you cannot use this online service.
Step-by-Step Instruction. 1  Click on the “Address Change Online” link to start your address change process with Social Security office. 2  If you do not have your Social Security password to access your account, click on the “Change my address without a Social Security password” button to start your filing process. You cannot report your change of address to the Social Security office online or via phone if: 1  If you have a foreign, APO, or FPO address. 2  If you receive Supplemental Security Income, you cannot use this online service.
1. Report your change of address to the Social Security Administration (SSA) if you are receiving social Security. It’s the best way to make sure you continue to receive your government benefits without interruption. 2. Change your address online. 
Social Security Official Social Security Website. If you get Social Security benefits or are enrolled in Medicare, change your address online by using your my Social Security account. If you get Supplemental Security Income or you do not have a U.S. mailing address, you can: 