The Shortcomings of CCD. The fact that CMOS sensors are capable of performing some of the heavy lifting themselves--image-processing tasks such as analog-to-digital conversion and noise reduction--gives the sensor technology an edge over CCD (charge-coupled device) sensors when it comes to speed. 
More: CMOS sensor's sensitivity are normally in the range of 6 to 15 lux. CMOS sensor have 10 times more fix pattern noise then CCD sensor. Fixed pattern noise is the kind of noise that stay on screen as if there is a patterned. CMOS sensor can be made very big and have same sensitivity as CCD sensor. CMOS sensor are very fast, it is 10 ~100 times faster then CCD sensor, so it is very good for special application such as high ens DSC camera (Cannon D-30) or fast frame camera.
Today, most digital still cameras use a CMOS sensor because CMOS sensor technology has leapfrogged CCDs in recent years. CCD is still in use for cheap low entry cameras, but weak in burst mode. Both types of sensor accomplish the same task of capturing light and converting it into electrical signals. CMOS sensors can potentially be implemented with fewer components, use less power, and/or provide faster readout than CCD sensors. CCD is a more mature technology and is in most respects the equal of CMOS. CMOS sensors are less expensive to manufacture
Complementary metal–oxide–semiconductor (CMOS) /ˈsiːmɒs/ is a technology for constructing integrated circuits. CMOS technology is used in microprocessors, microcontrollers, static RAM, and other digital logic circuits. CMOS technology is also used for several analog circuits such as image sensors (CMOS sensor), data converters, and highly integrated transceivers for many types of communication. 
CMOS uses a slightly different technology from CCD, another type of image sensor found in digital cameras. CMOS is becoming the more popular type of technology because of its low power consumption and speed. Also Known As: complementary metal-oxide semiconductor sensor. The complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) sensor consists of millions of pixel sensors, each of which includes a photodetector. As light enters the camera through the lens, it strikes the CMOS sensor, which causes each photodetector to accumulate an electric charge based on the amount of light that strikes it.
Definition: A CMOS sensor is a type of image sensor inside a digital camera consisting of an integrated circuit that records an image. The complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) sensor consists of millions of pixel sensors, each of which includes a photodetector. As light enters the camera through the lens, it strikes the CMOS sensor, which causes each photodetector to accumulate an electric charge based on the amount of light that strikes it.
A major advantage that CMOS image sensors enjoy over their CCD counterparts is the ability to integrate a number of processing and control functions, which lie beyond the primary task of photon collection, directly onto the sensor integrated circuit. 
Both CCD (charge-coupled device) and CMOS (complementary metal-oxide semiconductor) image sensors start at the same point -- they have to convert light into electrons. If you have read the article How Solar Cells Work, you understand one technology that is used to perform the conversion. 
CCD and CMOS are two types of image sensors used in digital video cameras. The technology of each varies, and some users find there is a noticeable difference between their image qualities. Pixels in CCD sensors are committed to capturing light. 
Q: What is CMOS camera. What is it different from CCD camera. A: CMOS sensor is a kind of sensor that is normally 10 times less sensitivity then CCD sensor. As human eye can see object under 1 lux illumination (full moon night). CCD sensor normally will see better or as good as human eye in the range of 0.1 ~3 lux and are 3 to 10 times more sensitive then CMOS sensor. CMOS sensor can be made very big and have same sensitivity as CCD sensor. CMOS sensor are very fast, it is 10 ~100 times faster then CCD sensor, so it is very good for special application such as high ens DSC camera (Cannon D-30) or fast frame camera.