TSH Range. The function of thyroid stimulating hormone (or TSH) is to regulate the normal levels of thyroid hormones in the body. It is a peptide hormone secreted by the thyrotrope cells of anterior pituitary gland. The TSH activates the thyroid gland to produce both Triiodothyronine(T3) and thyroxine (T4) hormones. 1 It is suggestive of the development of resistance to thyroid hormone. 2  Above normal TSH range is also evident in veterinary doctors or laboratory workers, who are exposed to mice. 3  High TSH range is a warning sign of Cretinism.
Normal TSH Level. The normal thyroid level for TSH for labs in UK is 0.5 to 5.5 mIU/L (milli-international units per liter). Labs in the U.S. followed the same reference scale until 2003. In spring 2003, the scale was revised to new standards, which specified 0.3 to 3.3 mIU/L as normal TSH level. The under activity of these hormones results in hypothyroidism while hyperthyroidism, is an outcome of over-activity of T3 and T4 hormones. The levels of T3 and T4 in the body are determined by another hormone called Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH). This hormone is secreted by the pituitary gland.
If the T4 is in the low (but still ‘normal’) range and the T3 is to the right of it in the low but normal range, it means that the T4 is converting to T3 at a high rate (more T3, less RT3). This is typically found when the thyroid gland is unable to keep up T4 production to meet the body’s needs. In the cases of Free T4 (FT4) and Free T3 (FT3), the optimal zone is roughly half way between the usual lab normal Low-High values. Note that the normal range for these hormones may change a bit from lab to lab. In the case of TSH, the optimal zone is skewed far toward the low end of the standard lab Low-High range.
1 The range of normal TSH levels for full term newborns is higher, as it can range from between 1.3 and 16 micro units per ML of blood. 2  The TSH range gradually reduces to 0.9 to 7.7 micro units per milliliter after 30 days. 3  The TSH narrows to 0.6 to 5.5 micro units per milliliter in school going children. 1 It is suggestive of the development of resistance to thyroid hormone. 2  Above normal TSH range is also evident in veterinary doctors or laboratory workers, who are exposed to mice. 3  High TSH range is a warning sign of Cretinism.
Thyroid gland is an endocrine gland which secretes two types of hormones, T3 and T4. These hormones are concerned with the regulation of metabolism in human body. The under activity of these hormones results in hypothyroidism while hyperthyroidism, is an outcome of over-activity of T3 and T4 hormones. The levels of T3 and T4 in the body are determined by another hormone called Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH). This hormone is secreted by the pituitary gland.
Thyroxine is also known as T4 because it contains four iodine atoms, according to thyroid.com. Most T4 is transported in the bloodstream by proteins, and the liver converts T4 into T3. A typical normal range, says Medline Plus, is 4.5 to 11.2 micrograms per deciliter. T3 Blood Test. Triiodothyronine, or T3, plays an important, active role in metabolism. T3 is normally present in very small amounts, but has a significant impact. The range for normal values is 100 to 200 nanograms per deciliter, according to Medline Plus.
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. 
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. 
The following six cases discuss what to do in some common situations when thyroid test results are abnormal. Case 1. You are evaluating a child for short stature (or fatigue, or a positive family history of thyroid disease), and find that the free T4 is mid-normal, but the TSH is 0.3 (lab normal range 0.5-5.5). 