Adjust screen brightness. More is your screen brightness more your iPhone consumes power. So adjust your screen brightness to the lower level where you can easily see your screen without any problem. This will help you to make battery last longer. Or otherwise you can use auto brightness option in iPhone because it automatically adjust brightness according to the surrounding. But I personally think it’s better to use first option that I tell you. Turn off your iPhone screen instantly after using. Turning-off screen immediately after using your iPhone or iPad can save a lot of your battery power. And believe me it’s very simple to do it. You just have to push the sleep/wake button which is on the upper side of iPhone and this will turn off you screen
Using your computer. If you want to charge your iPod using your computer, make sure that your computer is on, isn't sleeping (refer to the computer's manual to learn how to prevent your computer from sleeping while your iPod charges), and that the USB or FireWire port you use provides power. Your iPod displays a battery icon in the upper-right corner of the screen to show about how much charge is left. If you have an iPod classic that is asleep while being charged, a larger version of the same icon appears in the center of the screen. If you have an iPod shuffle, use the status light to check the charge
How to Make Your iPod Last Longer. A portable media player means you have a battery with limited recharge cycles as well as constantly exposing it to hostile conditions. Here are some tips on how to make your iPod (or any other PMP) last longer. Ad. 
The iPod Touch has a battery life of around 4-5 hours when simply browsing through your music collection or looking at photos, and about 3-4 hours when using Wi-Fi. If you need it to last longer, try a few of these tips. Ad. 
This is the first video in the Season 2 playlist!! Here is a video on how to extend your iPod touch or iPhone battery. Twitter: http://twitter.com/chilliwilly1000/. Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/chilliwilly1000. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License.
Here is a video showing you a few easy ways to make your iPod Nano (4th Gen.) last a lot longer. In the video I say 45 minuets, but I don't mean it. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
I bought this ipod touch last week, It is new, but battery so bad, can you show me how to how to make longer. 
Charging the battery. You can charge your iPod battery by connecting it to an Apple iPod Power Adapter or by connecting it to a high-power USB port (or FireWire port, if applicable) on your computer. Your iPod displays a battery icon in the upper-right corner of the screen to show about how much charge is left. If you have an iPod classic that is asleep while being charged, a larger version of the same icon appears in the center of the screen. If you have an iPod shuffle, use the status light to check the charge