The vessels that bring blood to the heart are called the coronary arteries. They are like narrow tubes. A fatty substance called plaque (say this: plak) can build up in these arteries and make them narrow, so less blood gets to the heart. This is called coronary artery disease (CAD). If you have CAD, your heart is not getting the blood and oxygen it needs to work like it should. CAD can lead to serious health problems, including angina (pain or pressure in the chest) and heart attack. Several things increase your risk for CAD, including high blood pressure, smoking, diabetes, obesity, being male, a family history of the disease, and a high cholesterol level
atherosclerosis is a condition where plaque builds up in your arteries. This can narrow the artery, reducing blood flow and oxygen perfusion. In the case of the coronary … system this reduced perfusion can lead to chest pain or a heart attack. If you have coronary heart disease you must take care of your diet, you may want to exercise a little bit more than you do, you may also want to stop eating really fatty foods, or at least cut down on them, you may want to increase your fibre intake and eat an adequate amount of fresh fruit and vegetables.
You can prevent and control many coronary heart disease (CHD) risk factors with lifestyle changes and medicines. Examples of these controllable risk factors include high blood cholesterol, high blood pressure, and overweight and obesity. 
Causes of heart disease. Coronary heart disease (CHD) is usually caused by a build-up of fatty deposits on the walls of the arteries around the heart (coronary arteries). The fatty deposits, called atheroma, are made up of cholesterol and other waste substances. Cholesterol. Cholesterol is a fat made by the liver from the saturated fat in your diet. Cholesterol is essential for healthy cells, but too much in the blood can lead to CHD. Cholesterol is carried in the bloodstream by molecules called lipoproteins.
Other diseases and conditions contribute to risk of coronary heart disease. High blood pressure makes the heart work harder and weakens it over time. Diabetes mellitus can be a serious risk for coronary heart disease and cardiovascular disease, which includes other disease to other arteries throughout the body. If the arteries are unable to expand because of coronary artery disease, the heart is deprived of oxygen. The heart muscle can”t work properly without oxygen. The reduced blood flow and oxygen supply may cause angina, which is pain in the chest. It also may cause shortness of breath or other symptoms.
Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your coronary arteries -- a condition called atherosclerosis -- that leads to blockages. The arteries, which start out smooth and elastic, become narrow and rigid, restricting blood flow to the heart. A. A. A. Coronary artery disease, also called coronary heart disease, or simply, heart disease, is the No. 1 killer in America, affecting more than 13 million Americans. Heart disease is a result of plaque buildup in your arteries, which blocks blood flow and heightens the risk for heart attack and stroke.
If you have coronary heart disease you must take care of your diet, you may want to exercise a little bit more than you do, you may also want to stop eating really fatty foods, or at least cut down on them, you may want to increase your fibre intake and eat an adequate amount of fresh fruit and vegetables. CHD is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the coronary arteries. These arteries supply your heart muscle with oxygen-rich blood.   Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances found in the blood. When plaque builds up in the arteries, the condition is called atherosclerosi
Other risk factors can be affected by diet and lifestyle changes. Smoking is a big contributor to coronary heart disease. Not only do smokers have a risk two to four times that of nonsmokers of developing coronary heart disease, but they also have a higher risk of heart attack from the disease. If the arteries are unable to expand because of coronary artery disease, the heart is deprived of oxygen. The heart muscle can”t work properly without oxygen. The reduced blood flow and oxygen supply may cause angina, which is pain in the chest. It also may cause shortness of breath or other symptoms.