Alternatively, store whole vanilla bean in a jar of caster sugar and allow 3-4 weeks for the flavor to permeate into the sugar completely. This fragrant rich vanilla-sugar can be employed in cakes, puddings, pies and ice-creams. Real vanilla is pleasantly aromatic and a very expensive spice only after saffron. Vanilla beans are pleasantly fragrant fruit pods obtained from the tropical climbing orchid, V. planifolia. Mayans were the early persons to use them to flavor chocolate drinks centuries before the Spanish first set their foot on Mexico in 1520.
Vanilla is a flavor derived from orchids of the genus Vanilla, primarily from the Mexican species, flat-leaved vanilla (V. planifolia). The word vanilla, derived from the diminutive of the Spanish word vaina (vaina itself meaning sheath or pod), translates simply as little pod. The majority of the world's vanilla is the V. planifolia species, more commonly known as Bourbon vanilla (after the former name of Reunion, Île Ile) île Bourbon or, madagascar vanilla which is Produced in madagascar and neighboring islands in The Southwestern, indian ocean And. in indonesia
Vanilla is one of those powerful ingredients we use all the time, but probably take for granted. Whether it's vanilla extract in your chocolate chip cookies or scraped vanilla beans for custard or ice cream, vanilla is called for in all kinds of recipes. With so many uses and so many different types of vanilla -- from Bourbon to Mexican -- vanilla is an omnipresent ingredient whose value cannot be overstated. 
A long, thin pod that is the fruit of one variety of orchid. Vanilla beans have a sweet, perfumed aroma with a woody or smoky flavor. Pure vanilla is relatively expensive because the growth and harvesting process is labor-intensive and time-consuming. The pods are hand picked and dipped immediately in boiling water to halt their growth. 
Indonesia is the second largest producer of vanilla beans, with a vanilla that is woody, astringent and phenolic. Madagascar and Indonesia produce 90 percent of the world's vanilla bean crop. Mexico, where the vanilla orchid originated, now produces only a small percentage of the harvest. 
Vanilla extract is made by macerating vanilla beans in a mixture of alcohol and water. When purchasing a bottle, avoid the imitation versions as they they tend to have a weaker, often tinny aftertaste. Splurge for the real stuff here. Pin it. When it comes to baking with vanilla, there are choices: pure vanilla extract, vanilla paste, and vanilla beans. There's also vanilla sugar and infused vanilla syrups; the list goes on and on.
Directions. If vanilla bean is whole, slice down side of bean with back of knife and scrape seeds into airtight container with the sugar. Bury bean in sugar and seal tightly with lid. Let sit for 1 to 2 weeks. Use as regular, granulated sugar. 
Speaking of splurges, vanilla beans, while on the pricier side, are the ultimate in flavoring and scenting baked goods. Vanilla beans consist of an almost waxy dark brown pod filled with thousands of little brown flavorful specks. When purchasing them, you want to make sure the beans are plump and smooth, never dry. Pin it. When it comes to baking with vanilla, there are choices: pure vanilla extract, vanilla paste, and vanilla beans. There's also vanilla sugar and infused vanilla syrups; the list goes on and on.
1 Pour the sugar into an airtight container. 2  If the vanilla bean is whole, slice it halfway through the long way, open up the bean, and use a spoon or kitchen knife to scrape out the black gooey specks. 3  Stir the specks into the sugar, and bury the bean pod in the sugar. Prep. Ready In. 1 