The number for Amtrak's customer service line is 1-800-USA-RAIL, which is 1-800-872-7245. See the Related Link below for the Amtrak home page. + 3 others found this useful. Amanda Luster. Example Think of how you could divide up a batch of 10-digit numbers beginning with 200 (i.e. 200xxxxxxx). Option 1: You could use all the numbers for a large city. (200) 000 0000 to 999 9999 That uses 7-digit local phone numbers, giving 10 million possible numbers.
Below is a list of toll free 800 numbers for Amtrak. Amtrak Reservations & Customer Service :1-800-666-394-4726 (1-800-MONEYGRAM). 1  Hey I am Julie, Amtrak’s automated agent. 2  To check if a particular train is running on time say train status. 3  to get schedule and price information say schedules, 1 for new or existing reservations say reservations. 2  You can also say it something else. 3  Reservations. 4  Great, if you are calling about a reservation you have already made say I already have a reservation otherwise I will be able to help you book seats on any Amtrak train; let’s get started.
We understand that the holidays are a busy time to travel, but since Amtrak has been doing this for 40 years, surely customer service could actually exist and not be an oxymoron. That will be our last train ride. On June 5 I was aboard Train No. 4 from Galesburg to Chicago. Your employee, Roger, who helped with my luggage and getting me a seat was wonderful. He even got food, etc., from the cafe and served it to the travelers and would not accept a tip.
1 Hey I am Julie, Amtrak’s automated agent. 2  To check if a particular train is running on time say train status. 3  to get schedule and price information say schedules, 4  for new or existing reservations say reservations. 5  You can also say it something else. 6  Reservations. 1 for new or existing reservations say reservations. 2  You can also say it something else. 3  Reservations. 4  Great, if you are calling about a reservation you have already made say I already have a reservation otherwise I will be able to help you book seats on any Amtrak train; let’s get started.
225 W. Canal St. Amtrak Lost & Found: 312-655-2108 312-322-6777 » metrarail.com Metra Lost & Found: 312-322-4269. 312-655-2481 events@chicagounionstation.com. PLEASE NOTE: Due to renovations we are not accepting any new private events at this time. Please check back later. For info on promotional events, new product launches or filming please contact: 312-655-2481 events@chicagounionstation.com. Click here to download a PDF of the station guide to food, services & information.
Write down the date and time of departure along with the train ticket number when the automated system repeats it to you. Ask the system to repeat the information to verify you recorded it correctly. Step 8. Tell the system your Amtrak rewards number if you have one. Give your name as it appears on your photo identification, your address and your phone number. Step 9. Tell the system your debit or credit card information to finalize your reservation and purchase your tickets. Pick up your tickets at the station upon departure.
She would not give the local phone number to the Amtrak ticket office in St. Paul to avoid this red tape and deal with Amtrak directly to purchase tickets at the St. PaUL Union Depot. Amtrak-I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new. I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new parking system has been installed. This requires a vehicle license number which is new.
Julie the on line service totally useless, too many questions which get you no where. The person that finally answered on the USA Rail (Amtrak) phone number also not convenient in assisting with purchasing tickets for round trip travel. Amtrak-I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new. I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new parking system has been installed. This requires a vehicle license number which is new.
Please click on the number of stars to award for the company's customer service. Please do not enter personal information into the comments. Amtrak-I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new. I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new parking system has been installed. This requires a vehicle license number which is new.
Amtrak-Just recently I purchased train tickets for a. Just recently I purchased train tickets for a Russian friend, who speaks very little English. I have made calls now for his train trip from southern FL. to NYC in May and two tickets for him and his wife from NYC to Toronto round trip on June 2. Amtrak-I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new. I am at the Lancaster PA station where a new parking system has been installed. This requires a vehicle license number which is new.