A: Yes, you will have to study pharmacology in LPN degree programs. This subject is an important part of all LPN degree programs. To earn an LPN degree, it is important that you complete all the subjects in the curriculum, including pharmacology. The curriculum of online and campus based programs are the same. A: The duration of the LPN degree and the associates degree vary. The LPN course can be completed within one year whereas the associates degree takes a minimum of two years to be completed. However, when both these programs are opted in an online program, there is no set criteria of the degree completion duration.
The minimum GPA requirement for most programs is a 2.5. However, due to the highly competitive nature of receiving a spot in a licensed practical nursing program, applicants with the highest GPAs tend to get first priority in the admissions process. A number of licensed practical nursing programs do require that applicants take a specified number of prerequisite classes. These classes tend to be science and mathematics classes, for example: 1  Medical Terminology. 2  Anatomy and Physiology. 3  Biology. 4  Freshman Intro Classes.
The tuition fee of an LPN program depends on the type of school you are enrolled at. For public colleges, the program can run for as low as $740 per semester. For private universities, it can reach up to $2,500 per semester. 1 LPN to RN Bridge Programs – This program is tailor-made for students who wish to attain an RN license. 2  It usually entails an additional year of study to complete an associate’s degree in nursing. 3  After that, students are to sit for the NCLEX-RN to obtain the RN license. 4  Learn More.
LPN Entrance Exam. Admission into the LPN Program at Jersey College requires a minimum proficiency on our Entrance Exam. Scoring on this exam determines your entering skill level and allows the school to place you appropriately.
Several LPN programs are available in every state with tuition ranging from $1,000 to $15,000 depending on the program. Although some program options are noteworthy, not all meet the criteria for approval by your state's Board of Nursing, the governmental agency that regulates nursing and determines license eligibility. College Based LPN Programs. This option can become expensive, costing anywhere from $3,500 to $15,000, but this option is ideal for those who cannot handle an intensive one-year program of study. Several pre-requisite courses are required, including biology, chemistry, psychology, anatomy, physiology and math.
In order to be accepted into an LPN program, most schools require a high school diploma with a GPA of at least 2.0 or a GED certificate. You will need to show proof of citizenship, and if English is your second language provide official results of your TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) test. 1 You want to choose a school that has a high “pass rate”. 2  School Accreditation-There are two organizations that can accredit LPN schools. 3  They are the National League of Nursing Accrediting Agency (NLNAC). 4  This accreditation status means that the schools meets the standards for LPN set by the agency.
High School Diploma or GED. Before being able to apply for admission to an accredited licensed practical nursing program, it is essential for the applicant to have completed high school and to have received a diploma. A number of licensed practical nursing programs do require that applicants take a specified number of prerequisite classes. These classes tend to be science and mathematics classes, for example: 1  Medical Terminology. 2  Anatomy and Physiology. 3  Biology. 4  Freshman Intro Classes.
Admission to the LPN program is competitive, and applicants are ranked according to total number of college credits and grades in their pre-major courses, especially math and science. 1  Programs Offered: Practical Nursing Certificate. 2  Tuition & Fees (2012-2013) : $14,370, in-state; $18,000, out-of-state*. 
The LPN program requires the PAX-PN exam (National League for Nursing Pre-Admission Examination). The ADN program requires the HESI Admission Assessment Exam. The C.O.D. Library contains a variety of print and electronic resources that will assist with examination preparation. 
1 Cost-An LPN program can range in price from $4000 - $20,000 for the entire program. 2  Cost may be more or less of an issue for you. 3  Usually you get what you pay for but now always! 4  Location-If you wish to keep costs low, you may want to choose an LPN program near home. 1 You want to choose a school that has a high “pass rate”. 2  School Accreditation-There are two organizations that can accredit LPN schools. 3  They are the National League of Nursing Accrediting Agency (NLNAC). 4  This accreditation status means that the schools meets the standards for LPN set by the agency.