Some sponges have sexes, but most are hermaphrodites, or are sexless. A sponge can reproduce asexually through budding. However, most  sponges reproduce sexually by releasing sperm cells into the water  to fertilize ova. The fertilized eggs form larvae that swim away in  search of places to settle. Sponges can reproduce sexually and asexually. If a sponge reproduces asexually it does not need a, er, partner. It either budds (a small bud is formed on a sponge before it dr … ops from the sponge and becomes its own new sponge.) or regenerates.
Reproduction: Sponges reproduce both sexually and asexually. Sexual reproduction occurs by production of egg and sperm-in some species, this is from the same individual, in others, separate individuals produce eggs and sperm. Fertilization occurs when the gametes are brought into the sponge by currents of water. 
Giant Barrel sponge is one of the largest sponge's species found in the Caribbean. Barrel sponges are hermaphrodites. They have several methods of reproduction. Giant Barrel sponges can reproduce both sexually and asexually, for example if a piece of the sponges is broken off a new one will begin to grow. 
This helps keep them alive in their habitats. Most sponges are both male and female. In sexual reproduction, they may play either role. The ‘male’ sponge would release sperm into the water, which would travel and then enter a ‘female’ sponge. After fertilization in the sponge, a larva is released into the water.
The barrel sponge can reproduce it reproduces asexually it buds off and then where ever it lands it sticks there grows roots and does it all over again. Sponges are reproduced asexually by process of budding, which have great power of regeneration and sexually sponges are produced by gametes formation method.
Sponges are also able to reproduce asexually through budding. This is when a small piece of sponge is broken off but is still able to survive and grow into another sponge. Sponges are also able to repair damages to their bodies. This helps keep them alive in their habitats. Most sponges are both male and female. In sexual reproduction, they may play either role. The ‘male’ sponge would release sperm into the water, which would travel and then enter a ‘female’ sponge. After fertilization in the sponge, a larva is released into the water.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The giant barrel sponge (Xestospongia muta) is the largest species of sponge found growing on Caribbean coral reefs. It is common at depths greater than 10 metres (33 ft) down to 120 metres (390 ft) and can reach a diameter of 1.8 metres (6 feet). The giant barrel sponge is probably dioecious, and spawns its eggs or sperm directly into the water column. Clouds of sperm from males are emitted from the osculum, while females produce flocculent masses of eggs that are slightly negatively buoyant.
Sponges are also able to reproduce asexually through budding. This is when a small piece of sponge is broken off but is still able to survive and grow into another sponge. Sponges are also able to repair damages to their bodies. In sexual reproduction, they may play either role. The ‘male’ sponge would release sperm into the water, which would travel and then enter a ‘female’ sponge. After fertilization in the sponge, a larva is released into the water.
Although they may look plant-like, sponges are the simplest of multi-cellular animals. A sponge is a bottom-dwelling creature which attaches itself to something solid in a place where it can, hopefully, receive enough food to grow. The scientific term for sponges is Porifera which literally means pore-bearing.. 