The adrenal glands are orange-colored endocrine glands which are located on the top of both kidneys. The adrenal glands are triangular shaped and measure about one-half inch in height and 3 inches in length. Each gland consists of a medulla (the center of the gland) which is surrounded by the cortex. 
The adrenal glands, located on the top of each kidney, are responsible for releasing different classes of hormones. The outer part of the gland, called the adrenal cortex, produces the hormones cortisol (pronounced KAWR-tuh-sohl) and aldosterone (pronounced al-DOS-tuh-rohn). The inner part of the gland, called the adrenal medulla (pronounced muh-DUHL-uh), produces the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline.
The cortex is located on the outer layer of the adrenal gland and makes a number of different hormones that help control the heart, kidneys, GI tract, bones, genitalia, and immune system. These hormones control carbohydrate metabolism, muscular integrity, hemodynamic changes, and sexual maturity. The medulla is located in the center of the gland and makes adrenalineAdrenaline-the hormone that helps control the fight or flight response and puts the body on high alert (also known as epinephrine) and noradrenaline. These hormones are also known as epinephrine and norepinephrine
The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys and consist of a series of layers with different structure and functions. Each gland has an outer cortex which produces steroid hormones and an inner medulla. The adrenal cortex itself is divided into three zones: zona glomerulosa, the zona fasciculata and the zona reticularis. The adrenal cortex produces a class of steroid hormones called corticosteroids, named according to their effects.
1 The adrenal cortex—the outer part of the gland—produces hormones that are vital to life, such as cortisol (which helps regulate metabolism and helps your body respond to stress) and aldosterone (which helps control blood pressure). Hormones of the Adrenal Glands. The adrenal cortex and the adrenal medulla have very different functions. One of the main distinctions between them is that the hormones released by the adrenal cortex are necessary for life; those secreted by the adrenal medulla are not.
These are produced within the inside portion of the adrenal glands, called the medulla. These hormones help to regulate your reaction to stress. Cortisol also helps regulate your metabolism, sugar levels, and blood pressure. The adrenal glands are controlled by the pituitary gland, another part of the endocrine system. Located in the head, this is the main controller of endocrine glands. Abnormal signals can disrupt the amount of hormones the pituitary gland tells the adrenal glands to produce
Each person has two adrenal glands, one above each kidney. Each adrenal is small weighing about 15grams. The adrenal produces four major types of hormones; 1. Glucocorticoids.- the major one is known as cortisol. Cortisol is important to maintain life and to protect against stress. One of its major functions is to raise blood glucose level by both increasing production and reducing usage.
Epinephrine. Epinephrine and norepinephrine, more commonly called adrenaline and noradrenaline, are produced by the adrenal medulla. These are hormones that increase heart rate, glucose levels and oxygen in the body, while suppressing non-essential bodily functions. Endocrine glands, such as the adrenal glands, directly influence the body by secreting into the blood, rather than through an intermediary, such as a glandular duct.The adrenal glands are composed of two major components: the adrenal medulla and the adrenal cortex.
Diseases of the adrenal glands usually are caused by either too much or too little of any of these hormones. Adrenal insufficiency occurs when the adrenal gland is not producing enough hormones and is also called Addison's diseaseAddison's disease-a disease where not enough of the adrenal hormones are being made. The medulla is located in the center of the gland and makes adrenalineAdrenaline-the hormone that helps control the fight or flight response and puts the body on high alert (also known as epinephrine) and noradrenaline. These hormones are also known as epinephrine and norepinephrin