0 1000 km MediterraneanSea AtlanticOcean NSWE Physical Map of Western Europe Where and How Didthe Renaissance Spread? Renaissance ideas that developed in Italy gradually spread to westernand northern Europe towards the end of the 15th century. Althoughthe rest of Europe experienced its Renaissance later than Italy, theeffects were just as significant. 
The Renaissance (UK /rɨˈneɪsəns/ , US /ˈrɛnɨsɑːns/) is a period in Europe, from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy. It is generally known that Renaissance matured in Northern Europe later, in the 16th century.
The renaissance began in Italy earlier than it occurred in the rest of Western Europe. The cities of Florence, Genoa, and Venice supported the Arts to an extent unknown … in the rest of Europe. The Renaissance would begin a few centuries later in Western Europe but at that point, creativity in art, music, and science would slowly leave Italy and move north. 1 Famous Painters of Northern Renaissance Art The Renaissance started in Italy in the late 14th century and spread to other regions of Europe. 2  Northern Renaissance is the cultural movement that took place in Northern Eur…. 3  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history
The European Renaissance began in Northern Italy in the 14th century. The Tuscan city of Florence is considered the birthplace of the Renaissance. Gradually, the movement spread from Italy to other parts of Europe. The period of European history referred to as the Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. Generally speaking, the Renaissance spanned from the 14th to the 16th centuries, spreading across Europe from its birthplace in Italy.
Introduction. There are several reasons why the Renaissance came later to Northern Europe. First, it was further removed from the centers of trade and culture in the Mediterranean. As a result, towns, trade, and the more progressive ideas that tend to come with wealth developed more slowly in the north. All these factors came together to produce the Northern Renaissance (c.1500-1600). The Northern Renaissance should not be seen as a mere copycat of the Italian Renaissance. There were two major differences between the two cultural movements in Italy and the North.
For Michelet, the Renaissance was more a development in science than in art and culture. He asserted that it spanned the period from Columbus to Copernicus to Galileo; that is, from the end of the 15th century to the middle of the 17th century. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy. It is generally known that Renaissance matured in Northern Europe later, in the 16
The Northern Renaissance was the Renaissance that occurred in Europe north of the Alps. Before 1497, Italian Renaissance humanism had little influence outside Italy. From the late 15th century, its ideas spread around Europe. This influenced the German Renaissance, French Renaissance, English Renaissance, Renaissance in the Low Countries, Polish Renaissance and other national and localized movements, each with different characteristics and strengths. The Northern Renaissance was also closely linked to the Protestant Reformation with the resulting long series of internal and external conflicts between various Protestant groups and the Roman Catholic Church having lasting effects.
1. The Southern Renaissance began during the 14th century while the Northern Renaissance was believed to have started during the 16th century. 2. The Northern Part of Europe is strongly attached to Christianity and the church.