Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation. 
It's kind of like the word ow! which is often used to express that one feels pain. oof!, which is much less commonly spoken than ow!, is used sometimes as an exclamation if one has fallen (usu. to the ground) or bumped into something. oof does not mean the same thing as ow!; it doesn't quite mean anything but if anything it would be something like Ahh, I fell!. You'll mostly hear it in cartoons and from the children who watch them; not many people actually say oof when they fall/bump into things. I understand it can mean out of office but is there another meaning that's not an acronym. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines.
What does oof stand for when texting? 1  33% - Heywhat does pk stand for in texting?read more: what does pk stand for in texting-what does pk stands for in abbreviations for texting :: a? 2  84% - What does tvs stand for in texting? 3  82% - What`s lvl stand for when texting? 4  84% - What does imy stand for in texting? 5  80% - What does yrh stand for when 6  ... 5 1. 1. I think it is a typo, my friend sent me `Mgm and I replied what and then he said mhm So I think he meant mhm. the letters h and g on the keyboard are close together, I could see how that mistake good be made.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. 
Definition of OOF. variant of ouf. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
1 I know a place on earth we can go, if you guys can-oof! 2  Well you see he has some issues with some guy and we have some and-oof! 3  She closed her eyes, trying to make it all go away and force herself awake, when she ran straight into a soft something that went oof! Example sentences. 1 
1 When you've got that much oof, he said, it's hard to spend it, and he and his other senior execs spend an incredible number of hours in the day working for the firm. 2  Strike while the iron's hot and save yourself some oof. Example sentences. 1  I know a place on earth we can go, if you guys can-oof! 2  Well you see he has some issues with some guy and we have some and-oof! 3  She closed her eyes, trying to make it all go away and force herself awake, when she ran straight into a soft something that went oof!
That can be frustrating and/or embarrassing, but it's no problem! You came to the right place to find out what OOF means.OOF means: Out Of Facility PS. We shorten and abbreviate words and sentences everywhere these days. 
Out Of OFFice or Out Of Facility. Used in companies to indicate that an employee will not be in the office at a particular time/day. Commonly used at Microsoft, but also used in other businesses and industries. James is OOF on Friday, so let's set the meeting for Thursday afternoon.. 