Boil the beets until they are tender if you are storing them cooked. Peel the beets and remove any remaining stems after cooking. Keep cooked beets in the refrigerator in a sealed container or sealed plastic bag for up to one week. By cutting them off, the beets can be stored longer since they will be absorbing all the moisture. Leave about 2-inch stems on the beets, and store them in the crisper in your refrigerator for up to four weeks. Do not wash them first.
The correct place to store beets is in the fruit and vegetable drawer of your refrigerator. I’ve stored raw unpeeled beets in the refrigerator for as long as two weeks, and they were perfectly fresh. I prefer to store beets in the plastic bag that they came in from the store. I like to puncture a few holes in the bag to let the air in. If you store the beets in the refrigerator without a bag, they tend to lose moisture and get a little soft and wrinkled.
I have a jar which I recently bought and that is the date they have on them. If the beets have been opened and the seal is broken they will still last at least 6 months to a year in the refrigerator. I keep beets in my refrigerator all the time...along with my pickles. I have never thrown any out and I know I have had them for at least 4 to 6 months, on occasion. tips: Beets go great with mac and cheese, fried potatoes, and salmon
Tips. 1  Store in plastic bag in the refrigerator; do not wash before refrigerating. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags. 1 To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.
How to store: Before refrigerating, separate the beets from the leaves. To keep the beets dry, store them and the leaves, unwashed, in separate plastic bags in the vegetable drawer. Shelf life: The leaves will last for only two to three days, but the beets can stay fresh for two to three weeks. Best uses: Small, young beets are tasty grated raw in salads. (Beet juice can stain, so protect your countertops.) All types are delicious steamed or boiled
Step 4. Boil the beets until they are tender if you are storing them cooked. Peel the beets and remove any remaining stems after cooking. Keep cooked beets in the refrigerator in a sealed container or sealed plastic bag for up to one week. You can also freeze cooked beets in a freezer-safe bag or container. By cutting them off, the beets can be stored longer since they will be absorbing all the moisture. Leave about 2-inch stems on the beets, and store them in the crisper in your refrigerator for up to four weeks. Do not wash them first.
1 Store in plastic bag in the refrigerator; do not wash before refrigerating. 2  To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags. 1 To freeze: (1) Wash beets and trim tops, leaving 1/2 inch of stem; (2) Cook beets until tender; (3) Cool then peel beets and cut into slices or cubes; (4) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags.
Place, covered, in the refrigerator. Let them sit in the refrigerator, maybe stirring once in a while, at least a week before eating them. Give the beets a chance to “pickle” and develop flavor before eating. These beets will last a long time in the refrigerator, probably 2 to 3 months. Contact Linda Stradley-By Google. What's Cooking America copyright 2004-2014 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. How to cook the beets: There are two (2) easy techniques for cooking fresh beets-Oven-Roasted Beets and Boiled Beets-Your choice: Oven-Roasted Fresh Beets: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place rack in middle of oven.
Cut off the greens and stems from freshly harvested beets if you are storing them in the refrigerator. By cutting them off, the beets can be stored longer since they will be absorbing all the moisture. Leave about 2-inch stems on the beets, and store them in the crisper in your refrigerator for up to four weeks. Do not wash them first.