The Obesity Society officially issued its support for classifying obesity as a disease in 2008, with Mr. Downey as one of the authors of the paper. The Internal Revenue Service has said that obesity treatments can qualify for tax deductions. To some extent, the question of whether obesity is a disease or not is a semantic one, since there is not even a universally agreed upon definition of what constitutes a disease. And the A.M.A.’s decision has no legal authority.
The classification of obesity as a disease comes as two new weight-loss drugs were approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The AMA hopes that the new classification will lead to even more new treatments for obesity, including medication. Reclassifying this is going to encourage greater investment and research. The decision came at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association (AMA). Though a committee of experts recommended against classifying obesity as a disease, the association's delegates voted to approve the change. And at a stroke, a third of the US population became diseased
A reason the AMA decided in favor of obesity as a disease is that it will decrease the stigma of obesity that comes from the widespread thought that it is just the outcome of excessive eating and not enough exercise. Doctors say some people do not have complete control of their weight. Those who did not agree with the change of classification cited that making obesity a disease would categorize one-third of Americans as being sick and may lead to more medication and surgeries that are expensive, instead of lifestyle changes.
“Recognizing obesity as a disease will help change the way the medical community tackles this complex issue that affects approximately one in three Americans,” Dr. Patrice Harris, a member of the association’s board, said in a statement. To some extent, the question of whether obesity is a disease or not is a semantic one, since there is not even a universally agreed upon definition of what constitutes a disease. And the A.M.A.’s decision has no legal authority.
Introduction. When the American Medical Association (AMA) voted on June 18 at its annual meeting to classify obesity as a disease, it set off conversations nationwide on how this might affect doctors in a variety of specialties. 
The American Medical Association has officially recognized obesity as a disease, a move that could induce physicians to pay more attention to the condition and spur more insurers to pay for treatments. To some extent, the question of whether obesity is a disease or not is a semantic one, since there is not even a universally agreed upon definition of what constitutes a disease. And the A.M.A.’s decision has no legal authority.
If obesity is not a disease then high blood pressure is not a disease. Defining something as a disease does not exclude sensible limits and common sense. For some reason we in the US simply cannot accept responsibility for our own actions. Obesity is a problem with lifestyle and is not a disease. We have to make ourselves accountable to that. Americans.... *facepalm*. One of the main problems here is the use of BMI. Sure it is easy and simple but that is really all that can be said for it.
Obesity has been officially recognized as a disease by the American Medical Association, an action that could put more emphasis on the health condition by doctors and insurance companies in order to minimize its effects. Those who did not agree with the change of classification cited that making obesity a disease would categorize one-third of Americans as being sick and may lead to more medication and surgeries that are expensive, instead of lifestyle changes.
Last week, the American Medical Association voted to classify obesity as a disease. In one day, 78 million American adults and 12 million American children were deemed to have a medical condition that needs treatment. The decision was controversial to say the least. In some ways, cataloging obesity as a disease is a way of conferring legitimacy: it is a condition, not a lapse in willpower; it warrants medical attention; it is worthy of insurance coverage. All of that is positive.