Scurvy is a disease that affects the blood vessels, skin, and the body’s healing process, resulting in anemia, hemorrhaging of the skin, and gum disease (gingivitis). Scurvy occurs when your diet is deficient in vitamin C. Scurvy is uncommon in the United States, and those most at risk are older adults and alcoholics suffering from malnutrition. Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning the body neither produces nor stores the vitamin.
Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C in your diet. If your body doesn't have enough vitamin C, it can't produce new collagen (a protein found in many different types of body tissue, including the skin and bones). Without a new supply of collagen, the body's tissue will begin to break down and deteriorate. 
Scurvy can be prevented by a diet that includes certain citrus fruits such as oranges or lemons. Other sources rich in vitamin C are fruits such as blackcurrants, guava, kiwifruit, papaya, tomatoes, bell peppers, and strawberries. In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow's disease, named after Sir Thomas Barlow, a British physician who described it in 1883.
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C. Scurvy often presents initially with fatigue, followed by formation of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes. In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow's disease, named after Sir Thomas Barlow, a British physician who described it in 1883.
Definition. Scurvy is a condition caused by a lack of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) in the diet. Signs of scurvy include tiredness, muscle weakness, joint and muscle aches, a rash on the legs, and bleeding gums. Scurvy is often diagnosed based on the symptoms present. A dietary history showing little or no fresh fruits or vegetables are eaten may help to diagnose vitamin C deficiency. A blood test can also be used to check the level of ascorbic acid in the body.
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency, until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data. In infants, scurvy is sometimes referred to as Barlow's disease, named after Sir Thomas Barlow, a British physician who described it in 1883.
Knowledge center. Scurvy is a disease caused by a diet that lacks vitamin C (ascorbic acid) . Patients develop anemia, debility, exhaustion, edema (swelling) in some parts of the body, and sometimes ulceration of the gums and loss of teeth. The name scurvy comes from the Latin scorbutus. We have known about the disease in humans since ancient Greek and Egyptian times. Scurvy commonly is associated with sailors in the 16th to 18th centuries who navigated long voyages without enough vitamin C and frequently perished from the condition.
Scurvy is a disease caused by a Vitamin C deficiency. It was common among early sailing ship crews who did not have a source of Vitamin C in their diets during long voyages. Scurvy presents itself as swollen bleeding gums and the opening of previously healed wounds. Scurvy is caused by lack of vitamin C. Vitamin C is found in fresh fruit and vegetables, which is a problem on sea voyages as fresh food does not keep.
scurvy. n. 1. (Pathology) a disease caused by a lack of vitamin C, characterized by anaemia, spongy gums, bleeding beneath the skin, and (in infants) malformation of bones and teeth. adj, -vier or-viest. 2. mean or despicable: a scurvy knave. [C16: see scurf]. (ˈskɜr vi). n., adj. -vi•er, -vi•est. n. adj
Scurvy: A disorder that is caused by lack of vitamin C. Symptoms include anemia; soft, bleeding gums; and bumps under the skin near muscles. Scurvy in early childhood can cause musculoskeletal problems. 