For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint a Ceiling ranges between $0.83 - $1.75 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. Cost to Paint a Ceiling-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors.
$4832 - $5330. Cost to paint house interior estimated as a charge for painting all rooms including closets and hallways. All prices calculated based on one coat of paint application on the ceilings and two coats of paint application on walls using a paint roller and brush with no custom work involved. Walls or ceiling surface preparation will be quoted separately. Custom painting of a room with a lot of details including combination of a few colors on a single wall will result in extra fees. Painting accent walls will be priced at additional $35 fee per wall on top of its regular cost stated in the chart.
On average, cost of basic single coat of paint application on walls and ceiling in one 150 ft 2 bedroom vary from $125 to $165 excluding paint expenses and actual prices will be determined by a number of factors. Walls or ceiling surface preparation will be quoted separately. Custom painting of a room with a lot of details including combination of a few colors on a single wall will result in extra fees. Painting accent walls will be priced at additional $35 fee per wall on top of its regular cost stated in the chart.
The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage. Return to Top. Accent walls allow a homeowner the chance to experiment with a new color. The average cost to paint a front door ranges from $100 - $300 per door. 1  Paint the door while it's still in the frame and on its hinge, or it might not fit back into place when you're finished. 2  You can also paint both sides more easily by leaving it on the hinges.
The average national cost to paint a small project is $628, with most homeowners spending between $353 and $908. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Painting an entire home -- or even an entire room -- can be an extensive and expensive undertaking. The average cost to paint a front door ranges from $100 - $300 per door. 1  Paint the door while it's still in the frame and on its hinge, or it might not fit back into place when you're finished. 2  You can also paint both sides more easily by leaving it on the hinges.
For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint a Wall ranges between $0.79 - $1.57 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 
Usually within one room ceiling is a one color, and walls are another. If walls in the same room have to be painted in different colors it will cost more. Applications of more than one color on one wall consider as a custom work and will increase total price as well. Walls or ceiling surface preparation will be quoted separately. Custom painting of a room with a lot of details including combination of a few colors on a single wall will result in extra fees. Painting accent walls will be priced at additional $35 fee per wall on top of its regular cost stated in the chart.
The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself. The average cost to paint a front door ranges from $100 - $300 per door. 1  Paint the door while it's still in the frame and on its hinge, or it might not fit back into place when you're finished. 2  You can also paint both sides more easily by leaving it on the hinges.
On average, expect to pay between $242 and $412 for professional painting services on the ceiling of a 50-square-foot room, a project that should take between five and six hours to complete. The larger the walls or ceiling, the more expensive your project will be. 
1 Interior paint itself costs anywhere from $12-$50 or more a gallon, depending on the quality. 2  Painting a 12x12-foot room, both walls and ceiling, can require $25-$100 worth of paint, plus $10-$50 for primer, brushes, rollers, drop clothes and other supplies. A rate of no less than $1.80/sf including materials is realistic, acceptable and more than fair for a qualified professional to paint rooms with 9' ceilings. Expect to pay $1 extra per square foot for 9'- 15' and $2.50 extra for 15' +. Some additional costs for extreme conditions will raise that amount.