From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Heishe or heishi (pronounced hee shee) are small disc-or tube-shaped beads made of organic shells or ground and polished stones. They come from the Kewa Pueblo People (formerly Santo Domingo Pueblo) of New Mexico, before the use of metals in jewelry by that people. 
Heishi Shell Beads. Heishi shell beads are small cut pieces of natural shell that have been strung into fine wire and grounded to a smooth, rounded shape. A good quality heishi beads strand has a uniform consistency that feels like a single continuous piece. Our top quality shell heishi beads are made of different Philippine sea shells like white clam, gold lip, pink rose, black lip, brown lip, hammer shell, and more. Sort By:
The literal meaning of heishi is shell and specifically refers to pieces of shell which have been drilled and ground into beads and then strung into necklaces. When one looks at a string of heishi, the first reaction is frequently how on earth can a person do that? or to be so perfect, it must be done by machines.. The truth is, if it seems exquisitely perfect, it was most likely made by the hands of a highly-skilled, extremely patient craftsperson.
Definition of HEISHI. : a bead made usually by North American Indians of disk-shaped shells, turquoise, or coral or of silver tubes. hei·shi or hei·she \ˈhēshē\. ADVERTISEMENT. origin unknown
Heishi beads (alternate spelling heishe beads; pronounced hee-shee) are a type of disc-shaped or short tubular beads. Heishi is possibly the oldest form of jewelry in North America. Heishi from Africa. A different kind of heishi-type beads are crafted using a similar technique in some African nations. The materials differ somewhat; they may include vegetable material such as husks or shells and thick pieces of ostrich eggshell.
The shells most commonly chosen for heishi include penn shell, olive shells, spiny oysters, mother-of-pearl (MOP), and melon shell. Coral is also used as well as stones such as lapis, turquoise, jet, pipestone, and serpentine. Heishi beads are made by slicing the shell or stone into uniform strips. Then the pieces are nipped into small squares. Each square then has a hole drilled in it. The squares are strung, each material being strung in a separate group. The strings of squares are smoothed and rounded by grinding and rolling the beads. 
On the other hand, inferior heishi-style beads will often have holes that are too large, making the strand look and feel uneven and irregular. To make matters worse, this beadwork is frequently made of a variety of plastic materials of all colors, including block or reconstituted jet, coral or turquoise. When one looks at a string of heishi, the first reaction is frequently how on earth can a person do that? or to be so perfect, it must be done by machines.. The truth is, if it seems exquisitely perfect, it was most likely made by the hands of a highly-skilled, extremely patient craftsperson.
Heishi beads originally come from the Navajos, a Native American tribe from the Southwest. These days, heishi beads are used as a stylishly exotic yet simple accessory to any necklace, most often seen worn as necklaces by surfers. HB0001 - Arabic Conus Heishi Beads (24 strand).
Heishi Materials. Beads marketed as heishi can be made from virtually any material. The Pueblo Indians, however, historically worked in shells like melon shells, spiny oysters, light and dark olive shells and mother-of-pearl. Heishi from Africa. A different kind of heishi-type beads are crafted using a similar technique in some African nations. The materials differ somewhat; they may include vegetable material such as husks or shells and thick pieces of ostrich eggshell.