Strep throat is a contagious illness that is spread from person-to-person. It is usually transmitted by close contact with the saliva or nasal secretions from an infected individual, typically in the form of airborne respiratory droplets. 
Answer: Strep throat is contagious. You can pass strep throat by coughing, sneezing. And the most likely cause of passing strep throat, or any infection, is hand-to-hand. Frequent hand washing helps cut down the spread of infection, so that is an important piece to do when viruses and colds and strep throat is going around your office.
A. In the past, when people had signs of strep -- the red, raw throat, spikes in fever, and white spots on the tongue and tonsils -- doctors would culture a specimen from the patient's throat and wait 24 hours to 48 hours for the results. WebMD Medical Reference. If your throat is sore, you're running a high fever, and you have no energy -- you may have strep throat. Here's what you should know. 1  Understand the Basics of Strep Throat. 2  The Symptoms of Strep Throat. 3  Treatment Options for
Some people with strep also have a headache or sore stomach, and occasionally you'll see a red rash on your skin, vomiting, lack of appetite, and body aches. The symptoms of strep generally start to appear within two to five days of exposure to the bacteria. As it's caused by bacteria, strep throat is contagious. On top of that, you just don't have to kissing or sharing dishes with someone infected. Once your doctor has confirmed that you have strep throat, an antibiotic like penicillin or amoxicillin will be prescribed. The antibiotics reduce the amount of time that you are contagious and help prevent the spread of the infection to other parts of your body.
Strep throat is a bacterial infection in the throat and the tonsils. The throat gets irritated and inflamed, causing a sudden, severe sore throat. Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. There are many different types of strep bacteria. Some cause more serious illness than others. A sore throat caused by a virus can be just as painful as strep throat. But if you have cold symptoms such as coughing, sneezing, or a runny or stuffy nose, you probably do not have strep throat. The most common symptoms of strep throat are: 1  A sudden, severe sore throat. 2  Pain when you swallow. 3  Fever over 101°F (38.3°C) .
Patient Comments Read 7 Comments Share Your Story. Strep throat is a contagious disease caused by infection with streptococcal bacteria, which causes inflammation and swelling of the mucous membranes lining the back of the throat and the tonsils. 
Strep throat is a throat infection usually caused by group A streptococcal bacteria. Strep throat is often accompanied by fever. Strep throat is one of many causes of inflammation of the pharynx (pharyngitis). Strep throat is a common cause of sore throat. Streptococcus spp. are the most common bacterial species to cause strep throat (15%-30% of pharyngitis in children and about 5 to 10% in adults). Rarely, a person with strep throat can develop a rash. If a person has a runny nose, constant sneezing and coughing, it actually is less likely that they have strep throat. Strep throat is diagnosed by the medical history, physical examination of the throat, and with a rapid strep test on a swab of the throat.
Strep throat is contagious for about 2-3 weeks in individuals that do not take antibiotics. However, individuals that take antibiotics for strep throat usually are no longer contagious about 24 hours after initiating antibiotic therapy. Rarely, a person with strep throat can develop a rash. If a person has a runny nose, constant sneezing and coughing, it actually is less likely that they have strep throat. Strep throat is diagnosed by the medical history, physical examination of the throat, and with a rapid strep test on a swab of the throat.
1 Most sore throats are caused by viruses, not strep bacteria. 2  Symptoms of strep throat in middle-age children and adolescents include: 3  Sore throat (90%). 4  Headache (85%). 5  Fever (85%). 6  Upset stomach (65%). Strep throat facts. 1 
Yes, strep throat is contagious. The most common way to catch strep throat is by contact with an infected person. Close contact with airborne droplets of an infected individual is the most common way of catching Streptococcus infection.