Story by Julian Putley. Beef Island today is best known as the location of the Terrence B. Lettsome Airport, but it is also known for its fabulous beaches, luxury villas, shops, art galleries and eateries. In a multi-part series, author Julian Putley looks back at Beef Island's earliest days. In the 18th Century Beef Island was a fertile and a productive piece of flat land. It also possesses some beautiful beaches, bays and anchorages. In 1717 Captain Chandler of HMS Winchelsea visited Beef Island and recorded five families living there producing Indian corn, yams, potatoes and cotton.
Terrance B. Lettsome International Airport (IATA: EIS, ICAO: TUPJ), previously known as Beef Island Airport, is the main airport serving the British Virgin Islands, a British overseas territory in the Caribbean. The airport serves as the gateway to just about all of the islands within the BVI. Many travellers fly into Beef Island, with the intention of taking a ferry to the other smaller British Virgin Islands.
Airline Flights To/From BVI Tortola, the main island of the British Virgin Islands, is the location of the BVI's only major airport, the Beef Island Airport (EIS) (actually on Tortola's adjoining Beef Island). The largest airplanes served are regional jets and turboprops for intra-Caribbean flights. See arrivals live here. Tortola's Beef Island Airport Behind Trellis Bay The Major Caribbean connection to the BVI for large intercontinental jets is at San Juan, Puerto Rico (SJU) (see San Juan airport map and info here). This and other Caribbean destinations are served with American Eagle ATRs, a turboprop plane shown here at the Beef Island airport. American Eagle, AA's Caribbean subsidiary, now bought and operated by Executive Airlines, is a major Caribbean carrier serving Tortola 's Beef Island Airport from San Juan Airport.
Beef Island is the site of the Terrance B. Lettsome International Airport (IATA code EIS), the main commercial airport that serves Tortola and the rest of the British Virgin Islands. Trellis Bay is a short walk east of the airport. Trellis Bay is a small town (market, restaurant, coffee shop, local crafts) and beach. In 2007, a major development on Beef Island was made subject to delays after challenges from an environmentalist group calling itself the British Virgin Islands Heritage Conservation Group.
What is to come next, is anyone's guess as the government is actively seeking investors to develop Beef Island. Beef Island Bridge. On your way to or from Tortola and the Terrance B. Lettsome International Airport on Beef Island, you will have to cross the Queen Elizabeth II bridge. The bridge (which was completed in 2003), replaced one opened by Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II, during her visit to Tortola in 1967. Before the new airport was officially opened in 2004, and in order to gain passage to Beef Island, one had to pay a toll of 50c to $2.00, depending upon the number of persons in your vehicle.
Beef Island has been so named as far back as the early 1700s. It is an unusual name, as unusual as the diverse catalogue of people, who worked, lived, played, schemed or just simply occupied this small gem of the British Virgin Islands. In the 18th Century Beef Island was a fertile and a productive piece of flat land. It also possesses some beautiful beaches, bays and anchorages. In 1717 Captain Chandler of HMS Winchelsea visited Beef Island and recorded five families living there producing Indian corn, yams, potatoes and cotton.
Map of Beef Island in the BVI. Located at the eastern tip of Tortola and joined by the Queen Elizabeth bridge, Beef Island is home to the Terrence B. Lettsome International Airport (EIS), the main airport for the British Virgin Islands. There are currently no direct international flights to the BVI. Travelers fly into one of the major Caribbean hubs such as Puerto Rico, Antigua, St. Martin or St. Thomas to board connecting flights to this airport.
Beef Island Flights. When looking for plane tickets to Beef Island, the ease and convenience of using Expedia.com simply can't be beat. With tons of departure points and flights options from the top airline carriers, Expedia.com gives you the widest array of cheap flights to Beef Island. Expedia.com lets you search across the largest number of airlines and Beef Island flights, which means that you'll be able to find a great flight deal at the perfect travel date and time.
Beef Island is an island in the British Virgin Islands. It is located to the east of Tortola, and the two islands are connected by the Queen Elizabeth Bridge. In 2007, a major development on Beef Island was made subject to delays after challenges from an environmentalist group calling itself the British Virgin Islands Heritage Conservation Group.