Part condiment and part garnish, gremolata is most commonly used for a final flourish of flavor, classically with the famous Italian recipe Osso Buco, where it adds a fresh, zippy note to the rich, meaty dish. Parsley, garlic, and lemon make up the classic gremolata, but you can certainly switch things up to suit your dish. The garlic can be replaced with shallots, for instance, or the lemon with another citrus such as lime.
Gremolata Recipe. Gremolata is a condiment made from finely minced parsley, garlic and lemon zest. It's great because it adds brightness and aromatics to dishes like braised meats that might otherwise be a bit heavy or one-note. It's traditionally served with veal, especially the classic braised veal dish osso buco. 
Pin it Part condiment and part garnish, gremolata is most commonly used for a final flourish of flavor, classically with the famous Italian recipe Osso Buco, where it adds a fresh, zippy note to the rich, meaty dish. But it should not be limited to just rich preparations! Parsley, garlic, and lemon make up the classic gremolata, but you can certainly switch things up to suit your dish. The garlic can be replaced with shallots, for instance, or the lemon with another citrus such as lime.
Definition of GREMOLATA. : a seasoning mixture consisting usually of grated lemon zest, minced garlic, and minced parsley that is used especially with osso buco. grem·o·la·ta or grem·o·la·da \-də, -dae\. Dä. advertisement Definition of GREMOLATA. : a seasoning mixture consisting usually of grated lemon zest, minced garlic, and minced parsley that is used especially with osso buco. grem·o·la·ta or grem·o·la·da \-də, -dae\. dä
Don’t chuck it. Though gremolata, made from parsley, lemon zest, and toasted pine nuts is traditionally served atop Italian braised veal shanks to add zest and a final dash of flavor, the condiment can also be used to brighten up a number of dishes. Here are five other great ways to use gremolata.
This savory pasta is just one idea for gremolata, a pungent mixture of garlic, lemon zest and parsley. It’s terrific with the sauteed sautéed mushrooms and makes a great condiment for a variety of roasted. Vegetables featured: In Parsley. hummus 1 To make the gremolata, place the minced garlic, parsley and lemon zest in a mound and chop them together with a chef’s knife. 2  Set aside.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Gremolata, which is also spelled “gremolada,” is a condiment that is traditionally served with Ossobucco alla Milanese, an Italian dish of braised veal shank. It is a chopped herb condiment made of garlic, parsley, and lemon peel. 
Gremolata. Gremolata or gremolada is a chopped herb condiment typically made of lemon zest, garlic, and parsley. It is a traditional accompaniment to the Milanese braised veal shank dish ossobuco alla milanese. 
Gremolata. This is one of my favorite condiments. Parsley, garlic, and lemon zest—the most basic of ingredients, yet together, they are cymbals in the food orchestra. Noisy alone, but perfect to accentuate a lamb stew or veal osso buco.
Gremolata or gremolada (. [ɡremoˈlaːta] or [ɡremoˈlaːda]) is a chopped herb condiment classically made of lemon zest, garlic and parsley. It is a traditional accompaniment to the Milanese braised veal shank dish ossobuco alla milanese.