Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter used at the neuromuscular junction —in other words, it is the chemical that motor neurons of the nervous system release in order to activate muscles. This property means that drugs that affect cholinergic systems can have very dangerous effects ranging from paralysis to convulsions. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that is released in the synaptic cleft and goes over the sarcolemma down the tubule and promotes the release of calcium from the sarcoreticulum which then binds to proteins on actin which exposes binding spots for myosin to attach to and powerstroke causing muscle contraction. The result of this communication is electrical excitation of the muscle cell, what we call an action potential. The action potential of the muscle cell activates that muscle and causes the muscle cell to contract or shorten. This is how our muscles are activated to do work.
Inside the brain acetylcholine functions as a neuromodulator —a chemical that alters the way other brain structures process information rather than a chemical used to transmit information from point to point. The brain contains a number of cholinergic areas, each with distinct functions. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
User: What does this acetylcholine do for us?Weegy: Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter in the nervous system (both peripheral and central systems). It is used as a nueromodulator in the PNS and CNS to activate muscles. 
In summary, excite the muscle cell. In a little more detailed summary, acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter that reversibly binds to and stimulates the muscarinic acetylcholi … ne receptors on the post-synaptic region of the sarcolemma of the skeletal muscle, called the motor end plate. The result of this communication is electrical excitation of the muscle cell, what we call an action potential. The action potential of the muscle cell activates that muscle and causes the muscle cell to contract or shorten. This is how our muscles are activated to do work.
Acetylcholine is also used as a neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system, both as an internal transmitter for the sympathetic nervous system and as the final product released by the parasympathetic nervous system. Acetylcholine has functions both in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and in the central nervous system (CNS) as a neuromodulator. In the peripheral nervous system, acetylcholine activates muscles, and is a major neurotransmitter in the autonomic nervous system.
Acetylcholine serves both excitatory and inhibitory functions, which means it can both speed up and slow down nerve signals. In the central nervous system, its role is primarily excitatory. It plays a role in arousal, memory, learning, and neuroplasticity. Acetylcholine works together with the neurotransmitter dopamine to enable smooth movements. When there is an imbalance between acetylcholine and dopamine, movements can be shaky and uneven, a hallmark of Parkinson’s disease. References: 1  Alzheimer’s disease medication fact sheet.
Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter—a chemical messenger that helps carry signals across a nerve synapse. It was the first neurotransmitter to be discovered, and has been heavily studied. It is also the most abundant neurotransmitter and is present in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. Acetylcholine works together with the neurotransmitter dopamine to enable smooth movements. When there is an imbalance between acetylcholine and dopamine, movements can be shaky and uneven, a hallmark of Parkinson’s disease. References: 1  Alzheimer’s disease medication fact sheet.
Best Answer: Acetylcholine is a neurotransmitter in the nervous system (both peripheral and central systems). See link for additional info. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acetylcholi... It's a neurotransmitter in humans in both the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system see