Leaving a follow-up comment on Feedback you left. Visit the Feedback Forum. Click Follow Up to Feedback Left on the right side of the page. Locate the comment you want to follow up on, and click Follow up. Enter your follow-up comment in the box, and click Leave Follow-up Comment. Contact Customer Service. If you're looking for more help or have a question to ask, please contact us. Replying to Feedback someone left for you. Leaving a follow-up comment on Feedback you left. Occasionally, you may want to respond to Feedback someone has left for you, or leave a follow-up comment to Feedback you left for someone else. The Feedback Forum gives you the tools you need.
Here's how to take the sting out of feedback and make it work for you. By. Experience tells us that negative feedback associated with negative emotions, often in the form of an angry customer or a peeved colleague. So that ability to engage others, to get them motivated and excited, requires a real sensitivity to how others respond to you. And a person that is great at collecting feedback, does much better.. Of course, above all, it’s important that we do something with this feedback.
Negative feedback isn’t the issue. You are. How you respond to correction, criticism, and negative feedback tells me who you are. It’s even more telling when it comes from someone of lower status. Negative responses: “ 1 It’s your fault too.”. 2  Making it personal. 3  Standing aloof. 4  Minimizing. 5  Arguing. 6  Feeling attacked. 7  Finger pointing
But, regardless of what it is, you can respond to feedback in three easy steps. Step 1: Appreciate. First and foremost, appreciate it. Appreciate that they are offering their thoughts and that they took the time to do so. 
If a customer gives negative feedback, it is important to respond with clear and direct language, addressing their concerns thoughtfully, and to offer some form of solution or resolution to the problem. In the example below, we show how responding to the customer's concerns is not only a chance to fix the particular problem, it is also a great avenue for engaged customer relations. To maintain a professional image in the face of negative feedback, your English writing must be clear and communicative.
In business communication, or any number of public relations activities, it is vital to learn how to respond positively to negative feedback. After all, any type of business feedback can help you improve the success of your business, and become a platform for better customer relations. In the example below, we show how responding to the customer's concerns is not only a chance to fix the particular problem, it is also a great avenue for engaged customer relations. To maintain a professional image in the face of negative feedback, your English writing must be clear and communicative.
Let's have a look at an example of a response to negative feedback, and how we can improve it using these tips, and how WhiteSmoke Writing Software can change a hastily written text into an example of English writing that is correct and communicative. Original Email Response. Mr. Jones : In the example below, we show how responding to the customer's concerns is not only a chance to fix the particular problem, it is also a great avenue for engaged customer relations. To maintain a professional image in the face of negative feedback, your English writing must be clear and communicative.
Replying to Feedback someone left for you. Visit the Feedback Forum. Click Reply to Feedback Received on the right side of the page. Locate the comment you want to respond to, and click Reply link. Replying to Feedback someone left for you. Leaving a follow-up comment on Feedback you left. Occasionally, you may want to respond to Feedback someone has left for you, or leave a follow-up comment to Feedback you left for someone else. The Feedback Forum gives you the tools you need.