Everyone is regularly exposed to low levels of ammonia in air, soil, water, and food. You can be exposed to higher levels of ammonia by breathing it or having skin contact with it. At home, you can be exposed if you use products that contain ammonia, including window cleaners, floor waxes, and smelling salts. If you work on or live near a farm, you can breathe ammonia in the air if the farm uses ammonia fertilizers.
Nitrogen in the form of N 1 is an essential element for life. • Ammonia has been used for many years as a processing aid in thousands of food and beverage products. • Ammonia is present in foods. Ammonia in peanut butter (489 ppm), American cheese (813 ppm), and domestic blue cheese (1,376 ppm). Of all the foods that contain ammonium hydroxide, these meats have levels lower than other foods including the before mentioned American cheese, domestic blue cheese, peanut butter and gourmet brie and camembert cheeses.
Ammonium hydroxide is also used as an antimicrobial agent in meat products. Ammonia in other forms (e.g ., ammonium sulfate, ammonium alginate) is used in condiments, relishes, soy protein concentrates/isolates, snack foods, jams and jellies, and non-alcoholic beverages. The Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) of the U.N.’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO) also recognizes ammonium hydroxide as safe for use in a wide variety of foods.
up vote 1 down vote accepted. Ammonia (generally ammonium salts) is found in most naturally occurring foods, as is a product of growth and decay. Ammonia gas is used in some food processing line machines to ensure cleanliness of the machines and the food passing through it. The naturally occurring level of Ammonia in many foods is in the 10 or 100's of ppm, so the trace amounts left behind from the processing line would not be noticeable in most cases. 712 4 14. Do you mean the pure compound ammonia, ammonia, NH3, nomrally a gas at room temperature, or any of the wide variety of chemicals containing this as a portion of their makeup such as NH4Cl, ammonium chloride, E510.
Ammonia/ammonium hydroxide is one of a number of processing aids used with meat and poultry in order to ensure the safety of these foods before they are delivered to consumers. The pH enhancement process is an important component of our overall food safety effort. This is really nothing new. In fact, the presence or use of ammonia in foods has been studied for years. For example, the table below contains information developed in 1973 as part of a study printed in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.
Here's a surprise for those protesting “pink slime”—or beef trimmings that are ground and then treated with ammonia to kill harmful bacteria like salmonella and E. coli—ammonia is used in many other food products. 
Ammonia (NH 3) is a compound consisting of nitrogen and hydrogen. Both ammonia and ammonium hydroxide are very common compounds, found naturally in the environment (in air, water, and soil) and in all plants and animals, including humans. Ammonia is a source of nitrogen, an essential element for plants and animals. The Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) of the U.N.’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO) also recognizes ammonium hydroxide as safe for use in a wide variety of foods.
A: The list of foods in which ammonium hydroxide is used as a direct food additive is extensive and includes baked goods, cheeses, chocolates, other confectionery (e.g ., caramel), and puddings. The Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives (JECFA) of the U.N.’s Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and World Health Organization (WHO) also recognizes ammonium hydroxide as safe for use in a wide variety of foods.
Ammonium hydroxide is naturally found in beef, other proteins, and virtually all foods. It is widely used in the processing of numerous foods, such as baked goods, cheeses, gelatins, chocolate, caramels, and puddings. This is really nothing new. In fact, the presence or use of ammonia in foods has been studied for years. For example, the table below contains information developed in 1973 as part of a study printed in The American Journal of Clinical Nutrition.
The chemical formula for ammonia is NH3. When ammonia is manufactured, it is primarily used to make fertilizer. It is used to manufacture synthetic fibers, textiles, pulp and paper, pesticides, explosives, smelling salts, cleaning products, rocket fuel, fuel cells, and some foods and beverages. Ammonia is also used to make other chemicals, including nitric acid and cyanide. At home, you can be exposed if you use products that contain ammonia, including window cleaners, floor waxes, and smelling salts. If you work on or live near a farm, you can breathe ammonia in the air if the farm uses ammonia fertilizers.