Shillong Time. Weather Widget for your site. Weather in Shillong-India. 27°C. Humidity is 83%. Wind is CALM 0 m/s. Visibility is 5 km. Pressure is --. 0 people have this widget. .... 
Shillong has a cool climate all through the year and can be visited any time of the year. But the best season is from September to May. The weather is pleasant during October and is best suited for sighting attractions and natural beauty of the place. Posted by clare.ralte 1 year, 2 months ago. ive already booked my tickets from delhi to guwahati and want to visit shillong from 1st june to 15 th june with my family what do u advice to me. Posted by nitish 1 year, 4 months ago. I want to visit Shillong in November'13.
The Shillong, India climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine.
Local time in Shillong: IST. View 3 Hour Detailed Shillong Weather Forecast for Today. Shillong 4 – 7 Day Weather Forecast Summary: Light rain (total 8mm), mostly falling on Sun morning. Very mild (max 20°C on Mon morning, min 16°C on Mon night). Wind will be generally light. See the links below the weather forecasts for other cities, towns and villages near Shillong. Shillong 1 – 3 Day Weather Forecast Summary: Heavy rain (total 50mm), heaviest during Wed night. Very mild (max 19°C on Sat morning, min 17°C on Fri night).
It is the headquarters of the East Khasi Hills district and is situated at an average altitude of 4,908 feet (1,496 m) above sea level, with the highest point being Shillong Peak at 6,449 feet (1,966 m). Shillong is the 330th most populous city in India with population of 143,007 according to the 2011 census. 1 Spread Eagle Falls: 3 km from Polo Grounds. 2  Sweet Falls: Sweet Falls (also called “Weitden,” in the native dialect) is the most beautiful of all the waterfalls in Shillong. 3  It lies about 5 km from the Happy Valley and is about 96 m in height.
Shillong is at 25°34′N 91°53′E﻿ / ﻿25.57°N 91.88°E﻿ / 25.57; 91.88. It is on the Shillong Plateau, the only major uplifted structure in the northern Indian shield. The city lies in the centre of the plateau and is surrounded by hills, three of which are revered in Khasi tradition: Lum Sohpetbneng, Lum Diengiei and Lum Shillong. 1 Spread Eagle Falls: 3 km from Polo Grounds. 2  Sweet Falls: Sweet Falls (also called “Weitden,” in the native dialect) is the most beautiful of all the waterfalls in Shillong. 3  It lies about 5 km from the Happy Valley and is about 96 m in height.
Shillong (English pronunciation: /ʃɪˈlɔːŋ/ ; Khasi: Shillong) is the capital and hill station of Meghalaya, also known as The Abode of Clouds, one of the smallest states in India. 1 Spread Eagle Falls: 3 km from Polo Grounds. 2  Sweet Falls: Sweet Falls (also called “Weitden,” in the native dialect) is the most beautiful of all the waterfalls in Shillong. 3  It lies about 5 km from the Happy Valley and is about 96 m in height.
Best Season / Best time to visit Shillong. 1  Winters (November to February) are freezing and minimum temperature reaches 2°C. 2  Fog formations are common during winter. 3  The period is ideal for honeymooning. 4  Summers (March to June) experience a maximum temperature of 24°C and a minimum temperature of 15°C. Posted by clare.ralte 1 year, 2 months ago. ive already booked my tickets from delhi to guwahati and want to visit shillong from 1st june to 15 th june with my family what do u advice to me. Posted by nitish 1 year, 4 months ago. I want to visit Shillong in November'13.
Shillong 10 day weather forecast, updated four times a day and shows the weather summary plus detailed sun, rain, snow, wind and temperature. The weather forecast extends out to 10 days showing information for morning, afternoon and overnight. See the links below the weather forecasts for other cities, towns and villages near Shillong. Shillong 1 – 3 Day Weather Forecast Summary: Heavy rain (total 50mm), heaviest during Wed night. Very mild (max 19°C on Sat morning, min 17°C on Fri night).
The highest temperature in Shillong for the month is usually higher than the average maximum temperature. Similarly, the lowest temperature in Shillong for the month is usually lower than the average minimum temperature. Posted by clare.ralte 1 year, 2 months ago. ive already booked my tickets from delhi to guwahati and want to visit shillong from 1st june to 15 th june with my family what do u advice to me. Posted by nitish 1 year, 4 months ago. I want to visit Shillong in November'13.