Pain following total hip replacement has come a long way over the last 10-15 years with increased use of regional nerve blocks, spinal blocks, and various other modalities used for pain control. Total hip replacement is generally considered to be less painful than total knee replacement. Most current data suggests that both hip and knee replacements have an annual failure rate between 0.5-1.0%. This means that if you have your total joint replaced today, you have a 90-95% chance that your joint will last 10 years, and a 80-85% that it will last 20 years.
The average short-term recovery time for a total hip replacement is 4 to 6 weeks. Long-term recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. About Bonesmart.org.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. Adapted by MNT from original media release. Rate this article (click stars to rate). Contributing factors to recovery from hip replacement. There are a number of contributing factors that influence recovery time. Josephine Fox, a moderator at the BoneSmart.org hip replacement forums and nurse of over fifty years, says that a positive attitude is everything.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. About Bonesmart.org.
Long-term Recovery. Long-term hip replacement recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery. On days 1 or 2, most total hip replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night’s sleep without pills.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may recover in 6 to 8 months; while others may require a longer recovery time. On days 1 or 2, most total hip replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night’s sleep without pills.
Progress. The usual hospital stay for hip replacement is 3 to 5 days, and full recovery typically takes 3 to 6 months. To protect your hip, you will often be asked not to sit past a 90-degree angle after surgery. If this is the case, you will be provided the necessary tools to assist during this process. 
More Hip Articles & FAQs. Perhaps the most common questions patients have about hip replacement are regarding the recovery process and recovery time. There is no definite answer, as each individual’s situation differs significantly from anyone else’s, but typically patients return to normal activity within 3-6 months. On days 1 or 2, most total hip replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night’s sleep without pills.
Most people who undergo posterior-approach hip replacement need a walker or crutches for the first 4–6 weeks after surgery and a cane for another 4–6 weeks after that. Typically, it takes about 10 weeks to be able to walk without assistance. Minimally invasive approach. Most people who have anterior-approach hip replacement need a walker or crutches for the first two to three weeks after surgery and a cane for another two or three weeks, and they may be able to walk without assistance soon after that. The anterior approach has some disadvantages.