Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ahh, the morning after -- leaving young people dizzy since 1962. When you drink, your liver and kidneys go into overdrive. They quickly try to get rid of all the alcohol they can as fast as they can. Ibuprofen at high dose can cause drowsiness, dizziness, and alcohol may intensify these effects and increase the risk of accidental injury. The use of alcohol increases the ri … sk of stomach irritation and bleeding. People taking ibuprofen regularly or at risk of stomach irritation should avoid alcohol.
Save. Dehydration is often associated with feeling light-headed. Long periods in the heat and sun, especially after exercising, can leave a person feeling dizzy and in need of water. Sometimes feeling light-headed can be caused not by a lack of water, but by drinking water. 
RE: Why do I feel lightheaded & dizzy after drinking tea or coffee? When I get up from sitting I feel dizzy, lightheaded, have blurred vision, and even lose a little balance, and sometimes feel weak. It usually last just a few seconds. But I've noticed it even more so specifically after drinking tea/coffee. 
There are two main causes of dizziness after drinking: the immediate effects of alcohol on your brain, and the aftereffects the next day, which can cause dizziness from dehydration and low blood sugar. Low Blood Sugar. Alcohol is a type of carbohydrate, and if you take in a lot of carbohydrate all at once, your body produces a lot of insulin to move it out of your bloodstream and into your cells.
1 Drinking water or fresh juices relieves you of any dizziness after eating. 2  Drink at least 8 glasses of water daily to avoid feeling lightheaded after meals. 3  Always rest after meals to evade being dizzy after eating. 4  If you suffer from gastritis, maintain a diet full of fresh fruits and vegetables. 1 Drink at least 8 glasses of water daily to avoid feeling lightheaded after meals. 2  Always rest after meals to evade being dizzy after eating. 3
If you drink too much water too quick, it can throw your electolytes off, and cause you to feel drunk aka dizzy,etc. my suggestion is to cut back on water consumption for about a week. Cut back to 1 glass (8 oz) per meal (if you do snacks, then do 8 oz per snack if you want) but drink it slow, space it out. Another thing to look at is the water you are drinking. I live in a rural area and am on a community well that keeps it's water safe with a bleach...if I drink enough of that water I get sores in my mouth. Check what is added to your water or use bottled water.
Dizziness after eating is a common sign especially existing among the elderly and women, which may be triggered by various causes. Feeling dizziness after eating meals is common in the elderly, affecting about one-third of older men and women. It is not so common in younger people. This condition, also known as postprandial hypotension, can cause a dizzy feeling, or lightheadedness, which may lead to fainting or falling. 
After a night of partying and drinking, ... How to Get Rid of Dizziness After Drinking. A night of drinking alcohol can... 1  How to Get Rid of the Toxins in My Body After a Massage. Low Blood Sugar. Alcohol is a type of carbohydrate, and if you take in a lot of carbohydrate all at once, your body produces a lot of insulin to move it out of your bloodstream and into your cells.
Drinking to the point that you're dizzy, however, is a sign that you've had too much to drink; long-term overindulging is linked to many health risks, from liver disease to accidental death to fetal alcohol syndrome. Low Blood Sugar. Alcohol is a type of carbohydrate, and if you take in a lot of carbohydrate all at once, your body produces a lot of insulin to move it out of your bloodstream and into your cells.