Of course, even with these standards, there are even more out there burger varieties. The Canadian kubie uses kubasa instead of ground beef, for example, and there are many other non-beef burgers available in many markets.
Curry Burger: A curry burger is a variant of the American hamburger that is seasoned with curry. Made with ground beef, chicken, or lamb, it is typically seasoned with curry powder, as well as yogurt, onions, green peppers, and other spices, and then served on a traditional hamburger bun.
We toss around references to different burger styles on this site all the time, but it occurred to me that we've never really set them out all in one place for easy reference. I'm doing that now. Here's a list of all the burger styles we could think of. If there's something here we're missing, chime in with a comment.
The favorite choice for the term Hamburgers is 1 Hamburger (Single Patty with Condiments and Vegetables) which has about 13 grams of fat. The total fat, saturated fat and other fats for a variety of types and serving sizes of Hamburgers is shown below.
As you look through this list of five types of cheese for burgers, keep in mind that cheeseburgers don't have to be made with ground beef. Other types of meat, like buffalo or turkey, are great with cheese. Veggie burgers are especially good with a thick layer of melted cheese on top.
Banquet Burger: A hamburger with one patty, bacon, and cheese is a bacon cheeseburger or a Banquet Burger; hamburgers with bacon but no cheese are often called bacon-burgers. Patty Melt: A patty melt is a sandwich consisting of a hamburger patty, sauteed sautéed onions and cheese between two slices of rye. bread
15 Interesting Facts About Burgers. Many types of food are well known throughout the world, but none are as strongly recognized as the hamburger. This simple combination of bread and beef has been copied, revised, enhanced, simplified, and served in over 150 countries.
Barbecue Burger: A BBQ hamburger is made from ground beef, mixed with onions and barbecue sauce-then grilled on the grill. Once the meat has been turned once, barbecue sauce is spread on top and grilled until the sauce caramelizes.
The traditional Australasian hamburgers: The hamburger meat is always ground beef. They almost always include tomato, lettuce, grilled onion, beetroot (canned slices), and meat as minimum, and can optionally include cheese, pineapple, a fried egg (usually with a hard yolk) and bacon.