Common description of urine (normal). pale yellow, yellow, dark yellow, and amber.   . the yellow pigment that gives color to urine.   . a pink (or red) pigment in urine that is thought to derive from melanin metabolism. Uroerythrin deposits on urate crystals to produce a precipitate described as brick dust.
The Color, Smell and Turbidity of Urine The color of normal urine ranges from colorless through straw, yellow, amber and brown and depends on the concentration of various pigments (urochrome, uroerythrin, urobilin). The color of urine can be influenced by: - pH: acidic urine usually darker.
My doctor suggested I keep a log of urine output and description of the urine. Could you suggest other words to describe how healthy, infected, colonized (bladder) urine can look: Color: Yellow, Straw, Lt. Yellow, Dk.
Cause: globin (blood) melanin (urine darkens on standing and reacts with nitroprusside and ferric chloride).   . pale yellow, yellow, dark yellow, and amber.   . the yellow pigment that gives color to urine.   . a pink (or red) pigment in urine that is thought to derive from melanin metabolism.
Anuria refers to a total lack of urine production. The normal color of urine ranges from light yellow to dark amber, depending on the concentration of solutes in the urine. Urechrome is the name of the pigment that gives urine its characteristic yellow color. Many medications cause the urine to change color.
Normal urine color ranges from pale yellow to deep amber — the result of a pigment called urochrome and how diluted or concentrated the urine is. Pigments and other compounds in certain foods and medications may change your urine color. Beets, berries and fava beans are among the foods most likely to affect urine color. Many over-the-counter and prescription medications give urine vivid tones, such as raspberry red, lemon yellow or greenish blue. An unusual urine color can be a sign of disease. For instance, deep red to brown urine is an identifying characteristic of porphyria, a rare, inherited disorder of red blood cells. 1  Symptoms.