Use adequate ventilation to keep airborne concentrations low. Exposure Limits: Chemical Name: ACGIH NIOSH OSHA Sodium tetraborate,decahydratenone listed none listed none listed OSHA Vacated PELs: Sodium tetraborate, decahydrate: No OSHA Vacated PELs are listed for this chemical. Section 16 - Other Information MSDS Creation Date: November 14, 2007Revision Date: October 12, 2009 Information in this MSDS is from available published sources and is believed to be accurate. No warranty, express or implied,is made and LabChem Inc. assumes no liability resulting from the use of this MSDS.
Material Safety Data Sheet Sodium tetraborate decahydrate sc-212947 Hazard Alert Code Key: EXTREME HIGH MODERATE LOW Section 1 - CHEMICAL PRODUCT AND COMPANY IDENTIFICATION PRODUCT NAME Sodium tetraborate decahydrate STATEMENT OF HAZARDOUS NATURE CONSIDERED A HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE ACCORDING TO OSHA 29 CFR 1910.1200. Open cuts, abraded or irritated skin should not be exposed to this material.! Entry into the blood-stream, through, for example, cuts, abrasions or lesions, may produce systemic injury with harmful effects.Examine the skin prior to the use of the material and ensure that any external damage is suitably protected.
For sodium perborate, see Sodium perborate. Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is an important boron compound, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve easily in water. Borax has a wide variety of uses. Borax, sodium tetraborate decahydrate, according to one study, is not acutely toxic. Its LD50 (median lethal dose) score is tested at 2.66 g/kg in rats, meaning that a significant dose of the chemical is needed to cause severe symptoms or death. The lethal dose is not necessarily the same for human
Identifying information, including synonyms, ID numbers, use type, chemical classification, a link to a list of all products containing this chemical and a list of the top crops this pesticide is used on in California. Signs and symptoms of poisoning, first aid, and links to treatment information for this chemical. - In severe poisonings, a beefy red skin rash affecting palms, soles, buttocks and scrotum has been described. With severe poisoning, erythematous and exfoliative rash, unconsciousness, respiratory depression, and renal failure.
- Irritation of skin and respiratory tract. - The gastrointestinal tract, skin vascular system and brain are the principal organs and tissues affected. - Nausea, persistent vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. - Lethargy and headache may occur but are less frequent. - In severe poisonings, a beefy red skin rash affecting palms, soles, buttocks and scrotum has been described. With severe poisoning, erythematous and exfoliative rash, unconsciousness, respiratory depression, and renal failure.
The risks associated with the use of borate products are related to the potential exposure the application can have. The insect control products containing boric oxide are to be used in bait stations or are a gel (paste) that is put out in small quantities. All dietary and drinking water risk assessment scenarios were waived for boric acid and sodium borate salts (Reference 1). Long-term exposures to sodium tetraborate decahydrate from insect bait stations is considered low in hazard.
The risks associated with the use of borate products are related to the potential exposure the application can have. As of 2008, there are two types of products that contain the active ingredient sodium tetraborate pentahydrate (not including pool and spa products). One type is an enclosed bait product for the control of ants and the other is a liquid product used for wood preservation and wood-damaging insect control. 1. The enclosed baits would result in a very limited potential for exposure, are considered low in hazard, and pass Thurston County's review criteria.2.
Borax is used frequently in homemade laundry soap, dishwashing powders, and personal care products. The question often arises: Is borax safe to use? Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is a naturally occurring mineral composed of sodium, boron, oxygen, and water. (The scientific name for borax is sodium tetraborate decahydrate.) It is a white powder consisting of soft, colorless crystals that dissolve quickly in water.