One of the colors of the rainbow, indigo — a dark purplish blue — gets it name from the indigo plant used to create the indigo dye. Answer: Indigo appears between blue and violet in a rainbow. Purple grapes and blueberries are indigo. The deep blue of dark denim blue jeans is indigo. Indigo is a deep, purply blue with some indigos having more blue or more violet. Some of the many shades of indigo: 1  Bright Indigo (Crayola) | Hex #4F69C6 | RGB 79,105,198. 1 Indigo dye (approximation) | Hex #00416A (more blue) | RGB 0,65,106. 2  Indigo is a cool color. 3  Carrying the blue symbolism associated with the darker shades of blue, indigo conveys trust, truthfulness, and stability. 4  It also may have some of the authority and royalty of purple as indigo was considered a royal blue
While you may not exhibit all the character traits of the personality color indigo as listed here, if indigo is your favorite color you will find yourself somewhere in the description. You may also find you exhibit some of the negative traits, particularly when you are stressed. 1 Being a personality color indigo indicates you are hungry for the meaning of life. 2  You may sometimes be moody and introspective. 3  You operate beyond the normal senses of taste, sight, hearing etc. 4  You love law and order-justice is important to you-you'll defend people's rights until the end.
The color indigo is the color of intuition and perception and is helpful in opening the third eye. It promotes deep concentration during times of introspection and meditation, helping you achieve deeper levels of consciousness. It relies on intuition rather than gut feeling. Indigo is a deep midnight blue. It is a combination of deep blue and violet and holds the attributes of both these colors. Service to humanity is one of the strengths of the color indigo. Powerful and dignified, indigo conveys integrity and deep sincerity.
It is a color which relates to the New Age - the ability to use the Higher Mind to see beyond the normal senses with great powers of perception. It relies on intuition rather than gut feeling. Indigo is a deep midnight blue. It is a combination of deep blue and violet and holds the attributes of both these colors. Service to humanity is one of the strengths of the color indigo. Powerful and dignified, indigo conveys integrity and deep sincerity.
1 Indigo is a cool color. 2  Carrying the blue symbolism associated with the darker shades of blue, indigo conveys trust, truthfulness, and stability. 3  It also may have some of the authority and royalty of purple as indigo was considered a royal blue. 1 Indigo dye (approximation) | Hex #00416A (more blue) | RGB 0,65,106. 2  Indigo is a cool color. 3  Carrying the blue symbolism associated with the darker shades of blue, indigo conveys trust, truthfulness, and stability. 4
If Your Favorite Color is Indigo. ﻿ 1 With indigo as your favorite color, you are honest, compassionate and understanding. 2  Integrity is extremely important to you. 3  You need structure in your life-organization is important to you and you can be quite inflexible when it comes to order in your life. 1 Being a personality color indigo indicates you are hungry for the meaning of life. 2  You may sometimes be moody and introspective. 3  You operate beyond the normal senses of taste, sight, hearing etc. 4  You love law and order-justice is important to you-you'll defend people's rights until the end.
Indigo dye is an organic compound with a distinctive blue color (see indigo). Historically, indigo was a natural dye extracted from plants, and this process was important economically because blue dyes were once rare. A large percentage of indigo dye produced today – several thousand tons each year – is synthetic. On average, a pair of blue jean trousers requires 3–12 g of indigo. Small amounts are used for dyeing wool and silk. Indigo carmine, or indigo, is an indigo derivative which is also used as a colorant. About 20 million kg are produced annually, again mainly for blue jeans.
Indigo is a color that is traditionally regarded as a color on the visible spectrum, as well as one of the seven colors of the rainbow: the color between blue and violet. Although traditionally considered one of seven major spectral colors, its actual position in the electromagnetic spectrum is controversial. Indigo is a deep and bright color close to the color wheel blue (a primary color in the RGB color space), as well as to some variants of ultramarine. The color indigo was named after the indigo dye derived from the plant Indigofera tinctoria and related species. The color 'violet-blue' is a bluish tone of blue-violet. The Crayola color called 'violet-blue' is displayed at right. The Crayola crayon color called violet-blue was formulated in 1949 and continued as a Crayola color until 1990.