Definition. Grammatical error is a term used in prescriptive grammar to describe an instance of faulty, unconventional, or controversial usage, such as a misplaced modifier or an inappropriate verb tense. Also called a usage error. Compare grammatical error with correctness. 
err on the side of caution in British English. › to be ​especially ​careful ​rather than taking a ​risk or making a ​mistake: 25 ​people have ​replied to the ​invitation, but I've ​erred on the ​side of ​caution and put out 30 ​chairs. 
Definition. Difference between the actual value of a quantity and the value obtained by a measurement. Repeating the measurement will improve (reduce) the random error (caused by the accuracy limit of the measuring instrument) but not the systemic error (caused by incorrect calibration of the measuring instrument). 
Definition. Analytical technique that accounts for the number of acceptable errors in an experiment. The margin of error is put into place so that an individual can review results and then determine the level of accuracy of the experiment by taking this + or-margin of error into consideration. Nearby Terms. 1  maquiladora. 2  Mareva injuncti... 3  margin. 4  margin account. 5  margin buying. 6  margin call. 7  margin deposit. 8  margin loan. 9  margin of error. 10  margin of safet... 11  margin pressure. 12  margin requirem... 13  marginal accoun... 14  marginal analys... 15  marginal benefi... 16  marginal condit... 17  marginal cost.
Wikipedia Meaning and Definition on 'Err'. 1  Err: Err is the verb form of error or mistake. 2  Err, Pyrenees-Pyrénées: Orientales (Err: Catalan) er is a commune in The-Pyrenees pyrénées orientales department In. 3  Southern France: Lydie Err (lydie err Born 23 april 1949) in petange Pétange is.  a luxembourgish politician 1 Err: Err is the verb form of error or mistake. 2  Err, err or ERR may also refer to: Lydie Err, a Luxembourgian politician Err, a fictional character in the. 3  Err, Pyrenees-Pyrénées: Orientales (Err: Catalan) er is a commune in The-Pyrenees pyrénées orientales department In.  southern france
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. To err is defined as to make a mistake or to do something wrong. When you add 2+2 and get 5, this is an example of a situation where you err. 
err on the side of. ◊ To err on the side of something, such as caution, is to use or show more of it than may be needed so that you can be sure that you are using or showing enough of it. It's better to err on the side of generosity [=to be too generous] than to be too stingy. We chose to err on the side of caution [=to be very cautious] when planning our investments. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. Comments & Questions. 
err verb [I]. › to make a ​mistake or to do something ​wrong: He erred in ​agreeing to her ​appointment to the ​position. Idioms. err on the side of caution. to err is human (to forgive divine). err verb [I]. › to make a ​mistake: It’s ​preferable to err on the ​side of ​caution (= to be too ​careful) ​rather than ​risk ​disaster. (Definition of err from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
Synonym Discussion of ERROR. error, mistake, and blunder mean an act or statement that is not right or true or proper. 
err. intr.v. erred, err·ing, errs. 1. To make an error or misjudgment: I erred in turning onto the dead-end street. 2. To commit an act that is wrong; do wrong. 3. err-wander from a direct course or at random; The child strayed from the path and her parents lost sight of her; don't drift from the set course. drift, stray.