Muscle soreness is a response to sports, exercise, work, travel, or daily activities. Exercise that leads to muscle soreness and pain causes increases in muscle enzymes in the bloodstream, inflammation, and structural damage. Muscle/tendon soreness affects virtually everyone, regardless if the patient is a serious athlete or engages in exercise on an intermittent, recreational basis. The widespread nature of muscle soreness is due partly to the various activities that produce it.
Myalgia can occur in any part of the body and last for days or months. However, muscle soreness that is not related to physical exertion or exercise may have an external cause or it may be a symptom of a medical condition. Localized muscle soreness is most often caused by stress, tension, injuries or overuse, according to the Mayo Clinic. Systemic muscle soreness, which is more widespread and may occur throughout the body, usually results from an infection, illness or medication.
Postexercise muscle soreness, also known as delayed-onset muscle soreness (DOMS), is defined as the sensation of discomfort or pain in the skeletal muscles following physical activity, usually eccentric, to which an individual is not accustomed. An apparent relationship exists between exercise intensity and the extent of soreness. Much evidence against the metabolic hypothesis also may be noted. The most convincing evidence is that the muscle contractions that cause the greatest degree of soreness require relatively low energy expenditure.
Exercise is thought to induce microtears in the muscle, leading to muscular soreness and fatigue. Significant research on muscle soreness has focused on eccentric muscle contractions. During this type of muscular movement, muscles lengthen, which causes the microtears characteristic of exercise-induced muscle damage. Muscle/tendon soreness affects virtually everyone, regardless if the patient is a serious athlete or engages in exercise on an intermittent, recreational basis. The widespread nature of muscle soreness is due partly to the various activities that produce it.
The soreness is caused by eccentric exercise, that is, exercise consisting of eccentric (lengthening) contractions of the muscle. Isometric (static) exercise causes much less soreness, and concentric (shortening) exercise causes none. Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), also called muscle fever, is the pain and stiffness felt in muscles several hours to days after unaccustomed or strenuous exercise. The soreness is felt most strongly 24 to 72 hours after the exercise. It is thought to be caused by eccentric (lengthening) exercise, which causes microtrauma to the muscle fibers. After such exercise, the muscle adapts rapidly to prevent muscle damage, and thereby soreness, if the exercise is repeated. Delayed onset muscle soreness is one symptom of exercise-induced muscle damage. The other is acute muscle soreness, which appears during and immediately after exercis
The severity of soreness you experience depends on the type of stress placed on the muscle. Exercise with a strong eccentric component, for example, running downhill, is shown to increase the chance of DOMS, which can last up to 5 days post workout. DOMS occurs within hours or days after your workout and often causes tenderness, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. Starting recovery immediately after your workout can greatly reduce muscle soreness and fatigue, and have you well on your way to a stronger, healthier body. Here is what we suggest. Water.
The rhythmic and tetanic contractions that cause the greatest acute fatigue and discomfort in the muscles during exercise result in the least delayed pain following the exertion. The structural damage is evident in muscles that are not trained for the particular exercise. An apparent relationship exists between exercise intensity and the extent of soreness. Much evidence against the metabolic hypothesis also may be noted. The most convincing evidence is that the muscle contractions that cause the greatest degree of soreness require relatively low energy expenditure.
Any activity in which the muscle produces higher forces than usual or in which it produces forces over a longer time period than usual can cause DOMS. According to Tiidus and Ianuzzo, the degree of muscle soreness is related to the intensity of the muscle contractions and to the duration of the exercise. The intensity seems to be more important in the determination than is the duration. An apparent relationship exists between exercise intensity and the extent of soreness. Much evidence against the metabolic hypothesis also may be noted. The most convincing evidence is that the muscle contractions that cause the greatest degree of soreness require relatively low energy expenditure.