What should I major in and... show more Right now i'm studying to become a Surgical Technologist and am interested in eventually becoming a Physician's Assistant. I have researched the field and found that it is a master's degree so I would have to take four years of college and get my bachelor's in something. 
Once certified, a surgical assistant can become a Certified First Assistant (CFA) or Certified Surgical Assistant (CSA). Like CST and TS-C certification, the certification process for CFAs and CSAs can improve a candidate's resume and open doors for higher paying jobs. Surgical assistants are also members of the operating room team. These professionals can do all the work that surgical technologists do, but they often have a more hands-on role during the procedure. Surgical assistants help the surgeon with tasks such as these: 1  Sponging.
First surgical assistants may complete a formal education program in surgical assisting. Others may work as a surgical technologist and receive additional on-the-job training before becoming a first assistant. 
If you tend to become bored easily, becoming a surgical tech may be a smart move for you. In this profession you are never tied down to a desk. In fact, most of your day is spent on your feet. You’ll also get to work with and interact with many people on a daily basis. Now you know... Becoming a surgical tech is worth it if you’re ready to finally leave behind your job to pursue a career you love. With building demand, excellent hands-on training and exciting earning potential, becoming a surgical tech opens a lot of possibilities for your future.
Some surgical assistants step into the job after earning a surgical assistant degree from a certified program, while others begin as surgical technologists and receive additional training on the job to work their way up to a first assistant position. Surgical assistants are also members of the operating room team. These professionals can do all the work that surgical technologists do, but they often have a more hands-on role during the procedure. Surgical assistants help the surgeon with tasks such as these: 1  Sponging.
How To Become a Surgical Tech. The field of surgical technology is expected to grow significantly, so it is good to be informed about the jobs of a surgical technologist and a first surgical assistant. A surgical tech is a vital part of the medical team working in operating rooms in hospitals. How About The Surgical Technician Starting Salaries. These professions are generally financially satisfying. The starting salary for a surgical tech, according to the Bureau for Labour Statistics, is approximately $24,000, whereas the average surgery tech salary is around $40,000. The Association of Surgical Technologists estimates the average surgical tech salary on $37,540 per year
You’re thinking about becoming a surgical tech but before you take the dive, you want to make sure it’s worth it. Maybe it’s the huge demand for healthcare professionals that’s piqued your interest. Maybe it’s the engaging classroom training or the teamwork setting in the workplace that intrigues you. Now you know... Becoming a surgical tech is worth it if you’re ready to finally leave behind your job to pursue a career you love. With building demand, excellent hands-on training and exciting earning potential, becoming a surgical tech opens a lot of possibilities for your future.
A surgical assistant is a registered nurse, physician assistant or surgical technologist who has attended a separate accredited program for 10 to 22 months. Surgical assistants may perform all the duties of a surgical technologist as well as additional tasks. Surgical technologists and surgical assistants are important members of the operating room team.