Phylogenetic systematics, a.k.a. evolutionary trees : Reading trees: A quick review. A phylogeny, or evolutionary tree, represents the evolutionary relationships among a set of organisms or groups of organisms, called taxa (singular: taxon). Evolutionary trees depict clades. A clade is a group of organisms that includes an ancestor and all descendants of that ancestor. You can think of a clade as a branch on the tree of life.
An evolutionary tree. In this evolutionary tree, species A and B share a common ancestor. Species F and G share a common ancestor, which itself shared a common ancestor with species E. All seven species share a common ancestor, probably from the distant past. Now try a Test Bite. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5
evolutionary tree. (evolution). A diagram that portrays the hypothesized genealogical ties and sequence of evolutionary relationships linking individual organisms, populations, or taxa. Also known as phylogenetic tree. A diagram that depicts the evolutionary relationship of protein or nucleic acid sequences. 1  Facebook
Evolutionary tree is the pictorial and schematic representation of evolution ary relations among species of living beings in which the trunk (or a preceding branch) represents common ascendants of species and groups of living beings that are distributed along its branches according to hypothesis on ... Evolutionary tree of changes in DNA sequence. A traceable molecular character inherited by all progeny. Bioinformatician ... Evolutionary tree showing the common ancestry of all three domain s of life .[17] Bacteria are colored blue, eukaryotes red, and archaea green.
A phylogenetic tree, also known as a phylogeny, is a diagram that depicts the lines of evolutionary descent of different species, organisms, or genes from a common ancestor. 
A phylogenetic tree, also called and evolutionary tree, is a tree showing the evolutionary relationships among various biological species or other entities that are believed to have a common ancestor of the descendants, and the edge lengths in some tree correspond to time estimates. 
A phylogenetic tree or evolutionary tree is a branching diagram or  tree  showing the inferred evolutionary relationships among various biological species or other entities—their phylogeny —based upon similarities and differences in their physical or genetic characteristics. This is normally done by including an outgroup in the input data so that the root is necessarily between the outgroup and the rest of the taxa in the tree, or by introducing additional assumptions about the relative rates of evolution on each branch, such as an application of the molecular clock hypothesis.
In a rooted phylogenetic tree, each node with descendants represents the inferred most recent common ancestor of the descendants, and the edge lengths in some trees may be interpreted as time estimates. Each node is called a taxonomic unit. This is normally done by including an outgroup in the input data so that the root is necessarily between the outgroup and the rest of the taxa in the tree, or by introducing additional assumptions about the relative rates of evolution on each branch, such as an application of the molecular clock hypothesis.
evolutionary tree A diagram showing the evolution ary history of organ isms based on differences in amino acid sequence s. Organ isms with fewer differences are placed closer together while those with more differences are further apart. PICTURE ... Evolutionary tree of changes in DNA sequence. A traceable molecular character inherited by all progeny. Bioinformatician ... Evolutionary tree showing the common ancestry of all three domain s of life .[17] Bacteria are colored blue, eukaryotes red, and archaea green.
The evolutionary tree of living things is currently supposed to run something along the lines of that listed below. Most of the tree was based on ideas from cladistics; where more than two groups are shown in a single branch, there is disagreement about how they diverged. Evolutionary tree of changes in DNA sequence. A traceable molecular character inherited by all progeny. Bioinformatician ... Evolutionary tree showing the common ancestry of all three domain s of life .[17] Bacteria are colored blue, eukaryotes red, and archaea green.