Recreational Therapists Overview. To become a Recreational Therapist, a bachelors degree in therapeutic recreation is the usual educational requirement. Some States regulate recreational therapists through licensure, registration, or regulation of titles, but requirements vary. Nature of the Work for Recreational Therapists. Recreational therapists are also known as therapeutic recreation specialists. They provide treatment services and recreational activities for individuals with disabilities or illnesses with a milieu of techniques.
Best Answer: Bill is right...as a HS student, you only need to focus on the courses required for entrance into college. I'd recommend at least: 4 years of English, 3 of both science and math. I'd also recommend 4 years of foreign language if it will get you out of doing it in college. Source(s): I am a PT. 
Recreational Therapist Recreational therapists, sometimes called activities therapists, plan and implement treatment programs in an effort to improve a patient s physical, mental, and emotional well being. High school students interested in becoming a recreational therapist should concentrate on courses in biology, algebra, English, literature, physical education, computer skills, physical science, psychology, sociology, and health occupations/medical professions education.
Although therapists typically need at least a bachelor’s degree in recreational therapy, in some cases therapists may qualify for certification with an alternate combination of education, training, and experience. Therapists must also take continuing education classes to maintain certification. Recreational therapists should be able to quickly think of adaptations to activities when a patients’ therapy plan requires adjustment. Leadership skills. Recreational therapists must be able to plan, develop, and implement intervention programs in an effective manner.
Recreational therapy or therapeutic recreation graduate programs can be found at the master's degree level. Current certification as a recreational therapist is a requirement for application to graduate programs. There are a limited number of recreational therapy master's degree programs available online. You'll be required to take the same courses as an on-campus student and complete an approved supervised field experience in your community.
To become a recreational therapist, it is necessary to have good educational credentials in recreational therapy or in any other health care-related subject. Many colleges offer bachelor’s degrees, associate's degrees, master’s degrees and doctoral degree programs in various types of recreational therapies. It will be a good idea for a student who wants to become a recreational therapist to research the offered programs. Anyone who wants to become a recreational therapist must also study human anatomy, physiology, psychology and medical terminology. They must learn about different types of illnesses and disabilities, about professional ethics, and about the use of assistance devices and technology.
Depending on State certification policies or employer mandates a recreational therapist may be required to become certified. To work in clinical settings, the National Council for Therapeutic Recreation Certification (NCTRC) often requires certification as well and a supervised internship of at least 480 hours. Nature of the Work for Recreational Therapists. Recreational therapists are also known as therapeutic recreation specialists. They provide treatment services and recreational activities for individuals with disabilities or illnesses with a milieu of techniques.
What Recreational Therapists Do About this section. A recreational therapist may introduce a therapy dog to a patient who needs help managing a disability or illness. Recreational therapists plan, direct, and coordinate recreation-based treatment programs for people with disabilities, injuries, or illnesses. Recreational therapists should be able to quickly think of adaptations to activities when a patients’ therapy plan requires adjustment. Leadership skills. Recreational therapists must be able to plan, develop, and implement intervention programs in an effective manner.
EDUCATION. To get the best jobs in recreational therapy, you'll need at least a bachelor's degree. You'll need a master's degree to work as an art therapist or a dance/movement therapist.