Auditory Processing Disorder (APD), also known as Central Auditory Processing Disorder (CAPD) is the reduced or impaired ability to discriminate, recognize or comprehend complex sounds, such as those used in words, even though the person's hearing is normal. 
Auditory Processing Disorder: Related Medical Conditions. To research the causes of Auditory Processing Disorder, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Auditory Processing Disorder: 1  Congenital cholesteatoma. 2  Presbycusis. 3  Measeles. 4  Mumps.
Auditory processing disorder. Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) means that the brain has difficulty making sense of the sounds that it hears. The child has a normal ability to hear sounds, but has difficulty understanding what the sounds mean. Contents. 1  Signs that a child may have an Auditory Processing Disorder. 
The disorder part of auditory processing disorder means that something is adversely affecting the processing or interpretation of the information. Children with APD often do not recognize subtle differences between sounds in words, even though the sounds themselves are loud and clear. Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) is a complex problem. The term is used by many people, in very different ways. There is research underway to help understand this disorder. There also is research to investigate therapies that will help individuals who may have an auditory processing disorde
The cause of APD is often unknown. In children, auditory processing difficulty may be associated with conditions such as dyslexia, attention deficit disorder, autism, autism spectrum disorder, specific language impairment, pervasive developmental disorder, or developmental delay.
The cause of APD is often unknown. In children, auditory processing difficulty may be associated with conditions such as dyslexia, attention deficit disorder, autism, autism spectrum disorder, specific language impairment, pervasive developmental disorder, or developmental delay. Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) is a complex problem. The term is used by many people, in very different ways. There is research underway to help understand this disorder. There also is research to investigate therapies that will help individuals who may have an auditory processing disorder
Auditory processing disorder (APD), also known as central auditory processing disorder (CAPD), is an umbrella term for a variety of disorders that affect the way the brain processes auditory information. 
Central Auditory Processing Disorder (CAPD). Central auditory processing disorder (CAPD) is said to affect about two percent of children. Children with CAPD display a number of behaviours similar to the symptoms associated with sensori-neural hearing loss. For example, they may complain that they find it difficult to hear when the classroom is noisy. 
Auditory Processing Disorder (APD) is an abnormality in the brain's ability to filter and process sounds and words. Individuals with APD have a neurological defect in the pathways from the auditory (hearing) nerve through the higher auditory pathways in the brain. 