The femur is a big bone. A big long bone. It is not dissimilar in architecture overall to the humerus and at its distal joint also to the finger and toe bones. Even the relative valgus of the tibia to the femur is not unlike the carrying angle of the ulna to the humerus.
The thigh is the region of the femur. At the proximal (in proximity to the body) is the hip. At the distal end (distant from the body) is the knee. Nobody uses the distinction of 'leg' to mean only a portion of the full leg from hip to toes.
It is a ball and socket joint at the juncture of the leg and pelvis. The rounded head of the femur (thighbone) forms the ball, which fits into the acetabulum (a cup-shaped socket in the pelvis). Ligaments connect the ball to the socket and usually provide tremendous stability to the joint.
Bones of the hip joint. Normal Hip Joint vs. Arthritic Hip Joint (image courtesy of: Stryker Orthopaedics). The femur is the upper leg bone or thigh. It is the largest bone in the body. At the top of the femur is a rounded protrusion which articulates with the pelvis. This portion is referred to as the head of the femur, or femoral head.
The femur, or thigh bone, is the longest, heaviest, and strongest bone in the entire human body. All of the body’s weight is supported by the femurs during many activities, such as running, jumping, walking, and standing.
Extreme forces also act upon the femur thanks to the strength of the muscles of the hip and thigh that act on the femur to move the leg. The femur is classified structurally as a long bone and is a major component of the appendicular skeleton....
• O: outer surface of the ilium just below the crest • I: greater trochanter • Actions: • Abduction of the hip • Anterior ﬁbers: Internal rotation and ﬂexion • Posterior ﬁbers: External rotation and extension Gluteus Medius Posterior Anterior.
• Common action is External Rotation • Powerful external rotation of the hip is required to throw a baseball, swing a bat or golf club. • The sciatic nerve passes just inferior to the piriformis therefore a tight piriformis muscle my contribute to compression on the sciatic nerve.