Gene. The term  gene  refers to a functional segment of DNA, which in eukaryotic cell s would be a part of a chromosome in the nucleus of the cell. Gene duplication occurs when an error in DNA replication leads to the duplication of a region of DNA containing a (generally functional) gene. Gene therapy. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gene therapy is the use of DNA as a pharmaceutical agent to treat disease. It derives its name from the idea that DNA can be used to supplement or alter genes within an individual's cells as a therapy
Definition of Gene Expression. A gene is a small piece of genetic material written in a code and called DNA. Each gene has within it a set of instructions for making molecules that organisms need to survive. Genes themselves cannot be used by an organism. Instead they must be turned into a gene product. Gene expression is the process by which the information contained within a gene becomes a useful product.
Definition of GENE for Kids. : a unit of DNA that is usually located on a chromosome and that controls the development of one or more traits and is the basic unit by which genetic information is passed from parent to offspring.
gene. A segment of DNA, occupying a specific place on a chromosome, that is the basic unit of heredity. Genes act by directing the synthesis of proteins, which are the main components of cells and are the catalysts of all cellular processes. gene - (genetics) a segment of DNA that is involved in producing a polypeptide chain; it can include regions preceding and following the coding DNA as well as introns between the exons; it is considered a unit of heredity; genes were formerly called factors. cistron, factor.
Definition: Genes are segments of DNA located on chromosomes. Genes exist in alternative forms called alleles. Alleles determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring. The process by which genes are transmitted was discovered by Gregor Mendel and formulated in what is known as Mendel's law of segregation.
Gene. Definition. noun, plural: genes. (cell and molecular biology). The fundamental, physical, and functional unit of heredity. Supplement. It is because a gene is a segment of DNA (on a specific site on a chromosome) that is responsible for the physical and inheritable characteristics or phenotype of an organism. It also specifies the structure of a protein, and an RNA molecule. A gene is formerly called a factor
Each gene is a specific segment of DNA, occupying a fixed place on a chromosome. Genes contain the chemical information needed to create different kinds of proteins. gene - (genetics) a segment of DNA that is involved in producing a polypeptide chain; it can include regions preceding and following the coding DNA as well as introns between the exons; it is considered a unit of heredity; genes were formerly called factors. cistron, factor.
The term  gene  refers to a functional segment of DNA, which in eukaryotic cell s would be a part of a chromosome. ~ : The process by which genes express themselves: in the cell, ge ne expression results in the manufacture of proteins that determine an organ ism's character istics. Gene expression is the process by which the inheritable information in a gene, such as the DNA sequence, is made into a functional gene product, such as protein or RNA. Gene expression is the process of taking genetic information in DNA and trans lating it into biological functions such as protein synthesis.