N-benzyl-n-methylamine is used in pharmaceuticals. MMA is also used to make intermediates for chlordiazepoxide and lorazepam tranquilizers, nortryptylene antidepressant, isometheptene veterinary smooth muscle relaxant, iothalamic acid x-ray contrast medium, and levothyroxine. (Mono-and Dimethylamine). The manufacture of intermediates to make pharmaceuticals is one of the most diverse uses of methylamines. The reaction of monomethylamine and ethylene oxide creates two key intermediates: methyldiethanolamine (MDEA) and monomethylethanolamine (NMEA) (see Gas and Oil Treatment).
In Breaking Bad, methylamine is used by Walter White and Jesse Pinkman as they use reductive amination of phenylacetone (P2P) to yield methamphetamine-a process they devised to circumvent the need to buy pseudoephedrine. The methylamine keeps flowing, no matter what. We are not ramping down. We're just getting started. Nothing stops this train.. ― Walter White. Methylamine (CH 3 NH 2) is an organic compound. The gas is a derivative of ammonia, but with one H atom replaced by a methyl group. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal containers
Aqueous Methylamine (40%) is used to prepare animal hides for taxidermy, especially when it is vital to preserve the hair. Synthesis of complex ring structures via the Mannich Condensation in conjunction with an aldehyde and a ketone. The expected, not theoretical, yield of Methylamine from this amount of reactants is 7 grams. I have used a plastic aquarium aerator tube as the bubbler with excellent results. Sure beats using an inverted funnel.
Methylamine is used as a building block for the synthesis of many other commercially available compounds. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal containers. Industrially, methylamine is transported in its anhydrous form in pressurized railcars and tank trailers. It has a strong odor similar to fish.
Methylamine is used to produce a variety of important chemical products: pharmaceuticals; pesticides; fuel additives; explosives; solvents and cleaning agents; photographic precessing chemicals; and chemicals for the tanning of leather and dye processes. Under normal conditions, Methylamine is a colourless gas. At high concentrations, it has a pungent, acrid smell. Methylamine is flammable. It is often found in solution with water and is also soluble in most organic (carbon-containing) solvents. Methylamine is one of a group of substances known as the volatile organic compounds (VOCs)
Production. Methylamine is prepared commercially by the reaction of ammonia with methanol in the presence of a silicoaluminate catalyst. Dimethylamine and trimethylamine are coproduced; the reaction kinetics and reactant ratios determine the ratio of the three products. The methylamine keeps flowing, no matter what. We are not ramping down. We're just getting started. Nothing stops this train.. ― Walter White. Methylamine (CH 3 NH 2) is an organic compound. The gas is a derivative of ammonia, but with one H atom replaced by a methyl group. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal container
Methylamine is the organic compound with a formula of CH3NH2. This colourless gas is a derivative of ammonia, wherein one H atom is replaced by a methyl group. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal containers. It has a strong odour similar to fish. Methylamine is used as a building block for the synthesis of many other commercially available compounds. Production Methylamine is prepared commercially by the reaction of ammonia with methanol in the presence of a silicoaluminate catalyst.
Methylamine is an organic compound with a formula of CH 3 NH 2. This colorless gas is a derivative of ammonia, but with one H atom replaced by a methyl group. It is the simplest primary amine. It is sold as a solution in methanol, ethanol, THF, and water, or as the anhydrous gas in pressurized metal containers. Industrially, methylamine is transported in its anhydrous form in pressurized railcars and tank trailers. It has a strong odor similar to fish.