Geodon belongs to a group of medications called atypical (or second-generation) antipsychotic medications. It is not entirely known how it works for the treatment of schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. However, it is known that the drug blocks or lessens the effects of several chemicals in the brain. These brain chemicals (such as dopamine and serotonin) may be elevated in people with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder (also known as manic depression). Geodon is not a cure for bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. It only helps to control symptoms (see Symptoms of Schizophrenia or Bipolar Disorder Symptoms) 
GEODON is a type of prescription medicine. called a psychotropic, also known as an atypical antipsychotic. GEODON can be used to treat symptoms of schizophrenia. and acute manic or mixed episodes associated with. bipolar disorder. It is used to treat acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder. GEODON is also used as maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder when added to lithium or valproate (Depakote) and to treat
Indications. GEODON (ziprasidone HCl) is a prescription medicine. It is used to treat acute manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar disorder. GEODON is also used as maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder when added to lithium or valproate (Depakote) and to treat schizophrenia. For full symptoms and diagnostic criteria, see the DSM-IV-TR (2000)
INDICATIONS. GEODON is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia, as monotherapy for the acute treatment of bipolar manic or mixed episodes, and as an adjunct to lithium or valproate for the maintenance treatment of bipolar disorder. GEODON intramuscular is indicated for acute agitation in schizophrenic patients. 
A: Geodon (ziprasidone) is an atypical antipsychotic used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. The most common side effects of Geodon are anxiety, constipation, dizziness, drowsiness and nausea. I have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. A: Geodon (ziprasidone) is a medication that is used to treat schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Geodon is manufactured by Pfizer and is currently protected by a patent that does not allow a generic to be produced until after March 2012. This is the earliest possible time that a generic will be allowed to be produced
Geodon is the brand name of the drug ziprasidone, which is used to treat symptoms of schizophrenia and certain types of bipolar disorder. The medicine is in a class of drugs known as atypical antipsychotics, which works by altering the activity of neurotransmitters in the brain. I have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. A: Geodon (ziprasidone) is a medication that is used to treat schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. Geodon is manufactured by Pfizer and is currently protected by a patent that does not allow a generic to be produced until after March 2012. This is the earliest possible time that a generic will be allowed to be produced
Three Methods: Rest Food and drink Other treatments. Migraines can be an extremely debilitating and painful problem. The pain is caused by irritation to parts of the brain structure, like the dura, nerves, or covering of the brain called meninges. The three most common types of headaches are cluster, tension, and migraine
Geodon (ziprasidone HCl) is available as capsules and Geodon (ziprasidone mesylate) is available as an injection for intramuscular use. Possible serious side effects of Geodon include fainting or loss of consciousness or heart palpitations. Our Geodon Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Ziprasidone is an oral and injectable drug that is used for treating psychoses, for example, schizophrenia. Although the mechanism of action of ziprasidone is not known, like other anti-psychotics, it inhibits communication between nerves of the brain. 