The subunits are tethered at the membrane surface by covalently attached lipid molecules. When a ligand binds, the receptor activates the attached G-protein by causing the exchange of GTP (yellow) for GDP (red). The activated G-protein then dissociates into an alpha (G-alpha) and a beta-gamma complex. After GTP hydrolysis, G-alpha bound to GDP can reassociate with a beta-gamma complex to form an inactive trimeric G-protein that can again associate with a receptor. The GTPase activity of the G-alpha is speeded up by other proteins--sometimes the target protein, sometimes a separate regulatory protein.
The receptors are proteins with seven transmembrane alpha-helices. View this ANIMATION to see the sequence of events during the activation of a receptor coupled to a trimeric G protein. The binding of the hormone or neurotransmitter to the receptor causes GTP to replace GDP on the alpha subunit. As a result, the alpha subunit dissociates from the other two. 
The largest family of cell surface receptors are the G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). There are hundreds of different GPCR proteins, and they are the targets of many drugs. A diverse set of ligands bind to this type of receptor, including peptide hormones, neurotransmitters, and odor molecules. After GTP hydrolysis, G-alpha bound to GDP can reassociate with a beta-gamma complex to form an inactive trimeric G-protein that can again associate with a receptor. The GTPase activity of the G-alpha is speeded up by other proteins--sometimes the target protein, sometimes a separate regulatory protein.
G proteins are molecular switches that are activated by receptor-catalyzed GTP for GDP exchange on the G protein alpha subunit, which is the rate-limiting step in the activation of all downstream signaling. Heterotrimeric G proteins couple the activation of heptahelical receptors at the cell surface to the intracellular signaling cascades that mediate the physiological responses to extracellular stimuli.
Whereas G proteins are activated by G protein-coupled receptors, they are inactivated by RGS proteins (for Regulator of G protein signalling). Receptors stimulate GTP binding (turning the G protein on). Different types of heterotrimeric G proteins share a common mechanism. They are activated in response to a conformational change in the GPCR, exchanging GDP for GTP, and dissociating in order to activate other proteins in a particular signal transduction pathway.
The GTP (or GDP) is bound to the G α subunit in the traditional view of heterotrimeric GPCR activation. This exchange triggers the dissociation of the G α subunit (which is bound to GTP) from the G βγ dimer and the receptor as a whole. Different types of heterotrimeric G proteins share a common mechanism. They are activated in response to a conformational change in the GPCR, exchanging GDP for GTP, and dissociating in order to activate other proteins in a particular signal transduction pathway.
G proteins located within the cell are activated by G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) that span the cell membrane. Signaling molecules bind to a domain of the GPCR located outside the cell, and an intracellular GPCR domain then in turn activates a particular G protein. Different types of heterotrimeric G proteins share a common mechanism. They are activated in response to a conformational change in the GPCR, exchanging GDP for GTP, and dissociating in order to activate other proteins in a particular signal transduction pathway.
In the inactive resting complex, the Gα subunit is bound to the guanine nucleotide, guanosine diphosphate (GDP), but when a receptor is activated, the receptor can catalyze nucleotide exchange reactions on the Gα subunit. GDP leaves and guanosine triphosphate GTP enters instead. Termination of GPCR signaling. Termination of signaling requires turning off activated receptors, turning off activated G-proteins, and return of second messenger levels, protein phosphorylation levels, and other changed metabolites to their original values. Consider the first two.
B. These proteins are activated after ligand binding and catalyze the exchange of GDP by GTP bound to the  subunit. to study the initial steps of G-protein activation by agonist-bound receptors in a quantitative manner, we wish to analyze the binding of radiolabeled GTP analogues. binding of [35S]GTPS to G-proteins is limited by the dissociation of GDP from the binding sites. 2. two components may contribute to this agonist-independent reaction: a. spontaneous, receptor-independent dissociation of G-protein bound GDP.
When they are bound to GTP, they are 'on', and, when they are bound to GDP, they are 'off'. G proteins belong to the larger group of enzymes called GTPases. There are two classes of G proteins. The first function as monomeric small GTPases, while the second form and function as heterotrimeric G protein complexes. Different types of heterotrimeric G proteins share a common mechanism. They are activated in response to a conformational change in the GPCR, exchanging GDP for GTP, and dissociating in order to activate other proteins in a particular signal transduction pathway.