There are two types of mechanical configurations for optical encoders: rotary encoders and linear encoders. Optical rotary encoders are most commonly found in motion control systems while linear encoders are used more specifically for linear-positioning applications such as piston or actuator monitoring systems. Incremental optical encoders are the simplest and most commonly used. The encoder provides information about the instantaneous position of a rotating shaft by producing one square wave cycle per increment of shaft movement.
For example, an incremental encoder with a single code track, referred to as a tachometer encoder, generates a pulse signal whose frequency indicates the velocity of displacement. However, the output of the single-channel encoder does not indicate direction. To determine direction, a two-channel, or quadrature, encoder uses two detectors and two code tracks. The most common type of incremental encoder uses two output channels (A and B) to sense position. Using two code tracks with sectors positioned 90 out of phase, the two output channels of the quadrature encoder indicate both position and direction of rotation. The most popular type of encoder is the optical encoder, which consists of a rotating disk, a light source, and a photo detector (light sensor). The disk, which is mounted on the rotating shaft, has patterns of opaque and transparent sectors coded into the disk (see Figure 1).
A rotary encoder, also called a shaft encoder, is an electro-mechanical device that converts the angular position or motion of a shaft or axle to an analog or digital code. There are two main types: absolute and incremental (relative). A variation on the Incremental encoder is the sine wave encoder. Instead of producing two quadrature square waves, the outputs are quadrature sine waves (a sine and a cosine). By performing the arctangent function, arbitrary levels of resolution can be achieved.
As an electro-mechanical device, an encoder is able to provide motion control system users with information concerning position, velocity and direction. There are two different types of encoders: linear and rotary. A linear encoder responds to motion along a path, while a rotary encoder responds to rotational motion. Absolute encoders operate in the same manner as incremental encoders, but have different output methods. The resolution of an absolute encoder is described in bits. The output of absolute encoders is relative to its position in a form of a digital word.
A rotary encoder using optical sensing technology relies on the rotation of an internal code disc that has opaque lines and patterns on it. The disc is rotated (hence the name rotary encoder) in a beam of light such as an LED and the markings on the disc act as shutters blocking and unblocking the light. Incremental optical encoders are the simplest and most commonly used. The encoder provides information about the instantaneous position of a rotating shaft by producing one square wave cycle per increment of shaft movement.
The encoder can be either incremental or absolute. Motion can be determined by change in position over time. Linear encoder technologies include optical, magnetic, inductive, capacitive and eddy current. Optical technologies include shadow, self imaging and interferometric. A linear encoder is a sensor, transducer or readhead paired with a scale that encodes position. The sensor reads the scale in order to convert the encoded position into an analog or digital signal, which can then be decoded into position by a digital readout (DRO) or motion controller.
Incremental Encoders. An encoder is an electrical mechanical device that converts linear or rotary displacement into digital or pulse signals. The most popular type of encoder is the optical encoder, which consists of a rotating disk, a light source, and a photo detector (light sensor). The disk, which is mounted on the rotating shaft, has patterns of opaque and transparent sectors coded into the disk (see Figure 1).
With incremental encoders, you can measure only changes in position (from which you can determine velocity and acceleration), but it is not possible to determine the absolute position of an object. A third type of encoder, called an absolute encoder, is capable of determining the absolute position of an object. An encoder is an electromechanical device that can measure motion or position. Most encoders use optical sensors to provide electrical signals in the form of pulse trains, which can, in turn, be translated into motion, direction,