Lt. Governor is generally the one who ascends to the governors position, some states however don't have a Lt. Governor and the position is assumed by either the Speaker of the assembly or house, or the President of the Senate, some states even have the Secretary of State assume the position. 
An acting governor is a constitutional position created in some U.S. states when the governor dies in office or resigns. In some states, the governor may also be declared to be incapacitated and unable to function for various reasons, including illness and absence from the state for more than a specified period. The acting governor serves either until the next general election, until the governor recovers from his/her injuries, or, if the governor dies/ resigns occurs less than 16 months before end of the term, until the end of the term.
If the governor-elect dies before taking office, the lieutenant governor-elect shall take the term of the governor-elect. On the death, conviction or impeachment, or resignation of the governor, the lieutenant governor shall become governor for the remainder of the term. In the event of the impeachment of the governor or of the lieutenant governor, the governor or the lieutenant governor shall not exercise the powers of the applicable office until acquitted. Statute §26-2 Order of succession to offices of governor and lieutenant governor.
In many states, the person succeeding to the governorship or becoming acting governor is the lieutenant governor; however, not all states have such a position. The acting governor serves either until the next general election, until the governor recovers from his/her injuries, or, if the governor dies/ resigns occurs less than 16 months before end of the term, until the end of the term.
The President Pro Tempore of the Senate would become Lieutenant Governor and could then become Governor if another vacancy should occur. If the President Pro Tempore should become Governor, that seat in the Senate would become vacant and would be filled by election as any other Senate vacancy. The Constitution provides for the Lieutenant Governor to be elected jointly with the Governor (see Article IV, Section 4). The Constitution of 1874 called for the Lieutenant Governor to be chosen at the same time, in the same manner, for the same term and subject to the same provisions as the Governor..
Eugene Talmadge. There was one problem with this plan: the new state constitution created the office of lieutenant governor, which would be filled for the first time in the 1946 election. The lieutenant governor would become chief executive if the governor died in office. When the General Assembly elected Talmadge's son as governor, the newly elected lieutenant governor, Melvin Thompson, claimed the office of governor, and the outgoing governor, Ellis Arnall, refused to leave office. Eventually, the Georgia Supreme Court settled the controversy.
In the 2010 election for the lieutenant governor of Rhode Island, 40% of the vote was won by a perennial candidate who wanted to abolish the office, saying If you open up the dictionary to ‘ sinecure ,’ you have a picture of the lieutenant governor of Rhode island. There are some exceptions to this. In 25 states, the governor and lieutenant governor are elected on the same ticket, ensuring that they come from the same political party.
In the remaining three states – Arizona, Oregon, and Wyoming – the Secretary of State becomes governor upon the office's vacancy. The U.S. commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands and the U.S. territories of American Samoa, Guam, and the Virgin Islands have the office of lieutenant governor. In 25 states, the governor and lieutenant governor are elected on the same ticket, ensuring that they come from the same political party.
In the event a governor dies, resigns or is removed from office, the lieutenant governor typically becomes governor. In 25 states, the governor and lieutenant governor are elected on the same ticket, ensuring that they come from the same political party.
In many states, if the Lieutenant Governor succeeds to the governorship, he or she is regarded as a new and succeeding governor in every sense, just as occurs when the Vice President of the United States becomes President of the United States when that office is vacated by death or resignation. The acting governor serves either until the next general election, until the governor recovers from his/her injuries, or, if the governor dies/ resigns occurs less than 16 months before end of the term, until the end of the term.