Achilles Heel is an old saying about a guy who is invincible except for his heel. the moral is that everybody has a weakness. Example: The spiders are her Achilles Heel or it … means: the only thing that can scare her are spiders. His mother dipped all of Achilles in the river Styx all except his heel. 1 Diagnosing and Treating Heel and Achilles Pain The purpose of your Achilles tendon is to attach the plantaris, soleus and calf muscles to the heel bone. 2  It the body's strongest and largest tendon because of the load your 3  …. Orthotic Options When the Side of Your Heel Hurts Foot pain can be utterly crippling.
A weak or vulnerable factor. The legend of Achilles has it that he was dipped into the river Styx by his mother Thetis in order to make him invulnerable. Origin. The legend of Achilles has it that he was dipped into the river Styx by his mother Thetis in order to make him invulnerable. His heel wasn't covered by the water and he was later killed by an arrow wound to his heel. Although the legend is ancient, the phrase wasn't picked up in English until the 19th century
An Achilles heel is a weakness in spite of overall strength, which can actually or potentially lead to downfall. While the mythological origin refers to a physical vulnerability, idiomatic references to other attributes or qualities that can lead to downfall are common. Synonyms. The use of “Achilles heel” as an expression meaning “area of weakness, vulnerable spot” dates only to 1840, with implied use in Samuel Taylor Coleridge 's Ireland, that vulnerable heel of the British Achilles! from 1810 (Oxford English Dictionary).
What is the mythological reference to an Achilles Heel or Achilles' Heel? Answer: The story of Achilles includes the attempt by his mother, the nymph Thetis, to make her son immortal. 
The Achilles tendon or heel cord, also known as the calcaneal tendon (Latin: Tendo calcaneus), is a tendon of the back of the leg, and the thickest in the human body. It serves to attach the plantaris, gastrocnemius (calf) and soleus muscles to the calcaneus (heel) bone. Achilles tendon at foetus. The Achilles tendon is a tendon, meaning it connects muscle to bone, and is located at the back of the lower leg.
Synonyms. 1  This is my one weakness, my Achilles' heel, if you will. 2  It seems to me that we have come to accept death on Earth as part of our human flaw, as our Achilles' heel. 3  In the circumstances, worrying about being thought mad or humourless seems a peculiar Achilles' heel. 
An Achilles tendon injury can affect both professional and amateur athletes. The Achilles tendon is one of the longer tendons in your body, stretching from the bones of your heel to your calf muscles. You can feel it -- a springy band of tissue at the back of your ankle and above your heel. It allows you to extend your foot and point your toes to the floor. 1 Problems with the feet; an Achilles tendon injury can result from flat feet, also known as fallen arches or overpronation. 2  In this condition, the impact of a step causes the arch of your foot to collapse, stretching the muscles and tendons. 3  Muscles or tendons in the leg that are too tight.