The State Convention chooses 25 of 28 delegates from Alaska to the Republican National Convention according to the results of the District Conventions. Note: National Convention delegates may be elected at the Tuesday 1 March 2016 Caucuses. In addition, 3 party leaders, the National Committeeman, the National Committeewoman, and the chairman of the Alaska's Republican Party, are elected at today's state convention and will attend the National Convention as unpledged delegates by virtue of their position.
Alaska is often characterized as a Republican-leaning state with strong libertarian tendencies. Local political communities often work on issues related to land use development, fishing, tourism, and individual rights. When the United States Congress, in 1957 and 1958, debated the wisdom of admitting it as the 49th state, much of the political debate centered on whether Alaska would become a Democratic or Republican-leaning state.
Alaska GOP Senate candidate Dan Sullivan claims that he did not know about reported sexual assault within the state's National Guard when he was the state's attorney general until after the allegations became public. But Republican Gov. Sean Parnell won't release the records to prove it. Bruce Botelho, an Alaska Democrat who served as attorney general from 1994 to 2002, and Jim Ayers, who served as chief of staff to former Democratic Gov. Tony Knowles, say it would be highly unlikely for a governor not to consult his top lawyer about such serious allegations.
Dan Sullivan, candidate for the Republican candidate for election to the U.S. Senate, waves along a busy street on the morning of Alaska's primary election Tuesday, in Anchorage. The historically Republican lean of Alaska is fueling GOP hopes for a victory. Begich is touting his independence, record of working with Republicans, and clout he's gained in Washington in his bid for a second term.
Former Alaska Attorney General Dan Sullivan won the Republican nomination for U.S. Senate in Alaska. The historically Republican lean of Alaska is fueling GOP hopes for a victory. Begich is touting his independence, record of working with Republicans, and clout he's gained in Washington in his bid for a second term.
In 2008, Republican John McCain defeated Democrat Barack Obama in Alaska, 59.49% to 37.83%. McCain's running mate was Sarah Palin, the state's governor and the first Alaskan on a major party ticket. When the United States Congress, in 1957 and 1958, debated the wisdom of admitting it as the 49th state, much of the political debate centered on whether Alaska would become a Democratic or Republican-leaning state.
JUNEAU, Alaska (AP) — Republican Dan Sullivan won Alaska's U.S. Senate race, defeating incumbent Democrat Mark Begich. The win boosts the Republican Party's new majority in the Senate. (Nov. 12) AP. Republican U.S. Senate candidate Dan Sullivan, center, greets supporters on election night, Tuesday, Nov. 4, 2014, in Anchorage Alaska. Sullivan is challenging U.S. Sen. Mark Begich, D-Alaska. 
Alaska's United States Senators belong to Class 2 and Class 3. In 2008, Democrat Mark Begich, mayor of Anchorage, defeated long-time Republican senator Ted Stevens. Stevens had been convicted on seven felony counts of failing to report gifts on Senate financial discloser forms one week before the election. When the United States Congress, in 1957 and 1958, debated the wisdom of admitting it as the 49th state, much of the political debate centered on whether Alaska would become a Democratic or Republican-leaning state.
212 CONNECT 126 TWEET LINKEDIN 9 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. ANCHORAGE — Former Alaska attorney general Dan Sullivan won the Republican nomination for U.S. Senate, delivering a victory to the party establishment in the last contested GOP primary for the midterm elections. The historically Republican lean of Alaska is fueling GOP hopes for a victory. Begich is touting his independence, record of working with Republicans, and clout he's gained in Washington in his bid for a second term.
Although Alaska entered the union as a Democratic state, since the early 1960s Alaska has been characterized as Republican-leaning. Local political communities have often worked on issues related to land use development, fishing, tourism, and individual rights. When the United States Congress, in 1957 and 1958, debated the wisdom of admitting it as the 49th state, much of the political debate centered on whether Alaska would become a Democratic or Republican-leaning state.