HI'ians speak mostly english, however, they do have their own language which many of us speak daily. In the early 1950's the US government tried to abolish the language (imagi … ne the nerve...), but it survuved, and today, there is a massive movement to bring it back. Haoles speak English, locals speak pigeon, a type of broken English mix … ed with Hawaiian and Japanese words that have been truncated and butchered to the point that they have become their own word with their own meaning. Garanz Ball Bearenz, for example means guaranteed. 12 people found this useful
The Hawaiian language (Hawaiian: ʻŌlelo Hawaiʻi) is a Polynesian language that takes its name from Hawaiʻi, the largest island in the tropical North Pacific archipelago where it developed. Hawaiian, along with English, is an official language of the state of Hawaii. King Kamehameha III established the first Hawaiian-language constitution in 1839 and 1840. American missionaries bound for Hawai ʻ i used the phrases Owhihe Language and Owhyhee language in Boston prior to their departure in October 1819 and during their five-month voyage to Hawai'i. They still used such phrases as late as March 1822.
The main languages of Hawaii are English, hawaiian (native), spanish, french, Italian and Portuguese. they speak Hawaiian, English and they have a language that is native to their country called Pigeon (i think thats whats its called!) hope thats helped :) xx. 6 people found this useful.
They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish). they speak Hawaiian, English and they have a language that is native to their country called Pigeon (i think thats whats its called!) hope thats helped :) xx. 6 people found this useful.
Of course, you do not need to speak Hawaiian (or Pidgin for that matter) to enjoy Hawai'i. English is everywhere. However, most of the names of towns, streets, places, and scenic sites are in Hawaiian. Learning a bit about the language can greatly improve your pronunciation and reading of Hawaiian words. For example, in English we would say The big red car; in Hawaiian we would say Ke ka'a nui 'ula (The car big red). All About Ke and Ka As you see Hawaiian words and names used you will notice that a huge number of the words begin with either Ke or Ka. Both Ke and Ka are equivalent to the English word the.
Useful Hawaiian phrases. A collection of useful phrases in Hawaiian, a Polynesian language spoken in Hawaii. To see these phrases in many other languages click on the English versions. Guide to abbreviations: inf = informal, frm = formal, sg = singular (to one person), dl = dual (to two people), pl = plural (to three or more people). 
They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian. Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too. Pigeon -- English slang. There is a native Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish). Haoles speak English, locals speak pigeon, a type of broken English mix … ed with Hawaiian and Japanese words that have been truncated and butchered to the point that they have become their own word with their own meaning. Garanz Ball Bearenz, for example means guaranteed. 12 people found this useful
The Hawaiian language takes its name from the largest island, Hawaii (Hawaiʻi in the Hawaiian language), in the tropical North Pacific archipelago where it developed, originally from a Polynesian language of the South Pacific, most likely Marquesan or Tahitian. American missionaries bound for Hawai ʻ i used the phrases Owhihe Language and Owhyhee language in Boston prior to their departure in October 1819 and during their five-month voyage to Hawai'i. They still used such phrases as late as March 1822.
Haoles speak English, locals speak pigeon, a type of broken English mixed with Hawaiian and Japanese words that have been truncated and butchered to the point that they have become their own word with their own meaning. Garanz Ball Bearenz, for example means guaranteed. they speak Hawaiian, English and they have a language that is native to their country called Pigeon (i think thats whats its called!) hope thats helped :) xx. 6 people found this useful.