Report Abuse. Chamoru is the native language of Guam, but English is the dominant one. Chamoru is spoken throughout a small chain of islands here in the Pacific, so it isn't unique to Guam. And as Kasai posted, you can trace the Chamoru language as far back as ancient Austronesian. Source(s): Hafa Adai from the island of Guam! Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The official languages on Guam are Chamorro and English. Both languages are taught in the schools and appear in official documents. The Chamorro (Chamoru) language derives its origins over 5000 years ago.
Chamorro (Chamorro: Finu' Chamorro or Chamoru) is a Malayo-Polynesian language (Austronesian) spoken by about 47,000 people (about 35,000 people on Guam and about 12,000 in the Northern Mariana Islands). It is reported that even in the early 1920s Spanish was still reported to be a living language in Guam for commercial transactions, but the usage of both Spanish and Chamorro was rapidly declining as a result of the English pressure.
Semi-official status. Active language use. All speakers on Saipan are bilingual in Chamorro. Most also speak English. Southern Carolinian has 95% lexical similarity with Satawal, 88% with Woleaian and Puluwat; 81% with Mortlockese; 78% with Trukese, 74% with Ulithian. Dictionary. Fishermen mainly; agriculturalists: vegetables; livestock: cattle, pigs, goats
Confidence votes 239. English is the official language, but 86% of the population speaks a language other than English at home, including the native languages Chamorro and Carolinian. Basic Japanese is also spoken by many in the tourist industry. Chinese and Korean are also widely used. English is the official language, but 86% of the population speaks a language other than English at home, including the native languages Chamorro and Carolinian. Basic Japanese is also spoken by many in the tourist industry
Saipan /saɪˈpaen/ saɪˈpæn is the largest island of The Northern Mariana, islands a commonwealth of The United states in the Western Pacific. ocean Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System serves Saipan. Northern Marianas College is a two-year community college serving the Northern Mariana Islands. Eucon International College is a four-year college that offers degrees in Bible and Education.
Saipan, the administrative center of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI), is about a hundred miles north of Guam in the Western Pacific. On your world map, imagine a line drawn due East from the Philippines and another drawn due South of Japan. The lines intersect in the vicinity of Saipan. 
Saipan is the second largest island in the Mariana Islands archipelago, after Guam. It is located about 120 mi (190 km) north of Guam and 5 nautical miles (9.3 km) northeast of Tinian, from which it is separated by the Saipan Channel. Saipan is about 12 mi (19 km) long and 5.6 mi (9.0 km) wide, with a land area of 115.38 km 2 (44.55 sq mi). Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands Public School System serves Saipan. Northern Marianas College is a two-year community college serving the Northern Mariana Islands. Eucon International College is a four-year college that offers degrees in Bible and Education.
.mp. The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI) is in political union with (and in practice, close to a territory of) the United States. The islands are in the Micronesia region of the Pacific Ocean, between Japan, the Philippines, and Palau. Map of Northern Mariana Islands. English is the official language and universally spoken, but 86% of the population speaks a language other than English at home, including the native languages Chamorro and Carolinian. Basic Japanese is also spoken by many in the tourist industry. Tagalog, Chinese and Korean are also used widely.