Meaning of Triquetra-Trinity Knot-Celtic Triangle. By Gaelyn Larrick. The triquetra is a three part ancient symbol comprised of three interlocked vesica pices, often used to represent people or concepts in groups of three. Also known as the trinity knot and Celtic triangle, it has been found in Celtic art, paganism and also has been used in Christianity. The triquetra symbol has been found on stones, in northern Europe, that date back to before 1,000 AD.
Here are a few of the meanings of celtic knots. The Eternity Celtic knot symbolizes the never-ending eternal circle of life. The Shield Celtic knot is a symbol for protection. The ancient Celts used it to decorate the shields of warriors, the clothing of children, and to protect the sick. Welcome to our celtic symbols page. The celts had a lot of symbols in their lore, this page features some of the most popular knots, and symbols that the celtic people recognized and used in their symbolism.
This symbol is also known as the trinity knot. The more common triquetra symbol is below. The word triquetra originally meant triangle and was to describe triangle-shaped objects. The triquetra is most known for it's meaning as the trinity (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit). Welcome to our celtic symbols page. The celts had a lot of symbols in their lore, this page features some of the most popular knots, and symbols that the celtic people recognized and used in their symbolism.
The Celtic knot symbol, is also referred to as the mystic knot, or the endless knot. The more spiritual meaning of this symbol points towards beginnings and endings. When viewing these beautiful knots, we cannot see a beginning or the end, reminding us of the timeless nature of our spirit. A less spiritual representation also relates to the knots endless nature. Because of it's never ending path, the Celtic knot can represent an uninterrupted life cycle. Some may use this symbol as a charm of sorts – warding against sickness or setbacks that might interfere with an otherwise calm and stable life.
The Celtic Symbols and Meanings listed are a collection of the most widely know Celtic, Irish and Scottish symbols associated with these cultures. The Claddagh, Celtic Cross, Scottish Thistle, Celtic Knots, Tree of Life, Luckenbooth, St. Brigid's Cross, Scottish Thistle, Shamrock, Trinity, Celtic Knots and Designs. 
The Celtic knot symbol, is also referred to as the. The more spiritual meaning of this symbol points towards beginnings and endings. When viewing these beautiful knots, we cannot see a beginning or the end, reminding us of the timeless nature of our spirit. 
Celtic Love Knot-Is any Celtic Knot used to represent love and affection, often given in the form of Celtic Jewelry. The Celtic K nots are still Infinity Knots but used as a Symbol of Love. It doesn’t matter what Celtic Knot design you choose, it’s the emotion and intent behind the gift that makes it a Celtic Love Knot. 
Celtic Knots look likes strips which wind, weave and loop their way around each other. It can be just one strand which crosses back and forth on itself. Other times it is a number of strips. True Celtic Knots do not have loose ends. Some Celtic animal symbols (called zoomorphs) show a similar type of weaving to a knot. However, the difference is that these end with a loose end (often the tongue or tail!) and so are not knots in thre true sense. 
Celtic Knots: History and Symbolism A large range of knots and some stylized type or knots that are used as decoration by the ancient Celts are known as Celtic knots. Symbolism and history At its most basic, the Celtic knot symbolizes the sign of the Cross. If you look closely at knots with crosses, you will find that the knots hide the crosses between the knot’s ribbons. Trinity knot Of these, the triquetera knot or the Trinity knot is the most famous.
The Solomon's Knot is a very ancient Celtic Knot symbol that is believed to represent the union of man and the Divine. In fact, it is one of the oldest symbols and is seen even in the stone-age carvings. It is also one of the few symbols that can be found in nearly all the major civilizations. Symbolism and history At its most basic, the Celtic knot symbolizes the sign of the Cross. If you look closely at knots with crosses, you will find that the knots hide the crosses between the knot’s ribbons. Trinity knot Of these, the triquetera knot or the Trinity knot is the most famous.