The First Battle of Bull Run (also known as the First Manassas) was fought on July 21, 1861. It was the first major battle of the Civil War and resulted in a Confederate victory. The First Battle of Bull Run is known as the first true battle of the American Civil War. It occurred on July 21, 1861, just 30 miles outside of Washington, D.C., and resulted in nearly 5,000 casualties.
The first major battle of the Civil War, a crushing defeat for the. Federal North and a major victory for the Confederate South. Name: First Battle of Bull Run or the First Battle of Manassas. 
The Confederate victory in the First Battle of Bull Run thrilled the South and shocked the North. Many in the South thought the war was won. The North realized it had underestimated its opponent. Lincoln sent the 90-day militias home and called for a real army of 500,000 volunteers for three years. On July 21, 1861, Union forces commanded by General Irvin McDowell fought with Confederate forces headed by General Pierre Beauregard near a little creek called Bull Run north of Manassas. In the North, this battle came to be known as the First Battle of Bull Run.
A+E Networks. On July 21, 1861, Union and Confederate armies clashed near Manassas Junction, Virginia, in the first major land battle of the American Civil War. Prelude to the First Battle of Bull Run (Manassas). By July 1861, two months after Confederate troops opened fire on Fort Sumter to begin the Civil War, the northern press and public were eager for the Union Army to make an advance on Richmond ahead of the planned meeting of the Confederate Congress there on July 20.
First Battle of Bull Run. The unexperienced Union Army faces 30,000 Confederate troops in the first land battle of the Civil War. A Decisive Confederate victory signals that a long conflict lay ahead.
The First Battle of Bull Run was fought on July 21st 1861. Bull Run was the first major battle of the American Civil War and the area also saw the Second Battle of Bull Run in 1862. Union forces referred to the battle as Bull Run whereas the Confederacy called the battle the Battle of Manassas. The American Civil War broke out in April 1861 with the attack on Fort Sumter
Though the Civil War began when Confederate troops shelled Fort Sumter on April 12, 1861, the war didn’t begin in earnest until the Battle of Bull Run, fought in Virginia just miles from Washington DC, on July 21, 1861. Although victorious, Confederate forces were too disorganized to pursue. By July 22, the shattered Union army reached the safety of Washington. The Battle of Bull Run convinced the Lincoln administration and the North that the Civil War would be a long and costly affair.
Introduction. On July 21, 1861, Union and Confederate armies clashed near Manassas Junction, Virginia, in the first major land battle of the American Civil War. Prelude to the First Battle of Bull Run (Manassas). By July 1861, two months after Confederate troops opened fire on Fort Sumter to begin the Civil War, the northern press and public were eager for the Union Army to make an advance on Richmond ahead of the planned meeting of the Confederate Congress there on July 20.
Bull Run. The first battle of Bull Run was fought on July 21st 1861. This was the first major land battle of the Civil War. Both the Union and Confederate armies were very green and had virtually no combat experience. 
T he Battle of Bull Run, the first major clash in the Civil War, ended in a Confederate victory. It shattered illusions that either side would win quickly or easily. 