The agenda is developed by realscreen's Branded Entertainment Forum advisory board, featuring the brightest and best minds in the branded entertainment world and features a roster of world-class speakers. The program is hosted on Tuesday, October 23 at the Sentry Centers in the heart of Midtown Manhattan.
Success in branded entertainment is closely linked to the creative process and it is not a one-size-fits-all approach. Get close to what is happening and there is a lot of opportunity for the informed and engaged participant.
Using branded entertainment is, inherently, a storytelling technique, so it stands to reason that using it will cause you to evaluate these portions of your brand. The result is a reinforced brand story that feels more honed and focused on your core values, message and mission.
Branded Entertainment. PropStar provides access for our clients to a vast array of TV, Film and Music projects. As a pioneer of branded entertainment, we work with both clients and production companies to develop creative and carefully targeted integrations that are organic, relevant and seamlessly impactful.
Wikipedia defines branded entertainment as follows: “Also known as branded content or advertainment, [branded entertainment] is an entertainment-based vehicle that is funded by and complementary to a brand’s marketing strategy.”. Ultimately, the content gives the brand an opportunity to connect with its audience in a unique, engaging way.
Branded Content and Entertainment is a $25 billion dollar industry. In every reality television episode, on average 30% of the content features branding and product placement. What our production company has done is made that opportunity affordable for local small and midsize companies.
On the one hand, you have some marketers saying that the term branded entertainment is practically meaningless in an era when product placement is pretty much the norm, brands are becoming their own content companies, and most entertainment experiences come with a brand attached in one way or another.
Branded entertainment gets a bad rep when it’s more promotional plug than entertaining distraction. But when it’s done well, you get content that connects with consumers in the best way possible — creating goodwill for a company while selling goods at the same time.