Decorators caulk is used to fill gaps prior to decorating. It has several advantages over filler – it is easily smoothed without the need for sanding and it only needs an hour or so to dry before it can be over painted. The biggest advantage, however, is that it is flexible. 
Knowing how to use decorators caulk. Decorators caulk is a flexible sealer / filler. It is used to fill gaps around skirting boards, door architraves, window and door frames cove / cornice and ceiling / wall line and anywhere there maybe movement. You will need the following: 1  A tube of decorators caulk, with nozzle. 2  A caulking gun. 3  A knife to cut top off tube and nozzle. 4  A damp sponge or some water.
DECORATORS CAULK. DECORATORS CAULK is ideally suited for repairing gaps around interior walls, windows and door frames. It is a white emulsion-based multi-purpose sealing and filling compound. A high quality filler! Decorators Caulk from Soudal is a plasto-elastic one-component joint sealant based on acrylic dispersions that cures to form a durable, flexible seal, for both internal and external use. Can easily be painted over when dry. Size: 300ml
What is decorators caulk used for. Decorators caulk, or decorators filler as it’s sometimes called is used for filling gaps around door and window frames, along the top of skirting boards, gaps around the ceiling and coving line and is ideal for using if there is movement due to it’s flexible properties. Use decorators caulk for: 1  Around Door frames. Why does decorators caulk crack. Decorators caulk may crack if the gap you filled is too large, it may also sink or shrink slightly. If this is the case apply a second layer of caulk over the top of the first one.
Decorators caulk is a white emulsion-based sealant and filler typically used for repairing cracks and gaps around skirting boards, architrave, door frames and windows. 
How to use decorators caulk. One on the most useful tools you should have in your DIY toolbox is a caulking gun, you can use this gun for a variety of sealants from silicone sealant to decorators caulk. You will need the following: 1  A tube of decorators caulk, with nozzle. 2  A caulking gun. 3  A knife to cut top off tube and nozzle. 4  A damp sponge or some water.
What is decorators caulk / filler. Decorators caulk is a decorating gap filler, is made of an acrylic and is flexible once dried. It is ideal for areas that have movement but cannot be used like a powder filler and cannot be rubbed down, it can be painted over. Why does decorators caulk crack. Decorators caulk may crack if the gap you filled is too large, it may also sink or shrink slightly. If this is the case apply a second layer of caulk over the top of the first one.
How to use Decorators Caulk correctly to plug and fill gaps and produce a perfect surface ready for decorating. If you are looking for additional tips and information on painting and decorating then check out the following projects areas: Painting = http://www.diydoctor.org.uk/diy-how-t... 
What is decorators caulk used for. Decorators caulk, or decorators filler as it’s sometimes called is used for filling gaps around door and window frames, along the top of skirting boards, gaps around the ceiling and coving line and is ideal for using if there is movement due to it’s flexible properties. Use decorators caulk for: 1  Around Door frames. What is decorators caulk / filler. Decorators caulk is a decorating gap filler, is made of an acrylic and is flexible once dried. It is ideal for areas that have movement but cannot be used like a powder filler and cannot be rubbed down, it can be painted over.