Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness System. Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System.
If you have high blood pressure, it is recommended to maintain a diet high in potassium rich food. 1 Try to include as many potassium rich foods in your diet as as possible, some foods high in potassium are various fruits, vegetables, dairy foods, and fish. 
Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium. Potassium is crucial to heart function and plays a key role in skeletal and smooth muscle contraction, making it important for normal digestive and muscular function. The most important use of potassium is to treat the symptoms of hypokalemia (low potassium), which include weakness, lack of energy, muscle cramps, stomach disturbances, an irregular heartbeat, and an abnormal EKG (electrocardiogram, a test that measures heart function).
15 Foods That Are High In Potassium. Eating more of these potassium-rich foods can lower your risk of high blood pressure, stroke, and heart disease. 
A food is rich in a certain nutrient if it provides at least 20 percent of the recommended daily value per serving. Therefore, any food that contains at least 700 milligrams of potassium, 200 milligrams of calcium and 12 milligrams of vitamin C per serving counts as a rich source of these nutrients. Although they’re lower in calcium, beet greens are a better source of vitamin C and potassium – a cup of cooked greens supplies 60 percent, 37 percent and 16 percent of the daily values for vitamin C, potassium and calcium, respectively.
While it’s not hard to find potassium-rich foods that are high in vitamin C and calcium-rich foods that are high in potassium, very few foods are excellent sources of all three nutrients. Although they’re lower in calcium, beet greens are a better source of vitamin C and potassium – a cup of cooked greens supplies 60 percent, 37 percent and 16 percent of the daily values for vitamin C, potassium and calcium, respectively.
Magnesium, potassium and calcium are minerals that your body needs to maintain strong bones and normal muscle function. They are all electrolytes, or minerals that conduct electrical impulses in your body. These minerals help to maintain fluid balance, nerve transmissions and a healthy blood pressure. Magnesium also helps transport both calcium and potassium across cell membranes. Eating certain foods can help you meet your needs for all three of these essential minerals. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, certain nuts and seeds contain potassium, magnesium and calcium. Eating dried pumpkin seeds, almonds, cashews and pistachios boosts your intake of these minerals.
Along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium, potassium is an electrolyte, meaning that it helps to conduct electrical charges in the body. Like all the other electrolytes, our bodies have evolved elaborate systems to control blood levels in a narrow range. Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System.
Tomatoes, potatoes, carrots, radishes and garlic are good vegetables to eat more of. Leafy greens, such as beet greens, spinach, turnip greens and Swiss chard, provide magnesium, calcium and potassium as well. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, certain nuts and seeds contain potassium, magnesium and calcium. Eating dried pumpkin seeds, almonds, cashews and pistachios boosts your intake of these minerals.