Median income is the amount which divides the income distribution into two equal groups, half having income above that amount, and half having income below that amount. Mean income (average) is the amount obtained by dividing the total aggregate income of a group by the number of units in that group. Household income as an economic measure can be represented as a median, a mean, a distribution, and other ways. Household income can be studied across time, region, education level, race/ethnicity, and many other dimensions.
The median household income is commonly used to provide data about smaller geographic areas. The median is the middle number present in a set of data when the incomes of all household are arranged in an order of highest to lowest (if number of values in a set is even, the average between the two middle values are used).
Data that divides households into two parts with one-half earning more than the median income and the other half earning less. This refers to the combination of more than one income earner in one household. 
In 2013, Gallup published a list of countries with median household income. Using median, rather than mean income, results in a much more accurate picture of the average income of the middle class since the data will not be skewed by gains and abnormalities in the extreme ends.
Median household income is a dollar amount that represents the dividing line in a household income distribution list. For example, if the median household income is $50,000, exactly one-half of the household incomes listed fall above this amount and exactly one-half fall below.
The median divides the income distribution into two equal parts: one-half of the cases falling below the median income and one-half above the median. 1 The Affordable Housing Needs section includes tables for Household Income as a Percentage of Area Median for a number of types of households, including all households, renters, homeowners, elderly-headed households, and cost-burdened households (paying more than 30% of income for housing).
Median household income divides households in a country or region into two equal segments with the first half of households earning less than the median household income and the other half earning more. 
Meaning. Household income refers to the sum total of all income for members of the household over age 15, regardless of how many people live there or how they share the earnings. Median household income in a given year is the income for a household that's at the midpoint of all household incomes reported. It's not an average. Instead, it represents the middle income -- the point at which half of all households earn more, and half earn less. 
(March 2015). Median income is the amount that divides the income distribution into two equal groups, half having income above that amount, and half having income below that amount. Mean income (average) is the amount obtained by dividing the total aggregate income of a group by the number of units in that group. Using median, rather than mean income, results in a much more accurate picture of the average income of the middle class since the data will not be skewed by gains and abnormalities in the extreme ends.