1 Satellite images taken this year and 20 years ago show that the desert is in retreat thanks to a resurgence of trees. 1 —Andy Coghlan, New Scientist, 14-20 Oct. 2006. 2  The coastal plain is a desert in terms of precipitation—less than six inches fall annually—but what falls as snow stays to be later distributed by the wind. — 3 John Hildebrand, Harper's, November 2003.
noun. verb. Sunset over the desert. Sunset over the desert. The definition of a desert is a dry, hot, sandy, usually barren and uninhabited area. 1  An example of desert is the Mojave. 2  An example of desert is Death Valley. 
Full Definition of MESA. : an isolated relatively flat-topped natural elevation usually more extensive than a butte and less extensive than a plateau; also: a broad terrace with an abrupt slope on one side: bench. See mesa defined for English-language learners. See mesa defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Definitions of Important Geologial Features. About one-third of the earth's landmass is desert or semi-desert. These regions have unique geologic features not found in more humid environments. These features are most often caused by wind and water erosion in the stark desert environment
Definition of DESERT. 1. a: arid land with usually sparse vegetation; especially: such land having a very warm climate and receiving less than 25 centimeters (10 inches) of sporadic rainfall annually b: an area of water apparently devoid of life. 2. archaic: a wild uninhabited and uncultivated tract. 1 —Andy Coghlan, New Scientist, 14-20 Oct. 2006. 2  The coastal plain is a desert in terms of precipitation—less than six inches fall annually—but what falls as snow stays to be later distributed by the wind. — 3 John Hildebrand, Harper's, November 2003.
Enter E-Mail address: About one-third of the earth's landmass is desert or semi-desert. These regions have unique geologic features not found in more humid environments. These features are most often caused by wind and water erosion in the stark desert environment.
A mesa (Portuguese and Spanish for table) is the American English term for tableland, an elevated area of land with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs. Tucumcari Mountain is a mesa outside of Tucumcari, New Mexico. A mesa (Portuguese and Spanish for table) is the American English term for tableland, an elevated area of land with a flat top and sides that are usually steep cliffs. It takes its name from its characteristic table-top shape.