Best Answer: No. Ladybugs (or ladybirds, same thing) are not poisonous to people. They can have toxic effects on some animals though. They have a foul odor which deters some predators from eating them and their bright colors also help as a deterrent. They come in all different colors, even pink. I have just been bitten or stung by a black ladybird with 2 large and 2 smaller spots on its back, is this poisonous?? only reason i ask is that my hand and arm are going numb............
The Coccinellidae (/ˌkɒksɪˈnɛlɪdaɪ/) are a family of small beetles, ranging from 0.8 to 18 mm (0.0315 to 0.708 inches). They are commonly yellow, orange, or scarlet with small black spots on their wing covers, with black legs, heads and antennae. Non-entomologists are prone to misidentify a wide variety of beetle species in other families as ladybirds, i.e. coccinellids. Beetles are particularly prone to such misidentification if they are spotted in red, orange or yellow and black.
no not that I know of. They are a beneficial bug. In other words, ladybugs eat the bugs that are eating your plants. Lady bug, lady bug, fly away home, your house is on fire, and your children are home. 
'Threat': The harlequin ladybird. The harlequin ladybird-an aggressive, toxic invader that has colonised Britain in just four years-is threatening more than 1,000 native species, scientists say. Since it arrived in the South of England in 2005, the bug has spread at an incredible rate and is now found everywhere from Essex to Orkney. Now a new study claims that the fast-breeding ladybirds are putting hundreds of native British insects, parasites and fungi at risk. Although the harlequin is unlikely to drive native ladybirds to extinction, the invader may become so dominant it is the only ladybird people see.
Ladybird Toxin. Spots of toxin can appear from the Ladybird body, often as a yellow substance because their blood has no haemoglobin. This defence has been shown to be especially effective against ants. Some ladybirds also produce a type of insect repellent in this excretion and there is a evidence to show that locality can effect this toxic mix as some ladybirds excrete additional chemicals found in local foliage.
PLAGUES of poisonous and cannibalistic ladybirds are making their way into homes across the News Shopper area. The brightly-coloured harlequin ladybird will bite humans when hungry – leaving behind an itchy lump. 
lady bugs are poisonous, but can't bite. a beetle is the only other thing I can think of that resembles a lady bug, not sure if any of them are poisonous or not. But a lady bug and granddaddy longleg spider are very poisonous, but can't bite you. angelbnanny · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 2. Comment. 
Poisonous Ladybirds. The bright colours of Ladybirds would seem to be a good indication, to potential prey, that they are poisonous. This is called Aposematism and is justified in many animals and insects, but rather than a deadly poison the Ladybird uses, what is known as, ‘reflex bleeding’. Some ladybirds also produce a type of insect repellent in this excretion and there is a evidence to show that locality can effect this toxic mix as some ladybirds excrete additional chemicals found in local foliage.
Ladybirds (sometimes known as Ladybugs) are a family of small rounded, brightly coloured beetles. The scientific name for the family is Coccinellidae. In nature most predators associate bright colours (especially orange and black or yellow and black) with poison and other unpleasant properties, and in fact most coccinellids are poisonous to smaller predators such as lizards and small birds and other insects.
Harlequin munching an aphid. A few species feed on plants or mildew but most ladybirds eat aphids (greenfly) or scale insects. Both are garden pests and this is why so many people love to see ladybirds. The seven-spot ladybird can eat 5000 aphids during its year long lifespan.