Tips. 1  If the weather permits, mix chunky items with sheer ones. 2  For example, if you choose a chunky, knit cardigan, wear skinny jeans or leggings on bottom. 3  Alternately, if you choose boot-cut or loose pants, couple with a sheer, fitted cardigan. 4  Try to always incorporate an accent color into your outfit. 1 Alternately, if you choose boot-cut or loose pants, couple with a sheer, fitted cardigan. 2  Try to always incorporate an accent color into your outfit. 3  For example, if you're wearing jeans with a white shirt and a black cardigan, choose a colored or patterned belt or pair of shoes to compliment your neutral scheme.
A short sleeve cardigan is worn over a tank or tee unbuttoned, partially buttoned or with a wide belt. Pair a short sleeved cardigan with basic pants as outlined by an experienced stylist in this free video on fashion. Expert: Wendi Braswell. Contact: www.wendibraswell.com. 
Belt your cardigan with a thick leather belt if using a thick cardigan, and a thin one if your cardigan is sheer. Woven or shiny leather belts, or even imitation leather belts, work as well. 1 Alternately, if you choose boot-cut or loose pants, couple with a sheer, fitted cardigan. 2  Try to always incorporate an accent color into your outfit. 3  For example, if you're wearing jeans with a white shirt and a black cardigan, choose a colored or patterned belt or pair of shoes to compliment your neutral scheme.
Courtesy of Charlotte Russe and Overstock. Instead-wear the cardigan with a similar color. So if you're wearing a black cardigan opt for a top in dark colors or neutrals such as charcoal gray, chocolate brown and dark blues. If you want to make your waist look miles long-wear it untucked. 2. Cute and modern: Take a frilly cardigan and pair it with a over-the-knee floral fitted dress. The short hemline is unexpected and creates a chic juxtaposition with sassy and romantic. 3. Tuck it in: You can simply take a cotton cardigan and wear it as a full sweater-and tuck it in a pencil skirt.
A short sleeve cardigan is worn over a tank or tee unbuttoned, partially buttoned or with a wide belt. Pair a short sleeved cardigan with basic pants as outlined by an experienced stylist in this free video on fashion. Part of the Video Series: Fashion Tips. 1  How to Wear a Shoulder Wrap. You're going to wear the, the cardigan, the short sleeve as same as you do the long sleeve; it's just not as going to be as warmed. I'm going to show you, usually they're lightweight as well. This is a great short sleeve cardigan. It has some color, it has buttons.
Outfit #2- With a maxi dress. Proportionately, a cropped jacket is perfect to wear with a maxi dress, like this one from Modcloth. Seldom does a long jacket or cardigan work with a long dress or skirt. The crop shape balances the length of the dress, brings the eye upward and can add height to the body. In cases where you want to dress up a maxi, or add some structure to the look, this type of cropped jacket works. 
Choose a chunky knit cardigan with a fun pattern for wintertime, or a long, flowy, thin cardigan for summer. Always adapt your style to fit the weather on a particular day. 1 Alternately, if you choose boot-cut or loose pants, couple with a sheer, fitted cardigan. 2  Try to always incorporate an accent color into your outfit. 3  For example, if you're wearing jeans with a white shirt and a black cardigan, choose a colored or patterned belt or pair of shoes to compliment your neutral scheme.
I have never liked long cardigans for the same reasons I don’t wear long tunics — I have a long torso/short legs combo and I need to break up my torso line or risk looking very, very squat in a funhouse mirror way. 
I'm here today to show you how to wear that short sleeve cardigan. You're going to wear the, the cardigan, the short sleeve as same as you do the long sleeve; it's just not as going to be as warmed. I'm going to show you, usually they're lightweight as well. This is a great short sleeve cardigan. It has some color, it has buttons. I'm going to show you how to wear it