Is there no way to bring this down? For example the spoil can be dumped at your local civil recycling centre or used at the back of your garden to make it a bit higher. noseall said: ↑. 3m x 5m extension material costs in the region of 7k including spoil removal, plant, scaffold, skips etc. Click to expand... Click to expand... again fill a hatchback and take it own to the recycling centre. Click to expand... So the only material you have is concrete at 100 cubic metre. For example the spoil can be dumped at your local civil recycling centre or used at the back of your garden to make it a bit higher. No need for a skip-again fill a hatchback and take it own to the recycling centre
Summary: How much does an extension cost, average labour costs and average material costs. Many people consider the option of an extension as an alternative to moving home and often view it as a less expensive way of reinventing their living space. However, as with any project, there are lots of things to think about before embarking on a job of this size.
Size. Clearly, the size of the extension will have an effect on the overall cost. Generally the bigger the extension, the more expensive it will be as more materials, labour and plant are required to build it. 
If you have drains where you want your extension building then these need to be bridged. If you have a manhole cover where your extension is being built then these needs to be moved. Cost of this varies and again depending on whether or not it needs to be bridged or moved taking into account of access for digger. 
Planning your project. Ground floor extensions are typically more affordable than converting the loft or excavating basement space. Renovation costs for a same level extension are roughly between $60,000 and $200,000 depending on your situation, including material, labour and project management (ready to move in). A same level house extension in New Zealand will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check
Summary: Help and advice on methods to estimate costs involved when building an extension, garage, patio or any other type of building work in or around your home. Find out how to estimate the cost when building and get control of budget over runs. Price and Quote Checking Software. You will be able to work out the cost of an extension yourself by using the new DIY Doctor Pricing Software called Price Doctor. You can also use Price Doctor to check quotes you have already received.
Breakdown of Costs. First of all, remember that in addition to materials you will need to pay for: 1  Labour costs – 4 builders a day over 6 weeks will add up. 2  Assume around £100 a day each for 30 days work = £12,000 in labour. 3  Machinery and skip hire – diggers and other machinery may be needed. Now that it is completed I can tally up the total cost of the extension. I have not included the cost of architect designs, planning permission, building control and inspection (because these will vary and I do not have the figures at hand at the moment!).
Costs to consider. The most important factor with any project of this size usually boils down to cost. If you are able to tackle some of the work yourself then you will be able to reduce labour costs. If not, you should consider sourcing reputable companies with long track records and ask for detailed quotes. Many people consider the option of an extension as an alternative to moving home and often view it as a less expensive way of reinventing their living space. However, as with any project, there are lots of things to think about before embarking on a job of this size.