Copy files from Windows to Linux. You can use scp command to copy files from Linux to Windows. Copy files from Linux to Windows. You can also copy files from Windows to Linux, using pscp from the Windows computer you can push the files to the Linux, Max OS X or *BSD server. Specify protocol. You can specify the protocol that scp command for Windows will use at the time of connection. 
The syntax is as follows: In this example copy /home/vivek/letters folder and all its files to /usb/backup directory: Where, - 1 a: Preserve the specified attributes such as directory an file mode, ownership, timestamps, if possible additional attributes: context, links, xattr, all. - 2 v: Explain what is being done. - 3 r: Copy directories recursively. 
1 To copy multiple files within a directory, you can use wildcards (e.g., * or? ). 2  However, to use wildcards for copying multiple source files from a remote system, you need to place quotes ( ) around the path to the source files. 3  This is necessary because the Unix shell, not the scp command, expands unquoted wildcards. 
To copy a file from one Linux server to another, open a command line terminal and follow the example below: scp /local_directory/local_file username@hostname_or_IP_address:~/remote_directory. or to copy a file from the remote Linux server to the local Linux server: scp username@hostname_or_IP_address:/remote_directory/remote_file /local_directory. A few notes for clarification: Local Directory – This refers to a directory on the local server. Hostname – The DNS or hostname of the remote server. Remote Directory – The destination directory on the remote server for the file to be copied. Remote File – A file located on the remote server that will be copied to the local server. Notice that SCP uses the simple “SCP From To” syntax to copy files.
Overview. cp is the command which makes a copy of your files or directories. For instance, let's say you have a file named picture.jpg in your working directory, and you want to make a copy of it called picture-02.jpg. You would run the command: ...and the file will be copied. 
1. Copy a file or directory from source to destination. To copy a file, you need to pass source and destination to the copy command. The following example copies the file from project/readme.txt to projectbackup/readme-new.txt. If you want to copy a file from one folder to another with the same name, just the destination directory name is good enough as shown below. Copy multiple files or directories. You can copy more than one file from source to destination as shown below: If the source files has a common pattern, use wild-cards as shown below. In this example, all c extension files gets copied to /home/thegeekstuff/projectbackup/src/ directory.
WinSCP will translate Unix/Linux/Windows Text File Line-End Differences if the file name is a recognized text file, e.g. the name ends in .txt. WinSCP. WinSCP is the easiest way to copy files to and from the Course Linux Server, but it cannot be automated or scripted. For use in scripts, see the PuTTY suite of programs. If you log in to the Course Linux Server (using secure SSH), you can then use the insecure ftp or lftp commands on the Server to connect out from the Server to other remote machines (e.g. insecure FTP to your home computer or to ACADUNIX), if those other machines accept insecure FTP connections.
First for Service Type select SSH, and then enter the URL or IP address of the destination server in the Server field. Usually leave the Port field blank so SSH will use the default port, which is 22. In the Folder field enter the directory path where you want to copy files to the remote server. Hostname – The DNS or hostname of the remote server. Remote Directory – The destination directory on the remote server for the file to be copied. Remote File – A file located on the remote server that will be copied to the local server. Notice that SCP uses the simple “SCP From To” syntax to copy files.