Bile ducts carry bile from the liver and gallbladder through the pancreas. A huge amount of the bile is then released into the small intestine duodenum. The remaining bile is stored in the gallbladder. After food consumption the bile in the gallbladder is released to help with digestion and fat absorption. Without bile salts, most of the lipids in food would be excreted in feces, undigested. Since bile increases the absorption of fats, it is an important part of the absorption of the fat-soluble substances, such as the vitamins A, D, E, and K.
Bile salts are reabsorbed by the last portion of the small intestine, extracted by the liver, and resecreted into bile. This recirculation of bile salts is known as the enterohepatic circulation. All the bile salts in the body circulate about 10 to 12 times a day. The pancreatic duct joins the common bile duct just where it empties into the duodenum through the sphincter of Oddi (see Figure: Digestive System). Between meals, bile salts are stored in the gallbladder, and only a small amount of bile flows into the intestine.
Secretion of Bile and the Role of Bile Acids In Digestion. Bile is a complex fluid containing water, electrolytes and a battery of organic molecules including bile acids, cholesterol, phospholipids and bilirubin that flows through the biliary tract into the small intestine. There are two fundamentally important functions of bile in all species: 1 Bile contains bile acids, which are critical for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. 2  Many waste products, including bilirubin, are eliminated from the body by secretion into bile and elimination in feces.
Bile is a digestive juice that is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It has two important functions 1  : Assists with fat digestion and absorption in the gut. 2  Is a means for the body to excrete waste products from the blood. Instead it has bile salts (acids) which can 1  : Emulsify fats and break it down into small particles. 2  This is a detergent-like action of bile. 3  Helps the body absorb the breakdown products of fat
H&E stain. Bile or gall is a dark green to yellowish brown fluid, produced by the liver of most vertebrates, that aids the digestion of lipids in the small intestine. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). Without bile salts, most of the lipids in food would be excreted in feces, undigested. Since bile increases the absorption of fats, it is an important part of the absorption of the fat-soluble substances, such as the vitamins A, D, E, and K.
Bile Functions. Bile does not contain enzymes like other secretions from the gastrointestinal tract. Instead it has bile salts (acids) which can 1  : Emulsify fats and break it down into small particles. 2  This is a detergent-like action of bile. 3  Helps the body absorb the breakdown products of fat in the gut. 4  Bile salts bind with lipids to form micelles
The gallbladder is a small storage organ located inferior and posterior to the liver. Though small in size, the gallbladder plays an important role in our digestion of food. The gallbladder holds bile produced in the liver until it is needed for digesting fatty foods in the duodenum of the small intestine. The gallbladder acts as a storage vessel for bile produced by the liver. Bile is produced by hepatocytes cells in the liver and passes through the bile ducts to the cystic duct.
Secretion of Bile and the Role of Bile Acids In Digestion. Bile is a complex fluid containing water, electrolytes and a battery of organic molecules including bile acids, cholesterol, phospholipids and bilirubin that flows through the biliary tract into the small intestine. There are two fundamentally important functions of bile in all species: 
Storage. The gallbladder acts as a storage vessel for bile produced by the liver. Bile is produced by hepatocytes cells in the liver and passes through the bile ducts to the cystic duct. From the cystic duct, bile is pushed into the gallbladder by peristalsis (muscle contractions that occur in orderly waves)
It consists of bile salts, electrolytes, bile pigments, cholesterol, and other fats. The gallbladder is the storage sac that holds bile. Bile flows out of the liver through the right and left hepatic ducts (see Liver: Blood Supply of the Liver), which come together to form the common hepatic duct. This duct then joins with a duct coming from the gallbladder (see Gallbladder and Biliary Tract), called the cystic duct, to form the common bile duct. The pancreatic duct joins the common bile duct just where it empties into the duodenum through the sphincter of Oddi (see Figure: Digestive System). Between meals, bile salts are stored in the gallbladder, and only a small amount of bile flows into the intestine.