It is critical that Crossrail gets the internal design of stations right as the new stations have been designed to last for the next century. Around 200 million passengers will travel on Crossrail each year and the route will provide a 10% increase to rail capacity in the capital. The mock-up of the Crossrail platform section is life sized, measuring 20m in length, 10m in width, with a ceiling height of 5m above the platform-edge doors. It also contains a 4m long side-tunnel entrance providing entrance and exit
New Crossrail stations are being built through central London and Docklands at Paddington, Bond Street, Tottenham Court Road, Farringdon, Liverpool Street, Whitechapel, Canary Wharf, Custom House and Woolwich. An additional new station is being built at Abbey Wood. The mock-up of the Crossrail platform section is life sized, measuring 20m in length, 10m in width, with a ceiling height of 5m above the platform-edge doors. It also contains a 4m long side-tunnel entrance providing entrance and exit
Well St Pancras has 6 tube lines connecting across London, as well as cross London Thameslink trains. The Pic line goes direct to St Pancras from Heathrow (no change), but Crossrail passengers can also change at Farringdon to the tube AND 24tph Thameslink in 2018. for one stop. 4 - No connection to Euston for HS2...
The new service will start in 2019 and will result in an improved service 7 days a week of up to 4 trains an hour. Crossrail trains will stop at Iver and Taplow stations within South Bucks. Canary Wharf will be only 51 minutes from Taplow and Tottenham Court Road will be 27 minutes away from Iver. 
Crossrail station platforms will be 250m in length to accommodate 200m trains that will pass through each station, as well as enabling longer 240m trains to operate in the future as passenger demand increases. Dedicated pages are available for each of the central section Crossrail stations. The mock-up of the Crossrail platform section is life sized, measuring 20m in length, 10m in width, with a ceiling height of 5m above the platform-edge doors. It also contains a 4m long side-tunnel entrance providing entrance and exit
Crossrail is a 118-kilometre (73-mile) railway line under construction in London and its environs. It is expected to begin full operation in 2019 with a new east-west route across Greater London. It is the first of two routes that are the responsibility of Crossrail Ltd, the other being the proposed Crossrail 2. It is based on new mainline-gauge east-west tunnels from Paddington in the west to beyond Whitechapel in the east.
Crossrail will be operated by MTR Corporation (Crossrail) Ltd as a London Rail concession of Transport for London, in a similar manner to London Overground. Services between Liverpool Street and Shenfield transferred in May 2015 under the brand TfL Rail and will be extended to other parts of the route in 2018 and 2019. It is the first of two routes that are the responsibility of Crossrail Ltd, the other being the proposed Crossrail 2. It is based on new mainline-gauge east-west tunnels from Paddington in the west to beyond Whitechapel in the east.
Crossrail is being built by Crossrail Ltd, jointly owned by Transport for London and the Department for Transport until December 2008, when full ownership was transferred to TfL. Crossrail has a £15.9 billion funding package in place for the construction of the line. It is the first of two routes that are the responsibility of Crossrail Ltd, the other being the proposed Crossrail 2. It is based on new mainline-gauge east-west tunnels from Paddington in the west to beyond Whitechapel in the east.
1 10 n ew Crossrail stations are being built at Paddington, Bond Street, Tottenham Court Road, Farringdon, Liverpool Street, Whitechapel, Canary Wharf, Custom House, Woolwich and Abbey Wood. 2  The new stations will be on a scale not seen since the Jubilee Line Extension opened in 1999. Around 200 million passengers will travel on Crossrail each year and the route will provide a 10% increase to rail capacity in central London. It will enable more direct journeys and better interchanges.