Have you ever wondered where baby carrots come from? These bite-sized crunchers have experienced a pretty incredible journey by the time they wind up in our lunch boxes and snack trays. I recently got the carrot's-eye view of this whole process during Grimmway Farms' fall carrot harvest. Baby carrots are pulled from the field as long and skinny carrots, and get whittled down, step by step, into their snack-worthy final form.
Carrots, Sweet Versatility. Carrots, in the same family as Queen Ann’s lace, come in a variety of colors from white, yellow, and orange. You’ll even find a dark purple varietal that is also called “black carrots” — rich in anthocyanins (found in the plant’s pigment) that also happen to be a powerful antioxidant. FALSE. Baby carrots are cut from a specially raised carrot seed that produces thin, long, slender, and very sweet roots. Then they are cut into thirds and peeled (or rather buffed in a special tumbler), and bagged fresh within minutes of this process.
All varieties of modern domesticated carrots descend from the wild carrot (Daucus carota). This plant was native to Europe and Southwest Asia and was thought to have originated from Iran and Afghanistan. The wild carrot root is edible, but becomes woody with age and is quite bitter. The United States, Russia and Uzbekistan all produce more than a million tonnes. Other large producers of this vegetable are Poland, the United Kingdom and Ukraine. Today, carrots are grown on every continent on Earth, apart from Antarctica.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A baby carrot is an immature carrot, grown in a small size, in which it is sold. A baby-cut carrot is a small piece cut from a larger carrot; baby-cut carrots are often marketed as baby carrots, leading to potential confusion. In 2006, nearly three-quarters of the fresh baby-cut carrots produced in the United States came from Bakersfield, California. Bolthouse Farms and Grimmway Farms are the world's two largest growers, processors, and shippers of baby-cut carrots.
Brief Carrot History and TimelineThe cultivated carrot is one of the most important root vegetables grown in temperate regions of the world. It was derived from the wild carrot, which has whitish/ivory coloured roots. The most popular, orange rooted carrot, is derived from yellow rooted domestic varieties. Early writings in classical Greek and Roman times refer to edible white roots, but these may have also been parsnips, or both. There are white rooted carrots in existence today, often used as animal feed or a novelty crop. 2) Western or Carotene carrots: These have orange, red or white roots. Most likely these carrots derived from the first group by selection among hybrid progenies of yellow Eastern carrots, white carrots and wild subspecies grown in the Mediterranean. The first two originated by mutation.
Baby carrots start off life as actual, honest-to-goodness, full-sized carrots -- although they are usually picked while still young for best sweetness and texture. These carrots are planted closely together to encourage them to grow straight down into the earth and develop a uniform width. Baby carrots are pulled from the field as long and skinny carrots, and get whittled down, step by step, into their snack-worthy final form.
Carrots are an important source of vitamin A, fibre, antioxidants and other essential minerals. Today, there are many varieties of carrots and they are grown throughout much of the world. However, these modern carrots all share a common ancestor. Let’s find out where carrots come from. The United States, Russia and Uzbekistan all produce more than a million tonnes. Other large producers of this vegetable are Poland, the United Kingdom and Ukraine. Today, carrots are grown on every continent on Earth, apart from Antarctica.
Have you ever wondered where baby carrots come from? These bite-sized crunchers have experienced a pretty incredible journey by the time they wind up in our lunch boxes and snack trays. 
The carrot (Daucus carota subsp. sativus) is a root vegetable, usually orange in colour, though purple, red, white, and yellow varieties exist. It has a crisp texture when fresh. The most commonly eaten part of a carrot is a taproot, although the greens are sometimes eaten as well. It is a domesticated form of the wild carrot Daucus carota, native to Europe and southwestern Asia. A naturally occurring subspecies of the wild carrot, Daucus carota subsp. sativus, has been selectively bred over the centuries to reduce bitterness, increase sweetness and minimise the woody core. This has produced the familiar garden vegetable.