For info my son, Brennen, is six weeks old and sleeps 3-5 hours twice a night (from start to start of nursing) and then 1.5 hours for a total of nine or so hours of sleep a night. He wakes up regularly at 5/530 and for whatever reason won’t sleep more than the 1.5 hours after then. Newborn babies generally sleep a lot (according to Dr. Weissbluth newborns average between 11 – 18 hours of sleep per 24-hour period). However baby sleep is generally broken up into 7-8 “naps” varying in length from 15 minutes to 4-6 hours.
Thus it would not be unusual to have a newborn baby who is awake but generally unhappy from 8:00 pm – 11:00 pm. After this long window of being fussy and awake, most babies will then have their longest period of sleep (2-4 hour for a baby who is only a few weeks old, 3-6 hours for a baby who is 1-3 months old). Newborn babies generally sleep a lot (according to Dr. Weissbluth newborns average between 11 – 18 hours of sleep per 24-hour period). However baby sleep is generally broken up into 7-8 “naps” varying in length from 15 minutes to 4-6 hours.
David Geller. pediatrician. The average newborn sleeps about 16 hours a day, but some need much less sleep and some much more. Also, it's not uncommon for a newborn's sleep pattern to change from day to day; he may sleep substantially less than usual one day and then catch up by sleeping more the following day.
Most babies do not begin sleeping through the night (6 to 8 hours) without waking until at least 3 months of age, or until they weigh 12 to 13 pounds. However, this varies considerably and some babies do not sleep through the night until closer to 1 year. Stage 3: deep sleep, the baby is quiet and does not move. Stage 4: very deep sleep, the baby is quiet and does not move. A baby enters stage 1 at the beginning of the sleep cycle, then moves into stage 2, then 3, then 4, then back to 3, then 2, then to REM.
At night-time: All this should help your baby to start to understand that night-time is for sleeping (Sleep 2003) . Give him a chance to fall asleep on his own. When your baby's between six weeks and eight weeks old, you can teach him how to fall asleep on his own. Put him down when he's sleepy, but still awake.
Typical sleep patterns for newborns. Newborns sleep a lot – typically up to 16 to 17 hours a day. But most babies don't stay asleep for more than two to four hours at a time, day or night, during the first few weeks of life. When your baby will start to sleep longer. At 6 to 8 weeks of age, most babies begin to sleep for shorter periods during the day and longer periods at night, though most continue to wake up to feed during the night. They also have shorter periods of REM sleep, and longer periods of deep, non-REM sleep.
Newborn babies sleep a lot. Expect your baby to be asleep for up to 18 hours over the course of 24 hours in his first few weeks. But he won't sleep for more than three hours or four hours at a time, day or night (Davis et al 2004) . All this should help your baby to start to understand that night-time is for sleeping (Sleep 2003) . Give him a chance to fall asleep on his own. When your baby's between six weeks and eight weeks old, you can teach him how to fall asleep on his own. Put him down when he's sleepy, but still awake.
Some infants sleep for a long stretch at night as early as 6 weeks, but many babies don't reach that milestone until they're 5 or 6 months old and some continue to wake up at night into toddlerhood. You can help your baby get there sooner, if that's your goal, by teaching him good sleep habits from the start. When your baby will start to sleep longer. At 6 to 8 weeks of age, most babies begin to sleep for shorter periods during the day and longer periods at night, though most continue to wake up to feed during the night. They also have shorter periods of REM sleep, and longer periods of deep, non-REM sleep.
What to Expect. According to the National Sleep Foundation, your newborn's sleep schedule is closely tied to his need to be fed, changed or nurtured. Your newborn may sleep between 10.5 and 18 hours every day. Initially, his schedule is erratic. Your newborn may sleep between three to four hours at a stretch, according to Kids Health. By 9 months of age, between 70 and 80 percent of babies sleep through the night uninterrupted. Generally, older infants require nine to 12 hours of sleep each night and 30-minute to two-hour naps, one to four times each day. Naps become less frequent as your baby reaches the 1-year-old mark.