The nucleus provides a separate compartment for transcription. The original RNA transcript called pre mRNA is processed in various ways before leaving the nucleus as mRNA. Overview: the roles of transcription and translation in the flow of genetic information. In a cell inherited information flows from DNA to RNA to protein.
Keywords: mrna molecule, watson and crick, central dogma, polypeptide chain, transfer rna, messenger rna, cell nucleus, dna code, types of rna, amino acids, genetic information, cytoplasm, ribosome, nucleic acid, proteins, protein, translation.atson and Crick proposed that RNA must copy the DNA message in the nucleus and carry it out to the cytoplasm, where proteins are synthesized. Crick also predicted the existence of an adaptor molecule that reads the genetic code and selects the appropriate amino acids to add to a growing polypeptide chain.
The general transfers describe the normal flow of biological information: DNA can be copied to DNA (DNA replication), DNA information can be copied into mRNA (transcription), and proteins can be synthesized using the information in mRNA as a template (translation).owever, this simplification does not make it clear that the central dogma as stated by Crick does not preclude the reverse flow of information from RNA to DNA, only ruling out the flow from protein to RNA or DNA. Crick's use of the word dogma was unconventional, and has been controversial.
The flow of genetic information from DNA to protein in eukaryotic cells is called the central dogma of biology. (a) Explain the role of each of the following in protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells.
A central tenet of molecular biology states that the flow of genetic information in a cell is from DNA through RNA to proteins: “DNA makes RNA makes protein”. Proteins are the workhorses of the cell; they play leading roles in the cell as enzymes, as structural components, and in cell signaling, to name just a few.n a number of clinically important viruses RNA, rather than DNA, carries the viral genetic information. RNA also plays an important role in regulating cellular processes–from cell division, differentiation and growth to cell aging and death.
DNA carries the genetic information of a cell and consists of thousands of genes. Each gene serves as a recipe on how to build a protein molecule. Proteins perform important tasks for the cell functions or serve as building blocks. The flow of information from the genes determines the protein composition and thereby the functions of the cell.hen proteins are needed, the corresponding genes are transcribed into RNA (transcription). The RNA is first processed so that non-coding parts are removed (processing) and is then transported out of the nucleus (transport). Outside the nucleus, the proteins are built based upon the code in the RNA (translation).
Description: Nobel Laureate Dr. Rich Roberts describes the flow of information from DNA to RNA to protein. Transcript: The central dogma basically says that the information in an organism, that decides and organism, that describes everything that it can do is encoded in the DNA.
The DNA is situated in the nucleus, organized into chromosomes. Every cell must contain the genetic information and the DNA is therefore duplicated before a cell divides (replication). When proteins are needed, the corresponding genes are transcribed into RNA (transcription). The RNA is first processed so that non-coding parts are removed (processing) and is then transported out of the nucleus (transport). Outside the nucleus, the proteins are built based upon the code in the RNA (translation).
Watson and Crick proposed that RNA must copy the DNA message in the nucleus and carry it out to the cytoplasm, where proteins are synthesized. Crick also predicted the existence of an adaptor molecule that reads the genetic code and selects the appropriate amino acids to add to a growing polypeptide chain. This proposed flow of genetic information from DNA to RNA to protein became known as the Central Dogma.. As it turned out, several types of RNA are involved in the utilization of genetic information. In the nucleus, the DNA code is transcribed, or copied, into a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule. 
When a gene is expressed – or made into protein – it is first copied into messenger RNA (mRNA) by the process known as transcription and then translated into protein by a ribosome. But the fact that eukaryotic genes have introns in them means that we have to add another step to this flow of genetic information.