Legal Age   The age at which a child can be left at home alone is only legislated in two states, Maryland and Illinois. The legal check is whether or not the chil … d is safe and has the ability to take care of themselves. Home AloneI don't think it matters where you live but a chid has to be thirteen to stay alone and that's only four hours you have to be sixteen to stay alone a whole day or anything.   Legal Age
Massachusetts does not set a specific age at which a child can be left home alone. In Massachusetts, such issues are decided on a case-by-case basis. For information on abandonment and neglect, see MGL c.119 s. This definition is not dependent upon location (i.e., neglect can occur while the child is in an out-of-home or in-home setting.). Other states have provided some helpful information for parents on the topic, however. See, for example, Florida's When to Leave Your Kids Alone.
LEGAL AGE There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Georgia, Illiniois, Maryland and Oregon are a few of the states with specific ages specified in their laws. 12 years of age appears to be the most common recommendation. Most places believe that 12 or 13 is okay to leave home alone for a couple of hours during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines.
Ages 11 - 12 should not be alone longer than 3-4 hours. Ages 13 - 15 should not be alone longer than 8 hours. Ages 16 - 17 should not be left alone longer than 12 hours. All this being said, there actually is NO LAW as to the proper or legal age of a child being left alone in Indiana. Home AloneI don't think it matters where you live but a chid has to be thirteen to stay alone and that's only four hours you have to be sixteen to stay alone a whole day or anything.   Legal AgeThe age at which a child can be left at home alone is only legislated in two states, Maryland and Illinois.
As of yet, there is no set legal age for children to be left home alone in Pennsylvania. However, if you leave a child who is not mature enough home alone and something bad ha … ppens the court will take into consideration several things. Most places believe that 12 or 13 is okay to leave home alone for a couple of hours during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines.
Most authorities believe that a 12 or 13 y … ear old can be safely left alone for an hour or two during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Most places believe that 12 or 13 is okay to leave home alone for a couple of hours during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines.
Georgia law makes it pretty clear. Between the ages of 9 and 12, you can leave a child alone for up to two hours. Age 12 and up, no more than 12 hours at a time.. - NBC Augusta.com 12 years of age appears to be the most common recommendation. Home AloneI don't think it matters where you live but a chid has to be thirteen to stay alone and that's only four hours you have to be sixteen to stay alone a whole day or anything.   Legal AgeThe age at which a child can be left at home alone is only legislated in two states, Maryland and Illinois.
Some states do, though, and the age at which a child can be left home alone ranges from 8- to 14-years-old. Typically, the ages are set by the department of child protective services. Whether your child is ready to be home alone really depends upon your child, rather than his or her age. She was curious if there are laws about children being left home alone and how to tell when a child is ready to be alone. After doing a little online research, it seems many states, including Massachusetts, do not have specific laws about when children can be left alone.
Legal Age There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines. Georgia, Illiniois, Maryland and Oregon are a few of the states with specific ages mentioned in their laws. 12 years of age appears to be the most common recommendation. Most places believe that 12 or 13 is okay to leave home alone for a couple of hours during daylight hours.   Legal Age   There are very few states in the U.S. with legal minimum ages for children home alone, but many state agencies have published guidelines.