Vitamin K 1, also known as phylloquinone, phytomenadione, or phytonadione, is synthesized by plants, and is found in highest amounts in green leafy vegetables because it is directly involved in photosynthesis. Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2- methyl - 1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Vitamin K includes two natural vitamers: vitamin K1 and vitamin K2.
Vitamin K is unique among the vitamins in several respects. It is the only vitamin that can be produced within the human body, but not by the body (to be defined as a vitamin, a substance cannot be produced by human tissue). 7 Beneficial bacteria in the human intestine produce about 75% of the vitamin K the body absorbs each day, with the other 25% coming from dietary sources. 8 The amount of vitamin K absorbed each day from both sources usually is equal to the minimum amount required for normal bodily function. 9. 
1 Foods That Contain Vitamin K Some vitamin K is produced naturally in the body with the help of bacteria; however, it's our responsibility to include vitamin K in our diet, as well. 1 Learn more about this important vitamin on this page. 2 
1 A number of foods contain vitamin K, including green, leafy vegetables such as spinach, broccoli and lettuce, and beef, chicken and pork liver. 2  Green tea is a wonderful source of vitamin K. In this section, learn which foods are the best vitamin K sources. 1 Learn more about this important vitamin on this page. 2  Foods That Contain Vitamin K Some vitamin K is produced naturally in the body with the help of bacteria; however, it's our responsibility to include vitamin K in our diet, as well.
Sources of Vitamin K. Vitamin K is found in a number of foods, including leafy greens, cauliflower and, if you consider it a food, liver. However, the chief source of vitamin K is synthesis by bacteria in the large intestine, and in most cases, absence of dietary vitamin K is not at all deleterious.
Bacteria in the colon (large intestine) can also convert K 1 into vitamin K 2. In addition, bacteria typically lengthen the isoprenoid side chain of vitamin K 2 to produce a range of vitamin K 2 forms, most notably the MK-7 to MK-11 homologues of vitamin K 2. Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2- methyl - 1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Vitamin K includes two natural vitamers: vitamin K1 and vitamin K2.
Vitamin K1 is made by plants, whereas vitamin K2 is of bacterial origin and is the important form for people. All other forms of vitamin K are converted to vitamin K2 in the body. There are a number of closely related compounds of the vitamin K2 series. The substance came to be named vitamin K. The K was for Koagulation (Danish for coagulation). A pure form of the vitamin was isolated and analyzed in 1939. Several related compounds with vitamin K activity have also been synthesized.
Description. Vitamin K is found in several forms: Vitamin K-1 (Phylloquinone), the form occurring naturally in plants; Vitamin K-2 (Menaquinone), the form produced by intestinal bacteria and also derived from putrefied fish meal; synthetic vitamin K (Menadione). Vitamin K is integrally involved in the clotting mechanism of blood. Because vitamin K is common in many foods and is also synthesized by intestinal bacteria, deficiency in humans is unlikely to occur under normal conditions.
Humans are unable to synthesize vitamin K. It must either be acquired from dietary sources, or as metabolic by-products of intestinal bacteria. Still, the vitamin is so widely distributed in nature that nutritional deficiencies do not occur under normal circumstances. Because vitamin K is common in many foods and is also synthesized by intestinal bacteria, deficiency in humans is unlikely to occur under normal conditions.
All forms of K 2 other than MK-4 can only be produced by bacteria, which use these forms in anaerobic respiration. The MK-7 and other bacterially derived forms of vitamin K 2 exhibit vitamin K activity in animals, but MK-7's extra utility over MK-4, if any, is unclear and is a matter of investigation. Chemically, the vitamin K family comprises 2- methyl - 1,4-naphthoquinone (3-) derivatives. Vitamin K includes two natural vitamers: vitamin K1 and vitamin K2.