The US federal government released the 11th edition of the Report on Carcinogens (December, 2004). This Report, published every two years by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, identifies substances and circumstances that are known or are reasonably anticipated to cause cancer. Seventeen substances have been added to the growing list of cancer-causing agents, bringing the total to 246. For the first time ever, viruses are listed in the report: hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, and some human papillomaviruses that cause common sexually transmitted diseases
Cancer and Toxic Chemicals. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in the United States; it accounts for 1 in 4 deaths in the US and claims more than 1,500 lives a day. It has long been known that exposure to high levels of certain chemicals, such as those in some occupational settings, can cause cancer. There is now growing scientific evidence that exposure to lower levels of chemicals in the general environment is contributing to society’s cancer burden.
Workers may be exposed to a combination of cancer-causing chemicals (carcinogens), which increases their cancer risk. The risk of lung cancer in asbestos workers who also smoke cigarettes is at least 50 times higher than the risk in nonsmoking asbestos workers. 
Substances and exposures that can lead to cancer are called carcinogens. Some carcinogens do not affect DNA directly, but lead to cancer in other ways. For example, they may cause cells to divide at a faster than normal rate, which could increase the chances that DNA changes will occur. In many cases, carcinogens are first found to cause cancer in lab animals and are later found to cause cancer in people. Most studies of potential carcinogens expose the lab animals to doses that are much higher than common human exposures.
1 Lung cancer leads to the most number of deaths in both men and women, accounting for about 30% of all cancer deaths. 2  Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in women, after lung cancer; it is also the second most frequently diagnosed cancer in women, after skin cancers. It has long been known that exposure to high levels of certain chemicals, such as those in some occupational settings, can cause cancer. There is now growing scientific evidence that exposure to lower levels of chemicals in the general environment is contributing to society’s cancer burden.
When all these risks are considered together, the role of chemical exposures in causing cancer is small and, as of now, not very clear. Scientists know very little about how contact with most chemicals causes cancer. Substances known to cause cancer are called carcinogens. Pollution & Exposure to Chemicals Exposure to some chemicals and hazardous substances can increase the risk of cancer. A few well-known carcinogens are asbestos, nickel, cadmium, radon, vinyl chloride, benzidene, and benzene. These carcinogens may act alone or with another carcinogen to increase your risk.
Co-carcinogens are chemicals that do not necessarily cause cancer on their own, but promote the activity of other carcinogens in causing cancer. After the carcinogen enters the body, the body makes an attempt to eliminate it through a process called biotransformation. A carcinogen is any substance, radionuclide, or radiation that is an agent directly involved in causing cancer. This may be due to the ability to damage the genome or to the disruption of cellular metabolic processes.
Introduction. Many people worry that substances or exposures in their environment may cause cancer. As part of the American Cancer Society's role in informing and educating people about cancer and its possible causes, this document provides lists of substances and exposures that are known or suspected to cause cancer. In many cases, carcinogens are first found to cause cancer in lab animals and are later found to cause cancer in people. Most studies of potential carcinogens expose the lab animals to doses that are much higher than common human exposures.
1 Breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death in women, after lung cancer; it is also the second most frequently diagnosed cancer in women, after skin cancers. 2  In the US, breast cancer results in the highest mortality rates of any cancer in women between the ages of 20 and 59. It has long been known that exposure to high levels of certain chemicals, such as those in some occupational settings, can cause cancer. There is now growing scientific evidence that exposure to lower levels of chemicals in the general environment is contributing to society’s cancer burden.
Chemicals and Radiation Linked to Breast Cancer. In our daily lives we are exposed to toxic chemicals and radiation from a wide range of sources, and large and growing body of scientific evidence tells us that some of these exposures can increase breast cancer risk. Exposures to breast carcinogens—chemicals that directly cause breast cancer—are an obvious concern. 