• EX LIBRIS (noun). The noun EX LIBRIS has 1 sense: 1. a label identifying the owner of a book in which it is pasted. Familiarity information: EX LIBRIS used as a noun is very rare. 
Quote rbs: Yes, the term liberal has its root in the Latin root liber, which means free. Yes, the term liberal has its root in the Latin root liber, which means free. Tru that. By happenstance there are TWO Latin words spelt liber. Liber as in Liberalis refers to liberty or freedom, whereas liber as in librarium refers to book. Yeah, it does. In fact the term liberal, when used in a political context, in North America, is a misnomer. What are called liberals, in North America, are labeled as social democrats in Europe. What are referred to as libertarians, in North America, are referred to as liberals in Europe
A librarian is a person who works professionally in a library, providing access to information and sometimes social or technical programming. They may hold a degree from a library school such as a Master's degree in Library Science or Library and Information Studies. Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook, which is now online at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action. Hagemeyer was one of the first library activists to make strides for the Deaf community.
The word Librarium in Latin, means Book Case. Biodiversity is the full-scale of life and its processes, including genes, species and ecosystems forming lineages that integrate into a complex and regenerative spatial arrangement of types, forms, and interactions.
In addition, the behavior is provided for reuse by multiple independent programs. A program invokes the library-provided behavior via a mechanism of the language. For example, in a simple imperative language such as C, the behavior in a library is invoked by using C's normal function-call. Origin: [OE. librairie, F. librairie bookseller's shop, book trade, formerly, a library, fr. libraire bookseller, L. librarius, from liber book; cf. libraria bookseller's shop, librarium bookcase, It. libreria.
Its origin is in the Greek word for the papyrus (pa-Pie-rus) plant that the Egyptians used to make paper. … To invent the word Bible, scholars borrowed the plural Greek word biblia meaning scrolls, or little books and created the English word Bible. Biodiversity is the full-scale of life and its processes, including genes, species and ecosystems forming lineages that integrate into a complex and regenerative spatial arrangement of types, forms, and interactions.
Ecology (from Greek: οἶκος, house; -λογία, study of) is the scientific study of the relations that living organisms have with respect to each other and their na … tural environment. Biodiversity is the full-scale of life and its processes, including genes, species and ecosystems forming lineages that integrate into a complex and regenerative spatial arrangement of types, forms, and interactions.
Traditionally, a librarian is associated with collections of books, as demonstrated by the etymology of the word librarian (from the Latin liber, book). The role of a librarian is continually evolving to meet social and technological needs. Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook, which is now online at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action. Hagemeyer was one of the first library activists to make strides for the Deaf community.