Instrument Families. When we talk about musical instruments, we often talk about them as being part of a family. That's because, just like in human families, the instruments in a particular family are related to each other. They are often made of the same types of materials, usually look similar to one another, and produce sound in comparable ways. Some are larger and some are smaller, just as parents are bigger than children.
1. to which instrument family does the saxophone belong? A. strings B. woodwinds C. brass D. percussion 2. what trait do all brass instruments share? A. they all have valves B. they are made of brass C. players buzz their lips in the mouthpiece D. players often use them to play trills 3. 
Musical Instruments Answers. 3. Write the name of another instrument in the STRING FAMILY 4. Write the name of another instrument in the BRASS FAMILY .5. Write the name of another instrument in the PERCUSSION FAMILY 6. Write the name of another instrument in the WOODWIND FAMILY 7. 
Percussion Family. The Timpani is struck by mallets ... any instrument that requires a percussive touch is a member of this family ... surprisingly enough, and a little … known fact, the Piano is also a member of the Percussion Family ... a key must be struck to produce a tone!! 5 people found this useful
Brass Family Worksheet 6 Which of the following instruments do not belong to the family of brass instruments. Cross them out. French horn Trumpet CornetSaxophone Metallophone TubaEnglish horn Trombone EuphoniumBugle Guitar Sousaphone Oboe Hunting horn Cymbals Make your own list of brass instruments. 
Timpani is an Italian plural, the singular of which is timpano. However, in informal English speech a single instrument is rarely called a timpano: several are more typically referred to collectively as kettledrums, timpani, temple drums, or simply timps. They are also often incorrectly termed timpanis. They are played by striking the head with a specialized drum stick called a timpani stick or timpani mallet. Timpani evolved from military drums to become a staple of the classical orchestra by the last third of the 18th century.
Percussion instruments produce sound when they are struck or shaken. Their name, percussion, means the hitting of one body against another.. In the orchestra, the percussion section provides rhythm and tone color. Percussion instruments are made from many materials, but usually consist of either a solid material or a stretched membrane (thin material). Drums, the most well-known members of the percussion family, come in many shapes and sizes, but are all constructed with a membrane stretched across a frame or hollow container.
The percussion family is the largest in the orchestra. Percussion instruments include any instrument that makes a sound when it is hit, shaken, or scraped. That's because, just like in human families, the instruments in a particular family are related to each other. They are often made of the same types of materials, usually look similar to one another, and produce sound in comparable ways. Some are larger and some are smaller, just as parents are bigger than children.
Confidence votes 20.9K. Percussion Family. The Timpani is struck by mallets ... any instrument that requires a percussive touch is a member of this family ... surprisingly enough, and a little known fact, the Piano is also a member of the Percussion Family ... a key must be struck to produce a tone!!