2. Get out a large bowl. With your whisk in hand, mix together the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Once combined, move onto the butter. Be sure to use chilled butter, cutting it into small pieces to incorporate it into the flour mixture with a pastry blender or two knives. Finish with more whipped cream and a few more strawberries. If there is strawberry juice left over, drizzle a little over the top of the whipped cream or make a pattern on the edge of the plate. Place a bit of the strawberry mixture to the sides, too -- everyone likes extra! Serve immediately.
Method. 1 Cut the stems away from the strawberries and discard. Cut the strawberries in half, and then either quarters or thick slices. Put the cut strawberries into a large bowl and sprinkle with sugar. Start with 1/4 cup of sugar and then add up to another 1/4 cup depending on how sweet your strawberries are. Gently stir the strawberries until they are all coated with some sugar. Let sit at room temperature for about 20 minutes, until the berries soften and begin to release their juices. 2 After 20 minutes or so, mash about half of the berries in the bowl with a potato masher and stir to mix. 
1 Slice the strawberries and toss them with 1/2 cup of white sugar. 2  Set aside. 3  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 4  Grease and flour one 8 inch round cake pan. 5  In a medium bowl combine the flour, baking powder, 2 tablespoons white sugar and the salt. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Slice the strawberries and toss them with 1/2 cup of white sugar. 2  Set aside. 3  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 4  Grease and flour one 8 inch round cake pan.
How to: 1. Preheat your oven to 400°F. In a large bowl, stir the strawberries (with juices) and ¼ cup of sugar until well mixed. 2. In a medium bowl, mix flour, remaining 1/3 cup of sugar, the baking powder and salt. Cut in the butter, using a pastry blender or two forks, until the mixture looks like coarse crumbs. 3. Stir in milk, and then place the mixture onto a lightly floured surface and knead five to seven times, or until dough forms.
Best Answer: STRAWBERRIES FOR SHORTCAKE 2 pounds (900 grams) fresh strawberries, hulled and sliced 1/4 cup - 1/3 cup (50 - 65 grams) granulated white sugar (or to taste) Directions: Wash and slice the strawberries. Place about one third of the strawberries in a large bowl and crush them with a potato masher or fork. 
Ready In. 1  Slice the strawberries and toss them with 1/2 cup of white sugar. 2  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 3  In a medium bowl combine the flour, baking powder, 2 tablespoons white sugar and the salt. 4  Spread the batter into the prepared pan. 5  Slice partially cooled cake in half, making two layers. Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Slice the strawberries and toss them with 1/2 cup of white sugar. 2  Set aside. 3  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 4  Grease and flour one 8 inch round cake pan. 5  In a medium bowl combine the flour, baking powder, 2 tablespoons white sugar and the salt
Directions. Mix strawberries with 3 tablespoons sugar and refrigerate while juices develop, at least 30 minutes. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, and salt in a medium bowl. Add heavy cream and mix until just combined. Place mixture in an ungreased 8-inch square pan and bake until golden, 18 to 20 minutes. Remove shortcake from pan and place on a rack to cool slightly
Spoon some of the strawberries with their juice onto each shortcake bottom. Top with a generous dollop of whipped cream and then the shortcake top. Spoon more strawberries over the top and serve. Using a mixer, beat the heavy cream, sugar, vanilla, and lemon zest until soft peaks form, about 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, and salt in a medium bowl. Add heavy cream and mix until just combined. Place mixture in an ungreased 8-inch square pan and bake until golden, 18 to 20 minutes.