1 Place a vinegar-soaked brown bag on sprains to ease pain and aid recovery. 2  Use a sponge dampened with vinegar to clean shower curtains. 3  To remove salt and water stains from leather boots and shoes, rub with a solution of 1 tablespoon white vinegar and 1 cup water. 4  Wipe over the stained area only, and then polish. 1 To remove salt and water stains from leather boots and shoes, rub with a solution of 1 tablespoon white vinegar and 1 cup water. 2  Wipe over the stained area only, and then polish. 3  To loosen a stuck jar lid, hold the jar upside down and pour warm vinegar around the neck at the joint between the glass and the top.
Vinegar has a wide range of uses, such as removing odors from rooms, cleaning fixtures in your bathrooms and kitchen, removing stains and spills from carpets, cleaning windows, and much more. Continue reading this article to learn about the many ways in which you can use vinegar for household cleaning. 1. Remove and clean carpet spills. 1  Use a sponge or an absorbing cloth to soak up the liquid from the carpet spill. 2  Spray a mixture of 50 percent water and 50 percent vinegar mixture over the affected carpet area.
Vinegar is a liquid consisting mainly of acetic acid (CH 3 COOH) and water. The acetic acid is produced by the fermentation of ethanol by acetic acid bacteria. Vinegar is now mainly used as a cooking ingredient. Historically, as the most easily available mild acid, it had a great variety of industrial, medical and domestic uses, some of which (such as its use as a general household cleanser) are still promoted today. Wine vinegar is made from red or white wine, and is the most commonly used vinegar in Southern and Central Europe, Cyprus and Israel. As with wine, there is a considerable range in quality. Better-quality wine vinegars are matured in wood for up to two years, and exhibit a complex, mellow flavor.
1 Use 2 different spray bottles for your vinegar. 2  Some household cleaning chores will require you to use 100 percent undiluted white vinegar; whereas other chores will require you to dilute the vinegar with water. 1. Remove and clean carpet spills. 1  Use a sponge or an absorbing cloth to soak up the liquid from the carpet spill. 2  Spray a mixture of 50 percent water and 50 percent vinegar mixture over the affected carpet area.
Generally, you can use distilled white vinegar for household use and the cider vinegars, made from fermenting fruits such as apples, for consumption. However, if you prefer you can use apple cider vinegar around your home as well. 
White vinegar is often used as a household cleaning agent. Because it is acidic, it can dissolve mineral deposits from glass, coffee makers, and other smooth surfaces. For most uses, dilution with water is recommended for safety and to avoid damaging the surfaces being cleaned. Wine vinegar is made from red or white wine, and is the most commonly used vinegar in Southern and Central Europe, Cyprus and Israel. As with wine, there is a considerable range in quality. Better-quality wine vinegars are matured in wood for up to two years, and exhibit a complex, mellow flavor.
Here are some of our favorite household uses for vinegar. (In this article, we are referring to “distilled white vinegar” for household use.). 1  Bring a solution of one-cup vinegar and four tablespoons baking soda to a boil in teapots and coffeepots to rid them of mineral deposits. 2  A solution of vinegar and baking soda will easily remove cooking oil from your stovetop. 1 To remove salt and water stains from leather boots and shoes, rub with a solution of 1 tablespoon white vinegar and 1 cup water. 2  Wipe over the stained area only, and then polish. 3  To loosen a stuck jar lid, hold the jar upside down and pour warm vinegar around the neck at the joint between the glass and the top.
Use vinegar as an all-purpose surface cleaner in the kitchen. Vinegar can effectively clean kitchen counter tops, stove tops, and the tops of refrigerators and other appliances. 1  Spray undiluted vinegar over the surface of appliances and counters in your kitchen, then wipe away using paper towels or a soft, clean rag. 1. Remove and clean carpet spills. 1  Use a sponge or an absorbing cloth to soak up the liquid from the carpet spill. 2  Spray a mixture of 50 percent water and 50 percent vinegar mixture over the affected carpet area.
1 Buy 100 percent pure white vinegar. 2  Distilled white vinegar is the strongest form of vinegar you can use to effectively clean your home. 3  To remove sticker residue from furniture and other items, spray the affected area with vinegar, then remove the sticker residue after 10 minutes have passed. 1. Remove and clean carpet spills. 1  Use a sponge or an absorbing cloth to soak up the liquid from the carpet spill. 2  Spray a mixture of 50 percent water and 50 percent vinegar mixture over the affected carpet area.