Lake Pukaki is the largest of three roughly parallel alpine lakes running north-south along the northern edge of the Mackenzie Basin on New Zealand's South Island. The lake is now part of the Waitaki hydroelectric scheme. The lake's original outflow was at its southern end, into the Pukaki River. The outflow has been dammed, and canals carry water from Lake Pukaki and Lake Ohau through the Ohau A power station to Lake Ruataniwha.
Some rights reserved. Lake Pukaki in Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park-location of Lake-town in The Hobbit Trilogy-in autumn is a spectacular vision of golden trees contrasted against opaque turquoise waters and the snow-covered Southern Alps. Credit: Tourism New Zealand / Rob Suisted. Picturesque Lake Tekapo-a 30-minute drive north of Lake Pukaki-is the centre of star gazing tourism in New Zealand. Mt John Observatory above Tekapo is considered one of the most accessible observatories in the world. It is home to six telescopes, including one which can observe 50 million stars each clear night.
Wedding Ceremony on the shores of Lake Pukaki.is truly one of New Zealand’s most breathtaking lakes. This is one of the ultimate wedding locations in this region. Lake Pukaki is glacial feed and that is why the colour is so distinctive of blue/turquoise. In total the lake spans over 518 metres above sea level. Situated running north south along the northern edge of the Mackenzie Basin. This remarkable venue gives you views of New Zealand’s largest mountain Aoraki Mt Cook, as well as other snow-covered peaks. Lake Pukaki is on route if you are traveling from Christchurch to Mt Cook, or Christchurch to Queenstown.
At the head of Lake Pukaki, New Zealand's highest peak Aoraki Mt Cook dominates the turquoise ribbon of lake that fills an elongated ancient glacier-carved valley. Picturesque Lake Tekapo-a 30-minute drive north of Lake Pukaki-is the centre of star gazing tourism in New Zealand. Mt John Observatory above Tekapo is considered one of the most accessible observatories in the world. It is home to six telescopes, including one which can observe 50 million stars each clear night.
The glacial feed to the lakes gives them a distinctive blue colour, created by glacial flour, the extremely finely ground rock particles from the glaciers. Lake Pukaki covers an area of 178.7 km², and the surface elevation of the lake normally ranges from 518.2 to 532 metres above sea level. The lake is now part of the Waitaki hydroelectric scheme. The lake's original outflow was at its southern end, into the Pukaki River. The outflow has been dammed, and canals carry water from Lake Pukaki and Lake Ohau through the Ohau A power station to Lake Ruataniwha.
Lake Pukaki will always be the turquoise foreground for dramatic images of Aoraki-Mt Cook. And like the mighty mountain it's big. At 170 square kilometres Lake Pukaki offers a sense of space and solitude that other lakes do not. Fed by the Tasman River the lake, like Tekapo and Ohau, was created by receding glaciers and the moraine left behind.
The intensity of the blue colour you can see in Lake Pukaki comes from an extremely fine silt of pulverised rock suspended in the water, known as glacial flour. 
Some rights reserved. Lake Pukaki in Aoraki/Mount Cook National Park-location of Lake-town in The Hobbit Trilogy-in autumn is a spectacular vision of golden trees contrasted against opaque turquoise waters and the snow-covered Southern Alps. Credit: Tourism New Zealand / Rob Suisted. Lake Pukaki, a shimmering blue jewel set against a backdrop of Aoraki/Mt Cook, made this New Zealand landscape the perfect Lake-town. Content can be shared and edited. Please credit Tourism New Zealand. 1  Print. 2  Email. 3  Save as .txt.
Lake Pukaki (bottom centre) and its neighbouring lakes are separated from the West Coast by the Southern Alps. The lake is now part of the Waitaki hydroelectric scheme. The lake's original outflow was at its southern end, into the Pukaki River. The outflow has been dammed, and canals carry water from Lake Pukaki and Lake Ohau through the Ohau A power station to Lake Ruataniwha.