The Lifetime Learning credit is a tax credit of up to $2,000. If your adult child or relative qualifies as a dependent and you pay qualifying education expenses for the dependent to attend college, you might qualify for one of the education credits. The rules to claim a dependent who is disabled differ from a typical adult dependent. You can claim an adult who is disabled as long as the person lives in your home for at least half the year. There are no age requirements for claiming tax credits for a dependent who is disabled.
Who can claim a dependent's expenses. If an exemption is allowed as a deduction for any person who claims the student as a dependent, all qualified education expenses of the student are treated as having been paid by that person. Therefore, only that person can claim an education credit for the student. You can claim an education credit for qualified education expenses paid with the proceeds of a loan. Use the expenses to figure the credit for the year in which the expenses are paid, not the year in which the loan is repaid.
Adoption credit. You can claim a tax credit for up to $13,170 of adoption expenses paid in 2010. If you adopt a child with special needs, you get the full credit even if the adoption cost less. The credit starts to phase out once your adjusted gross income exceeds $182,520. Payments made to care for a child under the age of 13, or other qualifying dependent, while you work can earn you a tax credit from $600 (for one dependent) up to $2100 (for two or more dependents). If you do not work but go to school full-time, you may assume an annual earned income of $3,000 to apply this credit.
Lifetime Learning Credit. The lifetime learning credit can take up to $2,000 off your tax bill if you're paying education costs for an adult student. It's not limited to four years, or four years' worth of credits, so if your student goes on to graduate school, you can still claim it if he doesn't pass the age lim
If a student isn’t claimed as a dependent, though, it’s possible for him or her to claim an education tax credit, or take the deduction. One thing to keep in mind, each student cannot claim more than one tax break. This is an important distinction because it’s an either/or situation in terms of who gets the tax break. If the parent claims the education tax deduction or credit, then the child (in this case, the dependent) can’t claim it. If the child claims it for himself or herself, then the parent can’t claim it
You’re correct that the dependent can’t claim a personal exemption if eligible to be claimed by their parents. However, if the parents choose not to claim the child as a dependent the child can take the education credits. In that case neither the parents or the child claim a dependency exemption for the child. This is an important distinction because it’s an either/or situation in terms of who gets the tax break. If the parent claims the education tax deduction or credit, then the child (in this case, the dependent) can’t claim it. If the child claims it for himself or herself, then the parent can’t claim it
Paid with borrowed funds. You can claim an American opportunity credit for qualified education expenses paid with the proceeds of a loan. Use the expenses to figure the American opportunity credit for the year in which the expenses are paid, not the year in which the loan is repaid. If the requirements above are not met for any student, you cannot claim the American opportunity credit for that student. You may be able to claim the lifetime learning credit for part or all of that student's qualified education expenses instead.
You can claim the Lifetime Learning credit for qualified education expenses you pay for a dependent child as well as for yourself or your spouse. However, the maximum amount of covered expenses is $10,000 no matter how many students you have. This translates into a $2,000 maximum credit ($10,000 X 20%). If you have several students in your family, you can claim multiple credits based on the expenses of each student. For example, if you have three kids in college, you can claim up to $7,500 ($2,500 x 3) in American Opportunity credits.