ARTICLE INDEX. Plankton: doing more than just drifting through. Plankton is found all over the planet – from the polar-regions to the tropics, freshwater lakes to the sea. Plankton are mostly small organisms, drifting along with the currents and unable to swim against the waves. 
A lake ecosystem includes biotic (living) plants, animals and micro-organisms, as well as abiotic (nonliving) physical and chemical interactions. Lentic systems are diverse, ranging from a small, temporary rainwater pool a few inches deep to Lake Baikal, which has a maximum depth of 1740 m. The general distinction between pools/ponds and lakes is vague, but Brown states that ponds and pools have their entire bottom surfaces exposed to light, while lakes do not.
Pelagic organisms are grouped as plankton or nekton. Nektonic critters are capable of swimming against a current and include most species of sharks, rays, fish, seals, sea lions, and whales. The bacteria use up a lot of dissolved oxygen in the seawater so that areas of red tide may have little, or no, oxygen. If oxygen levels are low this can affect organisms in the water, such as fish. If the marine organism needs dissolved oxygen and cannot leave the red tide then it may suffocate and die.
Mosquito Bay in Vieques is a perfect example of such a bay. The mouth of the bay is situated in such a way that the prevailing winds and currents easily allow ocean water to enter the bay. It is also quite shallow at the entrance so that only the surface waters, which are abundant in plankton, flow into the bay. This phenomenon of bioluminescence is so intense, so awe-inspiringly beautiful and so dependable that Mosquito Bay in Vieques, also called the Bioluminescent Bay or the Bio Bay, could easily be called the eighth wonder of the world. The organisms responsible for bioluminescence are called dinoflagellates.
Plankton can be divided into two large groups: planktonic plants and planktonic animals. The plant plankton or phytoplankton are the producers of ocean and freshwater food chains. They are autotrophs, making their own food, using the process of photosynthesis. The animal plankton or zooplankton eat food for energy. These heterotrophs feed on the microscopic world of the sea and transfer energy up the food pyramid to fishes, marine mammals, and humans. Unit Six SSWIMS/Plankton Project Oceanography Fall 2001 107 Zooplankton Planktonic animals are called zooplankton. Unlike phytoplankton, which must have sunlight to live, zooplankton can live at all depths of the ocean. Zooplankton are either holoplankton (permanent plankton) or meroplankton (temporary plankton). Holoplankton live up in the water all of their live
Planktonic organisms are unable to swim against a current. Being planktonic is a lifestyle and includes members from a wide variety of classifications (plants and animals, small and large). It includes the drifters who cannot swim at all as well as those that can swim feebly. The bacteria use up a lot of dissolved oxygen in the seawater so that areas of red tide may have little, or no, oxygen. If oxygen levels are low this can affect organisms in the water, such as fish. If the marine organism needs dissolved oxygen and cannot leave the red tide then it may suffocate and die.
Foraminifera typically produce a test, or shell, which can have either one or multiple chambers, some becoming quite elaborate in structure. These shells are commonly made of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) or agglutinated sediment particles. Over 10,000 species are recognized, both living (8,708) and fossil (1,837). The taxonomic position of Foraminifera has varied since their recognition as protozoa (protists) by Schultze in 1854, there referred to as an order, Foraminiferida. Loeblich and Tappan (1992) re-ranked Foraminifera as a class as it is now commonly regarded.
The sea is home to billions of plants and animals. Many live only near the sunlit surface. Here you'll find everything from microscopic plankton to the giant blue whale. Oceanographers classify marine organisms by separating them into two primary groups: plants and animals. These are usually single-celled, minute floating plants that drift throughout the surface waters of the ocean. A bucket of sea water might hold a million microscopic diatoms which are relatives of seaweed encased in glassy boxes. To grow, phytoplankton need nutrients from the sea water and lots of sunlight.
Phytoplankton drifting about below the surface of the water still carry out photosynthesis. This process can occur as long as enough light is available for the chlorophyll and other pigments to absorb. In the ocean, light can reach as far as 200m below the surface 25. Chlorophyll is not the only photosynthetic pigment found in algae and phytoplankton. There are also carotenoids,and phycobilins (biliproteins). These accessory pigments are responsible for other organism colors, such as yellow, red, blue and brown.