Donate. Walford lies in the rural countryside about 4 miles from the old market town of Ross-on-Wye. The village, sitting at the confluence of the Walford and Stoneybridge streams is an ancient community-it was mentioned in the Doomsday Book of 1086. It is ideal for anyone wishing to take in the picturesque scenery of the Wye Valley, get away from it all and relax. Ross on Wye, Herefordshire, England (1.1 miles, 1.8 km, direction N). Located 50 km from Bristol, The Old Hall offers accommodation in Ross on Wye.
Walford, with an overall average price of £409,083, was similar in terms of sold prices to nearby Goodrich (£422,975), but was more expensive than Ross-On-Wye (£195,398) and Lydbrook (£169,678). Overall sold prices in Walford over the last year were 15% up on the previous year and 9% down on the 2011 level of £450,000. Show Map Key Hide Map Key. You must have JavaScript enabled to view properties on a map.
Projects. Welcome to the Walford Parish Council web site. Lying 2 miles south of the Herefordshire market town of Ross-on-Wye, the parish of Walford is one of the largest in south Herefordshire; its name is thought to derive from the name 'Wales-ford' where the old turnpike road to Wales crossed the River Wye. 
Guide price £650,000 Walford, Ross-On-Wye HR9 Detached house for sale 5 2 3 87,120 sq. ft*. A fine period 5 bedroom house in A commanding position with stunning views over the wye valley to distant hills Thought to date from the early 19th Century it is constructed of local sandstone ... see full details and 9 photos. A most attractive, listed grade II stone built detached house enjoying an unspoilt south westerly aspect, and having the benefit of an additional two bedroom detached cottage within the grounds. ...
Walford, a village and a parish in Herefordshire, on the river Wye, 3 miles SSW of Ross, with a station at Kerne Bridge on the Monmouth and Ross branch of the G.W.R., tind a post and money order office under Ross; telegraph office, Goodrich. The living is a vicarage in the diocese of Hereford; net value, £182 with residence. Patron, the Bishop of Worcester. The church is Norman and Early English, and was restored in 1887. There are Baptist, Wesleyan, and Plymouth Brethren chapels, and a chapel of ease is at Howle Hill.
The parish comprises 4340 acres; population of the civil parish, 1116; of the ecclesiastical, 730. There is a parish council consisting of thirteen members. Walford Court, now a farmhouse, was the seat of the Kyrle family, one of whom was a Parliamentary leader in the Civil War, and entertained Cromwell. The living is a vicarage in the diocese of Hereford; net value, £182 with residence. Patron, the Bishop of Worcester. The church is Norman and Early English, and was restored in 1887. There are Baptist, Wesleyan, and Plymouth Brethren chapels, and a chapel of ease is at Howle Hill.
Review Walford Court's Shropshire Bed and breakfast on TripAdvisor. We have enjoyed 5 years of award winning success in the Flavours of Herefordshire Awards, including Best Breakfast, an Outstanding Achievement Award and a Gold Award for our evening meals. FOR 500 YEARS WALFORD COURT has been sitting nestled amongst 20 acres of stream bordered Herefordshire countryside, and apart from the dismantling of the old castle on top of the motte, whose ancient stones are incorporated in the Courthouse, old barn and outbuildings, not too much has changed.
England Herefordshire Walford. © 2001-2015 Pictures of England.com-All rights reserved. Terms & Conditions. PestControl-Supermarket.com-Pest Control Price Comparison for England, Wales, Scotland, Ireland, Northern Ireland and the Channel Islands. Ross on Wye, Herefordshire, England (1.1 miles, 1.8 km, direction N). Located 50 km from Bristol, The Old Hall offers accommodation in Ross on Wye.
detailed map of Walford and near places. Welcome to the Walford google satellite map! This place is situated in County of Herefordshire, West Midlands, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 51° 53' 0 North, 2° 36' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Walford. See Walford photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Walford in United Kingdom. Walford hotels map. The location of each Walford hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Walford hotel map is available where all hotels in Walford are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.