Best practices in small-business portfolio management Page 4 | Best practices in small-business portfolio management It is estimated that the average time it takes just to perform an overall credit analysis is four hours. They are both great metaphors for industry best practices for small-business portfolio management. Before discussing these metaphors specifically, let us examine portfolio management for small-business loan portfolios — and why it is worthy of discussion.
Thinkstock/Comstock/Getty Images. A business portfolio is a company’s set of investments, holdings, products, businesses and brands. A product portfolio is the product’s mix of market segments. Marketing managers attempt to make a product appeal to specific groups of people, called segments. 
Portfolio analysis can be performed by an outside firm or by company management. There are various tools used for a portfolio analysis with some that look at market share and others that evaluate a company’s product line against the competition. A corporate portfolio analysis may determine a company's future direction. Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. A corporate portfolio analysis takes a close look at a company’s services and products. Each segment of a company’s product line is evaluated including sales, market share, cost of production and potential market strength. The analysis categorizes the company’s products and looks a
The growth–share matrix (aka the product portfolio, BCG-matrix, Boston matrix, Boston Consulting Group analysis, portfolio diagram) is a chart that was created by Bruce D. Henderson for the Boston Consulting Group in 1970 to help corporations to analyze their business units, that is, their product lines. This helps the company allocate resources and is used as an analytical tool in brand marketing, product management, strategic management, and portfolio analysis. Analysis of market performance by firms using its principles has recently called its usefulness into question.
Best practices in small-business portfolio management An Experian white paper | Page 3 While the actual outstandings between notes of $100,000 or less are about equal to those between $250,000 and $1 million, there is a vast difference between the number of notes in those two categories. They are both great metaphors for industry best practices for small-business portfolio management. Before discussing these metaphors specifically, let us examine portfolio management for small-business loan portfolios — and why it is worthy of discussion.
Portfolio Analysis. A company’s portfolio is the sum of its business, assets and products. A perfect portfolio analysis is shaped to meet and suit the company’s potency and also enable it to exploit the best opportunities available to it. Analysis of a portfolio involves deciding on the relative importance of available business and investment opportunities. This analysis also involves formulating strategies that would add to the portfolio in terms of new business opportunities and products.
What Portfolio Analysis Is. Portfolio analysis is a systematic way to analyze the products and services that make up an association's business portfolio. All associations (except the simplest and the smallest) are involved in more than one business. Portfolio analysis helps you decide which of these products and services should be emphasized and which should be phased out, based on objective criteria. Portfolio analysis consists of subjecting each of the association's products and services through a progression of finer screens.
Best practices in small-business portfolio management Page 2 | Best practices in small-business portfolio management Here is the distribution between dollars and units in a typical commercial portfolio. They are both great metaphors for industry best practices for small-business portfolio management. Before discussing these metaphors specifically, let us examine portfolio management for small-business loan portfolios — and why it is worthy of discussion.
The best portfolio analysis takes into account the locations of the different Strategic Business Units (SBU) present in the portfolio. These SBU’s have business objectives and missions independent of the other business objectives of the company. This analysis also involves formulating strategies that would add to the portfolio in terms of new business opportunities and products.