Best Answer: The Civil Rights Movement is sometimes defined as a struggle against racial segregation that began in 1955 when Rosa Parks, the seamstress with tired feet, refused to give up her seat to a white man on a bus in Alabama. 
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The civil rights movement was a freedom struggle by African Americans in the 1950s and 1960s to gain equality. The goals of the movement were freedom from discrimination; equal opportunity in employment, education, and housing; the right to vote; and equal access to public facilities. The nonviolence of the civil rights movement and the power of the federal government over the states were tested as African Americans sought to make use of the rights that had been confirmed by the Supreme Court.
The Civil Rights Movement occurred in the 1950s. The three goals of  the movement were to end racial segregation, to give equal  opportunities in employment and equal opport … unities in education. 4 people found this useful
The goals of the civil rights movement were meaningful civil rights laws, a massive federal works program, full and fair employment, decent housing, the right to vote, and ade … quate integrated education. The three goals of  the movement were to end racial segregation, to give equal  opportunities in employment and equal opport … unities in
The Civil Rights Movement occurred in the 1950s. The three goals of  the movement were to end racial segregation, to give equal  opportunities in employment and equal opport … unities in education. The civil rights movement was giving African Americans the same rights as whites in the United States. There was a very big segregation problem going all the way back to 1775 … in the American Revolution. To learn more, look for things on Martin Luther King Jr., Fredrick Douglas, and other civil rights leaders.
The right to vote was passed and placed in the bill of rights (15th amendment) in 1870 part of the reconstruction era. So during 1960's during the civil rights movement the right to vote was not one of their goals because it was already in effect for African Americans to vote. The civil rights movement was giving African Americans the same rights as whites in the United States. There was a very big segregation problem going all the way back to 1775 … in the American Revolution. To learn more, look for things on Martin Luther King Jr., Fredrick Douglas, and other civil rights leaders.
Confidence votes 49. The goals of the civil rights movement were meaningful civil rights laws, a massive federal works program, full and fair employment, decent housing, the right to vote, and adequate integrated education. The civil rights movement was giving African Americans the same rights as whites in the United States. There was a very big segregation problem going all the way back to 1775 … in the American Revolution. To learn more, look for things on Martin Luther King Jr., Fredrick Douglas, and other civil rights leaders.
The civil rights movement was a mass popular movement to secure for African Americans equal access to and opportunities for the basic privileges and rights of U.S. citizenship. The civil rights movement centered on the American South. That was where the African American population was concentrated and where racial inequality in education, economic opportunity, and the political and legal processes was most blatant.
In the late 1950’s – early 1960’s, the Civil Rights Movement was a peaceful, relatively low-key fight for equal rights. The movement had moderate goals, and generally did not aim to overcome prejudice in a swift and aggressive manner. At the start of the movement, many African Americans were outraged with the clear ineffectiveness of President Eisenhower’s Civil Rights Act of 1957. The campaign had intensified in this decade, characterized by greater demands and more aggressive efforts. Although the support of the Civil Rights movement was relatively constant, the goals of the movement became more high-reaching and specific, and its strategies became less compromising. African Americans’ struggle for equality during the 1960’s was a relentless movement that used change for progress