Dangers Of Krill Oil. Krill are tiny shrimp-like sea creatures with a hard external skeleton (known as crustaceans) that make up among the largest biomasses on the planet-between 500 and 800 million tons, weighing almost double that of humans. There are roughly 85 species of krill living in the world's oceans. In fact Antarctic krill is a so-called keystone species on which many of the oceans' predators depend on for their food, including whales, seals, squid, penguins and many species of birds. Antarctic krill oil contains a highly nutritious blend of omega-3 fats, antioxidants and choline.
Krill is a small sea creature that is a relative of the shrimp family. It is a major food source for many larger sea animals such as whales, seals and others. Krill happens to be high in omega-3 fatty acids and astazanthin, a powerful anti-oxidant substance. 
85 Different Species. There are 85 species of krill, the most popular which include Antarctic krill (Euphausia superb), deep-sea krill (Bentheuphausia amblyops), North Pacific krill (Euphausia pacifica) and Northern krill (Meganyctiphanes norvegica). Krill can live from two to six years, and some live as long as 10 years. Krill resemble shrimp but are much smaller. shrimp image by pearlguy from Fotolia.com. Krill are small crustaceans resembling shrimp. They average 2 inches in length and are found in the Arctic and Antarctic oceans. These tiny invertebrates are essential to the global food chain and the planet’s marine ecosystems. Krill travel together in dense schools called swarm
This usually refers to the species of krill called Euphausia superba. Krill oil is used for heart disease, high levels of certain blood fats (triglycerides), high cholesterol, high blood pressure, stroke, cancer, osteoarthritis, depression, premenstrual syndrome (PMS), and painful menstrual periods. However, it is likely that krill oil can cause some side effects similar to fish oil such as bad breath, heartburn, fishy taste, upset stomach, nausea, and loose stools. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of krill oil during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Krill are crustaceans and have a chitinous exoskeleton made up of three tagmata: the cephalon (head), the pereion (fused to the cephalon to form a cephalothorax), and the pleon. This outer shell of krill is transparent in most species. Of this, over half is eaten by whales, seals, penguins, squid and fish each year, and is replaced by growth and reproduction. Most krill species display large daily vertical migrations, thus providing food for predators near the surface at night and in deeper waters during the day.
Krill are small crustaceans of the order Euphausiacea, and are found in all the world's oceans. The name krill comes from the Norwegian word krill, meaning young fry of fish, which is also often attributed to other species of fish. Of this, over half is eaten by whales, seals, penguins, squid and fish each year, and is replaced by growth and reproduction. Most krill species display large daily vertical migrations, thus providing food for predators near the surface at night and in deeper waters during the day.
There are many species of krill found throughout the world's oceans, but the most well known krill is the Antarctic Krill or Euphausia superba. It can form large, dense swarms that attract whales, seals, penguins, squid, and predatory fish. 
Krill are considered an important trophic level connection – near the bottom of the food chain – because they feed on phytoplankton and to a lesser extent zooplankton, converting these into a form suitable for many larger animals for whom krill makes up the largest part of their diet. Of this, over half is eaten by whales, seals, penguins, squid and fish each year, and is replaced by growth and reproduction. Most krill species display large daily vertical migrations, thus providing food for predators near the surface at night and in deeper waters during the day.