Degree Requirements. The BLS states the minimum education for an electrical engineer is a bachelor’s degree. A bachelor’s degree program in electrical engineering requires a four-year commitment. Some cooperative programs are available that allow students to earn credit for work experience in the field. A four-year degree program also requires students to complete general education courses such as social sciences, humanities, chemistry, physics and advanced mathematics. Students must also complete English composition courses, economics and public speaking to complete the degree program.
Duties may range from reviewing government regulations and city ordinances to designing highways. A bachelor's degree from an accredited program is the minimum requirement for most civil engineering jobs, and these engineers often need to earn professional engineer licensure. Civil Engineering: Requirements for Becoming a Civil Engineer. Civil engineers require a significant amount of formal education. Learn more about education and training programs, as well as job duties and licensing, to determine if this is the right career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
The following how-to guide explains what you need to know to become a mechanical engineer, from basic educational requirements to graduate training to build your credentials. The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) predicts the addition of 11,600 mechanical engineers from 2012 to 2022. The BLS reports that a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering is necessary for most entry-level positions in the field. Students may also choose to complete a two-year pre-engineering degree and find related work as a mechanical drafter.
Engineering is a 4 year college degree. You would take lots of math and science courses before you get into the core engineering courses. Chemical engineers often minor in chemistry, electrical engineers in computer science, mechanical and aeronautical engineers take a lot of physics and so on. All use math extensively. You would take lots of math and science courses before you get into the core engineering courses. Chemical engineers often minor in chemistry, electrical engineers in computer science, mechanical and aeronautical engineers take a lot of physics and so on
Job Requirements. The requirements to become an engineer typically include a bachelor's degree in an engineering discipline, though a master's degree may be needed for advancement in some fields. Engineers in the United States need a bachelor's degree in engineering. Engineers who work with the public are also required to become licensed. Licensure requirements include completing an accredited program and passing a series of exam
Education Requirements. If you're new to the field, a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering is usually suitable to qualify you for an entry-level job. Many schools offer majors specifically in mechanical engineering, though some relevant alternatives include mathematics, chemistry, or physics. 
Degree Requirement. Most employers prefer a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering for entry-level mechanical engineering jobs. However, some graduates with other engineering specialties, or with a bachelor's in science or math, can find mechanical engineering jobs when demand is particularly high. For state licensing, engineers need a bachelor's degree from an ABET-accredited engineering school and work experience under a licensed professional engineer. They must also take the Fundamentals of Engineering exam before passing the Principles and Practice of Engineering exam for licensing.
A bachelor's degree from an accredited program is the minimum requirement for most civil engineering jobs. Aspiring civil engineers may look to the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology (ABET) for a list of approved programs (www.abet.org). Civil Engineering: Requirements for Becoming a Civil Engineer. Civil engineers require a significant amount of formal education. Learn more about education and training programs, as well as job duties and licensing, to determine if this is the right career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».