Yes you can move all your files from internal memory to SD CARD. To move all application you can install App SD. To move all messages you can install  SMS BackUP Pro. To transfer file you can use a file manager application and cut paste all the multimedia files to SD card. Thanks. HI there, In order to move all the apps installed in the internal memory of your device, you need to install an app called APP TO SD. This app allows you to transfer the apps from internal memory to SD CARD. Also, it pokes you whenever an app installs in internal memory of your device.
4. Select an App. Tap on the app that you want to move to SD card. Look for a button that says Move to SD Card. Tap it to move the app. If the button is greyed out, the app does not support moving to the SD card. If the button is missing your version of Android and your phone do not support moving apps to the SD card. 1  Remember, an app has to be specifically designed to allow being moved to an SD card in order for this option to be available.
Tap on that to switch from phone to Memory Card and vice versa. To move all your pics from Phone to SD, connect your phone to computer via USB make sure you have KIES installed on the computer before doing this. One the computer recognizes your phone click on Open Devices to view folder contents. You should have two storage options available. Phone & Card. 
September 21, 2013 5:15:04 PM. You can move files between your SD card, phone storage, and computer several ways. The easiest way is to be connected to a computer and just drag and drop files as needed. I prefer wireless ability to do this and use Airdroid which uses your home WiFi to transfer files. Its not as fast but its very convenient. 
You can basically move everything from your internal phone memory to SD card in Android. First, you need to locate the data location where everything including photos, videos are stored in your phone. Normally, photos in Android phone are stored automatically in (unless specified otherwise by the user). SD card is the best place to save your photos. Once you move pictures from gallery to SD card, you can easily transfer them, travel with them and share them with others. In Samsung Galaxy S5 or any other Android phone, you can move pictures to SD card very easily.
Moving apps onto a memory card frees up space on your phone’s internal storage and can speed up operation of the device. If your Android 4.4 phone has an SD slot with a card in it, use the phone’s native Application Manager program to transfer apps out of internal memory and onto the card. If you view an app’s App Info screen and the Move to SD Card button is grayed out, the app cannot be moved. If you change your mind or decide to remove or upgrade your SD card, transfer apps back into the phone’s internal memory to avoid having to download them again.
Some core apps can’t be transferred to an SD card. If you view an app’s App Info screen and the Move to SD Card button is grayed out, the app cannot be moved. If you change your mind or decide to remove or upgrade your SD card, transfer apps back into the phone’s internal memory to avoid having to download them again.
Since we want to move files from the phone onto the memory card we want to select Device storage. Once Device storage is opened a list of all the files on your phones internal storage will appear. This is where you want to search/browse for files that you want to move from your phone to your SD card. One of the first things that you will need to do is find the files on your phone that you want to transfer to your SD card. This is actually really easy to do once you know where to start looking. Here is how to locate the picture and video files in the phones original default storage location.
Moving Applications to the SD Card. Tap the “Settings” icon in your app drawer or on the home screen to launch the Settings application. Scroll down and select “Application Manager” under the Applications heading. Tap the name of the app you want to move. Tap the “Move to SD Card” button on the app's App Info screen. If you view an app’s App Info screen and the Move to SD Card button is grayed out, the app cannot be moved. If you change your mind or decide to remove or upgrade your SD card, transfer apps back into the phone’s internal memory to avoid having to download them again.