Answer. The highest educational attainment in terms of a degree is a doctorate. There are two level of doctorates. Research doctorates and professional doctores which are equivalent to master's level degrees plus an internship.
Students who are seeking general education at this level are most likely to earn an Associate of Arts (A.A.) or an Associate of Science (A.S.) in topics ranging from literature to computer programming. The A.A. and A.S. degrees are most suited to transfer to a 4-year college or university.
I am filling in a CV and I have to choose my level of education. I am on the third year of university education (junior), and I wonder if level of education means the education I have already got (high school diploma in my case), or the education I am getting now (Bachelor's degree in my case).
A minimum of a bachelor's degree is required to teach in any school system, and a four-year degree in education is one of the easiest ways (and the most traditional way) to begin your career. There are thousands of programs to choose from, and most colleges and universities will even include certification testing.
Types of Different Degree Levels Available. There are four major categories of degrees available for postsecondary students: associate, bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees. Earning one of these degrees can take 2-8 years, depending on the level of the degree and field of study.
Undergraduate degrees prepare students for specific careers or provide a basic university education with a specialty in a particular discipline. Graduate-level degree programs enable students to develop expertise in a chosen field of study.
Associate-level programs offer different degrees for a variety of careers. These 2-year programs may provide the necessary training to prepare students for entry-level positions in fields like nursing, graphic design and other vocational areas.
Undergraduate Degrees. There are two broad categories of undergraduate college degrees: associate's degrees and bachelor's degrees. The average amount of time it takes to earn a degree-also called time to degree-is two years for an associate's degree and four years for a bachelor's degree.
Most postsecondary institutions seek college professors who hold the top degree available in their subject of interest, which is usually a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.). Other types of doctorate degrees, from the Doctor of Education (Ed.D.) to the Doctor of Musical Arts (D.M.A.), also show a high level of expertise.