To download the Virginia Permit Application, see the link below: http://www.vsp.state.va.us/downloads/SP-248_Application_for_Concealed_Handgun_Permit_Rev_7-1-2013.pdf. For a list of states you can carry in with your Virginia Permit, see the link below: http://www.vsp.state.va.us/Firearms_Reciprocity.shtm. First, you will register, pay and take our online video course. The video is about 45 minutes long and upon completion of the video you will see a link where you can continue on to take a simple 20 question test. Upon passing this test, you will have your certificate which you can then use to apply for your permit.
Since you are no longer a resident of TN, you will need to apply to CO for a CO permit since you will be a resident of that state. please help..i am moving to texas so can i transfer my ohio concealed carry license to texas without taking class. I just moved to Houston from Denver. To view a state’s concealed weapons permit information just click on the state. The first screen on this map shows whether a state is Shall Issue, May Issue, or Right Denied (Explained below map). View a list of all concealed carry permits on one page here.
Simply mail in your application, certificate, and application fee, and within 60 days, you will receive your Virginia Concealed Handgun Permit. Then you can carry in Texas, Virginia and 26 other states! For more information about the Virginia Nonresidents Permit, see the link below: First, you will register, pay and take our online video course. The video is about 45 minutes long and upon completion of the video you will see a link where you can continue on to take a simple 20 question test. Upon passing this test, you will have your certificate which you can then use to apply for your permit.
You will not be eligible to re-apply for a license until 2014. Under Government Code, § 411.171(a) (8), a person is not eligible for a concealed handgun license if he/she has a Class B or Class A conviction within 5 years preceding the date of application. 
You may submit a request to change the address on your CHL online at http://www.texas.gov/txapp/txdps/chl/ or download a Request for Duplicate Concealed Handgun License and Change of Name or Address (CHL-70) . Students attending school out-of-state may leave their permanent address on their CHL. If you are in a state that has reciprocity with Texas, you must follow that state’s laws for carrying a concealed handgun. The same responsibility applies to anyone from another state when traveling in Texas; they must follow Texa
The standard fee for an original CHL is $140. The standard fee for a renewal of a CHL is $70. However, Texas law provides for some discounts if you meet certain special conditions. A complete list of fees along with the special conditions can be found on the fee schedule. For applications submitted electronically, the fees may be paid using a credit or debit card. If you are in a state that has reciprocity with Texas, you must follow that state’s laws for carrying a concealed handgun. The same responsibility applies to anyone from another state when traveling in Texas; they must follow Texa
Application to carry a concealed handgun is made to the local sheriff on a form prescribed by the Ohio Peace Officers Training Commission. Out Of State Permit Issue: No, individuals must be Ohio residents for 45 days before application and at least 21 years of age. I have a Texas CCW but spend 3 to 4 months a year in Ohio. No way I can carry in Ohio. I have taken Ohio training and had CCW when I lived there. You need only reside for 45 days in Ohio to get your Ohio CCW.
1 In order to be eligible for a Texas concealed handgun license, you must be fully eligible under both Texas and federal law to purchase a handgun (except for military applicants who are at least 18 years of age but under the age of 21). 1 Yes. 2  In order to be eligible for a Texas concealed handgun license, you must be fully eligible under both Texas and federal law to purchase a handgun (except for military applicants who are at least 18 years of age but under the age of 21). 3  SIGN UP for a class TODAY! - top -.
The Texas permit requires extensive training classes that can be long, boring and expensive. Not everybody has time to sit through 8 hour classes. Then the remainder of the process is long, tedious, time consuming and expensive. First, you will register, pay and take our online video course. The video is about 45 minutes long and upon completion of the video you will see a link where you can continue on to take a simple 20 question test. Upon passing this test, you will have your certificate which you can then use to apply for your permit.