Today’s weird science question comes from Kendraw: “My cat is obsessed with licking me. She will tolerate pets, but what she really wants to do when she needs attention is to lick me anywhere she can get skin. She won’t lick my face, thank goodness, but my arm, elbow, and hand are fair game! She will literally hold me down in her paws and clean me. If your cat likes catnip, slip a catnip-filled kicker toy in front of her when she’s about to lick you. If she’s not a catnip fan, try a treat-dispensing toy instead.
1 Teach children how to hold and stroke cats and kittens correctly. 2  Good handling can prevent many problems. 3  If your cat continues to bite or scratch you, tap your cat firmly but gently on the top of the nose. 4  This does not hurt your cat; rather, it annoys him. A cat in middle of playing often forgets to be gentle and you may get a painful scratch or the cat will continue to play later, scratching you unexpectedly. To prevent this, provide toys that are clearly not part of you, such as fishing toys on strings, a laser-light pointer, or a catnip mouse.
1 If your cat is giving you love bites and you want to discourage this, press back gently against the bite. 2  Pressing back makes it uncomfortable for the cat, so he/she will stop biting down. 3  Pulling away fast from a play bite or grab is when you're most likely to get clawed from playing rough. A cat in middle of playing often forgets to be gentle and you may get a painful scratch or the cat will continue to play later, scratching you unexpectedly. To prevent this, provide toys that are clearly not part of you, such as fishing toys on strings, a laser-light pointer, or a catnip mouse.
Resolved Question: My cat has been avoiding me lately-she runs away when I try to pet her and she used to sleep with me everynight and now does not want to come near me. This started after I was gone for a long weekend. I have left her before for longer periods and have never had this reaction. PawsDoc is online now. My cat has been avoiding me lately-she runs away when I try to pet her and she used to sleep with me everynight and now does not want to come near me.
4. Prevent her from attacking your ankle. When you least expect it, your cat may jump out and start biting your ankle. To your cat, your ankle is an easy moving target, especially if she does not have many other toys or objects in her environment to keep her busy. When she bites your ankle, do not try to run or pull away. 
Usually they spend most of the day sleeping. At night is when a cat really comes into it's being. My cat does the same thing. She doesn't want to be held, or petted, but at night she is curled up against me while I am sleeping and purrs all the time. Cats just are nightime critters. A cat's purr is caused by the vibration of the cats vocal cords. When air is taken into the lungs, it passes through the voice box, which contains the vocal cords. Purring is … obviously under control of the cat and they can purr at will, to show contentment.
To stop your cat from licking you, distract her. Learn the signs that your cat is about to start licking. Before she starts washing your arm raw, redirect her attention with a toy. If your cat likes catnip, slip a catnip-filled kicker toy in front of her when she’s about to lick you. If she’s not a catnip fan, try a treat-dispensing toy instead.
Remove yourself from the situation. The first thing to do is stop touching the cat and then hold your hands well out of striking range. If he doesn't calm down within a few seconds, stand up slowly so you can remove him from your lap. Walk away and do not return until he has calmed down. A cat in middle of playing often forgets to be gentle and you may get a painful scratch or the cat will continue to play later, scratching you unexpectedly. To prevent this, provide toys that are clearly not part of you, such as fishing toys on strings, a laser-light pointer, or a catnip mouse.
BigStockPhoto. In ancient Egypt, cats were revered as gods and often buried alongside their beloved kings and queens. Today we continue to revere our household cats, yet sometimes, it can feel as if they are treating us more like servants than royalty. 