The Arctic tundra, where the average temperature is 10 to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-12 to -6 degrees Celsius), supports a variety of animal species, including Arctic foxes, polar bears, gray wolves, caribou, snow geese and musk-oxen. Photograph by Rich Reid. Tundras are among Earth's coldest, harshest biomes. Tundra ecosystems are treeless regions found in the Arctic and on the tops of mountains, where the climate is cold and windy and rainfall is scant. Tundra lands are snow-covered for much of the year, until summer brings a burst of wildflowers.
Here you can find information on the climate of the Tundra. Tundra landscape. The winter temperatures average about -30 F throughout most of the true Arctic including the North Pole. The coldest weather occurs in northeastern Siberia. July temperatures there average around 60 F. Weather stations have recorded temperatures of 90 F and above in these regions. Winter storms develop chiefly in two areas where the barometric pressures remains low. One of these areas, called the Aleutian low, extends from eastern Siberia to the Gulf of Alaska.
There is little precipitation all year long in the Tundra. The average yearly total is 136 mm, out of which 83.3 mm is snow. This low amount is due to the fact that there is very little evaporation. Since the average temperature is below freezing, it give little or no time for any of the snow and/or ice to melt. 
The tundra is an unusually cold and dry climate. Precipitation totals 6-10 inches of rain a year, which includes melted snow. This is almost as little as the world's driest deserts. Tundra Climate (E). The tundra is freezing for almost all of the year with no traditional seasons, only a very long winter. Winter conditions in the tundra exist most of the year, with the exception of a very short mild season which passes for summer.
The average precipitation per year is more than 18 inches, and most of it falls as the snow. Average precipitation per season is 4.5 inches. The type of precipitation that falls in this climate is mostly snow in the winter, and in the summer it is rain, with occasional snow. Tundra Climate (E). The tundra is freezing for almost all of the year with no traditional seasons, only a very long winter. Winter conditions in the tundra exist most of the year, with the exception of a very short mild season which passes for summer.
The arctic is known for its cold, desert-like conditions. The growing season ranges from 50 to 60 days. The average winter temperature is -34 C (-30 F), but the average summer temperature is 3-12 C (37-54 F) which enables this biome to sustain life. Rainfall may vary in different regions of the arctic. Yearly precipitation, including melting snow, is 15 to 25 cm (6 to 10 inches). Soil is formed slowly. The tundra biome. Tundra is the coldest of all the biomes. Tundra comes from the Finnish word tunturi, meaning treeless plain. It is noted for its frost-molded landscapes, extremely low temperatures, little precipitation, poor nutrients, and short growing seasons. Dead organic material functions as a nutrient pool.
Spring and fall are only short periods between winter and summer. The tundra is the world's coldest and driest biomes. The average annual temperature is -18° F (-28° C). Nights can last for weeks when the sun barely rises during some months in the winter, and the temperature can drop to -94° F (-70° C). The tundra is basically like a desert when it comes to precipitation. Only about 6 - 10 inches of precipitation (mostly snow) fall each year. Below the soil is the tundra's permafrost, a permanently frozen layer of earth.
Conditions are not right for a true tundra to form. Average annual temperatures are -70°F (-56°C). Tundra comes from the Finnish word tunturia, which means a barren land. The ground is permanently frozen 10 inches to 3 feet (25 to 100 cm) down so that trees can't grow there. The tundra is basically like a desert when it comes to precipitation. Only about 6 - 10 inches of precipitation (mostly snow) fall each year. Below the soil is the tundra's permafrost, a permanently frozen layer of earth.
During the winter season, the average temperature is -34° C (-30° F), and during the summer season, the temperature is 3-12° C (37-54° F), which is when the most wildlife can be seen. The yearly precipitation is a mere. 
Alpine climate is the average weather (climate) for the alpine tundra. The climate becomes colder at high elevations —this characteristic is described by the lapse rate of air: air tends to get colder as it rises, since it expands. Alpine tundra in North-Western Transbaikalia. Alpine tundra is a type of natural region or biome that does not contain trees because it is at high altitude. The high altitude causes an adverse climate, which is too cold and windy to support tree growth.