A clade is by definition monophyletic, meaning it contains one ancestor (which can be an organism, a population, or a species) and all its descendants. The ancestor can be known or unknown; any and all members of a clade can be extant or extinct. 1 A clade located within a clade is said to be nested within that clade. 2  In the diagram, the hominoid clade, the apes and humans, is nested within the primate clade. 3  Two clades are sisters if they have an immediate common ancestor.
Image caption: A clade is a grouping that includes a common ancestor and all the descendants (living and extinct) of that ancestor. Using a phylogeny, it is easy to tell if a group of lineages forms a clade. Imagine clipping a single branch off the phylogeny  all of the organisms on that pruned branch make up a clade. 
Best Answer: Monophyletic means, originated from a single ancestor. If a group of organisms, say different phyla, are originated from a single common ancestor, then it it is said to have monophyletic origin. A clade is a group of organisms, consisting of a common ancestor and all its descendants. A clade is a taxonomic grouping. A clade is in that same group, because a clade, by definition is a taxonomic group comprised of a single common ancestor and all the descendants of that ancestor. A bit confusing, but if you read it and look at it closely it makes sense. A great question! The Answer Guy · 7 years ago.
A clade (from Ancient Greek: κλάδος, klados, branch) is a group of organisms that consists of a common ancestor and all its lineal descendants, and represents a single branch on the  tree of life . 1 A clade located within a clade is said to be nested within that clade. 2  In the diagram, the hominoid clade, the apes and humans, is nested within the primate clade. 3  Two clades are sisters if they have an immediate common ancestor.
In biology and biological taxonomy, a clade is a group consisting of a single common ancestor, all the descendants of that ancestor, and nothing else. Over centuries of work, biological taxonomy has endeavored to split groups into clades, rejecting non-clade classifications, which are referred to as paraphyletic.. A group that excludes descendants of a common ancestor isn't a clade. Apes aren't a clade because humans descended from apes and humans generally aren't considered apes. If you include humans and the extinct relatives of humans, like Neanderthals, to be apes, then apes are a clade, but this generally isn't done.
A clade is termed “monophyletic”, meaning it contains one ancestor which can be an organism, population or species and all its descendents. The term clade refers to the grouping of the ancestor and its living and/or deceased descendants together. In terms of biological systematic, a clade is a single “branch” on the “tree of life”. Charles Darwin, a English Naturalist, believed that the ascent of all species through time was expressible as a metaphor he termed the Tree of Life.
Clade. Clade (n). a monophyletic group; a group of organisms (usually species) that are more closely related to each other than any other group, implying a shared most recent common ancestor. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 