Drugs are classified as single or multi source. This refers to the number of manufacturers of the drug. Single source drugs become multi source when new drug patent expi … res.   For example, a new drug released to marketplace is considered single source for the length of the patent. Only one maufacturer can produce it, so there is a single source. 
Source of drugs. 1  1. :Pharmacology: It is a science of drugs. 2  It covers all aspects of knowledge of drugs. 3  Drug: Any substance or product that is used or intended, to be modify or explore physiological systems or pathological states for the benefit of the recipient. ( 4 Wld.Hlth.Org.Tech). 
1. Plant Sources: Plant source is the oldest source of drugs. Most of the drugs in ancient times were derived from plants. Almost all parts of the plants are used i.e. . leaves, stem, bark, fruits and roots. 1 Sheep thyroid is a source of thyroxin, used in hypertension. 2  Cod liver is used as a source of vitamin A and D. 3  Anterior pituitary is a source of pituitary gonadotropins, used in treatment of infertility.
Therapeutic or pharmaceutical drugs are commonly called medications, medicine, pills, or just drugs. There are many sources of drugs and many resources are readily available to help identify, dispense, and administer medications competently, safely, and in accordance with the law. Drugs are derived from the following four main sources: 1  Plant sources: Obtained from plant parts or products. 2  Seeds, stem, roots, leaves, resin, and other parts yield these drugs. 3  Examples include digitalis and opium.
Sources of Drugs. Drugs are obtained from many sources. Many inorganic materials, such as metals, are chemotherapeutic; hormones, alkaloids, vaccines, and antibiotics come from living organisms; and other drugs are synthetic or semisynthetic. More on drugs Sources of Drugs from Infoplease: 1  drugs: Sources of Drugs-Sources of Drugs Drugs are obtained from many sources. 2  Many inorganic materials, such as metals, ...
1 Mineral sources: Some drugs are prepared from minerals, for example, potassium, chloride, and lithium carbonate (an antipsychotic). 2  Synthetic sources: Laboratories duplicate natural processes. 3  Frequently this can eliminate side effects and increase the potency of the drug. Drugs are derived from the following four main sources: 1  Plant sources: Obtained from plant parts or products. 2  Seeds, stem, roots, leaves, resin, and other parts yield these drugs. 3  Examples include digitalis and opium.
1 drugs: Sources of Drugs-Sources of Drugs Drugs are obtained from many sources. 2  Many inorganic materials, such as metals, ... More on drugs Sources of Drugs from Infoplease: 1 
Animal Sources: 1  Pancreas is a source of Insulin, used in treatment of Diabetes. 2  Urine of pregnant women gives human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) used for the treatment of infertility. 3  Sheep thyroid is a source of thyroxin, used in hypertension. 1 Sheep thyroid is a source of thyroxin, used in hypertension. 2  Cod liver is used as a source of vitamin A and D. 3  Anterior pituitary is a source of pituitary gonadotropins, used in
Sources of Drugs. 1  Primitive Medicine; Folklore, witchcraft, dreams, trances etc. 2  Also from observing the reaction of some animals to particular herbs. 3  Through primitive medicine quinine was discovered from Africa; used for malaria and limejuice for Ascorbic acid/Vitamin C and this is used for scurvy and gum bleeding. Sources of Drugs. 1  Primitive Medicine; Folklore, witchcraft, dreams, trances etc. 2  Plants; Roots, bark, sap, leaves, flowers, seeds were sources for drugs e.g. 3  Animal sources; gave us hormones for replacement in times of deficiencies e.g. 4  Minerals; including acids, bases and salts like potassium chloride. 5  Natural; OCCURRING SUBSTANCES like proteins.
In this section a detailed description of major sources of drugs, including the VDF, will be presented based on the rapid appraisal of drug sources in 195 sample villages in the eight sample provinces, and on qualitative data from the 15 village casestudies in Chiangrai and Chaiyapoom. The grocery shop. 