Kwashiorkor is a form of protein-energy malnutrition  that most often affects children in regions of the world where  there is famine or a limited food supply. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Kwashiorkor affects the human body in several different ways. Some of these things include pitting edema, distended abdomen, enlarged liver, thinning hair, loss of teeth, and dermatitis.
Introduction. Kwashiorkor is a form of malnutrition that most often affects children in developing regions of the world where there is famine or a limited food supply. The main sign of kwashiorkor is having too much fluid in body tissues, causing swelling under the skin (oedema). Print this page. Kwashiorkor is a form of malnutrition that most often affects children in developing regions of the world where there is famine or a limited food supply.
Kwashiorkor. Photo by: TheFinalMiracle. Kwashiorkor (kwash-e-OR-kor) is a form of severe malnutrition that affects children living in poverty in tropical and subtropical parts of the world. It is caused by a lack of protein in the diet. Kwashiorkor stunts growth and causes children to have bloated bellies and thin arms and legs. Kwashiorkor is a disease caused by the lack of protein in a child's diet. Kwashiorkor is a type of protein energy malnutrition (PEM) that is widespread throughout the developing world.
Marasmus is a form of severe malnutrition characterized by energy deficiency. A child with marasmus looks emaciated. Body weight is reduced to less than 60% of the normal (expected) body weight for the age. Marasmus occurrence increases prior to age 1, whereas kwashiorkor occurrence increases after 18 months. 
Answer by Guy Ldn. Confidence votes 6. Kwashiorkor is a form of protein-energy malnutrition that most often affects children in regions of the world where there is famine or a limited food supply. The main sign of kwashiorkor is having too much fluid in body tissues, causing swelling under the skin. Kwashiorkor is a form of malnutrition caused by inadequate(not enough) protein intake in the presence of fair to good energy (total calories) intake. Kwashiorkor is a condit … ion of malnutrition characterized by a swollen belly. Kwashiorkor is severe protein malnutrition, especially in children.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Kwashiorkor /kwɑːʃiˈɔrkər/ is a form of severe protein–energy malnutrition characterized by edema, irritability, anorexia, ulcerating dermatoses, and an enlarged liver with fatty infiltrates. Sufficient calorie intake, but with insufficient protein consumption, distinguishes it from marasmus. 