1 In a blog post at Eataduckimust.com, the writer listed down the following retail prices of organic chicken pieces: They stated that an air chilled organic value chicken should cost $1.99 per pound while a drumstick could cost $2.49 per pound. 2  On the other hand, a boneless skinless chicken breast cost $6.99 a pound. Incorporating organic chicken into your diet will not only bring you several health benefits, but also it allows you to help promote a healthier ecosystem. 1  Depending on the part and the type of chicken, the cost of an organic chicken is going to range anywhere from as little as $2 per pound to as much as $8
No Follow. Chicken thighs can range in size, but for typical grocery store brands, figure that four bone-in, skin-on thighs will weigh about 1 ½ pounds. But each of those thighs will yield about 2 ½ to 3 ounces of meat (the rest of the weight is skin and bone). I generally figure on two thighs per person. The weight is not a hard and fast rule, but is a general guideline
You can get four 4oz. portions from one pound (16 ounces) of boneless, skinless chicken breasts. At $1.99 per pound, that means one serving costs $0.50 each. The chicken drumsticks are a little trickier. Four to five drumsticks weigh about one pound (16 ounces). But, you have bone which makes up about 33% of the total weight and skin that makes up about 17% of the total weight. That means the remaining 50% left is the raw meat. Two small drumsticks will get you 4 ounces of raw meat
1 Depending on the part and the type of chicken, the cost of an organic chicken is going to range anywhere from as little as $2 per pound to as much as $8 per pound. 2  For example, chicken wings could cost $3 to $5 per pound while boneless skinless thighs could cost $5 to $7 per pound. Incorporating organic chicken into your diet will not only bring you several health benefits, but also it allows you to help promote a healthier ecosystem. 1 
So, out of a pound of drumsticks (4 to 5 legs total), you get only two servings, 4-ounces each. So, if chicken drumsticks are on sale for $0.99 a pound, you are paying $0.50 per serving. Dr. Barb's Analysis: The boneless, skinless chicken breasts are a better buy. Four to five drumsticks weigh about one pound (16 ounces). But, you have bone which makes up about 33% of the total weight and skin that makes up about 17% of the total weight. That means the remaining 50% left is the raw meat.
Dr. Barb's Analysis: Looking only at price, the boneless, skinless thighs cost the least per serving. However, you can often find boneless, skinless chicken breasts on sale, both in the fresh meat department and in the frozen food aisles of the supermarket or store for about $0.50 a serving. When you find them on sale, stock up and buy several packages and store them in the freezer for up to 9 months. In addition to looking at cost per pound, you also need to consider cost per serving, especially with cuts of meat or poultry that have bones, or skin, or visible fat.
1 For example, chicken wings could cost $3 to $5 per pound while boneless skinless thighs could cost $5 to $7 per pound. 2  Generally, the skinless chicken breast will cost the most. Incorporating organic chicken into your diet will not only bring you several health benefits, but also it allows you to help promote a healthier ecosystem. 1  Depending on the part and the type of chicken, the cost of an organic chicken is going to range anywhere from as little as $2 per pound to as much as $8
How much does it cost? 1  Depending on the part and the type of chicken, the cost of an organic chicken is going to range anywhere from as little as $2 per pound to as much as $8 per pound. Incorporating organic chicken into your diet will not only bring you several health benefits, but also it allows you to help promote a healthier ecosystem.
Headline Clickable. Chicken thighs can range in size, but for typical grocery store brands, figure that four bone-in, skin-on thighs will weigh about 1 ½ pounds. But each of those thighs will yield about 2 ½ to 3 ounces of meat (the rest of the weight is skin and bone). I generally figure on two thighs per person. The weight is not a hard and fast rule, but is a general guideline
by Margaret Walker on Sat, 10/16/2010 - 02:57. The average cost of a chicken per pound varies depending on location and is also calculated on the basis of boneless or with bones. Economically it is cheaper when you buy the whole chicken. The cost of a chicken per pound also varies on the basis of male and female chicken; for example if you buy male chicken its cost will come to around $.67 and $2.3 per pound, and for a female chicken its cost comes around for $2 to $4.5 per pound. Overall the average cost of a chicken per pound is $2.25. 