Comvita® Manuka Honey Blend is a delicious blend of New Zealand’s unique and special UMF® Manuka Honey with other rich and herbaceous New Zealand bush honeys. Comvita® Manuka Honey Blend contains at least 50% Comvita® UMF® 5+ Manuka Honey. This is combined with bush honey from the native Rewarewa and Kamahi trees to bring you a superior blend with a rich floral flavour. Available sizes: 250g, 500g and 1kg jar. Comvita® UMF® 5+ Manuka Honey is produced in New Zealand and contains unique plant phenols naturally present at varying levels in honey made from the nectar of the Manuka bush (Leptospermum scoparium), native to New Zealand.
Comvita® UMF® 15+ Manuka Honey is produced in New Zealand and contains unique plant phenols naturally present at varying levels in honey made from the nectar of the Manuka bush (Leptospermum scoparium), native to New Zealand. UMF® stands for ‘Unique Manuka Factor’, a measure of the unique properties found in honey made form the nectar of the Manuka bush (Leptospermum scoparium), native to New Zealand. Comvita® UMF® 15+ Manuka Honey is guaranteed to be at least UMF® 15. Directions.
From the hive to the shelf, trust Comvita UMF Manuka Honey. Manuka honey is one of nature's special gifts. Sourced from some of New Zealand’s most pure and remote locations it is renowned for its unique flavour; Manuka Honey is recognised worldwide for its unique properties not found in ordinary honey. It’s a busy start to the honey season. All Comvita UMF® Manuka Honey is traceable to its source-from the hive to the shelf. We work closely with our bees and beekeepers to produce UMF® Manuka Honey of the highest quality.
UMF® stands for Unique Manuka Factor and is a measure of the unique properties found at varying levels in honey made from the nectar of the Manuka bush (Leptospermum scoparium), native to New Zealand. New Zealand UMF® Grade Manuka Honey is highly regarded and its reputation continues to grow. 0Reviews. Comvita Manuka Honey Lozenges with Olive Leaf Extract combine the unique soothing qualities of UMF Manuka Honey with the power of Olive Leaf Extract. New Zealand Manuka has long been valued for its health-maintaining effects and Manuka Honey is gaining worldwide recognition for its unique properties.
Comvita® is the world’s largest manufacturer of premium quality UMF® Manuka Honey. Comvita® UMF® 5+ Manuka Honey is guaranteed to be at least UMF® 5. The UMF grading system appraises natural markers found in Manuka honey, and assures purity & quality. Please see www.umf.org.nz. Available sizes: 250g, 500g and 1kg jar. Comvita® UMF® 5+ Manuka Honey is produced in New Zealand and contains unique plant phenols naturally present at varying levels in honey made from the nectar of the Manuka bush (Leptospermum scoparium), native to New Zealand.
Comvita Manuka Honey Lozenges with Propolis combine the unique soothing qualities of UMF Manuka Honey with the power of Propolis. New Zealand Manuka has long been valued for its health-maintaining effects and Manuka Honey is gaining worldwide recognition for its unique properties. 0Reviews. Comvita Manuka Honey Lozenges with Olive Leaf Extract combine the unique soothing qualities of UMF Manuka Honey with the power of Olive Leaf Extract. New Zealand Manuka has long been valued for its health-maintaining effects and Manuka Honey is gaining worldwide recognition for its unique properties.
Comvita® is the world’s largest manufacturer of premium quality UMF® Manuka Honey. Comvita® UMF® 15+ Manuka Honey is guaranteed to be at least UMF® 15. The UMF grading system appraises natural markers found in Manuka honey, and assures purity & quality. Please see www.umf.org.nz. UMF® stands for ‘Unique Manuka Factor’, a measure of the unique properties found in honey made form the nectar of the Manuka bush (Leptospermum scoparium), native to New Zealand. Comvita® UMF® 15+ Manuka Honey is guaranteed to be at least UMF® 15. Directions.
Save 30% when you buy Comvita's UMF 5+ Manuka Honey 500g in a shrink-wrapped pack of three. UMF 5+ Manuka Honey is produced in New Zealand and contains unique plant phenols. It is guaranteed to be at least UMF 5+ and has been verified by an independent testing laboratory. 0Reviews. Comvita Manuka Honey Lozenges with Olive Leaf Extract combine the unique soothing qualities of UMF Manuka Honey with the power of Olive Leaf Extract. New Zealand Manuka has long been valued for its health-maintaining effects and Manuka Honey is gaining worldwide recognition for its unique properties.