1 Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness. Lyme disease facts. 1  Lyme disease is a bacterial illness that is spread by tick bites. 2  Lyme disease can affect the skin, joints, heart, and the nervous system. 3  Lyme disease occurs in phases, with the early phase beginning at the site of the tick bite with an expanding ring of redness.
Borrelia Burgdorferi. Lyme disease is an infection caused by several strains of the bacteria Borrelia burgdorferi (Bb) . The bacteria is transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected tick. These ticks can also transmit other diseases and infect pets and livestock. The tick that transmits Lyme is so small you may not notice it. 
Lyme disease is an infection caused by bacterium carried by deer ticks. If caught early, it is easily treated with antibiotics. If left untreated, the infection can spread to the joints, heart, and nervous system, causing a complex debilitating disorder that is more difficult to treat. Lyme Disease Causes. The bacterium that causes Lyme disease is called Borrelia burgdorferi. People get infected through a bite of an infected black-legged tick, which feed from mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians. Humans may get bit by a tick when walking through high grasses and shrubs.
Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. 
Knowledge center. Lyme disease, also known as borreliosis, is a Borrelia burgdorferi bacterium infection. The bacterium is transmitted to humans when they are bitten by an infected tick. Borrelia burgdorferi has a unique feature not present in any other known organism-it can exist without iron. 
Lyme disease is a bacterial illness caused by a bacterium called a spirochete.. In the United States, the actual name of the bacterium is Borrelia burgdorferi. In Europe, the bacteria Borrelia afzelii and Borrelia garinii also cause Lyme disease. 
Lyme disease is an infection that is transmitted through the bite of a tick infected with a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. Lyme disease is transmitted through a bite from a specific type of tick. The animals that most often carry these insects are white-footed field mice, deer, raccoons, opossums, skunks, weasels, foxes, shrews, moles, chipmunks, squirrels, and horses.
Lyme disease is caused by Borrelia burgdorferi bacteria. Infected ticks spread the bacteria by biting people or animals. Two types of ticks carry the Lyme disease bacteria in the U.S. They are: 1  Deer ticks. 2  They spread the disease in the Northeast and Midwest. 3  Western black-legged ticks. 