[ syll. ris-sa, ri-ssa ] The baby girl name Rissa is pronounced as R IH S-AH †. Rissa is largely used in the English language. Its origin is Old Greek, Italian, Latin, and English-American. Rissa is a contraction of the name Carissa (English). Rissa is also an English variant transcription of the name Charissa (English and Greek). Rissa is also a variant transcription of the name Risa (English and Japanese). Rissa is also a variant transcription of the name Sharissa (English). Rissa is an unusual baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000.
Rissa is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ri-ssa. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Rissa Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Rissa has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Rissa to other names. Just for fun, see the name Rissa in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Rissa in Nautical Flags page.
Greek Meaning: The name Larissa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Larissa is: Citadel. Latin Meaning: The name Larissa is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Larissa is: Cheerful. Joyful. A lover of Poseidon.
Brissa /bris-sa/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin origin. Brissa is an alternate spelling of Brisa (Latin). Brossia is a common last name. Kreatif forms: Bridsa, Brisca, Brisda. Brissa is an unusual given name for females. Brissa is also an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of Brissa and associated names.
It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Risa is laughter. Also a short form of names like Marisa. Rise (rih-ZAY) is a French form made familiar in the 1950s through the 1970s by opera singer Rise Stevens. Marisa is the only popular variation form of Risa (unlisted) . This girl name was at the apex of its popularity in 1994 (usage of 0.855%) and is now significantly less popular, with Marisa becoming less fashionable. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Risa and affiliated names.
Risa is a somewhat prominent first name for women (#2152 out of 4276, Top 50%) and also a somewhat prominent last name for both adults and children (#124109 out of 150436, Top 82%). (2000 U.S. Census). Marisa is the only popular variation form of Risa (unlisted) . This girl name was at the apex of its popularity in 1994 (usage of 0.855%) and is now significantly less popular, with Marisa becoming less fashionable. Displayed below is a comparison of the popularity of Risa and affiliated names.
Meaning: The Greek name Rissa means-a short form of Nerissa. Rating: 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Rissa in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Rissa in Nautical Flags page.
Here are pictures of people with the name Rissa. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!