Re: What is WSO The Acronym For? WSO means Warrior Special Offer it is the part of the forum where you can offer a special to other internet marketers. This can be a jump start a new product or get some quick cash.
Certified Safety Manager (WSO-CSM) is a mid-level credentias for a safety practitioner who accomplishes the supervision and management work of safety activities at the middle manager's level. 
ACA WSO maintains a telephone line, and postal, Internet, and e-mail addresses as a stable communication base for the ACA program. ACA WSO committees prepare the literature for conference approval, prepare the monthly newsletter (the ComLine), and protect the copyright interests of the organization. ACA WSO is also working on a 12 & 12 in English. The ACA WSO Literature Committee has completed the ACA Fellowship Text (Steps & Traditions book), which, when published, the French-speaking contingency in Eastern Canada has offered to translate. We are evolving and growing.
Hi jsb1022, Welcome to the forum! The term WSO means Warrior Special Offer, which is a deal made here specifically for the warriors in this forum. This is not a general IM term per say unless the person using it has assocciation with the warrior forum. Re: What is a WSO? To those taken in by exaggerated claims of easy, big income for little or no work, WSO could stand for: Warrior Shiny Object.
I dont get the WSO. Is this acronym strictly have to do with the Warrior Forums, or is the WSO a general Internet MArketing term used by all IMers? Sorry if I seem like a dummy, but just started the IM world 2 months ago and I have been stuck in the Wealthy Affiliate forums, which imho, are useless. Re: What is a WSO? To those taken in by exaggerated claims of easy, big income for little or no work, WSO could stand for: Warrior Shiny Object.
Purpose. The primary purpose of the Adult Children of Alcoholics program is to carry the message of recovery to all who suffer from being raised in an alcoholic or dysfunctional environment (Step 12). ACA WSO is a connection between these individuals and ACA meetings, Intergroups, and Regions. ACA WSO is also working on a 12 & 12 in English. The ACA WSO Literature Committee has completed the ACA Fellowship Text (Steps & Traditions book), which, when published, the French-speaking contingency in Eastern Canada has offered to translate. We are evolving and growing.
The all-in-one digital product sale, delivery and management system. WSO Pro is the first and only tool created for managing your WSO sales -- and now you can use it to manage sales on your own site, too! Easily setup WSOs/offers, update quantities and prices, and have them automatically delivered to your buyers. Run an affiliate program, partner with JVs, and more... There are 2 versions of WSO Pro -- Personal and Advanced. If you plan to have an affiliate program, partner with others, do off-forum sales, and/or create sales funnels, Advanced is what you want.
A Weapon Systems Officer (WSO , pronounced wizzo) is an air flight officer directly involved in all air operations and weapon systems of a military aircraft. In the U.S. Air Force, WSO also refers to a USAF Combat systems officer (formerly USAF Navigator) who is the aft crew member in the F-15E Strike Eagle.
Source(s): wso internet marketing: https://trimurl.im/b76/what-is-wso-in-in... 