Some of the types of flowers that are considered hardy annuals include the pansy, cornflower, and larkspur. Annuals that can tolerate damp, cold temperatures, but not frost are called half-hardy annuals. Some examples of half-hardy annual flowers include forget-me-nots, bells of Ireland, and baby's breath. These terms are used as a means of identifying and separating certain types of flowers. What makes them different from one another is the life cycle of the plants and how long they produce blooms. When planting flowers or creating a garden, it is necessary to understand which plants are perennials and which are annuals.
Hello fellow homesteaders! We’ve gathered a list of the best types of flowers to plant for summer, that will brighten up your day all season long. The types of flowers that will wake you up in full bloom with vibrant colors. To make things a little bit easier, I have also chosen plants that do not need a lot of attention, require minimal watering, can bloom with different type of soil, and will last until summer ends. Yarrow or common yarrow can be recognized as the best flower to plant this summer. It is a plant that can adopt to the weather, and with minimal care this flower will still blossom! Find more interesting facts about Yarrow here.
Annuals. For many gardeners, annuals are a go-to solution for many garden needs. Annual flowers are a quick way to fill empty spots in flowerbeds, and early-blooming spring annuals make great additions to container gardens. A mix of annual plants can offer a colorful solution for windowbox plantings. 
Perennials, or plants and flowers that come back year after year, are found in virtually every yard. Perennial flowers work in multiple situations: in whole garden beds, in combination with annuals and bulbs, as accent to shrubs and trees, and in containers and windowboxes. You'll also discover what perennial plants work well in sun or shade, USDA Hardiness Zones, growing requirements, and planting suggestions for perennials. View a list of perennials by common name or scientific name.
Let's talk about types of annual flowers. First off, the annual plants, the annual flowers, are those that only last a year. You always replace them every year. Those are the ones you plant in the spring and then throw out in the fall and start over next year. Types of Annual Flowers-Provided by eHow. Annual flowers are plants that will only last a year and will need to be replanted every spring. Zinnias, dianthus, petunias and marigolds are all types of annual flowers. Brighten up a garden bed using annual flowers with advice from a professional..
Perennials. Anyone who has ever shopped for, purchased, planted, or cared for flowers has likely heard them referred to as either annuals or perennials. These terms are used as a means of identifying and separating certain types of flowers. What makes them different from one another is the life cycle of the plants and how long they produce blooms. When planting flowers or creating a garden, it is necessary to understand which plants are perennials and which are annuals.
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants (plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms). The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs. 
Examples of perennial flowers include the hyacinth, daffodils, tall bearded iris, and day lilies. In addition to these flowering plants, gardeners may choose from numerous other perennials. Perennial flowers or plants can be divided into different types: tender, hardy, herbaceous, and woody. These terms are used as a means of identifying and separating certain types of flowers. What makes them different from one another is the life cycle of the plants and how long they produce blooms. When planting flowers or creating a garden, it is necessary to understand which plants are perennials and which are annuals.
Peas are an annual plant. An annual plant is a plant that completes its life cycle, from germination to the production of seed, within one year, and then dies. Summer annuals germinate during spring or early summer and mature by autumn of the same year. This style of growing is often used in classrooms for education. Many desert annuals are therophytes, because their seed-to-seed life cycle is only weeks and they spend most of the year as seeds to survive dry conditions.