Mucin is a type of protein produced by the cells of the epithelium, or the tissue that lines the cavities and structures of the body. Mucins are found in all types of animals and about 19 different genes have been found to code for mucins in humans.
mucin. a mucopolysaccharide or glycoprotein which is the chief constituent of mucus. mucin clot test. the adding of acetic acid to normal synovial fluid, which causes clot formation. The compactness of the clot and the clarity of the supernatant fluid are the criteria on which the result is based.
Although some mucins are membrane-bound due to the presence of a hydrophobic membrane-spanning domain that favors retention in the plasma membrane, most mucins are secreted onto mucosal surfaces or secreted to become a component of saliva.
Special stains that are used for the evaluation of mucins, mucin-like molecules and other carbohydrate containing macromolecules remain in demand and are utilized frequently in the histology laboratory.
Mucus and Mucins. Mucus is a slimy material that coats many epithelial surfaces and is secreted into fluids such as saliva. It is composed chiefly of mucins and inorganic salts suspended in water.
Mucins' key characteristic is their ability to form gels; therefore they are a key component in most gel-like secretions, serving functions from lubrication to cell signalling to forming chemical barriers. They often take an inhibitory role.
Mucins are a family of large, heavily glycosylated proteins. Although some mucins are membrane bound due to the presence of a hydrophobic membrane-spanning domain that favors retention in the plasma membrane, the concentration here is on those mucins that are secreted on mucosal surfaces and saliva.
Mucins are a diverse family of densely glycosylated proteins. Mucin domains within the protein core are rich in threonine, serine and hydroxyproline enabling post-translational O-glycosylation. The highly glycosylated properties of mucins make them resistant to proteolysis and able to hold water, giving them the gel-like properties found in mucosal barriers.