Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) is funded by the Social Security tax fund, so individuals who qualify as disabled under the above criteria must also have sufficient work credits in order to qualify for payments. Basically, an individual must have paid Social Security taxes on his or her wages long enough to qualify for benefits. Generally, this means that claimants must have a fairly consistent work history, and have worked a minimum of five of the ten years previous to the onset of disability.
How to Qualify for Social Security Disability Insurance benefits (SSDI). You may qualify for SSDI benefits if you meet the following requirements: 1  You cannot do any substantial work due to a physically or mentally disabling medical condition. 2  You have a disability that has lasted or be expected to last at least 1 year, or result in death. 3  You are under the age of 65. If you do not qualify for SSDI because you have not worked 5 out of the last 10 years, you may still qualify to receive disability benefits through Supplemental Security Income. This program is available for those who are disabled but have not earned enough credits to qualify for disability insurance benefits.
The Social Security Administration has a Listing of Medical Impairments that automatically qualify you for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) or Supplemental Security Income (SSI), provided certain conditions are met. Basically, you qualify for Social Security disability benefits for any medical condition (or conditions) that... 1. Can be considered severe, 2. Prevents you from being able to work and make a living, and 3. Has lasted twelve months or more, or is expected to last twelve months or more
Benefits for People with Disabilities. Social Security Disability Insurance pays benefits to you and certain members of your family if you are insured, meaning that you worked long enough and paid Social Security taxes. Supplemental Security Income pays benefits based on financial need. When you apply for either program, we will collect medical and other information from you and make a decision about whether or not you meet Social Security's definition of disability.
If your medical condition is on the Listing of Impairments, then you are generally eligible to get Social Security disability benefits. If your medical condition is not on the list, it does NOT mean you can't get disability benefits. You may still qualify to get benefits under other SSA guidelines. Basically, you qualify for Social Security disability benefits for any medical condition (or conditions) that... 1. Can be considered severe, 2. Prevents you from being able to work and make a living, and 3. Has lasted twelve months or more, or is expected to last twelve months or more
Disabling Conditions. Contained on this page is a listing of disabling conditions that can be considered severe enough by the Social Security Administration (SSA) to qualify a person for Social Security Disability benefits. If you believe that you are disabled and would like to know more about applying for Social Security Disability with any of the following conditions, please click on the name of the disease for detailed information about symptoms, diagnoses, and SSA disability criteria for that particular condition.
Qualifying for Social Security Disability. In order to be eligible for Social Security Disability, individuals must fit several qualification criteria put forth by the Social Security Administration (SSA). Basically, an individual must have paid Social Security taxes on his or her wages long enough to qualify for benefits. Generally, this means that claimants must have a fairly consistent work history, and have worked a minimum of five of the ten years previous to the onset of disability.
The Social Security Administration (SSA) maintains a Listing of Medical Impairments (known as the blue book) that automatically qualify you for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) or Supplemental Security Income (SSI), provided certain conditions are met. 