Makemake (minor-planet designation 136472 Makemake) is a dwarf planet and perhaps the largest Kuiper belt object (KBO) in the classical population, with a diameter that is about 2/3 the size of Pluto. Makemake is currently 52.3 AU (7.82 × 10 9 km) from the Sun, almost as far from the Sun as it ever reaches on its orbit. Makemake follows an orbit very similar to that of Haumea: highly inclined at 29° and a moderate eccentricity of about 0.16.
View full size image. Makemake is a dwarf planet in the outer solar system. It was the fourth body identified as a dwarf planet, and was one of the bodies that caused Pluto to lose its status as a planet. Makemake is large enough and bright enough to be studied by a high-end amateur telescope. Makemake is one of the largest known objects in the outer solar system, just slightly smaller and dimmer than Pluto. Scientists think it is about two-thirds the size of the more well-known dwarf planet.
Makemake is a dwarf planet in the outer solar system. It was the fourth body identified as a dwarf planet, and was one of the bodies that caused Pluto to lose its status as a planet. Makemake is one of the largest known objects in the outer solar system, just slightly smaller and dimmer than Pluto. Scientists think it is about two-thirds the size of the more well-known dwarf planet.
For other uses, see Makemake. Makemake, formally designated (136472) Makemake, is the third-largest known dwarf planet in the Solar System and one of the two largest Kuiper belt objects (KBO) in the classical KBO population. Its diameter is roughly three-quarters that of Pluto. Brightness, size, and rotation Edit. Makemake is currently visually the second brightest Kuiper belt object after Pluto, having a March opposition apparent magnitude of 16.7 in the constellation Coma Berenices. This is bright enough to be visible using a high-end amateur telescope.
Nevertheless, Makemake's orbit is slightly farther from the Sun in terms of both the semi-major axis and perihelion. Its orbital period is nearly 310 years, more than Pluto's 248 years and Haumea's 283 years. Makemake is currently 52.3 AU (7.82 × 10 9 km) from the Sun, almost as far from the Sun as it ever reaches on its orbit. Makemake follows an orbit very similar to that of Haumea: highly inclined at 29° and a moderate eccentricity of about 0.16.
Makemake is the second furthest dwarf planet to the Sun and is the only one of the outer four dwarf planet to not have any moons. Mass: 3,000,000,000,000 billion kg (0.0005 x Earth). Makemake has no moons: Makemake is the largest of the Kuiper belt objects and the only one without satellites. Although we know its diameter to be about 2/3 that of Pluto, its mass can merely be estimated in the absence of nearby objects.
Makemake, along with Eris and Haumea, were responsible for Pluto's drop in status from planet to dwarf planet. Though Makemake and Haumea are just smaller than Pluto, Eris is more massive; the dwarf planet Ceres, found in the asteroid belt, is the smallest of the bunch. Makemake is one of the largest known objects in the outer solar system, just slightly smaller and dimmer than Pluto. Scientists think it is about two-thirds the size of the more well-known
After Eris and Pluto, Makemake is the third largest known dwarf planet. Along with fellow dwarf planets Pluto and Haumea, Makemake is located in the Kuiper Belt, a region outside the orbit of Neptune. Pluto and Makemake are the two brightest objects that have so far been discovered in the Kuiper Belt. It takes 310 Earth years for this dwarf planet to make one orbit around the Sun. Makemake was first observed in 2005 by a team of astronomers led by Michael Brown. Its codename was Easterbunny.
Makemake's 7.77 hr rotation period is in the typical range for Kuiper Belt objects, consistent with Makemake's apparent lack of a substantial satellite to alter its rotation through tides. Using extremely precise time-series photometry, we find that the rotation period of Makemake is 7.7710 ± 0.0030 hr, where the uncertainty is a 90% confidence interval. An alias period is detected at 11.41 hr, but is determined with approximately 95% confidence not to be the true period.