Approximately 30,000 species make up this Subphylum. Most are aquatic; of these, the majority are marine but some are found in fresh water. Members of the Subphylum include lobsters, crabs, crayfish, shrimp, copepods, barnacles, and several other groups of organisms. Crustaceans respire via gills. Like other arthropods, all have a hard but flexible exoskeleton. Most crustaceans are free-living, but some are sessile and a few are even parasitic. Most use their maxillae and mandibles to take in food.
Subphylum Myriapoda. Phylum Arthropoda/ Subphylum ??? -2 tagmata-all terrestrial (that are still exsisting) -no carapace (outter covering of head and thorax) -trachea and spiracles (tracheal system used for respiration) -malpighian tubules-two classes: cl. chilopoda, cl. The female will have a pointed and long segment at the end of her body.A female will also have longer legs but you won't notice the leg length unless you have both a male and female grasshopper to compare. The male will have a rounded segment that is not pointy and long at the end of his body.
Six subclasses are generally recognised, although many works have further included the ostracods among the Maxillopoda. Of the six groups, only Mystacocarida are entirely free-living; all the members of the Tantulocarida, Pentastomida and Branchiura are parasitic, and many of the Copepoda and Thecostraca are parasites. With the exception of some barnacles, maxillopodans are mostly small, including the smallest known arthropod, Stygotantulus stocki. They often have short bodies, with the abdomen reduced in size, and generally lacking any appendages. This may have arisen through paedomorphosis.
4 Limitations of being an arthropod Phylum Arthropoda: arthropods Subphylum Myriapoda: millipedes and centipedes Subphylum Chelicerata: spiders, scorpions, ticks, mites, horseshoe crabs Subphylum Crustacea: Crayfish, crabs, shrimps, barnacle, roly-poly Subphylum Hexapoda: insects and relatives. 10 Class Maxillopoda: barnacles and copepods • Copepods are small in size and lack abdominal appendages • Main component of zooplankton • ½ species are parasites of other marine animals • Most feed with their maxillae are filter feeders (but barnacles use their legs for filter feeding, .
Phylum Arthropoda. Members of Subphylum Crustacea (the Crustaceans) comprise a large group of arthropods. The group contains familiar popular marine food animals such as lobsters, crabs, shrimp. While mainly found in salt and freshwater environments, there are also terrestrial Crustacea such as woodlice and isopods. Crustaceans have three distinct body parts: head, thorax, and abdomen (also called a pleon).
Maxillopoda is a diverse class of crustaceans including barnacles, copepods and a number of related animals. With the exception of some barnacles, maxillopodans are mostly small, including the smallest known arthropod, Stygotantulus stocki. They often have short bodies, with the abdomen reduced in size, and generally lacking any appendages. This may have arisen through paedomorphosis.
(ostracods, copepods, barnacles) Maxillopods include barnacles, copepods, mystacocarids, tantulocarids, branchiurans, ostracods, and related groups. Most species are small. Most feed by means of their maxillae (rather than filter feeding using thoracic appendages to move water); barnacles, however, are an exception. 
3 Subphylum Mandibulata Crust.Myria .Insec Not clear how the mandibulates are relatedNo marine fossil record for Myriapoda & Insectaappear ~ 100 million years after Crustacea Subphylum Mandibulata Crust. Atelocerata vs Pancrustacea Fossils vs DNA& Morphology Giribet et al. 335 & 345 fig 14.7 Subphylum Mandibulata Mandibles-developed from limbs Subphylum Mandibulata Gene expression-Distal-less (Dll)Specifies distal part of appendageConfirmed all mandibulates use thegnathobase of the appendageSupports hypothesis of homology Popadiac et al.
There are 5 classes: Branchiopoda (fairy shrimp, water fleas) Cephalocarida (small crustaceans) Malacostraca (isopods, amphipods, krill, crabs, shrimp, lobsters) Maxillopoda (copepods, barnacles) Remipedia (small, recently discovered crustaceans) Subphylum Uniramia This is the largest of the subphyla. Crabs and Amphipods. Phylum Arthropoda This is the largest and most successful of the animal phyla, with over 1 000 000 species identified to date and an estimated 1 000 000 000 000 000 000 (1 quintillion) individuals alive today.
Maxillopoda is a diverse class of crustaceans which includes the barnacles, copepods and a number of related animals. It does not appear to be a monophyletic group, and no single character unites all the members. 