The overall survival after the whipple operation for pancreatic adenocarcinoma is about 20% at five years after surgery. Patients without spread of cancer into their lymph nodes may have up to a 40% survival. In up to 25% of patients, the stomach may remain paralyzed after the surgery and it may take up to 4 to 6 weeks for the stomach to adapt to the changes after the surgery to function normally. During this period you may not a tolerate a diet very well.
The pre assessment clinic. About 1 to 2 weeks before your surgery you will have an appointment at the hospital pre assessment clinic. This prepares you for your operation and makes sure you are in the best possible health before surgery. You may have some of the tests mentioned above if you haven't had them already. Before your surgery, you may have. 1  Blood tests to check your general health and kidney function. 2  A chest X-ray to check your lungs are healthy. 3  Tests to check your heart is healthy (ECG, MUGA scan and echocardiogram). 4  Tests to see how well your lungs work (Lung function tests).
You will be in the operating room for about 2-5 hours with at least another 1 - 2 hours in the recovery room afterwards. Your hospital stay will depend on the extent of your surgery and may be up to 7-10 days in length if the surgery is extensive. 1 The incision normally heals fully within a few weeks. 2  There is also swelling and a feeling of firmness under the incision that may last for a couple of months. 3  If you have surgical staples closing your wound, these will be removed by 14 days after your operation.
If your cancer has spread then your surgeon will not offer you these operations. Unfortunately, only about 10 to 20 in every 100 people with pancreatic cancer (10 to 20%) are able to have surgery. You can view and print the quick guides for all the pages in the treating pancreatic cancer section. So some of the digestive juices are able to get into your abdomen. Around 1 in 10 patients (10%) having major pancreatic surgery will have a fistula. If you get one, you will have a wound drain put in and have drugs to control the inflammation. The drains will be left in until the fistula dries up.
The Whipple operation was first described in the 1930s by Allan Whipple. In the 1960s and 1970s the mortality rate for the Whipple operation was very high. Up to 25% of patients died from the surgery. In up to 25% of patients, the stomach may remain paralyzed after the surgery and it may take up to 4 to 6 weeks for the stomach to adapt to the changes after the surgery to function normally. During this period you may not a tolerate a diet very well.