We provide stall boarding only on a temporary basis. Stall boarding is $250 per month and the owner furnishes the feed/hay. For travelers, we provide overnight stall or paddock (whichever is available) board for $20 per night. If you desire to feed your horses more than once each day, that is your option. You can come and go as you please. 
Boarding. Boarding a horse can cost anywhere from $100 per month for pasture board, with no inside stabling to close to $1000 per month in barns with stalls, individual turn-out, arenas and other amenities close to urban areas. Minimum cost per day to keep one horse is $5.01 per day or $1828.65 per year. The costs quickly increase with: 1  feeding more expensive concentrates or supplements. 2  you have unexpected veterinarian bills. 3  immunizing for other diseases such as West Nile Virus.
STABLING Training is an additional cost to consider. Many facilities offer reduced training fees for clients boarding with them for as little as $300 extra/month The average horse (not on pasture) eats 1.5 to 2.5% of his body weight per day in hay depending on body type and workload.
$175.00/month per horse. Full Boarding: Stall and cleaning, grain and hay (provided by owner) fed daily, daily turnout, fresh water, normal vet, farrier holdings, grooming, fly spray, banketing and fly masking (provided by owner). Cost will be according to type of services. 
The cost of keeping a horse varies widely depending on where you live and the level of service your stable provides. Simple pasture boarding can cost as little as $100 a month. However, stable boarding can cost $500 or more. If you plan to keep your horse on your own land, you’ll also need to consider whether the property is adequately equipped. First, you'll need about two acres of good pasture per horse for grazing.
Monthly boarding fees vary considerably, depending on the facility, location, and services offered. Typical monthly board costs average $500 per horse, but they can range from $100 to upwards of $1,500. 
Housing. If you don't own enough land to support a horse, boarding at a barn or stable is the next best option. A horse is assigned a stall and you're given access to trails, a pasture or arena. The cost of boarding averages $400 to $500 per month but can go as high as $1,200 to $2,500 in metropolitan areas. Services such as mucking out stalls, feeding and turning out your horse to pasture may not be included in the price. For those lucky enough to own sufficient land, there are still costs to consider. Providing bedding, maintaining pasture fences and paying for utilities will average about $300 per month. Moving your horse requires a trailer, which can range from $1,500 for a used trailer or $50,000 for a top-of-the-line model.
1 A simple boarding facility that allows your horse to graze in a field may charge $50 to $200 a month, while a premium boarding facility that offers training, one-on-one care, health services and more can vary anywhere from $400 to $1,000 per month. 1 Horse boarding will usually be charged per month and is going to range anywhere from $50 to as much as $1,200 a month. 2  Like boarding your cat or dog, the costs will go up based on the attention the horse needs
Please Contact Us for details. Boarding We can board your horse $ 450.00 per month for Full (Stall) board. Please ask us for details & discounts for multiple horses, stall availability or waiting list. Check out our Horse Boarding site and contact us directly with any questions. We currently offer only Full (Stall) Board with daily turnouts.