Wolf Garten RILL Comfort Grass Shears. These single-handed shears are ideal for edging and trimming lawns in places that are difficult to get at, such as along walls and fences. The non-stick coated wavy-edged blades allow for an endlessly precise cut-even after prolonged use. These same long blades are also pretty handy for efficiently cutting back perennials or deadheading fast-growing, soft plants. When a little more subtlety is required, however, a pair of hand shears (sometimes know as garden scissors) will prove a practical solution. Designed to be used in one hand, these smaller shears are perfect for tidying small herb gardens, flowerbeds and other areas where precision is indispensabl
Many shears have a rotatable cutting head, so that the grass along walls can be cut relatively easily. The disadvantage: most shears do not have a handle, so that you have to cut the grass on your knees or crouching. Simple grass shears are therefore less suitable for long lawn edges. It is much easier with Accu Grass Shears. The blades of these are motor-driven, at the press of a button, so that the grass is cut easily and conveniently. With the aid of an extension handle, the lawn edges can even be cut in an upright position, without tiresome bending down.
Photo 6: Pull the sharpener along the blade. If tightening the pivot nut and oiling the clippers failed to make your grass clippers cut better, remove the pivot nut. Separate the blades. Hold one of the blades on a wood block with the cutting edge up. Hedge shears and grass clippers. These blades can be sharp enough to easily handle yard tasks. Pruning shears, hedge shears and grass clippers function in a similar manner. The two sharp surfaces of the blades come in contact at the base and cut all the way to the tips. They literally shear the grass and twigs from the stem of the plant with a scissors action. These two opposing surfaces are finely ground at the factory to the precise angle that makes them the most efficient
Scissors are hand-operated shearing tools. They consist of a pair of metal blades pivoted so that the sharpened edges slide against each other when the handles (bows) opposite to the pivot are closed. Scissors are used for cutting various thin materials, such as paper, cardboard, metal foil, cloth, rope, and wire. A large variety of scissors and shears exist for specialized purposes. Hair-cutting shears and kitchen shears are functionally equivalent to scissors, but the larger implements tend to be called shears.
Garden Shears & Scissors. Using a good old-fashioned pair of hedge shears is the traditional way of cutting hedges and still the preferred method for many gardeners, particularly those shaping their shrubs or practicing topiary. These same long blades are also pretty handy for efficiently cutting back perennials or deadheading fast-growing, soft plants. When a little more subtlety is required, however, a pair of hand shears (sometimes know as garden scissors) will prove a practical solution. Designed to be used in one hand, these smaller shears are perfect for tidying small herb gardens, flowerbeds and other areas where precision is indispensable
By Gerardine. moray, United Kingdom. what do you use to edge your grass,do you use a strimmer or an edging shears. i usually use a strimmer but it is driving me mad as the line keeps breaking. Answers. I buy cheaper edging shears and just replace when they're blunt, which is ages, actually, if you're only cutting your own lawn with them. Mine last on average about 4 to 5 years, cutting lots of different lawns in that time.
Incidentally, grass shears cut the grass like scissors, so that it is cut off smoothly and remains nice and green. Trimmers, on the other hand, cut the grass with a filament, which frays the grass and turns the tips yellow more quickly. It is much easier with Accu Grass Shears. The blades of these are motor-driven, at the press of a button, so that the grass is cut easily and conveniently. With the aid of an extension handle, the lawn edges can even be cut in an upright position, without tiresome bending down.
Edging shears. A neatly edged lawn is an attractive feature in the garden, and edging shears make trimming easy. Push the soil away from the grass edge, and then use the shears like scissors—only the cutting blade should move, while the other blade remains static. Turfing iron. This useful tool is used to remove turf from existing lawns. After the square of turf has been cut, the turfing iron is used to slice underneath it, severing the grass roots. It has a sharp point for cutting and an angled handle to produce level pieces of turf.