Salmonella enterica serotype Arizonae is a rare cause of human infection known to leading to meningitis symptoms similar to those caused by other salmonella species. This is the first report of it as a cause of meningitis in a child under one month of age. Invasive salmonellosis in neonates is very rare, accounting for a very small proportion of all bacterial meningitis in neonates. The salmonella serotypes most often reported to cause neonatal meningitis include S. typhimurium, S. paratyphi B, and S. typhi [ 8 ].
It can cause meningitis with manifestations similar to meningitis caused by other salmonella species. It should be included in the differential diagnosis of Gram-negative bacillary meningitis, especially in immunocompromised children, neonates, and those with contacts with reptiles. Invasive salmonellosis in neonates is very rare, accounting for a very small proportion of all bacterial meningitis in neonates. The salmonella serotypes most often reported to cause neonatal meningitis include S. typhimurium, S. paratyphi B, and S. typhi [ 8 ].
Salmonella meningitis is a very rare form of meningitis caused by salmonella bacteria. In a few rare cases, an unusual form of salmonella meningitis has been transmitted to babies, pregnant women and immunodeficient adults by pet reptiles. This is more widely known in the US where pet reptiles are more popular.
Abstract. Background: Salmonella species now represent a leading cause of Gram-negative bacterial meningitis in the developing world. Various drugs have been used for the treatment of Salmonella meningitis over the past decades, but mortality, neurologic sequelae and relapse rates remain high. In this report we describe two children aged 8 and 9 months who presented within a week to our hospital with Salmonella meningitis
Those affected are mostly newborn babies, but cases may also occur in immunodeficient adults. Babies born prematurely, with low birth weight, or after prolonged labour have a higher risk of most forms of neonatal (newborn) meningitis. There are many kinds of Salmonella bacteria which often cause food-poisoning. Infection with Salmonella is very rarely life-threatening. In a few rare cases, an unusual form of salmonella meningitis has been transmitted to babies, pregnant women and immunodeficient adults by pet reptiles. This is more widely known in the US where pet reptiles are more popular.
Severe cases of Salmlonella food poisoning can cause a brain infection called meningitis. If a pregnant woman contracts a Salmonella infection, the baby can be born with or soon develop meningitis. Meningitis is an inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. The most common types of Salmonella-causing meningitis are: S. Havana, S. Typhimurium, S. Oranienbury, S. Typhi. Salmonella meningitis can lead to brain damage and death. The overall mortality is 38% in infants.
Overall, antibiotic regimes for treatment of Salmonella meningitis in children have not been as successful as those used to treat E. coli meningitis. 3 Antimicrobial agents used previously, either alone or in various combinations, have included chloramphenicol, ampicillin and co-trimoxazole. In another report, a considerably higher iv dosage of 30 mg/kg/day was used in infants aged 2 and 5 months with Salmonella meningitis. 9 The oral dosage of ciprofloxacin now recommended for general infections in children (other than those with cystic fibrosis) is 10–30 mg/kg/day in two divided doses.
In case reports of successful treatment of Salmonella meningitis in two neonates, ciprofloxacin was given iv at 10 mg/ kg/day 23 and 15 mg/kg/day 24 in two divided doses. In another report, a considerably higher iv dosage of 30 mg/kg/day was used in infants aged 2 and 5 months with Salmonella meningitis. 9 The oral dosage of ciprofloxacin now recommended for general infections in children (other than those with cystic fibrosis) is 10–30 mg/kg/day in two divided doses.
E. coli meningitis is often grouped with meningitis caused by other bacteria because the disease process, typical age and health problems of those affected, and the outcome are similar. Other such examples include: 1  Proteus. 2  Klebsiella. 3  Citrobacter. 4  Salmonella. 5  Pseudomonas. Usually these bacteria do no harm, but some uncommon strains can cause serious disease. The vast majority of cases of E. coli meningitis are caused by a disease-causing strain known as E. coli K1. Most cases of E. coli meningitis occur in newborn babies or babies under 3 months of age.