Jessica (originally Iessica, also Jesica, Jessicah or Jessika) is a female given name. The oldest written record of the name with its current spelling is found as the name of a character in Shakespeare 's play The Merchant of Venice, where it belongs to the daughter of Shylock. Iscah is the niece of Abraham. Jessica was the most popular female baby name throughout the 1980s and 1990s in the United States, with popularity waning starting in 1998 through the early 2000s and falling out of the Top 20 by 2004. It also rose to #1 in England and Wales in 2005, dropping to #3 in 2006.
Sunlen Miller and Alexis Leigh Serfaty were married Saturday evening at Rose Park in Washington. Emily Guthrie, an Episcopal priest, officiated. The bride, 32, is a national correspondent in Washington for CNN. He is the son of Gail F. Serfaty and Simon H. Serfaty of Washington. The groom’s mother retired as the director overseeing the operations of the diplomatic reception rooms at the State Department in Washington, and as the curator of the Blair House residence.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Sarfati (Hebrew: צרפתי ‎; also spelled Sarfatti, Sarphati, Serfaty, Sarfaty, Zarfati, Tsarfati, Tzarfati and Tzarfaty) is a Sephardic Jewish surname. It means French. This page or section lists people with the surname Sarfati. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
For Sunlen Miller and Alexis Serfaty, all roads lead back to Rose Park. They first met across the street from the small, green oasis that bridges East Georgetown and Dupont Circle. 
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Sunlen surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc. Find out where people with the family name Sunlen lived before coming to the United States. Using the Social Security Death Index, you can find out how long people with the family name Sunlen lived, as well as find information about specific Sunlen ancestors. The Social Security Death Index has records for over 70 million names; where you can find birth dates, death dates, addresses, and more.
Simon Serfaty serves as Senior Adviser of Europe Program of Center for Strategic and International Studies Inc. Dr. Serfaty is the First Holder of the Zbigniew Brzezinski Chair in Global Security and Geostrategy at CSIS. Dr. Serfaty served as the Director of the Europe Program at CSIS for more than 10 years. He serves as a Member of the Strategic Advisory Board at Institut francais français des relations. internationales
A version of this article appears in print on August 4, 2013, on page ST13 of the New York edition with the headline: Sunlen Miller, Alexis Serfaty. He is the son of Gail F. Serfaty and Simon H. Serfaty of Washington. The groom’s mother retired as the director overseeing the operations of the diplomatic reception rooms at the State Department in Washington, and as the curator of the Blair House residence.
Background on the History of the Jews in Morocco and North Africa. Legends relate that Hebrews from the Twelve Tribes arrived in North Africa in the time of King Solomon in order to bring back metals, especially gold, for the construction of the Temple. Apparently, Hebrews came by the 10th century BCE with the Phoenicians and also when the city of Carthage was founded in 814 BCE. Flavius Josephus relates that in the wake of the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE more Jews arrived and Titus settled several thousand in Carthage. In the years 87 and 115, resistance to the Romans broke out in Cyrenaica even before the Bar Kokhba Revolt in Eretz Israel.
It is believed that the surname may be linked to Rashi by way of his grandson Rabbeinu Tam, but the connection, although anchored in the Ketubot traditions has never been fully proven due to a seven generations gap in the genealogy after Jews were expelled from France by Philippe le Bel in 1306. This page or section lists people with the surname Sarfati. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.