Cook the kabobs in the oven for 20 to 30 minutes, turning every five to 10 minutes. Brush extra -- fresh -- marinade on the kabobs during the last five minutes of cooking. 1  Although your vegetables will almost certainly cook thoroughly in the 20- to 30-minute time frame, you’ll want to keep a close eye on your meats. 
Best Answer: if you have to cook them in the oven, keep the temp at 350 degrees for about 15-20 minutes (or until cooked through). Source(s): glambassist@sbcglobal.net · 7 years ago. Check them after 15 minutes and if not done, give them another 3-5 minutes. I recommend using steel skewers for the oven because it will cook the inside at the same time and allow you to shorten the cooking time and get a crisp outside and juicy inside product.
Preheat oven to 180°C. Place 1 tablespoon of the garlic butter on a large baking tray. Add the kebabs and bake, turning occasionally, for 25-30 minutes or until cooked. Melt 1 tablespoon of the garlic butter. Add the tomatoes and mushrooms and cook for 5 minutes, then add the beans and cook until just tender, adding extra garlic butter when needed.
The secret to juicy baked chicken breast? Bake for a short time at a high temperature. Baking for 30 minutes at 350 degrees will yield dry meat. But baking for just 20 minutes at 450 degrees will result in delightfully juicy baked chicken breast, every time. Baked Chicken Breast.
What you will learn: How to bake chicken. 1. Clean the chicken and preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. 2. Rub the chicken inside and out with herbs and spices.Then cover with aluminum foil. 3.Put the bird in the oven and cook for one hour.
If using a oven just place the shaped kebabs on a baking tray and bake them at 350 degree F for 20-25 minutes. You can apply dhungar method to oven baked kebab too. Just follow the above technique and secure the baking tray tightly from all the corners with aluminium foil. 
Best Answer: How-in the oven: Position an oven rack on the second to lowest level and preheat the oven to 425'F. Line a baking pan with parchment paper. Cut the breasts into lengthwise strips, about 1/4-inch thick. Flatten each strip with the blade of the knife. Pass each strip through a skewer; place into the prepared pan and then bake in preheated 450'F. for 5 minutes; turn over them over and continue baking them for 3 - 5 more minutes. The chicken strips will hardly take on any colour (brown); however, they should be firm to the touch and the juices run clear, not pink
Bake. Place the baking dish or roasting pan into the preheated oven, uncovered, and bake for 30 minutes, then reduce the heat by 50 degrees and bake for approximately another 30 minutes. 