When you load up mouse traps with a lot of bait, the pests can steal some of it without getting caught in the trap. A pea-size amount of mouse trap bait is just right-enough to attract mice, but not so much that they can eat it without springing the trap. 
Mouse trap, I guarantee, it's the craziest trap you'll ever see.. In a proper operation, the player turns the crank, which rotates a vertical gear, connected to a horizontal gear. As that gear turns, it pushes an elastic-loaded lever until it snaps back in place, hitting a swinging boot. A player's objective is to trap all of their opponent's mice using the game's Rube Goldberg-style mouse trap, which is built upon the board during the course of the game. The trap begins with a crank which turns a set of gears
How mouse traps work. Background The mousetrap is described as a device that is irreducibly complex“, meaning it cannot be made more simply and still function. At the same time, it is so simple and does its job so well that it gives the illusion of being a profound achievement. When mice visit your home or office at night, you do not have to buy snap-traps, glue-dishes, arsenic, or expensive cages to get rid of your unwelcome guests The home-made trap Paper towel tube BaitTable or counter Waste basketA mouse would make the net torque none zero, and the tube would rotate.
Once the mouse trap has been built, players turn against each other, attempting to trap opponents' mouse-shaped game pieces. A player's objective is to trap all of their opponent's mice using the game's Rube Goldberg-style mouse trap, which is built upon the board during the course of the game. The trap begins with a crank which turns a set of gear
A mousetrap is a specialized type of animal trap designed primarily to catch mice; however, it may also trap other small animals. Mousetraps are usually set in an indoor location where there is a suspected infestation of rodents. There are various types of mousetrap, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. The trap that is credited as the first patented lethal mousetrap was a set of spring-loaded, cast-iron jaws dubbed Royal No. 1. It was patented on 4 November 1879 by James M. Keep of New York, US patent 221,320
Use multiple traps. Set the trap perpendicular to the wall and point the trigger toward the wall. Don't set the trap parallel to the wall. If the mouse comes from the back side of the trap, it will send it flying off of the trap. Mice are very cautious, so baiting a trap that is unset will increase success. Set the trap after the bait has been taken once or twice. Always wear disposable rubber or plastic gloves when dealing with mice
If you're the proud possessor of a mouse stuck to a sticky trap, then you're stuck with the problem of putting the creature out of its misery. The DIY guys at Stack Exchange are here to help. The pest control company left a few glue traps in my garage and a mouse was captured by one of them. 