Think of a monomer as being a brick, and a polymer, or macromolecule, as being the whole brick wall composed of the building blocks. The brick wall is composed of smaller units-the bricks-just as a macromolecule is composed of monomer building blocks. Check out the table below for some examples of proteins in your body. Lipids are macromolecules that are made up of long chains of fatty acids, or carbon rings. Important lipids in your body include cholesterol, steroid hormones, triglycerides, and phospholipids.
They are typically composed of thousands or more atoms. The most common macromolecules in biochemistry are biopolymers (nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates and polyphenols) and large non-polymeric molecules (such as lipids and macrocycles). Macromolecule. Polymer molecule. A molecule of high relative molecular mass, the structure of which essentially. comprises the multiple repetition of units derived, actually or conceptually, from. molecules of low relative molecular mass.
According to the standard IUPAC definition, the term macromolecule as used in polymer science refers only to a single molecule. For example,a single polymeric molecule is appropriately described as a macromolecule or polymer molecule rather than a polymer, which suggests a substance composed of macromolecules. Because of their size, macromolecules are not conveniently described in terms of stoichiometry alone. The structure of simple macromolecules, such as homopolymers, may be described in terms of the individual monomer subunit and total molecular mass. Macromolecule. Polymer molecule. A molecule of high relative molecular mass, the structure of which essentially. comprises the multiple repetition of units derived, actually or conceptually, from. molecules of low relative
Noun. 1. macromolecule-any very large complex molecule; found only in plants and animals. supermolecule. molecule - (physics and chemistry) the simplest structural unit of an element or compound. organic compound-any compound of carbon and another element or a radical.
All of the trillions of cells that make up your body contain biological polymers, or macromolecules. Your cells are made up of proteins, lipids (or fats), carbohydrates, and nucleic acids. You will see examples of these biologic macromolecules in the next section. Check out the table below for some examples of proteins in your body. Lipids are macromolecules that are made up of long chains of fatty acids, or carbon rings. Important lipids in your body include cholesterol, steroid hormones, triglycerides, and phospholipids.
A biomolecule is any molecule that is present in living organisms, including large macromolecules such as proteins, carbohydrates, lipids, and nucleic acids, as well as small molecules such as primary metabolites, secondary metabolites, and natural products. 
Proteins are macromolecules made up of amino acid building blocks. There are thousands of proteins in organisms, and many are made up of several hundred amino acid monomers. Check out the table below for some examples of proteins in your body. Lipids are macromolecules that are made up of long chains of fatty acids, or carbon rings. Important lipids in your body include cholesterol, steroid hormones, triglycerides, and phospholipids. These lipids range in function from hormones, to cell membrane components, to fat storage unit
Macromolecule. Definition. noun, plural: macromolecules. A large complex molecule, such as nucleic acids, proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids, with relatively large molecular weight. Supplement. In biology, a macromolecule is a term used to contrast a micromolecule (which is smaller in size and in molecular weight). Macromolecules are usually used to refer to large biological polymers, such as nucleic acids and proteins, which are made up of small monomers linked together.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: A macromolecule is a molecule with a very large number of atoms. Macromolecules typically have more than 100 component atoms. Examples: Most polymers are macromolecules and many biochemical molecules are macromolecules. Proteins, DNA, RNA and plastics are all macromolecules. Definition: A macromolecule is a molecule with a very large number of atoms. Macromolecules typically have more than 100 component atoms. Examples: Most polymers are macromolecules and many biochemical molecules are