Osteomyelitis is infection in the bone. Osteomyelitis can occur in infants, children, and adults. Different types of bacteria typically affect the different age groups. In children, osteomyelitis most commonly occurs at the ends of the long bones of the arms and legs, affecting the hips, knees, shoulders, and wrists. 1 Osteomyelitis is an infection of bone. 2  Osteomyelitis can occur in any age group. 3  Treatment of osteomyelitis can include antibiotics, splinting, or surgery. 4  A delay in diagnosis or treatment of osteomyelitis can lead to permanent deficits.
Osteomyelitis. Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone. It can be caused by a variety of microbial agents (most common in staphylococcus aureus) and situations, including: 1  An open injury to the bone, such as an open fracture with the bone ends piercing the skin.
In this article. Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone, a rare but serious condition. Bones can become infected in a number of ways: Infection in one part of the body may spread through the bloodstream into the bone, or an open fracture or surgery may expose the bone to infection. 
Definition. Osteomyelitis is an infection in a bone. Infections can reach a bone by traveling through the bloodstream or spreading from nearby tissue. Infections can also begin in the bone itself if an injury exposes the bone to germs
Causes. Most cases of osteomyelitis are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Germs can enter a bone in a variety of ways, including: 1  The bloodstream
Osteomyelitis means infection of the bone or bone marrow; inflammation of the bone due to infection. Osteomyelitis sometimes occurs as a complication of injury or surgery. In some cases, the infection may get into bone tissue from the bloodstream. 1 A bone fracture, some injury, or a complication of orthopedic surgery may result in a bone infection. 2  The bone infection may be caused by a pre-existing condition, such as diabetes. 3  In such cases, the supply of blood to the bone is undermined; specifically white blood cells (which fight infection).
Introduction. Osteomyelitis is the medical term for a bone infection, usually caused by bacteria. Osteomyelitis most commonly affects the long bones in the legs, but other bones, such as those in the back or arms, can also be affected. Symptoms of osteomyelitis may include: 1  a high temperature (fever) of 38C (100.4F) or above.
What is osteomyelitis? Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone, caused by bacteria or fungi. Symptoms include bone pain, swelling, fever, aches and pains, and headache. The infection may occur at areas near the bone where there was trauma, such as a skin ulcer, surgery, or other injuries. 