Example sentences. 1  Make sure you try the smoked haddock rarebit with creamed leeks and smoked bacon. 2  Here, they are matched with a smoked haddock rarebit for an ultra-tasty dish. 3  Meanwhile, to make the rarebit, very gently melt the cheese with the milk and stout in a heavy-based pan. 
Jiel Beaumadier. To the unfamiliar ear, Welsh rarebit would instill anything but hunger. But that, we suspect, is the United Kingdom's genius ploy to keep this dish of bread and melted cheese all to themselves. Never before has a food been given a less appropriate (read, completely unappetizing) name. 
Directions. In a medium saucepan over low heat, melt the butter and whisk in the flour. Cook, whisking constantly for 2 to 3 minutes, being careful not to brown the flour. Whisk in mustard, Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper until smooth. Add beer and whisk to combine. Pour in cream and whisk until well combined and smooth. Gradually add cheese, stirring constantly, until cheese melts and sauce is smooth; this will take 4 to 5 minutes.
The word rarebit is a corruption of rabbit, Welsh rabbit being first recorded in 1725 and the variant Welsh rarebit being first recorded in 1785 by Francis Grose. The entry in Merriam-Webster 's Dictionary of English Usage is Welsh rabbit, Welsh rarebit and states: When Francis Grose defined Welsh rabbit in A Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue in 1785, he mistakenly indicated that rabbit was a corruption of rarebit.
Welsh rarebit Welsh rarebitWelsh rarebit, Welsh rabbit, or more infrequently, rarebit is traditionally a savory sauce made from a mixture of cheese and various other ingredients and served hot over toasted bread. 
The following recipe is a basic rarebit mix, but the application is definitely a contemporary version of the toasted sandwich. You can add various flavourings to the rarebit base such as herbs, fresh chilli, garlic, cooked leeks, chopped ham, and crispy bacon or chopped sun-dried tomatoes. To make the rarebit: Melt the butter in a pan, add the grated cheese and stir over a low heat until melted. Pour in the ale or milk, add the mustard and any other flavouring you wish. Season to taste. Bring the mixture up to near boiling point, and then remove from the heat
In a small saucepan melt the butter and make a roux with the flour. Cook for a couple of minutes, stirring to prevent the roux from burning. Stir in the warm beer by degrees, until you have a thick but smooth sauce. Add the grated cheese and stir until melted. Preparation method. In a small saucepan melt the butter and make a roux with the flour. Cook for a couple of minutes, stirring to prevent the roux from burning. Stir in the warm beer by degrees, until you have a thick but smooth sauce. Add the grated cheese and stir until melted. You should now have a thick paste.
You may stir in a little mustard; when it is enough lay it on the bread, just brown it with a hot shovel. Served with an egg on top, a Welsh rarebit is known as a buck rabbit or a golden buck. Kentucky Hot Brown is a variant that adds turkey and bacon to the traditional rarebit recipe. Welsh rarebit blended with tomato (or tomato soup) is known as Blushing Bunny. The entry in Merriam-Webster 's Dictionary of English Usage is Welsh rabbit, Welsh rarebit and states: When Francis Grose defined Welsh rabbit in A Classical Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue in 1785, he mistakenly indicated that rabbit was a corruption of rarebit.