Ishika is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced I-shi-ka. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3594 in baby name popularity for girls with 43 occurrences. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name.
Do not choose a baby first name based on these short name descriptions. Your baby's name must be in harmony with: your baby's birthdate (inner potential) and your family's surname (last name) It is essential that you understand the qualities of your family name. Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details.
Personality (Persona) Number : Soul Urge Number : We added Numerology Calculation to make it more interactive.The information provided here is not recommended by babynology.com. It is a matter of an individual's belief.We also request you not to send us any request/query regarding numerology. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
The baby boy or baby girl name Ashwika comes from the Hindu word which means, Goddess Santhoshi Maa.. Sanskrit word which means, ashw means horse so ashwika means a girl as fast as a horse.. Sanskrit word which means, godesss santoshi mata.. Sanskrit word which means, Goddess Santhoshi Matha.. Numerological Meaning (For Entertainment Purposes Only). People with this name tend to be very inspired, intuitive, and creative. Their aim is to improve the world and can be quite altruistic.
I was looking for the definition of my first name when I ran across your website, and figured why not give it a try. I was astounded to find just how accurate the profile was from my first and nicknames all the way down to the family name and what kind of atmosphere is found in our home which was right on. Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details.
Birthday blues. There are billions of humans present on the earth, this means the day your baby born, there were 9 million people who were born on the same day. Hence, your baby shares his or her birthday with about 9 million other people. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
Meaning of name Ashwika, Origin of name Ashwika, Personality of name Ashwika, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Ashwika and adorable Baby Photos of Ashwika. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Ashwika is lucky! 
Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Ashwika in Hindu origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
Show similar names Show variant names. Name Ashwika generally means Goddess Santhoshi Mata, Name Ashwika is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Name Ashwika belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) . 
[ 3 syll. as-hi-ka, ash-ika ] The baby girl name Ashika is pronounced aa-SH IY-Kaa- †. Ashika is of Sanskrit origin and it is predominantly used in the Indian language. Ashika is a variant of Asika (Indian). Ashika is not frequently used as a baby girl name. 