The Saudi riyal (Arabic: ريال riyāl; ISO 4217 code: SAR) is the currency of Saudi Arabia. It is abbreviated as ر.س or SR (Saudi Riyal) . It is subdivided into 100 Halala s (Arabic: هللة ‎ Halalah) . 
0.16677. *Pegged: 1 USD = 3.75000 SAR. The Saudi riyal has been the currency of Saudi Arabia since the country came in to being and was the currency of Hejaz before Saudi Arabia was created. In June 1986, the riyal was officially pegged to the US Dollar at a fixed exchange rate of 1 U.S. dollar = 3.75 riyals
Convert SAR to EUR using our currency converter with live foreign exchange rates. On this page convert SAR to EUR using live currency rates as of 14/10/2015 08:59. Includes a live currency converter, handy conversion table, last 7 days exchange rate history and some live Saudi Riyal to Euros charts. 
More Currencies. The Saudi Riyal, which is the official currency of Saudi Arabia, has the ISO 4217 Code of SAR. The corresponding ISO-4217 Code Number for SAR is 682. The SAR ISO code has a currency exponent of 2
Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Saudi Arabian Riyals and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Saudi Arabian Riyal is the currency in Saudi Arabia (SA, SAU). The Saudi Arabian Riyal is also known as the Saudi Arabian Rial. The symbol for SAR can be written SRls, and ﷼. The Saudi Arabian Riyal is divided into 100 halalat. The exchange rate for the Saudi Arabian Riyal was last updated on October 9, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund
*Pegged: 1 USD = 3.75000 SAR. The Saudi riyal has been the currency of Saudi Arabia since the country came in to being and was the currency of Hejaz before Saudi Arabia was created. In June 1986, the riyal was officially pegged to the US Dollar at a fixed exchange rate of 1 U.S. dollar = 3.75 riyals. 
Saudi Arabia, Riyal. The Saudi Arabian Riyal is the currency of Saudi Arabia. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Saudi Arabia Riyal exchange rate is the INR to SAR rate. The currency code for Riyals is SAR, and the currency symbol is ﷼. Below, you'll find Saudi Arabian Riyal rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take SAR rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. 
DEFINITION of 'SAR (Saudi Riyal)'. The currency abbreviation the Saudi riyal (SAR), the currency for Saudi Arabia. The Saudi riyal is made up of 100 halala or 20 ghirsh, and is often presented with the symbol SR. The Saudi riyal is pegged to the U.S. dollar at about 3.75 SAR