Natural remedies. In less severe cases, natural remedies can be used to help treat a thickened toenail. A mixture of tea tree oil and olive oil applied to the nail can help soften the nail so it becomes less thick. Apply the mixture to the toenail with a cotton ball twice a day until the nail returns to normal. Soak feet in vinegar. You can also soak the feet in vinegar for 20-25 minutes a day to help soften them. Fill a tub with warm water and add 3-4 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar to soak your nails. After the feet have dried, gently buff away the top layer of the nail that has loosened from the treatment. 
1 Hold the bit of cotton in the tweezers by the corner of the toenail that is ingrown. 2  Use something pointy to push the cotton under your toenail into the corner. 3  Don't push too hard or you will hurt yourself! 4  The piece of cotton should form a little ball under your toenail in the corner. Putting a small piece of cotton between your toenail and the skin should keep the ingrown toenail from coming back. 1  From either the cotton round or the cotton ball, remove a small piece of cotton with the tweezers. 2 
1 To make the toenails soft, soak your feet in warm water for 10 minutes. 2  If the water is soapy, it is more preferable. 3  Clean your feet and toes with a towel. 4  Your feet and nail should be completely dry before you cut your nails. 5  However, avoid softening them too much to prevent nail bed injury while cutting. Cut from one side of the nail and cut it straight to the other side. Cutting the nail in straight line prevents the nail edge to burrow inside the skin and develop ingrown nail. Depending on the thickness of the toenail, you may have to select the toenail clipper.
Toenail clippers are useful to cut the thick nails. Cut from one side of the nail and cut it straight to the other side. Cutting the nail in straight line prevents the nail edge to burrow inside the skin and develop ingrown nail. Depending on the thickness of the toenail, you may have to select the toenail clipper.
You can do this process two times a day. You can clip your toenails and file off the top layers before applying the vinegar. You can also mix an equal amount of white vinegar and water and have your feet soak into the mixture. You have all the stuff to use in order to soften thick toenails. If they are already sufficiently soft, you can stop soaking. Step # 3: Apply softening cream. Upon removing your feet from the water, pat them dry with a towel. Apply a softening cream to your toenails as wells.
Here are steps on how to soften thick toenails. Soften Thick Toenails. Step # 1: Prepare the tub. Pour a gallon of warm water into the bathtub, deep basin or dishpan. Put 2 ½ tablespoons of table salt for each gallon of warm water in the bathtub. Step # 2: Soak your feet into the mixture you have prepared. Soak your feet for around 10-30 minutes depending on how thick your toenails are. The thicker your toenails, the longer they should be soaked. If they are already sufficiently soft, you can stop soaking. Step # 3: Apply softening cream. Upon removing your feet from the water, pat them dry with a towel. Apply a softening cream to your toenails as wells. You can now cut your toenails while they are still soft
Soak your feet in a tub or bowl of warm water. Check if the temperature is comfortable for you with your hand like you would a regular bath. Add 1 tbsp. of Epsom salts. Pedicures and Foot care says some essential oils preferred by males are sandalwood, patchouli and vanilla. Soak for about 15 to 20 minutes until nails and feet feel soft. Soften nails with cuticle oil, olive oil or any edible oil and massage into each nail in a circular motion with your hand, especially around the edges. Leave on for about 10 minutes or until your nails are soft, then wipe off with towel or a bit of warm water, leaving a bit of oil still on to soften your feet all day. Safe Natural Cures recommends if you have thick, hard toenails, smear them with lotion and wear fresh, clean, breathable socks to bed to soften nails
To make thick, hard toenails easier to trim, smear a lot of lotion on the toe nails and wear socks to bed the night before clipping them. This will soften the nails. To soften your toenails further, soak them for 20 minutes in very warm water before clipping them. After you towel off, gently stroke the surface of the thickened part of your toenail with an emery board. This filing may thin the nail by taking off upper layers. 
4. White Vinegar – Soften cuticles by filling a bowl with White Vinegar and soaking your fingers in it for five minutes. Also, fingernail polish will adhere longer to nails that have been soaked in vinegar. 5. Marshmallows – Polish your toenails by placing a marshmallow between each toe before painting them. 1. Baking Soda – To whiten fingernails & toenails, add three TBL baking soda to 1/2 cup warm water. Soak your nails in the solution for 15 minutes. Then softly brush across each nail with a nailbrush. 2. Bounce – Rubbing your fingernails with a Bounce dryer sheet removes nail polish without nail polish remover.