As a type of antibiotic, Bactrim ® (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim) is approved to treat the following conditions: 1  Urinary tract infections (UTIs), such as bladder infections. 2  Ear infections. 3  Acute worsening of chronic bronchitis. 4  Shigellosis (a form of dysentery). 5  Traveler's diarrhea. 1 Urinary tract infections (UTIs), such as bladder infections. 2  Ear infections. 3  Acute worsening of chronic bronchitis. 4  Shigellosis (a form of dysentery). 5  Traveler's diarrhea. 6  A certain type of pneumonia known as Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia.
13 Reviews. Bactrim is the brand name of the generic antibiotic sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim (sometimes called co-trimoxazole). The drug is a combination of two antibiotics: It's one part trimethoprim (a synthetic drug), and five parts sulfamethoxazole (a sulfonamide drug).
What BACTRIM is used for. BACTRIM contains the active ingredients sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, also known as co-trimoxazole. BACTRIM is used to treat infections in different parts of the body, caused by bacteria. BACTRIM belongs to a group of medicines called antibiotics. There are many different types of medicines used to treat bacterial infections. Sulfamethoxazole in BACTRIM belongs to a group of medicines known as sulfonamides. Trimethoprim belongs to a group of medicines known as the benzylpyrimidines
This medication is a combination of two antibiotics: sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. It is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections (such as middle ear, urine, respiratory, and intestinal infections). It is also used to prevent and treat a certain type of pneumonia (pneumocystis-type). 
Bactrim ® (sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim) is a prescription antibiotic approved to treat a variety of different infections. In addition to treating infections, it is also approved to prevent one particular infection, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, in people with a weakened immune system. Bactrim contains two different antibiotics, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Sulfamethoxazole belongs to a group of drugs known as sulfonamides (sulfa drugs). Trimethoprim does not belong to a specific class of medications. These two antibiotics work in different but similar ways
Descriptions. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim combination is used to treat infections such as urinary tract infections, middle ear infections (otitis media), bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, and shigellosis (bacillary dysentery). 
Bactrim works against bacteria in the following types of infections: 1  Urinary tract infections (UTIs) caused by E. coli, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Morganella morganii, Proteus mirabilis, and Proteus vulgaris. The drug is a combination of two antibiotics: It's one part trimethoprim (a synthetic drug), and five parts sulfamethoxazole (a sulfonamide drug).
Bactrim is also sometimes prescribed for other types of bacterial pneumonia, for acne, and for preventing urinary tract infections. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) first approved Bactrim in 1973. The drug is made by Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. The drug is a combination of two antibiotics: It's one part trimethoprim (a synthetic drug), and five parts sulfamethoxazole (a sulfonamide drug).
Bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) DS is a combination of two antibiotics, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Bactrim is available as a generic drug under assorted names (for example, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, co-trimoxazole). Bactrim is used to treat urinary tract infections, acute otitis media, bronchitis, Shigellosis, Pneumocystis pneumonia, traveler's diarrhea, methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), and other bacterial infections susceptible to this antibiotic.