BRCA testing is a genetic test that looks at the sequence or code of the BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 genes. Changes or mutations in the genetic code indicate increased cancer risks. The test can be performed on a blood or saliva sample. It takes about three weeks to get results. A positive test result in BRCA1 or BRCA2 means that the person has a genetic mutation that increases cancer risk. A positive BRCA1 result gives a woman a 60% to 80% lifetime risk of breast cancer and a 30% to 45% lifetime risk of ovarian cancer.
The BRCA gene test is offered only to people who are likely to have an inherited mutation, based on personal or family history, or who have specific types of breast cancer. The BRCA gene test isn't routinely performed on women at average risk of breast and ovarian cancers. Having a BRCA gene mutation is uncommon. Inherited BRCA gene mutations are responsible for about 5 percent of breast cancers and about 10 to 15 percent of ovarian cancers. From a BRCA gene test, you learn whether you carry an inherited BRCA gene mutation and receive an estimate of your personal risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
Breast Cancer (BRCA) Gene Test. Guide. A breast cancer (BRCA) gene test is a blood test to check for specific changes (mutations) in genes that help control normal cell growth. Finding changes in these genes, called BRCA1 and BRCA2, can help determine your chance of developing breast cancer and ovarian cancer. 
In fact, because of the increased risk of a second breast cancer among BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers, some doctors recommend that women with early-onset breast cancer and those whose family history is consistent with a mutation in one of these genes have genetic testing when breast cancer is diagnosed. BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutation testing can give several possible results: a positive result, a negative result, or an ambiguous or uncertain result. A positive test result indicates that a person has inherited a known harmful mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2 and, therefore, has an increased risk of developing certain cancers.
The BRCA gene test is a blood test that uses DNA analysis to identify harmful changes (mutations) in either one of the two breast cancer susceptibility genes — BRCA1 and BRCA2. Inherited BRCA gene mutations are responsible for about 5 percent of breast cancers and about 10 to 15 percent of ovarian cancers. From a BRCA gene test, you learn whether you carry an inherited BRCA gene mutation and receive an estimate of your personal risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer.
Of the genes linked with breast cancer, BRCA1 and BRCA2 are the most well-understood. When a person is found to have a mutation in one of these genes, there are special recommendations for breast cancer screening, risk-lowering options and care. So, genetic testing for BRCA1/2 mutations can affect a person’s medical care.
The absence of a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation means that the person tested is not in the high risk group for breast and/or ovarian cancer related to the BRCA gene. The person's risk of developing either of these cancers is the same as that of the general population. Genetic testing for just BRCA1 or BRCA2 will only detect mutations in these two genes; therefore, if a mutation is present in another gene known to cause an increased risk for breast cancer, BRAC1 / BRCA2 testing will not detect it.
1 BRCA gene testing, also known as BRACAnalysis, is a blood test that helps evaluate a person’s risk for developing certain types of breast cancer. 2  The test evaluates two genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, called breast cancer susceptibility genes. If I am BRCA positive what should I do? 1  In patients with BRCA1 mutations the lifetime risk of breast cancer ranges between 50-87% and the lifetime risk of ovarian cancer is between 20-45%.
1 BRCA testing does not detect breast cancer, it helps asses a patient’s risk of developing breast or ovarian cancer in the future. 2  5% of all breast cancers and 10% of all ovarian cancers are attributable to BRCA mutations. If I am BRCA positive what should I do? 1  In patients with BRCA1 mutations the lifetime risk of breast cancer ranges between 50-87% and the lifetime risk of ovarian cancer is between 20-45%.
Mutations to either breast cancer gene — BRCA1 or BRCA2 — significantly increase your risk of breast cancer and ovarian cancer when compared with the cancer risk of a woman without a BRCA gene mutation. Men with inherited BRCA gene mutations also face an increased risk of breast cancer. 