The Treaty of Versailles was created by Woodrow Wilson of United Stated, David Lloyd George, Georges Clemenceau, and Vittorio Emanuele Orlando.     Answer   France … with Clemenceau, UK with Lloyd George and USA with Woodrow Wilson. + 10 others found this useful. The countries 'created', revived or endorsed by the post-World War 1 Peace Settlement were:   # Czechoslovakia (Bohemia, Moravia, Slovakia, Ruthenia)  # Yugoslovia (Serbia … , Croatia, Slovenia)  # The revival of Poland was endorsed.
On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. For the Allies, the treaty had created a just peace which weakened Germany, secured the French border against attack and created an organisation to ensure future world peace, to be called the League of Nations. Yet the backlash in Germany against the Versailles ‘Diktat’ was enormous.
The Treaty of Versailles (1919) was the peace treaty which officially ended World War I between the Allied and Associated Powers and Germany. The countries 'created', revived or endorsed by the post-World War 1 Peace Settlement were:   # Czechoslovakia (Bohemia, Moravia, Slovakia, Ruthenia)  # Yugoslovia (Serbia … , Croatia, Slovenia)  # The revival of Poland was endorsed.
The Treaty of Versailles was a peace treaty between the five nations, France, Germany, Britain, Austria-Hungary and the United States after World War I. The League was never taken seriously, even though it was created to make sure Versailles was respected. The treaty failed to keep peace in the end, and was a reason for Nazi Germany and Adolf Hitler to win the support of the poorer Germans to get rid of the chains of Versailles, leading to World War II.
Answer by Joncey. Confidence votes 58.0K. The Treaty of Versailles was created by Woodrow Wilson of United Stated, David Lloyd George, Georges Clemenceau, and Vittorio Emanuele Orlando. France with Clemenceau, UK with Lloyd George and USA with Woodrow Wilson. The Treaty of Versailles was one of the peace treaties at the end  of World War I. It ended the war between Germany and the Allied  Powers. It was signed on June 28, 1919, e … xactly five years after  the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand, one of the events  that triggered the start of the war.
The Treaty of Versailles, with its provisions of reparations, lost territory, military restrictions, Rhineland's occupation, and the League of Nations, was signed, sealed, and delivered. The treaty's major players, the Big Three, Woodrow Wilson, David Lloyd George, and Georges Clemenceau, had gone home. 1 The League of Nations-The treaty created the League of Nations as an international organization to maintain world peace in the future by mediating disputes between nations. 2  It would also tackle other global issues like drug trafficking, world health, and labor