Last Updated: Topic: Waterproofing. Bathrooms are the major wet area in the house and it is important that the bathroom is correctly waterproofed in order to reduce the risk of structural damage occurring as a result of dampness, water leaks, or condensation. These requirements include: 1  waterproofing the full floor within the shower recess. 2  at least 100mm over the hob or step down onto the bathroom floor should be waterproofed. 3  at least 150mm up the walls inside the shower walls needs to
Waterproofing is one of the first steps to take place when a bathroom is being built. It involves installing a waterproof barrier around the walls and floor in your bathroom to protect the structure of the house from the moisture. You will need a qualified and licensed waterproofer to waterproof your bathroom. While you can get a tradesperson who specialises exclusively in waterproofing, in some instances other tradespeople may be licensed or certified waterproofers too. Plumbers, for example, are often qualified waterproofers as well.
How To Waterproof A Shower in 12 Steps. One of the most important ways you can protect the structure of your bathroom is waterproofing. There are actually several steps involved that can help you waterproof your shower and protect your bathroom and the overall value of your house. Give your bathroom the attention it needs now and you will save time and money in the long run.
1 Bathroom walls should be waterproofed to a height of 150mm. 2  If the bathroom floor contains or is made of timber or is on the 2nd floor or higher, it must be thoroughly waterproofed. 3  The area over the shower enclosure step and down to the floor must be waterproofed to a height of 100mm. If waterproofing is part of their service, make sure they hold a valid waterproofer's license if needed and issue a certificate of compliance upon completion of the job. Bathroom waterproofing can cost as little as $35 per square metre, but that is the low end of the scale. In general, professional waterproofing costs between $500 and $750 for an average bathroom. If the waterproofing is done in more than one bathroom or as part of a complete bathroom renovation, the cost may be lower
1 The walls need to be waterproofed up to 150mm. 2  If the bathroom floor is made of or contains wood or if the bathroom is on the second story or higher, the whole floor must be waterproofed. 3  Over the step down to the floor should be waterproofed to 100mm. You will need a qualified and licensed waterproofer to waterproof your bathroom. While you can get a tradesperson who specialises exclusively in waterproofing, in some instances other tradespeople may be licensed or certified waterproofers too. Plumbers, for example, are often qualified waterproofers as well.
How high and wide walls and floors will need to be waterproofed depends very much on what’s being waterproofed, and on the other materials that are being used in that area. Shower recesses, for example, normally require waterproofing to a height of 1800mm. How far along the wall and floor the waterproofing membrane needs to extend will depend on things like: 1  the size of the shower stall.
Bathrooms are, by nature, wet spaces. But you want to be sure that water doesn’t leak through walls and cause mold or other damage. To avoid leaks and excess moisture build-up, take care to waterproof your bathroom wall, floor and ceiling. Walls. Behind the shower is breeding ground for mold, mildew and rot. Be sure to apply a moisture barrier before installing your finished wall. This will keep water droplets from reaching the wall material