EMP. The letters spell burnt out computers and other electrical systems and perhaps even a return to the dark ages if it were to mark the beginning of a nuclear war. But it doesn't need to be that way. Once you understand EMP, you can take a few simple precautions to protect yourself and equipment from it. In fact, you can enjoy much of the high tech life style you've come accustomed to even after the use of a nuclear device has been used by ter-rorists--or there is an all-out WWIII. Another false concept is that EMP out of the blue will fry your brain and/or body the way lightning strikes do. In the levels created by a nuclear weapon, it would not pose a health hazard to plants, animals, or man PROVIDED it isn't concentrated.
Below is a detailed write up about EMP (Electro-Magnetic Pulse) and how to protect yourself from it. EMP. The letters spell burnt out computers and other electrical systems and perhaps even a return to the dark ages if it were to mark the beginning of a nuclear war. But it doesn’t need to be that way. Once you understand EMP, you can take a few simple precautions to protect yourself and equipment from it. In fact, you can enjoy much of the “high tech” life style you’ve come accustomed to even after the use of a nuclear device has been used by terrorists–or there is an all-out WWIII
Protecting Yourself from EMP. (1) the equipment inside the box does NOT touch the metal container (plastic, wadded paper, or cardboard can all be used to insulate it from the metal) and (2) the metal shield is continuous without any gaps between pieces or extra-large holes in it. © 1989 by Duncan Long EMP. The letters spell burnt out computers and other electrical systems and perhaps even a return to the dark ages if it were to mark the beginning of a nuclear war. But it doesn't need to be that way. In such a case, the gamma radiation released during the flash cycle of the weapon would react with the upper layer of the earth's atmosphere and strip electrons free from the air molecules, producing electromagnetic radiation similar to broad-band radio waves (10 kHz-100 MHz) in the process.
Following an EMP, telephones, cell phones, and the internet will be a thing of the past. Two way radios will be a valuable tool for a few people. Learn how to protect your two way radios from the effects of an EMP as well as a communications system for re-connecting with loved ones. In sum, EMP refers to the electromagnetic radiation that can be caused from an explosion (in the aforementioned example, a nuclear explosion) or a widely fluctuating magnetic field.
Protecting Yourself from EMP. The common way of protecting yourself from the results of EMP is to use a Faraday cage. This is based upon two things: the fact that metals are great conductors of electricity and that electromagnetic waves are attracted to metal. When they encounter it, they are stopped by that metal
When you wrap your electronic device, it’s important to prevent it from touching the foil. Otherwise, it’s like making an antenna for the EMP to get right to the item you’re trying to protect. You can protect this by wrapping the device in paper, wax paper, an envelope or cardboard box. Whichever works best for whatever you’re wrapping in foil.
The frequencies for EMP range from approximately AM radio to approximately FM radio (actually, EMP frequencies have a much broader range, but the AM/FM radio comparison is close enough). AM signals go as low as 540 kHz and the FM radio band stops at 108 MHz. Don’t worry if those frequencies don’t mean anything to you. Otherwise, it’s like making an antenna for the EMP to get right to the item you’re trying to protect. You can protect this by wrapping the device in paper, wax paper, an envelope or cardboard box. Whichever works best for whatever you’re wrapping in foil.
The letters spell burnt out computers and other electrical systems and perhaps even a return to the dark ages if it were to mark the beginning of a nuclear war. But it doesn't need to be that way. Once you understand EMP, you can take a few simple precautions to protect yourself and equipment from it. In fact, you can enjoy much of the high tech life style you've come accustomed to even after the use of a nuclear device has been used by ter-rorists--or there is an all-out WWIII. 