The fundamental types of tissues in animals are epithelial, nerve, connective, muscle, and vascular tissues whereas in plants, they are the meristematic (apical meristem and cambium), protective (epidermis and cork), fundamental (parenchyma, collenchyma and sclerenchyma) and vascular (xylem and phloem) tissues. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tissue (Noun). Thin, woven, gauze-like fabric. tissue (Noun). A sheet of absorbent paper, especially one that is made to be used as tissue paper, toilet paper or a handkerchief. tissue (Noun). Absorbent paper as material. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tissue (noun). part of an organism consisting of an aggregate of cells having a similar structure and function. tissue, tissue paper (verb). a soft thin (usually translucent) paper. weave, tissue (verb).
• TISSUE (noun). The noun TISSUE has 2 senses: 1. part of an organism consisting of an aggregate of cells having a similar structure and function. 2. a soft thin (usually translucent) paper. Familiarity information: TISSUE used as a noun is rare. • TISSUE (verb). The verb TISSUE has 1 sense: 1. create a piece of cloth by interlacing strands of fabric, such as wool or cotton. Familiarity information: TISSUE used as a verb is very rare. Synonyms: tissue paper; tissue. Hypernyms (tissue is a kind of...): paper (a material made of cellulose pulp derived mainly from wood or rags or certain grasses). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of tissue): bathroom tissue; toilet paper; toilet tissue (a soft thin absorbent paper for use in toilets).
Connective tissue is the material between the cells of the body that gives tissues form and strength. This “cellular glue” is also involved in delivering nutrients to the tissue, and in the special functioning of certain tissues. 
• SCAR TISSUE (noun). The noun SCAR TISSUE has 1 sense: 1. the connective tissue that forms a scar; consists of fibroblasts in new scars and collagen fibers in old scars. Familiarity information: SCAR TISSUE used as a noun is very rare. Nouns denoting body parts. Hypernyms (scar tissue is a kind of...): connective tissue (tissue of mesodermal origin consisting of e.g. collagen fibroblasts and fatty cells; supports organs and fills spaces between them and forms tendons and ligaments). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of scar tissue):
Tissue is a group of cells which carry out the same function, and are from the same origin. Organs are formed from groups of tissue. after a graft or transplant, the immune response of the recipient to foreign tissue cells, with production of antibodies and eventually destruction of the transplanted organ. … acute rejection, acute cellular rejection, cellular rejection.
Dense breast tissue refers to the appearance of breast tissue on a mammogram. It's a normal and common finding. Breast tissue is composed of milk glands, milk ducts and supportive tissue (dense breast tissue), and fatty tissue (nondense breast tissue). 1 Heterogeneously dense indicates that there are some areas of nondense tissue, but that the majority of the breast tissue is dense. 2  About 4 in 10 women have this result. 3  Extremely dense indicates that nearly all
It is an incredibly common condition that simply means your breasts have denser breast tissue and more lumps and bumps than most. If you have fibrocystic breast tissue you need to be just as diligent about performing breast self-exams as women who do not have lots of lumps and bumps.. 