If you are a student aged 16 and under (and don't travel with a Student Pass) you can travel on concession fares. You do not need a concession card. If you wish to use the student pass, then you must also have a Victorian Public Transport Concession Card. If you are a primary or secondary school student travelling with a student pass you must have a VPT Student Concession Card. A VPT concession card is also a valid concession card for students aged 17 years and over.
- Students can apply at Ticket Offices, Concession Card Replacement Offices, via TL website and Mobile Services Application from 1 Apr to 31 May 15. $8 payment ($3 personalisation fee and $5 card cost) will be collected upon application. - For online applications, the cards will be mailed to the students. For applications at CCROs, the students will get the cards immediately.
If you are 17 and over (and not travelling with a Student Pass) and have a Victorian Health Care Card, you can use your Health Care Card as proof of your concession entitlement. You do not need to apply for a Victorian Public Transport (VTP) Student Concession Card to travel on concession fares. If you are a primary or secondary school student travelling with a student pass you must have a VPT Student Concession Card. A VPT concession card is also a valid concession card for students aged 17 years and over.
Welcome to go card online. Register your go card to access your balances and transaction history online. Register online now or call 13 12 30. Register your go card and log in online to: 1  Top up your balance (also available over the phone). 2  Set up auto top up (so your account balance is automatically topped up when it falls below $5). 3  View your transactions (including where and when you used your go card). 4  Change your account details
Foreign worker levy. Foreign worker quota and levy requirements, how to pay the levy, skilled worker levy and levy waiver. 1  Apply for Work Permit Includes how to apply for a Work Permit and check the status of your application. Find out your sector's requirements, the foreign worker levy and quota, and how to apply. 1  Key facts Overview and key facts about the Work Permit, including who it is for, validity and pass map.
If you are using a card that has a concession fare set, you must also be eligible for any discounted fares set on the card (i.e. child, student, senior). A student, senior or child may use an adult's PRESTO card to travel at full adult fare. 
Concession Schemes. You have the option of purchasing either a Bus Concession Pas (BCP), a Train Concession Pass (TCP) or a Hybrid Concession Pass (HCP) to be encoded into the Undergraduate Concession Card. The concession pass can be purchased from any Add Value Machine (AVM) or TransitLink Ticket Office to enjoy concessionary travel. The Undergraduate Concession Card can also be topped-up with a minimum travel value of $10 for use on buses and trains should you decide not to purchase a concession pass. Normal adult fares will be deducted. Check Your Eligibility You are advised to check your eligibility for application at the TransitLink website before proceeding to the Ticket Office. Application Methods. Application for the Undergraduate Concession Card may be made at any TransitLink Ticket Office from 21 July to 31 August 2015.
Apply CEPAS Tertiary Student Concession Card (only those who have submitted their photo should proceed) Notes: 1. Payment for the card is $8, which consists of $5 card cost (non-refundable) and $3 personalisation fee (non-refundable). If you do not see your name, please check again few days later. Step 4: Collect your CEPAS Card from the Student & Alumni Affairs Department (SAA), which situated above TP bookstore, if the TransitLink website shows that your CEPAS Card has been delivered to Temasek Polytechnic.
3. You can add value to your CEPAS Card at any TransitLink Ticket Office, Add Value Machine (AVM) or the General Ticketing Machine (GTM) located at all MRT and LRT stations. 4. For faulty cards, please proceed to any of the six TransitLink Concession Card Replacement Office for assistance. 5. For further assistance, please call TransitLink Hotline: 1800-2255-663 (8 am to 6 pm daily, closed on public holiday) or visit their website: www.transitlink.com.sg. If you do not see your name, please check again few days later. Step 4: Collect your CEPAS Card from the Student & Alumni Affairs Department (SAA), which situated above TP bookstore, if the TransitLink website shows that your CEPAS Card has been delivered to Temasek Polytechnic.
- Students can apply at Concession Card Replacement Offices, TL website and Mobile Services Application from 5 Jun 15. $8 payment ($3 personalisation fee and $5 card cost) will be collected upon application. - For online applications, the cards will be mailed to the students. For applications at CCROs, the students will get the cards immediately.