You will also need to to have a finished ceiling height of 80 inches minimum and a shower that's at least 30 by 30 inches to comply with the National Kitchen & Bath Association's guidelines for bathrooms. If you decide to plan for a bench, make sure it doesn't crowd this space of 30 by 30 inches minimum. In the renovated bathroom here, a small 1926 tub was replaced with a curbless shower. The walkway from the vanity to the shower was too tight for a swinging shower door, which is why this shower has two glass block walls instead.
It can also make the bathroom look much more spacious. The tub to shower conversion is suitable for homes with seniors as well as for households that no longer have little children anymore. The cost of installing a conversion is a fraction of the cost arising from a complete bathroom remodel. 1 A previous basic tub to shower conversion project it had in the past year had a job cost of $6,455. 2  The new installation had a resale value of $5,615 and 87.4% of the cost was recouped.
When considering a walk in shower, an E\Z Step tub to shower conversion has several advantages over a traditional walk in shower remodel job. The three top benefits of the E\Z Step tub to shower conversion are: 1. Real Savings-The price range for a traditional walk in shower remodeling project will cost anywhere between $6500 and $10,000 and can go up from there depending on the materials chosen, hardware colors and upgrade and options. When you have an E\Z Step tub to shower conversion installed most installs take only one day to complete and are ready to use in only 24 hours! Some cast iron tub to shower conversions takes a day and a half to have shower ready. See services for more details.
RE: has anyone had a tub to shower conversion and how much did it cost? I would like to change my tub to a shower and would like a ball park figure of the cost before hand. We are talking about a basic 60in left hand tub replace with a shower liner to replace the tub. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I did mine myself by doing all the demo and the replacement of the tub to a right hand drain. I ordered the swanstone retrofit through home dpot and it cost me $155.00. I had to change out the drain to 2. Here is what I had to do for my bathroom remodel. Incliudinding everything cost was about $3000 but just the shower surround replacement was around $1200 since I did all the work
1 The cost of having a tub to shower conversion is going to greatly depend on the size of the shower and tub being installed and replaced, the condition of the walls, and the amount of demolition that is needed. 2  On average, most professional conversion jobs are going to be between $4,500 and $13,000. 1 A previous basic tub to shower conversion project it had in the past year had a job cost of $6,455. 2  The new installation had a resale value of $5,615 and 87.4% of the cost was recouped.
1 Convertabath, a home improvement professional based in Chandler, Arizona, offers a do-it-yourself tub to shower conversion kit that costs $430 plus shipping and handling fees. 2  The kit converts a bathtub to a walk in shower in a matter of hours. 3  Installation requires basic hand tools. 1 A previous basic tub to shower conversion project it had in the past year had a job cost of $6,455. 2  The new installation had a resale value of $5,615 and 87.4% of the cost was recouped.
“It’s generally about the same price range for the average tub or shower replacement. If you’re replacing a tub with a tub or a shower with a shower and aren’t adding new features, the typical cost is about $3,000 to $5,000. This is when people want a new tub or shower environment, generally for a facelift.”. By his estimate, a typical job that includes replacing an old shower or tub with a custom shower pan, new wall tile, a glass surround and a custom glass door ranges in cost from about $4,000 to $5,000. Without the custom door, the price drops about $1,000