Playaway Audio Books. Playaway® is the simplest way to listen to audio on the go. Each Playaway is a self-contained audiobook, weighs only two ounces, and comes with a battery. Just plug in your headphones and enjoy. You can navigate back and forth through a chapter, adjust the volume up and down, and even alter the speed of a narrator's voice.
When it comes to audiobook formats, Playaway can't be beat! Unlike CDs, audio cassettes or downloads, Playaway does not need a separate player. Instead, Playaway comes pre-loaded and ready to use with one audiobook per device—making them simple for you to use and your library to circulate. 
Pre-loaded for everyone. 1  Library exclusive format lets you make video content accessible to all patrons. 2  Pre-loaded player is rechargeable and easy to circulate. 3  Durable design stands up to repeat use by patrons of all ages. 4  Simple controls make it easy to use even for young children. 5  External speaker and headphone jack enable listening in any ... 1 Durable design stands up to repeat use by patrons of all ages. 2  Simple controls make it easy to use even for young children. 3  External speaker and headphone jack enable listening in any environment. 4  Award-winning and popular content piques the interest of patrons of every age.
There’s always a reason for patrons to press play! Playaway View is the all-in-one video player that makes popular content accessible in a simple, portable and durable format. 1 Durable design stands up to repeat use by patrons of all ages. 2  Simple controls make it easy to use even for young children. 3  External speaker and headphone jack enable listening in any environment. 4  Award-winning and popular content piques the interest of patrons of every age.
Playaway is the name of a solid-state prerecorded audio player introduced in 2005 by Findaway World, LLC, based in Solon, Ohio. About the size of a deck of playing cards and weighing 2 ounces, it can store up to 80 hours of audio. As of March 2010, the audiobooks are all produced in high definition audio. The digital content (audiobook or music compilation) is preloaded at the factory and cannot be changed or copied by the end user. A 3.5 mm stereo jack provides output to earphones or an external amplifier. Playaway was specifically designed to use most commonly available cassette adaptors and FM transmitters. Power is provided by a changeable 1.5V AAA cell, which the manufacturer claims allows it to operate approximately 20 hours before battery depletion, 30 hours for the newer versions.
The library has a collection of audiobooks called Playaways. These devices are each loaded with a single popular title. They are about the size of an iPod, small enough to fit in a pocket or purse. You listen to them with headphones and control them with a few simple buttons on the back of the player. This means you don't need a computer, a CD player, an MP3 player or any other extra hardware to listen to an audiobook.
PayAway-IP Direct gives you: • 24/7 access – from anywhere with Internet access. • Accessibility – make sterling Bacs payments to any UK bank account, simply and securely. • Browser-based technology – that is easy-to-use and can be used by many users at the same time. 
Deliver a world of digital content—on secure, pre-loaded devices. Introducing LIGHT. Playaway LIGHT is the all-in-one audiobook format you love now with a larger, backlit screen, friendlier controls, advanced firmware, and an increasingly intuitive design. So play, unplugged and uninterrupted, all day and straight into the night. We'll keep you listening. 1  Buy Now ». 
Meet Playaway. With Playaway ® all-in-one products, it’s simple to access great audiobook and video content anytime, anywhere. Now you can press play and enjoy everything from classic and best-selling titles to educational content — all without a personal smartphone or mp3 player. Playaway products are currently circulated in over 30 thousand schools, libraries, and military installations across the country and abroad.