Definition of ANIMATRONIC. : of, relating to, or being a puppet or similar figure that is animated by means of electromechanical devices. — an·i·ma·tron·i·cal·ly \-ni-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Animatronic Parts. Animatronic Parts is a high tech studio that specializes in the design and fabrication of animatronic and robotic humanoids, puppets, creatures, and control systems. 
Animatronics refers to the use of robotic devices to emulate a human or an animal, or bring lifelike characteristics to an otherwise inanimate object. Animatronic creations include animals (including dinosaurs), plants and even mythical creatures. Animatronics is a multi-disciplinary field which integrates anatomy, robots, mechatronics, and puppetry resulting in lifelike animation. Animatronic figures are often powered by pneumatics, hydraulics, or by electrical means, and can be implemented using both computer control and human control, including teleoperation.
Find out if you are Bonnie, Chica, Freddy, or Foxy in this quiz. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Animatronics is a type of special effects which involves building mechanized creatures like dinosaurs, imaginary animals, and others. Initially, the concept was developed for Disney Studios, which used a giant squid in the 1954 film version 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. 
For other uses, see AA. Audio-Animatronics (Animatronics, AA) is the registered trademark for a form of robotics animation created by Walt Disney Imagineering for shows and attractions at Disney theme parks, and subsequently expanded on and used by other companies. 
Parts Needed for Animatronics. Building your first animatronic figure does not require an engineering degree or an internship for Disney Imagineering. With the parts and materials available today, building a simple animatronic figure takes work, but can be accomplished by one person. The Outer Shell. The outer shell is what the audience sees.
Because servos have a limited range of movement, you want to make sure that the servo is in the right position when you mount it in your setup. You could hook up your servos to a controller, and run VSA to find the center. But a better solution is to use a dedicated servo tester. In addition to their size and weight specifications, servos are typically rated by their torque and speed. Torque is a measure of how much rotary force the servo can deliver, typically in ounce inches (oz in) or kilogram centimeters (kg cm). A servo which is rated for a torque of 48 oz-in can hold up 3 lbs.
50 pages on this wiki. The Animatronics are the ten (eleven, if the Puppet is included) main antagonists of Five Nights at Freddy's, and Five Nights at Freddy's 2. Animatronics. 50 pages on this wiki. The Animatronics are the ten (eleven, if the Puppet is included) main antagonists of Five Nights at Freddy's, and Five Nights at Freddy's 2. In the first game, they consist of Freddy Fazbear, Bonnie ,Chica, and Foxy, plus the mysterious Golden Freddy.