It is marketed in Canada, Mexico, the Philippines, the United States and Venezuela. Cheez Whiz is one of a number of processed cheese foods, a category including some types of individually wrapped cheese slices. These products contain regular cheese that has been reprocessed along with additional ingredients such as emulsifiers and stabilizing agents, such as xanthan gum or carrageenan.
It's a split decision at Steve's Prince of Steaks. Honestly, it's about 50-50, said owner Steve Iliesecu, who has two locations in the Northeast, one in Langhorne, another coming in Cherry Hill. Some customers even order combo cheese-a mix of Whiz and the pourable American he invented in 1980, he said. American is probably a more legit representation what of mass-market eaters choose in town, said Inquirer restaurant critic Craig LaBan. I'm a cheese eater, sweetheart, and I love cheese, but Whiz is not cheese, says owner Vonda Bucci, 75. It's a lot of grease and coloring.. We won't do it. We will not carry Cheez Whiz, said Jack Mullan, 50, co-owner of popular Leo's Steak Shop in Folcroft. And customers never complain.
Some customers even order combo cheese-a mix of Whiz and the pourable American he invented in 1980, he said. The whole Whiz thing is overrated, said WIP midday cohost Glen Macnow, who had provolone during his ultimate cheesesteak search, won by John's Roast Pork. Ditto at Pat's King of Steaks, where Whiz oozed its way into history, said owner Frank Olivieri Jr., 44. Originally, the Philly steak sandwich, invented by his Uncle Pat in the early 1930s, he said, had no cheese. By and by, cheese was introduced.
Traisman worked for Kraft Foods on the teams that created Cheez Whiz and individually packaged cheese slices in the 1950s. He became a division director of food research with responsibility for cheese and related projects. 
After a year and half of experimentation, they did. Cheez Whiz was introduced in Britain in 1952, and soon after across the United States. Given its reputation, it might surprise you to learn that Cheez Wiz was, in fact, originally made with quite a bit of real cheese. However, very recently, this changed. By packing his cheese into 3-1/2 and 7-3/4 ounce tins, Kraft was able to become the cheese supplier to the US Army, earning himself a huge payday and a whole generation of soldiers trying out his cheese. Flash forward about twenty five years, to 1952.
Cheez Whiz is a thick and processed cheese sauce or spread sold by Kraft Foods. It was developed by a team led by food scientist Edwin Traisman (1915–2007). While many sources give its national debut as 1953, it was advertised by Kraft and retailers in several states late in 1952. Cheez Whiz is one of a number of processed cheese foods, a category including some types of individually wrapped cheese slices. These products contain regular cheese that has been reprocessed along with additional ingredients such as emulsifiers and stabilizing agents, such as xanthan gum or carrageenan.
Ditto at Pat's King of Steaks, where Whiz oozed its way into history, said owner Frank Olivieri Jr., 44. Originally, the Philly steak sandwich, invented by his Uncle Pat in the early 1930s, had no cheese, he said. I'm a cheese eater, sweetheart, and I love cheese, but Whiz is not cheese, says owner Vonda Bucci, 75. It's a lot of grease and coloring.. We won't do it. We will not carry Cheez Whiz, said Jack Mullan, 50, co-owner of popular Leo's Steak Shop in Folcroft. And customers never complain.
Traisman worked for Kraft Foods on the teams that created Cheez Whiz and individually packaged cheese slices in the 1950s. He became a division director of food research with responsibility for cheese and related projects. 
Entirely artificial Cheez Whiz can be added to any food to make it partly artificial. ~ A short-lived commercial that ran on Saturday Night Live on the repurposing of Cheez Whiz. Cheez Whiz is a process cheese-like substance thing, manufactured by Kraft. Cheez Whiz is a delicacy in mobile home parks, on NASA space flights, in inner-city day-care centers, and in most places where nutrition is a low priority. Chef Rocco DiSpirito, star of the failed TV show The Restaurant, invented Cheez Whiz and popularized the signature Oysters Cheez Whiz at his Manhattan eatery. Recent evidence points to the true originator as Donald Trump, the same man who invented the meatball pizza.
A 1 pound (450 g) jar = 1 1/3 cups. 1 cup = 12 oz / 340 g. Cheez Whiz was invented in 1951 by Kraft lab technicians charged with creating a processed cheese product that would melt easily, without breaking down into oils. It was launched in 1952 in America and in Canada, and sold in jars with metal lids. Cheez Whiz; Processed Cheese; Vache Qui Rit Cheese. 