Chemical engineers use math, physics, and economics to solve practical problems. The difference between chemical engineers and other types of engineers is that they apply a knowledge of chemistry in addition to other engineering disciplines. Chemical engineers may be called 'universal engineers' because their scientific and technical mastery is so extensive.
The difference between chemical engineers and other types of engineers is that they apply a knowledge of chemistry in addition to other engineering disciplines. Chemical engineers sometimes are called 'universal engineers' because their scientific and technical mastery is so broad. They devise ways to make products from raw materials and ways to convert one material into another useful form. Chemical engineers can make processes more cost effective or more environmentally friendly or more efficient. As you can see, a chemical engineer can find a niche in any scientific or engineering field.
In the field of engineering, a chemical engineer is a professional, who is equipped with the knowledge of chemical engineering, works principally in the chemical industry to convert basic raw materials into a variety of products, and deals with the design and operation of plants and equipment. 
Chemical engineering is a branch of engineering that applies physical sciences (physics and chemistry) and life sciences (microbiology and biochemistry) together with applied mathematics and economics to produce, transform, transport, and properly use chemicals, materials and energy. Education for chemical engineers in the first college degree 3 or 4 years of study stresses the principles and practices of process design. The same skills are used in existing chemical plants to evaluate the efficiency and make recommendations for improvements.
Chemical engineering is the branch of engineering that deals with chemical production and the manufacture of products through chemical processes. This includes designing equipment, systems and processes for refining raw materials and for mixing, compounding and processing chemicals to make valuable products. Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, physics and math to solve problems that involve the production or use of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food and many other products, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Chemical engineers work in a variety of fields, according to the BLS
Advertisement. Advertisement. Chemical Engineering is the discipline of engineering which deals with the application of experimental and/or natural sciences in collaboration with life sciences, mathematics and economics to either produce or transform chemicals, energy and materials. As a chemical engineer you will basically be dealing with chemicals, energy and will be looking into processes that allow you to create/convert chemical substances. Modern Chemical engineering focuses on how to make use of raw materials in order to manufacture items which are less expensive.
What Chemical Engineers Do About this section. Chemical engineers develop and design chemical manufacturing processes. Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, physics, and mathematics to solve problems that involve the production or use of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food, and many other products. Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, and physics to solve problems involving the production of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food, and many other products.
Chemical engineering is concerned with the ways in which raw materials are changed into useful and commercial end products. Chemical engineers are also involved in the production of pharmaceutical products as diverse as penicillin and shampoo. Chemical engineers may work in companies involved in the production of such things as food, plastics, ceramics, pharmaceuticals, metals and glass.