Food can affect the amounts of cholesterol in your blood. Some foods raise cholesterol. Other foods help lower cholesterol. The table below lists different foods and drinks and how they affect your total cholesterol level, your HDL (good) cholesterol, and your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Dietary element. Examples. Effect on your cholesterol level. Alcohol. 1  Red wine. 2  White wine. 3  Beer. 4  Hard liquor. Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Borderline High, too. Working to bring down your total cholesterol decreases your LDL cholesterol level. You can do this by exercising more and eating less food with saturated fats.
Your total cholesterol level is High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High, too. Working to bring down your total cholesterol decreases your LDL cholesterol level. You can do this by exercising more and eating less food with saturated fats. Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High
Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is Borderline High, too. Working to bring down your total cholesterol decreases your LDL cholesterol level. You can do this by exercising more and eating less food with saturated fats. Your total cholesterol level is Borderline High. Your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High
Diet. Cholesterol is found in foods that come from animal sources, such as egg yolks, meat, and cheese. Some foods have fats that raise your cholesterol level. For example, saturated fat raises your low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol level more than anything else in your diet. Saturated fat is found in some meats, dairy products, chocolate, baked goods, and deep-fried and processed foods. Trans fatty acids (trans fats) raise your LDL cholesterol and lower your high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Trans fats are made when hydrogen is added to vegetable oil to harden it. Trans fats are found in some fried and processed foods. 
Your diet, lifestyle habits, and other conditions all influence your cholesterol levels. The amount and type of fat in your diet can make a major difference in your risk of heart attack and coronary heart disease. For instance, saturated fats come from animal foods, as well as coconut and palm oil. A diet high in saturated fats can produce high blood cholesterol. That increases your risk of heart attack
Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol.
Topic Overview. Food can affect the amounts of cholesterol in your blood. Some foods raise cholesterol. Other foods help lower cholesterol. The table below lists different foods and drinks and how they affect your total cholesterol level, your HDL (good) cholesterol, and your LDL (bad) cholesterol. Dietary element. Examples. Effect on your cholesterol level. Alcohol. 1  Red wine. 2  White wine. 3  Beer.
Your diet can have a major impact on your blood cholesterol levels. Some foods increase total and LDL (bad) cholesterol levels while others decrease those levels and may even improved good cholesterol levels. Foods high in saturated and trans fats have been shown to increase total and LDL cholesterol levels. 
Trans fats raise LDL cholesterol, and lower high-density lipoprotein (HDL), the good cholesterol. Food labels report the content of trans fats, but, unfortunately, only in foods that contain at least one gram per serving. It's not clear whether food with plant sterols or stanols reduce your risk of heart attack or stroke, although experts assume that foods that reduce cholesterol do reduce the risk. Plant sterols or stanols don't appear to affect levels of triglycerides or of