The important ERP SAP modules used by organization are FICO (Financials and Controlling) module, MM (Materials Management) module, SD (Sales & Distribution), HR (Human Resources), PP (Production Planning) module, Project systems, SAP ABAP, SAP security and so on. SAP provides end to end solutions for financials, manufacturing, logistics, distribution etc. Each SAP module is integrated with other modules. SAP System divided in to two types of modules such as functional modules and technical modules.
SAP R/3 :– SAP upgraded R/2 to R/3. SAP R/3 is the client/server version of the software and it is 3 tier architecture in which three layers Presentation, Application and data base are installed in three server/system. What does SAP stands for – SAP stands for Systems, Applications and Products in data processing. 1  SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business
System SAP ERP (previously SAP R/3) has a modular structure; that is, it contains a number of modules accessible via one login to the SAP ERP system (with the exception of SAP BW and SAP KW). SAP ERP modules are widely known by their abbreviations. Modules are organized hierarchically; that is, they have submodules (e.g., Fixed Assets FI-AA is a submodule of Finance FI). Some modules are extensions of existing modules, but are not officially a submodule (e.g., Fleet Management FM is an extension of Plant Maintenace PM). Some parts of SAP software are also described with module code due to support issues. These are Technical Modules.
SAP Modules overview: – SAP stands for “Systems, Applications and Products in data processing” and it is the fourth largest software company in the world. SAP provides end to end solutions for financials, manufacturing, logistics, distribution etc. Each SAP module is integrated with other modules. SAP System divided in to two types of modules such as functional modules and technical modules.
Sales & Distribution (SD): The SAP sales and distribution is part of the logistics module that support your customers, starting from quotations, sales order and all the way towards billing the customer. It is tightly integrated with the MM (Material Management) and PP (Product Planning) functional modules. 
A SAP system is divided into modules like MM, SD which maps business process of that particular department or business unit. Following is the list of module available in SAP system. 1  SAP FI Module-FI stands for Financial Accounting. 2  SAP CO Module-CO stands for Controlling. 3  SAP PS Module-and PS is Project Systems. 
1 SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business. 3  It provides end to end solutions for financials, manufacturing, logistics, distribution etc. What does SAP stands for – SAP stands for Systems, Applications and Products in data processing. 1  SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business
SAP Modules. SAP ERP is a generic term for all the functional modules of the German software company SAP AG. ERP stands for Enterprise Resource Planning or in a more advanced form-ERP Central Component (SAP ECC). 
Overview of SAP Modules. SAP Certification exam is based on Enterprise Resource Planning solutions, typically SAP software solutions. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) that allows an enterprise to manage data bases for different processes from a single unified system. SAP CO module is another important SAP modules offered to enterprises. The controlling module supports in the process works of planning, reporting and monitoring operations of businesses. It involves methods to view and organize costs that are required for financial reporting.