By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. The first research into blood transfusion dates back to the 17th Century when British physician William Harvey fully described the circulation and properties of blood in 1628. The first blood transfusions were also attempted around this time, although these were often unsuccessful and proved fatal in humans. In 1818, British obstetrician James Blundell successfully transfused human blood to a patient who had hemorrhaged during childbirth. In 1901, Karl Landsteiner, an Austrian physician discovered the first human blood groups, which helped transfusion to become a safer practice.
1667: The first blood transfusion involving a human being is performed. Jean-Baptiste Denys, personal physician to France’s Louis XIV, is generally credited with performing the first human blood transfusion, although some sources award that distinction to Englishman Richard Lower. What is not in dispute is the year — 1667 — and the patient — a 15-year-old boy who had been bled so much by his doctor that he required an infusion of blood. The source is also not under dispute: Whoever the physician was, he used a sheep’s blood.
The first blood transfusion from animal to human was administered by Dr. Jean-Baptiste Denys, eminent physician to King Louis XIV of France, on June 15, 1667. Transfusions are used for various medical conditions to replace lost components of the blood. Early transfusions used whole blood, but modern medical practice commonly uses only components of the blood, such as red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, clotting factors, and platelets.
The first non-direct transfusion was performed on March 27, 1914 by the Belgian doctor Albert Hustin, though this was a diluted solution of blood. The Argentine doctor Luis Agote used a much less diluted solution in November of the same year. Transfusions are used for various medical conditions to replace lost components of the blood. Early transfusions used whole blood, but modern medical practice commonly uses only components of the blood, such as red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, clotting factors, and platelets.
Pepys recorded in fine detail one of the first attempts at blood transfusion to take place. On this day, November 14, in 1666, Pepys described a transfusion between two dogs. This was just the second such attempt on record, and came just months after the discovery of blood circulation mechanisms through the heart. 
Abstract. The first experiments in blood transfusion took place in the seventeenth century, using blood drawn from animals. After the death of a French patient and the trial of his physician for manslaughter, transfusion was abandoned for a century and a half.
Fever. You may get a sudden fever during or within a day of your blood transfusion. This is usually your body's normal response to white blood cells in the donated blood. Over-the-counter fever medicine usually will treat the fever. Some blood banks remove white blood cells from whole blood or different parts of the blood. This makes it less likely that you will have a reaction after the transfusion.
In 1667, Jean-Baptiste Denis who was physician to King Louis XIV, performed the transfusion of blood from an animal to a human. In 1818, British obstetrician James Blundell successfully transfused human blood to a patient who had hemorrhaged during childbirth. In 1901, Karl Landsteiner, an Austrian physician discovered the first human blood groups, which helped transfusion to become a safer practice.
Yudin performed such a transfusion successfully for the first time on March 23, 1930 and reported his first seven clinical transfusions with cadaveric blood at the Fourth Congress of Ukrainian Surgeons at Kharkiv in September. However, this method was never used widely, even in Russia. Transfusions are used for various medical conditions to replace lost components of the blood. Early transfusions used whole blood, but modern medical practice commonly uses only components of the blood, such as red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, clotting factors, and platelets.