Hypothyroidism is a common disease in dogs, but rarely occurs in cats. The thyroid gland has a number of different functions, but it is most well known for its role in regulating metabolism by producing thyroid hormones. Hypothyroidism is the condition that occurs when not enough thyroid hormones are produced.
The thyroid gland is an endocrine gland that produces thyroid hormones that regulate many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolic processes are activities that occur in cells, involving the release of energy from nutrients or using energy to create other substances. Although very small, the thyroid gland plays an important role in regulating the body's metabolism and calcium balance. The T4 and T3 hormones stimulate every tissue in the body to produce proteins and increase the amount of oxygen used by cells. The harder the cells work, the harder the organs work.
Though synthetic thyroid hormones are the preferred medication for hypothyroidism today, animal thyroid hormones (also known as desiccated, or dried, thyroid extract) were once the standard treatment. In fact, they were the only treatment available. 
The function of the thyroid gland is to take iodine, found in many foods, and convert it into thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body which can absorb iodine. These cells combine iodine and the amino acid tyrosine to make T3 and T4. 
The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels. 
The most informative and helpful test is the T4 (thyroxine) and/or free T4 concentration determination. Thyroxine is a primary hormone produced by the thyroid gland. Its level tends to increase in some patients with adenocarcinoma of the thyroid gland. Thyroid Gland Adenocarcinoma in Dogs. The thyroid gland is responsible for a variety of bodily functions, most notably the coordination of hormones and normal metabolism. A particularly malignant form of cancer, carcinoma is characterized by its ability to spread quickly throughout the body
Two tiny parathyroid glands are associated with each thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands also regulate calcium levels in the body and increase calcium in the blood. The parathyroid glands also help regulate phosphorus levels. Below is information about the structure and function of the canine thyroid gland. We will tell you about the general structure of the thyroid gland, how the thyroid gland works in dogs, common diseases that affect the thyroid gland and common diagnostic tests performed in dogs to evaluate the thyroid gland. Although very small, the thyroid gland plays an important role in regulating the body's metabolism and calcium balance. The T4 and T3 hormones stimulate every tissue in the body to produce proteins and increase the amount of oxygen used by cells. The harder the cells work, the harder the organs work.
Some familiar examples of hormones include insulin, thyroid hormone, and cortisol. These hormones are important in the development of diabetes, hypo-and hyperthyroidism, and Cushing’s disease, respectively. Human endocrine glands are essentially identical to dog and cat endocrine glands, both in structure and function. The endocrine glands include the pituitary gland, thyroid gland, parathyroid glands, pancreas, adrenal glands, ovaries, and testes. The endocrine system is the system of glands, each of which secretes a type of hormone into the bloodstream to regulate the body. While powerful, the endocrine organs are relatively small. Hormones are chemical messengers that have many different functions.
Diseases of the thyroid gland are common in dogs and cats (humans, too). Dogs with thyroid disease are more commonly hypothyroid (underactive gland) and cats with thyroid disease are more commonly hyperthyroid (overactive gland). People and animals with a low functioning thyroid gland usually have a decreased, or “slow” metabolism. Common signs of hypothyroidism include: 1  Weight gain. 2  Poor hair coat and hair loss. 3  Depression. 4  Poor body condition and reduced muscle tone. 5  Prone to illness.