It is a standard method of compressing photographic images. We also call JPEG the file format which employs this compression. The JPEG committee has now created its own wavelet-based standard, JPEG 2000, which is intended to eventually supersede the original JPEG standard. When you need to convert JPEG files to other formats like TIFF, PNG, BMP use Total Image Converter. It's the most powerful image converter to convert to and from JPEG. The file extensions for this format are .JPEG, .JFIF, .JPG, OR .JPE although .JPG is the most common on all platform
In computing, JPEG (pronounced JAY-peg; IPA: [ˈdʒeɪpɛg]) is a commonly used method of compression for photographic images. The name JPEG stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group, the name of the committee who created the standard. JPEG should not be confused with MPEG (Moving Picture Experts Group) which produces compression schemes for video. JPEG itself specifies both the codec, which defines how an image is compressed into a stream of bytes and decompressed back into an image, and the file format used to contain that stream.
The JPEG file extension is used interchangeably with JPG. JPEG stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group who created the standard. JPG files have 2 sub-formats, JPG/Exif (often used in digital cameras and photographic equipment), and JPG/JFIF (often used on the World Wide Web). The JPEG standard specifies the codec, which defines how an image is compressed into a stream of bytes and decompressed back into an image, but not the file format used to contain that stream. The Exif and JFIF standards define the commonly used formats for interchange of JPEG-compressed images.
JPEG (pronounced jay-peg) is a standardized image compression mechanism. JPEG stands for Joint Photographic Experts Group, the original name of the committee that wrote the standard. JPEG compresses either full-color or grayscale images, and works best with photographs and artwork. 
JPEG compression is used in a number of image file formats. JPEG/ Exif is the most common image format used by digital cameras and other photographic image capture devices; along with JPEG/ JFIF, it is the most common format for storing and transmitting photographic images on the World Wide Web. The JPEG standard specifies the codec, which defines how an image is compressed into a stream of bytes and decompressed back into an image, but not the file format used to contain that stream. The Exif and JFIF standards define the commonly used file formats for interchange of JPEG-compressed images.
The .jpg file extension is assigned to image files. Many photographs and Internet graphics are stored in the JPG file format. JPG files are commonly referred to as JPEG images. JPEG is the acronym for Joint Photographic Experts Group. Many bitmap images are saved in .jpg format in order to compress the files. This makes it easier to transfer or download the files and use them on the Web. 
The term JPEG is an acronym for the Joint Photographic Experts Group, which created the standard. The MIME media type for JPEG is image/jpeg, except in older Internet Explorer versions, which provides a MIME type of image/pjpeg when uploading JPEG images. JPEG files usually have a filename extension of .jpg or .jpeg. The JPEG standard specifies the codec, which defines how an image is compressed into a stream of bytes and decompressed back into an image, but not the file format used to contain that stream. The Exif and JFIF standards define the commonly used file formats for interchange of JPEG-compressed images.
Instead, remember that a JPEG is a compressed image file format. JPEG images are not limited to a certain amount of color, like GIF images are. Therefore, the JPEG format is best for compressing photographic images. So if you see a large, colorful image on the Web, it is most likely a JPEG file.
Image files that employ JPEG compression are commonly called JPEG files. The most common file extension for this format is .jpg, though .jpeg, .jpe, .jfif and .jif are also used. It is also possible for JPEG data to be embedded in other file types, such as TIFF format images. JPEG/JFIF is the format most used for storing and transmitting photographs on the World Wide Web. JPEG should not be confused with MPEG (Moving Picture Experts Group) which produces compression schemes for video. JPEG itself specifies both the codec, which defines how an image is compressed into a stream of bytes and decompressed back into an image, and the file format used to contain that stream.