Compression socks or stockings can help relieve foot-related discomforts caused by sitting for long periods of time, such as when traveling on long drives, or on an airplane. They can even help prevent potentially deadly deep vein blood clots that can form during long flights. 
1 Wear loose, comfortable clothes. 2  Consider buying flight socks (compression stockings). 3  Store luggage overhead so you have room to stretch out your legs. 4  Do anti-DVT exercises. 5  Raise your heels, keeping your toes on the floor, then bring them down. 6  Do this 10 times. 7  Now raise and lower your toes 10 times. If you think you have a high risk of developing DVT, see your GP before you travel. You may be prescribed blood-thinning drugs to lessen the risk of your blood clotting, or compression stockings (also called flight socks).
Compression stockings are a specialized hosiery, designed to help prevent the occurrence of, and guard against further progression of venous disorders such as edema, phlebitis and thrombosis. Compression stockings are elastic garments worn around the leg, compressing the limb. Knee High Compression Hose are used not only to help increase circulation, but to also help prevent the formation of blood clots in the lower legs, as well as aiding in the treatment of ulcers of the lower legs. “The majority of venous ulcers heal with compression bandages, however ulcers frequently recur.
I agree that compression socks can help especially on travel. There is a reason why some athletes use this kind of socks, maybe it is because they find it helpful. As for me, it is a great help not just health wise but even when it comes to style. There are variety of compression socks that are colorful and fashionable. For those who don’t know, when you run at a relatively high level, a lot of racing encompasses long travel days and then lots of sitting around at a hotel. I must say out of all of the uses for compression socks this is where I saw the most benefit.
If you’ve been prescribed compression stockings for a condition that affects your circulation, you may need to wear them for several years and, in some cases, for the rest of your life. If you need to wear compression stockings after having deep vein thrombosis (DVT), you should wear them for at least two years. DVT is a blood clot that forms in one of the deep veins in your body, usually in your legs. Compression stockings are also sometimes known as graduated compression stockings. 
I’ve been wanting to do a post on compression socks for a while, because they seem like the new “fad”. Sigvaris sent me a nice pair of compression socks to test out, so that solved my problem of critiquing something I haven’t used. For those who don’t know, when you run at a relatively high level, a lot of racing encompasses long travel days and then lots of sitting around at a hotel. I must say out of all of the uses for compression socks this is where I saw the most benefit.
For our next long flights I was going to try some of those compression type socks that help circulation. I thought I would just go to a local travel store or Target or the like & pick some up but....no! My doctor recommended compression socks so I decided to try them. I bought a pair from AAA. They aren't soft and cushy like the socks I would prefer to wear during long flights, but they did definitely help with the foot swelling.
Compression wear has been around for a long time in the medical field. They are typically socks or stocking of various lengths made up of various materials. They provide graduated compression against the leg. The purpose for them is to place pressure on blood vessels which will constrict those vessels. If they work as advertised, this could potentially limit the stress and adaptation that athlete's desire. In other words, save it for race day. I do recommend they be worn during long trips or long durations of sitting or even standing (think: desk job, nurse or during travel to a race).
One idea that has gained attention with compression socks is whether or not they help your legs recover. In my opinion, they do. After a race, a workout or a long run, I put on my compression socks to help aid my recovery and reduce muscle soreness. Those interesting-looking socks that come in a variety of obnoxious colors are referred to as compression socks. Many people, myself included, wonder if these compression socks actually work, but now after trying them during races, after races and for travel, I can say I am a believer in the
Today, I will explain the concept behind compression, how it can benefit you, and which conditions it’s appropriate for. To really understand how compression socks and sleeves work, it’s important to have a basic understanding of how blood flows through the body. The heart pumps oxygen containing blood to our extremities and working muscles though arteries.