2. Turn on your printer and open the lid/flap that encloses the cartridges. The cartridges should slide to the center of the printing area. You may need to press the Ink button, which may have a “drop” icon, in order for the cartridges to slide out. 1  Do not pull the print head out of its housing. Insert the cartridge into the printer. Insert it in the reverse way that you remove them. Keep the correct angle, and it should fit in with little effort. Most newer cartridges will lock into place automatically with a little pressure.
Changing ink cartridges is a routine part of printer maintenance, and you may find that you need to do so frequently if the Canon printer in your office sees regular use. Your Canon printer has an access door on the top or front of the unit, allowing you to remove or check the status of the installed ink cartridges. Step 1. Locate and open the access door for your Canon printer. In most cases, you can access the printer's ink cartridges by placing your hand under the top panel of the printer and lifting up. If your printer has a built-in scanner, locate and lower the plastic arm on the underside of the scanner bed to lock the panel in place
Do not refill the ink cartridges. The printer calculates the amount of ink remaining using an IC chip on the ink cartridge. Even if the cartridge is refilled, the amount of ink remaining will not be recalculated by the IC chip and the amount of ink available for use will not change. 1  Do not refill the ink cartridges. 2  The printer calculates the amount of ink remaining using an IC chip on the ink cartridge. Please note that some ink will be consumed during reliability-confirmation operations each time the cartridge is inserted into the printer. You can replace an ink cartridge using the printer's control panel or using the Status Monitor utility. Refer to the appropriate section below for instructions.
Learn how to insert new individual ink cartridges into your PIXMA Printer in a few simple steps! 1  Education. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Replacing ink cartridges. Use the following steps to replace an ink cartridge. Step one: Replace the old ink cartridge. Remove the old ink cartridge and install the new ink cartridge. Make sure the printer is turned on. If necessary, press the Power button () to turn the printer on. Open the top cover of the printer.
Step 5. Insert ink into the cartridge using the refill syringe and the hole you just enlarged or created. Step 6. Remove the plastic cover from the bottom of the cartridge and let the excess ink drip off. Step 7. Replace the plastic stopper with the plastic end of a syringe plunger if you removed it earlier. 
Go to the HP SureSupply website. Scroll to the bottom of the page, and then make sure the country/region location is correct. Follow the on-screen instructions to order new ink cartridges or check ink cartridge compatibility with your printer. Genuine HP ink cartridges can also be purchased from other retailers. Step 5 - Install the new cartridges. If you are installing a new print cartridge, remove the protective tape. Damage may occur to the HP Deskjet printer if the print cartridges are not docked safely on the right side when you try to remove them. Push the scraper bar gently with your finger if it is blocking the cartridges, then press the Power button. Turn on the printer. Press the Power button if it is not lit