LWA/Larry Williams/Blend Images/Getty Images. The length of your boat oars determines your comfort while rowing the boat. Boat oars that are too short, will sit at a steep angle to the water making it harder for you to row. 
I bought new 6' oars at Bass Pro Shops for my 14' boat. I measured them and discovered that they are 1' shorter than the oars I have been using. I can't return the oars after I use them and had assumed 6' oars would be right for a 14' boat. I'd appreciate any comments on oar length. 
Rick: There is a formula for oar length-I will dig it up if you want. Boat length is not the factor to consider-you are right to consider the distance between locks. It sounds like you will be making your own oars-If so make them 9 ft long, try them on the boat-and you can shorten them by4-8. All the formulas I saw yielded oars that were too long. My boat is 14'8 from tip to stern directly down the center line with 69 from oar block hole to oar block hole, and I went with 9' and they seemed perfect. A lot of it depends on how high the seat is and if you have standard or high sides on the boat.
Instructions. Decide what length your oars need to be (Reference 1 and 2). The length of your oars greatly depends on the length of your boat and the condition of the water that you intend to row in (Reference 4). For shorter boats, closer to the 12-foot range, choose a pair of oars around 7-feet long (Reference 4). For longer boats, select oars that are 7 1/2- to 8-feet long (Reference 4). If you will be row boating in congested, close-quarter areas or in choppy waters, it is better to use shorter oars (Reference 4). Choose the wood that you want for your oars (Reference 2).
Selecting The Right Size Oars. If your oars are too long or hard to pull, they may not clear the water on the backstroke. Oars that are too short won’t dig into the water or allow the rower adequate leverage. Narrow-beam boats and low-freeboard boats require shorter oars. 
Report Abuse. You need to give the beam of the boat for a proper answer. Oars vary in length by beam of the boat, not length. For a 16 foot boat, it probably is about 5 feet wide, and then would take 7 to 8 foot oars. science teacher · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
I had a 12' long x 4 ft beam alum boat with 5 ft oars and they were too short. I once had a 15' wood boat with 8' oars and it worked well. I would go as big as you think you can handle, from 6 to 7 feet long. Probably 6 footers for faster currents, 7 ft oars for still water. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I have a 12 foot boat, and the oars are 6 feet long. My boat is pretty wide, though, and I mostly use a motor with it. You might be okay with slightly shorter oars
There are many ways to do this.. And none are wrong... As for 8 foot dinghy with a 12 foot oars, it may looked kindly odd 1) is half the length of boat 2) twice the beam width plus 6 As for the distance between hand grips... Depend on the person.. Myself I like to leave a space about a width of my fist
The oars for my little 8' tender which is approx 4' beam are 5'5. Both seem to be about right. I did at at first us ethe Mirror dinghy oars for the tender but I found them Ok but just a bit too long. Your average supplied plastic oars are usually totally useless-I lenghthened mine by over a foot and I have long arms. When you put the oars forward before dipping in the water you should not be having to drastically lean forward with your arms splayed out to contact the water. 04-05-12, 17:48 #3.