On the job, clinical nurse specialist roles can vary depending on their specialty, but general tasks include: 1  Optimizing patient care by working with nursing staff. 2  This includes evaluating current practices, reviewing alternatives, consultations with patient care managers and providing education to staff. Find out about their daily tasks. A clinical nurse specialist (CNS) is a venerable one-man show with five major responsibilities on their shoulders: Clinical practice, research, teaching, consulting and management.
The clinical nurse specialist (CNS) is the clinical leader for a program or area of nursing practice within UMHS. The advanced knowledge and skills required for this role include clinical expertise in a focus area, evidence-based practice, collaboration, consultation, education, mentoring, and change leadership. 
Clinical Nurse Specialist Job Description and Duties. Clinical nurse specialists work in hospitals, clinics, medical offices and other health care facilities. They are usually experts in a specific area, such as gerontology, cardiovascular health or public policy. A clinical nurse specialist must be a registered nurse who obtains the additional education and experience to specialize. Graduate programs typically offer specific areas of specialization such as oncology, women's health or stem cell transplants.
Clinical nurse specialists are problem-solvers and leaders. Find out about their daily tasks. A clinical nurse specialist (CNS) is a venerable one-man show with five major responsibilities on their shoulders: Clinical practice, research, teaching, consulting and management. Health care doesn't operate with one set of guidelines, so a CNS is vital to the managed care movement
Clinical Nursing Specialist Job Responsibilities. Clinical nursing specialists are greatly involved in patient care. They play a very important role in case management and work closely with medical staff to evaluate solutions for patients. Clinical Nurse Specialist Training and Education Requirements. Clinical nursing specialists are required to have a master’s degree, majoring in clinical nurse specialist. The program takes between 2 and 3 years. In addition, they must obtain a practicing license for the state in which they intend to practice.
As a rule, nurse practitioners practice primary patient care. For example, they might work in family medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, or geriatric care. Clinical nurse specialists, like specialists among doctors, provide care that's specific to a given illness, patient population, or type of medical problem. They're also widely used in emergency rooms and critical care settings, either on their own or as a complement to physicians. The industry-sponsored Explore Health Careers website quotes annual salaries ranging from $50,800 to $100,000 for clinical nurse specialists, and the RN-operated website GraduateNursingEDU.org cites an average salary of $83,787 per year.
Clinical Nurse Specialist Job Description The following is a full job description for Clinical Nurse Specialist. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Clinical Nurse Specialist along with statistics. The following is a full job description for Clinical Nurse Specialist.
Clinical Nurse Specialist-Home Care Job Description The following is a full job description for Clinical Nurse Specialist-Home Care. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Clinical Nurse Specialist-Home Care along with statistics.
A clinical nurse specialist is an advanced-practice nurse who provides patient care and consultation services for a variety of health care areas. These professionals typically practice medicine, conduct research and manage staff within a specific type of patient population, medical specialty or setting. A clinical nurse specialist must be a registered nurse who obtains the additional education and experience to specialize. Graduate programs typically offer specific areas of specialization such as oncology, women's health or stem cell transplants.