Anthocyanins occur in nearly all plant families and thus in many edible plants. In food, the main sources of anthocyanins are berries, such as blackberries, grapes, blueberries etc, and some vegetables, such as egg-plants (aubergine) and avocado. Other sources include oranges, elderberry, olives, red onion, fig, sweet potato, mango and purple corn. 
Anthocyanins Benefits and Food Sources. By superfoods Leave a Comment. Anthocyanin pigments are responsible for the red, purple, and blue colors of many fruits and vegetables. Are a group of different colored pigments where each base color changes as the cell environment changes. Anthocyanins, plant pigments responsible for the colour of many fruits such as blackberries and cherries, increased insulin production in animal pancreatic cells by 50 %, according to the study. Study, published in the January issue of the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry.
Other high-content sources are black raspberry (589 mg/100g), blueberry (558 mg/100g), cherry (350-400 mg/100g), red raspberry (365 mg/100g), acai berry (320 mg/100g). But gooseberry, which is only greenish-yellowish in color when ripe, has almost undetectable amounts of anthocyanins - 0.07mg/100g of fresh weight. It can be used as is or reconstituted in 6-8 ounces of water and taken as an excellent source of antioxidants, to help ease pain, or right before bedtime as a natural sleep aid-tart cherries are the only food source of melatonin in such high concentrations that it is able to positively affect health.
Food sources: the best sources are most berries-blueberry, cranberry, tart and sweet cherry, bilberry, red raspberry, black raspberry, blackberry, black currant, red currant, mulberry, elderberry, chokeberry, acai berry; also, red and purple grapes, eggplant skins, red cabbage, blood orange, red and purple olives. It can be used as is or reconstituted in 6-8 ounces of water and taken as an excellent source of antioxidants, to help ease pain, or right before bedtime as a natural sleep aid-tart cherries are the only food source of melatonin in such high concentrations that it is able to positively affect health.
Best Sources of Anthocyanins. Food sources of anthocyanins include any type of berry — blueberries, cranberries, strawberries and raspberries. Other good sources include red wine, grapes, cherries, green tea, eggplant and red cabbage. Superfruit Juices. There are many concentrated juice products on the market now that are great sources for anthocyanins. These exotic fruits grow in tropical climates under intense sunlight; because of this, they develop extraordinary amounts of valuable anthocyanins, many of which are not found in any other food source.
Black currant has often been cited as the supplement of choice for anthocyanins in various studies. Plums are juicy, delicious, dark purple fruits that are considered a staple of anthocyanin foods. Purple asparagus has recently been found to contain a rich supply of anthocyanins. Essentially any red-, purple-or blue-skinned berry will most likely have an immense accumulation of anthocyanins. Because white wine does not include grape skins in the fermentation process, red wines are considered a greater source of the antioxidant in comparison. Several varieties of beans are known to have small accumulations of anthocyanins, but the best of the bunch is considered to be kidney beans and black beans.
Summary of Food Sources. Flavonoids are produced by plants, and plant foods are by far our greatest source of these health-supporting phytonutrients. Among all plant food groups, by far it's been fruits and vegetables that have been best studied and most analyzed for their flavonoid content. 
Anthocyanins Food Sources. Blueberry, cranberry, bilberry, black raspberry, blackberry, blackcurrant, cherry, strawberrie, purple grapes, red wine, red cabbage, eggplant. Daily intake of total anthocyanins has been estimated to be between 3 and 215 mg/day. Anthocyanins, plant pigments responsible for the colour of many fruits such as blackberries and cherries, increased insulin production in animal pancreatic cells by 50 %, according to the study. Study, published in the January issue of the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry.
Here are 12 foods that contain anthocyanins. Blackberries & Other Berries. Most berries have good amounts of anthocyanins. Raspberry, blackberry, blueberry, bilberry, elderberry, cranberry, and virtually any blue, purple or red-skinned berry, are likely to have a high concentration of anthocyanins. Since white wine is fermented without grape skins, red wine varietals are a much better source of anthocyanins than white varietals. Plums. These dark, purple fruits are one of the staples of anthocyanin foods. Pomegranates. Anothocyanins are only one of many powerful antioxidants found in pomegranates. Bananas. Many researchers have been surprised to learn that bananas (not noted for their dark color) are a rich source