Once the water pore is created, the spontaneous translocation of lipids within the membrane can occur (Fig. 3) [84] . Interestingly, the average time required for the flip-flop of a lipid across a water pore was found to be around 60 ns. Transbilayer lipid motion has been dubbed flip-flop and it is unfortunate that this rather childish term has stayed in the scientific literature, together with the flippase and floppase terms that designate lipid translocating enzymes.
This paper reviews the current knowledge on the various mechanisms for transbilayer, or flip-flop, lipid motion in model and cell membranes, enzyme-assisted lipid transfer by flippases, floppases and scramblases is briefly discussed, while non-catalyzed lipid flip-flop is reviewed in more detail. Transbilayer lipid motion has been dubbed flip-flop and it is unfortunate that this rather childish term has stayed in the scientific literature, together with the flippase and floppase terms that designate lipid translocating enzymes.
Lipid flip-flops. Fluorescent probes have revealed that flip-flop of glycerophospholipids, such as phosphatidylinositol (PI), across the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) does not depend on the lipid's stereochemistry. The membrane is self-synthesising and glycerophospholipids are made on the cytoplasmic face and have to be flipped to the other side for the membrane to expand uniformly. The rapid movement of glycerophospholipids across the ER membrane is mediated by specific membrane proteins known as flippases.
Figure: Flip/Flop diffusion in bacterial cells B: Labeling Cells in A with TNBS to detect Flip/Flop. Lipids Distribution in Cells. To understand movement of lipids in an actual cell, a better understanding of lipid synthesis and trafficking in cells is important. The PI group can insert into the membrane, anchoring the protein to the bilayer. Protein also appear to induce raft formation. Lipids rafts appear to be enriched in GPI-anchored proteins. Recent studies have shown that the Ebola virus interacts with lipid rafts in the process of entering and exiting the infected cell.
Protein insertion into membranes may also cause flip-flop lipid motion. Martin et al. [39b] studied the insertion of the so-called ‘adenylate cyclase toxin’ from Bordetella pertussis into lipid vesicles. The toxin (1706 aa residues) targets cell membranes, in which it breaks down the permeability barrier. Transbilayer lipid motion has been dubbed flip-flop and it is unfortunate that this rather childish term has stayed in the scientific literature, together with the flippase and floppase terms that designate lipid translocating enzymes.
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells. The cell membranes of almost all living organisms and many viruses are made of a lipid bilayer, as are the membranes surrounding the cell nucleus and other sub-cellular structures. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
Rarely does a molecule flip-flop transversely across the membrane. As temperatures cool, membranes switch from a fluid state to a solid state. The temperature at which a membrane solidifies depends on the types of lipids. Membranes rich in unsaturated fatty acids are more fluid than those rich in saturated fatty acids. Plasma membranes are selectively permeable, regulating the cell’s molecular traffic. Hydrophobic (nonpolar) molecules, such as hydrocarbons, can dissolve in the lipid bilayer and. pass through the membrane rapidly. Polar molecules, such as sugars, do not cross the membrane easily. Transport Membranes. Transport proteins allow passage of hydrophilic substances across the membrane. Some transport proteins, called channel proteins, have a hydrophilic channel that certain. molecules or ions can use as a tunnel. Channel proteins called aquaporins facilitate the passage of water. Other transport proteins, called carrier proteins, bind to molecules and change shape to shuttle. them across the membrane
Phospholipids with certain head groups can alter the surface chemistry of a bilayer and can, for example, serve as signals as well as anchors for other molecules in the membranes of cells. Prokaryotes have only one lipid bilayer-the cell membrane (also known as the plasma membrane). Many prokaryotes also have a cell wall, but the cell wall is composed of proteins or long chain carbohydrates, not lipids.
Maintenance of membrane asymmetry in the resting state cannot be mediated by passive lipid flip-flop alone, since spontaneous translocation of phospholipids across the bilayer has been postulated to be extremely slow (10 −15 s −1), on average a single lipid flip-flop event every 24 h [8] and [9] . Transbilayer lipid motion has been dubbed flip-flop and it is unfortunate that this rather childish term has stayed in the scientific literature, together with the flippase and floppase terms that designate lipid translocating enzymes.