Sometimes, when it comes to carpet and upholstery cleaning, less is more. With the Little Green® Pro, our portable cleaner, it's easy to clean upholstery, stairs, area rugs, cars and RVs. The benefits of our handy portable deep cleaner include: 1  Easy stain cleaning. 2  Lightweight and portable. 3  Removes deep down dirt and stains.
show more I want to steam clean my car. But I need one that is made to clean a car with. Where can I rent one. If there are not too expensive, I will go out and buy one. I could not find any steam cleaners to rent, but amazon did have a cheap one for sale. I don't know if it would be perfect for what you are looking for, but it is worth a try.
Renting a Rug Doctor is simple, effective and affordable! You get a professional level clean for a do-it-yourself price. Rug Doctor machines are easy to use, and you can clean most rooms in as little as 20 minutes. You get professional level results in just one easy pass. Trust Rug Doctor for all your carpet and upholstery cleaning needs
Take advantage of all the Rug Doctor benefits. 1  Cleans carpet as easily as vacuuming. 2  Twice the vacuuming power of other name brand machines. 3  Vibrating brush to deep-clean carpets. 4  Lightweight and easy to use. 5  Helps to remove dirt, allergens and odors. 
Head to your local Lowe's and check out the convenient carpet cleaner rental at the front of the store. A store associate will be happy to assist you and even load the carpet cleaning machine into your car. There’s no need to hire professional carpet cleaners — do it yourself and save. Lowe’s offers BISSELL® Big Green® carpet cleaner rental at all stores.
Best Answer: My local home improvement store rents those. You rent a carpet steam cleaner and also rent the auto carpet attachment. If you can't find one, open up the Yellow Pages and look under Contractors' Equipment Rental.. I could not find any steam cleaners to rent, but amazon did have a cheap one for sale. I don't know if it would be perfect for what you are looking for, but it is worth a try.
If you're already renting a steam or water extraction carpet cleaner for your home once a year or so you should also use the cleaner on your cloth car seats and floor mats rather than chemical upholstery cleaners. The prevailing wisdom to keep cloth seats and carpeted floor mats clean is to never eat while in the car or walk in muddy areas and if you happen to do so make sure you immediately clean the stain.
Please try again later. This episode the Mighty Car Mod team show you how to remove Human Slime from the interior of your car with steam cleaning. We show you how to restore the original look of the factory seats and interior using an intergalactic steam cleaning robot from out of space. Get MAD MCM Stuff at the Official Shop: