Digestion means breaking down complex items into smaller components. Chemical digestion does this by breaking down the chemical bonds that hold the item together. This changes the chemical composition of the item.
• DIGESTION (noun). The noun DIGESTION has 3 senses: 1. the process of decomposing organic matter (as in sewage) by bacteria or by chemical action or heat. 2. the organic process by which food is converted into substances that can be absorbed into the body.
digestion-the organic process by which food is converted into substances that can be absorbed into the body. gastric digestion-the process of breaking down proteins by the action of the gastric juice in the stomach. biological process, organic process-a process occurring in living organisms.
Digestion is the breaking down of chemicals in the body, into a form that can be absorbed. It is also the process by which the body breaks down chemicals into smaller componen … ts that can be absorbed by the blood stream. There are also digestive system disorders.
what does digestion mean? It is the process on which food is broken down inside your body to absorb food particles that have starch, proten, sugar, vitamins and minerals, fibre, fat and water.
2. digestion-the organic process by which food is converted into substances that can be absorbed into the body. gastric digestion-the process of breaking down proteins by the action of the gastric juice in the stomach. biological process, organic process-a process occurring in living organisms.
Digestion means breaking down complex items into smaller  components. Chemical digestion does this by breaking down the  chemical bonds that hold the item together. This cha … nges the  chemical composition of the item. 1 person found this useful.
Digestion. Digestion is the mechanical and chemical breakdown of food into smaller components that are more easily absorbed into a blood stream, for instance. Digestion is a form of catabolism: a breakdown of large food molecules to smaller ones.