Report Abuse. Many geese can live to be 20-25 years old. If you get a goose, be prepared to have it around for quite a while! Actually, be prepared to have a couple of them around for quite a while, as geese by nature hang around in groups and need companionship. In the wild, they usually live for 10-15 years at maximum due to all sorts of problems... Pet geese, kept in houses in diapers (www.thegoosesmother.com), can live to be 50 years old. Geese raised from eggs are affectionate and loyal, smart companions.
LIFE SPAN. Many geese can live to be 20-25 years old. If you get a goose, be prepared to have it around for quite a while! Actually, be prepared to have a couple of them around for quite a while, as geese by nature hang around in groups and need companionship. If you don't want a breeding pair, it's a good idea to get a couple of females, as males may fight. Their enclosure does not have a top over it, but domestic geese generally don't bother trying to fly away. Most of them get too heavy to even attempt it. DIET. For some time, our guys ate scratch feed, grass, and various greens, such as collard and turnip greens, spinach, kale, etc.
domestic geese tend to have a life-span of about 4-10 years, but somtimes, depeding on where they live, like on a farm or in a house as a pet, they are killed before they reac … h their life expectancy for food or because they have been run over or something. 3 people found this useful. 
Pet rabbits have an average lifespan of 8-10 years, but they can live as long as 13, even 14 years. Domestic rabbits that live in labs or farms have a much shorter lifespan. … The lifespan of pet rabbits is between eight to eleven years. I have proof: my rabbit is eleven years old. However, some ferrets can live up to 10 years if you take good care of them.The oldest lived to be 15 or 16. From 6 to 8 years.Anywhere from 5 to 13 years, depending on where you got your ferret (pet store or breeder), how the ferret is cared for, and general luck.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. domestic geese tend to have a life-span of about 4-10 years, but somtimes, depeding on where they live, like on a farm or in a house as a pet, they are killed before they reach their life expectancy for food or because they have been run over or something. However, some ferrets can live up to 10 years if you take good care of them.The oldest lived to be 15 or 16. From 6 to 8 years.Anywhere from 5 to 13 years, depending on where you got your ferret (pet store or breeder), how the ferret is cared for, and general luck.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, geese can live for 20-30 years. In the wild, they usually live for 10-15 years at maximum due to all sorts of problems... Pet geese, kept in houses in diapers (www.thegoosesmother.com), can live to be 50 years old. Geese raised from eggs are affectionate and loyal, smart companions.
Report Abuse. There are different opinions as to the life span of domestic geese. Some say it's between eight to fifteen years, although most experts have said between 20-22 years is the average age for a domestic goose. Thirty years of age isn't uncommon. I believe the record longevity of a domestic goose is about 80 years old. Best Answer: On a discovery channel documentary, they gave the statistics for wild geese (which I have forgotten) - But, I remember them saying that domestic geese were like sharks in captivity in regards to how long they would live. ... Which is ... It depends on how much exercise they get.
 Domestic ducks can live to be 10-15 years old; geese can live 15-20 years.  Geese tend to be territorial and are good at chasing off intruders; they can be aggressive, especially during breeding season. They will typically back off if you wave your arms and move towards them, making noise. 
1 Commitment: Geese can live for 20 years… they are a long-term commitment. 2  Children: Children should never be left unsupervised with Geese and in general, up to the age of 7 years old make too many fast movements and make too much noise, upsetting geese. 1 Water: Domestic geese do not need a pond (they only spend around 10% of their time on water) and a plastic tub or child’s sand pit tub is sufficient for them to be content.
Keeping and looking after domestic geese: Information written from over 30 years experience in breeding exhibition pure breeds-essential facts if you have not kept a goose before. These points are the result of the most frequently asked questions about management as pets and in the garden. 