Being involved in a personal injury car accident can be scary, but it's important to keep calm. Your first steps following a personal injury accident can affect the reimbursement that you get from your car insurance company if you file a claim. Continue reading below to find out the best ways to deal with a car accident that results in bodily injury. You may be inclined to apologize for the accident when you are at the scene or admit fault to your car insurance agent. However, doing so can seriously jeopardize your claim. Instead of assuming the blame for an accident: 1  Get a police report. 2  Give a detailed description of the accident, along with photos.
1 Do not leave the scene. 2  After a possibly grisly accident, you may feel the impulse to get in a cab or a friend's car and just go home. 3  Ignore that impulse, as fleeing the scene of an accident is a crime. 1 Normally, it is a great custom to apologize to someone when you feel you might be at fault, but not after a car accident. 2  A simple Sorry, I wasn't paying attention may turn into an admission of liability if the matter goes to court. 3  Do not lose your cool.
However, there are important things to do at the scene of the accident and soon afterward. Below is a list of things to do after an accident, if possible. Keep this information handy by printing this helpful pamphlet on first steps after an auto accident and storing it in your car. Stay at the Scene. Never leave the accident scene until it's appropriate to do so. 
If you don’t have this evidence to show to a police officer after a citation stop or an accident, you may have to pay a fine and a court may impound your vehicle. If you have an accident and can’t show proof of financial responsibility, you may also lose your driver’s license for up to four years. Ask your insurance company or insurance agent what forms you should fill out and to help you make other necessary reports on the accident. Third, you and the other driver must report the accident to the DMV within 10 days if: 1  the damage to either car is more than $750; or. 2  anyone is injured or killed i
But even with poor impulses, there are a handful of things you shouldn't ever do after a car accident. Insurance and patience can solve many of your car accident woes, as well as remembering what not to do or say. Here are a few suggestions: 1  Do not leave the scene. 2  After a possibly grisly accident, you may feel the impulse to get in a cab or a friend's car and just go home. 3  Ignore that impulse, as fleeing the scene of an accident is a crime. 1 Normally, it is a great custom to apologize to someone when you feel you might be at fault, but not after a car accident. 2  A simple Sorry, I wasn't paying attention may turn into an admission of liability if the matter goes to court. 3  Do not lose your cool.
If you loan your car to someone who has an accident, your insurance can also help pay for the damages. 1  Collision. 2  No matter who is at fault, your collision insurance pays for damages to your car (not your medical expenses), minus the policy deductible. 3  You may have other insurance, too. Ask your insurance company or insurance agent what forms you should fill out and to help you make other necessary reports on the accident. Third, you and the other driver must report the accident to the DMV within 10 days if: 1  the damage to either car is more than $750; or. 2  anyone is injured or killed i
If you have been injured in a car accident contact The Hoffmann Law Firm, L.L.C. to answer your questions and help relieve your financial stress. Most car accident victims are in a state of shock after being struck by another car, truck or commercial vehicle. 1 Contact an experienced car accident lawyer: Speak to a knowledgeable car accident attorney to discuss your case, learn your options and determine if you are entitled to compensation.
1 Report the accident to your insurance company. 2  Report the accident to the Department of Motor Vehicles within 10 days if someone is injured or killed or if damage to either car is more than $750. 3  Make a claim with your insurance company and/or the other driver’s insurance company to pay for your injuries and losses. Ask your insurance company or insurance agent what forms you should fill out and to help you make other necessary reports on the accident. Third, you and the other driver must report the accident to the DMV within 10 days if: 1  the damage to either car is more than $750; or. 2  anyone is injured or killed i