Kombucha is a fermented tea which contains lots of probiotics to improve your health. If you're hesitant to try organic kombucha tea because it's fermented and has a unique smell, take a chance and it may soon become your favorite beverage. Kombucha is an ancient recipe for traditional tea that originated in China. Organic ingredients, like the tea and sugar in organic kombucha, come from farms that do not use synthetic fertilizers or pesticides or genetically engineered foods. It also means that the farm and food have been scrutinized to meet the USDA requirements.
Additionally, kombucha is rich in lactic and gluconic acids, and often, glucoronic acid. Lactic acid plays a vital role in digestion; gluconic acid may ease yeast infections and glucoronic acid is beneficial for liver detoxification. Kombucha (pronounced “kom-BOO-cha”), often called “mushroom tea,” is a fermented beverage made from black or green tea, sugar and a fungus culture. It’s been used as a health tonic for centuries in China, Japan and Russia
By Revital Aranbaev on Apr 17, 2012 in Thriving on a Vegan Diet, Thriving On a Vegetarian Diet. By Revital Aranbaev. Kombucha is a fermented tea that has gained lots of popularity and a substantial following in recent years. Many people drink for its assumed medicinal benefits; it is most commonly known for boosting the body’s immune system. Kombucha is a SCOBY – symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeasts. It is a fermented drink made with tea (usually green or black), sugar, bacteria and yeast. Even though it's often referred to as kombucha mushroom tea, kombucha is not a mushroom; it's a colony of bacteria and yeast
At Maui Kombucha, you'll certainly quench your thirst with the best bubbly kombucha goodness, but you might be surprised to find that you'll also feed your belly and your spirit with our full menu of raw vegan fusion cuisine. 
We use Fair Trade ingredients whenever possible. Like any good kombucha, Barefoot Bucha is unpasteurized (ie. raw). Our kombucha is Certified Organic, vegan, gluten free, and non-GMO. Kombucha typically pairs well with savory and salty foods and is a great digestif after a big meal.
The fermentation process yields a tart, tangy and effervescent (fizzy) sort of cidery-tasting beverage that is ultra-low in calories, high in nutrients (in particular, a broad spectrum of B vitamins), rich in antioxidants (including polyphenols), enzymes, amino acids and loads of probiotics. Kombucha (pronounced “kom-BOO-cha”), often called “mushroom tea,” is a fermented beverage made from black or green tea, sugar and a fungus culture. It’s been used as a health tonic for centuries in China, Japan and Russia
Kombucha tea is a fermented drink made with tea, sugar, bacteria and yeast. Although it's sometimes referred to as kombucha mushroom tea, kombucha is not a mushroom — it's a colony of bacteria and yeast. Kombucha tea is made by adding the colony to sugar and tea, and allowing the mix to ferment. The resulting liquid contains vinegar, B vitamins and a number of other chemical compounds.
Making us stay healthy even that it’s a vegan drink is something that I found to be unusual and I am sure that these things definitely contributed to the well being of the product. Reply. It’s not difficult nor dangerous to make kombucha at home and you don’t need to sterilize your containers. Kombucha (pronounced “kom-BOO-cha”), often called “mushroom tea,” is a fermented beverage made from black or green tea, sugar and a fungus culture. It’s been used as a health tonic for centuries in China, Japan and Russia