The Mach Loop is a set of valleys, located between Dolgellau in the north, and Machynlleth, from where the Mach Loop gets its name, in the south, which are used regularly for low altitude training flights, with flying to heights as low as 250 feet/76 metres from the nearest terrain. If you want a great adrenalin kick, and the absolute chance to get some fantastic photographs, then the Mach Loop it is.
The system of valleys lies 8 miles east of Barmouth and is nestled between the towns of Dolgellau to the north and Machynlleth to the south, the latter of which it takes its name from. The training area is within the Low Flying Area (LFA) LFA7, which covers most of Wales. Aircraft which use the training area include Royal Air Force Tornado, Typhoon, and Hawk jets, as well as U.S. Air Force F-15E Strike Eagles, which are based at RAF Lakenheath in eastern England.
To the south of the Mach Loop there is an area called Tactical Training Area 7T, in which, at specified times, the aircraft may fly as low as 100 feet (30.5 Metres). The Ministry of Defence website has a map showing the location of the low fly areas. The Mach Loop is located within LFA7, which covers the whole of Wales, except for a small section in the north-east of Powys, which is within LFA9.
Machynlleth Loop, more popularly, and relevantly for that matter, known as Mach Loop, is a series of grass covered valleys in central Wales that is known the world over by photographers and aviation enthusiast alike for some of the best military aviation action viewable from terra-firma. The sensation of speed is not felt at altitude, but when you are sunk down between two canyons at 450kts that is another story. The cool thing about Mach Loop, and why so many photographers climb those steep, muddy hills and often camp out to capture the action, is the variety of aircraft that flies by.
Mach Loop. location of Mach Loop in Wales. The Mach Loop (also known as the Machynlleth Loop) refers to a series of valleys in the United Kingdom in west-central Wales, notable for their use as low-level training areas for fast jet aircraft. Aircraft which use the training area include Royal Air Force Tornado, Typhoon, and Hawk jets, as well as U.S. Air Force F-15E Strike Eagles, which are based at RAF Lakenheath in eastern England.
The Ministry of Defence MoF website has a map pictures below showing the location of the low fly areas. The Mach Loop is located within LFA7, which covers the whole area of Wales, except for a minor small section in the north-east area of Powys, which is within LFA9. If you want a great adrenalin kick, and the absolute chance to get some fantastic photographs, then the Mach Loop it is.
The Mach Loop is a series of valleys in the U.K. used for low-level aircraft training. The 8 mile course is flown at altitudes as low as 250 feet and speeds up to 450 knots. Check out these incredible videos of the Mach Loop, and have a great weekend! 
The Mach Loop (also known as the Machynlleth Loop) refers to a series of valleys in west-central Wales, notable for their use as low-level training areas for fast jet aircraft. The training area is within the Low Flying Area (LFA) LFA7, which covers most of Wales. Aircraft which use the training area include Royal Air Force Tornado, Typhoon and Hawk jets, as well as US Air Force F-15E jets, which are based at RAF Lakenheath.
17. The Mach Loop is a set of valleys, situated between Dolgellau in the north, and Machynlleth in the south (and from which the Mach Loop gets its name), which are regularly used for low level flight training, with flying as low as 250 feet (76 metres) from the nearest terrain. The Ministry of Defence website has a map showing the location of the low fly areas. The Mach Loop is located within LFA7, which covers the whole of Wales, except for a small section in the north-east of Powys, which is within LFA9.