S. Driveway Radius (RT): Same as in “R,” but to the right.Both the left and right radius will normally be the same. T. Driveway Width: Identify proposed width of drivewayconsistent with Department Regulation 441.9. U. By: Applicant’s signature is required.
For example, your home may only be twenty feet off the street, or it may be a quarter of a mile away. However, length does come into play when considering adding parking or a turn around to your driveway. At a minimum, parking stalls require 10 feet of width and 20 feet of length.
Single car driveways can be as narrow as 9 feet, or as wide as 12 feet. A 9 foot driveway is quite tight and may have difficulty accommodating larger vehicles such as delivery or trash trucks.
Driveway Regulations A driveway is defined, for the purposes of these regulations, as a paved roadway, constructed within the limits of the public right-of-way or street, connecting the paved or unpaved public roadway with private property for the purpose of providing access for motor vehicles to the private property.
Road Width Most subdivision regulations list the minimum required width of pavement for all of the types of roads allowed in the municipality. In general, a “travel lane” is 9 – 10 feet, so the most narrow requirements are 18 – 20 feet of pavement.
A driveway width of 20 feet provides enough space for two cars to pass, but not quite enough room for parking side-by-side and opening doors. If you need space for parking two cars, consider making your driveway 24 feet wide.
The standard driveway width for residential homes ranges from 9 feet to 24 feet. The width of your driveway will vary based on whether you want a single car drive or double car drive. Additionally, the width may change to accommodate parking or a turn-around, these added features will change the cost of your driveway.
They will give advice on what is required for a driveway and whether the driveway will require a planning application. If no planning application is required they will advise if the driveway is acceptable with regard to council standards. Some of the questions they will require an answer to are: 1  1.
Road construction. The consent of the Driveway Application Section is always required for the installation of a driveway. If the driveway is subject of a planning application this will be dealt with as part of the planning process.