Bile reflux occurs when bile — a digestive liquid produced in your liver — backs up (refluxes) into your stomach and the tube that connects your mouth and stomach (esophagus). Bile reflux may accompany acid reflux, the medical term for the backwash of stomach acids into your esophagus. However, bile acid reflux and acid reflux are separate conditions. Whether bile is important in reflux is controversial.
Vomiting Bile – Causes, Symptoms, Treatment. Bile is a digestive juice produced by the liver. The liver is located just above the stomach in the upper abdomen. After the intake of food, the bile travels from the liver to the gallbladder which then transfers it to the stomach. The bile is then mixed with the food to help its digestion. 
Bile and stomach acid can reflux into the esophagus when another muscular valve, the lower esophageal sphincter, malfunctions. The lower esophageal sphincter separates the esophagus and stomach. The valve normally opens just long enough to allow food to pass into the stomach. Bile and food mix in the duodenum and enter your small intestine through the pyloric valve, a heavy ring of muscle located at the outlet of your stomach.
The Cause of Bile Reflux. Your liver produces bile acid to aid in the digestion and breakdown of fat from the food you eat. Bile acid in your stomach occurs due to a malfunction of your esophagus, a tube that connects your throat to your stomach. At the bottom is a muscle, the sphincter. When working properly, the sphincter only allows food to pass into the stomach
Bile or gall is a dark green to yellowish brown fluid, produced by the liver of most vertebrates, that aids the digestion of lipids in the small intestine. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). 
Bile is a digestive fluid made by the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and discharged into duodenum after food is ingested to aid in the digestion of fat. Normally, the pyloric sphincter prevents bile from entering the stomach. While bile reflux involves fluid from the small intestine flowing into the stomach and esophagus, acid reflux is backflow of stomach acid into the esophagus. These conditions are often related, and differentiating between the two can be difficult.
Biliary reflux, bile reflux or duodenogastric reflux is a condition that occurs when bile flows upward (refluxes) from the duodenum into the stomach and esophagus. While bile reflux involves fluid from the small intestine flowing into the stomach and esophagus, acid reflux is backflow of stomach acid into the esophagus. These conditions are often related, and differentiating between the two can be difficult.
Bile is a greenish-yellow fluid that is essential for digesting fats and for eliminating worn-out red blood cells and certain toxins from your body. Bile is produced in your liver and stored in your gallbladder. Eating a meal that contains even a small amount of fat signals your gallbladder to release bile, which flows through two small tubes (cystic duct and common bile duct) into the upper part of your small intestine (duodenum). Bile and food mix in the duodenum and enter your small intestine through the pyloric valve, a heavy ring of muscle located at the outlet of your stomach.
Bile is a digestive fluid that is made in your liver. Your liver releases bile into your gallbladder, a small, pear-shaped organ located just below your liver in the upper right side of your abdomen. Your gallbladder concentrates and stores the bile until it is needed for digestion. Bile is a fluid made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. Bile is excreted into the small intestine, where it helps digest fat.\. This answer is based on source information from National Cancer Institute.
Bile is a liquid produced by the liver and stored in the gallbladder that aids in the digestion of lipids and transports waste. Bile normally drains from the liver through a number of bile ducts to the duodenum and eventually back to the bile ducts and liver. Bile is a fluid made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. Bile is excreted into the small intestine, where it helps digest fat.\. This answer is based on source information from National Cancer Institute.