Two slices of sourdough bread is 5 points on the Weight Watchers  program. If you purchase Weight Watchers rye or whole wheat bread,  it is only 2 points. 1 Lose Weight and Feel Great on a Weight Watchers Diet Plan If you are unsure where to start in your journey to healthy living by weight loss, a good resource for diet plans and meal ideas is Weight Watchers. 2  Since 1963, Weight Watche….
Two slices of sourdough bread is 5 points on the Weight Watchers  program. If you purchase Weight Watchers rye or whole wheat bread,  it is only 2 points. The points vary depending on your weight, the more you weight the more points you get per day. For example, a person weighting in at about 140lbs would get 29 points per day w … hile a person who weights around 230 pounds would get 35 points.
Best Answer: The type of bread that you are using will make a big difference. Mine are usually 5 points for the sandwich using multi grain bread (1 point for 2 slices), fat-free cheese (1 point), light miracle whip (1 point) and 5 slices of deli turkey (2 points). Some wheat breads can be 2 points per slice or higher
PointsPlus ™ value of 2. Our flavor-packed Weight Watchers® Seedless Rye bread is made with quality ingredients like whole wheat flour. Each satisfying two-slice serving has 90 calories, zero grams trans fat, seven grams of fiber and a PointsPlus value of 2. PointsPlus ™ value of 2. Our 100% Whole Wheat Bread is made simply from 100% whole wheat a classic wheat taste. Each hearty low-fat 2 slice serving has 90 calories, zero grams trans fat and 4 grams of fiber; two slices have a PointsPlus value of just 2!
This Site Might Help You. RE: How many weight watchers points (new system) is there in a piece of white, warburton size bread? I&#39;m not just being lazy, i&#39;m on weight watchers, and i&#39;ve checked the shopping guide i got when i joined, and this is where my problem started.
And it still has 2 grams of fibre and 1 PointsPlus ® value per slice. 100% Whole Wheat Bread. Our classic recipe is made with 100% whole grain whole wheat and each low-fat serving has 2 grams of fibre and 1 PointsPlus value per slice. Perfect for a healthy and tasty sandwich.
Seedless Rye Bread. PointsPlus ™ value of 2. Our 100% Whole Wheat Bread is made simply from 100% whole wheat a classic wheat taste. Each hearty low-fat 2 slice serving has 90 calories, zero grams trans fat and 4 grams of fiber; two slices have a PointsPlus value of just 2!
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: According to the weight watchers online plan manager a piece of bread, any type(white, wheat, rye, etc.) are all 2 POINTS, but you can buy weight watchers brand bread at the store and it is only 1 POINT. Hope that helps. Source(s): RE: How many weight watchers points (new system) is there in a piece of white, warburton size bread? I&#39;m not just being lazy, i&#39;m on weight watchers, and i&#39;ve checked the shopping guide i got when i joined, and this is where my problem started.
A lot of this depends on what type of cheeze, turkey and bread you are using. You need to check their calories, fat, fiber, etc. on each of their package labels. Geneally cheap white bread is pretty high in points so that two slices could be 3-4 points. Mine are usually 5 points for the sandwich using multi grain bread (1 point for 2 slices), fat-free cheese (1 point), light miracle whip (1 point) and 5 slices of deli turkey (2 points).
How many points can you have in Weight Watchers? The points vary depending on your weight, the more you weight the more points you get per day. For example, a person weighting in at about 140lbs would get 29 points per day w … hile a person who weights around 230 pounds would get 35 points.