The renaissance was the rebirth of knowledge from the Roman empire. The capital of the Roman empire being Rome in Italy, therefore making it the natural birthplace of the ren … aissance. Because of its geographical position, foreign trade developed early in Italy. This brought Italy into contact with other cultures and gave rise to urban economy and helped … Italy to accumulate wealth which was an essential factor for the flowering of art and literature.
Claudia Franjul: The movement known as the Renaissance began after the Middle Ages in Italy. It brought a revival of the knowledge of Greece and Rome along with new ideas about the Individual, learning and the arts. Certain conditions allowed Italy to become the birthplace of the Renaissance. First, the crusades had allowed trade to grow, therefore cities grew. People from different places met in these cities and exchanged knowledge. 
Italy, being in the perfect spot to become part of large amounts of the early trade in Europe, quickly became the birthplace of the Renaissance because not only did most trave … ling scholars pass through the town, but the city already had vast artistic influence. Italy had three advantages that made it the birthplace of the Renaissance: thriving cities, a … wealthy merchant class, and the classical heritage of Greece and Rome.
Italy, being in the perfect spot to become part of large amounts of the early trade in Europe, quickly became the birthplace of the Renaissance because not only did most trave … ling scholars pass through the town, but the city already had vast artistic influence. Because of its geographical position, foreign trade developed early in Italy. This brought Italy into contact with other cultures and gave rise to urban economy and helped … Italy to accumulate wealth which was an essential factor for the flowering of art and literature.
Thus, Italy became the birthplace of the Renaissance and went on to influence many great artists and educators. + 7 others found this useful. Jeronimo Rio. 1  La Negritude: The Negritude Movement The Negritude movement was a literary, political, and cultural movement among educated French black people in the 1930s. Because of its geographical position, foreign trade developed early in Italy. This brought Italy into contact with other cultures and gave rise to urban economy and helped … Italy to accumulate wealth which was an essential factor for the flowering of art and literature.
The European Renaissance began in Northern Italy in the 14th century. The Tuscan city of Florence is considered the birthplace of the Renaissance. Gradually, the movement spread from Italy to other parts of Europe. Introduction. The period of European history referred to as the Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. Generally speaking, the Renaissance spanned from the 14th to the 16th centuries, spreading across Europe from its birthplace in Italy.
The Renaissance eventually spread from northern Italy to the rest of Europe. Italy had three advantages that made it the birthplace of the Renaissance: thriving cities, a … wealthy merchant class, and the classical heritage of Greece and Rome. 15 people found this useful
The renaissance was the rebirth of knowledge from the Roman empire. The capital of the Roman empire being Rome in Italy, therefore making it the natural birthplace of the renaissance. Italy had three advantages that made it the birthplace of the Renaissance: thriving cities, a … wealthy merchant class, and the classical heritage of Greece and Rome.
Summary. Florence is often named as the birthplace of the Renaissance. The early writers and artists of the period sprung from this city in the northern hills of Italy. As a center for the European wool trade, the political power of the city rested primarily in the hands of the wealthy merchants who dominated the industry.