Dumbbell clean and presses require stabilization from your trunk, and thus work the muscles of the abdomen, particularly the rectus abdominis, the obliques and the transverse abdominis. When you squat to pick the weights up off the floor and extend the hips, your glutes, hamstrings and quadriceps activate.
Exercise Part 1: The Squat. The power clean involves starting with a barbell in front of you on the floor. Add weighted plates to achieve a weight heavy enough to perform 10 to 12 repetitions in each set. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart and your feet slightly under the bar, but not touching the bar.
Back and Shoulders. The deltoids of the shoulders and trapezius of the back are the primary upper body muscles used during the power clean. The traps are used to shrug the shoulders during the pull phases of the exercise and rotate the shoulder blades during the scoop phase.
The barbell clean is a compound exercise that works many muscle groups to move many joints. This Olympic style exercise uses a barbell or dumbbells, requiring your muscles to exert force in an explosive manner.
While power cleans may sound more like the latest kitchen-scrubbing tool, they are actually an explosive weightlifting exercise. The motion involves lifting a barbell from the floor to your shoulders in a continuous, powerful movement.
The barbell power clean is considered a compound exercise movement, which means multiple muscle groups are utilized in the exercise. Understanding how to correctly perform the power clean can help you maximize muscle-building while performing
Squat Muscles. The first muscle-building position of a barbell power clean is the barbell squat. This move occurs at the start and end of the power clean. The quadriceps muscles in the front of your thigh are the major muscle group worked.
The gluteus maximus is the largest of the hip muscles and is the prime mover of hip extension. During a power clean this muscle is used to thrust your hips forward as you pull the bar from the floor, scoop your body beneath the bar, and extend your hips to stand to the fully erect position at the end of the exercise.
Upright Row Muscles Worked. The second major action of the barbell power clean involves lifting the bar to your shoulders. This part of the exercise resembles a barbell upright row. The major muscle group worked is the lateral deltoid, or the top part of your shoulder muscle.