An example of a simple synovial joint, e.g. a metacarpophalangeal (finger) joint, is shown above-right. More complicated synovial joints may involve more than two bones, may include sesamoid bones e.g. the patella in the knee joint, may include bursae, and may include accessory ligaments.
The carpometacarpal joints are synovial joints between the distal carpal bones and the metacarpals, and the intermetacarpal joints are between the metacarpals. The carpometacarpal joint of the thumb is a saddle-shaped joint between the trapezium and the base of the first metacarpal.
Synovitis is a common condition meaning inflammation of the synovial lining of a joint or tendon sheath (the tunnel the tendon runs through). Tendon sheath synovitis is referred to as tenosynovitis.
The radiocarpal joint is a synovial joint that’s also found in the wrist. The radius articulates with the first row of carpal bones, except for the pisiform. It has a fibrous joint capsule that’s attached to that distal end of the radius and the ulna and to the carpal bones.
The intercarpal joints are synovial joints formed between the individual bones of the proximal row of the carpal bones, between the individual bones of the distal row of carpal bones, and between the proximal and distal rows (the midcarpal joint).
Synovial joints. Synovial joints are the most commonly occurring type of joint, which also produce the greatest range of movements. The movements created at synovial joints allow us to do everyday activities like walking, running, writing and typing.
Synovial joints have a synovial cavity between the articulating bones. This cavity is filled with synovial fluid that reduces friction at the joint, enabling the articulating bones to move freely. The page about types of joints explains the 3 functional classes of joints: 1  synarthroses (immovable joints).
These joints allow a very small amount of movement. 3. Synovial joints – the bones of synovial joints meet in a joint capsule, such as the knee joint where the femur and tibia meet. These joints are the most common and most moveable joints in the human body.