(Answer #1). Atticus is appointed by the court to defend Tom Robinson, a black man who has been accused of raping a young white woman, Mayella Ewell.
Atticus Finch is a heroic character in To Kill A Mockingbird. A hero is a person who is known for certain achievements and qualities. Atticus is known for many qualities he displayed during the novel, as well as various achievements. This makes him a heroic character.
Atticus Finch, one of Maycomb County’s best lawyers, will be defending a black man known as Tom Robinson in a local court case. Mr.Robinson was accused of raping a white woman. It will now be up to the jury to decide whether he will be convicted or not.
Posted on. (Answer #1). Atticus is appointed by the court to defend Tom Robinson, a black man who has been accused of raping a young white woman, Mayella Ewell. Although many of Maycomb's citizens disapprove, Atticus agrees to defend Tom to the best of his ability.
Atticus says that some people think he shouldn’t be working hard at defending Tom Robinson, but for him it basically boils down to self-respect: he couldn’t hold his head up if he caved to public opinion and did less than his best in the man’s defense. Answered by mackayla k #387251 on 9/21/2014 5:36 PM.
Atticus Finch is the father of Scout and Jem Finch, the two main characters of To Kill a Mockingbird. The book is told from Scout's point of view. Atticus is most fondly remem … bered for defending the Negro Tom Robinson in the famous trial against Bob Ewell.
Atticus is a lawyer and also a member of the state legislature, elected by townspeople who respect his honesty even if they don't always approve of his actions. In To Kill A Mockingbird, Tom Robinson is a black man who is on trial for rape. Mayella Ewell has accused Tom of raping her.
Answered by Aslan. Atticus is defending Tom Robinson. Many people in town are critical of Atticus because Tom is a black man accused of raping a white girl. Even Scout and Jem are not immune to people's dispersions.
Atticus says that some people think he shouldn’t be working hard at defending Tom Robinson, but for him it basically boils down to self-respect: he couldn't hold his head up if he caved to public opinion and did less than his best in the man’s defense. Answered by gabriel k #388621 on 9/22/2014 3:48 PM.