The immune system is a complex system of interacting cells whose primary purpose is to identify foreign (“non-self”) substances referred to as antigens. The immune system provides protection from infectious disease by identify most of these microbes as foreign. 1 Helper T-cells (CD4+) are middlemen in the immune response. 2  When they get activated, they proliferate and secrete cytokines that regulate or help effector lymphocyte function. 3  They are known as one of the targets of HIV infection, and the decrease of CD4+ T-cells results in AIDS.
Answers. Best Answer: immunity is defined as the ability of the body to counteract SPECIFIC foreign organisms or agents that possess antigens. vaccinations can provide active artificially acquired immunity through the injection of pathogens or portions of pathogens into the body. 
A: Vaccination is when a vaccine is administered to you (usually by injection). Immunisation is what happens in your body after you have the vaccination. The vaccine stimulates your immune system so that it can recognise the disease and protect you from future infection (i.e. you become immune to the infection). ‘Vaccination’ and ‘immunisation’ are often used interchangeably but their meanings are not exactly the same.
A rabies vaccine for example is a killed vaccine. After a virus whether natural or vaccinated is encountered the immune system makes memory cells that remember how to destroy the virus. When the virus is introduced at a later date the memory cells activate and kill off the virus before any symptoms of illness are seen. The first time you catch the germ (or get a vaccination for it), your body responds to cause immunity, so if you run across the same exact germ again later, your body already knows how to prevent an infection again. See the related questions below for more about vaccines and vaccinations.
Vaccine Immunity. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. The immune system of the body functions to protect it against invasion by germs and microbes. When an individual is vaccinated against a disease or an infection, his or her immune system is prepared to fight the infection. Once vaccinated, when the person is exposed to the bacterium that causes it, the body gears up to fight off the infection. This is a mild episode that often goes unnoticed by the sufferer. B cells. B cells are important in secreting and manufacturing antibodies against the specified antigens of the invading microbes. Antibodies usually work by first latching on to the recognized antigen and then sticking to and coating the microbe.
The vaccination is the introduction of the pathogen in tiny amounts to kick start your immune system so it knows how to deal with the real thing if you encounter the germ in the environment. A vaccine is the medicine made to introduce the pathogen (infection-causing bug) into your body in a vaccination. Having immunity is how your body prevents a second infection by the same germ. The first time you catch the germ (or get a vaccination for it), your body responds to cause immunity, so if you run across the same exact germ again later, your body already knows how to prevent an infection again. See the related questions below for more about vaccines and vaccinations.
Immunity is what you get when you are exposed to a disease, either by contracting the disease or … being vaccinated against it. Your body is then immune to the disease because your immune system know what that virus looks like. Vaccination is getting the dose of vaccine to get immunity. The first time you catch the germ (or get a vaccination for it), your body responds to cause immunity, so if you run across the same exact germ again later, your body already knows how to prevent an infection again. See the related questions below for more about vaccines and vaccinations.
Another way to produce active immunity is by vaccination. Vaccines interact with the immune system and often produce an immune response similar to that produced by the natural infection, but do not subject the recipient to the disease and its potential complications. 1 Helper T-cells (CD4+) are middlemen in the immune response. 2  When they get activated, they proliferate and secrete cytokines that regulate or help effector lymphocyte function. 3  They are known as one of the targets of HIV infection, and the decrease of CD4+ T-cells results in AIDS.
You get immunity by having a vaccination or by having the infection itself. The vaccination is the introduction of the pathogen in tiny amounts to kick start your immune system so it knows how to ... Read More ». http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_the_relationship_between_vaccination_and_immunity. When you are inoculated for MMR, your body develops antibodies to Measles, Mumps and Rubella. The antibodies help you resist those diseases. http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_type_of_immunity_occurs_when_receiving_the_mmr_vaccination.