Mastoid air cells are basically the hollow spaces present in a particular section of the temporal bone of the cranium. There is a deep groove on the medial side of the process as well as a shallow furrow called occipital groove, which houses the occipital artery. Adjacent to this rounded projection of the bone is the styloid process, a spine-like bony protrusion from the base of the temporal bone. Normally, it is fused with the squamous and mastoid portions, and partially separated from the tympanic antrum.
A section of the mastoid process of the temporal bone of the cranium shows it to be hollowed out into a number of spaces, the mastoid cells, which exhibit great variety in their size and number. 
The mastoid process is a conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It is located just behind the external acoustic meatus, and lateral to the styloid process. This part of the skull projects from the temporal bone and is roughly pyramidal or conical in shape. It is also filled with cavities called air cells.
What is the Mastoid Process and Function The mastoid part of the temporal bone houses the mastoid process. Mastoid process is the bony prominence easily felt behind the earlobe. It is one of the key features of the lateral cranium. It is located behind and below the external auditory meatus. 
6. The mastoid process is an inferior extension of the petrous temporal bone of the skull and provides a structural function as an anchor point for the large muscles of the neck. It contains multiple air cells that develop from a single main cavity (the antrum), after the age of about 2. 0. 
: the process of the temporal bone behind the ear that is well developed and of somewhat conical form in adults but inconspicuous in children. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The purpose of the mastoid process is to function as an attachment for particular muscles of the neck. It is situated in the posterior part of the temporal bone. Definition   Mastoiditis is an infection of the mastoid bone of the skull.       Causes, incidence, and risk factors       Mastoiditis is u … sually a consequence of a middle ear infection (acute otitis media). The infection may spread from the ear to the mastoid bone of the skull.
What is the Mastoid Process and Function. The mastoid part of the temporal bone houses the mastoid process. Mastoid process is the bony prominence easily felt behind the earlobe. It is one of the key features of the lateral cranium. It is located behind and below the external auditory meatus. These are cells are connected to the middle ear. Mastoid air cells are covered by mucoperitoneum that is continuous with the tympanic cavity and with the squamous part of the temporal bone [ 1 ]. The mastoid notch is located medial to the mastoid process. It is pierced by stylomastoid foramen in front and mastoid foramen is found on its back. Mastoid notch serves as the site of muscle attachment for the anterior and posterior bellies of the digastrics whose function is to open the mouth [ 2 ]