Cells take on a columnar appearance in the process as they continue to lengthen and narrow. The ends of the neural plate, known as the neural folds, push the ends of the plate up and together, folding into the neural tube, a structure critical to brain and spinal cord development. This process as a whole is termed primary neurulation. Closure of the neural tube is completed when the neural folds are brought together, adhering to each other. While the cells that remain as the neural tube form the brain and spinal cord, the other cells that were part of the neural plate migrate away from the tube as neural crest cells.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Neural crest cells are a transient, multipotent, migratory cell population unique to vertebrates that gives rise to a diverse cell lineage including melanocytes, craniofacial cartilage and bone, smooth muscle, peripheral and enteric neurons and glia. Underlying the development of neural crest is a gene regulatory network, described as a set of interacting signals, transcription factors, and downstream effector genes that confer cell characteristics such as multipotency and migratory capabilities.
In mammals, the cranial neural crest cells (which form facial and neck structures) migrate while the neural folds are elevating (i.e., prior to neural tube closure), whereas in the spinal cord region, the crest cells wait until closure has been completed. Embryonic Development of the Neural Tube: The neural tube is the embryonic structure that ultimately forms the brain and spinal cord. It is formed in a process called neurulation, in primary and secondary neurulation processes. In mice, primary neurulation prevails in the rostral sections of the embryo, while secondary neurulation occurs in the caudal section
After gastrulation, neural crest cells are specified at the border of the neural plate and the non-neural ectoderm. During neurulation, the borders of the neural plate, also known as the neural folds, converge at the dorsal midline to form the neural tube. Underlying the development of neural crest is a gene regulatory network, described as a set of interacting signals, transcription factors, and downstream effector genes that confer cell characteristics such as multipotency and migratory capabilities.
4-4 Fig. 4-2. The neural plate folds in stages to form the neural tube. (Scanning electron micrographs of chick embryos provided byG. Schoenwolf.) A. Position of the neural plate in relation to the nonneural ectoderm, the mesoderm, and the endoderm.B. Cells from the rostral truncal neural crest also colonize the theesophagus and cardiac stomach.The vagal (adjacent to somites 1-7) and sacral neural crest (posterior to somite28) will also be thesubject of a subsequent lecture (HD 19). The progeny of these cells form the enteric nervous system(Figure 4-16).
The neural plate is a key developmental structure that serves as the basis for the nervous system. Opposite the primitive streak in the embryo, ectodermal tissue thickens and flattens to become the neural plate. The region anterior to the primitive knot can be generally referred to as the neural plate. Closure of the neural tube is completed when the neural folds are brought together, adhering to each other. While the cells that remain as the neural tube form the brain and spinal cord, the other cells that were part of the neural plate migrate away from the tube as neural crest cells.
Ectoderm and endoderm are the primary embryonic germ layers which induce the two secondary germ layers, mesoderm and neural crest cells. Given the diverse structures made by neural crest cells, some consider it to be a fourth germ layer of the embryo, in addition to ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm. THE NEURAL CREST. A unique group of important embryonic cells called neural crest cells were a vertebrate innovation. Neural crest cells develop into a number of cell types including sensory neurons, adrenergic neurons, cholinergic neurons, Rohon-Beard cells, satellite cells, and glial cells.