Laws can be neutral on ethical issues, or they can be used to endorse ethics. The prologue to the U.S. Constitution states that ensuring domestic tranquility is an objective of government, which is an ethically neutral statement. Civil Rights laws, on the other hand, promote an ethical as well as legal commitment.
873). Laws also permit many actions that will not bear ethical scrutiny. In other words, what the law permits or requires is not necessarily what is ethically right. For instance, laws allow disloyalty toward friends, the breaking of promises that do not have the stature of legal contracts, and a variety of deceptions.
Legal ethics is a term used to describe a code of conduct governing proper professional behavior, which establishes the nature of obligations owed to individuals and to society.
“Legal” and “ethical” are often used and breathed in the same sentence. Though there is a relationship between the two, the concepts are mutually exclusive of each other. They often clash and work with each other. Both words are often used in the same context in terms of issues and social situations.
2.Both “legal” and “ethical” are considered as standards and methods to conduct a certain kind of behavior and action. 3.However, there is the difference in scope and application. “Legal” can apply to a more widespread scope while “ethical” applies on an individual basis.
Researching issues in professional responsibility is a complex process and requires use of materials beyond judicial decisions and statutes. At the core of issues of legal ethics are the rules governing the conduct of lawyers and judges that are adopted by each state.
In determining what is a legal act or an ethical act, the bases are also different. A legal act is an act that meets the terms of rules and regulations of a particular but massive and collective entity, like a society or a country.
The branch of philosophy that defines what is good for the individual and for society and establishes the nature of obligations, or duties, that people owe themselves and one another. In modern society, ethics define how individuals, professionals, and corporations choose to interact with