Nina-Meaning of Nina. Tweet. Nina is used predominantly in the English, French, German, Italian, Polish, Russian, and Swahili languages, and its origin is Italian. The name developed as a short form of names ending in '-nina'. Another possible origin is from the Spanish 'nina' meaning 'little girl'. The name was first taken up by English speakers in the 19th century. Nina is a pet form of the name Ann (English and Greek). Nina is also a variation (English and Hungarian) of Anna. Nina is also a pet form (Catalan, Czech, English, French, Hebrew, Indian, Polish, Russian, Slavic, Spanish, and Swahili) of the name Antonina (English, Italian, Polish, Russian, Spanish, and German).
The name Nina has the following meaning: Little girl child in Spanish. Also a form of Ann, meaning grace. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. Nina originates from the Spanish language. See other suggested Spanish girl baby names. 
Nina is also a Hindi name meaning pretty eyes.. ...and the name of a Babylonian goddess. ...and a nickname for names ending in-nina, like Antonina and Penina. Native American name meaning mighty warrior. On a lot of baby name sites you will find that it says it is of Spanish origin and means little girl.
Nina /ni-na/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced NEE-nah, NYNE-ah. It is of Spanish and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Nina is little girl; great-granddaughter. Also diminutive of Ann (Hebrew) He (God) has favored me. In Slavic, a short form of names ending with-nina, such as Antonina. Neena is also a Hindi name meaning pretty eyes. Nina was the name of one of Christopher Columbus's three ships. Ballerina Dame Ninette de Valois.
Spanish Meaning: The name Nina is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Nina is: Girl. Hebrew Meaning: The name Nina is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Nina is: Grace. English Meaning: The name Nina is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Nina is: Favor; grace. Aintroduced to Britain in the 13th century. Russian Meaning: The name Nina is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Nina is: Russian name Anne: favour; grace.
Nina is a feminine Russian name derived from original Georgian form Nino. Being a Christian name, it dates back to Saint Nino. The name Nina may originate from the old Slavic word Ninati, meaning dreamer or dream. Other origins for the name Nina include-Native American, Hebrew, Spanish, English and Croatian. In Europe it is a short form of names such as Marina and Katharina. Another meaning: God was gracious or God has shown favor in Hebrew; mother in Swahili; flower in Old Greek, and fire in Quechua. 
Meaning & History. Short form of names that end in nina, such as ANTONINA or GIANNINA. It was imported to Western Europe from Russia and Italy in the 19th century. This name also coincides with the Spanish word nina niña meaning little. girl Short form of names that end in nina, such as ANTONINA or GIANNINA. It was imported to Western Europe from Russia and Italy in the 19th century. This name also coincides with the Spanish word nina niña meaning little. Girl Expand Name. links
Another possible origin is from the Spanish 'nina' meaning 'little girl'. The name was first taken up by English speakers in the 19th century. It a nickname for Anne, Antonia, and names ending with-nina. A Russian diminutive form of Anne (gracious, full of grace) and Antonia. 