How to Bake Codfish. Cod is a delicious fish that will literally melt in your mouth when it is prepared correctly. While recipes vary, baking is widely understood as the best method of preparing cod for its health and taste benefits.
4. Cook for 15 to 20 minutes. Place the cod fillets in the oven and cook until the fish begins to brown and can be flaked easily with a fork. 1  If using frozen fish fillets instead of fresh or thawed, add another 5 to 10 minutes to the overall cook time. Season both sides of the cod fillets. 1  Note that you can use both fresh and frozen fillets, but the latter will take longer to cook. 2  The salt and black pepper should be added according to your own tastes, but if you are uncertain about how much to add, try 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of each.
Sprinkle the cod with salt and pepper. Season both sides of the cod fillets. 1  Note that you can use both fresh and frozen fillets, but the latter will take longer to cook. 2  The salt and black pepper should be added according to your own tastes, but if you are uncertain about how much to add, try 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of each.
Place fillets on a spray-coated baking sheet; bake for 5 minutes. Remove from oven. Baste cod fillets with olive oil mixture. Bake an additional 7 to 8 minutes for frozen cod or 3 to 5 minutes for fresh/thawed fish, adjusting cook time for smaller fillets. Bake just until fish is opaque throughout.
1 Poaching: I like to add the fish to the cooking liquid while the liquid is room temperature. 2  I bring it to a simmer, and then turn the heat to low, cover, and cook for about 15 minutes. Cooking time will vary greatly depending not only on the cut of fish but also the cooking method. In general, your cod will be done when it reaches an internal temperature of 54°C (130°F), regardless of cooking method. Here are some times/temperatures that work for me: 1  Sous Vide: 10 minutes or more at 56°C, followed by a quick broiling/grilling/blow torch. 2  Baking (thick fillets): 15–20 minutes at 218°C (425°F)
4. Fry the cod in 350-degree oil. You can fry a test piece first to make sure your batter is at the right consistency. It will take five to eight minutes to cook it all the way through. Try to keep the oil at or near 350 degrees F for the duration of the cooking time. 5. 
Even if you have frozen cod and limited time, you can still make a complete — and impressive — meal. Most recipes and chefs suggest you thaw cod before cooking it in the oven. However, if you are strapped for time, you can still bake frozen cod without waiting hours for the fish to thaw. Plus, baking frozen cod will still allow you to collect juices from the pan and create a light sauce for your main course. 
At 300F I bake a chicken for 1/2 hour per pound. At 350F I bake it for 20 minutes per pound. Always test it before preparing to serve it, stabbing the thigh meat, the juices s … hould run clear, and no pinkness or redness. Or with a meat thermometer it should read at least 165F. If I stuff the bird, I increase the cooking time by the weight of the stuffing. A 5 pound roaster stuffed with 2 pounds of stuffing is 7 pounds and I'll bake it for 2 2/3 to 3 1/2 hours. Think 8-10 minutes per inch of thickness, i.e. if … you have 2 pieces of 1-1/2 inch thickness and weighing about 16-20 ounces, do not cook it for any more than 20-30 minutes. Your oven should be set no high than 350 F or 160 C. Grilled cod fish is done once it starts to flake.