1 You can also right-click any highlighted section and choose Copy from the dropdown menu. 2  Once the address is copied, paste that address into another program by clicking a blank field and pressing Ctrl + V or Cmd + V. 3  You may also right-click any highlighted section and choose Paste from the dropdown menu. 1 After the address has been highlighted, press Ctrl + C or Cmd + C on the keyboard to copy it. 2  You can also right-click any highlighted section and choose Copy from the dropdown menu. 3
If you want to copy an Internet (Web) address to paste into an email message or to paste into a Word® document, follow these steps: 1  To copy the address, move your mouse pointer to the right of the Internet address and then click your left mouse button: Then click Edit on the menu bar and then Paste (or click your right mouse button and then click Paste). You will then see the Internet address appear in your document. When you create a Works Cited page at the end of your document, you will need to place this address within angle brackets, as shown below.
It is a more visual way to follow the copy and paste process. 1  Switch to Internet Explorer (or another browser). 2  Select the URL in the browser. 3  Right click on the mouse. 4  Select Copy from the drop down menu. 5  The URL goes to the Clip Board. 6  Switch to Word. 7  Put the cursor where you want place the URL. 8  Right click on the mouse. 
Step 2. Press the Ctrl and C keys simultaneously to copy the link; if you are using a Mac, press Command and C instead. Related Reading: How to Recall Things Copied Onto Your Clipboard on a Mac. Step 3. Open your Web browser, select the text in your browser's address bar and delete it. Press Ctrl and V simultaneously to paste the URL you just copied into the address bar. If you are on a Mac, press Command and V.. Press Enter to go to the website
You can use this feature to copy text, emails or URL addresses. The Internet Explorer browser has this function built into its list of commands that you can turn on and off. The copy and paste feature can help you make accurate copies of information from the Internet. 1 You can use this function to copy a website address and paste it into the top address bar of your browser. 2  If there is a phrase or name you want to research, this function lets you copy and paste the target into a search engine. 3  Be careful to only click the enable box on your custom level lis
In Firefox, you right click the image and select 'Copy Link Location. This give you the address of the jpeg. Then I can paste it in the forum and the jpeg shows up. (Displays the album cover). When I try to right click in IE8 there isn't a 'Copy Link Location', so I don't know how to get the address of just the jpeg. 
Copy an entire Web page to your notes. In Internet Explorer, open the page that you want to copy to your notes. On the Internet Explorer command bar, click Send to OneNote. Tip If the Send to OneNote button is not visible, click Tools on the Internet Explorer command bar, and then click Send to OneNote. Copy information from a Web page to your notes. If you use Internet Explorer and Microsoft Office OneNote 2007 on the same computer, you can use the Send to OneNote button to quickly copy some or all of the information on
To start the copy and paste process, you need to highlight the text or link that you would like to copy. To do this, move your cursor to the text you would like to copy. For PC Users Click the left button on your mouse and hold it down. While holding the button down, drag your cursor over the words that you would like to copy. For Mac Users Click anywhere on your mouse and hold it down.