In Need for Speed: Carbon you race against rival street racing crews in a quest to conquer territories and districts. The player is in charge of its own crew and can hire specialists that can provide the player with much needed help both during and off races. 1 Canyon Racing-This mode involves four different type of races, Canyon Duel, Canyon Race, Canyon Checkpoint and Canyon Drift. 2  Checkpoint-Similar to the Toolboth races in Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 3  Sprint.
Need for Speed ProStreet. Need for Speed ProStreet is a ground-breaking Need for Speed experience where you're thrust to compete head to head a... 1  Forza Motorsport 4Forza Motorsport 4 takes innovative leaps forward in the racing genre, delivering stunningly beautiful graphics, a ro... What starts in the city is settled in the canyons as Need for Speed Carbon immerses you into the world's most dangero... 1  Need for Speed ProStreet
Need for Speed Carbon. What starts in the city is settled in the canyons as Need for Speed Carbon immerses you into the world's most dangero... 1  Need for Speed ProStreetNeed for Speed ProStreet is a ground-breaking Need for Speed experience where you're thrust to compete head to head a...
1 Drift-Drift racing makes a return in Carbon, a mode that was made popular i n Need for Speed: Underground and Need for Speed: Underground 2 but was cut out of Carbon's predecessor Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 1 Canyon Racing-This mode involves four different type of races, Canyon Duel, Canyon Race, Canyon Checkpoint and Canyon Drift. 2  Checkpoint-Similar to the Toolboth races in Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 3  Sprint.
Race types. 1  Drift-Drift racing makes a return in Carbon, a mode that was made popular i n Need for Speed: Underground and Need for Speed: Underground 2 but was cut out of Carbon's predecessor Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 1 Canyon Racing-This mode involves four different type of races, Canyon Duel, Canyon Race, Canyon Checkpoint and Canyon Drift. 2  Checkpoint-Similar to the Toolboth races in Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 3  Sprint.
Need for Speed: Carbon is a racing game and the tenth game in the Need for Speed franchise .It is a direct sequel to Need for Speed: Most Wanted and is the first Need for Speed to be released on all seventh generation consoles. 1 Canyon Racing-This mode involves four different type of races, Canyon Duel, Canyon Race, Canyon Checkpoint and Canyon Drift. 2  Checkpoint-Similar to the Toolboth races in Need for Speed: Most Wanted. 3  Sprint.
Need For Speed is back to its former glory – and it’s mainly thanks to the pit crew at Ghost Games. A studio with enormous pedigree, the team currently working on Need For Speed includes members who previously worked at Turn 10 and Rockstar. After a year in the garage, Need For Speed is back for a nitrous-fuelled reboot. Need For Speed © EA. Racing games have traditionally come in two flavours: simulation and arcade – and currently simulation is in pole position
Accepted Answer. matwootton answered: use the e-brake to start the drift, but i only use it on tight successive corners, The best TIP, is to try lots of different cars until you find one you like, I still struggle with drift but by tying different cars, it becomes a lot easier. What starts in the city is settled in the canyons as Need for Speed Carbon immerses you into the world's most dangero... 1  Need for Speed ProStreetNeed for Speed ProStreet is a ground-breaking Need for Speed experience where you're thrust to compete head to head a...