Riparian water rights (or simply riparian rights) is a system for allocating water among those who possess land along its path. It has its origins in English common law. Riparian water rights exist in many jurisdictions with a common law heritage, such as Canada, Australia, and states in the eastern United States. Under the riparian principle, all landowners whose property adjoins a body of water have the right to make reasonable use of it as it flows through or over their property. If there is not enough water to satisfy all users, allotments are generally fixed in proportion to frontage on the water source
Riparian areas are the lands adjacent to streams, rivers, lakes and wetlands, where the vegetation and soils are strongly influenced by the presence of water. 1 The type and abundance of vegetation is a tip-off to identifying riparian areas. 2  Vegetation is different and it attracts livestock, wildlife and humans. 3  Riparian areas are productive and can be reliable producers of forage, shelter, fish, wildlife and water.
A riparian zone or riparian area is the interface between land and a river or stream. Riparian is also the proper nomenclature for one of the fifteen terrestrial biomes of the earth. Plant habitats and communities along the river margins and banks are called riparian vegetation, characterized by hydrophilic plants
Riparian doctrine. In dealing with water rights, the riparian doctrine states that water belongs to the person whose land borders a body of water. Riparian owners are permitted to make reasonable use of this water provided it does not unreasonably interfere with the reasonable use of this water by others with riparian rights. Taxonomy upgrade extras: wex. wex:
riparian rights. n. the right of the owner of the land forming the bank of a river or stream to use water from the waterway for use on the land, such as for drinking water or irrigation. Consistent in these questions is that a riparian owner may not act to deny riparian rights to the owner of downstream properties along the waterway, meaning the water may not be dammed and channelled away from its natural course.
Riparian zones may be natural or engineered for soil stabilization or restoration. These zones are important natural biofilters, protecting aquatic environments from excessive sedimentation, polluted surface runoff and erosion. Riparian is also the proper nomenclature for one of the fifteen terrestrial biomes of the earth.
What is aRiparian Buffer? The term riparian buffer is usedto describe lands adjacent tostreams where vegetation isstrongly influenced by the pres-ence of water. They are often thin-lines-of-green containing nativegrasses, flowers, shrubs and treesthat line the stream banks. Theyare also called vegetated bufferzones. 
riparian. adj. 1. (Environmental Science) of, inhabiting, or situated on the bank of a river. 2. (Law) denoting or relating to the legal rights of the owner of land on a river bank, such as fishing or irrigation. n. Adj. 1. riparian-of or relating to or located on the banks of a river or stream; riparian land.
Riparian buffers are vegetated areas next to water resources that protect water resources from nonpoint source pollution and provide bank stabilization and aquatic and wildlife habitat. The formal definition of riparian buffer is diverse and depends on the individual or group defining the term. 