1 On my devices, I have three keyboards configured: English, Italian and Emoji. 2  You can still use the default iOS emoji within Facebook Messages by enabling them in your device's keyboard settings. 3  Thanks to emoji, the subtlety of first generation emoticons could be lost on younger generations. A small digital image or icon used to express an idea or emotion in electronic communication: emoji liven up your text messages with tiny smiley faces. More example sentences. 1 
1. Emoji Is Codes. Emoji is the Japanese term for picture characters. These picture characters are standardized and built into [most Japanese] handsets. Therefore, Emoji can roughly be translated to standardized icons with a meaning. The key word here is standardized. What makes Emoji special is that it was developed by scientists. Users rejoiced at having emoticons at their fingertips. Emoji made their text 'come alive'. Wireless network operators loved them too because DoKoMo engineers figured out a way to transfer an emoji as single character.
Origin. The original set of Emoji, consisting of 172 ideograms framed in 12×12 pixel squares, were invented by Japanese mobile software engineer Shigetaka Kurita in 1998 and officially released as part of NTT DoCoMo’s mobile internet platform i-mode in February 1999.
Emoji characters vary slightly between platforms within the limits in meaning defined by the Unicode specification, as companies have tried to provide artistic presentations of ideas and objects. For NTT DoCoMo's i-mode, each emoji is drawn on a 12×12 pixel grid. When transmitted, emoji symbols are specified as a two-byte sequence, in the private-use range E63E through E757 in the Unicode character space, or F89F through F9FC for Shift JIS. The basic specification has 176 symbols, with 76 more added in phones that support C-HTML 4.0
Emoji; is the Japanese term for the ideograms or smileys used in Japanese electronic messages and webpages. Originally meaning pictograph, the word literally means picture + letter. Some emoji are very specific to Japanese culture, such as a bowing businessman, a face wearing a face mask, a white flower used to denote brilliant homework or a group of emoji representing popular foods: ramen noodles, dango, onigiri, Japanese curry, and sushi.
Find the meaning of an Emoji. Emoji started in Japan so many of the icons are closely tied to the Japanese culture. Some of them are quite foreign. If you want to know what the emoji meanings we have a list of them. click here. Convert emoji to a viewable format. Send emoji to friends. Look up the meaning of an emoji. 
The core emoji set in Unicode 6.0 consisted of 722 characters, of which 114 characters map to sequences of one or more characters in the pre-6.0 Unicode standard, and the remaining 608 characters map to sequences of one or more characters introduced in Unicode 6.0. For NTT DoCoMo's i-mode, each emoji is drawn on a 12×12 pixel grid. When transmitted, emoji symbols are specified as a two-byte sequence, in the private-use range E63E through E757 in the Unicode character space, or F89F through F9FC for Shift JIS. The basic specification has 176 symbols, with 76 more added in phones that support C-HTML 4
Origin of EMOJI. borrowed from Japanese, literally, “ pictograph, ” from e “ picture, drawing ” + moji “ letter, character ”. First Known Use: 1997. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. 