Early research of RDI's effectiveness published in 2005 indicates that RDI may be more effective that some other treatments. When compared to a control group with autism, children whose families participated in RDI showed greater improvement on the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule and more independence at school. Some families are using RDI in addition to ABA and other teaching methods. More than 5,000 families were receiving RDI in 2009, according to an article by Dr. Gutstein. A goal of the family-centered program is normalization of family life for all members..
As with The Son-Rise Program, Floortime/DIR and RDI understand the importance of social connection and relationship development for children with autism. And, as with The Son-Rise Program, Floortime/DIR and RDI focus on these areas (as opposed to ABA, which focuses primarily on behavior change). For that, we have a great deal of respect for these two programs
Many children with autism and related disorders exhibit unwanted behaviors, such as head-banging or slapping others. For parents and other caregivers, trying to reduce these behaviors can be difficult and frustrating. In fact, efforts at discouragement often end up making the behaviors more frequent. Each child with an autism spectrum disorder will have his or her own individual pattern of autism. Sometimes, a child's development is delayed from birth. Other children with autism develop normally before suddenly losing social or language skills. In some children, a loss of language is the impairment.
The RDI Program for ASD is a tailored set of objectives, extending from the Family Guided Participation Program and intended to target the core deficits of individuals with the diagnostic distinction, Autism Spectrum Disorder. 
When children learn the value and joy of personal relationships, according to RDI, they will find it easier to learn language and social skills. RDI is based on the idea that children with autism missed some or many of the typical social development milestones as infants and toddlers. They can be given a second chance to learn these skills through play, guided participation and other activities, according to RDI. Some families are using RDI in addition to ABA and other teaching methods. More than 5,000 families were receiving RDI in 2009, according to an article by Dr. Gutstein. A goal of the family-centered program is normalization of family life for all members..
RDI is a family-based program, where trained consultants support families to alter their interaction and communication styles. There is a period of parent education, followed by an assessment of both the child and the child-parent relationship. 
Relationship Development Intervention (RDI). Description: Relationship Development Intervention is a treatment program proposed for autistic spectrum disorders. It was developed and trademarked by the husband/wife team of Steven Gutstein, PhD and Rachelle K. Sheely, PhD, clinical psychologists. The focus of RDI is to teach parents and others how to motivate and enable those with autism to experience dynamic social relationships through “social and emotional development activities” such as passing a “hot potato” rapidly back and forth or duplicating facial expressions shown in pictures.
Relationship Development Intervention® (RDI) is a family-based, behavioral treatment designed to address autism’s core symptoms. Developed by psychologist Steven Gutstein, Ph.D., it builds on the theory that “dynamic intelligence” is key to improving quality of life for individuals with autism. He designed RDI to help parents re-build their relationship with their child in a gradual, systematic way. In 2001, Dr. Gutstein published his first book on RDI, Autism Aspergers: Solving the Relationship Puzzle. Since then, he has written several more books on RDI, including The RDI Book (2009).
Relationship Development Intervention (RDI®) is a parent-based clinical treatment that tries to fix the social problems at the heart of autism, such as friendship skills, empathy and the desire to share personal experiences with others. Some families are using RDI in addition to ABA and other teaching methods. More than 5,000 families were receiving RDI in 2009, according to an article by Dr. Gutstein. A goal of the family-centered program is normalization of family life for all members..
The RDI Family Consultation Program is an ongoing training and supervision program for parents of children with autism, ADHD, Tourette Syndrome and other developmental or neurological issues. RDI empowers parents to become effective guides for their neurologically vulnerable children. Dr. Steven Gutstein, Developer of the RDI Program. Often called the missing piece in autism treatment, the RDI Program was developed by Dr. Steven Gutstein, who is an internationally renowned pioneer in the field of developmental disabilities.