Insulin: A natural hormone made by the pancreas that controls the level of the sugar glucose in the blood. Insulin permits cells to use glucose for energy. Cells cannot utilize glucose without insulin. Diabetes: The failure to make insulin or to respond to it constitutes diabetes mellitus. A person with this type of diabetes must inject exogenous insulin (insulin from sources outside the body). In type II diabetes, the beta cells produce insulin, but cells throughout the body do not respond normally to it.
NPH insulin is an insulin with an intermediate-duration of action. It has an onset of action about 2 hours following administration and a duration of action of 18 to 26 hours. Its maximal effect is 4 to 12 hours after administration. A person with this type of diabetes must inject exogenous insulin (insulin from sources outside the body). In type II diabetes, the beta cells produce insulin, but cells throughout the body do not respond normally to it.
regular insulin, a fast-acting insulin prescribed in the treatment of diabetes mellitus when the desired action is relatively prompt, intense, and short-acting. It can be mixed with long-acting forms of insulin. 
There is not a precise correlation between the peak blood level of insulin and the glucose level as the decline in glucose associated with peak insulin effect is somewhat delayed meaning that it takes time for the the insulin to work. It means when the insulin is having its strongest effect. When this occurs will be dependent on what type of insulin it is. Your blood sugar should be neither highest or lowest, but within the target range – assuming you're doing it right that is. Mr TEL · 5 years ago.
Insulin. A hormone secreted by the pancreas in response to high blood sugar levels that induces hypoglycemia. Insulin regulates the body's use of glucose and the levels of glucose in the blood by acting to open the cells so that they can intake glucose. INSULIN AND GLUCAGON FUNCTIONS. A hormone secreted by the beta cells of the pancreas. As a drug, insulin is used principally to control diabetes mellitus. Insulin therapy is required in the management of type 1 diabetes mellitus because patients with this illness do not make enough insulin on their own to survive.
Insulin is a medicine that lowers blood glucose (sugar). There are several types of insulin. Each type of insulin has a certain time period in which it works. In order to understand insulin action, it is helpful to know the onset, peak and duration of the insulin you take. 1  Onset refers to when the insulin starts to work. 2  Peak refers to when the insulin works hardest.
~~Humulin 70/30 is a mixture of 70% Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30% Human Insulin Injection. It is an intermediate-acting insulin combined with the more rapid onset of action of regular insulin. The duration of activity may last up to 24 hours following injection. Human insulin 70/30 is a mixture of 70% Human Insulin Isophane Suspension and 30% Human Insulin Injection. It is an intermediate-acting insulin combined with the more rapid onset of action of regular insulin.
• Rapid breathing. Causes of Adult Onset Diabetes. The onset of diabetes happens when the body cannot produce enough insulin or when the body cannot control what it does with the insulin it produces. 
In people with type 1 diabetes, the pancreas no longer makes insulin. The beta cells have been destroyed and they need insulin shots to use glucose from meals. People with type 2 diabetes make insulin, but their bodies don't respond well to it. Some people with type 2 diabetes need diabetes pills or insulin shots to help their bodies use glucose for energy. Insulin cannot be taken as a pill because it would be broken down during digestion just like the protein in food. It must be injected into the fat under your skin for it to get into your blood.