The jackfruit tree is a widely cultivated and popular food item throughout the tropical regions of the world. Jackfruit is the national fruit of Bangladesh, by name Kanthal (কাঁঠাল) in Bengali language. The Jackfruit tree can produce about 100 to 200 fruits in a year. The flesh of the jackfruit is starchy and fibrous and is a source of dietary fiber. The flavor is comparable to a combination of apple, pineapple, mango, and banana. Varieties are distinguished according to characteristics of the fruit's flesh. 1  In Bangladesh the fruit is consumed on its own.
The jackfruit tree is well suited to tropical lowlands, and its fruit is the largest tree-borne fruit, reaching as much as 35 kg (80 lb) in weight, 90 cm (35 in) in length, and 50 cm (20 in) in diameter. The flesh of the jackfruit is starchy and fibrous and is a source of dietary fiber. The flavor is comparable to a combination of apple, pineapple, mango, and banana. Varieties are distinguished according to characteristics of the fruit's flesh. 1  In Bangladesh the fruit is consumed on its own.
The edible jackfruit is made of easily digestible flesh (bulbs); a 100-g portion of edible raw jackfruit provides about 95 calories and is a good source of the antioxidant vitamin C, providing about 13.7 mg. Jackfruit seeds are rich in protein. The fruit is also rich in vitamin B 6, potassium, calcium, and iron. The flesh of the jackfruit is starchy and fibrous and is a source of dietary fiber. The flavor is comparable to a combination of apple, pineapple, mango, and banana. Varieties are distinguished according to characteristics of the fruit's flesh. 1  In Bangladesh the fruit is consumed on its own.
Jackfruit nutrition facts. Jackfruit is one of its own kind of tropical fruits, recognized for its unique shape, size, and fruity flavor of its bulbs that can be appreciated from a distance. The fruit is deliciously sweet in taste. Jackfruit is a good source of antioxidant vitamin-C, provides about 13.7 mg or 23% of RDA. Consumption of foods rich in vitamin C helps the body develop resistance against infectious agents and scavenge harmful free radicals. It is one of the rare fruits that is rich in B-complex group of vitamins.
Origin and Distribution No one knows the jackfruit's place of origin but it is believed indigenous to the rainforests of the Western Ghats. It is cultivated at low elevations throughout India, Burma, Ceylon, southern China, Malaya, and the East Indies. It is common in the Philippines, both cultivated and naturalized. The tree is native and common in the wild in Malaya up to an altitude of 4,200 ft (1,300 m) and is cultivated throughout Malaysia and by many preferred to jackfruit. It is grown from seed or budded onto self-seedlings or jackfruit or other Artocarpus species. Seedlings bear in 5 years.
Origin of TENDER. Middle English tendur grant of a license, from Anglo-French tendre offer, tender, from tendre, verb, to stretch, hold out, offer, direct, from Latin tendere to stretch, direct — more at thin. First Known Use: circa 1543. 22 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  tender. 2  tender annual. 3  tender-hefted. 4  tender-minded. 5  tender-nosed. 6  tender of amends. 7  tender offer. 8  tender of issue. 9  cage tender. 10  card tender. 11  foot tender. 12  fork-tender. 13  hook tender. 14  legal tender. 15  lock tender. 16  machine tender. 17  net tender. 18  nurse-tender. 19  skip tender. 20  switch tender. 21  texas tender. 22  water tender.
Tender raw jackfruit, called Panasakaya in Telugu and Kathal in Hindi, is an exotic vegetable in India and is considered as vegetarian meat because of its meat like texture and flavor. The tender jackfruit is used to prepare curries and biryani while the semi-ripe fruit is used to prepare chips. The fully ripe jackfruit is devoured as a fruit and is also used to prepare desserts. The seeds of the jackfruit are edible and usually boiled or roasted over hot coal and eaten. Fresh tender jackfruit is available in our farmer’s market. Bought some recently and prepared Jackfruit Biryani over the weekend.
In South India, the jackfruit is a popular food ranking next to the mango and banana in total annual production. There are more than 100,000 trees in backyards and grown for shade in betelnut, coffee, pepper and cardamom plantations. The tree is native and common in the wild in Malaya up to an altitude of 4,200 ft (1,300 m) and is cultivated throughout Malaysia and by many preferred to jackfruit. It is grown from seed or budded onto self-seedlings or jackfruit or other Artocarpus species. Seedlings bear in 5 years.