Ethanol /ˈɛθənɒl/ , also commonly called ethyl alcohol, drinking alcohol, or simply alcohol is the principal type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages, produced by the fermentation of sugars by yeasts. It is a neurotoxic psychoactive drug and one of the oldest recreational drugs used by humans. Ethanol is a volatile, flammable, colorless liquid with a slight chemical odor. It is used as an antiseptic, a solvent, a fuel, and, due to its low freezing point, the active fluid in post-mercury thermometers.
It is sometimes called ethyl alcohol, grain spirit or moonshine – but is commonly referred to as just ‘alcohol’.Ethanol (and its derivatives) has a long history of different uses – in industry (as a solvent), food (in alcoholic beverages), medicine (as a sterilising agent), transport (as fuel) and agriculture. 
Ethanol is an alternative fuel produced from starch contained in grains such as corn, grain sorghum, barley and sugarcane through a fermentation and distillation process that converts starch to sugar and then to alcohol (ethanol). Ethanol can also be produced from cellulosic biomass such as wheat straw, corn stalks (called stover), sawdust, rice hulls, paper pulp, wood chips, energy cane, sorghum, miscanthus grass and switchgrass, all of which contain cellulose and hemicellulose, which can be converted into sugars and then fermented into ethanol.
Ethanol is a renewable fuel made from various plant materials collectively known as biomass.. Studies have estimated that ethanol and other biofuels could replace 30% or more of U.S. gasoline demand by 2030. 
1 Glucose Fermentation. 2  The glucose is converted to ethanol, through a process called fermentation. 3  Fermentation is a series of chemical reactions that convert sugars to ethanol. 4  The fermentation reaction, which is caused by yeast or bacteria that feed on the sugars, produces ethanol and carbon dioxide. 1 The glucose is converted to ethanol, through a process called fermentation. 2  Fermentation is a series of chemical reactions that convert sugars to ethanol. 3  The fermentation reaction, which is caused by yeast or bacteria that feed on the sugars, produces ethanol and carbon dioxide. 4  Pentose Fermentation.
Ethanol is a renewable fuel made from various plant materials collectively known as  biomass .. More than 95% of U.S. gasoline contains ethanol, typically E10 (10% ethanol, 90% gasoline), to oxygenate the fuel and reduce air pollution. Ethanol is also available as E85, or high-level ethanol blends. This fuel can be used in flexible fuel vehicles, which can run on high-level ethanol blends, gasoline, or any blend of these. Another blend, E15, has been approved for use in newer vehicles, and is slowing becoming available.
Ethanol is produced from biomass mostly via a fermentation process using glucose derived from sugars (sugar cane, sugar beet and molasses), starch (corn, wheat, grains) or cellulose (forest products) as raw materials. In this form, it is renewable. 
Ethanol is a renewable, domestically produced alcohol fuel made from plant material, such as corn, sugar cane, or grasses. Using ethanol can reduce oil dependence and greenhouse gas emissions. Ethanol fuel use in the U.S. has increased dramatically from about 1.7 billion gallons in 2001 to about 13.2 billion in 2013. 1. E85 (Flex Fuel). E85, also called flex fuel, is an ethanol-gasoline blend containing 51% to 83% ethanol, depending on geography and season—summer blends tend to have more ethanol while winter blends have less. 4 E85 can be used in FFVs, which are specially designed to run on gasoline, E85, or any mixture of the two.
Ethanol fuel is ethanol (ethyl alcohol), the same type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages. It is most often used as a motor fuel, mainly as a biofuel additive for gasoline. The first production car running entirely on ethanol was the Fiat 147, introduced in 1978 in Brazil by Fiat. Nowadays, cars are able to run using 100% ethanol fuel or a mix of Ethanol and gasoline (aka flex-fuel). It is commonly made from biomass such as corn or sugarcane. World ethanol production for transport fuel tripled between 2000 and 2007 from 17 billion to more than 52 billion liters. From 2007 to 2008, the share of ethanol in global gasoline type fuel use increased from 3.7% to 5.4%