Pre-Medical. Can anybody give me insight as to why multiple pressors / combinations of pressors are used on the post-op CT patients, and when to use which pressor combinations. I'm a med student, and although its easy to read about what each pressor does, it is harder to understand how they are used in combination. Pressors KILL PATIENTS if they aren't adequately volume resuscitated by WORSENING ischemia. Coastie said: ↑. So, in the midst of intern year, the MICU (even with 100 hour work weeks) is a bright light amongst ward months.
July 2013 Medical Direction and Practices Board WHITE PAPER Use of Pressors in Pre-Hospital Medicine: Proper Indication and State of the Science Regarding Proper Choice of Pressor BACKGROUND Shock is caused by a reduction of cardiac output that leads to poor perfusion. There are multiple causes of shock. 6) TRAUMA/GI BLEEDS/HYPOVOLEMIC SHOCK There is no role for pressors in hypovolemic shock. The solution is to stop the bleeding and replace lost blood with new blood. In the prehospital environment, there is often no access to blood, therefore, IV crystalloids (saline or Ringer’s) are the chosen volume expanders.
The word “pressor” is usually used to mean the first kind. Another word that describes these drugs (both kinds) is “vasoactives”, which is to say: affecting blood pressure, or heart rate, or both. The major use for pressors is in the treatment of one kind of shock or another. . Of course, it’s lots more complicated than that, and as always, most of the information in all of these articles is written “with a lot of lies thrown in” – there are shelves of textbooks that have been written on each subject that we try to cover in a few pages.
Pressors and Vasoactives. Here’s an update of the update of our first-ever article. As usual, please remember that these articles do not mean to be the final opinion on anything! They are only meant to reflect our own experience and knowledge, which is – scary – getting up to about 50 years combined. . Of course, it’s lots more complicated than that, and as always, most of the information in all of these articles is written “with a lot of lies thrown in” – there are shelves of textbooks that have been written on each subject that we try to cover in a few pages.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Vasoconstriction is the narrowing of the blood vessels resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessels, in particular the large arteries and small arterioles. The process is the opposite of vasodilation, the widening of blood vessels. Generalized vasoconstriction usually results in an increase in systemic blood pressure, but it may also occur in specific tissues, causing a localized reduction in blood flow. The extent of vasoconstriction may be slight or severe depending on the substance or circumstance.
Some patients are in shock, despite what appears to be normal blood pressure. Children and young adults are classic examples of patients who do not initially drop their blood pressure when they first fall into shock. Hypotension in adults is defined as a systolic blood pressure less than 90mm Hg. 6) TRAUMA/GI BLEEDS/HYPOVOLEMIC SHOCK There is no role for pressors in hypovolemic shock. The solution is to stop the bleeding and replace lost blood with new blood. In the prehospital environment, there is often no access to blood, therefore, IV crystalloids (saline or Ringer’s) are the chosen volume expanders.
Pressor: Causing a rise in blood pressure. A pressor base is a substance (chemically classified as a base) capable of raising the blood pressure. A pressor nerve is a nerve that, when stimulated, increases the blood pressure. A pressor reflex is a nerve reflex that constricts arterioles (small blood vessels) and thereby increases the blood pressure. A pressor substance is any substance that elevates arterial blood pressure.
“Blood pressure medicines” come in a couple of varieties: there are some that make blood pressure go up, and there are those that make it go down. The word “pressor” is usually used to mean the first kind. Another word that describes these drugs (both kinds) is “vasoactives”, which is to say: acting on blood vessels. The major use for pressors is in the treatment of one kind of shock or another.
Pressor Drugs for Treating Hypotension. Pressor drugs are used to treat hypotension resulting from cardiogenic shock, circulatory shock (including septic), hemorrhagic shock, and hypotension that sometimes occurs during surgical anesthesia. Arterial pressure can be raised by increasing cardiac output and by constricting the systemic vasculature. Most pressor drugs are sympathomimetic agents that mimic the effects of sympathetic adrenergic activation on the heart (cardiostimulatory drugs) and blood vessels (vasoconstrictor drugs). Some of these drugs increase heart rate and cardiac contractility by stimulating cardiac beta 1 -adrenoceptors (beta-agonists). 