Create the yellow gold of alfalfa honey from primary colors, using a dominant mixing color such as cadmium yellow light, a bright orange yellow. Add a little cool red such as quinacridone red while mixing in a bit of ultramarine, a purple blue. 4. Create a blueberry honey paint color, which features a redder, darker honey gold. Combine cadmium yellow light with a little more quinacridone red and ultramarine blue than when mixing lighter honey golds. Consider using darker varieties of gold ochre alone, especially when the tone is more orange red than yellow.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Oil painting the color gold involves mixing a large variety of golden tones, such as yellows, oranges, browns, reds and greens, in order to convey the iridescent quality of the color. 
To make gold acrylic or oil paint, begin by mixing equal parts of yellow and brown with a brush. If you're just practicing, you can start with a 1/8 teaspoon or less of each and begin by dabbing your brush into the brown paint and blending it into the yellow to see how the shade adjusts with increasing amounts.
Mix the pale orange gold of sourwood honey with primary colors by using cadmium yellow light as the dominant color while adding cadmium red light, a bright orange red. Add a tiny amount of ultramarine blue to darken the hue while maintaining a light overall orange gold tone. 4. Create a blueberry honey paint color, which features a redder, darker honey gold. Combine cadmium yellow light with a little more quinacridone red and ultramarine blue than when mixing lighter honey golds. Consider using darker varieties of gold ochre alone, especially when the tone is more orange red than yellow.
To create gold in watercolor, use yellow ochre for the highlighted sections and mix the yellow with raw sienna and carmine for the shadows. Begin with a 2-to-1-to-1 ratio of yellow ochre, raw sienna and carmine. If you're just practicing, you can start with a 1/8 teaspoon or less of each and begin by dabbing your brush into the brown paint and blending it into the yellow to see how the shade adjusts with increasing amounts.
Going for the Gold. Squeeze a dime-sized amount of yellow paint onto the paint palette or paper plate. Mix in a small quantity of brown paint (approximately one part brown to 10 parts yellow), using the palette knife. Otherwise, a drop of dish detergent should do the trick. Mix in a small quantity of white paint (approximately two parts white to 10 parts yellow). White will add to the opacity of the paint as well as lighten the actual color, so be careful not to overdo it. If you mix in too much white, however, don't panic. Just blend in additional brown and yellow in equal amounts
Gold uses oxide, which can produce unexpected results on the wall. Gold has many colors, ranging from light parchment to the deepest coin gold. You may have an existing can of gold paint that you want to use as an accent color, but requires darkening. Use the correct paint base when you want a specific gold color. A light base with pigment-hiding qualities accepts minimum amounts of tint to create colors such as vanilla and pale yellow, while a medium base will accept more pigment to produce mid-range tones like harvest gold. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Many have suggested mixing black with white, to make gray and then mixing the gray with the yellow. Others have said using brown. My advice is get a nice clean pallet of colours and mix it about. Usually mixing red,blue and yellow to get brown. Try adding brown and white to the yellow to get a gold kind of colour. You could even try using yellowie gold and adding gold sparkles (found in many craft stores) to give it the glint of gold. Basically you need to experiment a little bit. Use small quantities first, and when you think you've got it, go for it! 