Definition. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, when an employee is paid on a salary basis, this means essentially that she receives regular pay on a regular basis, and that this amount doesn't fluctuate in regard to the quality or quantity of work actually performed. For example, you may not be permitted to dock a salaried employee's pay for partial days of absence. You have the freedom to create your own policy for sick pay, so that, although your employees enjoy a certain level of financial security, they can't take advantage of you.
If an employee works 8 hours in a day, if that is what they are required to work, then the employer can not dock them for an hour or 2 if the employee did not miss an hour or 2. To be considered salaried, you have to look at the employer's classification of salaried. With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c). . These requirements are outlined in the FLSA Regulations (promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Salary can mean monthly or annual pay. It also means that you are paid a set amount, for example $50,000 a year, to work regardless of how many hours you work a week. Salary is over a years time. When a company put you on salary you do not get overtime pay. But You DO NOT get docked time for when you are sick. So When you figure your own salary just take the (amount an hour you are looking to make) Time the weeks in a year (52). I always round it up just a little bit.
Deductions. The circumstances under which you may deduct from an employee's salary vary. For example, you may not be permitted to dock a salaried employee's pay for partial days of absence. You have the freedom to create your own policy for sick pay, so that, although your employees enjoy a certain level of financial security, they can't take advantage of you.
Salary. A salary is a form of periodic payment from an employer to an employee, which may be specified in an employment contract. It is contrasted with piece wages, where each job, hour or other unit is paid separately, rather than on a periodic basis. 
Base Pay. An employee's base pay is the fixed compensation received by that worker for fulfilling the roles related to his job. A worker's base pay is generally expressed in terms of what the worker can earn in one year, what he earns in one hour or what is earned over the course of the job, for temporary positions. If employees sign contracts for a $50,000 annual salary, that is what they will earn over the course of the year. Salary pay usually means that a worker earns a fixed amount agreed on between him and his employer. This amount can be affected by work performance and worker responsibilities. While salary pay is generally for full-time workers, part-time employees can earn a pro rata salary.
Answer by Lemonkitten614. Confidence votes 7. A salary employee means that you are paid a yearly salary, not an hourly or weekly salary. Although you may be paid weekly or bi-monthly, etc, the amount is a prorated per payday. 
Negotiating. For the employer, offering a paid salary means negotiating. Naturally, employees considering accepting a salaried position want to make sure that they're paid as much as they think they'e worth --- and although you may want to compensate them accordingly, you have your bottom line to think about. For example, you may not be permitted to dock a salaried employee's pay for partial days of absence. You have the freedom to create your own policy for sick pay, so that, although your employees enjoy a certain level of financial security, they can't take advantage of you.
Salaried employee means the employer pays the person a monthly or bimonthly rate. For example, when hired you are told you will be paid $3000/mth or $1500/every two weeks, you are not given an hourly salary as your pay rate. An employer decides if they want to hire someone as a salaried or hourly employee. It is completely up to the employer to designate. With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c). . These requirements are outlined in the FLSA Regulations (promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor).
In this case, calculating overtime requires an extra step or two. For example, if the salaried, non-exempt employee works for an organization that has a 35-hour workweek and earns $50,000 per year, the weekly salary equals $961.53. The hourly rate for this employee is, therefore, 961.53 divided by 35, or $27.47. These are salaried, non-exempt workers who are paid a fixed rate for an agreed-upon number of hours each week. When salaried, non-exempt employees work more than 40 hours in a workweek, they receive overtime pay that's 1.5 times their equivalent hourly rate.