Costa Rica is a democratic republic with a very strong system of constitutional checks and balances. Executive responsibilities are vested in a president, who is the country's center of power. There also are two vice presidents and a 15-member cabinet. 
The Executive branch is made up of the President of the Republic who is elected every four years through a general election. The presidency is won by popular vote in Costa Rica's multi party system. The President is both the Chief of State and the Head of Government. The vice-presidents and cabinet members are appointed by the president.
COSTA RICA'S GOVERNMENT Costa Rica is a democratic republic. Under the 1949 constitution, all citizens are guaranteed equality before the law, the right to own property, the right of petition and assembly, freedom of speech and the right of habeas corpus. Costa Rica has a very strong system of constitutional checks and balances. Executive responsibilities are vested in a president, who is the country's center of power. There also are two vice presidents and a 15-member cabinet. The president and 57 Legislative Assembly deputies are elected for 4-year terms.
The politics of Costa Rica take place in a framework of a presidential representative democratic republic, with a multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the president and his cabinet, and the President of Costa Rica is both the head of state and head of government. Legislative power is vested in the Legislative Assembly. The president and 57 Legislative Assembly deputies are elected for 4-year terms. Costa Rica is a republic with a strong system of constitutional checks and balances. Voting is compulsory in Costa Rica but it is not enforced. The position of governor in the seven provinces was abolished in 1998. There are no provincial legislature
Government structure. Costa Rica is a democratic, free and independent republic. Its government is popular, representative, alternative and responsible, exercised by three supreme powers which are distinct and independent of each other: Executive Power, Legislative Power and Judicial Power. The Executive Power is composed by the President of the Republic, two Vice presidents and a Cabinet of Government chosen by the President. The President of the Republic is, simultaneously, Head of Government and Head of State.
The Government of Costa Rica. Costa Rica is a democratic republic. Under the 1949 constitution, all citizens are guaranteed equality before the law, the right to own property, the right of petititon and assembly, freedom of speech and the right of habeas corpus.
Overview. Costa Rica is a Democratic Republic and Republic whose current leader is Chief Executive Laura Chinchilla Miranda. The chief executive in Costa Rica typically has a term length of 4 years. Costa Rica's Legislature has 57 seats, and the last legislative elections were in 2010. Type of Government. 
Costa Rica is a democratic republic, as defined by the 1949 Constitution, which guarantees all citizens and foreigners equality before the law, the right to own property, the right of petition and assembly, freedom of speech, and the right to habeas corpus. Unfortunately, Costa Rica's government employees have nurtured bureaucratic formality to the level of art. Corruption is part of the way things work, though to a lesser degree than in other Latin American countries.