We call the major salivary glands the parotid, submandibular, and sublingual glands. They all secrete saliva into your mouth, the parotid through tubes that drain saliva, called salivary ducts, near your upper teeth, submandibular under your tongue, and the sublingual through many ducts in the floor of your mouth.
Submandibular glands are located on each side of your jaw below the jawbone. Sublingual glands sit on the bottom of your mouth under your tongue. Additionally, hundreds of small (minor) salivary glands deposit saliva from ducts around your mouth.
Lymph nodes are small, bean shaped glands that are part of the lymphatic system. There are major groups of lymph nodes in the neck. Cancers that start in the mouth and oropharynx can spread to these lymph nodes because they are close by.
Lymph nodes are small glands that filter lymph, the clear fluid that circulates through the lymphatic system. They become swollen in response to infection and tumors. Lymphatic fluid circulates through the lymphatic system, which is made of channels throughout your body that are similar to blood vessels.
The three major salivary glands are the parotid gland, submandibular gland (also called the submaxillary gland), and sublingual glands. Saliva drains into the mouth through small tubes called ducts. 1  The parotid gland makes 25% of the saliva and drains into the mouth near the upper teeth.
Besides these glands, there are many tiny glands called minor salivary glands located in your lips, inner cheek area (buccal mucosa), and extensively in other linings of your mouth and throat. Salivary glands produce the saliva used to moisten your mouth, initiate digestion, and help protect your teeth from decay.
Lymph nodes in your neck. Like other parts of the body, the head and neck contain lymph nodes (also called lymph glands). These small, bean shaped glands are part of the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes are often the first place cancer cells spread to when they break away from a tumour.
Lymph nodes are found throughout your body. They are an important part of your immune system. Lymph nodes help your body recognize and fight germs, infections, and other foreign substances. The term swollen glands refers to enlargement of one or more lymph nodes.
Lymph nodes become swollen in response to illness, infection, or stress. Swollen lymph nodes are one sign that your lymphatic system is working to rid your body of the responsible agents. Swollen lymph glands in the head and neck are normally caused by illnesses such as: 1  ear infection.