Composite materials are generally used for buildings, bridges, and structures such as boat hulls, swimming pool panels, race car bodies, shower stalls, bathtubs, storage tanks, imitation granite and cultured marble sinks and countertops. Composite materials are also becoming more common in the realm of orthopedic surgery. Carbon composite is a key material in today's launch vehicles and heat shields for the re-entry phase of spacecraft. It is widely used in solar panel substrates, antenna reflectors and yokes
While composites and plastics have their benefits, comfort on a hot day is not one of them. Composites and plastics can get so hot, you can't walk on them barefoot, Rossi says. Capped composites are no different. The plastic layer surrounding the composite holds heat, Jellema says. 1 Plastic: 100 percent plastic decking is stain resistant and won't crack, warp or splinter. 2  It doesn't require any finishing. 3  Some plastic decking is made from new plastic; others are partially or completely recycled. 4  Composite: This decking is made from wood fibers (usually recycled maple sawdust) and recycled plastic.
Learn the basic information on composite and plastic materials. Understand why they are unique, and the how their properties create unique benefits. 
Definition. A composite is when two or more different materials are combined together to create a superior and unique material. This is an extremely broad definition that holds true for all composites, however, more recently the term composite describes reinforced plastics. Background on Composites. Examples of Composites. The most common example of a composite in a broad sense is concrete. In this use, structural steel rebar provides the strength and stiffness to the concrete, while the cured cement holds the rebar stationary.
Composites tend to wear out sooner than silver fillings in larger cavities, although they hold up as well in small cavities. Updated: March 2007. A composite filling is a tooth-colored plastic and glass mixture used to restore decayed teeth. Composites are also used for cosmetic improvements of the smile by changing the color of the teeth or reshaping disfigured teeth. 
Polycarbonates (PC) are a group of thermoplastic polymers containing carbonate groups in their chemical structures. Polycarbonates used in engineering are strong, tough materials, and some grades are optically transparent. They are easily worked, molded, and thermoformed. Due to its low weight and high impact resistance, polycarbonate is the dominant material for making automotive headlamp lenses. However, automotive headlamps require outer surface coatings because of its low scratch resistance and susceptibility to ultra violet degradation (yellowing).
Advertisement. Wood plastic composite is a hybrid material composed of natural wood and plastic fiber. Saw dust from fiber fillers like pulp, peanut hulls, and bamboo are mixed with new or waste plastic powder, from materials such as polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride, polypropylene, and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene. As a result of their high cellulose content, wood plastic composites can be treated in a similar fashion as wood, but they are also moisture-and rot-resistant. Wood plastic composite (WPC) that consists of polyethylene (PE) and wood sawdust tends to be used primarily in building and structural components. WPC comprised of wood sawdust and polypropylene (PP), on the other hand, is more commonly used for automotive and consumer products
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Polycarbonate is a versatile, tough plastic used for a variety of applications, from bulletproof windows to compact disks (CDs). The main advantage of this material over other types of plastic is its great strength combined with light weight. While acrylic is 17% stronger than glass, polycarbonate is nearly unbreakable. Bulletproof windows and enclosures as seen inside banks or at drive-throughs are often made of this plastic.