The urine anion gap is either positive or negative and can be used when the causes of normal anion gap acidosis are unclear. A positive urine anion gap is seen in conditions of type 1 and type 2 renal tubular acidosis versus almost every other cause of normal anion gap acidosis (diarrhea). 
There are several conditions that a low anion gap can indicate. These medical conditions that a low anion gap in the medical setting are hemorrhage, nephritic syndrome, intestinal obstruction and liver cirrhosis. 
Negatively charged molecules are called ANIONS. in your situations when anion gap is low that indicates your blood pH is low due to increased production of H+ by the body or the inability of the body to form bicarbonate (HCO3-) in the kidney. The Anion Gap is an approximate measurement of ions, that is molecules with a charge, either negative or positive. Sodium and potassium are positively charged and therefore called cations; this is why they are often represented as Na+ and K+ respectively.
Too high of an. anion gap level can mean that there is acidosis (too much acid in the blood) due to diabetes mellitus. The high anion gap level can also be due to lactic acidosis, in which the high level of acid is due a. buildup of a substance called lactic acid. The anion gap measurement is taken from the blood serum or blood plasma. Blood serum is the clear, thin, and sticky fluid part of the blood that remains after the blood has changed from a liquid into a solid.
Anion gap: A measurement of the interval between the sum of routinely measured cations minus the sum of the routinely measured anions in the blood. The anion gap = (Na+ + K+) - (Cl- + HCO3-) where Na-is sodium, K+ is potassium, Cl-is chloride, and HCO3- is bicarbonate. The anion gap can be normal, high, or low. A high anion gap indicated metabolic acidosis, the increased acidity of the blood due to metabolic processes. A low anion gap is relatively rare but may occur from the presence of abnormal positively charged proteins, as in multiple myeloma
Best Answer: Anion gap: A measurement of the interval between the sum of routinely measured cations minus the sum of the routinely measured anions in the blood. The anion gap = (Na+ + K+) - (Cl- + HCO3-) where Na-is sodium, K+ is potassium, Cl-is chloride, and HCO3- is bicarbonate. A low anion gap is relatively rare but may occur from the presence of abnormal positively charged proteins, as in multiple myeloma. Last Editorial Review: 3/29/2002. Source(s): http://www.medterms.com/script/main/art....
The Anion Gap is an approximate measurement of ions, that is molecules with a charge, either negative or positive. Sodium and potassium are positively charged and therefore called cations; this is why they are often represented as Na+ and K+ respectively. These two are the main cations measured in the blood. The Anion Gap is increased when there are excessive anions/acids in the blood. This is either from too much acid production or insufficient removal of acids (either through the lungs, stomach, or kidneys).
The anion gap can be normal, high, or low. A high anion gap indicated metabolic acidosis, the increased acidity of the blood due to metabolic processes. A low anion gap is relatively rare but may occur from the presence of abnormal positively charged proteins, as in multiple myeloma. Last Editorial Review: 3/29/2002. Source(s): http://www.medterms.com/script/main/art....
Anion gap: The anion gap is a calculation in which you subtract the sum of the negative ions in the blood (chloride, bicarbonate) from the sum of the positive ions (sodium, potassium). Often potassium is left out because it has only a very small effect. 