Curcumin is a bright-yellow color and may be used as a food coloring. The curcuminoids are natural phenols that are responsible for the yellow color of turmeric. Curcumin can exist in several tautomeric forms, including a 1,3-di keto form and two equivalent enol forms. The enol form is more energetically stable in the solid phase and in solution.
These curcuminoids give turmeric its yellow color and curcumin is used as a yellow food colorant and food additive. Curcumin is obtained from the dried rhizome of the turmeric plant, which is a perennial herb that is cultivated extensively in south and southeast Asia. The rhizome or the root is processed to form turmeric which contains 2% to 5% curcumin
Curcumin, is an anti-inflammatory molecule in the turmeric root, a relative of ginger. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years as a medicinal preparation and a preservative and coloring agent in foods. Curcumin was isolated as the major yellow pigment in turmeric; chemically diferulomethane, and has a polyphenolic molecular structure similar to other plant pigments (eg. As turmeric contains an average of 5-10% curcumin, the daily intake of curcumin is approximated in India is thought be about 125 mg. Importantly incooking curries, curcumin is often dissolved and extracted into fat, eg.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Curcumin is a component of the Indian spice turmeric (Curcumin longa), a type of ginger. Curcumin is one of three curcuminoids present in turmeric, the other two being desmethoxycurcumin and bis-desmethoxycurcumin. Curcumin is obtained from the dried rhizome of the turmeric plant, which is a perennial herb that is cultivated extensively in south and southeast Asia.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Curcumin is the active ingredient in turmeric, a spice in the ginger family used in cooking and for medical purposes. Used by doctors and health care providers in Asian cultures, this supplement is thought to have anti-inflammatory, antiviral and antioxidant properties. Curcumin is used as a supplement in treatment of several medical conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis, ulcers, scabies, heartburn, bursitis, hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis), osteoarthritis and AIDS.
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders. It is also used for headaches, bronchitis, colds, lung infections, fibromyalgia, leprosy, fever, menstrual problems, and cancer.
Turmeric also has been used for centuries in traditional Indian and Chinese medicine. Usually mixed into ointments, it's a go-to for stomach and bowel problems, arthritis, and fatigue. The compound in turmeric thought to help with these conditions is curcumin. 
Curcumin (/ˈkərkjuːmən/) is a diarylheptanoid. It is the principal curcuminoid of turmeric, which is a member of the ginger family (Zingiberaceae). The curcuminoids are natural phenols that are responsible for the yellow color of turmeric. Curcumin can exist in several tautomeric forms, including a 1,3-di keto form and two equivalent enol forms. The enol form is more energetically stable in the solid phase and in solution.