1 If the crick is not severe enough to warrant lying down, you should still reduce your activity for a few days. 2  Do not do any heavy lifting or twisting for the first 2 or 3 weeks at minimum. 3  Avoid jogging, football, golf, ballet, weightlifting, or other strenuous exercise.
When you get a crick in the neck, it's not the end of the world, but it's certainly unpleasant. Work on proper neck posture and stretching, and remember that your sleeping position can have a huge effect. Don't let a pain in the neck ruin a good night's sleep.
Best Answer: Most neck pain is due to strain and spasm of the neck muscles. The common crick in the neck upon arising is one example of neck muscle strain. Neck pain in the morning may be due to poor sleeping habits. Sleep on a firm surface: a firm mattress is best; a bed board will make a soft mattress firmer.
How to treat a crick. Try an over-the-counter pain reliever, such as acetaminophen (Tylenol or generic), naproxen (Aleveor generic), aspirin or ibuprofen (Motrin, Advil or generic). Apply heat to the neck or shoulder, or alternate heat and ice. Try water therapy.
Treatment Options. If you don’t think your crick in the neck is caused by a serious issue, you may want to treat it yourself. There are quite a few things you can do at home to get rid of your crick, including: 1  Massaging the area – To get rid of the muscle pain, massage the area with a pain gel. 2  You may want to ask someone to help you out if the pain radiates to the shoulders and back, or you may want to visit a chiropractor.
One thing that you can do is put a hot pad on your neck. This can help relax the muscles in your neck and help the kink go away. Also check that on your bed or whatever you're sleeping on does not have more than two pillows UNDER your neck. Also a wet warm or cold cloth will do just fine.
Both cold and warmth can help with a crick in the neck, but for best results, you should consider alternating them. 1  Begin by applying an ice pack for 7 to 20 minutes. 2  Take a warm shower, use a hot water bottle, or use a heating pad, set to low, on the back of your neck. 3  Give your neck a break from both.
Use your fingers to gently rub the back of your neck, near the crick, for up to 3 minutes. 1  Do not apply firm pressure and stop immediately if mild pressure makes your neck hurt more. 2  If you are unable to bend your arms back due to the pain, ask a friend or family member to gently rub the area for you.