Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. Intrusive igneous rocks are formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of a planet, surrounded by pre-existing rock (called country rock); the magma cools slowly and, as a result, these rocks are coarse grained. The mineral grains in such rocks can generally be identified with the naked eye.
Extrusive. Extrusive, also known as volcanic, rocks are a type of igneous rock that form at the crust's surface as a result of volcanic activity. This type of rock occurs when lava flows on or above the Earth's surface and cools down rapidly
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Lava rock, also known as igneous rock, is formed when volcanic lava or magma cools and solidifies. It is one of the three main rock types found on Earth, along with metamorphic and sedimentary. Extrusive, also known as volcanic, rocks are a type of igneous rock that form at the crust's surface as a result of volcanic activity.
Any rock that forms from the cooling of magma is an igneous rock. Magma that cools quickly forms one kind of igneous rock, and magma that cools slowly forms another kind. When magma rises from deep within the earth and explodes out of a volcano, it is called lava, and it cools quickly on the surface. Rock formed in this way is called extrusive
Igneous Rocks. Igneous rocks are formed from lava or magma. Magma is molten rock that is underground and lava is molten rock that erupts out on the surface. The two main types of igneous rocks are plutonic rocks and volcanic rocks. Plutonic rocks are formed when magma cools and solidifies underground. Volcanic rocks are formed from lava that flows on the surface of the Earth and other planets and then cools and solidifies. The texture of an igneous rock depends on the size of the crystals in the rock. When magma cools underground, it cools very slowly and when lava cools above ground, it cools quickly. When magma and lava cool, mineral crystals start to form in the molten rock. Plutonic rocks, which cool slowly underground, have large crystals because the crystals had enough time to grow to a large size.
Lava is the molten rock expelled by a volcano during an eruption and the resulting rock after solidification and cooling. This molten rock is formed in the interior of some planets, including Earth, and some of their satellites. The source of the heat that melts the rock within the earth is geothermal energy. 
Examples of this rock type include gneiss and marble. Igneous. Igneous rocks are formed when magma (molten rock deep within the earth) cools and hardens. Sometimes the magma cools inside the earth, and other times it erupts onto the surface from volcanoes (in this case, it is called lava). 
· just now. Report Abuse. Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles(volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid freezes to form volcanic glass. 
Lava is on the Earth's surface so it cools quickly compared to magma in Earth. As a result, rocks form quickly and mineral crystals are very small. Rhyolite is one type of rock that is formed when lava cools. It contains similar minerals to granite. However, as you can see in Figure 3.21, the mineral crystals are much smaller than the crystals in the granite shown in Figure 3.20.