Definition of TANAKH. : the Jewish Scriptures comprising the books of law, the prophets, and collected writings — compare torah, nevi'im, ketuvim — see bible table. Ta·nakh also Ta·nach. ADVERTISEMENT
Definition of KETUVIM. : the third part of the Jewish Scriptures which contains the poetic books and the remaining canonical books of the Jewish Scriptures not included in the Torah or the Nevi'im —called also Writings — see bible table. ADVERTISEMENT.
The Jewish scriptures which consist of three divisions--the Torah and the Prophets and the Writings. Classified under: Nouns denoting communicative processes and contents. Synonyms: Hebrew Scripture; Tanach; Tanakh. Laws; Pentateuch; Torah (the first of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures comprising the first five books of the Hebrew Bible considered as a unit). Nebiim; Prophets (the second of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures).
Tanakh. The Tanakh is a name used in Judaism for the canon of the Hebrew Bible. The Tanakh is also known as the Masoretic Text or the Miqra. The name is an acronym formed from the initial Hebrew letters of the Masoretic Text's three traditional subdivisions: The Torah, Nevi'im and Ketuvim —hence TaNaKh. The name Miqra, meaning that which is read, is an alternative Hebrew term for the Tanakh. The books of the Tanakh were relayed with an accompanying oral tradition passed on by each generation, called the Oral Torah.
a term used among Jews for the Hebrew Bible; the Old Testament. The Hebrew Bible is divided into three parts: (1) The Torah, Law, or Pentateuch. (2) The Prophets. . . (3) The Kethubim, or the Writings, generally termed Hagiographa. - C. H. H. Wright. 
The name  Mikra  (מקרא), meaning that which is read, is another Hebrew word for the Tanakh. The books of the Tanakh were passed on by each generation, and according to rabbinic tradition were accompanied by an oral tradition, called the Oral Torah. There are two major approaches towards study of, and commentary on, the Tanakh. In the Jewish community, the classical approach is religious study of the Bible, where it is assumed that the Bible is divinely inspired. Another approach is to study the Bible as a human creation.
Tanakh-the Jewish scriptures which consist of three divisions--the Torah and the Prophets and the Writings. Hebrew Scripture, Tanach. Laws, Pentateuch, Torah-the first of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures comprising the first five books of the Hebrew Bible considered as a unit. Nebiim, Prophets-the second of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures.
• TANAKH (noun). The noun TANAKH has 1 sense: 1. the Jewish scriptures which consist of three divisions--the Torah and the Prophets and the Writings. Familiarity information: TANAKH used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Laws; Pentateuch; Torah (the first of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures comprising the first five books of the Hebrew Bible considered as a unit). Nebiim; Prophets (the second of three divisions of the Hebrew Scriptures).