During routine visits to your health care provider, you are often asked to give a urine sample for testing. Many tests are done routinely, like checking for sugar (diabetes), bacteria (infection) and blood. Blood in the urine that you do not see is called microscopic hematuria.. This blood is only visible under a microscope. There are many causes and most are not serious, but may call for care by your health care provider. 
Blood in the urine (hematuria) can originate from any site along the urinary tract and, whether gross or microscopic, may be a sign of serious underlying disease, including malignancy. The literature agrees that gross hematuria warrants a thorough diagnostic evaluation. 
In hematuria, your kidneys — or other parts of your urinary tract — allow blood cells to leak into urine. A number of problems can cause this leakage, including: Urinary tract infections. Urinary tract infections often occur when bacteria enter your body through the urethra and begin to multiply in your bladder. 1 So can Alport syndrome, which affects the filtering membranes in the glomeruli of the kidneys. 2  Kidney injury. 3  A blow or other injury to your kidneys from an accident or contact sports can cause blood in your urine that you can see. 4  Medications.
Other forms of kidney disease (e.g. diabetes, immune disease or viral infection) may also cause blood to be seen in the urine. Physical damage to the kidneys through accident or contact sports, such as boxing, may also cause blood to appear in the urine. Bladder and kidney stones may both lead to the presence of blood in the urine due to the physical damage they can cause in the affected organ. Inherited conditions such as Alport syndrome and sickle cell anaemia can also cause the symptoms of hematuria. Inflammation of the prostate may also lead to hematuria. Cancer in the bladder, prostate or kidneys may also cause the presence of blood in urine; however, this usually will only occur once the cancer has become quite advanced and more difficult to treat. 
The causes of gross and microscopic hematuria are similar and may result from bleeding anywhere along the urinary tract. One cannot readily distinguish between blood originating in the kidneys, ureters (the tubes that transport urine from the kidneys to the bladder), bladder, or urethra. Any degree of blood in the urine should be fully evaluated by a physician, even if it resolves spontaneously. Infection of the urine, (often called a urinary tract infection or UTI) stemming either from the kidneys or bladder, is a common cause of microscopic hematuria. Urine is naturally sterile and should not contain bacteri
1 Even if your bleeding was first discovered through urine testing (urinalysis), you're likely to have another test to see if your urine still contains red blood cells. 2  Urinalysis can also check for urinary tract infection or the presence of minerals that cause kidney stones. Sometimes, the cause of urinary bleeding may not be found. In that case, your doctor may recommend regular follow-up tests, especially if you have risk factors for bladder cancer, such as smoking, exposure to environmental toxins or a history of radiation therapy. 1  Preparing for your appointment. 2  Treatments and drug
1 Urine tests. 2  Even if your bleeding was first discovered through urine testing (urinalysis), you're likely to have another test to see if your urine still contains red blood cells. 3  Urinalysis can also check for urinary tract infection or the presence of minerals that cause kidney stones. Sometimes, the cause of urinary bleeding may not be found. In that case, your doctor may recommend regular follow-up tests, especially if you have risk factors for bladder cancer, such as smoking, exposure to environmental toxins or a history of radiation therapy. 1  Preparing for your appointment. 2  Treatments and drug