Bronwyn /bron-wyn/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced BRON-win. It is of Welsh origin, and the meaning of Bronwyn is fair, blessed breast. Kreatif forms: Birnwyn, Bonwyn, Brinwyn. Bronwyn is a somewhat popular first name for women (#2763 out of 4276, Top 65%) but a rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Bronwyn for girls. Bronwyn has not been ranked in the list thus far
Origin and meaning of Bronwyn. 0 5. The meaning of Bronwyn is  White breasted . Its origin is  Variant of the name Bronwen . Bronwyn is a form of Bronwen and is generally pronounced like  BRON win . Recently this name is mostly being used as a girls name, but historically it's a boy's name. Last year it ranked 3,299th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.
Welsh Meaning: The name Bronwyn is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Bronwyn is: Dark and pure. White breast, white breasted. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Popularity of the Name Bronwyn. Bronwyn is a rare name in the United States. So rare it has never made America’s Top 1000 list of baby girl names. Among all the Celtic names, Welsh names are just not as prevalent in the U.S. as Irish and Scottish names. “Bran” means “raven, crow” in Welsh while “bron” means breasted. Also, Branwen (and not Bronwen) appears in Welsh mythology as the sister of Bran brân The. Blessed bronwyn is a different name. Altogether outside of The welsh, Borders bronwyn has seen most of her usage Among. australians
Etymology & Historical Origin-Bronwyn. Bronwyn is a Welsh name derived from the Celtic elements “bron” meaning “breasted” and “(g)wyn” meaning “fair, white, blessed, holy”. The notion of being “white-breasted” has more to do with virginal purity or pureness of heart. In Wales the name is spelled Bronwen (“wen” being the feminine suffix of “wyn”). “Bran” means “raven, crow” in Welsh while “bron” means breasted. Also, Branwen (and not Bronwen) appears in Welsh mythology as the sister of Bran brân The. Blessed bronwyn is a different name. Altogether outside of The welsh, Borders bronwyn has seen most of her usage Among. australians
Origin and meaning of Bronwyn. 2 5. The meaning of Bronwyn is  White breasted . Its origin is  Variant of the name Bronwen . Bronwyn is a form of Bronwen and is generally pronounced like  BRON win . Recently this name is mostly being used as a girls name, but historically it's a boy's name. Last year it ranked 3,299th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names.
Bronwyn is an altered spelling (commonly used in the United States) of the Welsh name Bronwen. 
Bronwyn is not by itself Welsh; it is the Irish spelling of the Welsh name Bronwen. -wen is feminine in Welsh and masculine in Irish; -wyn is feminine in Irish and masculine in Welsh. -- electrainstead 7/3/2006. Bronwyn Brigid Price is the daughter of actress Maureen O'Hara and writer/director Will Price. I chose this name for my beautiful daughter Bronwyn. At the time I didn't know the origin of the name, and did I neither care. Spelt with a  Y I find it to be more fancy and not as plain as wen. I find this name to be elegant and lady-like with a hint of boldness.
Bronwyn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Bron-wyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 3259 in baby name popularity for girls with 49 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Bronwyn Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Bronwyn has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Bronwyn to other names. Bronwyn is a variant spelling of Bronwen. Bronwyn has the diminutive (nickname) Bron.