A bindle is the bag, sack, or carrying device stereotypically used by the American sub-culture of hobos. The term bindle may descend from the German / Yiddish word Buendel, bündel meaning something wrapped up in a blanket and bound by cord for (carrying. cf Originally Middle  dutch ), bundle or have arisen as a portmanteau of bind and. spindle
If you've ever seen a cartoon, you know that vagabonds carry bindles. You may not actually know what a bindle is (that little bag-on-a-stick thing) or what it's for (they carry their stuff in it) but you know they carry it. There are two basic components to a bindle: The kerchief and the stave that supports it. For a stave, any long, straight pole will do. A broomhandle would work fine, but I decided to go more hillbilly-chic and cut one myself. I prefer willow saplings, because they're long, straight, light and strong.
Definition of BINDLE. : a bundle of clothes or bedding. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Ed:If I had both, I could put my kindle in my bindle. And when I wanted to read a book I would take my kindle out of my bindle, set my bindle on the ground and read my kindle.. Kelly: But you forgot about your burning passion for thread spinning! A small envelope made by folding a square piece of paper, often used for carrying powdered drugs such as cocaine. Popular because it requires no tape, glue or fasteners and does not leak when folded correctly. There's a bindle on the mirror; just dump it out and lay out some lines..
Bindle. A small envelope made by folding a square piece of paper, often used for carrying powdered drugs such as cocaine. Popular because it requires no tape, glue or fasteners and does not leak when folded correctly. There's a bindle on the mirror; just dump it out and lay out some lines..
Bindle. A bindle is the bag, sack, or carrying device stereotypically used by the commonly American sub-culture of hobos, or kids running away from home. The person carrying a bindle was called a bindlestiff, combining bindle with the Average Joe sense of stiff. In modern popular culture the bindle is portrayed as a stick with cloth or a blanket tied around one end for carrying items, with the entire array being carried over the shoulder. However, in actual use the bindle can take many forms. An example of the stick-type bindle can be seen in the illustration entitled The Runaway created by Norman Rockwell which appears on the cover of the September 20, 1958 edition of The Saturday Evening Post.
20 Words related to Bindle. 1  cocaine. 2  hobo. 3  coke. 4  bindles. 5  braggadocio. 6  dealer. 7  gliderd. 8  spindle. 9  swagger. 10  the big hurt. 11  bindy. 12  drugs. 13  ghetto origami. 14  glider. 15  origami. 16  poor man's luggage. 17  pow. 18  snow. 19  speed. 20  the bhb. A small envelope made by folding a square piece of paper, often used for carrying powdered drugs such as cocaine. Popular because it requires no tape, glue or fasteners and does not leak when folded correctly. There's a bindle on the mirror; just dump it out and lay out some lines..
A homeless person with his bindle. A homeless person with his bindle. The definition of bindle is a slang term for a bundle of bedding carried by a hobo. A bundle of blankets and bedding carried by a homeless person is an example of a bindle. ⌂. Slang a bundle, as of bedding,