-mania. a combining form of mania (megalomania); extended to mean “enthusiasm, often of an extreme and transient nature,” for that specified by the initial element (bibliomania). - Based on a Greek word meaning madness, ultimately from an Indo-European root for mind.. 
Bi meaning  two, The person has two extreme mood phases manic and depressive,  Sure everyone has bad days. But for bipo … lar sufferers it is much  more severe and often happens for no apparent reason. One time  they could love the world and feel content with who they are. Manic is a mood. When you are manic you feel elated, as if it is the best moment of your life-like a birthday, a circus, and Christmas rolled into one. You feel as if God is speaking directly to you; this is called religious ideation. You feel as if you have super-powers
Meaning of Manik. Indian name. In Indian, the name Manik means-gem.The name Manik originated as an Indian name. The name Manik is most often used as a girl name or female name. Indian Name Meaning-gem. 
Manic-depression: Alternating moods of abnormal highs (mania) and lows (depression). Called bipolar disorder because of the swings between these opposing poles in mood. A type of depressive disease. Not nearly as prevalent as other forms of depressive disorders. Some people with bipolar disorder become suicidal. Most people with bipolar disorder -- even those with the most severe forms -- can achieve substantial stabilization of their mood swings and related symptoms with proper treatment.
The beginning of the week: For work and/or school resulting in depression is a genetic condition that is triggered either spontaneously or from a significant amount of emotional pressure, associated with it being Monday! Manic Monday....sigh...4 more days until the weekend. by Johnathan Angelo Rosa Jr. 
List of Bengali baby names, Bengali baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Bengali names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Bengali baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Manik in Bengali origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. 
Full Definition of MANIC. : affected with, relating to, characterized by, or resulting from mania. — manic noun. — man·i·cal·ly \-ni-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See manic defined for English-language learners. 
Latin Meaning: The name Mania is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Mania is: Mother of souls. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 2. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
adjective. 1 (In psychiatry) relating to or affected by mania: the manic interludes in depression manic patients. More example sentences. 1  A hyperactive manic patient will nearly always have a rapid heart rate, but it doesn't follow that a rapid heart rate causes the mania.