Dubai is located in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) which is in the Middle East area. Dubai is often known as the world's most modern city. Dubai (in Arabic: دبيّ‎, transliteration: Dubaīy) is one of the seven emirates and most populous city of the United Arab Emirates (UAE).
Dubai is situated on the Persian Gulf coast of the United Arab Emirates and is roughly at sea level (16 m or 52 ft above). The emirate of Dubai shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast.
It is a peninsula located on the shore of the Persian Gulf region of the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It shares borders with Abu Dhabhi, Sharjah and Oman. The first two are Emirates of the UAE while Oman is an independent nation.
Dubai is one of the seven emirates of the UAE and is the most populated city of the Emirates (UAE). It is located along the southern coast of the Persian Gulf on the Arabian Peninsula. The Dubai Municipality is sometimes called Dubai city to distinguish it from the emirate. Dubai is situated on the northeast coast of the United Arab Emirates and shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast.
If you take a look at the geography of Dubai, you will see that where Dubai is situated is in the Persian Gulf coast of the UAE estimated to be around 16 meters above sea level. On the southern part, it shares a border with Abu Dhabi, northeast with Sharjah, and southeast with the Sultanate of Oman.
Dubai is a coastal city in the United Arab Emirates. It is located on the Arabian Peninsula and borders the Persian Gulf. Dubia is both the name of the city as well as the emirate, or principality, in which it is located.
The Dubai City's Exact Location. Dubai is located on the southern area of the Arabian Gulf and the northeastern side of the United Arab Emirates. The latitude of Dubai is 25°16 North and the longitude of Dubai is 55°16 East. Dubai extends to Hatta, an ancient village, which is 120 KM to the east and also extends to more than 115 KM on the Gulf Coast.