An amazing new video from SpaceX shows the spaceflight company's incredible plans for a reusable mega-rocket. The 2.5-minute Falcon Heavy rocket animation shows the spaceflight firm's plans to land the three boosters of its giant rocket back on Earth after launching missions to orbit. SpaceX representatives expect to start flights of the Falcon 9 Heavy later this year. When Falcon Heavy lifts off later this year, it will be the most powerful operational rocket in the world by a factor of two, SpaceX representatives wrote in a video description.
Falcon 9. Falcon 9 is a two-stage rocket designed and manufactured by SpaceX for the reliable and safe transport of satellites and the Dragon spacecraft into orbit. As the first rocket completely developed in the 21st century, Falcon 9 was designed from the ground up for maximum reliability. Falcon 9, along with the Dragon spacecraft, was designed from the outset to deliver humans into space and under an agreement with NASA, SpaceX is actively working toward that goal.
Falcon 9 is a family of two-stage-to-orbit launch vehicles designed and manufactured by SpaceX. The Falcon 9 versions are the Falcon 9 v1.0 (phased-out), Falcon 9 v1.1 (current version, expendable), and the Falcon 9-R (reusable launch system). The Falcon 9 v1.1 will be the base for the Falcon Heavy launch vehicle. Falcon 9 will also be human-rated for transporting NASA astronauts to the ISS as part of a Commercial Crew Transportation Capability contract.
Falcon 9 made history in 2012 when it delivered Dragon into the correct orbit for rendezvous with the International Space Station, making SpaceX the first commercial company ever to visit the station. Falcon 9, along with the Dragon spacecraft, was designed from the outset to deliver humans into space and under an agreement with NASA, SpaceX is actively working toward that goal.
SpaceX's reusable Grasshopper reaches a new record height of just over 1,066 feet (325 meters) on June 14, 2013 during a test flight from its McGregor, Texas proving ground. This image is a still from a video recorded by an unmanned hexacopter drone. Credit: SpaceX. SpaceX's reusable Grasshopper rocket prototype rises skyward from its McGregor, Texas launch pad during a June 14, 2013 test flight that reached 1,066 feet (325 meters) before descending back to Earth.
A reusable first stage is now being flight tested by SpaceX with the suborbital Grasshopper rocket. By April 2013, a low-altitude, low-speed demonstration test vehicle, Grasshopper v1.0, had made five VTVL test flights including an 80-second hover flight to an altitude of 744 metres (2,441 ft). The Falcon 9 v1.1 will be the base for the Falcon Heavy launch vehicle. Falcon 9 will also be human-rated for transporting NASA astronauts to the ISS as part of a Commercial Crew Transportation Capability contract.
The Falcon 9 v1.1 ELV is a 60 percent heavier rocket with 60 percent more thrust than the v1.0 version of the Falcon 9. It includes realigned first-stage engines and 60 percent longer fuel tanks, making it more susceptible to bending during flight. The Falcon 9 v1.1 will be the base for the Falcon Heavy launch vehicle. Falcon 9 will also be human-rated for transporting NASA astronauts to the ISS as part of a Commercial Crew Transportation Capability contract.
In its sixth-ever test flight, SpaceX's experimental Grasshopper rocket hopped to a maximum altitude of 1,066 feet (325 meters) on June 14. It then made a slow and controlled descent back to Earth at the company's rocket development facility in McGregor, Texas. SpaceX's reusable Grasshopper rocket prototype rises skyward from its McGregor, Texas launch pad during a June 14, 2013 test flight that reached 1,066 feet (325 meters) before descending back to Earth.
In November 2012, CEO Elon Musk announced SpaceX's plans to build a second, much larger, reusable rocket system, this one to be powered by LOX / methane rather than LOX/ RP-1 used on Falcon 9 and Falcon Heavy. The SpaceX reusable launch system development program is a privately funded program to develop a set of new technologies for an orbital launch system that may be reused many times in a manner similar to the reusability of aircraft.
Thrust at liftoff is equal to approximately eighteen 747 aircraft operating simultaneously. [ How SpaceX's Falcon Heavy Rocket Works (Infographic) ]. SpaceX's Falcon Heavy will stand a towering 224.4 feet (68.4 meters) tall with 27 engines powering its three-booster first stage. The rocket's second stage has one engine that can help deliver a satellite or other payload to a chosen orbit after it separates from the first stage of the rocket. SpaceX representatives expect to start flights of the Falcon 9 Heavy later this year. When Falcon Heavy lifts off later this year, it will be the most powerful operational rocket in the world by a factor of two, SpaceX representatives wrote in a video description.