The nucleus is an organelle that is surrounded by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope separates the contents of the nucleus from the rest of the cell. Eukaryotic cells also have a cell membrane (plasma membrane), cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and various cellular organelles. Eukaryotic Organelles. 1  Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell.
Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA
1 Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. 3  Mitochondria-as the cell's power producers, mitochondria convert energy into forms that are usable by the cell. Eukaryotic Organelles. 1 
In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive). Under the more restricted definition of membrane-bound structures, some parts of the cell do not qualify as organelles. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound
Nucleus. The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities. The Cytoplasm is the gel-like substance that fills the cell outside the nucleus. All of the cell's organelles are held and located within the cytoplasm. There are many different chemicals, nucleic acids, and other substances that the cell needs can be found there also. It supports the cell and gives it shape.
There are also certain organelles found in plant cells that are not found in animal cells and vice versa. Examples of organelles found in plant cells and animal cells include: Prokaryotic cells have a structure that is less complex than eukaryotic cells. They do not have a nucleus or region where the DNA is bound by a membrane. Prokaryotic DNA is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid. Eukaryotic Organelles. 1  Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell.
All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. The Cytoplasm is the gel-like substance that fills the cell outside the nucleus. All of the cell's organelles are held and located within the cytoplasm. There are many different chemicals, nucleic acids, and other substances that the cell needs can be found there also. It supports the cell and gives it shape.