#2 - Not produ … ced by kidneys   Urea is not a protein at all. It's a nitrogenous waste compound produced in the liver. Ammonia is a toxic compound produced during protein-catabolism. The body gets rid of this toxin by coupling it with CO2, water, and some other biological agents to form urea. The kidney's do not make urea. Previous INCORRECT answer:   Urea is a form of protein produced by the kidneys..   There are 2 things wrong with this statement.   #1 - Not a protein.
Urea serves an important role in the metabolism of nitrogen-containing compounds by animals, and is the main nitrogen-containing substance in the urine of mammals. It is colorless, odorless solid, highly soluble in water, and practically non-toxic (LD50 is 15 g/kg for rats). The term urea is also used for a class of chemical compounds that share the same functional group, a carbonyl group attached to two organic amine residues: RR'N—CO—NRR'. Examples include carbamide peroxide, allantoin, and hydantoin.
It is the main source of Nitrogen in urine and is excreted by the body as a waste product from your … kidneys. Urea is a readily available source of Nitrogen so is used as a fertilizer and sometimes as a supplement to feed for stock. + 59 others found this useful. Sione Stanley. 
Urea is widely used in fertilizers as a source of nitrogen and is an important raw material for the chemical industry. Friedrich Woehler 'wöhler s discovery in 1828 that urea can be produced from inorganic starting materials was an important conceptual milestone in. chemistry The term urea is also used for a class of chemical compounds that share the same functional group, a carbonyl group attached to two organic amine residues: RR'N—CO—NRR'. Examples include carbamide peroxide, allantoin, and hydantoin.
The urea cycle (also known as the ornithine cycle) is a cycle of biochemical reactions occurring in many animals that produces urea ((N H 2) 2 C O) from ammonia (NH 3). 
The urea and water are released from the liver cells to the bloodstream and transported to the kidneys where the blood is filtered and the urea is passed out of the body in the urine. Urea is very soluble and a small molecule, so it is relatively easily passed out by the kidneys as a solution in water. Excretion usually refers to the removal of nitrogenous (nitrogen-containing) substances such as urea. The part played by the liver The liver is a complex organ. It performs over 500 different functions. Two of these are the control of amino acid concentration and detoxification.
Urea or carbamide is an organic compound with the chemical formula C O (N H 2) 2. The molecule has two —NH 2 groups joined by a carbonyl (C=O) functional group. The term urea is also used for a class of chemical compounds that share the same functional group, a carbonyl group attached to two organic amine residues: RR'N—CO—NRR'. Examples include carbamide peroxide, allantoin, and hydantoin.
urea. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a white water-soluble crystalline compound with a saline taste and often an odour of ammonia, produced by protein metabolism and excreted in urine. A synthetic form is used as a fertilizer, animal feed, and in the manufacture of synthetic resins. Formula: CO(NH2)2. n. A water-soluble compound, CO(NH 2) 2, that is the major nitrogenous end product of protein metabolism and is the chief nitrogenous component of the urine in mammals and certain other animals.
Urea, chemical formula (NH2)2CO, is one of the waste byproducts created when the body metabolizes proteins for use. Although the body eliminates urea as waste, there are a number of industrial uses for the compound. Urea-formaldehyde resins are produced as an adhesive for wood and paper products. Urea is also used in antifreezes and is used as a selective catalytic reducer to eliminate nitric oxides from diesel tanks. Urea is sprayed into diesel tanks and then converts the harmful nitric oxides into nitrogen and water.