Serum antimitochondrial antibody targets non–organ-specific mitochondrial antigens numerically classified as M1-M9. M2 is the most commonly recognized antigen complex, consisting of 2-oxo-acid dehydrogenase complex (2-OADHC) family located in the inner mitochondrial membrane. Reference Range. The presence of serum antimitochondrial antibodies (AMA) is a highly specific indication of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). The reference range of antimitochondrial antibody immunoassay is a titer less than 1:40 on enzyme immunoassay (EIA) and negative on indirect immunofluorescence (IF).
Anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA) are autoantibodies, consisting of immunoglobulins formed against mitochondria, primarily the mitochondria in cells of the liver. Immunofluorescence staining pattern of AMA shown on stomach (top left), liver (top right), kidney (bottom left) and hep-20-10 cells (bottom right). Primary biliary cirrhosis is seen primarily in middle-aged women, and in those afflicted with other autoimmune diseases.
Clinical Significance. A high Anti-Mitochondrial Antibody (AMA) titer supports the diagnosis of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). Low titers of AMA may be detected in other liver disorders, which include chronic active hepatitis and cryptogenic cirrhosis. Mitochondrial M2 Antibody has an even higher specificity for PBC. 
High anti-mitochondrial antibodies: High anti-mitochondrial antibodies is listed as an alternate name or description for symptom: Causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies). The list of medical condition causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies) includes: 1  Primary biliary cirrhosis.
The presence of AMAs in the blood or serum of a person is indicative of several autoimmune diseases such as primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) (a scarring of liver tissue, confined primarily to the bile duct drainage system of the liver). It is present in about 95% of cases. Immunofluorescence staining pattern of AMA shown on stomach (top left), liver (top right), kidney (bottom left) and hep-20-10 cells (bottom right). Primary biliary cirrhosis is seen primarily in middle-aged women, and in those afflicted with other autoimmune diseases.
More Symptom Information for High anti-mitochondrial antibodies. For a medical symptom description of 'High anti-mitochondrial antibodies', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (symptom). Causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies). The list of medical condition causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies) includes: 1  Primary biliary cirrhosis.
Related Symptoms for High anti-mitochondrial antibodies. Research the causes of these related symptoms that are similar to, or related to, the symptom High anti-mitochondrial antibodies: 1  Primary biliary cirrhosis. Causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies). The list of medical condition causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies) includ
The mitochondrial antibody test measures the presence of anti-mitochondrial antibodies-antibodies which attack the mitochondria of the cells. However, if the test results are abnormal, they will show the presence of the mitochondrial M2 antibody. Positive tests indicate cirrhosis of the liver, primary biliary cirrhosis, thyroiditis, rheumatoid arthritis, liver blockage, or autoimmune hepatitis.
Test Results. In a normal test, no antibodies are present. However, if the test results are abnormal, they will show the presence of the mitochondrial M2 antibody. Positive tests indicate cirrhosis of the liver, primary biliary cirrhosis, thyroiditis, rheumatoid arthritis, liver blockage, or autoimmune hepatitis.
Broader Symptom Types for High anti-mitochondrial antibodies: Research the causes of these symptoms that are more broader types of symptom than High anti-mitochondrial antibodies: 1  Blood symptoms (2297 causes). 2  Abnormal blood test symptoms (1538 causes). Causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies). The list of medical condition causes of Raised antimitochondrial antibodies (High anti-mitochondrial antibodies) includes: 1  Primary biliary cirrhosis.