A pulled or strained muscle is one that has been overstretched due to physical activity, resulting in swelling and pain. Pulled muscles are common injuries that can usually be effectively treated at home. Learn how to care for your pulled muscle and decide when medical intervention is necessary.
Rest your muscle as soon as you pull it. Depending on the severity, you may need up to five days of rest. In most cases, one to three days is plenty of time. Be sure not to rest for too long because this could actually slow down the healing process. Apply ice immediately after you pull a muscle.
Happily, a groin pull will usually heal on its own. You just need to give it some time and rest. To speed the healing, you can: 1  Ice the inside of your thigh to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Experts recommend doing it for 20 to 30 minutes every 3 to 4 hours for 2 to 3 days, or until the pain is gone.
You will know a muscle is pulled typically within 24 to 48 hours of the injury, as the area will become stiff, sore, you may experience loss of movement and muscle spasms, and bruising or swelling will often develop around the injured muscle.
A muscle strain (or pulled muscle) is an overstretched or torn muscle. Back strain is the most common cause of back pain, especially lower back pain. Muscle strain is often caused by overuse of a muscle or overloading a muscle. When a muscle is stressed beyond its limits, injury occurs.
Treatment. For the first 72 hours, apply ice, use elevation and, in consultation with a doctor, take anti-inflammatory medication. After 72 hours, use hot packs to bring blood into the muscle and provide nourishment, which accelerates healing.
Depending on the grade, pulled muscles can take one to eight weeks to heal. For the first 72 hours, apply ice, use elevation and, in consultation with a doctor, take anti-inflammatory medication. After 72 hours, use hot packs to bring blood into the muscle and provide nourishment, which accelerates healing.
Pin It. A muscle pull (or strain) occurs when you twist, pull, or tear your muscle or tendon, the strong elastic cord that connects your muscle to the bone. As we age we are more susceptible to muscle pulls.