“You don’t need all that much caffeine to get the effect,” Rankin says. “And it is possible to overdo it.” No matter what form you take, make sure you don’t get more than 400 milligrams a day. And don’t forget to count your other daily sources of caffeine -- there’s about 100 milligrams in your morning coffee. Tennis players, cyclists, soccer players, runners, rowers, and others got an edge from caffeine in scientific studies. In some trials, the stimulant boosted athletes’ speed. In others, it helped them last longer before they spent all their energy. Some studies show that it can curb soreness after exercise, too.
The most common vitamins and minerals found to be of concern in athletes' diets are calcium and vitamin D, the B vitamins, iron, zinc, magnesium, as well as some antioxidants such as vitamins C and E, β-carotene, and selenium. Minerals: Calcium, Iron, Zinc, and Magnesium. The primary minerals low in the diets of athletes, especially female athletes, are calcium, iron, zinc, and magnesium. Low intakes of these minerals are often due to energy restriction or avoidance of animal products. Calcium.
You can easily get the protein you need through standard foods. Believe it or not, very few athletes need any type of protein supplement. Yes, protein supplements can be helpful in certain medical situations. For example, an athlete with anorexia may be more willing to consume a protein shake than eat tuna, cottage cheese or chicken. Patients with cancer or AIDS often benefit from protein supplements if they are unable to eat well.
Protein powders and protein supplements are great for convenience, but are not necessary, even for elite athletic performance. For example, Rossi works with athletes at the University of Virginia and only relies on protein powders when athletes need immediate protein right after a workout and don't have time for a meal. 
When scientists study these products, mixed reviews are pretty common. Also, most research focuses on highly trained or pro athletes, so your results might be different. But if you're healthy and have no problems with your heart, kidneys, or liver, the most popular sports supplements are safe and inexpensive. Tennis players, cyclists, soccer players, runners, rowers, and others got an edge from caffeine in scientific studies. In some trials, the stimulant boosted athletes’ speed. In others, it helped them last longer before they spent all their energy. Some studies show that it can curb soreness after exercise, too.
Supplements are products such as protein powders, creatine, amino acids, mega-dose vitamins/minerals, weight loss aids, energy boosters, and more. Specific examples include (but are not limited to) creatine products, energy drinks like Monster and 5-hour energy, protein powders, and glucosamine-chondroitin. 
Of the B vitamins, riboflavin, pyridoxine, folate, and vitamin B 12 are frequently low in female athletes' diets, especially those who are vegetarian or have disordered eating patterns. Limited research has been conducted to examine whether exercise increases the need for the B-complex vitamins. Minerals: Calcium, Iron, Zinc, and Magnesium. The primary minerals low in the diets of athletes, especially female athletes, are calcium, iron, zinc, and magnesium. Low intakes of these minerals are often due to energy restriction or avoidance of animal products. Calcium.
If you are an active person, chances are you do not need a protein supplement and using one will be counterproductive because of the extra calories (remember, 1 gram of protein provides as many kilocalories as 1 gram of sugar!). Athletes and vegetarians are special populations that may require supplements. Supplements can be in the form of ready-to-drink shakes, bars, bites, oats, and gels and powders, and come in a variety of flavors. What follows is a review of the scientific literature on the good, the bad ,and the ugly regarding protein
Their goal: to convince athletes they need extra protein to build muscles and recover from exercise. Never before have I talked to so many frenzied athletes bodybuilders and marathoners alike who are worried their standard diets are protein-deficient and inadequate to support their sports program. For example, an athlete with anorexia may be more willing to consume a protein shake than eat tuna, cottage cheese or chicken. Patients with cancer or AIDS often benefit from protein supplements if they are unable to eat well.