They are B lymphocytes (B cells) and T lymphocytes (T cells). B cells. B cells develop from bone marrow stem cells in adults. When B cells become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they create antibodies that are specific to that specific antigen. T cells. T cells develop from liver or bone marrow stem cells that mature in the thymus. These cells play a major role in cell mediated immunity. T cells contain proteins called T-cell receptors that populate the cell membrane. These receptors are capable of recognizing various types of antigens
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell generated by the immune system to defend the body against cancerous cells, pathogens, and foreign matter. Lymphocytes circulate in blood and lymph fluid and are found in body tissues including the spleen, thymus, bone marrow, lymph nodes, tonsils, and liver. T cells. T cells develop from liver or bone marrow stem cells that mature in the thymus. These cells play a major role in cell mediated immunity. T cells contain proteins called T-cell receptors that populate the cell membrane. These receptors are capable of recognizing various types of antigens
Best Answer: lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow. there are 3 different types: Natural Killer Cells (NK) They attack and lyse host cells(cells that are in your own body) that have either turn cancerous or are infected by a virus or bacteria. B Lymphocytes: These cells differentiate into Plasma Cells. They are responsible for making antibodies to foreign material. Antibodies then attack and kill whatever antigen they are made to react with. Lymphocytes are made in the bone marrow of your skull, vertebrae, ribs, and sternum.
lymphocyte —a small white blood cell produced in the lymphoid organs and essential to immune defenses. B cells, T cells, and NK T cells are lymphocytes. lymphoid organ —an organ of the immune system where lymphocytes develop and congregate. These organs include the bone marrow, thymus, lymph nodes, spleen, and various other clusters of lymphoid tissue. Blood vessels and lymphatic vessels are also lymphoid organ
Report Abuse. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell and mature in the bone marrow. There are two types of lymphocytes; namely B and T cells. Both are part of the body's defense system, but they have different mechansims of action. B Lymphocytes: These cells differentiate into Plasma Cells. They are responsible for making antibodies to foreign material. Antibodies then attack and kill whatever antigen they are made to react with. Lymphocytes are made in the bone marrow of your skull, vertebrae, ribs, and sternum.
Two types of lymphocyte are produced in the bone marrow before birth. B lymphocytes, also called B cells, stay within the bone marrow until they are mature. Once mature, they spread throughout the body and concentrate in the spleen and lymph nodes. Two types of lymphocyte are produced in the bone marrow before birth. A large number of lymphocytes can be found in the lymph nodes. Tuberculosis may cause a low lymphocyte count. Lymphocytes are found in the blood, and help defend the body against infection.
They include natural killer cells (NK cells) (which function in cell-mediated, cytotoxic innate immunity), T cells (for cell-mediated, cytotoxic adaptive immunity), and B cells (for humoral, antibody-driven adaptive immunity). They are the main type of cell found in lymph, which prompted the name lymphocyte. T cells are involved in cell-mediated immunity, whereas B cells are primarily responsible for humoral immunity (relating to antibodies). The function of T cells and B cells is to recognize specific “non-self” antigens, during a process known as antigen presentation.
Lymphocytes are produced by precursor cells in the bone marrow. They are found traveling in the blood stream, at sites of infection in large numbers, and in the lymph nodes which are located in the groin area, armpit area, and tonsils. There are also lymphocytes in the appendix and spleen. Lymphocytes are white blood cells. There are different types of white blood cells. They are monocytes, lymphocytes and granulocytes. Lymphocytes are smaller than granulocytes and have a round nucleus. They are made in the lymph nodes
The lymphocyte is the main cell of the lymphoid tissue. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell which produce antibodies to kill any pathogens which invade the body. They a … re small white blood cells which have large nuclei, but no granules. They produce antibodies that fight disease and harmful microbes in the body or mark the disease for the phagocytes to engulf. Lymphocytes are the second most common leukocytes which comprise 20 to 40% of the leukocytes in the blood. Lymphocytes, which are also known as natural killer cells, are also … special lymphocytes that can recognize a pathogen by the antigens on its cell wall and it will release chemicals to destroy it.