Heat your broiler at 500 degrees. Place a broiling pan in the oven, 4 inches from the source, and let it heat for a good ten minutes. Season the steaks liberally, on both sides, with salt and freshly ground pepper. Sprinkle with some thyme. Place the steaks on the broiling pan and broil them for 4 to 5 minutes per side – rotating the pan clockwise every couple of minutes. Reduce the oven heat to 250 degrees or turn off completely if it is too hot.
Broiling a steak is a great alternative to grilling, and results in a delicious steak if done correctly. After you have chosen your cut of … meat, the first thing you want to do is season your steak. You can season it by rubbing the meat with salt, pepper, and any other desired spices. On average, you will want to broil your steak about eight minutes per side. The best way to tell if your steak is done is to watch it while it is broiling. The louder your steak sizzles and pops, the more done it is.
1 Bring your 1 to 2 inch steaks to room temperature and use a clean cloth to remove excess moisture. 2  Move oven rack 6 inches from heating element. 3  Pre-heat oven and skillet by setting the oven to broiler for 15 to 20 minutes. 4  Rub steaks with olive oil, kosher salt and coarsely ground pepper. 1 Pre-heat oven and skillet by setting the oven to broiler for 15 to 20 minutes. 2  Rub steaks with olive oil, kosher salt and coarsely ground pepper. 3  NOTE: Use any seasonings of your choice.
Broil your steak. Place your steak into the oven on the rack closest to the broiler. Cooking times will vary greatly based on the cut of steak, cooking altitude, type of oven you're using, and how hot the broiler runs; cooking times can range from 3 to 18 minutes.
320-350 f would be good.Make sure the steak is not too cold when put in pan or on bbq so it doesn't shrink into itself and come out tough. 4-5 minutes each side for a 3/4 inch steak. Turn only once. The best way I know, is to cook it under the broiler for just a couple of minutes on each side. If you're cooking a thick steak, you might want to sear it well in … a skillet and then finish it up in the oven at about 375 degrees or so.
Prepare your oven and pan. Once your steak is ready to cook, set it aside. Adjust your oven rack so that the top of the steak will be about 4 inches (10cm) from the broiler heating element. Then turn the oven on to broil and preheat at 350f. Place your steak into the oven on the rack closest to the broiler. Cooking times will vary greatly based on the cut of steak, cooking altitude, type of oven you're using, and how hot the broiler runs; cooking times can range from 3 to 18 minutes.
If you don't have access to a grill though: Heat olive oil in a pan until nearly smoking. Sear the steak on both sides until very brown. Transfer to an oven proof pan, add your mushrooms, place a pat of butter on top of the meat and bake at 425 for about 10 minutes to finish. This would be for a steak at least an inch thick. If it's less than that, then searing in the pan is really all you'll need to do. 
1 Cook the steaks in the oven for 40 to 45 minutes. 2  The steak will still look fairly uncooked when you remove it from the oven. 3  A thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the steak will reveal a cooking temperature five to ten degrees lower than the desired doneness. 
Place the pan on the top rack, under the broiler. Let the steak broil for four minutes and then carefully flip it to the other side for another four minutes. If you're using a grill pan with raised ridges make sure you don't wiggle the steak around in the pan. You'll mess up the grill marks. After the steaks have broiled on each side, pull the pan out of the broiler. Position the top rack four to five inches from the top of the oven. Take the steak out of the refrigerator as you pre-heat the broiler to its highest possible temperature (Our broiler reaches to 550 degrees). Open a window just in case