The MMR vaccine protects children against all three diseases and is given at 12 months of age. A second dose using MMRV vaccine is given at 18 months of age to also protect children from chickenpox. MMR is given at four years of age to children who did not get their second MMR vaccine at 18 months of age. The four year old MMR dose ends in December 2015. All people born during or since 1966 should check their immunisation status to ensure they have had two doses of a measles containing vaccine. The National Immunisation Program provides free measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine to children at 12 months and 18 months of age. The four year old MMR dose ends in December 2015. People who were born during or since 1966, who have not received two doses of a measles containing vaccine, should also be vaccinated
MMR vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Children between 1 and 12 years of age can get a combination vaccine called MMRV, which contains both MMR and varicella (chickenpox) vaccines. There is a separate Vaccine Information Statement for MMRV. Top of Page. 
1 Children 12 months of age or older should have documentation of two doses of MMR vaccine (the first dose of MMR vaccine should be administered at age 12 months or older; the second dose no earlier than 28 days after the first dose). 1 Teenagers and adults born during or after 1957 without evidence of immunity against measles should have documentation of two doses of MMR vaccine, with the second dose administered no earlier than 28 days after the first dose.
MMR vaccine is recommended routinely for all children at age 12 through 15 months, with a second dose at age 4 through 6 years. The second dose of MMR can be given as early as 4 weeks (28 days) after the first dose and be counted as a valid dose if both doses were given after the child's first birthday. Measles vaccine, given as MMR, may be effective if given within the first 3 days (72 hours) after exposure to measles. Immune globulin may be effective for as long as 6 days after exposure.
Children should get 2 doses of MMR vaccine: 1  First Dose: 12-15 months of age. 2  Second Dose: 4-6 years of age (may be given earlier, if at least 28 days after the 1st dose). MMR vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Children between 1 and 12 years of age can get a “combination” vaccine called MMRV, which contains both MMR and varicella (chickenpox) vaccines.
Children should get 2 doses of MMR vaccine: 1  The first dose at 12 months through 15 months of age. 2  The second dose at 4 years through 6 years of age. 1 Teenagers and adults born during or after 1957 without evidence of immunity against measles should have documentation of two doses of MMR vaccine, with the second dose administered no earlier than 28 days after the first dose.
Typically the MMR vaccine is given twice-at age 12-15 months of age and a booster is given at age 4-6 years (prior to entry into elementary school). If someone has not had the MMR vaccinations, they can be given at any time later on in age. 
MMR is a two-shot series of vaccines usually given during childhood. A child should receive the first shot when he is between 12-15 months, and the second when he's between 4-6 years of age. If you're not sure if you have had the diseases or the vaccines (prior to 1971 it was given in three separate shots), you can get the MMR vaccine as an adult. Talk to your doctor about it if:
1 Children 12 months of age or older should have documentation of 2 doses of MMR vaccine (separated by at least 28 days). 2  Teenagers and adults without evidence of measles immunity should have documentation of 2 appropriately spaced doses of MMR vaccine. 1 Infants 6 through 11 months old should receive 1 dose of MMR vaccine before departure. 2 