A trattoria is an Italian-style eating establishment, less formal than a ristorante, but more formal than an osteria. There are generally no printed menus, the service is casual, wine is sold by the decanter rather than the bottle, prices are low, and the emphasis is on a steady clientele rather than on haute cuisine. 
Cantina. A cantina is a type of bar popular in Italy, Mexico and Spain. The word is similar in etymology to canteen, and is derived from the Italian word for a cellar, winery, or vault. In Italy the cantina may also be used to store meat products such as salami. The term cantina entered the French language circa 1710 as cantine. It was used originally to refer to the shop of a sutler.
A cantina can be any establishment like a canteen, snack bar or cafeteria, but mainly it means bar. Share to: 1  Best Essays on the State of War for English Composition In order to write effectively on the subject of the state of war, one must review the essays of two of the most prolific political philosophers in modern history: John Locke,….
'cantina' found in translations in English-Spanish dictionary. post exchange. post exchange. n. la cantina. mess hall. mess hall. n. la cantina. To add entries to your own vocabulary, become a member of Reverso community or login if you are already a member. 4 cantinas (Mex) (=méx) alforjas. Saddlebags Translation-Spanish English Collins &dictionary. Nbsp see: also, cantinas, cantinas, canina. Cantilena to ensure the quality of, comments you need to be. Connected’it s easy and only takes a few Seconds Or sign/up login To reverso. account cantina. nf
A cantina is a type of bar popular in Italy, Mexico and Spain. The word is similar in etymology to  canteen , and is derived from the Italian word for a cellar, winery, or vault. In Italy the cantina may also be used to store meat products such as salami. The term cantina entered the French language circa 1710 as cantine. It was used originally to refer to the shop of a sutler.
cantina. Translation Italian-English Collins Dictionary &nbsp. See also: cantina sociale, cantilena, canna, cantilenare. 
In Spain, a cantina is a bar located in a train station or any establishment located at or near a workplace where food and drinks are served. Cantina was one of the foreign words that entered in from Renaissance Italy. The word is similar in etymology to  canteen , and is derived from the Italian word for a cellar, winery, or vault. In Italy the cantina may also be used to store meat products such as salami. The term cantina entered the French language circa 1710 as cantine. It was used originally to refer to the shop of a sutler.
Definition of CANTINA. 1. Southwest: a pouch or bag at the pommel of a saddle. 2. Southwest: a small barroom: saloon. ADVERTISEMENT. 
noun. 1 (Especially in a Spanish-speaking country or the south-western US) a bar. Example sentences. 1  The bars are doing a booming business and there are now some fifteen gay clubs, bars, cantinas and lounges, almost all of them in the unique part of town known as the South Side. 2  Along the way, Terry finds time to carouse in local cantinas and spends time with a variety of young, pretty Cuban women. 1 Along the way, Terry finds time to carouse in local cantinas and spends time with a variety of young, pretty Cuban women. 2  This summer, heart-warming scenes like the above are being played out across the plages and dance floors of Europe, in the cantinas and tapas bars.