A Colonoscopy in Cincinnati costs $765 on average when you take the median of the 39 medical providers who perform Colonoscopy procedures in Cincinnati, OH. There are 1 different types of Colonoscopy provided in Cincinnati, listed below, and the price for each differs based upon your insurance type. As a healthcare consumer you should understand that prices of medical procedures vary and if you shop from the Cincinnati providers below you may be able to save money.
1 MedicalHealthTests.com also has its own estimation of endoscopy costs. 2  An endoscopy in New York can cost around $2,000 at a hospital. 3  However, physicians who perform the endoscopy may charge you $700. 4  The cost may further increase depending on the examinations done by the physician.
If you are covered with a health insurance, you are typically going to pay an average of $1,000 or slightly higher depending on how much the deductibles and the coinsurance amounts. For those not covered by medical insurance, the cost can range from $2,000-$3,000.
1 Screening barium enema: When this test is used instead of a flexible sigmoidoscopy or colonoscopy, Medicare covers it once every 48 months if you're 50 or over and once every 24 months if you're at high risk for colorectal cancer.
1 However, it can cost significantly more -- up to about $1,500 if performed in a hospital, which would charge a facility fee. 2  The disadvantage of flexible sigmoidoscopy is that the doctor only is able to view half of the colon, and it is recommended every five years instead of every 10.
A colonoscopy is a screening test for colon cancer. It is recommended that people of average risk get a colonoscopy or other type of screening every 10 years starting at age 50. People at high risk should begin screening earlier, and sometimes more often, according to the American Cancer Society.
A Colonoscopy costs $770 in Columbus when you take the median price of the 40 medical providers who perform Colonoscopy procedures in the Columbus, OH area.