Minwax® Clear Brushing Lacquer is a clear, protective finish for wood and metal. Dries to the touch in 30 minutes, ensuring a smooth, dust-free finish. Overview. Minwax® Clear Brushing Lacquer is a clear, protective finish for wood and metal. 1  Dries to the touch in 30 minutes, ensuring a smooth, dust-free finish. 2  Requires no sanding between coats.
The term lacquer originates from the Sanskrit word lāksh ā' (लाक्षा) meaning wax, which was used for both the Lac insect (because of their enormous number) and the scarlet resinous secretion it produces that was used as wood finish in ancient India and neighbouring areas. Raw lacquer can be coloured by the addition of small amounts of iron oxides, giving red or black depending on the oxide. There is some evidence that its use is even older than 8,000 years from archaeological digs in China. Later, pigments were added to make colour
Nitrocellulose lacquer, also called traditional lacquer, or solvent-based lacquer, stinks, literally, until it dries. It is a solvent based finish that forms a film by the evaporation of the solvent, not by a separate chemical reaction. Lacquer is normally sprayed, but dries so fast that overspray is typically dry before it hits the floor-thus making it practical to spray clear finishes without a dedicated spray booth (clear so the dry powder doesn't leave a color on the driveway or deck).
The confusion often comes from the fact that shellac comes from the lac beetle, but lacquer does not. Instead, lacquer is derived from the resin of a specific tree commonly referred to as a varnish tree. This resin is harvested from the tree's sap, and is then refined and mixed with lacquer thinner to create the common woodworking finish. Lacquer is commonly used with some paints to give a strong, durable paint finish. 
Lacquer. In a general sense, lacquer is a somewhat imprecise term for a clear or coloured wood finish that dries by solvent evaporation. It is also often a curing process as well that produces a hard, durable finish. 
Lacquer sheen is a measurement of the shine for a given lacquer. Different manufacturers have their own names and standards for their sheen. The most common names from least shiny to most shiny are: flat, matte, egg shell, satin, semi-gloss, and gloss (high). Raw lacquer can be coloured by the addition of small amounts of iron oxides, giving red or black depending on the oxide. There is some evidence that its use is even older than 8,000 years from archaeological digs in China. Later, pigments were added to make colours
Lacquer is a clear or coloured wood finish that dries by solvent evaporation or a curing process that produces a hard, durable finish. Raw lacquer can be coloured by the addition of small amounts of iron oxides, giving red or black depending on the oxide. There is some evidence that its use is even older than 8,000 years from archaeological digs in China. Later, pigments were added to make colours
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Lacquer is a coating that is generally seen on furniture, guitars, and some wooden sculptures. It can be matte, glossy, or resinous and can come in clear or colored styles. The clear type will give the object a slightly yellow look, while colored varieties will give the desired hue. The easiest way for a lacquer coating to be applied is by spraying, but it can also be brushed or wiped on with a rag. When using a brush only natural bristles should be used, and when wiping it on a clean, cotton cloth should be used.
Toxicodendron is a genus of flowering plants in the sumac family, Anacardiaceae. It contains woody trees, shrubs and vines, including poison ivy, poison oak, and the lacquer tree. All members of the genus produce the skin-irritating oil urushiol, which can cause a severe allergic reaction.