For example, positive anti-thyroid peroxidase and/or anti-thyroglobulin antibodies in a patient with hypothyroidism make a diagnosis of Hashimoto’s thyroiditis. If the thyroid antibodies are positive in a hyperthyroid patient, the most likely diagnosis is autoimmune thyroid disease. Whether the antibodies cause the disease or whether the disease causes the antibodies is not known; however, the finding of a high level of thyroid antibodies is strong evidence of this disease. Occasionally, low levels of thyroid antibodies are found with other types of
Testing may be performed as a follow-up when other thyroid test results such as total or free T3, free T4, and/or TSH indicate thyroid dysfunction. One or more thyroid antibody tests may also be ordered to determine if a person with an autoimmune condition is at risk of developing thyroid dysfunction. This may occur with disorders such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, or pernicious anemia. A person who is receiving treatment for thyroid cancer may be monitored with a thyroglobulin test. In this case, the thyroglobulin antibody test is used to determine if the antibody is present in the person's blood and likely to interfere with the test to measure the thyroglobulin level.
Antibodies that attack the thyroid gland cause inflammation and impaired function of the thyroid. Your doctor may also order a TPO antibody test if you are pregnant and have an autoimmune disease, especially one that involves the thyroid, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. Some people with TPO antibodies may not have thyroid disease. The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissu
Testing for thyroid antibodies, such as thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO), is primarily ordered to help diagnose an autoimmune thyroid disease and to distinguish it from other forms of thyroid dysfunction. A person who is receiving treatment for thyroid cancer may be monitored with a thyroglobulin test. In this case, the thyroglobulin antibody test is used to determine if the antibody is present in the person's blood and likely to interfere with the test to measure the thyroglobulin level.
Thyroid peroxidase test is a test that measures the level of an antibody that is directed against thyroid peroxidase (TPO). Autoantibodies to thyroid peroxidase (TPOAb) are produced within the body. The presence of TPOAb in the blood reflects a prior attack on the thyroid tissue by the body's immune system. TPO is found in thyroid follicle cells where it converts the thyroid hormone T4 to T3. The thyroid gland is located in the lower part of the neck, below the Adam's apple, wrapped around the trachea (windpipe).
The Thyroid Peroxidase Antibodies test can detect whether antibodies are present and which type (Hashimoto’s or Grave’s) they are. The test can also be used to rule out an autoimmune thyroid disorder and distinguish between an autoimmune or other type of thyroid dysfunction. Normal Results: A negative test result is normal indicating that there are no thyroid peroxidase antibodies present in the blood. Mildly High Results: Mildly high results may indicate one of several possible disorders or diseases including cancer, pernicious anemia, diabetes type 1, or rheumatoid arthritis.
The determination of TPO antibody levels is the most sensitive test for detecting autoimmune thyroid disease (eg, Hashimoto thyroiditis, idiopathic myxedema, and Graves disease) and detectable concentrations of anti-TPO antibodies are observed in most patients with these disorders. 
Thyroid peroxidase (TPO), an enzyme normally found in the thyroid gland, plays an important role in the production of thyroid hormones. A TPO test detects antibodies against TPO in the blood. The presence of TPO antibodies in your blood suggests that the cause of thyroid disease is an autoimmune disorder, such as Hashimoto's disease or Graves' disease. In autoimmune disorders, your immune system makes antibodies that mistakenly attack normal tissue
This test measures the amount of thyroid antibodies in your blood. The test can help find out whether you have a problem with your thyroid. Your thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland located near the base of your throat above your collarbone. The thyroid makes two hormones, T3 and T4. These hormones affect your energy levels, mood, weight, and other important aspects of your health. In some people, the immune system makes antibodies that affect the thyroid gland, causing health problems. These antibodies may target: Thyroid peroxidase (TPO). This can lead to a condition called Hashimoto's thyroiditis. This condition causes hypothyroidism, or underactive thyroid. Thyroglobulin (Tg)