Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) disease is a serious disease caused by bacteria. It usually affects children under 5 years old. It can also affect adults with certain medical conditions. Your child can get Hib disease by being around other children or adults who may have the bacteria and not know it.
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) is a bacterium that infects the lining of the brain, causing meningitis. Meningitis is caused by several different bacteria. However, before the Hib vaccine, Hib was by far the most common cause of meningitis. Children with meningitis often have fever, stiff neck and drowsiness.
Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine (Hib janan or PRP vaccine) is a conjugate vaccine developed for the prevention of invasive disease caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b bacteria. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended the use of the Hib vaccine.
The Hib vaccine protects your child against a severe bacterial infection that mostly affects babies and children under 5 years old. The bacteria can cause epiglottitis (severe swelling in the throat that makes it hard to breathe), a serious form of pneumonia, and a disease called bacterial meningitis.
In this article. Despite its name, the bacterium called Haemophilus influenzae type b, or Hib, does not cause the flu. It does, however, cause Hib disease, a serious health threat to children, especially those under age 5. Fortunately, the Hib vaccine, available since 1992, provides safe and effective protection against that threat.
Haemophilus influenzae type b vaccine prevents meningitis (an infection of the covering of the brain and spinal cord), pneumonia (lung infection), epiglottitis (a severe throat infection), and other serious infections caused by a type of bacteria called Haemophilus influenzae type b.
HIB is the acronym for the Haemophilus Influenzae Type B vaccine. The HIB vaccine is used to inhibit severe infections that resulting from the Haemophilus influenzae type b bacteria.
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) disease is a serious disease caused by bacteria. It usually affects children under 5 years old. It can also affect adults with certain medical conditions. Your child can get Hib disease by being around other children or adults who may have the bacteria and not know it.