A flush valve lies within the body of a urinal or toilet tank and is a mechanism that has been designed to flush a toilet. Typically, a lever or push button is used to operate the valve. Many valves are designed with a rubber flapper to hold fresh water in a tank while some older ones come with a ball instead.
Many modern commercial toilets use a flushometer instead of a standard flush valve. These toilets do not require a tank, so water enters the bowl directly from building's water supply piping. When the toilet is flushed, a special one-way valve is opened to bring fresh water into the toilet bowl.
The toilet Flush Valve controls the release of the water from the toilet tank into the toilet bowl once the toilet tank flush lever handle has been pressed. Fluidmaster has a complete line of highly efficient toilet flush valves to accomodate your needs.
A flush valve is the part inside the tank of the toilet that moves the water into the bowl. Toilet flush valves come in different sizes from 2” to 4” depending on the manufacturing of the toilet.
The toilet's flush valve assembly is most often the center of any leaking in the toilet's tank. It has moving parts that seal and drain, so as such is prone to be highly affected by corrosion or deterioration. The flush valve assembly consists of the Overflow Tube, Seat, Flapper Valve, and the Sponge Gasket.
A flush valve is a mechanism used to flush a toilet or urinal. The valve and associated hardware are located within the toilet tank or in the body of the urinal. Most toilets have a lever or push button activator, which is used to operate the flush valve.
How to Replace a Flush Valve. If water from your toilet tank is leaking into the bowl, the first suspect generally is the flush valve. In this video, we’ll show you how to remove the tank from the bowl to replace a flush valve and stop the leak. If you need to replace your entire toilet, you may be interested in our How to Replace a Toilet video.
The 4” flush valve is the largest of the flush valves with a piston that goes up and lets water escape from the tank at 360 degrees into the bowl. This type of flush valve delivers the water into the bowl faster than any other type of flush valve and it has great flushing power with very little use of water.