Families and Groups: Approximately one-third of the asteroids in the asteroid belt are members of an asteroid family. These are based on similarities in orbital elements – such as semi-major axis, eccentricity, orbital inclinations, and similar spectral features, all of which indicate a common origin. The asteroids of the inner Solar System and Jupiter: The donut-shaped asteroid belt is located between the orbits of Jupiter and Mars. Credit: Wikipedia Commons. First, there is the amount of energy it would have required to destroy a planet, which would have been staggering.
Some facts about asteroids: Asteroids are celestial bodies/objects that are in the solar system. An asteroid orbits the planets and sun and moon as a mid-sized celestial object - from 10 meters to 1000 km in diameter. A simple way which works for orbits with a small eccentricity, like most of the planets, is to find the maximum and minimum distance from the sun. If we call the distances Dma … x and Dmin, the eccentricity is given by this formula: e = (Dmax-Dmin) / (Dmax + Dmin).
The asteroid belt is the region of the Solar System located roughly between the orbits of the planets Mars and Jupiter. It is occupied by numerous irregularly shaped bodies called asteroids or minor planets. It contains about one-third of the mass of the asteroid belt. Discovered on January 1, 1801 by Giuseppe Piazzi, it was the first asteroid to be identified, though it was classified as a planet at the time. It is named after Ceres, the Roman goddess of growing plants, the harvest, and motherly love.
Over 200 of the asteroids in the belt are larger than 100 km. The biggest asteroid belt member, and the only dwarf planet found there, is Ceres. The total mass of the Asteroid belt is estimated to be 3.0-3.6X1021 kilograms, which is 4% of the Earth's Moon. It contains about one-third of the mass of the asteroid belt. Discovered on January 1, 1801 by Giuseppe Piazzi, it was the first asteroid to be identified, though it was classified as a planet at the time. It is named after Ceres, the Roman goddess of growing plants, the harvest, and motherly love.
The Themis asteroid family is found in the outer portion of the asteroid belt, at a mean distance of 3.13 AU from the Sun. This core group includes the asteroid 24 Themis (for which it is named), and is one of the more populous asteroid families. However, within the region of the Asteroid Belt, planestesimals were too strongly perturbed by Jupiter’s gravity to form a planet. These objects would therefore continue to orbit the Sun as before, occasionally colliding and producing smaller fragments and dust.
Families and Groups: Approximately one-third of the asteroids in the asteroid belt are members of an asteroid family. These are based on similarities in orbital elements – such as semi-major axis, eccentricity, orbital inclinations, and similar spectral features, all of which indicate a common origin. However, within the region of the Asteroid Belt, planestesimals were too strongly perturbed by Jupiter’s gravity to form a planet. These objects would therefore continue to orbit the Sun as before, occasionally colliding and producing smaller fragments and dust.
This region is known as the Asteroid belt. Asteroids have elliptical orbits; i.e. they have low eccentricity, and the variation of the distance between the sun and the asteroid does not change largely. Orbital periods of the asteroids range from tens to hundreds of years.
Most known asteroids are found in the Main Belt between Mars and Jupiter, or in the Kuiper Belt past the orbit of Neptune. But there are thousands that orbit at least as close to the Sun as Earth. The vast majority of asteroids are smaller than 1 kilometer in diameter. The largest asteroid in the Main Belt is Ceres, which has been designated a dwarf planet. A simple way which works for orbits with a small eccentricity, like most of the planets, is to find the maximum and minimum distance from the sun. If we call the distances Dma … x and Dmin, the eccentricity is given by this formula: e = (Dmax-Dmin) / (Dmax + Dmin).
EXCITATION OF ASTEROID BELT 341 FIG. 2. Eccentricity versus semimajor axis for the massive embryos (ﬁlledcircles, area proportional to mass of the embryo) and the test particles (crosses)at four different times. Jupiter is introduced in the simulation at 10 My. In the outer belt, the me-dian eccentricity is lower than that in the other parts because ofinstabilities due to Jupiter that tend to deplete the region abovethe solid line in Fig. 1a, with the exception of the bodies in the3:2 and 4:3 resonances.
Ceres, minor-planet designation 1 Ceres, is the largest asteroid and the only dwarf planet in the inner Solar System, orbiting in the asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter. It is a rock ice body 950 km (590 mi) in diameter and the smallest identified dwarf planet. It contains about one-third of the mass of the asteroid belt. Discovered on January 1, 1801 by Giuseppe Piazzi, it was the first asteroid to be identified, though it was classified as a planet at the time. It is named after Ceres, the Roman goddess of growing plants, the harvest, and motherly love.