For Ca(OH) 2, see calcium hydroxide. Limewater is the common name for a diluted solution of calcium hydroxide. Calcium hydroxide, Ca(OH) 2, is sparsely soluble in water (1.5 g/L at 25 °C). Pure limewater is clear and colourless, with a slight earthy smell and an alkaline bitter taste of calcium hydroxide. When excess calcium hydroxide is added to limewater, a suspension of calcium hydroxide particles results, giving it a milky aspect, in which case it has the common name of milk of lime.
Lime water is a solution of calcium hydroxide (slaked lime). When carbon dioxide is bubbled through it, a solid precipitate of calcium carbonate is formed. Calcium carbonate is chalk or limestone, and it is this that makes the lime water cloudy. calcium hydroxide + carbon dioxide calcium carbonate + water.
Because calcium hydroxide readily reacts with carbon dioxide, CO 2, to form calcium carbonate, a mixture of gases can be tested for the presence of CO 2 by shaking it with limewater in a clear container; if CO 2 is present, a cloudy calcium carbonate precipitate will form. 
Lime water is nothing but a solution of Calcium oxide in water. Calcium oxide reacts exothermically with water to form calcium hydroxide. The solution of Calcium Hydroxide is initially clear. However, due to reaction with atmospheric carbon dioxide, soluble Calcium Hydroxide gets converted to insoluble calcium carbonate. As a result the solution appears cloudy. Similar result is obtained if carbon dioxide is bubbled for a short time through lime water.
For (Ca(OH) 2) (aq) , see limewater. For the application of slaked lime as a wall colorant, see limewash. Calcium hydroxide, traditionally called slaked lime, is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula Ca (OH) 2. It is a colorless crystal or white powder and is obtained when calcium oxide (called lime or quicklime) is mixed, or  slaked  with water. Ca(OH) 2 → CaO + H 2 O. A suspension of fine calcium hydroxide particles in water is called milk of lime. The solution is called limewater and is a medium strength base that reacts with acids and attacks many metals. Limewater turns milky in the presence of carbon dioxide due to formation of calcium carbonate, a process called carbonatation :
Because calcium hydroxide readily reacts with carbon dioxide, CO 2, to form calcium carbonate, a mixture of gases can be tested for the presence of CO 2 by shaking it with limewater in a clear container; if CO 2 is present, a cloudy calcium carbonate precipitate will form. An aqueous solution of calcium hydroxide is known as lime water; a suspension is known as milk of lime. Calcium hydroxide readily absorbs atmospheric carbon dioxide: Ca(OH) 2 + CO 2 = CaCO 3 + H 2 O. The compound serves as an inexpensive alkali.
Carbon dioxide gas from a cylinder is bubbled through limewater and calcium carbonate solid is formed causing the limewater to become cloudy. Catch carbon dioxide gas in a jar from a burning bunsen burner. Pour in fresh limewater and it will become cloudy indicating that there was in fact CO2 in that jar. 
Limewater is actually a solution of calcium hydroxide, an alkali, and like any alkali, it will react with an acid. When carbon dioxide dissolves in water, it forms an acid which can react with the calcium hydroxide. If, however, you were to keep bubbling carbon dioxide through your cloudy limewater, it would indeed go clear again. The reason for this is that the cloudiness (calcium carbonate, chalk) reacts with more water and carbon dioxide to form a new compound called calcium hydrogencarbonate that is soluble in water.
When carbon dioxide is mixed with lime water, the lime and the carbon dioxide react to form calcium carbonate, meaning a solid in the particles is formed and this turns the lime water cloudy. When carbon dioxide is bubbled through lime water, it can react with the lime to form calcium carbonate, and this forms as a solid in small particles that make the water appea … r cloudy.