1 Worldwide, people “lose” their virginity the first time at an average age of 17.3, with individual country averages ranging from 15.6 in Iceland to 19.8 in India. 2  e. 3  Young people who take virginity pledges are just as likely to get sexually transmitted diseases as those who do not pledge. 
Interestingly, The average age for men to lose their virginity is 6 months more than the average age for women to lose their virginity. 30% of the population claim to have lost their virginity at the age of 16, or even less. Average Age to Lose Virginity Calculator What is the age that you have lost/plan to lose your virginity: What is your ethnicity: This virginity loss calculator is based on several researches and helps you find out your right age to lose
It also found that women and men are losing their virginity at a much younger age compared to previous generations. The average age they first have sex is 16, whereas those now in their 60s did not typically lose their virginity until the age of 19. Referring to the trend for adults having sex less frequently, Professor Wellings said: ‘Work comes into our home now there is no strict divide. People are taking laptops and iPads to bed.
With that in mind, the average age of virginity loss for American men is 16.9 years old, and the average age for American women is 17.2 years old. The percentage of Americans who have never had sex is consistently higher for young women than young men between ages 15-18. For Americans ages 15-44, about 58.1% were raised by two biological or adoptive parents, and 41.9% were not. The average age of virginity loss in a household with two parents is 17.6 years old. The average age of virginity loss in a household without two parents is 16 years old. This means Americans tend to lose their virginity a year-and-a-half earlier if they do not live with two parents
Virginity, or being a virgin, is when you haven't had sex. You 'lose your virginity' when, and only when, you have sex for the first time. The average age of first (heterosexual) intercourse is 16 in the UK. It was 21 in the 1950s.
The average age to lose virginity is going down around the world and currently stands at around 19 years, however as you will see from this calculator, there is a lot of variation in the average age to lose virginity based upon ethnicity. Average Age to Lose Virginity Calculator What is the age that you have lost/plan to lose your virginity: What is your ethnicity: This virginity loss calculator is based on several researches and helps you find out your right age to lose virginity.
By age 19 over 80 perfect of men have lost their virginity and by age 25 over 97 percent of men have had sex. After this point, the percentage of the male population that are still virgins remains relatively stable with little fluctuation after age 30. Although the number of men who are virgins by age 25 is 1 percent higher than women, they are much more likely to have had four or more partners versus a woman's average of two. So, any male virgins out there can feel free to blame those guys for why you haven't had sex yet.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the average age Americans lose their virginities (defined here as vaginal sexual intercourse) is 17.1 for both men and women. The CDC also reports that virgins make up 12.3 percent of females and 14.3 percent of males aged 20 to 24. 
So, if you haven't gotten your feet wet yet, no worries. In fact, the average age when people lose their virginity has risen. From 1988 to 2002 the percentage of teens who had had sex by age 17 fell by 15 percent in boys and 6 percent among girls. Religion, family situation, education and ethnicity also play a role, but only shift the data a little in any direction. Although the number of men who are virgins by age 25 is 1 percent higher than women, they are much more likely to have had four or more partners versus a woman's average of two. So, any male virgins out there can feel free to blame those guys for why you haven't had sex yet.