Please try again later. A pumice stone can be used on the bottoms of the feet to scrub away dead skin and calluses after soaking the feet in warm water for 15 minutes. Use the pumice stone in a circular pattern with beauty tips from an accomplished hairstylist in this free video on personal hygiene. Expert: Teri Lynne. 
It is abrasive, however, it is mild enough to use on rough skin. A pumice stone is generally for the feet to remove hard calluses. They are more popular during the spring and summer to help get feet sandal ready.. Manicures and pedicures commonly use pumice stones to get the desired results. Some manicurists even use a pumice stone to remove calluses on the palms of the hands. While hiring a manicurist may sound great, it is not in everyone's budget. The good news is that it is easy to do from home. First, clean and dry the hands thoroughly.
1) Choose a pumice stone that is intended to be used on skin. There are rough, jagged pumice stones that are meant for cleaning things like mineral buildup and you don’t want to use those unless you’ve accumulated a really dire layer of something on your foot. Okay, not even then. I. 2) Soak your feet in warm soapy water to soften the skin. You can use a pumice stone on dry skin, but it will feel a lot better if your skin is somewhat damp. 3) Soften the pumice stone by dipping it in some water.
6. You can remove body hair with a pumice stone. Soak a pumice stone in warm water for about 5 minutes. Lather skin with soap. Gently rub the pumice stone on skin in small circular motions for 1-2 minutes. Rinse off the soap and dry skin. Be sure to use lotion after hair removal
Formation. Pumice is volcanic rock that is produced when lava with high water and gas content is thrown from a volcano. The light, rocky mineral is formed as a result of lava cooling and hardening. Pumice rocks are filled with small gas bubbles. Pumice is safe to use on the body because it is a natural mineral and is non-toxic. It can be used to remove grime and dirt as well as to exfoliate the skin. Pumice is also used in its natural rock form to wear down calluses and remove dead skin on the feet and hands.
How to Use a Pumice Stone on the Feet. In a warm foot bath or a wash tub of warm water, soak feet for at least 15 minutes. It is also a good idea to add Epsom salt to the warm water for added benefits. Once the skin softens, moisten the pumice stone. Using the pumice stone, rub back and forth to remove dead skin. Some manicurists even use a pumice stone to remove calluses on the palms of the hands. While hiring a manicurist may sound great, it is not in everyone's budget. The good news is that it is easy to do from home. First, clean and dry the hands thoroughly.
Use it to remove hair. The ancient Greeks used pumice to remove body hair, and some still use it for this purpose. Pumice makes a gentle natural hair remover. Soak your skin in the bath or in a shower until it's warm and soft. Wet the pumice stone, then rub your skin using a gentle circular motion. The most common part of the body to exfoliate with a pumice stone is the feet. Heels tend to develop a layer of hard, calloused skin that can become cracked or scaled. Your elbows are another area that may benefit from exfoliation.
Then simply rub the pumice stone over the ring using a scrubbing motion. Repeat until the ring is gone. 1  You can use the stone in combination with toilet cleaner for more stubborn stains. 2  Be sure to use separate stones for toilet cleaning and body use. The most common part of the body to exfoliate with a pumice stone is the feet. Heels tend to develop a layer of hard, calloused skin that can become cracked or scaled. Your elbows are another area that may benefit from exfoliation.
Pumice is a light-colored, extremely porous igneous rock that forms during explosive volcanic eruptions. It is used as aggregate in lightweight concrete, as landscaping aggregate, and as an abrasive in a variety of industrial and consumer products. 