View full size image. Kilauea is one of the world’s most active volcanoes. It is a shield-type volcano that makes up the southeastern side of the Big Island of Hawaii. The volcano rises 4,190 feet (1,227 meters) above sea level and is about 14 percent of the land area of the Big Island.
Some of the largest volcanoes in the world are shield volcanoes. The Hawaiian Islands are composed of linear chains of these volcanoes including Kilauea and Mauna Loa on the island of Hawaii-- two of the world's most active volcanoes. The floor of the ocean is more than 15,000 feet deep at the bases of the islands. 
Examples of shield volcanoes are Kilauea and Mauna Loa (and their Hawaiian friends), Fernandina (and its Galapagos galápagos), Friends, Karthala Erta, Ale, Tolbachik, masaya and many. Others here are 4 of the volcanoes that comprise the big island Of'hawai. i Shield Volcanoes. Shield volcanoes are the largest volcanoes on Earth that actually look like volcanoes (i.e. not counting flood basalt flows). The Hawaiian shield volcanoes are the most famous examples. Shield volcanoes are almost exclusively basalt, a type of lava that is very fluid when erupted.
Mauna Kea, Hawaiʻi, a shield volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii. A shield volcano is a type of volcano usually built almost entirely of fluid magma flows. They are named for their large size and low profile, resembling a warrior's shield lying on the ground. A pāhoehoe lava fountain on Kilauea erupts. A lava lake in the caldera of Erta Ale, an active shield volcano in Ethiopia. Pāhoehoe flows enter the Pacific Ocean on Hawaiʻi island. Puʻu ʻōʻō, a parasitic cinder cone on Kilauea, lava fountaining at dusk in June 1983, near the start of its current eruptive cycle.
Examples of shield volcanoes are Kilauea and Mauna Loa (and their Hawaiian friends), Fernandina (and its Galapagos galápagos), Friends, Karthala Erta, Ale, Tolbachik, masaya and many. Others here are 4 of the volcanoes that comprise the big island Of'hawai. I they Are Mauna (KEA), Mk Mauna (LOA), Ml (Hualalai), h And (Kohala). k Shield Volcanoes. Shield volcanoes are the largest volcanoes on Earth that actually look like volcanoes (i.e. not counting flood basalt flows). The Hawaiian shield volcanoes are the most famous examples. Shield volcanoes are almost exclusively basalt, a type of lava that is very fluid when erupted.
Big Island volcanoes. The Big Island of Hawaii was created by five volcanoes: Mauna Kea, Mauna Loa, Kilauea, Kohala Volcano and Hualalai Volcano.The tallest volcanoes in the Pacfic Ocean are Mauna Kea and Mauna Loa. Mauna Kea is the tallest volcano in the Hawaiian chain. It is 4,205 meters (13,796 feet) above sea level
Kilauea is a shield volcano with a low angle and broad shape like the shields used by Hawaiian warriors of the past. They are usually built from the successive lava flows piling one on top of the other. The volcano’s current active period has been ongoing since 1983. 
The Mauna Loa volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii, seen here in both a oblique and satellite views, is the world's largest shield volcano: Mauna Loa from the southeast Mauna Loa satellite view. Mauna Loa from the southeast. Mauna Loa satellite view. Shield volcanoes are generated by Hawaiian eruptions. 