Provincial Sales Tax. Provincial sales tax (PST) is a retail sales tax that applies when a taxable good or service is purchased, acquired or brought into B.C., unless a specific exemption applies. The PST generally applies to: 1  the purchase or lease of new and used goods in B.C. Generally, the rate of PST is 7% on the purchase or lease price of goods and services, except for the following: 1  Accommodation (PDF) is 8% plus up to 3% municipal and regional district tax. 2  Vehicles (PDF) is 7% - 10% or 12%. 3  Boats (PDF) is 7% or 12%.
The Canadian sales taxes include the Provincial Sales Tax (PST), the Quebec Sales Tax (QST), the Goods and Services Tax (GST), and the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) which is a combination of the PST and the GST in some provinces. 
Separate Provincial Sales Taxes (PST) are collected in the provinces of British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Manitoba and Quebec (Quebec Sales Tax or QST, French: Taxe de vente du Quebec québec OR). tvq Prince Edward Island switched to a HST on April 1, 2013, the same date that British Columbia reverted to a separate GST/PST after their adoption of a HST in 2010 was rejected in a referendum. Goods to which the tax is applied vary by province, as does the rate.
In Canada sales taxes are applied in three different ways-at the federal level through the Goods and Services Tax (GST) , at the provincial level through a provincial sales tax (PST) , sometimes called the retail sales tax, or through the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) , a single tax combining the GST and PST. 
1 The combined Harmonized Sales Tax (HST), also a value-added tax, a single, blended combination of the PST and GST which is used in Ontario, (formerly) British Columbia, and the Atlantic provinces; New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia and Prince Edward Island. Prince Edward Island switched to a HST on April 1, 2013, the same date that British Columbia reverted to a separate GST/PST after their adoption of a HST in 2010 was rejected in a referendum. Goods to which the tax is applied vary by province, as does the rate.
Some provinces have combined their provincial sales tax with the goods and services tax (GST) to create a harmonized sales tax (HST). Complete list of GST/HST rates for every province. On April 1, 2013, British Columbia (BC) and Prince Edward Island (PEI) changed the way their sales taxes are administered. For new or revised GST/HST publications, go to Forms and publications. I do business in: 1  British Columbia. 2  Prince Edward Island
The former British Columbia Provincial Sales Tax (PST) was introduced on July 1, 1948 as part of the Social Service Tax Act. The tax was initially set at 3%, but later rose to 7%. The PST was collected on most goods and some services. The sales taxes currently levied in the province are the separate 7% PST and 5% GST.
Personal Income Tax. If you were a B.C. resident on December 31 or earned income in B.C. you may need to file an income tax return for the tax year. B.C. income taxes are administered by the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA). Forms to calculate your B.C. income tax are included with the T1 Income Tax Return. Even if you don’t owe income tax, you can file an income tax return to claim a refund, credits, or benefits. 
Sales taxes in British Columbia are consumption taxes levied in the province since the introduction of the Provincial Sales Tax (PST) on 1 July 1948, part of the Social Service Tax Act. Sales in the province have also been subject to the federal Goods and Services Tax (GST) since its introduction on 1 January 1991. On 1 July 2010, the PST and GST were combined into the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) levied according to the provisions of the GST. The sales taxes currently levied in the province are the separate 7% PST and 5% GST.
In Canada, three types of sales taxes are levied. These are as follows: 1  Provincial sales taxes (PST), levied by the provinces. 2  Goods and Services Tax (GST), a value-added tax levied by the federal government. Prince Edward Island switched to a HST on April 1, 2013, the same date that British Columbia reverted to a separate GST/PST after their adoption of a HST in 2010 was rejected in a referendum. Goods to which the tax is applied vary by province, as does the rate.