Lingual nerve. The lingual nerve is located near the sides of the tongue (specifically below the lateral pterygoid muscle), and is responsible for its senses of taste and touch. The lingual nerve provides senses to the tongue's front two-thirds, as well as to the underside that surrounds it. It branches off the mandibular nerve and twists around the submandibular duct to reach the tongue.
Lingual Nerve Injury from Anesthetic Injections. Damage to the lingual nerve results in pain within the tongue and along the mucosa on tongue side of the teeth (inner buccal mucosa). The pain can be burning, dull, achy or a combination. You may also have numbness as the only symptom, or can have a combination of numbness and pain. The purpose of the anesthesia is to numb the inferior alveolar nerve, and the lingual nerve is just an innocent bystander. Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3. The mechanism of injury is not known for sure. It includes trauma from the needle itself.
The facial nerve's chorda tympani is one of the nerve fibers the lingual nerve carries to the skull, a process by which the lingual nerve allows taste to be transmitted to the brain. This information is then returned to the front two-thirds of the tongue. The lingual nerve provides senses to the tongue's front two-thirds, as well as to the underside that surrounds it. It branches off the mandibular nerve and twists around the submandibular duct to reach
Anatomy of the Lingual Nerve. The lingual nerve is a branch of the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve supplying the anterior two thirds of the tongue and responding to stimuli of pressure, touch, and temperature (Image #1 & 2). The mandibular nerve (V3) is the largest of the three branches of the trigeminal nerve. We are interested in the posterior division of the mandibular nerve which separates into the lingual nerve and the inferior alveolar nerve (Image #3).
Image #4: Path of the lingual nerve which tracks to the inside of the mandible (lower jaw). There is a boney barrier between the third molar and the lingual nerve called the lingual plate (Image #5) which the lingual nerve runs along on the lingual side (tongue side). Image #5: Lingual nerve in relation to the lingual plate and third molar. The mandibular nerve (V3) is the largest of the three branches of the trigeminal nerve. We are interested in the posterior division of the mandibular nerve which separates into the lingual nerve and the inferior alveolar nerve (Image #3).
Numb Tongue or Numb Lip from Nerve Damage. A numb tongue can be the result of lingual nerve damage during dental treatment. The nerve for sensation to the tongue is called the lingual nerve. On the other hand, a numb lip will be the result of inferior alveolar nerve damage. It can feel like a numb mouth, although it affects just one side of the lower lip. In routine dental procedures, it is very unusual for a numb tongue or a numb lip to be totally permanent.
Lingual nerve damage is one of the major complications of tooth extraction. There are common symptoms of lingual nerve damage which are similar among affected individuals. In this article, there is a brief discussion on the lingual nerve damage symptoms. Let us examine them. 1 Due to the damage to the tongue nerve, the tongue might lose its function and behave as dead. 2  Thus, patients affected with lingual nerve damage might not have control on their saliva. 3  Pain: This is most common symptom among all patients affected with tongue nerve damage after the tooth extraction procedure.
Image #3: Mandibular Nerve with the lingual nerve and the inferior alveolar nerve. The lingual nerve takes the inside track next to the mandible and runs next to the third molar (wisdom tooth or teeth No. 17 on the left and No. 32 on the right-Image #3) on the lingual side (tongue side) of the third molar(Image #5). The mandibular nerve (V3) is the largest of the three branches of the trigeminal nerve. We are interested in the posterior division of the mandibular nerve which separates into the lingual nerve and the inferior alveolar nerve (Image #3).
4 Lingual nerve injury What does this nerve supply sensation to? The lingual nerve supplies sensation to each side of the tongue on the top and underside of the tongue. It also supplies the floor of the mouth and lingual gums of the lower teeth. 