Maltitol is a disaccharide produced by hydrogenation of maltose obtained from starch. Maltitol syrup, a hydrogenated starch hydrolysate, is created by hydrogenating corn syrup: a mixture of carbohydrates produced from the hydrolysis of starch; this product contains between 50% and 80% maltitol by weight. It is used to replace table sugar because it is half as caloric, does not promote tooth decay, and has a somewhat lesser effect on blood glucose. In chemical terms, maltitol is known as 4-O-α-glucopyranosyl-D-sorbitol. It is used in commercial products under trade names such as Lesys, Maltisweet and SweetPearl.
Maltitol is called a sugar alcohol because its molecule resembles that of alcohol. (It contains no alcohol.) Maltitol is about 90% as sweet as sugar and has a glycemic index of 32-36, about half that of sugar. It contains 2.1 calories per gram while sugar contains 4 calories per gram. Maltitol is a natural plant-based sweetener that belongs to a family of sweeteners called polyols or sugar alcohols. Polyols are probable prebiotics that occur naturally in berries, fruits, vegetable and grains.
Maltitol is an artificially produced sweetener that is a member of the sugar alcohol family. According to the Calorie Control Council, maltitol contains 90 percent of the sweetness of sugar and has 2.1 calories per gram. The European Journal of Clinical Nutrition notes that maltitol is associated with stomach and abdominal pain in adults. A placebo controlled, double-blind study on health volunteers showed that consuming levels as low as 40 g of maltitol daily would trigger side effects of abdominal pain.
Maltitol syrup is made from maltitol, a sugar alcohol or polyol used in low-carbohydrate, sugar-free products such as diet snacks, nutrition bars and candy. Like most sugar alternatives and low-carbohydrate sweeteners, maltitol has only a fraction of the carbohydrates in real sugar, but it is sweet enough to produce the equivalent taste in the products it is used in.
Maltitol is a sugar alcohol (a polyol) used as a sugar substitute. It has 75–90% of the sweetness of sucrose (table sugar) and nearly identical properties, except for browning. It is used to replace table sugar because it is half as caloric, does not promote tooth decay, and has a somewhat lesser effect on blood glucose. In chemical terms, maltitol is known as 4-O-α-glucopyranosyl-D-sorbitol. It is used in commercial products under trade names such as Lesys, Maltisweet and SweetPearl.
Maltitol is a sugar substitute that can be used to make hard candies. Some evidence suggests that maltitol can minimize the chances of developing tooth decay. Because it has less side effects than maltitol, erythritol may be used as a zero calorie sweetener in beverages. The majority of a diabetic's diet should be composed of unprocessed foods, although the occasional sugar substitute is OK for most people. Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Sometimes used as a sugar substitute, maltitol is a polyol or sugar substitute that is understood to be almost as sweet as conventional granulated sugar. Measured in a manner that is similar to sugar, it can be used in a number of recipes.
Maltitol. Maltitol is a sugar alcohol (also called a polyol) with very similar properties to sugar but less calories. Like other sugar alcohols (xylitol, mannitol etc) it has a slightly laxative effect and it is not recommended to consume more than 50 gm per day
Maltitol is used as a sugar substitute and can be used to reduce the caloric, sugar and fat content of foods it is added to. It tastes almost as sweet as sugar, and is often used in the making of sweets, such as baked goods, candy, gum, ice cream and chocolate. 1 1 2 2. Maltitol is a pleasant-tasting sugar substitute that is almost as sweet as sugar and can be used as a replacement for sugar in almost any recipe.