Dorrance Gaines answered on 4/21/2014. Bovril is the trademarked name of a meat extract made in England since 1886. It is commonly diluted with hot water to make a nutritious drink. Its ingredients include beef stock, yeast extract, salt, starch, dehydrated beef, spice extracts and vitamins. A similar formulation is used to make Chicken Bovril. Bovril. Beef Bovril is made from beef stock, yeast extract, salt, waxy maize starch, colour, dehydrated beef, flavour enhancer that is disodium 5'-ribonucleotides and vitamin b12 among other ingredients....
Product Description. Bovril is a thick beef and yeast extract that's been warming the nation with its beefy taste since 1886. Add to a mug of hot water and enjoy as a hearty drink, spread on toast, or use it as a rich, beefy stock for your favourite British dishes. 
Bovril is the trademarked name of a thick, salty meat extract, developed in the 1870s by John Lawson Johnston. It is sold in a distinctive, bulbous jar. Bovril is made in Burton upon Trent, Staffordshire; owned and distributed by Unilever UK. Bovril can be made into a drink by diluting with hot water, or less commonly, with milk. It can be used as a flavouring for soups, stews or porridge, or spread on bread, especially toast. Bovril's instant beef stock was launched in 1966 and its King of Beef range of instant flavours for stews, casseroles and gravy in 1971. In 1971, Cavenham Foods acquired the Bovril Company but then sold most of its dairies and South American operations to finance further take-overs. The brand is now owned by Unilever.
Broome Barbie answered on 5/24/2014. Beef Bovril is made from beef stock, yeast extract, salt, waxy maize starch, colour, dehydrated beef, flavour enhancer that is disodium 5'-ribonucleotides and vitamin b12 among other ingredients. There is also chicken Bovril and beef Bovril cubes. (Reference-ask.com). The Q&A Community about Food and Drink Sign in to read answers or ask questions. Beef Bovril is made from beef stock, yeast extract, salt, waxy maize starch, colour, dehydrated beef, flavour enhancer that is disodium 5'-ribonucleotides and vitamin b12 among other ingredients.
Marmite can also be made into a savoury hot drink by adding one teaspoon to a mug of hot water much like Oxo and Bovril. Marmite is paired with cheese, such as in a cheese sandwich, and has been used as an additional flavouring in Mini Cheddars, a cheese-flavoured biscuit snack. In 1990, Marmite Limited – which had become a subsidiary of Bovril Limited – was bought by CPC International Inc, which changed its name to Best Foods Inc in 1998. Best Foods Inc subsequently merged with Unilever in 2000, and Marmite is now a trademark owned by Unilever.
Bovril is the trademarked name of a thick, salty beef extract, sold in a distinctive, bulbous jar. A spoonful of the semi-liquid paste in hot water makes a savoury drink. It can also be used as a flavouring for soups, stews or porridge, or spread on bread, especially toast. But what I loved most to do with Bovril was spread some on a slice of well buttered bread, fold over and eat. I guess a Bovril Sarnie (sandwich) at that time would rate about as popular with kids as the Peanut Butter sandwich here in the States.
Marmite is made from yeast extract, a by-product of beer brewing. Other similar products include the Australian Vegemite, which is saltier in taste, the Swiss Cenovis and the German Vitam-R. In 1990, Marmite Limited – which had become a subsidiary of Bovril Limited – was bought by CPC International Inc, which changed its name to Best Foods Inc in 1998. Best Foods Inc subsequently merged with Unilever in 2000, and Marmite is now a trademark owned by Unilever.