1 Passport Fees - $135 - You must pay these fees when you turn in your passport application. 2  Pictures - $8 or more depending on where you get the pictures taken, or if you do it yourself, they are free. 3  Some post offices can do them for a fee of $15, but this service is not available at every location. Here are all of the costs for your passport. 1 
They will utilize the DS-11 form to apply for or renew a passport. Minors who apply or renew for a passport book and card will have to pay an application fee of $95 and an execution fee of $25. Those looking to obtain only a minor book will need to pay an $80 application fee and a $25 execution fee. 
Expediting a passport. You can get your passport expedited in roughly two to three weeks (door-to-door) via the State Department when you pay an extra $60 plus $12.85 for overnight delivery in addition to the standard processing fees. 
Renew or replace your adult passport. You can renew or replace your passport at any time. It costs £72.50, or £82.25 through the Post Office’s Passport Check and Send service. Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one, up to a maximum of 9 months.
You pay a fee of $110 for a passport renewal. You save $25 on a renewal because you do not have to pay the acceptance fee portion, which you must pay when getting a new one. You need to bring in all the same paperwork that was needed to get a new passport along with your current passport to get a renewal. Here are all of the costs for your passport. 1  Passport Fees - $135 - You must pay these fees when you turn in your passport application. 2  Pictures - $8 or more depending on where you get the pictures taken, or if you do it yourself, they are free.
Passport fees. A standard adult first passport or renewal costs £72.50, or £82.25 if you use the Post Office’s Passport Check and Send service. Child passports cost £46, or £55.75 using Check and Send. You can’t get a refund if you cancel your application or you’re not entitled to a passport
The total cost of renewing a passport depends on what service you request, how quickly you need it and what method you use to obtain it. The application fee for renewing a passport book is $110. The State Department charges $60 for expedited service. Fees for professional passport expediting service start at approximately $79 for 10-day service. The highests fee, of course, is for same day passport renewal. Other related expenses include postage and handling and photos.
The cost of a passport can vary depending on the type of service you require, how quickly you need to get the application processed and any additional services you might need. There is an application fee for most services ranging from only $15 for a passport card for a minor to $110 for a new passport or renewal. An execution fee of $25 is mandatory when submitting Form DS-11. This is paid to the agent that adjudicates the application. The fees for some of the optional services are $60 for expedited service, $14.85 for overnight delivery of your new passport and $150 for a file search
1 If you are obtaining a passport renewal by mail, you only have to pay the application fee of $110. 2  You can request expedited service from the US Passport Agency for an additional $60.00, plus the cost of overnight shipping to and from the agency. 3  This service takes 2-3 weeks. Here’s a quick breakdown of current government fees: 1  If you’re age 16 or older and applying for a first time adult passport or for a lost, stolen or damaged replacement, you’ll pay a $110.00 application fee and a $25.00 execution fee for a passport book. 2  The total fee is $135.00.