Endocrine glands do not form ducts and release their products directly into the blood. As a result, glands can be classified by whether or not they have a duct. Another difference between endocrine and exocrine glands is that exocrine glands are usually much simpler and easier to categorize than endocrine ones. Although they are often made up of multiple cells, exocrine glands may be as small as a single cell. 
Summary: 1. Exocrine glands have ducts to carry hormones, while endocrine glands are ductless. 2. Exocrine hormones are released into the external environment, or outside of the body. Endocrine hormones are released into the internal environment, or inside of the body. 3. Exocrine glands have sub-classifications. 4. Endocrine response is slower because hormones travel through the blood. 5.
Report Abuse. Endocrine glands: these are glands that secrete their hormones directly into the blood rather than through a duct. Examples include-the thyroid gland, adrenal gland, and pituitary gland. Exocrine glands: these glands secrete enzymes into ducts. Examples include-sweat glands, salivary glands. Strawberry · 8 years ago.
Lesson Summary. We looked at the differences between endocrine and exocrine glands. Endocrine glands release chemical substances directly into the bloodstream or tissues of the body.The chemical substances released by the endocrine glands are known as hormones. 
• The main difference between the endocrine gland and exocrine gland is that, an endocrine gland lacks ducts and remains as blocks of tissue. • So, endocrine gland secrets chemical substances directly to the blood stream, while exocrine gland secrets its product into a duct. Differences Between Endocrine vs Exocrine Glands. Gland is a specific structure which secrets various chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones, and metabolites. There are two types of glands in the body called endocrine glands and exocrine glands. Throughout the embryo development, endocrine glands lack ducts and remain as blocks of tissue
Exocrine Glands. Exocrine gland is a gland that secretes chemical substances into ducts. As an example, sweat gland and salivary glands. In salivary glands, saliva is produced within the gland, and it secrets into saliva duct and travels to the surface. Differences Between Endocrine vs Exocrine Glands. Gland is a specific structure which secrets various chemical substances such as enzymes, hormones, and metabolites. There are two types of glands in the body called endocrine glands and exocrine glands. Throughout the embryo development, endocrine glands lack ducts and remain as blocks of tissu
Endocrine glands secrete their hormones directly into the bloodstream. Exocrine glands secrete their hormones into a duct that leaves the body externally: for example, sweat glands empty onto the skin. Endocrine gland secretes compounds (hormones) into the blood. Exocrine gland secretes compounds outside of the body (including into the GI tract since the GI tract is topologically outside of the body). Exocrine glands have ducts that carry their secretory product to a surface. These glands include the sweat, sebaceous, and mammary glands and, the glands that secrete digestive enzymes.The endocrine glands do not have ducts to carry their product to a surface. 
The endocrine system controls the body activities by producing chemical substances called hormones are chemical messengers, secreted by ductless gland known as endocrine glands. Exocrine gland secrete their products into ducts or channels, that carry them either to the outside of the body or into body cavities. 
What is the difference between an endocrine and exocrine gland? a. endocrine glands use ducts to release their secretions, exocrine glands are ductless c. exocrine glands can secrete sweat, endocrine. 