Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive rod-shaped bacterium related to Bacillus and Clostridium, but it does not form endospores. Listeria monocytogenes is the agent of listeriosis, a serious infection caused by eating food contaminated with the bacteria. The two medically-important genera are Bacillus, the members of which are aerobic sporeformers in the soils, and Clostridium, whose species are anaerobic sporeformers of soils, sediments and the intestinal tracts of animals. Figure 10. Endospore-forming bacilli (phase contrast illumination).
An endospore is not a reproductive structure but rather a resistant, dormant survival form of the organism. Endospores are quite resistant to high temperatures (including boiling), most disinfectants, low energy radiation, drying, etc. Under conditions of starvation, especially the lack of carbon and nitrogen sources, a single endospores form within some of the bacteria. The process is called sporulation (def). First the DNA replicates (Fig. 3, step 1)and a cytoplasmic membrane septum forms at one end of the cell (Fig.
An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. The name endospore is suggestive of a spore or seed-like form (endo means within), but it is not a true spore (i.e., not an offspring). It is a stripped-down, dormant form to which the bacterium can reduce itself. Variations in endospore morphology: (1, 4) central endospore; (2, 3, 5) terminal endospore; (6) lateral endospore. Bacteria produce a single endospore internally. The spore is sometimes surrounded by a thin covering known as the exosporium, which overlies the spore coat.
When the environment becomes more favorable, the endospore can reactivate itself to the vegetative state. Most types of bacteria cannot change to the endospore form. Examples of bacteria that can form endospores include Bacillus and Clostridium. Variations in endospore morphology: (1, 4) central endospore; (2, 3, 5) terminal endospore; (6) lateral endospore. Bacteria produce a single endospore internally. The spore is sometimes surrounded by a thin covering known as the exosporium, which overlies the spore coat.
Endospores. Endospores are a resistant, dormant, survival form of bacteria. They are resistant to high temperatures, most disinfectants, low level radiation and drying. Endospores can survive thousands of years until environmental stimuli trigger germination. 
Bacteria in the genera Bacillus and Clostridium are able to enter a state of dormancy during unfavorable growth conditions. These bacteria form endospores that are extremely resistant to environmental extremes, chemical degradation, and the effects of time. An endospore is an extremely resistant dormant cell structure produced by some bacterial species. If you break down the term endospore, 'endo-' means 'inside' and '-spore' refers to the 'dormant structure,' so the endospore is a structured formed inside the cell.
Endospores are dormant, non-reproductive and enzymatically inert forms of bacterial vegetative cells [1] . Endospore-producing bacteria are more conventionally termed “sporulating bacteria”. Sporulating bacteria are derived from the [1] Firmicute phylum and mainly consist of [2] Gram positive bacteria [7] . These endospore-forming bacteria belong to the [3] Bacillus and Clostridium genus [2] . An endospore is a reduced form of a bacterium. It is comprised of a core containing only the bare essentials necessary for the initiation of bacterial growth. 
The cell capsule is a very large structure of some prokaryotic cells, such as bacterial cells. It is a polysaccharide layer that lies outside the cell envelope of bacteria, and is thus deemed part of the outer envelope of a bacterial cell. 
1. Endospores are dormant alternate life forms produced by a few genera of bacteria. 2. The genus Bacillus (an obligate aerobe often living in the soil) and the genus Clostridium (an obligate anaerobe living in the gastrointestinal tract of animals) produce endospores. 3. Under conditions of starvation, especially the lack of carbon and nitrogen sources, a single endospores form within some of the bacteria. The process is called sporulation (def). First the DNA replicates (Fig. 3, step 1)and a cytoplasmic membrane septum forms at one end of the cell (Fig.
Endospore-forming bacteria are characterized by the location (position) of the endospore in the mother cell (sporangium) before its release. The spore may be central, terminal or subterminal, and the sporangium may or may not be swollen to accommodate the spore. The two medically-important genera are Bacillus, the members of which are aerobic sporeformers in the soils, and Clostridium, whose species are anaerobic sporeformers of soils, sediments and the intestinal tracts of animals. Figure 10. Endospore-forming bacilli (phase contrast illumination).