All varieties and types of muskmelon belong to the same genus and species; however, cantaloupe belongs to a different botanical variety (subgroup) than winter type muskmelons. Muskmelons with netted, green and yellow-green rinds are called cantaloupes by growers and the market trade. Cantaloupes, and more specifically the winter type muskmelons, are better adapted to the drier southwestern areas of the state where foli-age diseases are less prominent. Although hot, dry weather is favorable for cantaloupes, they can be grown successfully in most areas if diseases can be managed.
Cantaloupes are related to cucumbers. The name cantaloupe (Cucumis melo) once only referred to an orange-fleshed melon with no netting on the skin. In the United States, it generally refers to any melon with orange, juicy flesh or certain melons with netted skins. 
Soil pH influences the availability of nutrients in the soil, the activities of soil microorganisms and, subsequently, plant growth, yield and cantaloupe quality. Maintaining soil pH in the 6.0 to 6.5 range is important for cantaloupe production. Water is a critical component in the production of cantaloupes and specialty melons in Georgia. Most melon crops are potentially deep-rooted (3 to 4 feet); however, in Georgia soils the effective rooting depth is generally much less.
Cantaloupes are sometimes grouped as Eastern or Western types. Eastern cantaloupe varieties feature rounded 5- to 7-pound fruits with sutures, netting, and a large seed cavity. Western cantaloupe types are oval-shaped 3- to 5-pound fruits without sutures and have coarse netting.
Varieties & Availability. While there are many different types of cantaloupes grown throughout the world, Western Shipper varieties are dominant in California. Seed companies have their own lines of Western Shipper varieties and growers choose which variety to plant based upon soil type, weather condition, and time of year. 
Cantaloupe (also cantelope, cantaloup, muskmelon (India and the United States), mushmelon, rockmelon, sweet melon, honeydew, Persian melon, or spanspek (South Africa)) refers to a variety of Cucumis melo, a species in the family Cucurbitaceae. Cantaloupes range in weight from 0.5 to 5 kilograms (1.1 to 11.0 lb). Originally, cantaloupe referred only to the non-netted, orange-fleshed melons of Europe. However, in more recent US usage, it has come to mean any orange-fleshed melon (C. melo). Cantaloupe is the most popular variety of melon in the United States. The North American cantaloupe, common in the United States, Mexico, and in some parts of Canada, is actually a muskmelon, a different variety of Cucumis melo, and has a net-like (or reticulated) skin covering. It is a round melon with firm, orange, moderately sweet flesh and a thin, reticulated, light-brown rind.
Pollination and flower types. Cucumbers, squash, pumpkin and watermelon have separate male and female flowers. Cantaloupe (muskmelon) has two flower types, male flowers and complete flowers (having both male and female parts). Cantaloupe flowers have a pollination window of one day. Pollen must be transferred from the male flower to the female flower on this day for seed set and fruit development. 
High temperatures or high fertility can cause the cantaloupe to produce only male blooms which results in poor fruit set. Nematodes can also cause small plants, profusion of blooms and no fruit. Root knot is a species of nematode which causes galls or swellings on plant roots. Honeydew melons do not slip from the vine as cantaloupes do and are mature when they become creamy to golden yellow in color and the blossom-end softens slightly. Q. The foliage on my cantaloupe is developing yellow spots with a downy growth underneath.
Cantaloupe (Cucumis melo) is commonly called muskmelon; however, no true cantaloupes are actually grown commercially in the United States. True cantaloupes are rough, warty fruit primarily grown in Europe, but in America  cantaloupe has become the generic name of all netted, musk-scented melons. Planting. Cantaloupe and honeydew are warm-season crops that grow best at average air temperatures between 65 and 75 °F. It is best to plant when the soil temperature is at least 60 to 65 °F. These melons are very tender and should be planted after the last chance of frost.
The specialty type muskmelons are called winter melons, and compared to cantaloupe, they are later maturing, having firmer and thicker flesh, and can be stored.the risk of diseases, do not plant on land where cantaloupe, Cantaloupes are the most important type of muskmelon grown in Oklahoma. Cantaloupes, and more specifically the winter type muskmelons, are better adapted to the drier southwestern areas of the state where foli-age diseases are less prominent. Although hot, dry weather is favorable for cantaloupes, they can be grown successfully in most areas if diseases can be managed.