Yeah, and if you climb a mountain and you turn around. And if you see my reflection in the snow-covered hills. Well, the landslide brought it down. And if you see my reflection in the snow-covered hills. Landslide from 2002 by the Dixie Chicks with Sheryl Crow (Sheryl Crow remix). Lyrics below. LYRICS: I took my love and I took it down. I climbed a mountain and I turned around. And I saw my reflection in the snow-covered hills. Well, the landslide brought me down. Oh, mirror in the sky, what is love. Can the child within my heart rise above
So, take this love and take it down. Yeah, and if you climb a mountain and ya turn around. And if you see my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well the landslide brought me down. And if you see my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well maybe. Well maybe. Well maybe. The landslide will bring you down. Songwriters. NICKS, STEVIE. Published by. Lyrics © Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC. I took my love and I took it down. Climbed a mountain then I turned around. And I saw my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well the landslide brought me down. Oh, mirror in the sky.
I climb a mountain and turn around. And if you see my reflection in the snow-covered hills. Will the landslide bring you down. And if you see my reflection in the snow-covered hills. Will the landslide bring you down, oh, oh. The landslide bring you down. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
Lastet opp 27. apr. 2010. Landslide from 2002 by the Dixie Chicks with Sheryl Crow (Sheryl Crow remix). Lyrics below. LYRICS: I took my love and I took it down. I climbed a mountain and I turned around. And I saw my reflection in the snow-covered hills. Well, the landslide brought me down. Oh, mirror in the sky, what is love. Can the child within my heart rise above
Even children get older. And I'm getting older too. Oh, take my love, take it down. Climb a mountain and turn around. If you see my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well the landslide will bring it down. If you see my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well the landslide will bring it down. 
I'm getting older, too. I took my love and took it down. I climbed a mountain, I turned around. And if you see my reflection in the snow covered hill. The landslide brought it down. The landslide brought it down. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
I'm really not sure how I'm going to navigate the changing ocean tides of my life. And it comes in waves, just like the ocean. One minute you're floating along, loving life with an adorable almost-2-year-old. You could've set your watch by it. But I always remember the words of the great Tracy Lawrence...The only thing that stays the same is everything changes, everything changes. Posted by Katrine on February 17, 2010 at 04:40 PM EST #. 1.
And if you see my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well, the landslide bring it down. And if you see my reflection in the snow covered hills. Well, the landslide bring it down. Oh, the landslide bring it down. Songwriters. NICKS, STEVIE. Published by. Lyrics © Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC. 