New Zealand has mild temperatures, moderately high rainfall, and many hours of sunshine throughout most of the country. New Zealand's climate is dominated by two main geographical features: the mountains and the sea. Check the New Zealand weather map for current temperatures and to view a 4 day weather forecast in all main centres. Gallipoli: The scale of our war. Start with a special introduction from a Te Papa Tour Host, then explore at your leisure – before the doors open.
Auckland Yearly Weather Summary. Auckland weather is warm and humid during the summers and winter weather is mild and damp. Auckland is the warmest main centre of New Zealand and is also the sunniest area with maximum sunshine. The average maximum daytime temperature is 23.7 °C in February and 14.5°C in July. 
New Zealand has mild temperatures, moderately high rainfall, and many hours of sunshine throughout most of the country. New Zealand's climate is dominated by two main geographical features: the mountains and the sea. In summer, the average maximum temperature ranges between 20-30 C and in winter between 10-15 C. You can check on weather conditions in New Zealand on the New Zealand Met Service Web site.
New Zealand has a largely temperate climate. While the far north has subtropical weather during summer, and inland alpine areas of the South Island can be as cold as -10 C in winter, most of the country lies close to the coast, which means mild temperatures, moderate rainfall, and abundant sunshine. Check the New Zealand weather map for current temperatures and to view a 4 day weather forecast in all main centres. Gallipoli: The scale of our war. Start with a special introduction from a Te Papa Tour Host, then explore at your leisure – before the doors open.
While the far north has subtropical weather during summer, and inland alpine areas of the South Island can be as cold as -10°C (14°F) in winter, most of the country lies close to the coast, which means mild temperatures. The average New Zealand temperature decreases as you travel south. January and February are the warmest months, and July is the coldest month of the year. In summer, the average maximum temperature ranges between 20-30ºC (70-90°F) and in winter between 10-15ºC (50-60°F). You can check on New Zealand weather conditions on the New Zealand Met Service website
Because New Zealand lies in the Southern Hemisphere, the average temperature decreases as you travel south. The north of New Zealand is subtropical and the south temperate. The warmest months are December, January and February, and the coldest June, July and August. Check the New Zealand weather map for current temperatures and to view a 4 day weather forecast in all main centres. Gallipoli: The scale of our war. Start with a special introduction from a Te Papa Tour Host, then explore at your leisure – before the doors open.
The north of New Zealand is subtropical and the south temperate. The warmest months are December, January and February, and the coldest June, July and August. In summer, the average maximum temperature ranges between 20-30 C and in winter between 10-15 C. You can check on weather conditions in New Zealand on the New Zealand Met Service Web site.
Queenstown: Annual Weather Averages. January is the hottest month in Queenstown with an average temperature of 16°C (61°F) and the coldest is June at 4°C (39°F) . The wettest month is October with an average of 90mm of rain.