Even though Pluto is a dwarf planet, and no longer officially a planet, it'll still be a fascinating target for study. And that's why NASA has sent their New Horizons spacecraft off to visit it. New Horizons will reach Pluto in July 2015, and it will capture the first closeup images of the (dwarf) planet's surface.
A planet is a celestial body that (a) is in orbit around the Sun, (b) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, and (c) has cleared the neighbourhood [sic] around its orbit [ref].
Any object that doesn’t meet this 3rd criteria is considered a dwarf planet. And so, Pluto is a dwarf planet. There are still many objects with similar size and mass to Pluto jostling around in its orbit. And until Pluto crashes into many of them and gains mass, it will remain a dwarf planet. Eris suffers from the same problem.
Pluto is not a planet because it doesn't meet the necessary requirements needed to be a planet. The requirements are: It needs to be in orbit around the sun --Yes, Pluto does orbit the sun. It needs to have enough gravity to pull itself into a spherical shape -- Pluto has sufficient gravity to have become spherical.
Since its discovery in 1930, Pluto has been a bit of a puzzle: 1  It's smaller than any other planet -- even smaller than Earth 's moon. 2  It's dense and rocky, like the terrestrial planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars). 3  However, its nearest neighbors are the gaseous Jovian planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune).
Even though Pluto is a dwarf planet, and no longer officially a planet, it’ll still be a fascinating target for study. And that’s why NASA has sent their New Horizons spacecraft off to visit it. New Horizons will reach Pluto in July 2015, and capture the first close-up images of the (dwarf) planet’s surface.
(2) A dwarf planet is a celestial body that (a) is in orbit around the sun, (b) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape [2], (c) has not cleared the neighborhood around its orbit, and (d) is not a satellite.
Pluto, a celestial snowball with a surface of methane ice 3.6 billion miles from the sun, might be making its way back into the solar system fraternity. First discovered and classified as planet in 1930, Pluto was relegated to dwarf-planet status by the International Astronomical Union in 2006.
Since its discovery in 1930, Pluto has been a bit of a puzzle: 1  It's smaller than any other planet -- even smaller than Earth 's moon. 2  It's dense and rocky, like the terrestrial planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars). 3  Pluto's orbit is erratic. 4  One of its moons, Charon, is about half Pluto's size.