Eukaryotic Organisms. Eukaryota is one of the three domains of life contianing organisms whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within complex membranes call endomembranes. These organisms are called Eukaryotes and are either singular-or multiple-celled. The defining membrane-bound structure that differentiates eukaryotic cells from prokaryotic cells is the cell nucleus, within which the genetic material and many other cell bodies are contained.
There is truly immense diversity within the Domain Eukarya. It includes the kingdoms Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. Protista includes the protists--unicellular, colonial, or multicellular, with a wide variety of reproductive cycles and energy and carbon derivation.
Prokaryotic organisms are usually unicellular, but a few form simple colonies. Unicellular means an organism is composed of a single cell. Colonial means an organism is composed of attached cells, but the cells are mostly similar in structure and function.
The Domain Eukarya arose from the first prokaryotic organisms more than 1.7 billion years ago. It includes all of the organisms with eukaryotic cells--that is, those with membranous organelles (including mitochondria and chloroplasts).
1 Like colonial organisms, multicellular organisms are composed of many cells. 2  However, in a multicellular organism there is considerable specialization and division of labor among the cells.
The third domain is Eukaryota, whose members are called eukaryotes. Many eukaryotes are unicellular, and many are multicellular. Whether consisting of one cell or many, all Eukaryotic cells are complex, having a nucleus and other complex organelles.
The three domains are the Archaea, the Bacteria, and the Eukarya. 4. Prokaryotic organisms belong either to the domain Archaea or the domain Bacteria; organisms with eukaryotic cells belong to the domain Eukarya. 5. Microorganism transfer genes to other microorganisms through horizontal gene transfer-the transfer of DNA to an organism that is not its offspring.