The system is composed of the throttle actuator, the throttle valve, throttle position (TP) sensors A and B, the throttle actuator control module, the throttle actuator control module relay, the accelerator pedal position (APP) sensor, and the engine control module (ECM)/powertrain control module (PCM).
Engine Control Module The engine control module (ECM) is the control center for the throttle actuator control (TAC) system. The ECM determines the drivers intent and then calculates the appropriate throttle response. The ECM achieves throttle positioning by providing a pulse width modulated voltage to the TAC motor.
Electronic Throttle Module Replacement Tutorial Part 1 of 2. Welcome to XeMODeX. Today we're featuring a step-by-step tutorial about replacing your Electronic Throttle Module ETM for Volvo XeMODeX Electronic Throttle Module for Volvo S60, S80, C70, S70, V70, XC70 Turbo.
Disconnect the Throttle Valve Control Module J338 electrical harness connector-arrow - . Checking resistance Using a multimeter, check the Throttle Position (TP) Actuator V60 at the Throttle Valve Control Module J338 terminals 1 to 2 for resistance.
Patents. An electronic throttle control apparatus includes a powertrain control module having at least two microprocessors. The powertrain control module is coupled to controls an internal combustion engine and an electronic throttle. A main microprocessor is located in the powertrain control module that includes control logic operative to monitor and control the internal combustion engine and derive the desired throttle position.
The throttle actuator control module determines the throttle valve target position according to the signal received and operates the throttle actuator to move the throttle valve to the target position. The actual throttle valve position is determined by TP sensor A installed in the throttle body.
Aircraft Throttle Control Modules (TCM) from Rockwell Collins install in the cockpit’s center pedestal/aisle stand. They enable pilots to modulate engine thrust via electronic signals sent to the engines’ FADEC system.