Before diagnosing migraine, serious intracranial pathology must be ruled out. Treating acute migraine is challenging because of substantial rates of nonresponse to medications and difficulty in predicting individual response to a specific agent or dose. Data comparing different drug classes are relatively scarce. Abortive therapy should be used as early as possible after the onset of symptoms. Medications containing opiates or barbiturates should be avoided for acute migraine. During pregnancy, migraine may be treated with acetaminophen or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (prior to third trimester), or opiates in refractory cases.
Migraine is a neurological disease characterized by recurrent moderate to severe headaches often in association with a number of autonomic nervous system symptoms. The word is derived from the Greek ἡμικρανία (hemikrania), pain on one side of the head, from ἡμι- (hemi-), half, and κρανίον (kranion), skull. 1 Chronic migraine is a complication of migraines, and is a headache that fulfills diagnostic criteria for migraine headache and occurs for a greater time interval. 2  Specifically, greater or equal to 15 days/month for longer than 3 months.
Not all headaches represent migraines, and migraine is not the only condition that can cause severe and debilitating headaches. For example, cluster headaches are very severe headaches that affect one side of the head in a recurrent manner (occurring in a cluster over time). The pain is sometimes described as drilling, and can be worse than migraine pain in some cases. Cluster headaches are less common than migraine. Tension headaches are a more common cause of headache. Thee occur due to contraction of the muscles of the scalp, face, and neck
1 Acute headache: Headache, or cephalgia, is defined as diffuse pain in various parts of the head, with the pain not confined to the area of distribution of a nerve. 1 Acute headache: Introduction. 2  Acute headache: Headache, or cephalgia, is defined as diffuse pain in various parts of the head, with the pain not confined to the area of distribution of a nerve.
10 most extreme places on Earth. An acute migraine is a severe headache that comes on suddenly and often causes nausea, light sensitivity, and fatigue. Migraines may be triggered by one of a number of different factors, including alcohol withdrawal, intense light or sounds, stress, or hormonal imbalances. Once a migraine actually sets in, a person is likely to develop a throbbing, dull headache that may be accompanied by chills, weakness, vomiting, and sweating. Another form of migraine, called an acute confusional episode, is almost exclusively experienced by young children.
1 An acute migraine can usually be overcome in a few hours by avoiding light and sound. Once a migraine actually sets in, a person is likely to develop a throbbing, dull headache that may be accompanied by chills, weakness, vomiting, and sweating. Another form of migraine, called an acute confusional episode, is almost exclusively experienced by young children.