All arteries carry oxygenated blood with the exception of the pulmonary artery from the right side of the heart to the lungs, which does not. Yes. Most arterial blood is oxygenated. There are two exceptions to that rule. One is the pulmonary artery which carries deoxygenated blood. Veins do carry deoxygenated (oxygen-poor) blood into the heart.   Superior and inferior vena cava carry the oxygen-poor blood to the heart; blood enters into the righ … t atrium.   Contraction of the atria forces the blood into the ventricles.
The pulmonary arteries-some of the only arteries in the body that carry deoxygenated blood. Pulmonary veins carry freshly oxygenated blood back to the heart. 
Arteries form part of the circulatory system. They carry blood that is oxygenated after it has been pumped from the heart. Arteries also aid the heart in pumping blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the tissues, except for pulmonary arteries, which carry blood to the lungs for oxygenation. (Usually veins carry deoxygenated blood to the heart but the pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood.) There are two unique arteries. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system. The circulatory system is vital for sustaining life.
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. Veins are less muscular than arteries and are often closer to the skin. The pulmonary veins carry relatively oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. The superior and inferior venae cavae carry relatively deoxygenated blood from the upper and lower systemic circulations, respectively. The portal venous system is a series of veins or venules that directly connect two capillary beds.
Key Concept The pulmonary arteries are the only arteries in the body that carry deoxygenated blood. The pulmonary veins are the only veins that carry oxygenated blood. The oxygen saturation of the hemoglobin within the arteries is normally about 95%-I00%. 
The aorta carries oxygenated blood to the body. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood to the lungs and it is the only artery to carry deoxygenated blood. There are two veins associated with the heart. The vena cava, or great vein, carries deoxygenated blood back to the heart from the body. 
Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. The effective arterial blood volume is that extracellular fluid which fills the arterial system. The circulatory system is vital for sustaining life.
The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body. The pulmonary veins carry relatively oxygenated blood from the lungs to the heart. The superior and inferior venae cavae carry relatively deoxygenated blood from the upper and lower systemic circulations, respectively. The portal venous system is a series of veins or venules that directly connect two capillary beds.
Blood passes from the right ventricle to the lungs via the pulmonary artery (the only artery in the body that contains deoxygenated blood veins In the circulatory system … , a vein is a blood vessel that carries blood back toward the heart (as opposed to artery, a blood vessel carrying blood away from the heart). The majority of veins in the body carry low-oxygen blood from the tissues back to the heart; the exceptions being the pulmonary and umbilical veins which both carry oxygenated blood Specifically, the superior and inferior vena cava carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart.