Anatomy: The male peafowl, the peacock, is about 7 feet long with a full train. The female, the peahen, is about 3 feet long. Both have a fan-shaped crest on the head called the corona. The peacock has a long, brilliantly colored train of feathers that grow from its shimmering green back.
The male is peacock is generally about twice the size of the female peahen, and even larger when the male peacock is displaying his plumage (feathers). When the male peacock does not have his brightly coloured and very elaborate tail feathers on display, they drag behind him. This is known as a tail or a train.
The Peacock or Indian Peafowl. Females are about 86 cm (34 in) long and weigh about 3.4 kg (7.4 lbs), while males average at about 2.12 m (7.3 ft) in full breeding plumage (107 cm/42 in when not) and weigh about 5 kg (11 lbs). the peacock is about 50 or 60 cm tall.
Answer by Susie Dresh. Confidence votes 20.7K. The Peacock or Indian Peafowl. Females are about 86 cm (34 in) long and weigh about 3.4 kg (7.4 lbs), while males average at about 2.12 m (7.3 ft) in full breeding plumage (107 cm/42 in when not) and weigh about 5 kg (11 lbs). the peacock is about 50 or 60 cm tall.
Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues.
Build a large pen. This is necessary if you want to keep your peacock from flying away. It should be at least 8 feet (2.4 m) tall, or taller, to ensure that your peacocks are able to fly and/or fan their tails freely. Chicken wire is fine for both the walls and the roof.
A baby peacock (peachick) is approximately 1 ft. high and 1 ft.  long. A peacock also has 36 feathers and RULES. Yes, PEACOCKS RULE.  THEY ARE AWESOME AND SO INTERESTING!!  …   Peafowl eggs are about three times as large as a chicken's egg, so  when they are newly hatched, they are about 4 inches tall.
Confidence votes 40.4K. A peacock's length from the tip of the train (tail feathers) to the tip of his nose is approximately seven feet, in a fully mature cock. The tail feathers make up about half of that total length. The peahen doesn't have the train, so she is about three feet long.