The moment of inertia is a measure of an object’s resistance to any change in its state of rotation. It is a property of a distribution of mass in space that measures its resistance to rotational acceleration about an axis as well as its tendency to preserve this rotation. gram centimeter². A gram square centimeter (g·cm²) is a derived unit of moment of inertia in the CGS system. It is equal to the moment of inertia of a single particle having the mass of one gram rotating at one centimeter distance from the rotation axis.
A kilogram square centimeter (kg·mm²) is a decimal fraction or the derived unit of moment of inertia in the SI system kilogram square meter. One kilogram square centimeter is equal to the moment of inertia of a single particle having the mass of one kilogram rotating at one millimeter distance from the rotation axis. gram centimeter². A gram square centimeter (g·cm²) is a derived unit of moment of inertia in the CGS system. It is equal to the moment of inertia of a single particle having the mass of one gram rotating at one cent
A kilogram square centimeter (kg·cm²) is a decimal fraction or the derived unit of moment of inertia in the SI system kilogram square meter. One kilogram square centimeter is equal to the moment of inertia of a single particle having the mass of one kilogram rotating at one centimeter distance from the rotation axis. gram centimeter². A gram square centimeter (g·cm²) is a derived unit of moment of inertia in the CGS system. It is equal to the moment of inertia of a single particle having the mass of one 
Moment of inertia can be measured using a simple pendulum, because it is the resistance to the rotation caused by gravity. Mathematically, the moment of inertia of the pendulum is the ratio of the torque due to gravity about the pivot of a pendulum to its angular acceleration about that pivot point. The moment of inertia of the body about its centre of mass, , is then calculated using the parallel axis theorem to be. where is the mass of the body and is the distance from the pivot point to the centre of mass.
Inertia should not be confused with either momentum (measured in units of mass x velocity, or kg.m/s) or moment of inertia (which is resistance to angular acceleration and is measured in units of kg.m2). First of all it is ambiguous. For clarity it should be written (m/s)/s or m/s2. But this is not inertia anyway. Nor is it velocity (m/s). It is acceleration, i.e. change in unit velocity per unit time. Inertia is the resistance to acceleration and is measured quite simply in units of mass (kg in the SI system of units).
The moment of inertia, otherwise known as the angular mass or rotational inertia, of a rigid body determines the torque needed for a desired angular acceleration about a rotational axis. The moment of inertia of the body about its centre of mass, , is then calculated using the parallel axis theorem to be. where is the mass of the body and is the distance from the pivot point to the centre of mass.
Inertia is a measure of how difficult it is to change the velocity of an object by applying a force, and is usually expressed in terms of mass. The greater the inertia of an object (i.e. , the more mass an object has), the more difficult it is to change its velocity. Rotational inertia, or the moment-of-inertia (MOI) is a measure of how difficult it is to change the rotational velocity of an object which is rotating about a pivot point. The larger the moment-of-inertia, the more difficult it is to change the rotational speed of the object.
Inertia is scientific principle and not a property of matter. It is not quantifiable in the way you are suggesting, and it has no units. Inertia is the principle that a body will continue to move in the same way (that is, at the same velocity) unless acted on by a force. The mass of a body determines the momentum P of the body at given velocity v; it is a proportionality factor in the formula: P = mv The factor m is referred to as inertial mass.
Best Answer: Inertia is measured in any unit of mass. Not just kilograms. Such as megagrams, grams, milligrams, etc. On my physics final I put Newtons, so I should know by now. Hope that helps. The mass of a body determines the momentum P of the body at given velocity v; it is a proportionality factor in the formula: P = mv The factor m is referred to as inertial mass.