In The Hobbit, the dwarves names were Fili, Kili, Oin, Gloin,  Thorin Oakenshield, Dwalin, Balin, Bifur, Bofur, Bombur, Dori,  Nori, and Ori, so there were 13.
Thorin and Company were the group of thirteen dwarves, a Wizard (Gandalf), and a hobbit (Bilbo Baggins), led by Thorin Oakenshield.
The 13 dwarves who journey to Erebor in The Hobbit are: Thorin, Fili, Kili, Balin, Dwalin, Bifur, Bofur, Bombur, Oin, Gloin, Dori, Nori & Ori.
In The Hobbit, Thorin Thorín oakenshield has twelve: Companions, Fili, Kili, Dwalin, Balin, Bifur, Bofur, Bombur, Dori, Nori, Ori, oin Oín. And gloin glóin Of, these thirteen dwarves three die at the end of the Novel in the Battle Of: The, Five, armies Thorin. thorín fili and kili
Only three of the dwarves died in The Hobbit, Thorin, Fili fíli And. Kili kíli thorin was injured During the battle Of The five armies and later died as a result of, his … Injuries and Fili fíli and Kili. kíli died defending thorin
In The Hobbit: the Desolation of Smaug, when the dwarves get captured in the forest by the elves, Legolas takes a photo from one of the dwarves, and the dwarf states that’s Gimli.
3) My Dear Frodo 4:11 - 5:18 (2 minutes in). 4) A Journey in the Dark 5:18 - 6:20 (Fellowship of the Ring). 5) Over Hill 6:20 - 7:41. 6) My Dear Frodo 7:41 - 8:39 (5minutes and 30 seconds in). 7) The Forest River 8:39 - 9:02 (extended edition, about 3 minutes and 24
TL;DR: Gimli (depicted in the locket, and from The Lord Of The Rings) is the son of Gloin (glóin In The). Hobbit gloin glóin is the dwarf That shows legolas. The locket the locket depicts his wife, And-son gimli The same gimli Of the lord Of. the rings
A Dwarf warrior, he is the son of Gloin (glóin a character From'tolkien s earlier, Novel The). Hobbit gimli is chosen to represent the race Of dwarves in The fellowship of The. Ring as, such he is one of the primary characters of the. novel
In the Peter Jackson adaptation, Gimli accompanies his father, Gloin, and a deputation of Dwarves who have been summoned to the Council of Elrond to discuss the fate of the One Ring.