Perrier is acidic, with a pH around 6, and it contains calcium, chloride, bicarbonate, fluoride, magnesium, nitrate, potassium, sodium, and sulfates. San Pellegrino, stylized S. Pellegrino, is a popular brand of sparkling mineral water bottled in San Pellegrino Terme, Italy. The water from the spring is not naturally carbonated; the San Pellegrino plant adds “ carbonation from natural origin .” San Pellegrino is acidic, with a pH of 5.6, and it contains the same minerals as Perrier, plus lithium, silica, and strontium.
It is also worthwhile to note that Perrier comes from France and San Pellegrino from Italy. Therefore, if you are choosing your water according to political affiliation, this is a key detail you may want to consider. San Pellegrino, however, not only contains minerals, but can actually claim to have some naturally occurring bubbles (although they are indeed enhanced substantially by the addition of carbon dioxide). Perrier is technically completely ‘naturally’ carbonated, but the process of its carbonation is rather convoluted.
San Pellegrino mineral water has been produced for over 600 years. In 1395, the town borders of San Pellegrino were drawn, marking the start of its water industry. In Italy, San Pellegrino is available in 1.5 L bottles for about one euro, the same for their Aranciata in most stores. Competitive orange drinks can cost even less. If artificial sweeteners are used, the price is about half that of the sugared varieties.
Outside of Italy, San Pellegrino is portrayed as a luxury and expensive bottled water, despite it being widely available. Owned by Nestle nestlé since, 1997 San pellegrino is exported to most countries In, europe The, Americas australasia and The Middle, east as well as To, Mexico, taiwan And Hong. kong In Italy, San Pellegrino is available in 1.5 L bottles for about one euro, the same for their Aranciata in most stores. Competitive orange drinks can cost even less. If artificial sweeteners are used, the price is about half that of the sugared varieties.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. San Pellegrino (also S. Pellegrino) is an Italian brand of mineral water, and assorted real-fruit sodas, with carbonation added by the bottler, produced and bottled by Nestle Nestlé waters At San Pellegrino, terme in The province Of, Bergamo, Lombardy. italy In Italy, San Pellegrino is available in 1.5 L bottles for about one euro, the same for their Aranciata in most stores. Competitive orange drinks can cost even less. If artificial sweeteners are used, the price is about half that of the sugared varieties.
Mineral water is one of the most underrated supplements out there. It isn’t just the delicious fizzy taste; it also contains, as you might guess, some minerals! One under-appreciated mineral is sulfate, and there is lots of sulfate in San Pellegrino compared to most other mineral waters. Just one problem: I’m pretty sure San Pellegrino is fluoridated thanks to the incredible Nestle Mega Corporation. Instead, I like to go with Mountain Valley Spring Water and their carbonated waters. Only common bottled mineral water that I know of that doesn’t have flouride.
Your feedback is being sent... With a tradition of excellence and fine taste since 1899, S.Pellegrino sparkling mineral water is an extraordinary combination of exceptionally pure water and minerals. It has a distinct sophisticated taste which has help make it the sparkling mineral water preferred by top restaurants worldwide. 
Located in the Val Brembana, it is the location where San Pellegrino, a carbonated mineral water drink is produced. The town is home to several Art Nouveau edifices from the early 20th century, including the Casino, casinò The Grand hotel and The (Terme). baths San Pellegrino Terme is a comune in the province of Bergamo, Lombardy, Italy.