Fallopia japonica, commonly known as Japanese knotweed, is a large, herbaceous perennial plant of the family Polygonaceae, native to East Asia in Japan, China and Korea. In North America and Europe the species is very successful and has been classified as an invasive species in several countries. Many large supplement sources of resveratrol now use Japanese knotweed and use its scientific name in the supplement labels. The plant is useful because of its year-round growth and robustness in different climates.
There is a real lack of information and understanding of what Japanese knotweed is and the actual damage it can cause. Without actual advice and guidance, surveyors have been unsure of how to assess the risk of Japanese knotweed, which can result in inconsistent reporting of the plant in mortgage valuations. Many large supplement sources of resveratrol now use Japanese knotweed and use its scientific name in the supplement labels. The plant is useful because of its year-round growth and robustness in different climates.
Recently, Japanese knotweed (Fallopia japonica, syn. Polygonum japonicum, Polygonum cuspidatum, Reynoutria japonica) and others have been used to exploit their high concentrations of trans-resveratrol in the plants' stalks. Fallopia as described by de Loureiro is a synonym of Grewia. Fallopia is also the name of a character on the TV show Saul of the Mole Men.
Fallopia is a genus of about 12–15 species of flowering plants in the buckwheat family, often included in a wider treatment of the related genus Polygonum in the past. The genus is native to temperate and subtropical regions of the Northern Hemisphere. Fallopia as described by de Loureiro is a synonym of Grewia. Fallopia is also the name of a character on the TV show Saul of the Mole Men.
1 Fallopia japonica Japanese knotweed (syn. Polygonum cuspidatum, Polygonum japonicum, Polygonum reynoutria, Reynoutria japonica). Fallopia as described by de Loureiro is a synonym of Grewia. Fallopia is also the name of a character on the TV show Saul of the Mole Men.
Polygonum cuspidatum, known by the common name Japanese knotweed, is a tall, stout herbaceous perennial (Seiger, 2005) and is a member of the Polygonaceae (Seiger, 2005). In China it is referred to as Hu Zhanz. Japanese knotweed is also known under the scientific names Fallopia japonica and Reynoutria japonica. The leaves are alternately arranged and are oval with pointed tips and a truncate base. They measure approximately 15 cm long by 7.5-10 cm wide (Remaley, 2005). Piceid, also known polydatin, is a glucoside form of resveratrol found in Japanese knotweed. Emodin is an anthraquinone derivative that occurs in extracts of knotweed (Vastano et al., 2000) and other plant species.
Fallopia japonica (Houtt.) Ronse Decr. (Polygonum cuspidatum Siebold & Zucc., Japanese knotweed) is an herbaceous perennial in the Polygonaceae that has invaded a significant portion of North America. 
Botanically take your pick: Japanese Knotweed is known as Fallopia japonica, Polygonum cuspidatum, and Reynoutria japonica. In Europe they prefer Fallopia japonica (named for Gabriello Fallopia, 16th century Italian anatomist who “discovered” fallopian tubes. Japonica means Japan. 