Meanings and history of the name Shepherd: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Shepherd: | Edit. Shepherd Seinfeld, third child of Jerry and Jessica Seinfeld. John Ira Shepherd Hanson (who goes by Shepherd), son of Zac Hanson from the band Hanson. 
Shepherd /shep-herd/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Shepherd is shepherd. Occupational name. Mostly 19th-century use. Pooh illustrator Ernest Shepard. Affiliated boy name: Carden. Shepherd is an unusual given name for males but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#515 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Shepherd for boys
Shepherd: Baby Name of the Day. By appellationmountain 24 Comments. Shepherd Boy (Photo credit: Wikipedia) Editor’s note: Editor’s note: This post was originally published on March 11, 2010 and was substantially revised and republished on March 25, 2013. 
English Meaning: The name Shepherd is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Shepherd is: Shepherd. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Shepherd is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Shepherd is: The Winter's Tale' The reputed father of Perdita is an old shepherd in the play. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 11.
Shepard /shep-ard/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English derivation, and Shepard means shepherd. Shepard is an alternate spelling of Shepherd (Old English): occupational name. Shapard is a conventional last name. Kreatif forms: Separd, Sheparddoah. Shepard is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular surname for all people (#815 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Shepard for boys.
Below is a list of more than 100 male German Shepherd names, including their meanings. Take your time and have fun. If you don’t find a name you like, expand your search to our list of German dog names or to our entire list of more than 4,000 puppy names. Among 1,000s of puppy names, some are ideally suited as male German Shepherd names. This courageous, intelligent, capable breed needs a name befitting its stature. Male Shepherds need a masculine name that describes their personality and, perhaps, their purpose in your own life or family.
Shepherd is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced She-pherd. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1176 in baby name popularity for boys with 157 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Shepherd Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Shepherd has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Shepherd to other names. Variants of the name Shepherd include Shepard. The name Shephard is a form of Shepherd.