In the US, milk is fortified with Vitamin D, and a few other foods are sometimes also vitamin D-fortified (such as some types of cereal and bread). This vitamin occurs naturally in only a few foods, such as fatty fish (salmon, sardines) and egg yolks. 
Good sources of calcium include: 1  milk, cheese and other dairy foods. 2  green leafy vegetables – such as broccoli, cabbage and okra, but not spinach. 3  soya beans. 4  tofu. 5  soya drinks with added calcium. 6  nuts. Good sources of calcium. Good sources of calcium include: 1  milk, cheese and other dairy foods. 2  green leafy vegetables – such as broccoli, cabbage and okra, but not spinach. 3  soya beans. 4  tofu. 5  soya drinks with added calcium. 6  nuts. 7  bread and anything made with fortified flour. 8  fish where you eat the bones – such as sardines and pilchards.
It helps your muscles work and your heartbeat. *This includes sources of calcium from food and supplements. Milk and milk alternatives are excellent sources of calcium. If you do not include milk or milk alternatives in your diet, there are other foods which contain calcium as well. This table will show you which foods are a source of calcium. 
Summary of Food Sources. Currently, an estimated 72% of calcium in an average American's diet comes from dairy foods. Vegetables (7%), grains (5%), legumes (4%), and meat/fish (3%) also contribute to total calcium intake. Particularly helpful in this regard are green leafy vegetables like spinach, collard greens, mustard greens, turnip greens, and kale. Many fish and shellfish—including scallops and sardines—also provide concentrated amounts of calcium. Finally, a very helpful non-dairy food for boosting your calcium intake is tofu.
Food. Milk, yogurt, and cheese are rich natural sources of calcium and are the major food contributors of this nutrient to people in the United States [ 1 ]. Nondairy sources include vegetables, such as Chinese cabbage, kale, and broccoli. Spinach provides calcium, but its bioavailability is poor. Calcium citrate is also useful for people with achlorhydria, inflammatory bowel disease, or absorption disorders [ 1 ]. Other calcium forms in supplements or fortified foods include gluconate, lactate, and phosphate. Calcium citrate malate is a well-absorbed form of calcium found in some fortified juices [ 5 ].
Foods that provide vitamin D include: 1  Fatty fish, like tuna, mackerel, and salmon. 2  Foods fortified with vitamin D, like some dairy products, orange juice, soy milk, and cereals. 3  Beef liver. 4  Cheese. 5  Egg yolks. Other foods that are high in calcium include: 1  Spinach. 2  Kale. 3  Okra. 4  Collards. 5  Soybeans. 6  White beans. 7  Some fish, like sardines, salmon, perch, and rainbow trout.
Foods high in calcium include milk, yogurt and beverages with calcium added such as soy beverages, orange juice, and rice beverages. Cheese is also a good source of calcium. For other foods, check the label. Calcium has been added if you see 'fortified' or 'enriched' on the label. Very few foods have vitamin D in them. Foods with a higher amount of vitamin D include fish, liver, and egg yolk. Excellent sources of vitamin D are foods and beverages that have vitamin D added to them.
However, other excellent sources of calcium exist. Sources of well-absorbed calcium for vegans include calcium-fortified soy milk and juice, calcium-set tofu, soybeans and soynuts, bok choy, broccoli, collards, Chinese cabbage, kale, mustard greens, and okra. Our Vegan Food Guide indicates good sources of calcium from several food groups. By choosing the suggested number of servings of calcium-rich foods daily, vegans should meet calcium needs. Table 2 shows several menus that contain more than 1000 mg of calcium.