In the International System of Quantities, the decibel is defined as a unit of measurement for quantities of type level or level difference, which are defined as the logarithm of the ratio of power-or field-type quantities. One decibel is one tenth of one bel, named in honor of Alexander Graham Bell; however, the bel is seldom used. The definition of the decibel is based on the measurement of power in telephony of the early 20th century in the Bell System in the United States.
decibel. a unit of relative power intensity equal to one tenth of a bel, used for electric or acoustic power measurements; one decibel equals approximately the smallest difference in acoustic power the human ear can detect and an increase of 10 decibels approximately doubles the loudness of a sound. decibel (dB). 1. Unit used for the measurement of the intensity of a sound. 2. Light intensities are often presented on a logarithmic (rather than linear) scale. This is done, in particular, to abbreviate large numbers.
The decibel (dB) is used to measure sound level, but it is also widely used in electronics, signals and communication. The dB is a logarithmic way of dscribing a ratio. The ratio may be power, sound pressure, voltage or intensity or several other things. (Note also the factor 10 in the definition, which puts the 'deci' in decibel). Sound pressure, sound level and dB. Sound is usually measured with microphones and they respond (approximately) proportionally to the sound pressure, p. Now the power in a sound wave, all else equal, goes as the square of the pressure.
A decibel scale is a logarithmic scale where 10 decibels are equal to 1 log unit; 20 decibels, to 2 log units, etc. In perimetry, decibels are used to indicate the attenuation of brightness of the stimulus. Thus, a 20 dB stimulus is equal to one-tenth the brightness of a 10 dB stimulus. decibel (dB). 1. Unit used for the measurement of the intensity of a sound. 2. Light intensities are often presented on a logarithmic (rather than linear) scale. This is done, in particular, to abbreviate large numbers.
Decibels and Logarithms. The decibel scale is a reflection of the logarithmic response of the human ear to changes in sound intensity : The logarithm to the base 10 used in this expression is just the power of 10 of the quantity in brackets according to the basic definition of the logarithm: 
dBA = 20 log 10 (A 2 / A 1). dBP) is positive. Part of the Electronics glossary: In electronics and communications, the decibel (abbreviated as dB, and also as db and DB) is a logarithmic expression of the ratio between two signal power, voltage, or current levels. In acoustics, the decibel is used as an absolute indicator of sound power per unit area. 
noun. 1 A unit used to measure the intensity of a sound or the power level of an electrical signal by comparing it with a given level on a logarithmic scale. Example sentences. 1  Because the range of sound pressures that can be heard is so large, a logarithmic scale of decibels is used to measure sound intensity. 
The number of decibels is ten times the logarithm to base 10 of the ratio of two power quantities, or of the ratio of the squares of two field amplitude quantities. One decibel is one tenth of one bel, named in honor of Alexander Graham Bell; however, the bel is seldom used. The definition of the decibel is based on the measurement of power in telephony of the early 20th century in the Bell System in the United States.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a decibel is a degree of loudness, or is a unit used to measure how powerful or loud a sound or signal is using a logarithmic formula. When you turn your iPod up as loud as it can possibly go, this is an example of when you listen to your music at the highest decibel. Noun. (plural decibels). 1  A common measure of sound intensity that is one tenth of a bel on the logarithmic intensity scale. 2  It is defined as dB = 10 * log 10 (P 1 /P 2), where P 1 and P 2 are the relative powers of the sound.