The Komodo dragon is a vulnerable species and is on the IUCN Red List. There are approximately 4,000 to 5,000 living Komodo dragons in the wild. Their populations are restricted to the islands of Gili Motang (100), Gili Dasami (100), Rinca (1,300), Komodo (1,700), and Flores (perhaps 2,000). The Komodo dragon's diet is wide-ranging, and includes invertebrates, other reptiles (including smaller Komodo dragons), birds, bird eggs, small mammals, monkeys, wild boar, goats, deer, horses, and water buffalo.
In 2006, Flora and Sungai, two female Komodo dragons housed at the Chester and London Zoos, respectively, were the first discovered cases of virgin birth in the world’s largest lizard. They are examples of a process called parthenogenesis, the scientific term for single-parent reproduction. There is, however, a unique advantage to the female Komodo’s self-sufficiency. As a denizen of a chain of desert islands in Indonesia, a female dragon might very easily be swept away from her island to another island where no other dragons live. Yet she still can reproduce parthenogenetically and keep the species going.
The Komodo dragon is the largest living lizard. The largest verified specimen reached a length of 10.3 feet (3.13 m) and weighed 366 pounds (166 kg). This may have included a substantial amount of undigested food. More typical weights for the largest wild dragons are about 154 pounds (70 kg). In 1992, Komodo dragons hatched for the first time outside of Indonesia at the National Zoo. Four clutches have hatched and the resulting 55 offspring may be seen in more than 30 zoos around the world. The Zoo's Komodo dragon can be seen in the outdoor enclosure behind the Reptile Discovery Center.
The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis) is a species of lizard that lives in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rincah, Flores, Gili Motang, and Gili Dasami. It is the largest living lizard. They grow to an average length of 2–3 meters (approximately 6.5–10 ft) and weigh around 70kg (154 pounds). Komodo dragon bites can be very dangerous, and they sometimes attack people. Western scientists first saw Komodo dragons in 1910. Komodo National Park was made to help protect Komodo dragons. The Komodo dragon has other names. It can also be called the Komodo monitor or the Komodo Island monitor by some scientists, but this is not very common.
The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis), also known as the Komodo monitor, is a large species of lizard found in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, Gili Motang, and Padar. The Komodo dragon's diet is wide-ranging, and includes invertebrates, other reptiles (including smaller Komodo dragons), birds, bird eggs, small mammals, monkeys, wild boar, goats, deer, horses, and water buffalo.
With the ability to reproduce without male mates, Komodo females could potentially found an entirely new colony on their own. Theoretically, a female Komodo dragon in the wild could swim to a new island and then lay a fertile clutch of eggs, Buley said. The downside is that all hatchlings resulting from this type of parthenogenesis are males. Parthenogenesis has never been documented in Komodo dragons before now, so this is absolutely a world first, said co-researcher Kevin Buley of Chester Zoo.
Komodo dragons are the largest living species of lizard and can grow larger than 10 feet long and weigh more than 200 pounds. To get an idea of how large these little guys can grow up to be, they can be compared to the zoo's two adult Komodos: Gaia, a 15-year-old female and her brother Ivan. On August 8, 2010 the first of 22 Komodo dragons hatched at the L.A. Zoo. Over the course of the next 11 days, 21 additional Komodos hatched. Lima, the Zoo’s female Komodo dragon, laid 23 eggs back in January so hatching 22 was a huge success!.
Size & characteristics. The average size of a male Komodo dragon is 8 to 9 feet and about 200 lbs., according to the Smithsonian National Zoological Park, but they can reach a whopping 10 feet (3 meters) in length. Females grow to 6 feet (1.8 m)
Split and merge into it. Answer by Mark Baria. Confidence votes 59. In Chinese mythology, a female dragon is a Phoenix or FengHuang in Chinese. There does not seem to be a term in popular use to describe a dragon of either sex based on its gender. I'm not exactly sure, but I've seen a few words around. Female dragon, she-dragon, dragoness..........................I'm not sure why they made these words, because they're kinda simaliar to cats.