Click on a place to view Vortigern immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Vortigern families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
He knew Vortigern as the British leader who had authorized the first settlement of the Saxon invaders in eastern Britain, and identified him with the 'proud usurper' of Gildas. Bede uses two early versions of Vortigerns name, the earliest one is Vertigernus, which Bede uses in his De Tempore Ratione. Tigern-does not quite have the meaning of 'King', which is usually represented in names with the form 'Rex', as in Ri(othamus) or (Vortime)Rix, though a more loose translation with 'king' may not be totally incorrect. Incorrect would be a translation of 'Vortigern' with 'High King'.
1 The magical tale of Ambrosius Aurelianus and the two dragons found beneath Dinas Emrys. 2  This origin of the later legend of Merlin is clearly a local tale that had attracted the names of Vortigern and Ambrosius to usurp the roles of earlier characters. The inscription on the Pillar of Eliseg, a mid-9th century stone cross in North Wales, gives the Old Welsh spelling of Vortigern: Guarthi[gern] (the inscription is now damaged and the final letters of the name are missing), believed to be the same person as Gildas'  superbus tyrannus , Vortigern.
The name Nant Gwrtheyrn, then, means Vortigern's Hollow.. His grave is said to be in this area by a stream that runs from the hills down to Caernarvon Bay. Nennius lists Cair Guorthigirn as one of his twenty-eight cities of Britain, but as is the norm, there is debate as to where it actually was. When Ambrosius returns from exile in Brittany to reclaim his throne, he reaches Vortigern's stronghold, and burns it to the ground with Vortigern inside. Nennius names the mysterious boy Ambrosius (Dinas Emrys means Fort of Ambrose), while Geoffrey says that Merlin was the boy.
Beyond that, more reminds one of Vortigern: the name of the bishop is Guitelin, a name similar to the Vitalinus mentioned in the ancestry of Vortigern and to the Vitalinus said to have fought with an Ambrosius at the Battle of Guoloph (Battle of Wallop). The inscription on the Pillar of Eliseg, a mid-9th century stone cross in North Wales, gives the Old Welsh spelling of Vortigern: Guarthi[gern] (the inscription is now damaged and the final letters of the name are missing), believed to be the same person as Gildas'  superbus tyrannus , Vortigern.
The name. The name, which has been anglicized as Vortigern, appears in the oldest Welsh records as Guorthigirn and later as Gwrtheyrn. Bede, writing in Latin, uses the very early forms Vertigernus and Uurtigernus; in the later Anglo-Saxon transmission these are rendered as Wyrtgeorn. Tigern-does not quite have the meaning of 'King', which is usually represented in names with the form 'Rex', as in Ri(othamus) or (Vortime)Rix, though a more loose translation with 'king' may not be totally incorrect. Incorrect would be a translation of 'Vortigern' with 'High King'.
Geoffrey of Monmouth 's work Historia Regum Britanniae (History of the Kings of Britain, ca. 1138) was the first to give Hengist's daughter a name: Rowena, though the spelling varies widely by manuscript. According to Geoffrey, Vortigern usurps the throne of Britain from the rightful king Constans. She was a titular character in William Henry Ireland 's play Vortigern and Rowena (1796). Her name was later borrowed by Sir Walter Scott for the beautiful Saxon heroine in his historical novel Ivanhoe (1819), after which it came into use as an English given name.
[ 3 syll. vor-ti-ger(n) , vo-rtige-rn ] The baby boy name Vortigern is pronounced in English as V OW R-Tih-GahRN †. Vortigern's origin is English. Vortigern is of the meaning the supreme king. Vortigern is not popular as a baby name for boys. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
(Redirected from Vortigen). At this time Vortigern was King of Britain; a man calculated neither for the field nor the council, but wholly given up to the lusts of the flesh, the slave of every vice: a character of insatiable avarice, ungovernable pride, and polluted by his lusts. The inscription on the Pillar of Eliseg, a mid-9th century stone cross in North Wales, gives the Old Welsh spelling of Vortigern: Guarthi[gern] (the inscription is now damaged and the final letters of the name are missing), believed to be the same person as Gildas'  superbus tyrannus , Vortigern.
Gwrtheyrn. This is the form mostly used today. The Irish form of the name is Foirtchern(n), a name that also appears in Scotland. In Brittany the name is Gurthiern, a form related to the Welsh Gwrtheyrn. The literary (Anglo-Saxon) form of the name is Wyrtgeorn. In English, Vorti-had become Uurt-due to sound-substitution of the unfamiliar vowel sequence o-i (in Vortigernus) by the familiar AS. u-i. This became *Wurtigern by the 7th century and finally