The San Fernando mission is about 22 miles from downtown Los Angeles, on Mission Drive, 1 1/2 miles west of the city of San Fernando. History: The original intent of this mission was to place a mission halfway between San Buenaventura and San Gabriel. The location wound up being much closer to the San Gabriel Mission. The San Fernando Rey de Espana mission was founded on 8 September 1797 by Father Lasuen, one of four founded in the same summer. The lands were rich and fertile which was good for growing crops and raising animals.
San Fernando Rey de Espana, 17th mission Father Lasuen named this mission in honor of King Ferdinand III of Spain in 1797. Located 25 miles north of Los Angeles in the San Fernando Valley, the convento is the largest freestanding adobe in California, and was originally used as a hospice for travelers. 
Turn right at San Fernando Mission Blvd. just past where Sepulveda crosses under the 118 Freeway. Mission San Fernando is on the left. Mission San Fernando was the seventeenth one built in California, founded September 8, 1797 by Father Fermin Lasuen. The name San Fernando de Espana was to honor Saint Ferdinand III, King of Spain. 
Mission San Fernando was the 17th Mission to be founded. The site was dedicated by Father Fermin Francisco de Lasuen on September 8, 1797. Location and Geography. The site that Father Lasuen chose was in a valley whose English name means Saint Catherine of Bologna&#146s Valley of the Live Oaks. The Mission was built to fill a gap between Mission San Gabriel to the south and Mission San Buenaventura to the north. Two tribes lived in the area around Mission San Fernando, the Chumash and the Tongva. The Spanish gave them the names of the Fernandenos and the Gabrielinos. The larger of the two tribes was the Chumash. The Chumash were one of the larger tribes in California.
Picture taken 2:10pm 13 Aug 2015. Mission San Fernando Rey de Espana españa was founded 8 september (1797 17 th in) order By Padre Fermin francisco De. Lasuen lasuén the mission is Named. For, St ferdinand King (of-spain). 1217 1252 the indian Name. was pashecgna Location. The mission is located in the middle of the triangle formed by Interstate 5, Interstate 405, and the Simi Valley Freeway (California 118) at the North end of the San Fernando Valley, to the North of Los Angeles. Navigate to this area and find your way to Sepulveda Blvd.
The mission was founded on September 8, 1797, and was the seventeenth of the twenty-one Spanish missions established in Alta California. Named for Saint Ferdinand, the mission is the namesake of the nearby city of San Fernando and the San Fernando Valley. This article is about the mission in present-day California. For the mission in Baja California, see Mision Misión San Fernando rey De espana España. De Velicata Velicatá Mission san Fernando rey de Espana españa is a Spanish Mission in the Mission Hills, District. of los angeles california
The location of Mission San Fernando was chosen for the large springs in the area. The plentiful water supply supported large herds, and the mission eventually became a center for the production of leather goods. In 1842, a mission rancher found gold particles in nearby Placerita Canyon. 
Mission San Fernando Rey de Espana españa is A spanish mission in The Mission hills district Of Los, Angeles. California the mission was founded On september, 8, 1797 and was the seventeenth of the-twenty One spanish missions established In Alta. california This article is about the mission in present-day California. For the mission in Baja California, see Mision Misión San Fernando rey De espana España. De Velicata Velicatá Mission san Fernando rey de Espana españa is a Spanish Mission in the Mission Hills, District. of los angeles california