Percent saturation is the measured dissolved oxygen level divided by the greatest amount of oxygen that the water can hold under various temperature and atmospheric pressure conditions multiplied by 100. Left: This graph shows the maximum amount of oxygen that can be dissolved in water at different temperatures. Photo: Courtesy of Dr. Ben Stout. One measure of dissolved oxygen in water is parts per million (ppm), which is the number of oxygen molecules (O 2) per million total molecules in a sample. Calculating the percent saturation is another way to analyze dissolved oxygen levels.
DO concentrations can be reported as milligrams per liter, parts per million, or as percent air saturation. 1 milligram per liter is equal to 1 part per million. 100% air saturation refers to the amount of dissolved oxygen that would be in water if it were completely saturated with air.
The Winkler Method is a technique used to measure dissolved oxygen in freshwater systems. Dissolved oxygen is used as an indicator of the health of a water body, where higher dissolved oxygen concentrations are correlated with high productivity and little pollution. 
In aquatic environments, oxygen saturation is a ratio of the concentration of dissolved oxygen (O 2) in the water to the maximum amount of oxygen that will dissolve in the water at that temperature and pressure under stable equilibrium. Oxygen saturation ((O 2) sats) is a measure the percentage of hemoglobin binding sites in the bloodstream occupied by oxygen. Fish, invertebrates, plants, and aerobic bacteria all require oxygen for respiration.
Dissolved oxygen is measured in milligrams per liter (mg/L). One milligram (mg) is 1/1000 (one thousandth) of a gram or 1/1000000 (one millionth) of a kilogram. 1 kilogram of water weighs 1 kilogram and occupies a volume of 1 liter (L). Therefore, expressing dissolved oxygen in mg/L is the same as using units of parts per million (ppm). Twelve parts per million (12 mg/L) is the highest amount of oxygen that can be dissolved in water under standard barometric pressures (sea level); 12 mg/L is known as the saturation point. Zero parts per million (0 mg/L) is the lowest amount of dissolved oxygen in water. Since, the amount of oxygen dissolved in water is small compared to the weight of water, it isn't appropriate to describe the level of dissolved oxygen in terms of a percentage.
Dissolved oxygen can be measured by colorimetric methods, a sensor and meter or by titration. The colorimetric method offers a basic approximation of dissolved oxygen concentrations in a sample. There are two methods designed for high-range and low-range dissolved oxygen concentrations. 
How to measure dissolved oxygen. Dissolved oxygen is measured using a dissolved oxygen meter. The best method is to take the measurement in the field at the same time each day because DO concentrations can vary throughout a 24 hour period. Dissolved oxygen (DO) is a measure of the quantity of free oxygen molecules in water. The concentration of DO is an important indicator of the health of an aquatic ecosystem because oxygen is essential for almost all forms of life. Oxygen is necessary for respiration and for some chemical reactions
Oxygen saturation (symbol SO2) is a relative measure of the amount of oxygen that is dissolved or carried in a given medium. It can be measured with a dissolved oxygen probe such as an oxygen sensor or an optode in liquid media, usually water. The standard unit of oxygen saturation is percent (%). Oxygen saturation can be measured regionally and noninvasively. Oxygen saturation ((O 2) sats) is a measure the percentage of hemoglobin binding sites in the bloodstream occupied by oxygen. Fish, invertebrates, plants, and aerobic bacteria all require oxygen for respiration.
Data from the World Ocean Atlas 2009. Dissolved oxygen (DO) is measured in standard solution units such as millilitres O 2 per liter (ml/L), millimoles O 2 per liter (mmol/L), milligrams O 2 per liter (mg/L) and moles O 2 per cubic meter (mol/m 3). For example, in freshwater under atmospheric pressure at 20°C, O 2 saturation is 9.1 mg/L. 