The American Heart Association tells consumers to have no more than 6 teaspoons or 24 grams (women) or 9 teaspoons or 36 grams (men) of refined sugars each day. Since many are having 4 times that amount, they are also reaping the health consequences of consuming too much sugar in drinks and other foods.
But Fentimans Traditional Curiosity Cola contains 11.3g of sugar per 100ml, the equivalent of nine teaspoons in a 330ml serving and 140 per cent of WHO draft guideline daily levels. Its Cherrytree Cola has 10 teaspoons of sugar.
Chris and Stuart, your Body Transformation Personal Trainers show you how many tea spoons of sugar (4g sugar per tea spoon) is in each of your popular fizzy drinks. In ascending order: Red bull 28g sugar 7 tea spoons. Coca Cola (can) 35g sugar 8.75 tea spoons. No Fear 48g sugar 12
High-caffeine fizzy drinks and energy drinks. Energy drinks and certain fizzy drinks have caffeine that some people drink to stay alert. Some can contain up to 141mg of caffeine – the same as a mug of coffee or two cans of cola. There can be lots of sugar too.
Sugar – the extra ingredient in fizzy drinks. You may be getting far more sugar than you think in your drink. A typical can of sugary fizzy drink has 35g of sugar. Too much sugar can make people overweight and increase the risk of heart disease and type 2 diabetes. Most foods and drinks have some sugar. But many fizzy drinks and other sweet beverages have extra, added sugars, just like sweets and desserts.
Many soft drinks provide up to 10 teaspoons of sugar per can! These drinks not only contribute to tooth decay but add a lot of calories to a child’s diet if they are choosing drinks like cola, fizzy drinks or sports and energy drinks regularly.
Upmarket fizzy drinks such as San Pellegrino and Fentimans contain more sugar than a can of Coca-Cola, research has found. Although cheaper drinks are often blamed for using sugar as a substitute for more expensive ingredients, the new research shows that artisan beverages hold more sugar than cheaper blends.