A secured credit card functions like a normal, or unsecured credit card with one exception—the credit card company requires you to put down a security deposit. Typically $300 to $500, this security deposit assures creditors that you will, indeed, pay back the money you borrow. However, creditors will report secured credit card activity to the credit bureaus because your secured credit card, even with your security deposit, is an extension of credit. When you use it your purchases are not deducted from your
As with any credit card, the best thing for your credit is to charge no more than 10 percent of your credit limit. If you have $250 credit limit, that means you’ll want to spend no more than $25 per month on your card. If you have a $300 credit limit, you’ll want to spend no more than $30 per month. It’s easy. Every secured card asks for a deposit, typically $200 to $300. Meet this deposit and you’ll be approved for the card. This deposit acts as your credit limit and will be returned to you with interest when you cancel the card.
Most secured credit cards require a deposit of at least $200 and may limit deposits to $5,000 or $10,000. You can therefore deposit any amount in that range. 
The biggest difference between a secured and an unsecured credit card is that secured cards require a security deposit from the cardholder, which functions as cash collateral against you defaulting on your payments. 
1. A secured card requires a cash collateral deposit that becomes the credit line for that account. For example, if you put $500 in the account, you can charge up to $500. Credit Cards » 10 questions before getting a secured credit card. Credit cards are a fact of life. You need one to make a hotel or plane reservation, or to rent a car, even if you plan to pay cash. Responsible use of a credit card builds a good credit rating, too, marking the owner as mortgage-worthy.
A secured credit card uses money you place in a security deposit account as collateral. Your credit line is based on your income, ability to pay and the amount of your cash collateral deposit. For example, if you put $1,000 into the deposit account, your available credit line will be $1,000 if you have sufficient income and can demonstrate your ability to pay. (Note that a secured credit card is not the same thing as a prepaid card. 
The Capital One Secured MasterCard makes it easy for some applicants to access a secured card without a large deposit. There is a minimum $49 deposit, but this can increase based on creditworthiness. The $49 deposit earns you a $200 line of credit. USAA’s secured card comes with a $35 annual fee and you must put a deposit of $250 – $5,000 into a CD in order to open the secured card. This deposit will be your credit limit. The APR can range from 9.9% to 19.90%, so never carry a balance on the card.
Your credit limit will either be the amount of your deposit or some percentage above that amount. More on Secured Credit Cards Secured card offers road to good credit A secured credit card can help build a strong credit history from scratch. Credit Cards » 10 questions before getting a secured credit card. Credit cards are a fact of life. You need one to make a hotel or plane reservation, or to rent a car, even if you plan to pay cash. Responsible use of a credit card builds a good credit rating, too, marking the owner as mortgage-worthy.
1. Analyze your budget. Secured credit cards will require a refundable security deposit to establish your credit line. This can be anywhere from $250 to $5,000 or more, depending on the credit card issuer.
The credit limit on a secured card typically is equal to the amount of your deposit. Deposits generally can range from a few hundred dollars up to $5,000 or more, depending on how large of a credit limit you want. If you are looking for the best secured credit card, look for those with low fees. Fees typically range from about $10 to $30 a year. Your deposit is held in a non-interest bearing FDIC-insured account.