A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is a defect in the septum between the right and left ventricle. The septum is a wall that separates the heart's left and right sides. Septal defects are sometimes called a hole in the heart. 
A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is a birth defect of the heart in which there is a hole in the wall (septum) that separates the two lower chambers (ventricles) of the heart. This wall also is called the ventricular septum. 1 Inlet Ventricular Septal Defect This is a hole in the septum near to where the blood enters the ventricles through the tricuspid and mitral valves. 2  This type of ventricular septal defect also might be part of another heart defect called an atrioventricular septal defect (AVSD).
A ventricular septal defect is an opening in the dividing wall (septum) between the two lower chambers of the heart known as the right and left ventricles. VSD is a congenital (present at birth) heart defect. A ventricular septal defect allows oxygen-rich (red) blood to pass from the left ventricle, through the opening in the septum, and then mix with oxygen-poor (blue) blood in the right ventricle.
Pronounced ey-tree-uhl sep-tl dee-fekt. An atrial septal defect is a birth defect of the heart in which there is a hole in the wall (septum) that divides the upper chambers of the heart (atria). A hole can vary in size and may close on its own or may require surgery. An atrial septal defect is one type of congenital heart defec
Ventricular septal defect is a hole in the wall between the right and left ventricles of the heart. This abnormality usually develops before birth and is found most often in infants. 1  The ventricles are the 2 lower chambers of the heart. 2  The wall between them is called the septum. 1 The ventricles are the 2 lower chambers of the heart. 2  The wall between them is called the septum. 3  A hole in the septum is called a septal defect. 4  If the hole is located between the upper chambers or atria, it is called an atrial
Atrial septal defect (ASD) is a congenital heart defect in which blood flows between the atria (upper chambers) of the heart. Normally, the atria are separated by a dividing wall, the interatrial septum. 
A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is a hole in the part of the septum that separates the ventricles. (The ventricles are the lower chambers of the heart .). A VSD allows oxygen-rich blood to flow from the left ventricle into the right ventricle, instead of flowing into the aorta as it should. 
An atrial septal defect (ASD) is a hole in the wall between the two upper chambers of your heart (atria). The condition is present from birth (congenital). Small atrial septal defects may close on their own during infancy or early childhood. Large and long-standing atrial septal defects can damage your heart and lungs. 
A ventricular septal defect (VSD) is a defect in the ventricular septum, the wall dividing the left and right ventricles of the heart. The ventricular septum consists of an inferior muscular and superior membranous portion and is extensively innervated with conducting cardiomyocytes. VSD is an acyanotic congenital heart defect, aka a Left-to-right shunt, so there are no signs of cyanosis in the early stage. However, uncorrected VSD can increase pulmonary resistance leading to the reversal of the shunt and corresponding cyanosis.