The dosage differs for Clavamox tablets and oral drops. If your dog is prescribed Clavamox tablets, you will have to give him 6.25 mg of medication per pound of body weight. This dose should be given two times a day, orally. If the vet has prescribed oral drops, you will have to administer 1ml for every 10 pounds of body weight, orally. Since it’s a broad spectrum antibiotic, it can be used to treat different bacterial infections like skin infections, respiratory tract infections, ear infections and urinary tract diseases. Although effective, the drug is not ideal for use in all pets.
1 Because of its broad spectrum nature, it is useful against many bacteria infections and is frequently used when bacteria sensitivity is unknown. 2  Often used in: skin and soft tissue infections, upper respiratory infections and bladder infections in dogs and cats and dental infections in dogs. The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid increases its effectiveness against many types of bacteria and is often used in skin and soft tissue infections as well as upper respiratory, bladder and dental infections (dogs). Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is available in both oral drops and four sizes of tablets.
A broad spectrum antibiotic used to treat many infections in dogs and cats. The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid increases its effectiveness against many types of bacteria and is often used in skin and soft tissue infections as well as upper respiratory, bladder and dental infections (dogs). Amoxicillin-clavulanic acid is available in both oral drops and four sizes of tablets.
1 Because of its broad spectrum nature, it is useful against many bacteria infections and is frequently used when bacteria sensitivity is unknown. 2  Often used in: skin and soft tissue infections, upper respiratory infections and bladder infections in dogs and cats and dental infections in dogs. The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid increases its effectiveness against many types of bacteria and is often used in skin and soft tissue infections as well as upper respiratory, bladder and dental infections (dogs).
REASONS FOR PRESCRIBING: 1  Because of its broad spectrum nature, it is useful against many bacteria infections and is frequently used when bacteria sensitivity is unknown. 2  Often used in: skin and soft tissue infections, upper respiratory infections and bladder infections in dogs and cats and dental infections in dogs. The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanic acid increases its effectiveness against many types of bacteria and is often used in skin and soft tissue infections as well as upper respiratory, bladder and dental infections (dogs).
1 Clavamox is a prescription broad spectrum penicillin antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body, and comes in the form of either a tablet or drops. 2  Clavamox can be used to treat many different types of bacterial infections such as respiratory, ear, urinary tract, and skin infections. Directions. 1 
Clavamox (amoxicillin/clavulanate) is an antibiotic used to treat penicillin susceptible infections. Clavamox is the first and only potentiated penicillin approved for use in dogs and cats. Clavamox is a combination broad-spectrum oral antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections in cats and dogs. The antibiotic works against a variety of infections in cats and dogs. Benefits of Clavamox: 1  Treats multiple varieties of bacterial infection. 2  Effective against skin and soft-tissue infections, including skin injuries, abscesses, and cellulitis. 3  Effective for persistent pyodermas (inflammatory lesions containing pus). Keep this product out of reach of children and animals. Do not use or store in or near open flame or heat. Clavamox is intended to treat bacterial infections in cats and dogs. Do not give to other animals. Not for use in humans.
Clavamox for dogs is an antibiotic medication that’s used to treated different types of bacterial infections that develop in dogs. Since it’s a broad spectrum antibiotic, it can be used to treat different bacterial infections like skin infections, respiratory tract infections, ear infections and urinary tract diseases. Although effective, the drug is not ideal for use in all pets.
Amoxicillin and Clavamox ® (also known as amoxicillin-clavulanate or Augmentin ®) are frequently prescribed for home use in cats and dogs. The two medicines are related. Clavamox ® is more potent than amoxicillin. Penicillins are used to treat a wide variety of infections in cats and dogs. These include, among others: abscesses, bladder infections, skin infections, respiratory infections, dental infections, and infected wounds.