1 What it's for: Prevents measles, mumps, and rubella in those 12 months of age and older. 2  Measles is a respiratory disease that causes a skin rash all over the body, and fever, cough and runny nose. 3  Measles can be severe, causing ear infections, pneumonia, seizures, and swelling of the brain.
There are two kinds of rotavirus vaccine, so your child will receive either a two-dose or a three-dose series, depending on what your doctor recommends. All doses should be given by no later than age 8 months and 0 days. Rotavirus is a virus that causes diarrhea, mostly in babies and young children.
When you get sick, your children, grandchildren, and parents are at risk, too. A vaccine-preventable disease that might make you sick for a week or two could prove deadly for your children, grandchildren, or parents if it spreads to them.
MMR is a two-shot series of vaccines usually given during childhood. A child should receive the first shot when he is between 12-15 months, and the second when he's between 4-6 years of age.
Thanks to vaccines, your child's less likely to catch a serious illness like whooping cough, measles, mumps, Hib meningitis, meningococcal disease, pneumococcal disease, hepatitis, or polio. Learn about the immunizations that are recommended for your baby and which shots to expect at your child's checkups.
The measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine is recommended for all children. It protects against three potentially serious illnesses. It is a two-part vaccination, and in most states, you must prove your children have gotten it before they can enter school.
1 This combination vaccine is given as a series in infants and children 6 weeks through 6 years of age, prior to their 7th birthday. 2  Diphtheria can infect the throat, causing a thick covering that can lead to problems with breathing, paralysis, or heart failure.
As their child’s healthcare provider, you remain parents’ most trusted source of information about vaccines. Providers who consider administering MMRV vaccine for the first dose when a child is 12-47 months old should make sure parents or caregivers understand the benefits and risks of both vaccination options.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends a two-dose vaccine schedule for measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines for children, with the first dose at age 12-15 months and the second at age 4-6 years.