About Labrador Retriever Lifespan. When we think about the Labrador retriever lifespan there are of course many factors to consider including the breeding and early health of the dog. But, a generally accepted lifespan for a typical Labrador is 10 - 12 years. Of course there are many exceptions to that rule of thumb with many Labs living to a ripe old age and others, unfortunately, passing away at a younger age. Lifestyle. Of course a major factor in the expected Labrador retriever lifespan is the lifestyle it leads. Or, in other words, the lifestyle its owner allows him to lead! Plenty of exercise and the right nutrition will ensure your dog has the best chance there is of leading a long life.
The average life expectancy of a Black Labrador dog breed is between 10 and 12 years. This will vary depending on the environment the dog lives in and the quality of veterinar … y care. 
Many of the inherited health problems that can impact on the life expectancy of Lab Retrievers are the result of over breeding. So, when acquiring a Labrador puppy, it is important, where possible, to buy from a breeder who is able to check for inherited disorders. Heart disease and diabetes are illnesses associated with the breed, and of course, these illnesses can also reduce the life expectancy of Labrador Retrievers. These ailments can be avoided by providing a good diet and regular exercise.
The Life Expectancy Of Labrador Retrievers. The life expectancy of Labrador Retrievers can be anything between 10 and 14 years. Just as with humans, that figure can vary widely, but a good average for Labradors is 12 or 13. Heart disease and diabetes are illnesses associated with the breed, and of course, these illnesses can also reduce the life expectancy of Labrador Retrievers. These ailments can be avoided by providing a good diet and regular exercise.
An average lifespan for a lab is about 10-12 years. Feeding raw hasn't been proven to prolong a dog's life, but I agree that a high quality, balanced diet and daily exercise and attention help dogs live longer lives. 
The average life expectancy of a Black Labrador dog breed is between 10 and 12 years. This will vary depending on the environment the dog lives in and the quality of veterinar … y care. 
The Labrador Retriever, also known as simply Labrador or Lab, is one of several kinds of retrievers, a type of gun dog. Labradors are athletic, playful, and the most popular breed of dog by registered ownership in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States (since 1991). 
If your question is, How long do dogs live? my answer is, The life expectancy of the average dog is about 12 years, with a typical lifespan range of 8-16 years.. 
About the aging Labrador Retriever. Since the average life span of a Labrador is 10-12 years, you must consider a 7-8 year old Labrador aged and in the later one third of his life. Signs of Aging. The first thing you will see that makes you realize your Labrador is aging is the characteristic graying around the nose, mouth, and eyes. 