Innacurate Returns. If you fail to report all of your income on your return, and if the unreported amount is equal to 25 percent or more of the gross income you did report, the time limit for an audit is extended. In these situations, the IRS has six years from the due date to begin an examination. Fraudulent or Unfiled Returns. If you file a fraudulent tax return, the IRS can initiate an audit at any time, with no limitations. Similarly, if you fail to file your tax return, there is no time limit o
IRS auditors are instructed to close audits within 28 months of the date you filed your tax return or the date it was due (April 15), whichever is later. For example, if you filed your 2009 return on April 15, 2010, the IRS wants the audit completed by August 15, 2012. Legally, the IRS has an additional eight months (until April 14, 2013), but auditors are instructed to complete the audit with at least eight months to spare so the IRS has time to process any appeals.
The first time, it was less than two weeks. The second time it was about 6 weeks. The IRS will do a review/audit on a random basis or if something in a persons returns sets off an alarm. As long as your info is legit, then there is nothing to worry about except the additional waiting time to receive your refund. 
According to the IRS, the agency attempts to audit tax returns as soon as possible after they are filed. Traditionally, most audits take place within two years of filing. For example, if you get an audit notice in 2014, it will most likely be for a tax return submitted in 2012 or 2013. The IRS reserves the right to go back as far as six years and audit a return, particularly if the agency has reason to believe a significant error has taken place
Usually, it takes 4-6 weeks for the IRS to process your income tax return. Longer if filed during March and April. The IRS has 3 years from the due date to audit you. Usually, after about 2 years after filing, you may get an audit letter.
If you haven't filed a return in years, so 2003, they can audit still audit you for 2003, 2002 and 2001 since the statute hasn't run on the 2003 return yet so the 3 years prior would still technically be open for audit. Report Abuse. The IRS does not release this information. The IRS must assess tax within three years of the filing deadline, or when the return is filed, whichever occurs later. There are exceptions for fraud. Some types of errors are caught the same year, such as clerical errors or income placed in the wrong category
If there has been under-reported income then a CP2000 is issued usually 18 months after you filed, then it could be sent to Examination for EIC or other items reported on your tax return that do not match with the wage information reported to IRS, this could take up to 3 years or more. Ms. Angel.. Report Abuse. The IRS does not release this information. The IRS must assess tax within three years of the filing deadline, or when the return is filed, whichever occurs later. There are exceptions for fraud. Some types of errors are caught the same year, such as clerical errors or income placed in the wrong category
Returns Filed Accurately and On Time. If you filed your personal tax return on time, and if your return was accurate, the IRS has three years from the due date to initiate an audit. The due date of a personal return is generally April 15 of the following year, unless that date falls on a weekend or holiday. Fraudulent or Unfiled Returns. If you file a fraudulent tax return, the IRS can initiate an audit at any time, with no limitations. Similarly, if you fail to file your tax return, there is no time limit on an examination.
While it is unwelcome news for most, the truth is that the IRS typically has up to three years to select a return to audit. However, if the agency suspects you of committing fraud to prevent paying owed taxes or you did not file a return, there is no time limit and you could receive an audit notice after three years. According to the IRS, most audit notifications occur within the first two years after filing.