Just search for the term “indigo”, “indigo children”, “indigo adults” and maybe “indigo [your city or country]” and see what comes up. You might also have some success putting up an ad to meet indigos in your area on your local version of craigslist (a website for online classified type ads). Indigos being somehow “more spiritual” than other people is a sensitive topic, which is why I’m rewriting this article to clarify this point. I know that when I first heard about the indigo label, my first reaction was negative.
For the 2012 film, see Indigo Children (film) . Indigo children, according to a pseudoscientific New Age concept, are children who are believed to possess special, unusual, and sometimes supernatural traits or abilities. The idea is based on concepts developed in the 1970s by Nancy Ann Tappe and further developed by Jan Tober and Lee Carroll. The concept of indigo children gained popular interest with the publication of a series of books in the late 1990s and the release of several films in the following decade. The term indigo children originated with parapsychologist and self-described synesthete and psychic Nancy Ann Tappe, who developed the concept in the 1970s.
1: A deep blue or purple color. Commonly indigo is used to describe any dark blue color. Usually it precedes the word colored. 2: Universal term for an indigo child-a child who is believed to have special social powers. Usually these children are nothing more than victims of ADD or ADHD
So sometimes you might get an indigo who doesn’t look like an indigo, or someone who isn’t an indigo who looks like one; but it’s what they have inside that truly defines them. The indigo who doesn’t look like an indigo will, deep down, have that wisdom, that depth, that power you expect from a normal indigo. Indigos being somehow “more spiritual” than other people is a sensitive topic, which is why I’m rewriting this article to clarify this point. I know that when I first heard about the indigo label, my first reaction was negative.
Indigo Children have a lot of indigo blue in their auras. This is the color of the third eye chakra, which is an energy center inside the head located between the two eyebrows. This chakra regulates clairvoyance, or the ability to see energy, visions and spirits. Many of the Indigo Children are clairvoyant. 
Indigo Life Center: About Us. Indigo Life Center is help connect Indigo Adults, Indigo Children, Crystal Children and their families. The world can be an extremely brutal place to Indigos and if not nurtured properly, can have serious negative effects. The term “Indigo” which is to describe the dark purple and blue colors of our Soul Auras. Highlights of violet, green, gold and white are also apparent. Crystal and Rainbow children are also named for their Aura. Typically, it seems, Crystal and Rainbow children are being born to Indigo parents.
Indigo is a deep and bright color close to the color wheel blue (a primary color in the RGB color space), as well as to some variants of ultramarine. The color indigo was named after the indigo dye derived from the plant Indigofera tinctoria and related species. The first known recorded use of indigo as a color name in English was in 1289.
Here is an in-depth article describing what traits to look for in determining if you or someone you know is an indigo child or adult. When talking to people about indigos I often hear that the characteristics are not specific and practically anyone could consider themselves an indigo. Indigos being somehow “more spiritual” than other people is a sensitive topic, which is why I’m rewriting this article to clarify this point. I know that when I first heard about the indigo label, my first reaction was negative.