To unhide a sheet, simply right-click any sheet’s tab and select Unhide. This reveals the Unhide dialog box as shown below. Pick the hidden sheet and click ok. You can also unhide a sheet using the following ribbon command: You can also unhide a sheet using the following keyboard shortcut: 1  Alt+o, h, u.
To unhide a worksheet, you just do the opposite. On the Home tab, click on Format in the Cells group and then under Visibility, select Hide & Unhide, then Unhide Sheet. Or, you can right-click on any visible tab, and select Unhide.
Hide a worksheet. Select the worksheets that you want to hide. How to select worksheets. To select. Do this. A single sheet. Click the sheet tab. If you don't see the tab that you want, click the tab scrolling buttons to display the tab, and then click the tab. Two or more adjacent sheets. Click the tab for the first sheet.
Excel also displays the cell reference in the Name Box, which is a text box that displays in the sheet's formula bar. You can hide cell headings as well as the formula bar, and you can restore these labels to find hidden cell references as needed. Step 1. Launch Excel and click View on the ribbon.
In Excel 2010, you can hide any worksheet in a workbook to remove it from view so that others cannot see the data it contains. You can unhide the worksheet at any time. All formula references to a hidden worksheet are still valid even when a worksheet is hidden. 1.
Display a hidden worksheet. On the Home tab, in the Cells group, click Format. Under Visibility, click Hide & Unhide, and then click Unhide Sheet. In the Unhide sheet box, double-click the name of the hidden sheet that you want to display. Note You can unhide only one worksheet at a time.
Hiding worksheets can be a simple way to protect data in Excel, or just a way reduce the clutter of a some tabs. Here are a couple very easy ways to hide and unhide worksheets and workbooks in Excel 2007 / 2010. Hiding a Worksheet. Select the Worksheet you’d like to hide by clicking on the tab at the bottom.