Realism is an approach to the study and practice of international politics. It emphasizes the role of the nation-state and makes a broad assumption that all nation-states are motivated by national interests, or, at best, national interests disguised as moral concerns. 
Political Realism. Political realism is a theory of political philosophy that attempts to explain, model, and prescribe political relations. It takes as its assumption that power is (or ought to be) the primary end of political action, whether in the domestic or international arena. Political realism in essence reduces to the political-ethical principle that might is right. The theory has a long history, being evident in Thucydides' Pelopennesian War.
realism. n. 1. awareness or acceptance of the physical universe, events, etc, as they are, as opposed to the abstract or ideal. 2. awareness or acceptance of the facts and necessities of life; a practical rather than a moral or dogmatic view of things. 1. realism-the attribute of accepting the facts of life and favoring practicality and literal truth. pragmatism. practicality-concerned with actual use rather than theoretical possibilities.
Realist evaluation is a form of theory-driven evaluation, but is set apart by its explicit philosophical underpinnings. Pawson and Tilley (1997) developed the first realist evaluation approach, although other interpretations have been developed since. The difference between realist and other kinds of programme theory-based evaluation approaches is that a realist programme theory specifies what mechanisms will generate the outcomes and what features of the context will affect whether or not those mechanisms operate.
Realism is a school of thought in international relations theory based on four central propositions, namely Political Groupism, Egoism, International anarchy and Power politics. While Realism as a formal discipline in international relations did not arrive until World War II, its primary assumptions have been expressed in earlier writings: Modern realism began as a serious field of research in the United States during and after World War II.
Machiavellianism is a radical type of political realism that is applied to both domestic and international affairs. It is a doctrine which denies the relevance of morality in politics, and claims that all means (moral and immoral) are justified to achieve certain political ends. Idealism in international relations, like realism, can lay claim to a long tradition. Unsatisfied with the world as they have found it, idealists have always tried to answer the question of “what ought to be” in politics.
In the discipline of international relations there are contending general theories or theoretical perspectives. Realism, also known as political realism, is a view of international politics that stresses its competitive and conflictual side. Idealism in international relations, like realism, can lay claim to a long tradition. Unsatisfied with the world as they have found it, idealists have always tried to answer the question of “what ought to be” in politics.
Scholars use the term Wilsonian to describe a person or group who advocates promoting democracy overseas in the name of idealism. A theory of international relations is a set of ideas that explains how the international system works. Unlike an ideology, a theory of international relations is (at least in principle) backed up with concrete evidence. The two major theories of international relations are realism and liberalism.
Realpolitikal diplomacy first came to be known through the works of Thomas Hobbes and Niccolo Niccolò, machiavelli but it was not Until Hans morgenthau that scholars began to study such theory, methodically With realism emerging as an international-relations based approach in the-inter war years of the 20th. century While Realism as a formal discipline in international relations did not arrive until World War II, its primary assumptions have been expressed in earlier writings: Modern realism began as a serious field of research in the United States during and after World War II.