1 At Walmart.com, for example, tire rotation services cost $2.50 per tire. 2  The rate is the same for tire rotating services with Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS), a new feature installed in newer vehicles that constantly monitors the vehicle’s tire pressure and sends the data to the driver. 1 Overall, be prepared to pay from $10 to $50 for a tire rotation. 2  Tire rotation needs to be done on a periodic basis, typically at least every 3,000 to 7,000 miles or depending on the instructions stated in the owner’s manual. 3  The exact rotation pattern depends on the vehicle as well as the tires.
1 Rotating worn-out tires is of no use since the purpose of tire rotation is to extend the life of tires. 2  If this is the case, the mechanic will not rotate the tires and we will not charge you for the service. 3  Tire rotation is not possible on all vehicles. During the rotation, the front tires are moved straight back and the rear tires are moved diagonally to the front. This will ensure that every tire will see each corner of the car.
Tire Rotation. A good set of passenger tires can cost $500 or more. To get the most out of your investment, visit your Monro service center to have your tires rotated and inspected for FREE every 6,000 miles (or every other oil change). Get your now. Or, according to the schedule in your owner's manual. 
Most warranties cover tire mount, balance and rotation. rotation should not cost much. it is just the action of taking your front tires and putting them on the back to keep tread wear down. This can also be accomplished by you, if the price is too high. If you do have the rotation, have them balanced as well. With winter here, the air in your tire compresses with colder air. Tire rotations can be anywhere from free to $20. You can even do it yourself. It's simple. Sometimes with an oil change, some garages will do it for free. On average, I know that Wal-mart charges a nominal fee. Something like $10. A tire rotation is different than a tire balance or tire alignment.
Best Answer: The cost of an oil change and tire rotation varies a lot by service facility. Some outfits use these services as loss leaders, and they do not charge a whole lot for this. RE: How much should a tire rotation and oil change cost? Hi everyone, as a humanities grad student I&#39;m not exactly mechanically inclined, so I thought I&#39;d post on here to have an idea of what I should reasonably expect to pay without getting ripped off.
Tire Rotation. Rotating your tires periodically is an essential part of tire maintenance. The main purpose of regularly rotating tires is to achieve more uniform wear for all tires on the vehicle. If no rotation period or pattern is to be found in your owner's documentation, rotate your tires at least every 6,000 miles and follow one of the patterns suggested below
Tire Rotation Cost. Usually the average tire rotation cost which includes services such as rotation of tires, wheel balancing and rebalancing, and alignment is not a readily available to obtained online. Most tire shops do not publish their prices and provide information when a car owner calls and makes an appointment for these services. Tire Rotation. Naturally, the treads on your tires wear down with time for many reasons. Besides the wear that normally occurs over thousands of miles, the alignment of your front wheels can cause those in front to wear prematurely.