Use a siphon to empty out any gas that may be in the tank. Spray the inside of the tank out thoroughly with a garden hose. Dump out the water. Place a hand full of nuts and bolts into the gas tank to clean varnish out. Roll the fasteners around in the tank for five to 10 minutes. Move the tank around a few minutes. Let the gas tank sit overnight to clean varnish out. Repeat Step #5 to neutralize and dispose of the muriatic acid. Spray the inside of the tank out thoroughly with a garden hose. Allow it to air dry before you use it again. Otherwise you'll have water mixed in with the gas.
Fill the gas tank with a couple inches of water to clean out varnish. Pour a cup of muriatic acid into the tank. Move the tank around for a few minutes so the solution covers the inside completely. Pour three or four cups of lime into a bucket. Pour a gallon of water into the bucket and stir it with a long stick. Move the tank around a few minutes. Let the gas tank sit overnight to clean varnish out. Repeat Step #5 to neutralize and dispose of the muriatic acid. Spray the inside of the tank out thoroughly with a garden hose. Allow it to air dry before you use it again. Otherwise you'll have water mixed in with the gas.
How can I clean Varnish out of a Gas Tank? Posted by RTR on May 27, 2011 at 20:06:43 from (74.248.177.7): Hey guys. WHat is the best way to clean a dirty old gas tank that has several years of varnish and trash in it from 3 gallons of old gas left in it. I am planning on removing the entire tank from the tractor. I have a steam pressure washer, but was wondering besides washing it; what the best way to get the varnish cleaned out. 
We all have occasionally needed to clean a gas tank that has been sitting for a number of years. I recently acquired an old vintage scooter (Salsbury Model 85) and am going to send the tank and body out for chemical stripping. One way to do this is to put a cupfull or two of old nuts and bolts in the tank, tape it inside of a couple of pillows, and put it through your dryer on 'air fluff.' Not responsible for damages incurred when the SO finds out about this.
Hey guys. WHat is the best way to clean a dirty old gas tank that has several years of varnish and trash in it from 3 gallons of old gas left in it. I am planning on removing the entire tank from the tractor. I have a steam pressure washer, but was wondering besides washing it; what the best way to get the varnish cleaned out. I don't want to get my freshly rebuilt carburetor back and have a dirty gas tank.
Re: Cleaning of PLASTIC gas tank. « Reply #2 on: January 20, 2011, 11:35:17 AM ». Dropping the tank is the only way as far as I know-not that big of a deal-heck even I did it twice-and I'm a barely capable shade tree mechanic at best. Then you have access to everything and can clean it out good.
there are a few steps to cleaning out an old gas tank. First, you need to get the old fuel/varnish out. That requires acetone. Gasoline and E85 will NOT cut varnish. I am planning on removing the entire tank from the tractor. I have a steam pressure washer, but was wondering besides washing it; what the best way to get the varnish cleaned out. I don't want to get my freshly rebuilt carburetor back and have a dirty gas tank.
Posts: 2,474. the no effort way to clean an old gas tank. I have cleaned up a few gas tanks in my time,and am always looking for the best [B][I]GENTLE[I][B] way to do it. the tank in question has sat with gas in it since 1978. The thing must have has gobs of gas in there that had never been taken out. 
Report to Moderator. Hey guys. WHat is the best way to clean a dirty old gas tank that has several years of varnish and trash in it from 3 gallons of old gas left in it. I am planning on removing the entire tank from the tractor. I have a steam pressure washer, but was wondering besides washing it; what the best way to get the varnish cleaned out. I don't want to get my freshly rebuilt carburetor back and have a dirty gas tank.