The shoulder patch of the Los Angeles Police Department Special Weapons And Tactics team (LAPD SWAT). While not the first to use specially trained units, the LAPD was the first to form a specific SWAT team, and originally created the term, Special Weapons And Tactics . First officer fatality [edit]. Randal Randy David Simmons (July 22, 1956 – February 7, 2008) was the first member of the Los Angeles Police Department's SWAT team to be killed in the line of duty in its 40-year history (although an officer died in a training accident in 1998).
DEL BARCO: Former police chief Daryl Gates formed the first SWAT team back in 1966 after LA police found themselves outgunned by snipers during the Watts riots. He put together a ragtag unit of ex-military police officers and had them train with the Marines. He named it SWAT, Special Weapons Attack Team. Los Angeles police invented the Special Weapons and Tactics, or SWAT team. At the moment, the LAPD's high-profile unit faces scrutiny for the shooting death of a 19-month-old girl.
The Ceres Police SWAT team was first formed in 1990. The team was formed to deal with situations beyond the capabilities of the line level patrol officers. 
The first significant deployment of LAPD's SWAT unit was on December 9, 1969, in a four-hour confrontation with members of the Black Panthers. The Panthers eventually surrendered, with three Panthers and three officers being injured. First officer fatality [edit]. Randal Randy David Simmons (July 22, 1956 – February 7, 2008) was the first member of the Los Angeles Police Department's SWAT team to be killed in the line of duty in its 40-year history (although an officer died in a training accident in 1998).
The Los Angeles Police Department Metropolitan Division, also known as Metro, is an elite division within the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). The Metro Division, which also contains LAPD's Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team, contains seven platoons of specially-trained police officers. First officer fatality [edit]. Randal Randy David Simmons (July 22, 1956 – February 7, 2008) was the first member of the Los Angeles Police Department's SWAT team to be killed in the line of duty in its 40-year history (although an officer died in a training accident in 1998).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The first Swat team was developed in response to the 1966 attack, by Charles Whittman, from the clock tower at the University of Texas. The first team was started by L.A.P.D. in 1967. 
The First SWAT Team. On August 11, 1965, as a young police officer with the Los Angeles Police Dept., assigned to what is now the Southwest Division, I was embroiled in the first Watts riot, one of the most lawless and violent incidents in American history. It took two weeks to return order to the city. By Gary Paul Johnston. For the first time since its inception, the SWAT team of the Los Angeles Police Department–the most respected group of its kind in the world–has a brand-new sidearm: the Kimber Custom II.
The Los Angeles Police Department's elite SWAT team was the first of its kind when it formed more than 40 years ago. The idea was to train cops like soldiers and give them combat-style equipment and weapons to deal with any situation. L.A.'s SWAT team was formed in 1967, as a response to the Watts riots, when police were outgunned by snipers. When former LAPD Chief Daryl Gates was still an inspector, he supported the idea of forming a tactical team to combat armed militant groups.
The nation’s first SWAT team was formed in 1964 in Philadelphia in response to a rash of bank robberies, according to tactical-life.com. The 100-man team was established to react quickly and decisively to bank robberies as they were in progress using specially trained officers who had superior firepower. 3. The prestigious SWAT team at the Los Angeles Police Department, was founded primarily by John Nelson, a former Marine and Vietnam War veteran who was a patrol officer at the beginning of his law enforcement career, according to Police Magazine.