adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-pyrophosphate, produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. Examples are the splitting of ATP in muscle contraction and the transport of ions across cell membranes. adenosine triphosphate (ATP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-triphosphate, occurring in all cells, where it stores energy in the form of high-energy phosphate bonds.
(2) An organic compound composed of adenosine (an adenine ring and a ribose sugar) and three phosphate groups, hence, the name. Supplement. ATP is a nucleotide that contains a large amount of chemical energy stored in its high-energy phosphate bonds. It releases energy when it is broken down (hydrolyzed) into ADP (or Adenosine Diphosphate). The energy is used for many metabolic processes.
adenosine diphosphate (ADP) a nucleotide, adenosine 5′-pyrophosphate, produced by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). It is then converted back to ATP by the metabolic processes oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis, and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. 
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
adenosine triphosphate: a nucleotide that is the primary source of energy in all living cells because of its function in donating a phosphate group during biochemical activities; composed of adenosine, ribose, and three phosphate groups and formed by enzymatic reaction from adenosine diphosphate and an orthophosphate. 1. (Biochemistry) adenosine triphosphate; a nucleotide found in the mitochondria of all plant and animal cells. It is the major source of energy for cellular reactions, this energy being released during its conversion to ADP. Formula: C10H16N5O13P3.
Medical Definition of ATP. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP—called also adenosine triphosphate. : a phosphorylated nucleotide C10H16N5O13P3 composed of adenosine and three phosphate groups that supplies energy for many biochemical cellular processes by undergoing enzymatic hydrolysis especially to ADP —called also adenosine triphosphate. See ATP defined for kids.
Best Answer: ATP means adenosine triphosphate. It is literally made up of the nitrogenous base adenine, and 3 phosphates. The bonds holding phosphate together are high in energy-they are often described as a spring that is compressed, just waiting to be released. It is basically the source of energy in the cell. This energy is stored in the bonds between the phosphate groups, with most of the energy in the bond between the second and third phosphate groups. ATP is made in the mitochondria of cells.
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP is adenosine triphosphate. It is a nitrogenous base called adenine with three phophate (PO3-) groups attached to it. It is basically the source of energy in the cell. This energy is stored in the bonds between the phosphate groups, with most of the energy in the bond between the second and third phosphate groups. ATP is made in the mitochondria of cells.