In many cases, foreign social security payments are taxable by the country making the payments. Unless specified otherwise in an income tax treaty, foreign social security pensions are generally taxed as if they were foreign pensions or foreign annuities. In some cases, government pensions/annuities or social security payments may be taxable by the government making the payments. There also may be special rules for lump-sum distributions. You need to look at each treaty carefully. If you live in a foreign country and receive a pension/annuity paid by a U.S. payor, you may claim an exemption from withholding of U.S. Federal Income Tax (FIT) under a tax treaty by completing Form W-8BEN and delivering it to the U.S. payor
So, if you are earning $50,000 in salary and 15,000 in retirement benefits in France, the income reported on your U.S. tax return is $65,000. You might have foreign tax credits to offset the $50,000, but no credits to cover the $15,000. Of course, if you are operating a small business, and your income is less than the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion ($99,200 in 2014), you don’t need to be concerned with a pension, be it foreign or domestic. Now that I’ve buried the lead in the 5 th paragraph, let’s talk about the foreign pension tax trap.
You should instead complete the worksheet FEC Foreign Employer Compensation. This income will appear on Form 1040, Line 7 (if entered in the Foreign Employer's Compensation Amount field) or Form 1040, Line 16 (if entered in the Foreign Pension Received or Taxable Amount of Foreign Pension fields). 1 Click Retirement Plan Income to expand the category, then click Foreign Pension Distributions. 2  Click Add to create a new copy of the form or click Review to review a form already created. 3  The program will proceed with the interview questions for you to enter or review the wage information.
Get the information you need. If you received a foreign pension, you first must determine whether the foreign pension is taxable. TaxACT has no process to determine this; please review the IRS links below to make this determination: Once you determine the amount of foreign pension that is taxable, there are two places you can enter the pension amount. In a few instances (based on treaties) the pension benefits can be entered as Social Security benefits
In some cases, amounts you receive may not be considered pension income, and you may have to report it at a different place on your return. If there is a tax treaty with the country your pension is from, you can claim a deduction on line 256 for the part of your foreign pension income that is tax-free in Canada. If you paid foreign taxes on your pension, you may be able to claim a foreign tax credit when you calculate your federal and provincial or territorial taxes (see line 405). Do not subtract the taxes from your income when you report it. Two common types of foreign pension are:
By Christian Reeves. If you’re working abroad for a foreign company, watch out for the foreign pension tax trap. If you get caught, you might be paying double tax on your retirement income… once when earned by the U.S. and once at distribution in your country of residence. Of course, if you are operating a small business, and your income is less than the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion ($99,200 in 2014), you don’t need to be concerned with a pension, be it foreign or domestic. Now that I’ve buried the lead in the 5 th paragraph, let’s talk about
If you meet certain requirements, you may qualify for the foreign earned income and foreign housing exclusions and the foreign housing deduction. If you are a U.S. citizen or a resident alien of the United States and you live abroad, you are taxed on your worldwide income. However, you may qualify to exclude from income up to an amount of your foreign earnings that is adjusted annually for inflation ($92,900 for 2011, $95,100 for 2012, $97,600 for 2013, $99,200 for 2014 and $100,800 for 2015). In addition, you can exclude or deduct certain foreign housing amounts