The easiest way to calculate your GPA is to use Wolverine Track. You can use the Wolverine Track GPA Calculator to determine your semester GPA, cumulative GPA including current semester grades, and what grades you need to reach a certain GPA. Logging into Wolverine Track: To log into Wolverine Track, first log into UVLink. Click on the Student Tab.
Target GPA Calculator. This program allows you to enter a target GPA for graduation and calculate the GPA you need to maintain until graduation to achieve that target GPA. Please enter your information in the form below. If you don't know your values for items 1 & 2, view your Academic Transcript online. 
Divide the total from step 5 by the result from step 3. This will give you the raw CGPA score. Round your raw CGPA score to the nearest hundredth to calculate your actual CGPA score. For example, 3.477 would be rounded to 3.48. Add together the credit hours for all of the courses from step 2. For example, if you took a total of 15 three-credit-hour courses and 17 four-credit-hour courses, you would multiply 15 by 3 (45 credit hours) and 17 by 4 (68 credit hours).
Calculating GPA. GPA is calculated by dividing the total number of grade points by the total number of semester hours attempted. The number of semester hours attempted includes all courses with grades of A, B, C, D, F and WF unless replaced by a later grade. The cumulative grade point average (CGPA) is used only for determining a student’s academic status and is not necessarily related to the grade point average that governs eligibility for graduation or graduating with honors.
1 To calculate your Term GPA, list all courses completed during a specific term. 2  To calculate your Program GPA, list all of the courses used in your program (you can determine this by printing a Program Evaluation through WebAdvisor). 3  Developmental courses should not be considered when calculating Program GPA. Note: If you make changes to your grades after calculating your GPA, be sure to click the Calculate button again to re-calculate your GPA. 1 
In mathematical terms, the CGPA score is a weighted mean, wherein the influence each grade has on the cumulative score depends on the number of credit hours the course was worth. Additionally, courses audited or taken on a Pass/Fail basis are omitted from the CGPA calculations completely. Add together the credit hours for all of the courses from step 2. For example, if you took a total of 15 three-credit-hour courses and 17 four-credit-hour courses, you would multiply 15 by 3 (45 credit hours) and 17 by 4 (68 credit hours).
GPA Calculator. Your high school grade point average (GPA) is calculated on all a-g courses completed after grade 9. Here is a simple way to calculate your high school GPA: 1  Using the chart below, enter the count of each grade you have earned in a-g courses completed after 9th grade.
This would give you a grand total of 113 credit hours. For each letter grade on your transcript, multiply the grade's numerical point value (from step 1) by that course's credit hours. Add together all of the point-hour products from step 4. Add together the credit hours for all of the courses from step 2. For example, if you took a total of 15 three-credit-hour courses and 17 four-credit-hour courses, you would multiply 15 by 3 (45 credit hours) and 17 by 4 (68 credit hours).
Calculating CGPA. The CGPA upon which academic standards are based is calculated by dividing the total number of grade points earned in residence at UNT by the total number of semester credit hours (SCH) attempted in residence at UNT. Courses with grades of I, NP, P, PR, W or Z are not counted as courses attempted. The cumulative grade point average (CGPA) is used only for determining a student’s academic status and is not necessarily related to the grade point average that governs eligibility for graduation or graduating with honors.