Hardware replacement (handles, knobs, etc.) is going to be the least expensive part of your refacing project. Very basic cabinet handles range between $5 and $15 each at your local hardware store. The price of basic, no frills knobs are less expensive. Refacing a kitchen with wood will cost from 10 percent to 25 percent more than RTF and laminates, and it can be done in oak, maple, cherry, birch, walnut or almost any other wood a customer wants. Wood veneers are the most expensive option and will need to be carefully sealed to protect against moistur
If you have a large kitchen with many cabinets, then the cost of your cabinet refinishing will go up proportionally. However, the cost of refinishing a dozen cabinets is not the same as refinishing one cabinet 12 times! Most pros will charge you less per cabinet, the more of them you do as long as all of the cabinetry is receiving the same finish. So it can make financial sense to do all your refinishing at one time.
For a basic 250 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $2.52 - $3.68 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 
$10.19. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Refinish Cabinets! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Cabinet Refinishing project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Cabinets ranges between $4.38 - $10.19 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Home Depot came in at $28,000.00 for 36 ft of cabinet doors in cherry wood, and a Starin synthetic counter-top. They are running a 20% discount and a $200.00 military discount to take it down to the $20K price. I am getting a 2nd estimate based on your comments here. i just wanted a quote on refacing using laminate cabinets and counter tops. the cost would be $13,350 from home depot. both sears and lowes said thats the cost of a remodel job with new appliances, flooring and top of the line cabinets and granite countertops..
Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost to reface cabinets is $6,699, with most homeowners spending between $4,334 and $9,064. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Refacing a kitchen with wood will cost from 10 percent to 25 percent more than RTF and laminates, and it can be done in oak, maple, cherry, birch, walnut or almost any other wood a customer wants. Wood veneers are the most expensive option and will need to be carefully sealed to protect against moisture
Refinishing vs. Replacing. The average cost of a complete cabinet installation is just over $5,600. That's a big investment for just one part of a kitchen remodel. On the other hand, refinishing falls somewhere in the $400-$900 range depending on location. This is much more manageable to the homeowner on a budget. 
Cabinet Refacing. Cabinet refacing is a cost-effective way to give your kitchen a whole new look by replacing cabinet door and drawer fronts and veneering the exterior of the cabinet boxes. Your kitchen layout stays the same and the cabinets stay in place, so you avoid the inconveniences associated with major renovation and demolition. 
1 Refacing the cabinets in a typical kitchen starts around $1,000-$3,000 for rigid thermofoil (RTF) or plastic laminate and $2,500-$6,000 for real wood veneer (about 1/4-inch think), although costs can rise to $7,000-$9,000 or more for a large project with high-quality wood veneer. i just wanted a quote on refacing using laminate cabinets and counter tops. the cost would be $13,350 from home depot. both sears and lowes said thats the cost of a remodel job with new appliances, flooring and top of the line cabinets and granite countertops..