Tom Joyner Cruise. Prices for the Tom Joyner Cruises vary depending on the type of accommodations. Prices may range from $1855 for an interior stateroom (2 guests, price is per guest) up to $4825 for family suites 4-8 guests (cost is per guest). Prize consists of accommodations on the Tom Joyner Foundation Fantastic Voyage Cruise 2010 (“Cruise”) from May 16, 2010, through May 23, 2010.
This was the very first time I have ever attended the Tom Joyner Fantastic Voyage cruise and while I have never been on a cruise, I could not resist the invite. I took a flight from LA to Miami, then got on the ship in Miami and we went to the Cayman Islands, Montego Bay, Jamaica and Honduras. While we have a GREAT time. The cruise was to help The Tom Joyner Foundation. (Founded in 1998, the Tom Joyner Foundation has raised more than $65 million to help keep students enrolled in black colleges. It has assisted more than 29,000 students and worked with more than 100 HBCUs.
The Tom Joyner Cruise is an annual cruise hosted by radio personality Tom Joyner. Joyner, host of the syndicated The Tom Joyner Morning Show, began his broadcasting career in Montgomery, Alabama. He made his way to Chicago and accepted a position with top-rated 107.5 WGCI. musical entertainment, book clubs, and group work-outs. Prices for the Tom Joyner Cruises vary depending on the type of accommodations. Prices may range from $1,855 for an interior stateroom (2 guests, price is per guest) up to $4,825 for family suites 4-8 guests (cost is per guest). The Tom Joyner Fantastic Voyage Cruise website states that: “The total cost of the stateroom can be obtained by multiplying the stateroom capacity by the cost per person.”. It is important to keep in mind that: “portion of the price includes a tax deductible donation to the Foundation
(i) a trip for two (2) to the 2010 Fantastic Voyage cruise. Prize consists of accommodations on the Tom Joyner Foundation Fantastic Voyage Cruise 2010 (“Cruise”) from May 16, 2010, through May 23, 2010.
Tom Joyner Fantastic Voyage Cruise 2013 Review. Hopefully my review will help others in deciding whether this cruise is for you. Its lengthy, so I'll have to put my review into parts. This was my first time on the Tom Joyner Cruise. I have been listening to Tom Joyner Radio for close to 15 years and consider myself a regular listener.
* UPDATE …. Via RadioFacts, we’ve learned that an inside source on the Tom Joyner/Fantastic Voyage Cruise says Kemp was unable to board the ship during a stop in Montego Bay, Jamaica on Wednesday because he didn’t have his Residency Card. “We have received confirmation that Johnny Kemp has passed away. We do not have any other details. We can confirm he was not on the ship for the Tom Joyner Foundation Fantastic Voyage Cruise.”. Born August 2, 1959, Kemp started singing in Bahamian nightclubs at age 13.
the next tom joyner foundation fantastic voyage® will sail may 20 – may 27, 2007 on royal caribbean's largest most fantastic cruise ship, the freedom of the seas. if you've ever sailed with us before, get ready to be impressed; …. Prize consists of accommodations on the Tom Joyner Foundation Fantastic Voyage Cruise 2010 (“Cruise”) from May 16, 2010, through May 23, 2010.
Traci and I had so much fun on the Tom Joyner Fantastic Voyage Cruise this year! The concerts, the parties, the people, the games, and theme nights were all incredible. We then found the staff holding the Tom Joyner Fantastic Voyage signs and joined the rest of the cruise passengers for the 30-minute ride to the ship. Traci and I carried our own luggage onto the ship instead of leaving it outside the bus for the porters to deliver it to our cabin later in the evening.
Tom Joyner's Fantastic Voyage Cruise 2016 Where: Miami, Ports of call: St Thomas, St. Maarten and Grand Turk. Every year, nationwide radio personality Tom Joyner puts on an entertainment party packed cruise for his listeners called the Fantastic Voyage Cruise.