Jockey being weighed post-race, holding equipment. Jockeys must be light to ride at the weights which are assigned to their mounts. There are horse carrying weight limits, that are set by racing authorities. The Kentucky Derby, for example, has a weight limit of 126 lb (57 kg) including the jockey's equipment. The weight of a jockey usually ranges from 108 to 118 lb (49 to 54 kg). Despite their light weight, they must be able to control a horse that is moving at 40 mph (64 km/h) and weighs 1,200 lb (540 kg). Though there is no height limit for jockeys, they are usually fairly short due to the weight limits. Jockeys typically stand around 4 ft 10 in (1.47 m) to 5 ft 6 in (1.68 m)
Weight Limits. Depending on specific race and track guidelines, a jockey must weigh between 108 and 118 pounds without clothing and equipment, which can add a significant number of pounds. Jockeys need a riding license from the state in which they race. The minimum age to be licensed is 16 years old. As a general rule, a jockey is prohibited from owning the horse being raced. The jockey owns all the equipment used in the job, including saddles, bridles, crops, clothing and helmets.
Report Abuse. There is no minimum or maximum height requirement for jockeys. The minimum weight or average weight is 112 (they can weigh less though) and the maximum weight is 117. Source(s): 5 years working with race horses. racehorsegal · 9 years ago.
1 Physical Requirements: a light build and specified weight (Although jockeys have the reputation of being elfishly small, the average jockey can be between 4'10 and 5'7; the weight is far more crucial than the rider's height). 
Best Answer: The lightest jockey I know of now is 98 pounds, most apprentices have to be around 105 so they are able to take advantage of the 10 and 5 pound weight allowance. The least amount a horse will carry in a handicap race or with a 10 pound apprentice is around 100-105. There is no minimum or maximum height requirement for jockeys. The minimum weight or average weight is 112 (they can weigh less though) and the maximum weight is 117. Source(s): 5 years working with race horses. racehorsegal · 9 years ago.
less due to past performances, then the weight now becomes 111 lbs. that particular horse will carry for that particular race. And, if the jockey has a bug (5-10 lbs. less for just starting out as a jockey-apprentice), than that particular horse will now carry 106 lbs., or even 101 lbs. for that particular race. If the weight asignments afforded a racehorse-thoroughbred/quarter horse for a race are 121 lbs for every borse in the race and minus five lbs for age difference, the horse will carry 116 lbs. and if there is an addditional allowance for a horse to carry even 5 lbs.
Height Considerations. There are no height limits for jockeys. However, jockeys tend to be shorter than normal to meet the weight guidelines. The average height for a jockey is between 4 feet 10 inches and 5 feet 6 inches. Jockeys need a riding license from the state in which they race. The minimum age to be licensed is 16 years old. As a general rule, a jockey is prohibited from owning the horse being raced. The jockey owns all the equipment used in the job, including saddles, bridles, crops, clothing and helmets.
“It works on your nervous system. It works on your mind.”. Weight requirements vary from race to race and track to track, but generally horses carry between 112 and 126 pounds, which includes jockey and about 7 pounds worth of gear. Some jockeys lose as much as 10 pounds in a day. “It’s dangerous,” Haire told FNL