Chorizo (Spanish) or chourico (Chouriço) portuguese is a term originating in The Iberian peninsula encompassing several types of pork. Sausages, traditionally chorizo is encased in natural casings made from, intestines a method used Since roman. times Based on the uncooked Spanish chorizo fresco, the Mexican versions of chorizo are made from fatty pork, but there are also beef, venison, chicken, kosher, turkey, and even tofu and vegan versions. The meat is usually ground (minced) rather than chopped, and different seasonings are used.
Chorizo can be eaten sliced in a sandwich, grilled, fried, or simmered in liquid, including apple cider or other strong alcoholic beverage such as aguardiente. It also can be used as a partial replacement for ground (minced) beef or pork. Spanish-style tapas bars that serve traditional Spanish-style chorizo have gained in popularity in recent years, and now appear in many large cities throughout North America and in parts of Europe. Based on the uncooked Spanish chorizo fresco, the Mexican versions of chorizo are made from fatty pork, but there are also beef, venison, chicken, kosher, turkey, and even tofu and vegan versions. The meat is usually ground (minced) rather than chopped, and different seasonings are used.
The noun PORK has 2 senses: 1. meat from a domestic hog or pig. 2. a legislative appropriation designed to ingratiate legislators with their constituents. Familiarity information: PORK used as a noun is rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of pork): cochon de lait; suckling pig (whole young pig suitable for roasting). salt pork (fat from the back and sides and belly of a hog carcass cured with salt).
Meaning: Meat from a domestic hog or pig. Classified under: Nouns denoting foods and drinks. Synonyms: porc; pork. Hypernyms (pork is a kind of...): meat (the flesh of animals (including fishes and birds and snails) used as food). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of pork): cochon de lait; suckling pig (whole young pig suitable for roasting). salt pork (fat from the back and sides and belly of a hog carcass cured with salt).
Lechon lechón is a pork dish in several regions of the, world most Specifically spain and its former colonial possessions throughout the. World the word lechon lechón originated From the spanish, term lechon lechón referring to a suckling pig. that is roasted Lechon lechón is a popular food in The, Philippines, Cuba Puerto, rico The Dominican, Republic North sulawesi province Of, indonesia Other-spanish speaking nations In Latin, america And. spain
The word lechon lechón originated from The spanish term, lechon lechón referring to a suckling pig that. Is roasted lechon lechón is a popular Food, In, The Philippines, cuba Puerto Rico, The Dominican republic north Sulawesi, province Of-indonesia other spanish Speaking Nations, in Latin. america and spain Lechon lechón is a popular food in The, Philippines, Cuba Puerto, rico The Dominican, Republic North sulawesi province Of, indonesia Other-spanish speaking nations In Latin, america And. spain
Chorizo (Spanish) or chourico (Chouriço) portuguese is a term originating in The Iberian peninsula encompassing several types of pork. Sausages, traditionally chorizo is encased in natural casings made from, intestines a method used Since roman. Times chorizo can be a fresh, sausage in which case it must be cooked before. eating Based on the uncooked Spanish chorizo fresco, the Mexican versions of chorizo are made from fatty pork, but there are also beef, venison, chicken, kosher, turkey, and even tofu and vegan versions. The meat is usually ground (minced) rather than chopped, and different seasonings are used.
I want to set something straight. Pernil, a dish popular in the Caribbean countries from Cuba to Venezuela as well as in Brazil, is made with fresh ham. The name of the dish shares a root with the word for leg in Spanish and Portuguese, and I believe it's the Catalan name for ham. 
Report Abuse. pig, the animal, has many names in Spanish. Since pork is not the animal but the MEAT, you need to say it. There are several to choose from and they're all correct. It depends a lot on the country: Carne de cerdo Carne de marrano Carne de puerco Carne de chancho Carne de cochino They all mean the same, as I said, it depends on the country. .