A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
I. Mutations are permanent changes in the DNA. Mutations. A. most mutations are neutral; they either make no change in the expression of any gene, or the changes made do not affect the function of any gene product. 1. A large percentage of DNA is not part of any gene, and has no known function. Changes in these portions of the DNA do not alter any gene and are thus silent.
A chromosome mutation is an unpredictable change that occurs in a chromosome. These changes are most often brought on by problems that occur during meiosis (cell division process of gametes) or by mutagens (chemicals, radiation, etc.). 1 Deletion: This mutation results from the breakage of a chromosome in which the genetic material becomes lost during cell division. 2  The genetic material can break off from anywhere on the
Chromosomal Structure and Chromosomal Mutations. Objectives Define mutations and polymorphisms. Distinguish the three types of DNA mutations: genome, chromosomal, and gene. Diagram a human chromosome and label the centromere, q arm, p arm, and telomere. Illustrate the different types of structural mutations that occur in chromosomes. Show how karyotypes reveal chromosomal abnormalitie
In biology, a mutation is a permanent change of the nucleotide sequence of the genome of an organism, virus, or extrachromosomal DNA or other genetic elements. Mutations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.
Medical Definition of MUTATION. 1. : a relatively permanent change in hereditary material involving either a physical change in chromosome relations or a biochemical change in the codons that make up genes; also: the process of producing a mutation. 2. : an individual, strain, or trait resulting from mutation. a: a relatively permanent change in hereditary material involving either a physical change in chromosome relations or a biochemical change in the codons that make up genes; also: the process of producing a mutation b: an individual, strain, or trait resulting from mutation. — mu·ta·tion·al \-shnəl, -shə-nəl\ adjective.
Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely. Mutations result from damage to DNA which is not repaired, errors in the process of replication, or from the insertion or deletion of segments of DNA by mobile genetic elements. Mutations may or may not produce discernible changes in the observable characteristics (phenotype) of an organism.
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. A mutation involving a long segment of DNA. These mutations can involve deletions, insertions, or inversions of sections of DNA. In some cases, deleted sections may attach to other chromosomes, disrupting both the chromosomes that loses the DNA and the one that gains it. Also referred to as a chromosomal rearrangement. 
Definition. A Mutation occurs when a DNA gene is damaged or changed in such a way as to alter the genetic message carried by that gene. A Mutagen is an agent of substance that can bring about a permanent alteration to the physical composition of a DNA gene such that the genetic message is changed. Once the gene has been damaged or changed the mRNA transcribed from that gene will now carry an altered message.
A chromosome mutation that results in individuals with more than one haploid set of chromosomes in a cell is termed polyploidy. A haploid cell is a cell that contains one complete set of chromosomes. Our sex cells are considered haploid and contain 1 complete set of 23 chromosomes. 1 Deletion: This mutation results from the breakage of a chromosome in which the genetic material becomes lost during cell division. 2  The genetic material can break off from anywhere on the chromosome.