Synthetic Rubber (Thermoset) – This type of membrane roof is made of large, flat pieces of synthetic rubber or similar materials. These pieces are bonded together at the seams to form one continuous membrane. The finished roof’s thickness is usually between 30 and 60 mils(thousandths of an inch) (0.75 mm to 1.50 mm). It is used on flat or nearly flat roofs to prevent leaks and move water off the roof. Membrane roofs are most commonly made from synthetic rubber, thermoplastic (PVC or similar material), or modified bitumen.
Warnings. 1  Never install torch down roofing alone. 2  Have a friend watch you as you use the flame torch and follow you with the roll of modified bitumen so that it is applied to the fiberglass before it can solidify. Tips. 1  The most difficult part of installing torch down roofing is getting the roofing materials onto the roof. 2  Make sure that you apply modified bitumen on top of the metal flashing to create a ridge for your roof. 3  Although it's possible to apply only one layer of torch down roofing, it's best to apply three.
Torchdown. Often referred to as “single-ply” roofing, torchdown roofing is a flame activated bitumen-backed membrane installed over a fiberglass base sheet. The development of this product style has effectively pushed the “hot tar” roof systems out of use in the residential roofing industry. 
Home Roofing Materials. Similar to tar and gravel roofing, the torch down roof consists of layers of fiberglass and polyester with bitumen that are added to the regular tar and gravel layering system. 
Membrane roofing is a type of roofing system for buildings and tanks. It is used on flat or nearly flat roofs to prevent leaks and move water off the roof. Membrane roofs are most commonly made from synthetic rubber, thermoplastic (PVC or similar material), or modified bitumen.
Demonstrating how torch applied modified bitumen felt membranes are installed along with high performance insulation to create a warm roof construction. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
How to Install Torch Down Roofing. Torch down roofing is a type of roofing that consists of levels of modified bitumen--similar to asphalt--heat-adhered to layers of fiberglass. Used only for flat or nearly-flat roofs, torch down roofing is an excellent means of preventing moisture build-up and obviating the need for constant maintenance. Tips. 1  The most difficult part of installing torch down roofing is getting the roofing materials onto the roof. 2  Make sure that you apply modified bitumen on top of the metal flashing to create a ridge for your roof. 3  Although it's possible to apply only one layer of torch down roofing, it's best to apply three.
1 The most difficult part of installing torch down roofing is getting the roofing materials onto the roof. 2  Consult with your roofing provider about the availability of roof-top delivery. 3  Make sure that you apply modified bitumen on top of the metal flashing to create a ridge for your roof. Tips. 1  The most difficult part of installing torch down roofing is getting the roofing materials onto the roof. 2  Make sure that you apply modified bitumen on top of the metal flashing to create a ridge for your roof. 3  Although it's possible to apply only one layer of torch down roofing, it's best to apply three.
Uses. RUBEROID® TORCH SMOOTH MEMBRANE is designed for new roofing and reroofing applications as well as flashings. RUBEROID® TORCH SMOOTH MEMBRANE is also an ideal product for repairs of built-up roofing membranes or other modified bitumen systems. Description. RUBEROID® TORCH SMOOTH membrane is a tough, resilient modified bitumen membrane manufactured to stringent GAF specifications. Its core is a strong, resilient, non-woven polyester mat that is coated with weather resistant, APP polymer modified asphalt. The membrane is available with smooth surface