dd/lg community dd/lg lifestyle dd/lg blog dd/lg relationship daddy kink daddy dom princess pale grunge littles space little space little coloring books cummies caregiver. goddamn do i hate myself coppy copy staff april fool's april fool's joke memes daddy cummies shitpost if this gets any notes i swear to god Tumblr ExecutiveSuite 2016.
Cummins Inc. is an American Fortune 500 corporation that designs, manufactures, and distributes engines, filtration, and power generation products. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, United States, Cummins sells in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributors and approximately 6,000 dealers.
@battyyy and @high-vibbes tagged me to stop and take a hit so here it is babes I’d like to see @godshideouscreation, @cummy-eyelids, @smokemeowttt, @crownvetch, @bongtokingprincess and @shay-gnar &#128150;❤️&#127800;&#128168;&#128168;&#128522; love you babes and thanks for nominating me hehehe. goddamn do i hate myself coppy copy staff april fool's april fool's joke memes daddy cummies shitpost if this gets any notes i swear to god Tumblr ExecutiveSuite 2016.
Cummins. A company that puts turbochargers on diesel-powered trucks. These trucks are most commonly lifted over five inches by their owners (commonly redneck). These owners also tend to call anyone who owns a Honda Civic (or other import car) a goddamn rice burner (with a fart cannon).
In 1973 the company was purchased by Cummins after briefly being owned by the Hanson Trust. Holset now operates facilities in China, India, Brazil, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Headquartered in Columbus, Indiana, United States, Cummins sells in approximately 190 countries and territories through a network of more than 600 company-owned and independent distributors and approximately 6,000 dealers.
What the fuck did you just fucking say about me, you little bitch? I'll have you know I graduated top of my class in the Navy Seals, and I've been involved in numerous secret raids on Al-Quaeda, and I have over 300 confirmed kills. I am trained in gorilla warfare and I'm the top sniper in the entire US armed forces.
Cumulo-means heap or pile in Latin. Cumulus clouds are often described as puffy, cotton-like or fluffy in appearance, and have flat bases. Cumulus clouds, being low-level clouds, are generally less than 1,000 m (3,300 ft) in altitude unless they are the more vertical cumulus congestus form. Cumulus clouds may appear by themselves, in lines, or in cluster