I got in touch with Kimya Dawson of The Moldy Peaches and she started sending me her work, which was beautiful, and that became a lot of the soundtrack. Music from the Motion Picture Juno, released on January 8, 2008, is the soundtrack that accompanies the Academy Award-winning film Juno. The album compiles mostly indie rock songs from the 2000s and was popular enough critically and commercially to see other compilations and expanded re-releases in subsequent years. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Comedy Drama, the term Indie is not a genre, although now there's so many cliches that this film seems to use too often, obscure music, 'smart' dialogue with obscure band, film and TV references and such, but it's just a Comedy Drama. Source(s): Andrew J · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Juno is a 2007 Canadian-American comedy-drama film directed by Jason Reitman and written by Diablo Cody. Ellen Page stars as the title character, an independent-minded teenager confronting an unplanned pregnancy and the subsequent events that put pressures of adult life onto her. Michael Cera, Jennifer Garner, Jason Bateman, Allison Janney, and J. K. Simmons also star. With Mac, Juno meets the couple, Mark and Vanessa Loring (Jason Bateman and Jennifer Garner), in their expensive home and agrees to a closed adoption. Juno visits Mark a few times, with whom she shares tastes in punk rock and horror films.
The smart, sassy Juno is a gorgeous creation, as are all the characters in the film, Juno s fabulous father, (J. K. SIMMONS) and non-judgemental stepmother, (ALISON JANNEY) as well as Paulie, who s beautifully brought to life by MICHAEL CERA). Juno is a 16-year-old high school student, played by ELLEN PAGE who was impressive in David Slade s Hard Candy.
Review of Juno 3 December 2013 | by behrlich39 – See all my reviews Juno has an effect on you. You can tell by the opening title sequence that this movie has a lot of heart. The unique dialogue may come off as annoying to some but I find it to be one of the reasons the characters feel so real and likable. 
About the Film. JUNO stars Ellen Page as the title character, a whip-smart teen confronting an unplanned pregnancy by her classmate Bleeker (Michael Cera). Watch The Trailer. JUNO stars Ellen Page as the title character, a whip-smart teen confronting an unplanned pregnancy by her classmate Bleeker (Michael Cera).
Rated PG-13 for mature thematic material, sexual content and language. Juno stars Ellen Page as the title character, a whip-smart teen confronting an unplanned pregnancy by her classmate Bleeker (Cera). 
Here’s what I learned from watching Juno: Ellen Page is a force to be reckoned with, screenwriter Diablo Cody is enormously talented, and director Jason Reitman proved Thank You for Smoking was not a fluke. That film skewered the tobacco industry, but Reitman takes it a little easier on teen pregnancy in Juno. 
Comment: It would be a hard thing to find a movie about a teenage pregnancy uplifting but that's what this is. Ellen Page is brilliant as Juno and the movie manages to avoid any kind of cliche usually associated with the subject matter. Your baby has fingernails was a line that will live long in my memory. Juno is a 16-year-old high school student, played by ELLEN PAGE who was impressive in David Slade s Hard Candy.