1 Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. Ready In. 1  Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture.
Baste chicken: With a basting brush, thoroughly coat chicken with the barbecue sauce of your choice. You will want to baste the chicken (with sauce and drippings) at 20 to 30 minute intervals throughout the cooking process. Remove the chicken from the grill and let it rest: When finished cooking, remove the chicken from the rotisserie spit and let it set at room temperature for at least 15 minutes. This will give the chicken time to reabsorb its juices. Cut and serve. After the chicken has sufficiently rested.
Set the rotisserie function on the oven as instructed by the user's manual. The display will read rot when it is on the proper setting. See the manufacturer's user manual for the unit you are using to find the suggested cooking time. The user manual for this oven suggests 120 minutes for a 4 to 5 lb. chicken. This convection oven consists of temperature controls, a timer, drip pan, and rotisserie unit. The heat source is at the top of the oven and the chicken rotates below while cooking. Other types of countertop units may have the heat source in the back of the unit.
6. Cook the bird. It takes 45 minutes to an hour for a 4 lb chicken, and 2 to 2.5 hours for a 12 pound turkey – adjust the times up or down based on the weight of your bird. Rotisserie cooking tends to be faster than “regular” grill roasting, so start checking if the bird is done at the early end of time frame.
You are going to have to have a grill which has a rotisserie, a whole chicken, butter or olive oil with seasonings, and about 1-1/2 hours of cook time to get a yummy home-cooked chicken. The initial action is setting up your rotisserie on your grill. You can find rotisseries made for both gas and charcoal grills. The cooking time will depend on the size of the chicken and the heat of the grill. When the chicken is on the rotisserie and cooking, it needs minimal attention and enables the cook to tend to the rest of the meal, the guests, or just set your feet up for any bit and enjoy the cooking smells.
Photo Credit: Regarding BBQ Inc. At a cooking temperature between 300 and 350 degrees F, it takes a chicken about 20 to 30 minutes per pound to cook. A 4 pound chicken should take nearly 2 hours. When the internal temperature of the chicken reaches 175 to 180 degree F, it is time to take it off the heat. Photo Credit: Regarding BBQ Inc. Rotisserie chicken in not only a popular fast food from your local deli counter, it is the great way to cook chicken. Two things not commonly known about rotisserie chicken is that it is best fresh and delicious 10 minutes off the grill, not spending hours under a warming lamp.
1 Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 2  Cook for 10 minutes. 3  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 4  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. Ready In. 1  Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture.