Saddle soap can be used as a protective agent on leather boots. 1  If you've recently worn your boots, you'll need to let them dry before using saddle soap. 2  Do not attempt to dry your boots by setting them next to a heater.
3. Rub the leather with the saddle soap lather. 4. Start on the second boot to allow the first boot to dry slightly. 5. Take a damp cloth and and wipe off
How to Use Saddle Soap. First you’ll want to make sure your boots have had time to dry if you’ve recently worn them. Never sit leather boots next to a heater, this can cause the leather to age prematurely and crack. Instead, use cedar trees or stuff some newspaper in them. 1. Once dry, remove dirt with a damp cloth. This also prepares the leather for the soap. 2. Rub a cloth in the saddle soap to create a lather. If you don’t have enough water, it won’t lather, and you’ll essentially be rubbing soap into your boots.
KIWI ® Saddle Soap. Dirt and dust can break down leather, making it appear worn, dirty and cracked. Specially formulated with a fine soap, KIWI ® Saddle Soap thoroughly cleans, softens and preserves smooth leather. It also contains a quality wax for added protection as it cleans. 1  Benefits. 2  Directions. 3  Where to Use.
Leather aficionados who want to keep their prized boots, bags, shoes, belts, chairs, harnesses and saddles in top condition need saddle soap. Not only does it clean away dirt and grit that dull leather's luster, but it also supplies the oils and waxes essential for long-lasting suppleness and protection.
Anyone who has ever worked with saddle soap can tell you... it s messy, it can stain certain leathers, it often streaks, it doesn t clean well at all, it requires rinsing and it leaves the surface feeling tacky. Whoever first touted saddle soap as a leather cleaner had their facts dreadfully wrong.
Saddle soap is a mild soap that’s been around for ages, originally used to clean and condition horse saddles. Beyond the soap, it contains several important leather care ingredients that make it the perfect choice for protecting our boots. Lanolin, a waxy grease, aids in waterproofing and protecting.
The Saddle Soap is used to clean all smooth leather shoes while restoring the leather's natural oils. The Leather Lotion is formulated to maintain beauty and protect the surface of fine leather goods. Both can be used on the Neumok style.