The Transamerica Pyramid was completed in 1972, and remains San Francisco's tallest building. Transamerica's headquarters are no longer in San Francisco, however the Pyramid is still owned by Aegon and remains an integral part of Transamerica's logo. Aegon acquired Transamerica in 1999. It was the largest purchase ever made by a Dutch company overseas and the second largest in the US insurance industry. Transamerica's history dates back to 1904, when Amadeo Giannini founded the Bank of Italy in San Francisco, California. The bank served the working class residents of the city, including many Italians living in the North Beach neighborhood.
Creating a tomorrow worth looking forward to. Transamerica is one of the world's leading financial services companies, providing insurance, investments and more to 27 million customers.* Yet we see ourselves as far more than just number crunchers or investment managers. We are the Tomorrow Makers. 
The Transamerica Corporation is an American private holding company for various life insurance companies and investment firms doing business primarily in the United States. It was acquired by the Dutch company Aegon in 1999. Over the next 20 years, Transamerica gradually became a diversified conglomerate which included United Artists (a major motion picture studio and record company), Transamerica Airlines, Budget Rent A Car, and a manufacturer of machinery.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Transamerica is a 2005 independent comedy-drama film produced by IFC Films and The Weinstein Company. The film tells the story of Bree, a transgender woman (Felicity Huffman), who goes on a road trip with her long-lost son Toby (Kevin Zegers). The film is marked by an Academy Award –nominated and Golden Globe –winning performance by Huffman, who is also known for her performance in Desperate Housewives
The Transamerica Pyramid is the tallest skyscraper in the San Francisco skyline. The building no longer houses the headquarters of the Transamerica Corporation, who moved their U.S. headquarters to Baltimore, Maryland, but it is still associated with the company and is depicted in the company's logo. 1 The building is on the site that was the temporary home of A.P. Giannini 's Bank of Italy after the 1906 San Francisco earthquake destroyed its office. 2  Giannini founded Transamerica in 1928 as a holding company for his financial empire.
And in July 1999, Transamerica began a new chapter in its history when it became part of one of the world's leading international financial organizations: Aegon N.V. Modern Day. Today, the Transamerica companies are as committed to helping people as we were 100 years ago. Customers now have access to an even wider range of services, from life insurance to retirement plans, to secure their financial futures.
Mr. Average American, it seems, is hard-pressed to know what it is that Transamerica does. In the investment community, as one Wall Street analyst put it, ''There are only a handful of people who can even spell Transamerica.'' Ask someone what Transamerica is-all $4.4 billion of it-and you draw long hard stares. Besides trumpeting its name far and wide, Transamerica is also scouting for ways to spend an enormous accumulation of cash over the next five years. It expects to generate excess cash on the order of $500 million to $1 billion in that five-year stretch, and it doesn't plan to just stuff it in the corporate mattress.
Starting in the 1960's, Transamerica began to diversify until it assumed its current huge form, and came slap up against its lack of image. ''Part of the problem is that the name Transamerica doesn't carry over to all the companies,'' Mr. Harvey said. Hence, the appellations of four of them were modified over the last two years to include the parent's name-Transamerica Financial, for example, and Transamerica Interway. Besides trumpeting its name far and wide, Transamerica is also scouting for ways to spend an enormous accumulation of cash over the next five years. It expects to generate excess cash on the order of $500 million to $1 billion in that five-year stretch, and it doesn't plan to just stuff it in the corporate mattress.
Transamerica. In July 1999, Aegon acquired Transamerica, one of the best-known insurers in the United States, and a company with a rich history of its own. Transamerica's history dates back to 1904, when Amadeo Giannini founded the Bank of Italy in San Francisco, California. The bank served the working class residents of the city, including many Italians living in the North Beach neighborhood.