Average Ada Coordinator Salaries. The average salary for ada coordinator jobs is $42,000. Average ada coordinator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term ada coordinator anywhere in the job listing. This free salary calculator uses salary data from millions of job listings indexed by Simply Hired's job search engine. The ada coordinator salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges.
Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Arkansas are 4% lower than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 18th among states in the country. Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 4
Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in California are 8% higher than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 7th among states in the country. Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 4
Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Colorado are 12% lower than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 37th among states in the country. Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 4
Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Arizona are 15% lower than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 40th among states in the country. Average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Health Unit Coordinator salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 4
Average Senior Coordinator Salaries. The average salary for senior coordinator jobs is $54,000. Average senior coordinator salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term senior coordinator anywhere in the job listing. 