By getting a sufficient intake of the best vitamins for nails, your nails and skin will greatly improve. Also make sure to drink plenty of water and moisturize your hands regularly for maximum nail growth. 2) Zinc: Increased white spots on your nails, along with poor growth and inflammation of the cuticles are also signs you need to add more zinc to your diet. If you don't want to take a zinc supplement, some foods that are high in zinc include dark chocolate, peanuts and turkey.
Calcium-Dairy products provide calcium and help maintain healthy nails. Eating more calcium rich foods as well as lots of protein (lean meat, poultry, fish, and legumes) and iron (green, leafy vegetables like spinach) will help you grow a perfect ten. Vitamin C-Lack of vitamin C is known to cause “hang nails”. Citrus fruits are a great source of vitamin C as well as supplements. Vitamin E-Vitamin E not only has antioxidant properties, but Vitamin E is also good for blood circulation, which improves nail growth.
Save. Fingernails are a good indicator of overall health. Many vitamin or mineral deficiencies will reveal themselves in your fingernails. Fortunately, dry or brittle fingernails are easy to grow back, once you've identified the root of the problem. Below are the most useful vitamins for healthy fingernail growth. 
Much like vitamin D, calcium aids in your bone health, fingernails and hair. Calcium supplements are essential for women, even if you take a once-a-day vitamin. With all calcium, you need to take vitamin D to help it absorb into the body instead of passing through. Though fingernails are made of keratin, they are easily affected by the same vitamins as bones. Since both calcium and vitamin D are essential to bone health, they both help in the strength and growth of nail health.
9. Drink your vitamin D. Vitamin D and calcium are important to keeping your nails strong, and you can drink them in a glass of low-fat milk. They may also help your hair to grow. 1  The government recommends 400 international units of vitamin D and 1,000 milligrams of calcium per day. 
Vitamin A-helps grow healthy nails. Avoid alcohol and caffeine since they can diminish the amount of vitamin A in the body. Vitamin B-A deficiency in Vitamin B can make nails thin and cause breaking. Lack of folic acid, which is a B vitamin, can also cause unhealthy nails. Vitamin C-Lack of vitamin C is known to cause “hang nails”. Citrus fruits are a great source of vitamin C as well as supplements. Vitamin E-Vitamin E not only has antioxidant properties, but Vitamin E is also good for blood circulation, which improves nail growth.
Slow fingernail growth may indicate a vitamin deficiency. Incorporating key vitamins and minerals into your diet may speed up the growth while improving the overall strength and health of your nails and hair. Flaxseed oil, rich in omega-3 fatty acids, also may improve nail growth and overall health. The oil may relieve nail cracking, splitting, drying or brittleness. To relieve fungal problems around your fingernails, you might try green tea, cat's claw, reishi mushrooms, milk thistle or tea tree oil.
Biotin is a well-renowned nutrient for hair and nail health. As such, this vitamin is one of the important vitamins for hair and nail growth. Essential fatty acids such as Omega 3 fish oil is known for their ability to significantly improve hair and nail health, improving hair texture, lustre and condition. 1 Vitamin C is an antioxidant that helps maintain skin & hair health. 2  Vitamin C aids in improving scalp circulation. 3  Vitamin E is an antioxidant that enhances scalp circulation. 4  Vitamin E also improves health and growth of hair.
1. Vitamin D. Vitamin D is vital to many of your body systems. Though fingernails are made of keratin, they are easily affected by the same vitamins as bones. Since both calcium and vitamin D are essential to bone health, they both help in the strength and growth of nail health.
You may have heard that taking prenatal vitamins for hair and nail growth helps you grow strong nails and long, healthy hair. While it is true that pregnant women taking prenatal vitamins usually notice that their nails and hair become healthier, prenatal vitamins are not the cause of this. Vitamin C-Lack of vitamin C is known to cause “hang nails”. Citrus fruits are a great source of vitamin C as well as supplements. Vitamin E-Vitamin E not only has antioxidant properties, but Vitamin E is also good for blood circulation, which improves nail growth.