Naphthenes precipitate less asphaltenes9 than the low-carbon-number paraffins (solvate asphaltenes better than paraffins); xylene is used as a solvent for asphaltene removal, which is discussed later. Both classes of compounds (naphthenes and aromatics) are present in oil. When this bonding chemistry between asphaltene aggregates and the solvating entities in the crude oil is disrupted, the aggregates come out of solution and flocculate to form larger particles. These flocs are the source of the operational problems. Only after flocculation occurs does deposition occur.
The molecular structure of asphaltenes is difficult to determine because the molecules tend to stick together in solution. These materials are extremely complex mixtures containing hundreds or even thousands of individual chemical species. Asphaltenes do not have a specific chemical formula: individual molecules can vary in the number of atoms contained in the structure, and the average chemical formula can depend on the source. Asphaltenes impart high viscosity to crude oils, negatively impacting production, also the variable asphaltene concentration in crude oils within individual reservoirs creates a myriad of production problems.
Whether a change in temperature dissolves asphaltenes in oil or it favors precipitation of asphaltenes from oil; and whether the asphaltenes exist in crude oil in dispersed state forming a colloidal suspension of oil or they exist in dissolved state in oil like a true solution, are still debatable. Mathematical modeling has been used in predicting asphaltenes precipitation and solubility. Some of the models are based on colloidal dispersed state of asphaltenes and some are based on the existence of asphaltenes in liquid state in crude oil.
Industry Practice. In general, refineries use hot solvents like diesel to flush / dissolve asphaltenes from equipment. The solvent / dissolved solids are put into storage, where the asphaltenes precipitate out as a solid that must be addressed later. The flushing process never removes all of the asphalt deposits. The residual asphalt is mechanically removed in the pre-maintenance cleaning. FQE Solvent-H functions to dissolve asphaltene solids and then suspend the asphaltene in solution for long periods of time. The dispersion process prevents the asphalt molecules from re-agglomerating into larger masses that will quickly separate from the liquid as a solid.
While any aromatic solvent can dissolve asphaltenes, they do not suspend asphaltenes, leaving the asphalt to re-precipitate out of the solvent and form a hard layer of asphaltenes in a vessel. FQE Solvent-H is a non-combustible liquid with a flash of over 116°C (240°F). FQE Solvent-H functions to dissolve asphaltene solids and then suspend the asphaltene in solution for long periods of time. The dispersion process prevents the asphalt molecules from re-agglomerating into larger masses that will quickly separate from the liquid as a solid.
Asphaltenes are molecular substances that are found in crude oil, along with resins, aromatic hydrocarbons, and saturates (i.e. saturated hydrocarbons such as alkanes). The word asphaltene was coined by Boussingault in 1837 when he noticed that the distillation residue of some bitumens had asphalt-like properties. Asphaltenes impart high viscosity to crude oils, negatively impacting production, also the variable asphaltene concentration in crude oils within individual reservoirs creates a myriad of production problems.
The tendencies of crudes to deposit asphaltenes do not correlate with the quantity of dissolved asphaltenes present in the reservoir fluid. Some oils with 1% asphaltene or less will form deposits in tubulars, while others with 10% or more asphaltenes will form no deposits. Asphaltenes chemistry varies with field. When this bonding chemistry between asphaltene aggregates and the solvating entities in the crude oil is disrupted, the aggregates come out of solution and flocculate to form larger particles. These flocs are the source of the operational problems. Only after flocculation occurs does deposition occur.
Industry Leading Asphaltene Inhibitor: In line with our other products, ParaForce 2033 is one of, if not the best at what it does. and tackles asphaltene & paraffin wax substances that are found in crude oil, in addition to resins, aromatic hydrocarbons, as well as various saturates. Paraffin Dispersant Treatment Features. Disperses paraffin build up in tanks, downhole, pipes and equipment upon the WAT. It’s solvent properties help dissolve Paraffin and Asphaltene build up. Superior to other inhibitors on the market.
Xylene and toluene are particularly effective solvents with their ability to dissolve paraffins and asphaltenes. Paraffins fall out of waxy crudes when the temperature is lowered and asphaltenes fall out with dropping pressure. According to SPE, terpene solvent mixtures have been used in a range of oil-field applications, including wellbore clean-outs, matrix stimulation, hydraulic fracturing stimulation, sand control, and cementing operations. Terpenes such as limonene reagents are replacements for xylene-and toluene-based solvents.