However, if the results from an automated cell count and/or differential indicate the presence of abnormal white blood cells (WBCs), red blood cells (RBCs), and/or platelets or if there is reason to suspect that abnormal cells are present, then a blood smear will be performed. It may be used to help diagnose and/or monitor numerous conditions that affect blood cell populations. For the test, a drop of blood is spread thinly onto a glass slide that is then treated with a special stain. Traditionally, trained laboratorians have examined blood smears manually using a microscope.
A blood film or peripheral blood smear is a thin layer of blood smeared on a microscope slide and then stained in such a way to allow the various blood cells to be examined microscopically. 
Click image to enlarge. Your doctor may also perform a blood smear, which is a way of looking at your blood cells under the microscope. In a normal blood smear, red blood cells will appear as regular, round cells with a pale center. Variations in the size or shape of these cells may suggest a blood disorder. White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count.
Blood smear is examined to determine the shape or form of cells: A) Erythrocyte sedimentation rate B) Hematocrit C) White blood cell differential D) Coagulation time E) Red blood cell morphology. 
Complete blood count and blood cell exam (peripheral blood smear). The complete blood count (CBC) is a test that measures the different cells in the blood, such as the red blood cells, the white blood cells, and the platelets. This test is often done along with a differential (or diff) which looks at the numbers of the different types of white blood cells. 
The number, size, and shape of red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are recorded. Blood cells with different shapes or sizes can help diagnose many blood diseases, such as leukemia, malaria, or sickle cell disease. Results. A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have.
Click image to enlarge. A complete blood count (CBC) test gives your doctor important information about the types and numbers of cells in your blood, especially the red blood cells and their percentage (hematocrit) or protein content (hemoglobin), white blood cells, and platelets. White blood cells protect the body from infection. They are much fewer in number than red blood cells, accounting for about 1 percent of your blood. The most common type of white blood cell is the neutrophil, which is the immediate response cell and accounts for 55 to 70 percent of the total white blood cell count.
Sample of blood is spun in a test tube so that red cells fall to the bottom and percentage of RBCs is taken. Hematocrit (hemat/o = blood, -crit = count/judge/guage). blood smear is examined to determine the shape or form (morphology) of cells. 
The results of a blood smear typically include a description of the appearance of the red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets as well as any abnormalities that may be seen on the slide. It may be used to help diagnose and/or monitor numerous conditions that affect blood cell populations. For the test, a drop of blood is spread thinly onto a glass slide that is then treated with a special stain. Traditionally, trained laboratorians have examined blood smears manually using a microscope.