Testicular cancer has 3 main number stages. Stage 1 – this is the earliest stage of invasive testicular cancer. The cancer is contained within the testicle and has not spread to nearby lymph nodes or other organs. Stage 1S means that there are raised markers after surgery. Stage 2 – the cancer cells have spread into nearby lymph nodes in your abdomen or pelvis. Your marker level may be normal (S0) or slightly raised (S1)
Testis cancer is usually a painless lump in the testicle, most common in younger men. Treatment is removal of testicle and chemotherapy. If it is spread, a surgery called a RPLND may need to be done. Good Luck! IF it is cancer, and it may not be, it is still possible to have children down the road and it is still possible to get all the hormones (testosterone) you will need. This is true even if they need to remove a testicle.
There are many different kinds of testicular cancer, some spread to other body parts quickly and some do not, it dpends on other factors to like your immune system, diet, amount of sleep you get, etc... It depends on the type of cancer it is, there is no one testicular cancer. Good Luck! IF it is cancer, and it may not be, it is still possible to have children down the road and it is still possible to get all the hormones (testosterone) you will need. This is true even if they need to remove a testicle.
Testicular cancer then may spread to other lymph glands. In advanced cases it can spread to the lungs, liver, brain, bone, kidney, adrenal gland, and spleen. Without treatment, a testicular cancer patient will die on average 2-3 years from time of diagnosis.
A registered nurse once told me that skin cancer and testicular cancer are the best cancers to get if you are to get cancers (because they are treatable). The sooner you talk to a doctor then the easier it is to treat. However, the best thing to do is to see your doctor. More tests are needed. Good Luck! IF it is cancer, and it may not be, it is still possible to have children down the road and it is still possible to get all the hormones (testosterone) you will need. This is true even if they need to remove a testicle.
Progression. Testicular cancer (specifically, germ cell tumors) is an aggressive cancer, doubling in size every 10 to 30 days. If not treated, testicular cancer can spread via the lymphatic pathways. The lymph glands around the aorta and the vena cava at the level of the kidneys are the first to be involved. In advanced cases it can spread to the lungs, liver, brain, bone, kidney, adrenal gland, and spleen. Without treatment, a testicular cancer patient will die on average 2-3 years from time of diagnosis.
When testicular cancer is diagnosed in early stages, meaning the cancer is confined to the testis, the 5-year survival rate is 99%. When the cancer has spread to regional lymph nodes the 5-year survival rate drops to 96%. If the cancer has metastasized (spread) to distant areas the 5-year survival rate is 71%. There are currently more than 195,000 men in the U.S. that are testicular cancer survivors. Testicular cancer accounts for approximately 1% of all cancers in men.
Treatment of stage II testicular cancer depends on whether the cancer is a seminoma or a nonseminoma. Treatment of seminoma may include the following: 1  When the tumor is 5 centimeters or smaller: 2  Surgery to remove the testicle, followed by radiation therapy to lymph nodes in the abdomen and pelvis. 
There are three stages of testicular cancer: 1  Stage I--The cancer is confined to the testicle. 2  Stage II--The cancer has spread to the retroperitoneal lymph nodes, located in the rear of the body below the diaphragm and between the kidneys. 1 Testicular cancer (TC) is the most common type of cancer affecting men between the ages of 15 and 35 years old--but it can strike any male, any time. 2  Testicular cancer is almost always curable if it is found early