1859 – 1927. Svante August Arrhenius, born in Vik, Sweden, is regarded as the cofounder of modern physical chemistry. For his theory of electrolytic dissociation, Arrhenius received the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1903. He also made important contributions to chemical kinetics and many other branches of science. His father, Svante Gustav Arrhenius, was a surveyor and later a supervisor of the University of Uppsala. He also was employed as overseer on the ancient estate of Vik (Wijk), on Lake Malar målar Near. Uppsala in 1855 he Married Carolina Christina: Thunberg Svante august was their second. son
Svante Arrhenius. Svante Arrhenius was a Swedish physicist and physical chemist who formulated the theory of electrolytic dissociation. One of the founding fathers of physical chemistry, Arrhenius also present a revolutionary model of the greenhouse effect. He won the 1903 Nobel Prize for Chemistry for his brilliant contributions. Early Life and Education: Born on February 19, 1859 near Uppsala, Sweden, Svante Arrhenius’s father worked for Uppsala University as a land surveyor.
Early years [edit]. Arrhenius was born on February 19, 1859, at Vik (also spelled Wik or Wijk), near Uppsala, Sweden, the son of Svante Gustav and Carolina Thunberg Arrhenius. The Arrhenius equation, Arrhenius definition of an acid, lunar crater Arrhenius, the mountain of Arrheniusfjellet and the Arrhenius Labs at Stockholm University are named after him. Today, Arrhenius is best known for his study published in 1896, on the greenhouse effect.
Svante August Arrhenius (1859–1927). Svante August Arrhenius was born on February 19, 1859. His father was a land surveyor employed by the University of Uppsala and in charge of its estates at Vik, where Svante was born. The family moved to Uppsala in 1860. From an early age Svante had shown an aptitude for arithmetical calculations, and at school he was greatly interested in mathematics and physics.
Svante August Arrhenius, born in Vik, Sweden, is regarded as the cofounder of modern physical chemistry. For his theory of electrolytic dissociation, Arrhenius received the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1903. He also made important contributions to chemical kinetics and many other branches of science. Svante Arrhenius. Swedish chemist Svante August Arrhenius, recipient of the 1903 Nobel Prize in chemistry, in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered to the advancement of chemistry by his electrolytic theory of dissociation.. COFOUNDER OF MODERN PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY
Svante August Arrhenius was born on February 19, 1859, the son of Svante Gustaf Arrhenius and Carolina Christina Thunberg. His ancestors were farmers; his uncle became Professor of Botany and Rector of the Agricultural High School at Ultuna near Uppsala and later Secretary of The Swedish Academy of Agriculture. 