Keratosis follicularis, also known as Darier disease (DD) or Darier-White disease, is an autosomal dominantly inherited genodermatosis characterized by greasy hyperkeratotic papules in seborrheic regions, nail abnormalities, and mucous membrane changes.
A form of Darier disease known as the linear or segmental form is characterized by blemishes on localized areas of the skin. The blemishes are not as widespread as they are in typical Darier disease.
Darier disease. Darier disease is a rare genetic disorder that is manifested predominantly by skin changes. Like benign familial pemphigus (Hailey-Hailey disease) , Darier disease is classified as a hereditary acantholytic dermatosis. Onset of skin changes is usually in adolescence and the disease is usually chronic.
Darier disease (Darier-White disease, keratosis follicularis). Darier disease is a rare genetic disorder characterized primarily by skin changes. The onset of skin changes usually occurs in adolescence. The severity of the disease may fluctuate over time, but it is chronic and lifelong.
Darier disease (also known as keratosis follicularis or Darier-White disease) is a rare genetically inherited skin disorder that can be characterized by multiple dark scaly patches of itchy skin most commonly affecting the chest, back, ears, forehead, scalp, neck, and groin areas.
The severity of the disease varies over time. A form of Darier disease known as the linear or segmental form is characterized by blemishes on localized areas of the skin. Darier disease is not an infection and the blemishes are not contagious. Symptoms usually first appear in late childhood or early adulthood.
Darier's disease, or keratosis follicularis, is a pruritic, autosomal dominant inherited disease with multiple discrete scaling, crusted, and pruritic papules; it is malodorous and disfiguring and also involves the nails and mucous membranes.
Background. Keratosis follicularis, also known as Darier disease (DD) or Darier-White disease, is an autosomal dominantly inherited genodermatosis characterized by greasy hyperkeratotic papules in seborrheic regions, nail abnormalities, and mucous membrane changes. See the images below.