Lower power. Avian Heterophil. Neutrophils represent up to 70% of all leukocytes in the blood stream (in humans there are approximately 4.4 million neutrophils / millilitre of blood) and are distinguished by their irregular multi-lobed nucleus and indistinct granular appearance. Three types of granules are present in neutrophils: 1  Primary granules (azurophilic) are present in all granulocytes and contain myeloperoxidase which creates anti-bacterial compounds, acid hydrolases and defensins.
Macrophages also stimulate Lymphocytes and other immune cells that react to pathogens as what is called an antigen-presenting cell, also known as a histiocyte. Macrophages are located throughout the bloodstream, and may be fixed or they can be freely motile and capable of amoeboid-like movement. 
Neutrophils are normally found in the bloodstream and are the most abundant type of phagocyte, constituting 50% to 60% of the total circulating white blood cells. This distinguishes them from the mononuclear agranulocytes. In common parlance, the term polymorphonuclear leukocyte often refers specifically to neutrophil granulocytes, the most abundant of the granulocytes; the other types (eosinophils, basophils, and mast cells) have lower numbers.
Phagocytosis. Several types of cells in the immune system engulf microorganisms via phagocytosis. 1  Neutrophils. 2  Neutrophils are abundant in the blood, quickly enter tissues, and phagocytize pathogens in acute inflammation. 3  Macrophages. 4  Macrophages are closely related to monocytes in the blood. 
They ingest bacteria, foreign cells, and damaged and dead cells. (The process of a cell ingesting a microorganism, another cell, or cell fragments is called phagocytosis, and cells that ingest are called phagocytes.). Macrophages secrete substances that attract other white blood cells to the site of the infection. They also help T cells recognize invaders and thus also participate in acquired immunity. 
Neutrophil elastase (EC 3.4.21.37, leukocyte elastase, ELANE, ELA2, elastase 2, neutrophil, elaszym, serine elastase) is a serine proteinase in the same family as chymotrypsin and has broad substrate specificity. Secreted by neutrophils and macrophages during inflammation, it destroys bacteria and host tissue. 
Neutrophils. Neutrophils are a kind of white blood cell. Filled with enzymes, they help phagocytic cells kill and digest microorganisms that they have engulfed. Neutrophils are the body's main immune response to assaults on the body by bacteria and fungi. In addition to killing bacteria by phagocytosis (engulfing), the neutrophils also can release a jumble of fibers in the form of a net called a neutrophil extracellular trap (NET). This kills microbes outside of the cell when the neutrophils release proteins in granules.
The type of cells that have APCs are some lymphocytes, dendritic cells and macrophages. Neutrophils have granulocytes that are phagocytic. Neutrophils and macropages are different because neutrophils do not have APCs. They have a lobed nucleus called polymorphonuclear (PMN's or poly's). They leave the circulatory system to attack pathogens in tissues. Neutrophils are primarily circulating phagocytes recruited from the blood to sites of inflammation during acute events where they phagocytose opsonised organisms and dead cells. Macrophages are derived from blood monocytes and are found resting in the tissues.
In chemotaxis, the neutrophils recognize chemicals that are produced by bacteria and leave the blood vessels and go into the tissues following the trail of chemicals. When they find a bacteria cell, they completely surround it and digest it (basically tear it appart with chemicals). In addition to killing bacteria by phagocytosis (engulfing), the neutrophils also can release a jumble of fibers in the form of a net called a neutrophil extracellular trap (NET). This kills microbes outside of the cell when the neutrophils release proteins in granules.
Lymphocytes. Two main types of lymphocytes are B-cells and T-cells. B-cells are characterized by the presence of immunoglobulins on their surface, and upon stimulation with antigen, they are transformed into plasma cells. Plasma cells are then able to secrete antibodies specific to the antigen. Tissue neutrophils are activated by chemoattractants at the site of injury. Neutrophils ingest bacteria by phagocytosis and then release enzymes (such as lysozyme) to destroy the bacteria. Eosinophils. Eosinophils migrate from the marrow through the blood into the extravascular tissue, and they survive there for weeks.