The most common type of hydroelectric power plant uses a dam on a river to store water in a reservoir. Water released from the reservoir flows through a turbine, spinning it, which in turn activates a generator to produce electricity. But hydroelectric power doesn't necessarily require a large dam. Some hydroelectric power plants just use a small canal to channel the river water through a turbine. Another type of hydroelectric power plant-called a pumped storage plant-can even store power. The power is sent from a power grid into the electric generators. To use the power, the water is released from the upper reservoir back down into the river or lower reservoir. This spins the turbines forward, activating the generators to produce electricity. A small or micro-hydroelectric power system can produce enough electricity for a home, farm, or ranch.
A dam used in a hydroelectric power plant. The Hoover Dam is one of the world's largest hydroelectric power generation stations. A ship going through a lock at the Three Gorges Dam, the world's largest hydroelectric dam. The Aswan Dam in Egypt was successful at providing power and controlling flooding of the Nile River downstream.
Hydropower or water power (from the Greek: ύδρω, water) is power derived from the energy of falling water or fast running water, which may be harnessed for useful purposes. 
Most hydroelectric power comes from the potential energy of dammed water driving a water turbine and generator. The power extracted from the water depends on the volume and on the difference in height between the source and the water's outflow. This height difference is called the head. Micro hydro is a term used for hydroelectric power installations that typically produce up to 100 kW of power. These installations can provide power to an isolated home or small community, or are sometimes connected to electric power networks.
When demand is high, the water is released back into the lower reservoir via a turbine. Pumped storage schemes provide the greatest commercial means of large-scale grid energy storage. Hydro power is considered to be a clean, renewable source of energy. Most hydro electricity comes from dammed water which is released to drive a water turbine and generator. The energy created by the moving water depends on the volume released, and on the difference in height between the water source and the turbine.
Hydroelectric power for the Nation. Although most energy in the United States is produced by fossil-fuel and nuclear power plants, hydroelectricity is still important to the Nation, as about 7 percent of total power is produced by hydroelectric plants. 1 Hydropower is the most important and widely-used renewable source of energy. 2  Hydropower represents 19% of total electricity production. 3  China is the largest producer of hydroelectricity, followed by Canada, Brazil, and the United States (Source: Energy Information Administration).
When flowing water is captured and turned into electricity, it is called hydroelectric power or hydropower. There are several types of hydroelectric facilities; they are all powered by the kinetic energy of flowing water as it moves downstream. How Hydropower Works. Hydropower is using water to power machinery or make electricity. Water constantly moves through a vast global cycle, evaporating from lakes and oceans, forming clouds, precipitating as rain or snow, then flowing back down to the ocean.
Hydroelectric power (HEP), or hydroelectricity, is electrical power that is generated through the energy of flowing water. The Hoover Dam is one of the world's largest hydroelectric power generation stations. A ship going through a lock at the Three Gorges Dam, the world's largest hydroelectric dam. The Aswan Dam in Egypt was successful at providing power and controlling flooding of the Nile River downstream.
Hydroelectric Power. Hydroelectric power is the production of power by using the gravitational force of falling or flowing water. Hydroelectric power is the most widely used form of renewable energy. Hydro power supplied an estimated 715,000 MW in 2005. This was approximately 19% of the world's electricity and accounted for over 63% of the electricity harnessed from renewable sources. Most hydro electricity comes from dammed water which is released to drive a water turbine and generator. The energy created by the moving water depends on the volume released, and on the difference in height between the water source and the turbine.
Hydroelectric power provides almost one-fifth of the world's electricity. China, Canada, Brazil, the United States, and Russia were the five largest producers of hydropower in 2004. One of the world's largest hydro plants is at Three Gorges on China's Yangtze River. Hydropower is electricity generated using the energy of moving water. Rain or melted snow, usually originating in hills and mountains, create streams and rivers that eventually run to the ocean. The energy of that moving water can be substantial, as anyone who has been whitewater rafting knows.