Seborrheic Eczema. Seborrheic dermatitis is a chronic recurrent dermatitis, and it is probably the most common of all rashes in adults. The rash characteristically appears on the scalp, forehead, brows, ears, the folds that extend from the nose to the lips (nasolabial folds), middle of the chest, and middle of the back. It is seen most commonly in individuals who have family members who have asthma and hay fever. This is not to say that eczema is a classical allergic disease. There seems to be general agreement that this condition is inherited because of the complete loss or relative lack of a skin protein.
Eczema is a descriptive term for a chronic skin condition that usually begins in early childhood. It is seen most commonly in individuals who have family members who have asthma and hay fever. This is not to say that eczema is a classical allergic disease. There seems to be general agreement that this condition is inherited because of the complete loss or relative lack of a skin protein.
A. A. Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever. 
Contact Eczema. Contact dermatitis is an eczematous dermatitis that occurs in response to exposure to an irritant or allergenic substance. Irritants cause skin damage by producing direct toxic damage to the skin cells. Contact allergens are not necessarily irritating or toxic but are recognized by the immune system. It is seen most commonly in individuals who have family members who have asthma and hay fever. This is not to say that eczema is a classical allergic disease. There seems to be general agreement that this condition is inherited because of the complete loss or relative lack of a skin protein.
Basically there are two factors responsible for eczematous dermatitis; Allergy or skin sensitivity, and the second factor pertain to exposure to irritants. Eczema is a form of allergic skin reaction found among all races, and in all age group. In fact it is more common among infants and children below the age of 5 years. Among different forms of eczema, atopic eczematous dermatitis is the commonest.
Atopic dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis (eczema) is a condition that makes your skin red and itchy. It's common in children but can occur at any age. Atopic dermatitis is long lasting (chronic) and tends to flare periodically and then subside. It may be accompanied by asthma or hay fever. No cure has been found for atopic dermatitis.
Atopic dermatitis (AD), also known as atopic eczema, is a type of inflammation of the skin (dermatitis). It results in itchy, red, swollen, and cracked skin. Clear fluid may come from the affected areas which often become thickened over time. It typically starts in childhood with changing severity over the years. Many people outgrow the condition. Atopic dermatitis is sometimes called eczema, a term that also refers to a larger group of skin conditions. Other names include infantile eczema, flexural eczema, prurigo Besnier, allergic eczema, and neurodermatitis.
The term may describe eczema, which is also called dermatitis eczema and eczematous dermatitis. An eczema diagnosis often implies atopic dermatitis (which is very common in children and teenagers) but, without proper context, may refer to any kind of dermatitis. The term eczema is also commonly used to describe atopic dermatitis also known as atopic eczema. In some languages, dermatitis and eczema are synonyms, while in other languages dermatitis implies an acute condition and eczema a chronic one.
By definition, eczematous dermatitis is described as non contagious inflammation of the skin characterized by recurrent rash, redness, dryness, itching, edema, and oozing. More severe case may cause blisters, crusts, cracks and bleeding from the eczematous site. Eczema is a form of allergic skin reaction found among all races, and in all age group. In fact it is more common among infants and children below the age of 5 years. Among different forms of eczema, atopic eczematous dermatitis is the commonest.