The MOSFET as a Switch. We saw previously, that the N-channel, Enhancement-mode MOSFET (e-MOSFET) operates using a positive input voltage and has an extremely high input resistance (almost infinite) making it possible to interface with nearly any logic gate or driver capable of producing a positive output. P-channel MOSFET Switch. But in some applications we require the use of P-channel enhancement-mode MOSFET were the load is connected directly to ground. In this instance the MOSFET switch is connected between the load and the positive supply rail (high-side switching) as we do with PNP transistors.
Although the MOSFET is a four-terminal device with source (S), gate (G), drain (D), and body (B) terminals, the body (or substrate) of the MOSFET is often connected to the source terminal, making it a three-terminal device like other field-effect transistors. For enhancement-mode and depletion-mode MOSFET symbols (in columns two and five), the source terminal is the one connected to the triangle. Additionally, in this diagram, the gate is shown as an L shape, whose input leg is closer to S than D, also indicating which is which.
3.2 Reverse Battery Protection with n-channel MOSFET To lower the power losses of the reverse battery protection, a MOSFET can be used. Inserting such a device in the right direction in the positive supply line can protect the load against reversal battery as well. The power losses of a p-channel MOSFET versus the output power and the efficiency are shown in Figure 7. By switching several MOSFETs in parallel the same effect is valid as for n-channel MOSFETs. The power losses of each device are decreasing with a dependency of n 2.
In an n-channel MOSFET, the channel is made of n-type semiconductor, so the charges free to move along the channel are negatively charged (electrons) and in a p-channel device the free charges which move from end-to-end are positively charged (holes). Mosfet Transistor. A MOSFET transistor is a semiconductor device which is widely used to switch the amplification signals in the electronic devices. MOSFET can be expanded metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor that is used to influence the flow of electric charges by influencing the flow of the charges to greater extent
The metal in the name MOSFET is now often a misnomer because the previously metal gate material is now often a layer of polysilicon (polycrystalline silicon). Aluminium had been the gate material until the mid-1970s, when polysilicon became dominant, due to its capability to form self-aligned gates. For enhancement-mode and depletion-mode MOSFET symbols (in columns two and five), the source terminal is the one connected to the triangle. Additionally, in this diagram, the gate is shown as an L shape, whose input leg is closer to S than D, also indicating which is which.
An insulated-gate field-effect transistor or IGFET is a related term almost synonymous with MOSFET. The term may be more inclusive, since many MOSFETs use a gate that is not metal, and a gate insulator that is not oxide. Another synonym is MISFET for metal–insulator–semiconductor FET. For enhancement-mode and depletion-mode MOSFET symbols (in columns two and five), the source terminal is the one connected to the triangle. Additionally, in this diagram, the gate is shown as an L shape, whose input leg is closer to S than D, also indicating which is which.
Even after connecting everything correctly you find the mosfets in your circuit becoming HOT and blowing off within minutes. This is quite a common issue faced by most new as well as experienced hobbyists while designing and optimizing mosfet based circuits especially the ones which involve high frequencies. So what are the main hindrances which cause improper or inefficient switching of the mosfets, let's learn comprehensively how to protect mosfets with the following points. Get Rid of Stray Inductance: The most common and prime bug in the que is the stray inductance that may be hidden within the circuit tracks.
Using a FET The most recent MOSFETs are very low on resistances, and therefore, are ideal for providingreverse current protection with minimal loss. Figure 2 shows a low-side NMOS FET in theground return path and Figure 3 shows a high-side PMOS FET in the power path. + LOAD – VBAT – Figure 2. 
MOSFET requires very careful handling particularly when out of circuit. In circuit a MOSFET is as rugged as any other solid-state device of similar construction and size. MOSFETs have an ultra-thin silicon dioxide layer between the channel and the gate.