Both sexes have pale yellow eyes throughout the year, and compared to other blackbirds, the Rusty Blackbird bill is relatively thin. Male Rusty Blackbird in New York City in April. While the rusty tips of the bird’s feathers are still visible, by migration they are quite worn, leaving the males a glossy black. In March (left), male Rusty Blackbirds retain some of their rusty-tipped feather edges. By May (right), males appear glossy black. Unlike female Rusties, female Brewer’s Blackbirds (below, left) do not have yellow eyes, and their plumage is a drab brown compared to the rust-colored feathers of the female Rusty Blackbird. Brewer’s Blackbirds do not have any brown edging on their feathers, even during the non-breeding season.
Elsewhere in the world, there are smaller black corvids (crow family) like jackdaws, but here in North America, it is pretty easy to distinguish the large black corvids (ravens and crows) from the smaller black icterids (blackbirds, grackles and cowbirds) based on size alone. Crows and ravens are notably large for songbirds, larger than pigeons. Blackbirds and grackles are smaller than pigeons, as are starlings and cowbirds.
Adult common grackles measure from 28 to 34 cm (11 to 13 in) in length, span 36–46 cm (14–18 in) across the wings and weigh 74–142 g (2.6–5.0 oz). Common grackles are less sexually dimorphic than larger grackle species but the differences between the sexes can still be noticeable. The male, which averages 122 g (4.3 oz), is larger than the female, at an average of 94 g (3.3 oz). 
The Great-Tailed Grackle, also known as the blackbird, crow and jackdaw, is larger than the common grackle and is found in Texas, Kansas, Southern California and Arizona south to Peru, and Venezuela. They have bright yellow eyes and a uniform color. The Grackle, or common grackle, is a black bird about ten to twelve inches tall and are similar to blackbirds but have a longer tail and larger body. The common grackle has black body feathers and pale eyes while the juvenile has brown body feathers and dark eyes that turn yellow before their first winter.
The great-tailed grackle or Mexican grackle (Quiscalus mexicanus) is a medium-sized, gregarious passerine bird native to North and South America. A member of the family Icteridae, it is one of ten extant species of grackle and is closely related to the boat-tailed grackle and the slender-billed grackle. It is sometimes erroneously referred to as a blackbird in the southern United States, although blackbirds belong to the genus Euphagus.
The common grackle is a common and often urban blackbird of eastern North America. Polytypic. Length 12.6 (32 cm). Identification A large blackbird with strong legs and a long, graduated tail that is held in a deep keeled shape during the breeding season. Adult male: entirely black with noticeable iridescence in good light. 
First, listen for a slightly different call. All of the blackbirds and grackles give a low harsh check or tuk call in flight. In Red-winged Blackbird this is a relatively simple and unmusical chek, like hitting two twigs together. Rusty Blackbird’s call is more like chook, it has more complexity and depth. 
Took this shot yesterday just west of Wichita Falls TX. Had a Great-tailed Grackle next to I think a Brewer's Blackbird. Brewer's should be around 9 inches while the GTG should be around 18....this Blackbird seems slightly larger than that but otherwise fits well. I would think a Rusty would still be quite....rusty, this time of the year. Thanks. Common is in range for this area, although we don't see many. I really didn't think the bill on the smaller bird was large enough for a Common Grackle, seems much more Blackbirdish to me. Life List: #573 ABA List: #444. 2012 List: #240 2013 List: #290 2014 List: #447 2015 List: #373.
This medium-sized bird is larger than other blackbirds found in Texas, and the combination of an all-black plumage, yellow eye, and longer, but not conspicuously long tail, separates Common Grackle males from others of its family in Texas. Females are duller and juveniles are dull brown. 