Tips To Avoid Tourist Traps. Although Budapest is safer for tourists than most big cities, there are some common tourist traps, and inconveniences that you have to know about and take some precautions to ensure your safety in Budapest. Safety TIP #2: Keep your money, documents, mobile phone safe and secure; in a belt bag at the front of your body or in an inside pocket. Keep your camera in a bag with a strap wearing it across your shoulder. I always use a messenger bag positioned on the front of my body.
Hungary is generally a safe country. People in Hungary are hospitable and are welcoming of visitors. Hungary and Budapest in particular share similar issues with other countries and major cities frequented by visitors. 
Safety TIP #1: travel by taxi only if it’s the simplest and quickest way to get to your destination within Budapest. Otherwise use the extensive and cheaper public transport. Safety TIP #2: Keep your money, documents, mobile phone safe and secure; in a belt bag at the front of your body or in an inside pocket. Keep your camera in a bag with a strap wearing it across your shoulder. I always use a messenger bag positioned on the front of my body. This way my hands are free to take photos
Hungary is, in general, a very safe country. According to the 2012 study of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Hungary had an intentional homicide rate of only 1.3 per 100,000 inhabitants. Hungary is a member of the Schengen Agreement. There are no border controls between countries that have signed and implemented this treaty-the European Union (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom), Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
· just now. Report Abuse. Budapest is a safe place to visit but like any tourist cities, it has some problems with pickpockets. As long as you take some precautions like not have a lot of money with you, keep your money close with you, try to stay in public place, etc. you should be fine. Buda is of course very safe, expensive relative to Pest and pretty sterile. You are not with the locals much in Buda, tourist side of town. Although, we liked the Pest Buda (local joke I guess) restaurnat down from the Hyatt, nutty waiters but colorful.
Hungary (Magyarorszag) magyarország is a country In Central europe Bordering slovakia to the, North austria to the, West slovenia And croatia to the south, West serbia to the, South romania to the east And ukraine to the north. east Hungary is a member of the Schengen Agreement. There are no border controls between countries that have signed and implemented this treaty-the European Union (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom), Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
Budapest Travel Safety. Travel safety advice for people travelling to Budapest. Free up-to-date specialist advice on risks, scams, areas to avoid, things to know, vaccination and alerts. Have your questions about safety in Budapest answered by a professional. Hungary is home to many sneaky scammers. Budapest in particular is a place where tourists can fall victim to the community of corrupt taxi drivers, restaurant owners and seemingly lovely ladies, who are working together.
Budapest is a safe place to visit but like any tourist cities, it has some problems with pickpockets. Buda is of course very safe, expensive relative to Pest and pretty sterile. You are not with the locals much in Buda, tourist side of town. Although, we liked the Pest Buda (local joke I guess) restaurnat down from the Hyatt, nutty waiters but colorful.
UTC +1. Hungary (Magyarorszag) magyarország is a country In Central europe Bordering slovakia to the, North austria to the, West slovenia And croatia to the south, West serbia to the, South romania to the east And ukraine to the north. East member of The European union and The Schengen-border Less Europe. agreement Hungary is a member of the Schengen Agreement. There are no border controls between countries that have signed and implemented this treaty-the European Union (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Ireland, Romania and the United Kingdom), Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland.
How safe? As The European Crime and Safety Survey points out Spain, Hungary, Portugal and Finland had the lowest crime rates in Europe in 2007 (while to top five were Ireland, UK, Estonia, Holland and Denmark). There is an important footnote, however, namely that Budapest with its 2 million people is a big city so make sure you have the precautions you would have in any big city: 1  guard your wallet or purse especially in crowded places like markets, malls, stores, metro and railway stations, festivals.