Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been demonstrated to be an effective and safe treatment for many psychiatric disorders. The use of ECT still generates significant controversy, however. One review concluded that ECT is only marginally more effective than placebo (ie, sham ECT). Electroconvulsive Therapy in Pregnancy. ECT is considered safe and effective for the mother and fetus in the treatment of major depressive disorder during pregnancy. ECT is a potential treatment for patients with bipolar disorder who are experiencing mixed episodes, severe mania, or severe depression
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) can provide rapid, significant improvements in severe symptoms of several mental health conditions. ECT is used to treat: 1  Severe depression, particularly when accompanied by detachment from reality (psychosis), a desire to commit suicide or refusal to eat. ECT may be a good treatment option when medications aren't tolerated or other forms of therapy haven't worked. In some cases ECT is used: 1  During pregnancy, when medications can't be taken because they might harm the developing fetus. 2  In older adults who can't tolerate drug side effects.
When treatments such as medication and therapy aren’t able to relieve the symptoms of depression or another mental health condition, there are other options available. A psychiatrist might suggest electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) or other forms of brain stimulation. It is most often used to treat severe depression and depression with psychosis that has not responded to medications. In some cases of treatment resistant bipolar disorder, ECT may be considered as a treatment option. Once called electroshock therapy, ECT still has many negative associations.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure, done under general anesthesia, in which small electric currents are passed through the brain, intentionally triggering a brief seizure. ECT seems to cause changes in brain chemistry that can quickly reverse symptoms of certain mental illnesses. 
How Well It Works. Studies have shown that ECT is an effective short-term treatment for severe depression. ECT may be used after other treatments have not worked. It is important to have follow-up treatment with medicine or maintenance ECT to reduce the risk of relapse. ECT is used for severe depression and other psychiatric or neurological conditions (such as Parkinson's disease or schizophrenia). Sometimes ECT is used for older adults who are taking multiple medicines for other illnesses and who are not able to take additional medicines for
Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT). Guide. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure used to treat severe depression. It may be used in people who have symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, or suicidal thoughts or when other treatments such as psychotherapy and antidepressant medicines have not worked. ECT is used for severe depression and other psychiatric or neurological conditions (such as Parkinson's disease or schizophrenia). Sometimes ECT is used for older adults who are taking multiple medicines for other illnesses and who are not able to take additional medicines for
ECT is often used with informed consent as a last line of intervention for major depressive disorder, mania and catatonia. A round of ECT is effective for about 50% of people with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder, whether it is unipolar or bipolar. However, drugs that are known to cause toxicity in combination with ECT, such as lithium, are discontinued, and benzodiazepines, which increase seizure thresholds, are either discontinued, a benzodiazepine antagonist is administered at each ECT session, or the ECT treatment is adjusted accordingly.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), formerly known as electroshock therapy and often referred to as shock treatment, is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are electrically induced in patients to provide relief from psychiatric illnesses. It is the only currently used form of shock therapy in psychiatry. However, drugs that are known to cause toxicity in combination with ECT, such as lithium, are discontinued, and benzodiazepines, which increase seizure thresholds, are either discontinued, a benzodiazepine antagonist is administered at each ECT session, or the ECT treatment is adjusted accordingly.
It is also a misconception that ECT is used as a quick fix in place of long-term therapy or hospitalization. Nor is it correct to believe that the patient is painfully shocked out of the depression. Unfavorable news reports and media coverage have contributed to the controversy surrounding this treatment. ECT is one of the fastest ways to relieve symptoms in severely depressed or suicidal patients. It's also very effective for patients who suffer from mania or other mental illnesses. ECT is generally used when severe depression is unresponsive to other forms of therapy. Or it might be used when patients pose a severe threat to themselves or others and it is too dangerous to wait until medications take effec