DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 
DNA is made up of two strands and each strand of the original DNA molecule serves as a template for the production of the complementary strand, a process referred to as semiconservative replication. Cellular proofreading and error-checking mechanisms ensure near perfect fidelity for DNA replication. Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis.
1 A molecule of a DNA polymerase binds to one strand of the DNA and begins moving along it in the 3' to 5' direction, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand of nucleotides and reforming a double helix. 2  In eukaryotes, this molecule is called DNA polymerase epsilon (ε). 1 A portion of the double helix is unwound by a helicase. 2 
Replication Fork [edit]. When DNA is being replicated, it forms a replication fork that was created during the helicase process that separates the DNA strand. The strands that are separated are called the leading strand and the lagging strand accordingly. The leading strand is synthesized in the 5'-3' direction
Here the new strands of DNA are added. In order for the DNA strands to separate, 3 types of enzymes are needed. Helicases, single-strand binding proteins and topoisomerase. Priming: Once the replication fork is established a short segment of RNA,formed by an enzyme called primase, initiates the process of replication. With the primer in place, DNA polymerase catalyzes the synthesis of a new strand of DNA. The new nucleotides align themselves with the old DNA. These strands grow from the 5'--3' direction. The energy for this process comes from the 2 P molecules attached to the nucleotide as it is moved into plac
DNA replication is the process of producing two identical replicas from one original DNA molecule. This biological process occurs in all living organisms and is the basis for biological inheritance. Unwinding of DNA at the origin and synthesis of new strands results in replication forks growing bidirectional from the origin. A number of proteins are associated with the replication fork which helps in terms of the initiation and continuation of DNA synthesis.
Helicase separates the DNA into two template strands. RNA primase then adds a short sequence of RNA to the template strands. This short sequence of RNA is a primer which allows DNA polymerase III to bind to the strands and start the replication process. Once this is done, DNA polymerase III adds nucleotides to each template strand in a 5'→3' direction.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. During DNA replication, the DNA molecule separates into two strands, then produces two new complementary strands following the rules of base pairing. Each strand of the double helix of DNA serves as a template, or model, for the new strand. 