The method is increasingly being seen as a safe alternative to the widespread use of toxic mercury in artisanal gold mining today. About 30% of the world's mercury emissions comes from small scale mining. The borax method of gold extraction has been used by artisanal gold miners in the Benguet area north of Manila in the Philippines for more than 30 years.
melting is what you do to a material that is metal, without flux. What you would do with pure PMs. Smelting is what is done to remove impurities from gold and reduce/oxidize other materials out. Since gold does not oxidize borax affects lighter elements that oxidize and rise to the surface.
Got a box of Borax here and know what I'm going to use it for! Remember that Jet Dry and Epsom Salt has it's propose... in a recirculation system they do their jobs. Borax comes into play when you have gold and want to smelt it. Quote from: drycrick on August 21, 2012, 07:59:23 PM. I thought we were talking about using borax in the panning for gold. We have a huge water recirculating system and we use borax in the water.
You will find that when you melt your gold with borax the borax turns into a glassy layer on top of the gold when you pour it into a mold and once the gold cools but is still very hot you tip the gold/borax mix into a bucket of water and the thermal shock will break the borax off. Borax comes into play when you have gold and want to smelt it. Quote from: drycrick on August 21, 2012, 07:59:23 PM. I thought we were talking about using borax in the panning for gold. We have a huge water recirculating system and we use borax in the water.
Re: Flux Recipe. I think this is the one you are looking for copied from ggpa website The Poormans Method of SMELTING GOLD A simple answer; The process or recovery of micro Gold from Concentrates What do I need to do to Smelt my concentrates Acetylene torch. 2, You will see a layer of precious metal on top and a layer of Borax/silica glass below melted together. 3, using a small hammer or mallet, strike the edge of the metal and it'll separate from the glass. 4, That is your Gold with possible silver and platinum mixed in.
It is also used to make buffer solutions in biochemistry, as a fire retardant, as an anti-fungal compound, in the manufacture of fiberglass, as a flux in metallurgy, neutron-capture shields for radioactive sources, a texturing agent in cooking, and as a precursor for other boron compounds. For sodium perborate, see Sodium perborate. Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is an important boron compound, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve easily in water. Borax has a wide variety of use
By using borax, no mercury flour is produced, hence gold recovery increases. The borax method of gold extraction has been used by artisanal gold miners in the Benguet area north of Manila in the Philippines for more than 30 years. Some believe it was in practice as early as the 1900
Prior to using it you should melt borax into it which you can buy locally, but be sure that the borax is pure. This assists in the melting and creates a sliding casing for the molten metal. You can make a shape or a cast by carving some fire brick, cuttle fish or even a piece of shaped hardwood.......... 
I am a Blacksmith and I use borax for forge welding. It keeps the atmosphere off the metal so it does not oxidize where I am going to make a jointed forge weld. Borax for the smelting process does the same. As for the foaming that is the moisture in the borax as it also like to absorb moisture. Wet borax can also cause problems when in contact with molten metal so be careful there. Borax comes into play when you have gold and want to smelt it. Quote from: drycrick on August 21, 2012, 07:59:23 PM. I thought we were talking about using borax in the panning for gold. We have a huge water recirculating system and we use borax in the water.