The first thing you should know if you are considering Arpita for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Arpita is a girl name. The name Arpita is of Sanskrit origin, and is used mostly in Hindi speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Pronunciation: (ar PIH tah). Form of: Itself (Arpita). The meaning of the name “Arpita” is: “Offered; entrusted”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Meaning of Indian name: Arpita. Meaning of the name Arpita is 'Dedicated'. Arpita is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Arpita is '2'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Arpita'. Meaning of the name Arpita is 'Dedicated'. Arpita is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Arpita is '2'
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Arpita in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Arpita in Nautical Flags page.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Arpita and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Arpita and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Pronunciation: (ar PIH tah). Form of: Itself (Arpita). The meaning of the name “Arpita” is: “Offered; entrusted”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Popularity of the Name Arpita. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Arpita is not popular in other countries all over the world. Pronunciation: (ar PIH tah). Form of: Itself (Arpita). The meaning of the name “Arpita” is: “Offered; entrusted”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Arpita is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ar-pi-ta. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 14680 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Arpita in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Arpita in Nautical Flags page.
Name Arpita generally means Dedicate, is of Indian origin, Name Arpita is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Jain or Hindu by religion. Name Arpita belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) and Nakshatra (stars) Krithika. Find qualities of Aries (Mesh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Arpita or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Mesh (Aries) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Aarpit.
Indian name. In Indian, the name Arpita means-offerings.The name Arpita originated as an Indian name. The name Arpita is most often used as a boy name or male name. Indian Name Meaning-offerings. Origin-India.
The meaning of Arpita is “Offered; entrusted”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Pronunciation: (ar PIH tah). Form of: Itself (Arpita). The meaning of the name “Arpita” is: “Offered; entrusted”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.