Although connective tissue exists in a number of forms, all types have three basic structural elements -- cells, fibres and intercellular substance (ground substance). The most common cell types are fibroblasts, which produce fibres and other intercellular materials. a) Areolar (Loose) Connective Tissue (Slide #31). Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them. It also surrounds and supports the blood vesse
EXTRACELLULAR MATRIX. The extracellular matrix of connective tissue is composed of ground substance and fibers. In ordinary connective tissue, the ground substanc e consists mainly of water. The principal fiber type is collagen (the most abundant protein in the body), with elastic fibers as a minor element. The extracellular materials which comprise the matrix are produced by fibroblasts.
Collagen /ˈkɒlədʒɨn/ is the main structural protein in the extracellular space in the various connective tissues in animals. As the main component of connective tissue, it is the most abundant protein in mammals, making up from 25% to 35% of the whole-body protein content. 
Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue. All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water.
Connective tissue cells are able to reproduce but not as rapidly as epithelial cells. Most connective tissues have a good blood supply but some do not. Numerous cell types are found in connective tissue. Three of the most common are the fibroblast, macrophage, and mast cell. The types of connective tissue include loose connective tissue, adipose tissue, dense fibrous connective tissue, elastic connective tissue, cartilage, osseous tissue (bone), and blood. 
Photo by: Alila. The human body is composed of just four basic kinds of tissue: nervous, muscular, epithelial, and connective tissue. Connective tissue is the most abundant, widely distributed, and varied type. It includes fibrous tissues, fat, cartilage, bone, bone marrow, and blood
Cartilage and bone form the skeletal framework of the body while blood is the vascular (transport) tissue of animals. I. Connective tissue proper a) Areolar (Loose) Connective Tissue (Slide #31) Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them. It also surrounds and supports the blood vessels. a) Areolar (Loose) Connective Tissue (Slide #31). Areolar connective tissue is the most widespread connective tissue of the body. It is used to attach the skin to the underlying tissue. It also fills the spaces between various organs and thus holds them in place as well as cushions and protects them.
Best Answer: D. Loose connective tissue is the most common. This is the connective tissue that keeps things in place and keeps epithelial issue attached. 