Cicadas are flying, plant-feeding insects that are most famous for their powerful singing voices and rare appearances. Of course, not all cicada species dramatically appear en masse at regular intervals of 13 or 17 years. Some species feature adults that pop up on a more ho-hum annual basis. 
6) Cicadas provide a revealing example of the workings of evolution and natural selection. If a stray cicada appears outside the cycle of the brood (while most stay underground for 17 years, some do for 13 years), its chances for survival are basically nil.
You’ve no doubt heard about the large brood of 17-year cicadas that will soon emerge in New York City and beyond. If you garden, you’ve probably wondered what these gigantic insects might do to your plants. The good news is that adult cicadas (Magicicada species), though large and noisy, do not tend to do much damage. Cicada grubs do eat plant roots and are a common underground pest, but they’re not too serious, and any harm that this brood has done was done in previous years. The only damage adult cicadas are likely to cause plants, even during a heavy emergence, is from ovipositing.
The Cicadoidea, cicadas (/sɪˈkɑːdə/ or /sɪˈkeɪdə/), are a superfamily of insects in the order Hemiptera, suborder Auchenorrhyncha (formerly part of the obsolete Homoptera), along with smaller jumping bugs such as leafhoppers and froghoppers. When the eggs hatch, the newly hatched nymphs drop to the ground and burrow. Cicadas live underground as nymphs for most of their lives at depths down to about 2.5 metres (10 ft). Nymphs have strong front legs for digging and excavating chambers in close proximity to roots where they feed on xylem sap.
Most cicadas are cryptic, singing at night to avoid predators. The periodic cicadas spend most of their lives as underground nymphs, only emerging after 13 or 17 years, most likely to reduce losses by satiating their predators. Cicadas have been featured in literature since the time of Homer's Iliad, and as motifs in art from the Chinese Shang dynasty. When the eggs hatch, the newly hatched nymphs drop to the ground and burrow. Cicadas live underground as nymphs for most of their lives at depths down to about 2.5 metres (10 ft). Nymphs have strong front legs for digging and excavating chambers in close proximity to roots where they feed on xylem sap.
Some things cicada do not do: Here are some things cicadas do not do: 1) They don’t seek shelter during the fall months (i.e. they don’t try to live inside your house), unlike Ladybugs or Stinkbugs. 2) They don’t sting or otherwise pass venom onto people. The Latin root of the word cicada, is cicada ! Looking back a bit farther, the Sanskrit word for cicada is चिश्चिर, which is pronounced cizcira. Not too big a leap from cizcira to cicada. There are other similar Sanskrit and Latin words, for instance, 17 in Sanskrit is saptadaz, while 17 in Latin is septendecim.
Other names: Cicadas are also called 17 year Locust, Cicada insects or Periodical Cicada. Large spring hatches, called broods, emerge in 13 year and 17 year cycles. The 2015 Cicada emergence will have two different broods emerging. Brood IV will arrive in IA,KS,MO,NE,OK, and TX. This brood is a 17 year cycle. 
Most cicadas go through a life cycle that lasts from two to five years. Some species have much longer life cycles, such as the North American genus, Magicicada, which has a number of distinct  broods  that go through either a 17-year or, in some parts of the world, a 13-year life cycle. When the eggs hatch, the newly hatched nymphs drop to the ground and burrow. Cicadas live underground as nymphs for most of their lives at depths down to about 2.5 metres (10 ft). Nymphs have strong front legs for digging and excavating chambers in close proximity to roots where they feed on xylem sap.
Cicadas are also famous for their penchant for disappearing entirely for many years, only to reappear in force at a regular interval. There are some 3,000 cicada species, but only some share this behavior (the 17-year cicada is an example). 
Magicicada is the genus of the 13-year and 17-year periodical cicadas of eastern North America. Although they are sometimes called  locusts , this is a misnomer as cicadas belong to the taxonomic order Hemiptera, suborder Auchenorrhyncha, while locusts belong to Orthoptera. Generally, the 17-year cicadas are distributed more in the northern states of the eastern United States, while the 13-year cicadas occur in the southern states, but some may overlap slightly. For example, Broods IV (17 year cycle) and XIX (13 year cycle) overlap in western Missouri and eastern Oklahoma.