Here's what flood insurance pays out for each type of property covered: 1  Contents. 2  Flood insurance pays actual cash value (not the most generous amount -- it means the cost to replace the damaged or lost property based on its actual, depreciated value as used goods). 3  Property. Get Flood Insurance Coverage for Property and Contents. A flood insurance policy through the NFIP can provide maximum coverage of $250,000 for property and $100,000 for contents.
Know What Flood Insurance Doesn't Cover. A good flood insurance policy can be a financial lifeboat following a destructive event such as a hurricane. But flood insurance doesn't cover everything. Before buying, you should know about the following key restrictions and limitations, which are specific to flood insurance. Get Flood Insurance Coverage for Property and Contents. A flood insurance policy through the NFIP can provide maximum coverage of $250,000 for property and $100,000 for contents.
Homeowners’ insurance can protect your home from losses due to fire, theft, and other perils. A home-warranty plan, though, offers a service contract that can pay for unexpected repairs to the home’s plumbing, electrical system, appliances, etc., during the warranty period, which typically ranges from one to 10 years. Make sure your family has a plan of evacuation, including a list of people to contact in the event you need to leave the area. Florida Department of Financial Services  1-877-MY-FL-CFO (1-877-693-5236)  www.MyFloridaCfo.com As the Storm Approaches.
Instead of nervously checking your insurance documents in the midst of hunkering down for a storm, you should make sure your home insurance needs – which may include homeowners, windstorm and flood coverage – are met before hurricane season (generally June through November) arrives. If the hurricane destroys your home, your home insurance policy will cover you for additional living expenses. Damage to your automobiles from a hurricane would be covered not by your homeowners insurance, but instead by your car insurance’s comprehensive coverage (provided you have such coverage).
You cannot obtain new or additional coverage when a tropical storm or hurricane watch or warning has been issued for any area within the state of Florida. Don’t wait until the last minute to secure your policy, especially during hurricane season (June 1 through Nov. 30), when several storms can form simultaneously. Make sure your family has a plan of evacuation, including a list of people to contact in the event you need to leave the area. Florida Department of Financial Services  1-877-MY-FL-CFO (1-877-693-5236)  www.MyFloridaCfo.com As the Storm Approaches.
You can purchase flood insurance from your broker or agent through the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which is managed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Get Flood Insurance Coverage for Property and Contents. A flood insurance policy through the NFIP can provide maximum coverage of $250,000 for property and $100,000 for contents.
Did You Know... Floods are the #1 disaster in the United States. Florida Flooding at a Glance The vast majority of Florida is at or near sea level, with its highest point-a hilltop near Lakewood in Walton County-reaching a mere 345 feet.
Review Insurance Policies: Before the official kickoff of hurricane season, take time to review your homeowners and flood coverage. If you're a AAA Insurance customer, your agent will provide a free review and can explain what will be covered in the event of a hurricane. 
There is no one insurance coverage that can cover all of the possible damage a hurricane can cause to your home. Instead, you may need a mixture of policies – home, wind and flood – to be fully covered. Where you live can also impact your hurricane insurance needs. If the hurricane destroys your home, your home insurance policy will cover you for additional living expenses. Damage to your automobiles from a hurricane would be covered not by your homeowners insurance, but instead by your car insurance’s comprehensive coverage (provided you have such coverage).