(another form of hydrogen. used as fuel for fusion bombs. aka hydrogen bombs) hydrogen gas is a diatomic molecule consisting of two hydrogen atoms bonded to one another. as to what protons, neutrons, and electrons are made of......muons, gluons, quarks, bosons, et. al which are in turn made of energy.... Best Answer: like the others..... the element hydrogen has 1 Proton and 1 electron and varying numbers of neutrons. FYI. the number of protons dictates the element. Hydrogen = 1 proton, helium = 2 protons, oxygen = 8 protons.
The Hydrogen molecule has 2 protons and two electrons because it is made up of two hydrogen atoms which each have one proton and one electron. Hydrogen molecule has one proton and one neutron. The hydrogen is the most abundant gas in the earth. Hydrogen is the first element in the periodic table.
A Hydrogen atom is made of a single proton and a single electron. However, it usually is found as a molecule which consists of two hydrogen atoms. As an acid, Hydrogen exists as a positive hydrogen ion in solution. In other words, it is a single proton. It combines with water molecules to form positive H3O ions. Best Answer: like the others..... the element hydrogen has 1 Proton and 1 electron and varying numbers of neutrons. FYI. the number of protons dictates the element. Hydrogen = 1 proton, helium = 2 protons, oxygen = 8 protons.
Hydrogen and oxygen are elements. What that really means is that when an atom, the fundamental unit that makes up everything, has 1 proton (a positively charged sub-atomic particle) it is a hydrogen atom, and when it has 8 protons, it is an oxygen atom. Hydrogen gas is two hydrogen atoms bonded together, H 2. 
Hydrogen is a chemical element with chemical symbol H and atomic number 1. With an atomic weight of 7000100794000000000♠1.00794 u, hydrogen is the lightest element on the periodic table. Its monatomic form (H) is the most abundant chemical substance in the universe, constituting roughly 75% of all baryonic mass. Non-remnant stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state.
Hydrogen peroxide is often described as being “water but with one more oxygen atom”, a description which can give the incorrect impression that there is a great deal of similarity between the two compounds. Hydrogen peroxide is the simplest peroxide (a compound with an oxygen-oxygen single bond) and finds use as a strong oxidizer, bleaching agent and disinfectant. Concentrated hydrogen peroxide, or ' high-test peroxide ,' is a reactive oxygen species and has been used as a propellant in rocketry.
Industrially, hydrogen gas is made using two methods, usually one after the other. In the first reaction, called steam reforming, methane is reacted with water to form hydrogen gas and carbon monoxide. 
Diagram of a hydrogen atom. Hydrogen is the simplest kind of atom, and in the very earliest days after the Big Bang hydrogen was the only kind of atom in the new Universe. A hydrogen atom, like other atoms, has a nucleus. The nucleus of a hydrogen atom is made of just one proton. Around the nucleus, there is just one electron, which goes around and around the nucleus. Eagle Nebula. The first hydrogen atoms in space gradually grouped together into clumps called nebulae. 
Report Abuse. Some Hydrogen is from Baryon family one proton and one electron, some hydrogen is also deuterium being one proton one neutron and one electron, and also there is the tritium being one proton and two neutrons with one electron. 