Students must complete a four-year bachelor’s degree to enter a doctor of physical therapy program. While completing the undergraduate degree, they may have to take required prerequisite courses, such as biology, chemistry, physics, social science and statistics, to gain admittance to the graduate program. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field. For example, the Hospital for Special Surgery offers a hand therapy fellowship that requires a nine-month commitment to complete.
Residency Programs. Some physical therapists continue their studies after the doctorate program in a physical therapy residency or fellowship. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field. For example, the Hospital for Special Surgery offers a hand therapy fellowship that requires a nine-month commitment to complete.
An entry-level job as physical therapist assistant requires an associate degree in physical therapist assisting, consisting of approximately 60 semester units. Programs take two years or five semesters, including time for required clinical practice. Career Facts. Advances in technology and an U.S. aging population will greatly increase the demand for physical therapist assistants in coming years. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics expects the number of PTA jobs to increase by 46 percent between 2010 and 2020, compared with 14 percent for the average job. As of 2012, the average annual income of physical therapist assistants was $52,320, according to the BLS
DPT programs typically last 3 years. Most programs require a bachelor’s degree for admission as well as specific prerequisites, such as anatomy, physiology, biology, chemistry, and physics. Most DPT programs require applicants to apply through the Physical Therapist Centralized Application Service (PTCAS). The median annual wage for physical therapists was $79,860 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $55,620, and the top 10 percent earned more than $112,020.
In order to work as a physical therapist, you must complete a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree program. As of 2014, there were 228 physical therapy programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education (CAPTE), most of which last three years. 
1 The average GPA for students accepted to physical therapy programs in 2011-2012 was 3.52, so be prepared to study rigorously during your time as an undergraduate. 2  If you'd like to be a physical therapists' assistant, then you can earn an associates degree instead. 1. Make sure you have what it takes to be a physical therapist. Before you jump into the educational program that is required for you to be a physical therapist, you should have a clear sense of what this career entails.
In most cases, it takes seven years or more to become a licensed physical therapist. The first four years of training are completed at the undergraduate level in health, science or a related field. The next three years are towards a master's degree plus one year of studies in a doctorate degree program. If you've decided that you want to pursue a career as a physical therapist, you may have wondered how long the training program typically takes.
Confidence votes 129. It takes 7 years to become a Physical Therapist. Typically 4 years to obtain an undergraduate degree and 3 years of physical therapy school. With this you get a DPT (Doctorate in Physical Therapy) in most programs. Answer   After high school (if you start college right away) it should take about 4 years to become a physical therapist.
The lowest 10 percent of physical therapists earned $54,710, and the top 10 percent earned $110,670 annually during the same period. Physical therapists working in the management, scientific and technical consulting industry earned the highest salaries in 2011, according to the BLS, with annual mean earnings of $91,020. A residency program may take up to a year to complete and allow the therapist to focus on a specific area in the field. For example, the Hospital for Special Surgery offers a hand therapy fellowship that requires a nine-month commitment to complete.