POVIDONE IODINE USES. Povidone iodine is used to prevent and treat infection. It is a germicide, sometimes known as an antiseptic. It is used as an antiseptic for skin that is infected or that is likely to become infected. Povidone iodine works by slowly releasing iodine which kills or prevents the growth of bacteria, fungi and viruses. In general this drug is used to prevent or treat infection in wounds including ulcers, burns, cuts, minor surgical procedures and other minor injuries. Benefits of being on this drug can include prevention and treatment of skin infection. Listed below are the typical uses of povidone iodine.
Providone iodine is an antiseptic product used to disinfect skin. Povidone iodine is sometimes found in first aid kits. Povidone iodine is sometimes used as a mouthwash that people are expected to spit out after use. Povidone iodine is often used to disinfect minor cuts and scrapes. Povidone iodine is usually available through pharmacies. Some people may refer to this product as PVP-I for polyvinylpyrrolidone-iodine. It has a reddish to brown color and can stain skin and clothing. Some companies manufacture dry preparations of this compound for people to mix in solution as it is required. Packaged bottles of povidone iodine are also available.
In nature, iodine exists as elemental iodine or as an iodide. Elemental iodine is two iodine atoms bonded together. In this form, iodine should never be ingested or applied directly to skin or tissue. It is highly corrosive and will cause severe damage to tissue on contact.
A water soluble complex of iodine with polyvinylpyrrolidone. Applied as an antiseptic in the form of solutions or ointments, it releases iodine. Used in cleansing and disinfecting the skin, preparing the skin preoperatively, and treating infections susceptible to iodine. po路vi路done i路o路dine. a
Betadine is a stable chemical complex of polyvinylpyrrolidone (povidone, PVP) and elemental iodine. It contains from 9.0% to 12.0% available iodine, calculated on a dry basis. This unique complex was discovered in 1955 at the Industrial Toxicology Laboratories in Philadelphia by H. A. Shelanski and M. V. Shelanski. Povidone-iodine is a broad spectrum antiseptic for topical application in the treatment and prevention of infection in wounds. May be used in first aid for minor cuts, grazes, burns, abrasions and blisters.
The best-known and most widely used iodophor is povidone-iodine, a compound of polyvinylpyrrolidone with iodine. This product and other iodophors retain the germicidal efficacy of iodine but unlike iodine generally are nonstaining and relatively free of toxicity and irritancy 677, 678. 
Iodide is the ion state of iodine, occurring when iodine bonds with another element, such as potassium. In this form, iodine can be ingested or applied topically (such as with povidone iodine, an iodide). Dietary iodine also occurs naturally as an iodide, such as potassium iodide or sodium iodide (the kind typically placed into salt). Elemental iodine is two iodine atoms bonded together. In this form, iodine should never be ingested or applied directly to skin or tissue. It is highly corrosive and will cause severe damage to tissue on contact.
povidone-iodine a complex produced by reacting iodine with povidone; used as a topical antiinfective. povidone, n a polymerized form of vinylpyrolidone, which is a white hygroscopic powder that is easily soluble in water and used as a dispersing and suspending agent in drugs.
povidone. a synthetic polymer used as a dispersing and suspending agent. Called also polyvinylpyrrolidone. povidone-iodine (PVP-I) a complex produced by reacting iodine with the polymer povidone; it slowly releases iodine and is used as a topical antiinfective agent. povidone, n a polymerized form of vinylpyrolidone, which is a white hygroscopic powder that is easily soluble in water and used as a dispersing and suspending agent in drugs.
Povidone-iodine applied to an abrasion using a cotton swab. Povidone-iodine is a broad spectrum antiseptic for topical application in the treatment and prevention of infection in wounds. May be used in first aid for minor cuts, grazes, burns, abrasions and blisters.