An otaku in Japan might be way different from a western world otaku. Most fans in the western world learn the word and refer to themselves as one because of their love of anime, so much so that the Japanese have a strange belief that all foreigners MUST be peppy otaku's. In a way, it's a bad thing and a good thing. ahh, sorry for the confusion! ^_^ vice-versa means back-and-forth, like being an otaku can turn you into a hikkikomori, and being a hikkikomori can turn to into an otaku (sometimes). Also, a hikkikomori is basically people's general idea of an what an otaku is like.
In modern Japanese slang, the term otaku is mostly equivalent to  geek  or  nerd , but in a more derogatory manner than used in the West. However, it can relate to any fan of any particular theme, topic, hobby or form of entertainment. Otaku is derived from a Japanese term for another person's house or family (お宅, otaku). This word is often used metaphorically, as an honorific second-person pronoun. In this usage, its literal translation is you. For example, in the anime Macross, first aired in 1982, Lynn Minmay uses the term this way
Otaku has became used in meaning: nerd or jerk. Nowadays in Japan is the meaning returning back to non-offensive usage because of econimic trends. ELSEWHERE: Out of Japan is the term Otaku used in the meaning of hardcore fan of anime and Manga. Many of anime fans call themselves otaku despite knowing it's meaning in Japan. In America, the term is used to denote a zealous fan, usually of anime and/or manga. Due to its introduction to most people's vocabulary through its tongue-in-cheek use in Gainax's film, otaku tends to have a much less dire definition overseas.
Best Answer: Originally お宅 otaku meant house-and as nerds and geeks tend to hang out in their house the word for them became Otaku. In Japanese Otaku generally refers to a nerd of some sort-most usually a computer nerd with no physical abilities who is heavily into reading and other solitary pursuits. It can also refer to someone who has an unhealthy obsession for anything that is unphysical. In Western cultures the word Otaku has been taken to refer to people who are specifically into Japanese Anime, Games, Cosplay and Basically anyway you look at it the word is negative-more negative that nerd in my opinion. Source(s): JLPT2 - Lived in Japan in Highschool for quite some time.
Otaku (おたく/オタク) is a Japanese term for people with obsessive interests, commonly the anime and manga fandom. Its contemporary usage originated with Akio Nakamori 's 1983 essay in Manga Burikko. Otaku is derived from a Japanese term for another person's house or family (お宅, otaku). This word is often used metaphorically, as an honorific second-person pronoun. In this usage, its literal translation is you. For example, in the anime Macross, first aired in 1982, Lynn Minmay uses the term this way
otaku. The term otaku seems to have been introduced to anime fans in the US and other countries via Studio Gainax's Otaku no Video 1985, a self-parody film. Otaku, meaning probably venerable house, refers to someone who has a devotion to a subject or hobby (not necessarily anime) to the point of not leaving home. In America, the term is used to denote a zealous fan, usually of anime and/or manga. Due to its introduction to most people's vocabulary through its tongue-in-cheek use in Gainax's film, otaku tends to have a much less dire definition overseas.
Otaku is the honorific word of Taku (home). Otaku is extremely negative in meaning as it is used to refer to someone who stays at home all the time and doesn't have a life (no social life, no love life, etc). In America, the term is used to denote a zealous fan, usually of anime and/or manga. Due to its introduction to most people's vocabulary through its tongue-in-cheek use in Gainax's film, otaku tends to have a much less dire definition overseas.
Anime Genshiken. We first have, perhaps the most famous kind of Otaku, the anime and manga Otaku. Many people will fall into this category because it’s not that difficult to be placed into this of Otaku style. What an Anime/Manga Otaku is basically about is the love for anime and/or manga. Cosplay Otaku. Anime Lucky☆Star. Here is where it gets interesting, an Cosplay Otaku is basically a person who loves anime, manga, video games, etc. so much that they want to dress up as them. It doesn’t always have to be that black and white.
An Anime/Manga Otaku is the most popular kind of Otaku you can be referred as and people who hear about these Otaku, often have a positive look about them. It’s a normal thing these days, while some years ago, it would have been a little more taboo. Cosplay Otaku. Anime Lucky☆Star. Here is where it gets interesting, an Cosplay Otaku is basically a person who loves anime, manga, video games, etc. so much that they want to dress up as them. It doesn’t always have to be that black and white.