Eating leftovers saves time and money, but food spoils if you leave it in the refrigerator too long. In general, refrigerated chicken leftovers are safe to eat for three to four days. However, proper storage and handling of leftover food is necessary to prevent dangerous bacterial growth. Refrigerated Leftovers. Cooked chicken, chicken broth, fried chicken, chicken soup, chicken casseroles and cooked chicken leftovers from a restaurant or convenience store can be safely refrigerated for three to four days, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
and when it's time to trash them. Leftover-Turkey Bake Recipe. If you lose track of how long that food has been in the refrigerator, always remember: If in doubt—throw it out! For best storage, it’s wise to put hot leftovers into shallow dishes or smaller portions to cool quickly. The following foods will keep only 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator: 1  fresh (raw) ground meats and stew meats. 2  gravy and meat broth. 3  fresh poultry and fresh fish. 4  shrimp, scallops, crayfish and squid.
As a rule of thumb, you shouldn't keep already prepared meals longer than three or four days [source: Dakss ]. That goes for pretty much all your leftovers, from salads to meatloaf. Remember, just because you put all your excess food in the fridge doesn't mean it won't go bad. 
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. Food poisoning — also called foodborne illness — is caused by harmful organisms, such as bacteria in contaminated food. When you're ready to eat leftovers, reheat them on the stove, in the oven or in the microwave until the internal temperature reaches 165 F (74 C). Because they may not get hot enough, slow cookers and chafing dishes aren't recommended for reheating leftovers.
In addition, it's always important to get the food in the refrigerator within 2 hours after it's cooked or sooner if it's cooled enough. If food has been left out for longer than 2 hours, don't put it back in the refrigerator and don't keep it for later. It's not safe to eat. The following foods will keep 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator: 1  Fully cooked ham slices. 2  Cooked meat and meat casseroles. 3  Cooked chicken and chicken casseroles. 4  Pizza.
Leftover cooked chicken, fried chicken and restaurant or convenience store chicken keeps in a freezer for about four months. Use frozen chicken broth or gravy within two to three months, and eat frozen chicken casserole or soup within four to six months. Refrigerated Leftovers. Cooked chicken, chicken broth, fried chicken, chicken soup, chicken casseroles and cooked chicken leftovers from a restaurant or convenience store can be safely refrigerated for three to four days, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
Cooked Food: Leftover, cooked foods should be kept in the refrigerator in an airtight container and eaten within 4-5 days. Food, whether cooked or not, should not be left at room temperature for more than 4 hours otherwise the risk of food poisoning increases. 
According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. 
By John Gregerson. Assuming it is properly packaged, leftover soup will last 3-4 days. Never remove a large pot of soup from the stove and place it directly in the refrigerator. Large masses of food can take hours--even days--to chill properly. A slowly cooling medium provides an ideal environment for bacterial growth. 