20 www.cra.gc.ca oods imported into Canada are subject to the GST or the federal part of the HST, except for non-taxable imports. For more information, see “Non-taxable imports” on page 33. You have to declare and report imported goods to Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) for immediate inspection. 
Goods and services tax (GST). You don’t have to pay duty or the GST on the following goods that are imported into Canada by mail. 1  Foreign-registered publishers outside Canada are allowed to pre-collect the GST on printed matter only, such as books, newspapers, magazines and periodicals.
The NAFTA rates apply when the goods you are importing are made in the U.S. or Mexico. Goods and services tax (GST). You have to pay GST on most goods you import into Canada. This is to make sure the imported goods are taxed in the same way as those sold or provided in Canada. We calculate GST on the mail item's duty-paid value. 
If the goods you are importing from the United States are not of U.S. origin, you may have to pay applicable duties. Regardless of the origin of the goods you are importing, you will need to pay the five percent Goods and Services Tax (GST), just as you would if purchasing the goods in Canada. In Nova Scotia, New Brunswick and Newfoundland, importers pay the 13 percent HST on all imports. When your import shipment arrives from the United States, you will have to show Canada Customs your Cargo Control Documents, Business Number, Invoices, and Permits, and pay any applicable taxes using Form B-3, Canada Customs Coding Form.
HST applies to the same goods and services as GST. The changes to the GST/HST rates come into effect July 1, 2006. Before July 2006, GST was 7% and HST was 15% (7% federal part and 8% provincial part). On or after July 1, 2006, GST is 6% and HST is 14% (6% federal part and 8% provincial part). 
Purchase of goods. Vendors doing business in Canada and who are located outside of Ontario are usually required to register for GST/HST purposes and collect the appropriate tax, whether it is the Goods and Services Tax (GST) or the Harmonized Sales Tax (HST). This is normally based on the province in which the goods are delivered. The above self-assessment does not apply to Ontario businesses that import goods into Ontario (whether from within or outside Canada) for consumption or to be used exclusively (i.e., 90% or more) for commercial purposes.
Harmonized sales tax (HST). You don’t have to pay duty or the HST on the following goods that are imported into Canada by mail. 1  Foreign-registered publishers outside Canada are allowed to pre-collect the GST on printed matter only, such as books, newspapers, magazines and periodicals. You don’t have to pay duty or the G
Generally, the HST applies to the same base of goods and services as the GST 1. Almost everyone has to pay the GST/HST on purchases of taxable goods and services (other than zero-rated supplies). A limited number of sales or supplies are exempt from GST/HST. Exempt or zero rated goods have special requirements. WHAT ARE GST AND HST? The GST is a tax that applies to the supply of most goods and services in Canada. The provinces of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Ontario, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland/Labrador, referred to as the participating provinces, harmonized their provincial sales tax with the GST to create the HST.
Most goods and services supplied in or imported into Canada are taxable supplies and are subject to the GST/HST. Some supplies of goods and services are taxable at the rate of 0% (zero-rated). GST/HST is charged at a rate of 0% on these supplies. In the remaining provinces and territories, GST is imposed on taxable goods and services. In these provinces, there may also be a provincial sales tax or a retail sales tax in place. For the rates of each province, see GST/HST rates.