Prokaryotic reproduction typically involves replication of DNA and binary fission of the cytoplasm to produce two identical offspring. Eukaryotes have a variety of methods of asexual reproduction, including binary fission, budding, fragmentation, spore formation and schizogony. 
However, mitotic sporogenesis is an exception and most spores, such as those of plants, most Basidiomycota, and many algae, are produced by meiosis. Fragmentation (biology) Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms and starfish), fungi, and plants. Best Answer: : Binary fission Many single-celled organisms (unicellular), such as archaea, bacteria, and protists, reproduce asexually through binary fission.
Organisms, both prokaryotes (the archaea and the bacteria), and eukaryotes (such as protists and unicellular fungi), reproduce asexually through binary fission; most of these are also capable of sexual reproduction. Another type of fission is multiple fission that is advantageous to the plant life cycle. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.
Best Answer: Types of Asexual Reproduction Fission Fission occurs in lower plants and animals such as the bacteria, blue-green algae and protozoa. In this process, the cell divides after the genetic material has divided. If the cell divides into two it is called binary fission. Budding It is seen in certain fungi and multicellular animals. In budding, the parent cell or body gives out a lateral outgrowth called the bud. The nucleus divides and one of the daughter nuclei passes into the daughter cell. The bud grows in size while being attached to the parent body.
The main difference is in the genome of the offspring. Asexual reproduction leads to offspring that are nearly genetically identical to the parent. Sexual reproduction involve … s a shuffling of the genome to produce genetic variants in the offspring. In asexual reproduction, the spores are produced by mitosis. Binary fission is the simplest form of asexual reproduction. The parent cell simply divides into two parts that are about equal. Each of the new cells, called daughter cells, becomes a separate individual.
The 3 are mitosis, budding and regeneration. Binary fission, budding, spore formation, regeneration, vegetative propagation, and cloning. (I just learned this in Science class). Binary fission is the simplest form of asexual reproduction. The parent cell simply divides into two parts that are about equal. Each of the new cells, called daughter cells, becomes a separate individual. Each of the new offspring then grows to a normal size
Vegetative reproduction Vegetative reproduction is a type of asexual reproduction found in plants where new independent individuals are formed without the production of seeds or spores. Best Answer: : Binary fission Many single-celled organisms (unicellular), such as archaea, bacteria, and protists, reproduce asexually through binary fission.
Asexual spores are cheap to produce and therefore can be made in large quantities. As the season progresses, fungi produce these masses of asexual spores and thereby colonize new substrata which in turn serve as new bases for spore production. Thus the early stages of colonization may be modest and scattered but the later stages may resemble an out-of-control forest fire.
Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.