IRS Tax Tip 2011-68, April 6, 2011. If you owe taxes but can’t pay the full amount by the April 18 deadline you should still file your return on time and pay as much as you can to avoid penalties and interest. You should also contact the IRS to ask about alternative payment options. For more information about filing and paying your taxes, visit the 1040 Central page on the IRS.gov website or refer to the Form 1040 Instructions or IRS Publication 17, Your Federal Income Tax.
You won't usually have to pay tax on all your income, even if it is all taxable, because you will be entitled to a certain amount of income tax free in each tax year. The tax year runs from 6 April one year to 5 April the following year. There is no minimum age at which you become liable to pay income tax. This amount is called your taxable income. For more information about tax allowances, see Income tax allowances and amounts. Step 4 To calculate the tax payable for 2015/16, you should: 1  calculate tax at 20% of your taxable income up to the basic rate limit of £31,785.
For tax year 2014, the maximum credit is $1,050. If you are an eligible homeowner, you may claim a credit equal to the amount by which your property tax payments in the current year, including 50 percent of water and sewer use charges, exceed 10 percent of your total income. By filing on time, you will not be billed for any late filing penalties. DOR will bill you for the balance due, plus interest and late payment penalty. If you are unable to pay in full the tax bill you receive and the amount due is less than $5,000, you may set up a payment agreement.
1 Use your previous year's federal tax return as a check to make sure you include all the income and deductions you expect to take on your current year's tax return. 2  You should also look at the total tax you paid if you are going to base your estimated tax payments on 100 or 110 percent of your previous year's taxes. Example: You calculate that you need to pay $10,000 in estimated taxes throughout the year, and you don't make your first payment until June 15 (when the second estimate is due), so your first payment will be $5,000. Your September payment and your January payment will be $2,500 each.
If you think you will be able to pay the full amount of the taxes you owe within 120 days, you should call the IRS at 1-800-829-1040 and talk with a representative to see if you can qualify for a short-term extension of time to pay. 
If your previous year's adjusted gross income was more than $150,000 (or $75,000 for those who are married and filing separate returns last year), you will have to pay in 110 percent of your previous year's taxes to satisfy the safe-harbor requirement. Example: You calculate that you need to pay $10,000 in estimated taxes throughout the year, and you don't make your first payment until June 15 (when the second estimate is due), so your first payment will be $5,000. Your September payment and your January payment will be $2,500 each.
5. To find out if you’re paying the right amount of Income Tax, most people can use HM Revenue and Customs’ (. ’s) tax checker. If you can’t use the checker (eg you’re self-employed), you can check you’ve paid the right tax by contacting HMRC or by getting help from an accountant. Check you're paying the right amount. To find out if you’re paying the right amount of Income Tax, most people can use HM Revenue and Customs’ (. ’s) tax checker. If you can’t use the checker (eg you’re self-employed), you can check you’ve paid the right tax by contacting HMRC or by getting help from an accountant.
Confused by your income tax and National Insurance? Our calculator will give you an indication of what you should be paying (based on the Inland Revenue's figures for the financial year 2012/13). 
Yes. If you do not have the money to pay the total amount you owe on your return and cannot pay the minimum 80 percent required to qualify for an extension, you are still required to file on time and pay what you can. By filing on time, you will not be billed for any late filing penalties. DOR will bill you for the balance due, plus interest and late payment penalty. If you are unable to pay in full the tax bill you receive and the amount due is less than $5,000, you may set up a payment agreement. To determine if you qualify, you may access the online Payment Agreement application. Alternatively, you can contact DOR's Customer Service Bureau for a small payment agreement