The Old Town of Edinburgh had many wynds, such as St. Mary's Wynd, Blackfriars Wynd and Niddry Wynd, until Victorian street improvements in the 19th century led to their being widened and renamed streets. Whilst Cove Wynd does have a cave on it (St Fillan's Cave), Calman's Wynd is not, as assumed, derived from coal. On North Carolina’s Bald Head Island the main roads are referred to as wynds, such as North, South and West, Bald Head Wynd and Stede Bonnet Wynd and Edward Teach Wynd.
What is Wynd. Wynd co-working space is located in Central district, in Lan Kwai Fong and near SOHO. The vicinity is the most diverse and vibrant neighborhood in the prime core of Hong Kong. It is the stronghold of international corporations and distinguished local businesses. What is Co-Working Space. Co-working is a style of work that involves a shared working environment and independent activity. Typically it is attractive to work-at-home professionals,independent contractors, or people who travel frequently who end up working in relative isolation.
WYND (1310 AM) is a radio station broadcasting a Christian radio format.Licensed to DeLand, Florida, USA, the station serves the Daytona Beach area. The station is currently owned by Buddy Tucker Association, Inc. 
A narrow street or alley: [as name]: Friars Wynd. More example sentences. 1  Edinburgh's cobbled streets and wynds were perfect for scenes in the Julia Roberts-starring Jekyll and Hyde variation Mary Reilly, and were the setting for ITV's Dickensian Christmas extravaganza, Micawber, starring David Jason. 
Definition of WYND. : a very narrow street. ADVERTISEMENT. Middle English (Scots) wynde, probably from wynden to wind, proceed, go, from Old English windan to twist — more at wind. First Known Use: 15th century. 
Wynd. Wynd is a Scots word for what is typically a narrow lane between houses. The word derives from Old Norse venda, implying a turning off a main street, without implying that it is curved. In fact, most wynds are straight. Whilst Cove Wynd does have a cave on it, Calman's Wynd is not, as assumed, derived from coal. On North Carolina’s Bald Head Island the main roads are referred to as wynds, such as North, South and West, Bald Head Wynd and Stede Bonnet Wynd and Edward Teach Wynd.
wynd. n. 1. (Human Geography) Scot a narrow lane or alley. 
A wynd (/waɪnd/) is typically a narrow lane between houses. The name is frequently encountered in towns and villages in Scotland and Northern England. The word derives from Old Norse venda, implying a turning off a main street, without implying that it is curved. In fact, most wynds are straight. Whilst Cove Wynd does have a cave on it (St Fillan's Cave), Calman's Wynd is not, as assumed, derived from coal. On North Carolina’s Bald Head Island the main roads are referred to as wynds, such as North, South and West, Bald Head Wynd and Stede Bonnet Wynd and Edward Teach Wynd.