Bake for 15 minutes. Lower the heat to 350°F and bake for 30 to 40 minutes: Lower the heat and continue baking the pie for another 30 to 40 minutes, until the crust is golden brown and the fruit filling is bubbling. If the edges of the crust start to darken too quickly, cover them with aluminum foil.
1. Preheat the oven to the temperature that your recipe recommends. Most fruit pies bake at a temperature between 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) and 450 degrees F (230 degrees C). Some recipes call for baking the pie in a 450 degree F oven to begin with, then turning down the oven to about 350 degrees F. When using a pre-cooked filling, pies can bake at a higher temperature for a shorter period of time, just enough to thoroughly bake the crust and heat the filling. To check the doneness of the filling, insert a knife into the center of the pie. If it meets with little or no resistance, the pie is done.
5) If you’ll be baking the crust once it’s filled–for a quiche, pumpkin pie, Key lime pie, or others–bake the crust until the bottom is just beginning to color, 6 to 8 minutes. If you’re making a cream pie or refrigerated pie, bake it until the entire crust is golden brown, about 15 minutes longer. 6) Remove the pie shell from the oven. To help prevent soggy pie or quiche crusts, brush the inside of the crust with egg wash (1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon water) to create a seal.
Preheat the oven to 425F. Bake the crust for 20 minutes, then remove it from the oven and take out the pie weights and the aluminum foil liner. Lower the oven temperature to 375F. Return the pie to the oven to bake for an additional 15 minutes, or until the crust is golden brown. Remove from the oven and cool completely before using. I prefer to have a deep golden brown on my crust. 
Baking Meringue: Meringues will become more done if you bake them at a lower temperature for a longer time. Bake the meringue at 325 degrees F. for 20 to 30 minutes or until a cooking thermometer registers 160 degrees F. Remember a hot filling is important. 
4) Put the pie plate on the preheated baking sheet and reduce the oven temp to 400. Bake until the edges of the crust are starting to turn golden and the bottom of the crust has lost its translucent “raw” look, 10 to 12 minutes (carefully pull up the edge of the foil to take a peek). If you’re making a cream pie or refrigerated pie, bake it until the entire crust is golden brown, about 15 minutes longer. 6) Remove the pie shell from the oven. To help prevent soggy pie or quiche crusts, brush the inside of the crust with egg wash (1 egg beaten with 1 tablespoon water) to create a seal.
Whisk in milk. Pour mixture through a fine strainer and into the prepared pie shell. Bake for 10 minutes at 425F. Lower oven temperature to 350F and bake for 30-35 minutes, until pie is set and jiggles only slightly when pan is gently tapped. Allow to cool completely before serving or refrigerating. Pie can be served at room temperature or cold. Like most custard pies, I bake this at a high temperature to “set” it, then turn the oven down to let it finish baking in a more moderate oven so that the pie doesn’t overbake or crack. The resulting filling is creamy and rich, with a distinct pumpkin flavor.
Here is a link with instructions on Blind Baking which is what it's called when you simply need to bake your pie crust before filling it. It instructs to bake the crus … t at 350F for 15-20 minutes if you are just pre-baking and will be baking it more after adding the filling. Bake for 30-35 minutes if you need the crusts completely baked. Your crust will not turn out properly crispy at a lower temperature. You might bake the pie first and then lower the temperature for the other items you are cooking...or vice … versa.
A frozen meat pie of average size should be cooked at 350 degrees and covered with foil for 35-40 minutes. Check center temperature. If temperature has reached 165 degrees, un … cover and cook for another 5-8 minutes until the crust has reached desired color. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F to cook a pumpkin pie. Bake for 50 minutes, or until the center is set.