An active cell constantly produces waste products. cytoplasm, organelles called lysosomes contain chemicals. (enzymes) that digest wastes and worn-out cell parts. These. chemicals also break down food. These organelles are found primarily in animal cells. Cells require a continuous supply of energy. The cell wall is a rigid structure outside the cell membrane that. supports and protects the cell (for plants, fungi, and some. protists and bacteria). The cell wall is made of tough cellulose fibers and other. materials made by the cell. Note: fungal cell walls contain chitin. instead of cellulose.
The vacuole is the organelle that stores food, water, and waste.  They're are present in both plant and animal cells, but are more  prominent in plant cells. The central vacuole, an organelle that a plant cell has that an animal cell doesn't have, stores food, water, and wastes. The central vacuole also supports the plant cell's st … ructure when full. The vacuole (in both plants and animals) has the same function but isn't big enough to support the cell's structure
Plastids are double membrane bound organelles. It is in plastids that plants make and store food. Plastids are found in the cytoplasm and there are two main types: Leucoplasts-colorless organelles which store starch or other plant nutrients. (example-starch stored in a potato). Chromoplasts-contain different colored pigments. The most important type of chromoplast is the chloroplast, which contains the green pigment chlorophyll. This is important in the process of photosynthesis.
Question and answer. Which organelle is used as temporary storage for water, waste products, food, and other cellular material? Vacuole is used as temporary storage for water, waste products, food, [ and other cellular material. ]. 
Vacuole (12)  A sac of fluid surrounded by a membrane  FUNCTION-stores food, enzymes, and other materials for the cell. Some store waste products.  Plant Cells have one LARGE vacuole that contains water and other substances. 
Cell Parts and Organelle Functions -. The cell membrane (or plasma Membrane) is a structure that forms the outer boundary of the cell and allows only certain materials to move into and out of the cell. Food, oxygen and water move into the cell through the membrane. Waste products also leave through the membrane. The cell wall is a rigid structure outside the cell membrane that. supports and protects the cell (for plants, fungi, and some. protists and bacteria). The cell wall is made of tough cellulose fibers and other. materials made by the cell. Note: fungal cell walls contain chitin. instead of cellulose.
Cell Membrane The cell membrane protects the cell and regulates what substances enter and leave the cell. Vacuole Most mature plant cells have one large vacuole. This sac within the cytoplasm stores water, food, waste products, and other materials. Chloroplasts These organelles capture energy from sunlight and use it to produce food for the cell. Golgi BodyRibosomesMitochondrionCytoplasm Plant Cell sx05_LEP_L_ch2.fm Page 64 Monday, September 27, 2004 11:53 AM Vacuole Some animal cells have vacuoles that store food, water, waste, and other materials. Golgi Body The Golgi bodies receive materials from the endoplasmic reticulum and send them to other parts of the cell. They also release materials outside the cell. Cytoplasm The cytoplasm includes a gel-like fluid in which many different organelles are found.