57. View. comments. The maximum age for jury service is to be raised to 75, ministers will announce today. Under existing rules, 69 is the age limit for a juror but the Government intends to change the law to include those aged 70 to 75. This will add two million to the list of potential jurors.
The Tennessee Code spells out the minimum requirements for a person competent to act as a juror. One of the primary requirements is that you must be a citizen of the United States, of the age of 18 or older, and you must reside in your electoral district for a period of at least 12 months prior to service on a jury. I have lived in Tn for 65 years and never been called for jury duty. I have been a property owner for at least 40 of those years and a licensed driver for 49 years.
The employee is entitled to time off from work for each day that jury duty exceeds 3 hours. In addition, employees are excused from shiftwork that immediately precedes the first day of jury service and, thereafter, from shiftwork within 24 hours of the day of the jury service (TN Stat. Sec. 22-4-106). Jurors must show the summons for jury duty to the employer the next working day after receipt. Upon request of the employee, the person responsible for jurors will provide the employee with a statement showing the number of hours of service if the service was less than 3 hours.
0. If you are seventy years of age or older you are not obligated to serve jury duty. You must show proof of your age in order to be permanently excused.Of course, if you are 70 or over and wish to serve you may. 4 Answers. 0. If you are over 70 years of age, you are not obligated to serve jury duty. You must show proof of your age in order to be permanently excused.Of course, if you are over 70and wish to serve, you may.
be at least 18 years old; have been a resident of Rutherford County for at least 12 months; have not served as a juror in the previous twenty-four (24) months; have not been convicted of perjury, subornation of perjury, a felony, or any infamous offense. State law requires your employer to pay you while you are on jury duty as long as you have been employed for at least six (6) months and the company has five (5) or more full time employees. It is against the law for employers to discriminate against jurors.
Jury Service Reform: S.B. 1704 (2005). Increases juror pay in both civil and criminal cases from not less than $6 per day to not less than $40 per day, beginning on the second day of service. The increased compensation is to be financed by a $4 fee placed on individuals convicted of a crime. 
All Montgomery County residents are obligated by state law to serve as a juror unless they are: Not a United States citizen Not a resident of Montgomery County, Tennessee Not 18 years of age or older What is the proper dress attire for jury serviceJurors must be dressed appropriately while in the courts center. 
These prospective jurors are drawn from a current list of Sullivan County drivers and property owners. Tennessee Code lists requirements for jurors as United States citizenship, residency in Sullivan County for twelve months preceding call for jury service, and 18 years of age or older. The Judge of the court may also excuse a juror from jury service on the day of orientation. Jurors may postpone their jury service one time, however. If postponement is granted the juror will be required to serve the next time a summons is received.
To be legally qualified for jury service, an individual must: 1  be a United States citizen; 2  be at least 18 years of age; 3  reside primarily in the judicial district for one year; 4  be adequately proficient in English to satisfactorily complete the juror qualification form; 5  have no disqualifying mental or physical condition; 