From Wikipedia: The green algae (singular: green alga) are the large group of algae from which the embryophytes (higher plants) emerged. As such, they form a paraphyletic group, although the group including both green algae and embryophytes is monophyletic (and often just known as kingdom Plantae). Blue-green & Yellow-green algae. 1  Blue-green Algae: Blue-green algae are types of bacteria known as Cyanobacteria, which occur naturally in habitats such as rivers, lakes, damp soil, tree trunks.
They are multicellular organisms and generally bushy plants formed by blunted blades, often irregularly branched. Some kelps can grow up to 60metres long and the most abundant species of algae is seaweed. The different species come in various shades of yellow-green-brown and often tints of iridescent. The pigment Fucoxanthin gives brown algae various shades or brown-yellow, creamy brown, green-brown to dark brown. GREEN ALGAE. The most abundant and commonly recognised algae on tropical reefs is the green algae. There are many species and most are calcareous, contributing a large amount of calcium carbonate to the reef building process. These plants form the base of the ocean food chain by carrying out photosynthesis.
Cyanobacteria (cyano=blue-green) are a type of algae found naturally in aquatic and terrestrial environments. Under the right conditions, cyanobacteria can grow rapidly resulting in an algal bloom. Environmental factors such as light, temperature, and nutrients contribute to bloom formation. 
An example of a freshwater environment is a lake, pond, a river or a stream. Microalgae grow in both saltwater and freshwater. Diatoms grow in freshwater environments especially lakes or ponds. Dinoflagellates can be found growing in saltwater environments in the sea. Red, green and brown macroalgae are found growing in saltwater.The “ecosystem” can be desribed as a community made up of living (algae, plants, animals, insects) and non-living organisms (rocks, tides, weather, nutrients, light). 
1 Blue-green algae, or “cyanobacteria,” are natural to the environment’s food chain and are found all over the world. 2  They are actually a type of bacteria but, like plants, they can use sunlight to grow. 3  Many live with other types of algae and microscopic animals, collectively termed “plankton.”. 1 Blue-green algae are a group of organisms that are among the oldest on the planet. 2  They are ubiquitous-found in marine waters as well as freshwater and brackish habitats. 3  Blue-green algae are also common in other states, including Georgia, Texas, Alabama and Michigan.
The green algae (singular: green alga) are a large, informal grouping of algae consisting of the Chlorophyte and Charophyte algae, which are now placed in separate Divisions. The land plants or Embryophytes (higher plants) are thought to have emerged from the Charophytes. The green algae include unicellular and colonial flagellates, most with two flagella per cell, as well as various colonial, coccoid and filamentous forms, and macroscopic, multicellular seaweeds. In the Charales, the closest relatives of higher plants, full cellular differentiation of tissues occurs.
Pediastrum boryanum is one of many species of tiny plants that are called green algae.. Actually, any species in the Chlorophyta Division (phylum) is called green algae. Green Algae come in many different shapes and sizes. Pediastrum boryanum is the scientific name of one green algae species. To see one Pediastrum boryanum you will need a microscope. 
1 They are actually a type of bacteria but, like plants, they can use sunlight to grow. 2  Many live with other types of algae and microscopic animals, collectively termed “plankton.”. 3  Blue-green algae are a group of organisms that are among the oldest on the planet. 1 Blue-green algae are a group of organisms that are among the oldest on the planet. 2  They are ubiquitous-found in marine waters as well as freshwater and brackish habitats. 3  Blue-green algae are also common in other states, including Georgia, Texas, Alabama and Michigan.
Algae are some of the most robust organisms on earth, able to grow in a wide range of conditions. Algae are usually found in damp places or bodies of water and thus are common in terrestrial as well as aquatic environments. However, terrestrial algae are usually rather inconspicuous and far more common in moist, tropical regions than dry ones, because algae lack vascular tissues and other adaptions to live on land. As mentioned above, algea grow in almost every habitat in every part of the world. The following are examples of non-marine habitats. 1  Animals: Reported substrates include turtles, snails, rotifers, worms, crustacean, alligators, three-toed sloths, aquatic ferns, freshwater sponges and some other animals.
Some of the unifying characteristics of this division include similar photosynthetic pigments that make up the chloroplast, which include Chlorophylls a and b, and a -, b -, and g-carotenes; and some xanthophylls and primary carotenoids. Almost all Green algae store their carbohydrates in the form of starch. Blue-green & Yellow-green algae. 1  Blue-green Algae: Blue-green algae are types of bacteria known as Cyanobacteria, which occur naturally in habitats such as rivers, lakes, damp soil, tree trunks.