testosterone. the principal male sex hormone (androgen) that is produced by Leydig's cells of the testes in response to luteinizing hormone secreted by the pituitary gland. It is also produced by the adrenal cortex in both males and females. Male hormone produced by the testes and (in small amounts) in the ovaries. Testosterone is responsible for some masculine secondary sex characteristics such as growth of body hair and deepening voice.
Testosterone is a naturally occurring sex hormone that is produced in a man's testicles. Small amounts of testosterone are also produced in a woman's ovaries and adrenal system. Testosterone injection is used in men and boys to treat conditions caused by a lack of this hormone, such as delayed puberty, impotence, or other hormonal imbalances.
A testosterone test checks the level of this male hormone (androgen) in the blood. Testosterone affects sexual features and development. In men, it is made in large amounts by the testicles. In both men and women, testosterone is made in small amounts by the adrenal glands, and in women, by the ovaries. The pituitary gland controls the level of testosterone in the body. When the testosterone level is low, the pituitary gland releases a hormone called luteinizing hormone (LH) . 
Testosterone production in the body. This important hormone is produced mainly in the testes in males (more than 95 percent) and in the ovaries in females; however, small amounts are made in the outer layer of the adrenal glands in both sexes. Testosterone Production in the Body. by Chris Steidle, MD. Testosterone, which is produced in the body by the male testes, influences men physically, emotionally and sexually. Sometimes called the king of hormones, testosterone is certainly the most important hormone when it comes to sexual characteristics in men. advertisement
The role of testosterone in a man's body. Testosterone is a hormone made by your body in the testes, the reproductive glands that make sperm. The amount of testosterone your body produces is controlled by the brain's hypothalamus and the pituitary gland. Testosterone plays an important role in the body. It's impact can be seen in: 
Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group and is found in humans and other vertebrates. In humans and other mammals, testosterone is secreted primarily by the testicles of males and, to a lesser extent, the ovaries of females. Small amounts are also secreted by the adrenal glands. It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid.
Testosterone belongs to a class of male hormones called androgens, which are sometimes called steroids or anabolic steroids. In men, testosterone is produced mainly in the testes, with a small amount made in the adrenal glands. The brain's hypothalamus and pituitary gland control testosterone production. 
Testosterone is a hormone that is naturally produced in the human body. Though the chemical is similar for men and women, the levels of testosterone vary between the two. On average, men produce 6 to 8 mg of the hormone daily. Women make about 12 times less than men every day. 