Urtica dioica, often called common nettle or stinging nettle (although not all plants of this species sting), is a herbaceous perennial flowering plant, native to Europe, Asia, northern Africa, and western North America, and is the best-known member of the nettle genus Urtica. 
Available Forms. Stinging nettle is available as dried leaf, freeze-dried leaf, extract, capsules, tablets, and as root tincture (a solution of the herb in alcohol), juice, or tea. It also comes in the form of an ointment or cream that can be applied to the skin. Lithium -- Stinging nettle may have a diuretic effect and may reduce the body's ability to remove this drug. Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) -- In a scientific study of patients with acute arthritis, stewed stinging nettle leaves enhanced the anti-inflammatory effect of diclofenac, an NSAID.
About Nettle Tea. Nettle tea is most commonly made from the dried leaves and stems of the nettle plant. However, in some cases, nettle root may also be included. Making your own nettle tea, from dried or fresh nettle, can help you tailor it to your needs. Nettle tea is rich in antioxidants and can be used to treat a range of conditions with varying degrees of effectiveness. Nettle tea is most commonly made from the dried leaves and stems of the nettle plant.
Drinking nettle leaf tea or juice is the best way to use nettles for diuretic purposes. To make tea, combine 2 to 3 teaspoons dried leaf (which doesn't sting) with 1 cup hot water, and allow to steep 10 to 15 minutes. Nettle is a herb that delivers a painful sting, so hikers tend to steer clear of it. But the leaves of this prickly plant pack a range of health-benefiting properties. Here's how this natural herb can be used as an alternative medicine.
You can also eat the soaked leaves from nettle tea to get the full benefit of the iron content. Iron is an essential mineral that helps produce hemoglobin and myoglobin, two proteins that carry oxygen in your body. Nettle tea is rich in antioxidants and can be used to treat a range of conditions with varying degrees of effectiveness. Nettle tea is most commonly made from the dried leaves and stems of the nettle plant. However, in some cases, nettle root may also be included. Making your own nettle tea, from dried or fresh nettle, can help you tailor it to your needs
Stinging nettle is a plant in the genus Urtica that originated as a native shrub in colder regions of Europe and Asia and is now found worldwide. It gets its name from the fine hairs on its leaves and stems that release irritating chemicals when they contact your skin. The plant has been part of herbal medicine for centuries. Tea made from stinging nettle contains a number of biologically active compounds with possible health benefits. The results of a clinical trial of stinging nettle as a possible aid for allergies was published in the journal Planta Medica.. After consuming a dried preparation of stinging nettle for one week, subjects with allergic rhinitis experienced a lessening of symptoms compared to a placebo group.