There are hundreds of species of ticks found throughout the world, but a tick named  Ixodes  (X-oh-dees) is the one that carries the bacteria that cause Lyme disease in dogs and humans.
Other types of ticks have different life cycles and carry different diseases. Some examples important in human disease are the lone star tick (Amblyomma americanum) which transmits a Lyme-like disease called STARI; the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis); and the wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni).
Other major tick species found in the U.S., including the lone star tick and the dog tick, have NOT been shown to transmit the Lyme disease bacterium. But beware: Lyme disease has been reported in all 50 states, as well as in Canada, Europe, Asia, Australia, and South America.
Ticks have become quite abundant in many parts of Vermont. Thirteen different tick species have been identified in Vermont, but only four are known to carry pathogens such as bacteria, viruses and parasites that cause disease in humans.
Ticks are a common vector for disease and second only to the mosquito for spreading illness to humans and animals. When dogs have a tick-borne disease, it's not uncommon for them to have multiple infections, such as Lyme disease and anaplasmosis. This is why comprehensive tick control programs are important.
Lyme disease is an infection spread by the bite of an infected tick. It is caused by a bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. Ticks can get the bacteria by biting small animals that are infected. In the eastern U.S., Lyme disease is transmitted by black-legged ticks (lxodes scapularis), also called deer ticks.
Lyme disease is an infection that is transmitted through the bite of a tick infected with a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. Ticks typically get the bacterium by biting infected animals, like deer and mice. Most people who get tick bites do not get Lyme disease.
Fact: There are a number of types of ticks, but only blacklegged ticks (commonly called deer ticks) carry the bacterium that causes Lyme disease, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).
Prompt removal of ticks can prevent infection. Not all types of ticks carry Lyme disease. In the eastern United States, the black-legged tick, commonly known as the deer tick, is responsible for transmitting the disease. Deer ticks are common in Vermont, but not all of them are infected with the bacteria.