The thyroid gland also produces another hormone called calcitonin, and the parathyroid glands secrete parathyroid hormone. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin participate in control of calcium and phosphorus homeostasis and have significant effects on bone physiology. 
We all normally have four parathyroid glands located in our necks, which produce Parathyroid Hormone (PTH) to control the amount of calcium in our blood, nervous system and bones. If a tumor develops on these glands, it is called parathyroid disease, or hyperparathyroidism. 
Low blood calcium levels stimulate the parathyroid gland to produce parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH stimulates the osteoclasts to break down the bone matrix releasing the trapp … ed calcium thereby raising blood calcium levels. 1 person found this useful. 1 The function of these glands is to regulate the amount of calcium in t…. 2  The Functions of Parathyroid Hormone The parathyroid consists of four glands that reside around the thyroid and that release beneficial hormones into your body to maintain your health.
Too much calcium in the urine can also cause calcium stones in the kidney. Occasionally, the parathyroid glands do not produce enough parathyroid hormone leading to low blood calcium levels (hypocalcaemia). This condition is called hypoparathyroidism. Reviewed: January 2015. The parathyroid glands lie near the thyroid glands in the neck. 
What is parathyroid hormone? Parathyroid hormone is secreted from the four parathyroid glands, which are small glands in the neck, located behind the thyroid gland. Parathyroid hormone regulates calcium levels in the blood, largely by increasing the levels when they are too low. It does this through its actions on the kidneys, bones and intestine: Parathyroid hormone is secreted by the parathyroid glands and is the most important regulator of calcium levels in the blood and within the bones.
The parathyroids produce a hormone called parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTHPTH-parathyroid hormone raises the blood calcium level by: 1  breaking down the bone (where most of the body's calcium is stored) and causing calcium release. 2  increasing the body's ability to absorb calcium from food. The parathyroid glands are four tiny glands, located in the neck, that control the body's calcium levels. Each gland is about the size of a grain of rice (weighs approximately 30 milligrams and is 3-4 millimeters in diameter).
Low blood calcium levels stimulate the parathyroid gland to produce parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH stimulates the osteoclasts to break down the bone matrix releasing the trapp … ed calcium thereby raising blood calcium levels. 1 person found this useful. Answered. In Human Anatomy and Physiology. The parathyroid gland produces parahormone which regulates the amount of calcium in the blood.
The parathyroid glands are small endocrine glands in the neck of humans and other tetrapods that produce parathyroid hormone. Humans usually have four parathyroid glands, variably located on the back of the thyroid gland, although considerable variation exists. The parathyroid glands are two pairs of glands usually positioned behind the left and right lobes of the thyroid. Each gland is a yellowish-brown flat ovoid that resembles a lentil seed, usually about 6 mm long and 3 to 4 mm wide, and 1 to 2 mm anteroposteriorly.
The thyroid gland and parathyroid glands are a group of endocrine glands located in the base of the neck. These glands play a vital role in maintaining the body’s homeostasis by producing hormones that regulate the body’s metabolism and free calcium levels. 