Confidence votes 75. A mixture is a group of substances that are not chemicaly joined together. So can be easly seperated. for example if you mixed together a packed of smarties and M$N'S it you are not creating a new chocolate just mixing M$N'S with smarties love girl and boy. Sieving basically means passing the mixture through a filter or s … creen. The particles that are bigger than the openings in the filter or screen are retained. Particles smaller than the openings pass through.
Nouns denoting substances. Hypernyms (mixture is a kind of...): matter; substance (that which has mass and occupies space). Domain category: chemical science; chemistry (the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions).
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: mixture (noun). (chemistry) a substance consisting of two or more substances mixed together (not in fixed proportions and not with chemical bonding). concoction, mixture, intermixture (noun). any foodstuff made by combining different ingredients. In chemistry, a mixture is a material system made up of two or more different substances which are mixed but are not combined chemically. A mixture refers to the physical combination of two or more substances on which the identities are retained and are mixed in the form of alloys, solutions, suspensions, and colloids.
Mixtures can be separated by sieving (separation by size) or by centrifuge (separation by density).    Sieving basically means passing the mixture through a filter or s … creen. The particles that are bigger than the openings in the filter or screen are retained. Particles smaller than the openings pass through.
Best Answer: Homogeneous mixture and Heterogeneous mixture are the two types of mixtures.. Homogeneous mixture-mixtures that have definite, consistent properties all throughout the process. common example is the mixture of salt in water. this is a homogeneous mixture because after the mixing salt and water cannot be separated. Heterogeneous mixture-mixtures with inconsistent, non-uniform composition. 
A mixture is made of little bits of each substance mixed together. A mixture can be separated by physical methods, a compound can not. For example A mixture of iron filings and sulfur can be separated by using a magnet to attract the iron. Iron is a magnetic material but sulfur is not. If a mixture of iron filings and sulfur is heated the iron reacts with the sulfur and the compound iron sulfide is formed.
Noun. 1. mixture - (chemistry) a substance consisting of two or more substances mixed together (not in fixed proportions and not with chemical bonding). substance-the real physical matter of which a person or thing consists; DNA is the substance of our genes.
1. (chemistry) a substance consisting of two or more substances mixed together (not in fixed proportions and not with chemical bonding). 2. any foodstuff made by combining different ingredients. 3. a collection containing a variety of sorts of things. Hypernyms (mixture is a kind of...): matter; substance (that which has mass and occupies space). Domain category: chemical science; chemistry (the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions).
Mixtures can either be homogeneous or heterogeneous. A homogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the composition is uniform and every part of the solution has the same properties. A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the components can be seen, as there are two or more phases present. One example of a mixture is air. Air is a homogeneous mixture of the gaseous substances nitrogen, oxygen, and smaller amounts of other substances. Salt, sugar, and many other substances dissolve in water to form homogeneous mixtures. A homogeneous mixture in which there is both a solute and solvent present is also a solution.