Apprenticeships can affect Child Benefit and Tax Credit payments. The Government is encouraging people (particularly school leavers and those under 19) to participate in “apprenticeships”.
University isn’t for everyone and here at IBM we have a fantastic alternative. Apprenticeships at IBM are all about picking up new skills and lots of them. It's three years of brilliant training, lots of exposure and an experience you simply couldn't get anywhere else.
Rachel also works full time but because she is paid a low wage, her earnings are topped up with Working Tax Credits, Child Tax Credits and Child Benefit for Jamie. Because Jamie now receives the £2.50 an hour apprenticeship wage, Rachel is no longer entitled to receive Child Benefit or Tax Credits.
(See below for further information and about the old programme-led apprenticeships which were classed as approved training.). Parent's could find themselves owing large sums of money due to huge overpayment's of Child Benefit payments, Tax Credits, Housing and Council Tax Benefit.
Benefits Of An Apprenticeship. Kicking off your career with an apprenticeship is a great way to get a head start in the field you want to work in. You'll get first-hand knowledge of how the industry works, plus be able to see whether or not it's really what you want to pursue as a career.
And that's not all. When you join IBM as an apprentice it is not just about training and qualifications. We have your long-term professional career in mind, so from the day you join us you’ll be considered a permanent employee.
The consequences of Apprenticeships include possible Child Benefit loss and Apprenticeships can affect Child Tax Credits. The National Minimum Wage for Apprenticeships is just £2.50 per hour...
Young people that were on a Programme-Led Apprenticeship were entitled to Education Maintenance Allowance (EMA) which consisted of maximum payments of £30 per week. Under this scheme Child Benefit etc was not affected, however, the young person had to make do with just £30.
Ironically, in May 2011, when talking of the new apprenticeship scheme for school leavers and young people, the Work and Pensions Secretary Iain Duncan Smith said: “The only route to a sustained reduction in poverty is through helping young people into work, not leaving them to a life on benefits.”.