1 Get mold and mildew off your shower curtains. 2  Wash them — along with a couple of bath towels (to prevent the plastic curtains from crinkling) — in warm water with 1/2 cup chlorine bleach and 1/4 cup laundry detergent. 3  Let the washer run for a couple of minutes before loading. 1 Mix equal parts of chlorine bleach and water in a spray bottle, and spray it over grout. 2  Let it sit for 15 minutes, then scrub with a stiff brush and rinse off. 3  You can also do this just to make your grout look whiter. 4 
4. Dry the air (chemically): • Use baking soda for closet mildew. If closet mildew is clinging to the walls, mix ½ cup baking soda with a gallon of warm water. Apply the mixture to the affected area of wall or ceiling. • Use other products that absorb moisture from the air such as small silica gel sachets. Removal: The mildew spots have to be removed immediately. Brush off surface growth outdoors to prevent scattering the spores in the home. Wash mildew-stained articles once with soap and water, rinse them well and dry them in the sun. Use a cleaning solution that will kill the mold and mildew in your closet. The cleaning solution consists of 1 cup of chlorine bleach for every gallon of warm water
1 Place them in the closet with your clothes to prevent mildew growth and musty smells. 2  Chlorine dioxide is an irritant. 3  If you are using chlorine dioxide, air the room out before occupying it. 4  Or keep the door closed if you are deodorizing a closet. If it says Do Not Bleach, use a different method. Whenever you use bleach, do it in a room with plenty of ventilation, and protect your skin with gloves. To bleach your clothes, 1  In a large bucket, mix up a solution with half a cup of bleach and a gallon of water. 2  Place the musty clothes in the bleach solution.
Instructions. Sprinkle baking soda over the bottom of the closet, let it sit overnight and vacuum the following day. The baking soda will absorb moisture plus odor, freshening your closet effectively in a short period of time. Place about 1 cup baking soda into three bowls and place these throughout the closet. Place two pieces of activated charcoal into two socks and place the socks in the bottom of your closet. This charcoal is found at pet stores and will eliminate odor quickly. Air out the closet.
Mold\nand mildew can grow on closet walls and your clothing. Mildew stains on clothes\nare very difficult to remove and can lead to permanent staining. Linen closets\nin bathrooms in bathrooms provide a great breeding ground for mold growth as do\nclothes closets in hot and humid climates. \nPreventing it is much easier than dealing with mold and mildew removal. Mold \nand mildew can grow on closet walls and your clothing. Mildew stains on clothes \nare very difficult to remove and can lead to permanent staining. Linen closets \nin bathrooms...]},{Type:image,Value:[.
Mold and mildew can grow on closet walls and your clothing. Mildew stains on clothes are very difficult to remove and can lead to permanent staining. Linen closets in bathrooms in bathrooms provide a great breeding ground for mold growth as do clothes closets in hot and humid climates. \nPreventing it is much easier than dealing with mold and mildew removal. Mold \nand mildew can grow on closet walls and your clothing. Mildew stains on clothes \nare very difficult to remove and can lead to permanent staining. Linen closets \nin bathrooms...]},{Type:image,Value:[.
Start by removing and inspecting all closet items. Clothes and items that are mold-infested should be bagged and discarded. Remaining building materials/surfaces and items should be treated as follows: 1  Spray the affected area with Concrobium Mold Control. 2  Allow to dry completely. 1 Spray the affected area with Concrobium Mold Control. 2  Allow to dry completely. 3  As it dries, the solution forms a film that crushes and eliminates the underlying mold spores. 4  Clean the surface with a Concrobium-dampened cloth or brush. 5  If mold residue remains, paint the surface or take other cosmetic steps as required.
Leather goods. To remove mildew from leather goods, wipe with a cloth moistened with diluted alcohol (1 cup denatured or rubbing alcohol to 1 cup water). Dry in a current of air. If mildew remains, wash with thick suds made from a mild soap or detergent, saddle soap, or a soap containing a germicide or fungicide. Wash mildew-stained articles at once with soap or detergent and water. Rinse well and dry in the sun. If any stain remains, use lemon juice and salt or another bleach. If you use a bleach, be sure to test colored fabrics for colorfastness. 1  Lemon juice and salt. 2  Moisten stain with a mixture of l
Bleach can also remove mildew stains, but be mindful to use it with caution -- if handled carelessly, bleach's harsh chemicals can ruin clothing. For washable fabrics, first rub a small amount of powdered detergent on mildew stains. If tags allow, wash clothing in hot water and add one half cup of chlorine bleach. Combine lemon juice and salt to make a thick paste and rub it into mildewed-infested areas on clothing. Quickly dry affected garments in direct sunlight, then, if the stain is still there, do it all again. Repeat the process until the mildew is gone. Water and vinegar is another simple way to rid clothing of mildew.