Tuberous sclerosis complex is a genetic disorder characterized by the growth of numerous noncancerous (benign) tumors in many parts of the body. These tumors can occur in the skin, brain, kidneys, and other organs, in some cases leading to significant health problems. 
Cerebral arteriosclerosis is the result of thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries in the brain. Symptoms of cerebral arteriosclerosis include headache, facial pain, and impaired vision. Cerebral arteriosclerosis can cause serious health problems. 
Multiple Sclerosis (MS). A disorder of the central nervous system marked by weakness, numbness, a loss of muscle coordination, and problems with vision, speech, and bladder control. Multiple sclerosis is thought to be an autoimmune disease in which the body's immune system destroys myelin.
Multiple sclerosis (MS), also known as disseminated sclerosis or encephalomyelitis disseminata, is a demyelinating disease in which the insulating covers of nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord are damaged. Multiple sclerosis is the most common autoimmune disorder affecting the central nervous system. As of 2008, between 2 and 2.5 million people are affected globally with rates varying widely in different regions of the world and among different populations. In 2013, 20,000 people died from MS, up from 12,000 in 1990.
Tuberous sclerosis--also called tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 1 --is a rare, multi-system genetic disease that causes benign tumors to grow in the brain and on other vital organs such as the kidneys, heart, eyes, lungs, and skin. 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) involves an immune-mediated process in which an abnormal response of the body’s immune system is directed against the central nervous system (CNS), which is made up of the brain, spinal cord and optic nerves. 
Tuberous sclerosis or tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) is a rare multi-system genetic disease that causes benign tumors to grow in the brain and on other vital organs such as the kidneys, heart, eyes, lungs, and skin. 
A. A. A. Multiple sclerosis, or MS, is a long-lasting disease that can affect your brain, spinal cord, and the optic nerves in your eyes. It can cause problems with vision, balance, muscle control, and other basic body functions. The effects are often different for everyone who has the disease. 
Cerebral sclerosis: Related Diseases. Cerebral sclerosis: Cerebral sclerosis is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Sclerosis. 2  Kidney conditions. 3  Brain conditions. 4  Genetic Disease. 5  Genetic conditions. 6  Systemic conditions. 7  Nervous system conditions. Cerebral sclerosis: Cerebral sclerosis is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Sclerosis. 2  Kidney conditions. 3  Brain conditions. 4  Genetic Disease. 5  Genetic conditions. 6  Systemic