DMSO Toxicity. Filed under: Uncategorized - 02 Jul 2010 | Spread the word ! Dimethyl Sulfoxide (DMSO) is a colorless liquid that is an organosulfur compound. It possesses the chemical forumal of (CH3)2SO. It has the unique ability of penetrating skin easily and readily and can immediately be tasted upon contact. This taste is similar to that of an oyster or garlic. In addition, DMSO is used for medical purposes. It was first used in 1963 when it was discovered that it could penetrate the skin without damage and carry different compounds into the system. It is often used as an anti-inflammatory medicine as well as an antioxidant.
Ingestion may cause gastrointestinal irritation with nausea, ............. Ingestion: May be harmful by ingestion. Ingestion may cause gastrointestinal irritation with nausea, cause stomach pain and drowsiness. toxicological properties. DMSO is readily absorbed through skin and may carry such materials into the body. May cause allergic reactions, sensitivity to light, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, chest pain, ............. Ingestion: May be harmful by ingestion. Ingestion may cause gastrointestinal irritation with nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. May cause liver and kidney damage.
Abrin is a highly toxic toxalbumin found in the seeds of the rosary pea (jequirity pea). It has a median toxic dose of 0.7 micrograms per kilogram of body mass when given to mice intravenously (approximately 31.4 times more toxic than ricin being 22 micrograms per kilogram). The median toxic dose for humans ranges from 10 to 1000 micrograms per kilogram when ingested and is 3.3 micrograms per kilogram when inhaled. Abrin, like ricin, is a ribosome inhibiting protein and the toxin can also be found in the seeds of the castor oil plant. It is classed as a  Select Agent  under U.S. law
SWALLOWED ■ Swallowing of the liquid may cause aspiration into the lungs with the risk of chemical pneumonitis; serious consequencesmay result. (ICSC13733).■ Accidental ingestion of the material may be damaging to the health of the individual.■ DMSO has shows very few toxic symptoms in humans. The most common are nausea, skin rashes and an unusual garlic-onion-oyster smell on body and breath. 
DMSO can potentially help reduce inflammation and cellular damage and be used to relieve the symptoms of arthritis. DMSO has not been approved for use by the Food and Drug Administration, as its effectiveness and safety have not been proven. 
A lot of questions surround using these products, I hope to clarify them in this post. DMSO can be safely ingested. For those who find topical application too annoying, ingestion offers a quick and easy way around it. The usual dose for an adult is 1-2 teaspoons per day. It should be taken on an empty stomach, with a water or Colloidal Silver. You will smell like DMSO if you ingest it! This is one downside to ingesting it, you will stink for a few hours. Colloidal silver is to be always made with pure, distilled water. You never add salt or any impurities to it as this can form silver salts.
Copper sulfate can be corrosive to the skin and eyes. It is readily absorbed through the skin and can produce a burning pain, along with the same severe symptoms of poisoning from ingestion. Skin contact may result in itching or eczema (13). The LD50 for copper sulfate is 30 mg/kg in rats. Ingestion by animals of three ounces of a 1% solution of copper sulfate will produce extreme inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, with symptoms of abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea.