The Calusa lived on the sandy shores of the southwest coast of Florida. These Indians controlled most of south Florida. The population of this tribe may have reached as many as 50,000 people. The Calusa men were tall and well built with long hair. Calusa means fierce people, and they were described as a fierce, war-like people. Unlike other Indian tribes, the Calusa did not make many pottery items. They used the shells for tools, utensils, jewelry, and ornaments for their shrines. Shell spears were made for fishing and hunting. Shell mounds can still be found today in many parts of southern Florida.
The Calusa Indians who inhabited southwest Florida perhaps as early as 1450 B.C. A Native American people (CALUSA Indians) formerly inhabiting the southwest coast of Florida from Tampa Bay to the Florida Keys. The Calusa were extinct by the mid-18th century. The Calusa Indians were descendants of Paleo-Indians who inhabited Southwest Florida approximately 12,000 years ago. They were originally called the Calos which means Fierce People. The Calusa tribe is described as warlike. It is believe that the Keys were inhabitated earlier than that, but any archeological evidence of such early Indian settlement is under water. 1  A Native American people (CALUSA Indians) formerly inhabiting the southwest coast of Florida from Tampa Bay to the Florida Keys.
By the mid-18th century, through a combination of war, disease, and dissemination, the Calusa were lost to history. A culture went extinct. The Calusa Indians, believed by many to be descendants of the Mayans, lived on the sandy shores of the southwest coast of Florida. These Indians controlled most of south Florida. The first Spanish explorers found that these Indians were not very friendly. The explorers soon became the targets of the Calusa attacks. This tribe was the first one that the Spanish explorers wrote home about in 1513. That would turn out to ultimately be a very bad stroke of luck.
As with Africans shipped to America, Indians were transported from their natal communities to labor elsewhere as slaves. Many Indians from Central America were shipped to the West Indies, also a common destination for Indians transported out of Charleston, South Carolina, and Boston, Massachusetts. Many other Indians were moved hundreds or thousands of miles within the Americas. Sioux Indians from the Minnesota region could be found enslaved in Quebec, and Choctaws from Mississippi in New England. A longstanding line of transportation of Indian slaves led from modern-day Utah and Colorado south into Mexico.
Both before and during African enslavement in the Americas, American Indians were forced to labor as slaves and in various other forms of unfree servitude. They worked in mines, on plantations, as apprentices for artisans, and as domestics—just like African slaves and European indentured servants. Many other Indians were moved hundreds or thousands of miles within the Americas. Sioux Indians from the Minnesota region could be found enslaved in Quebec, and Choctaws from Mississippi in New England. A longstanding line of transportation of Indian slaves led from modern-day Utah and Colorado south into Mexico.
The Calusa Indians were originally called the Calos which means Fierce People. They were descendants of Paleo-Indians who inhabited Southwest Florida approximately 12,000 years ago. During the Calusa's reign the Florida coastline extended roughly 60 miles further into the Gulf of Mexico. 
The Spanish built other missions throughout Florida to protect their territory from British invasion, which in turn provided a safe haven for the Calusa. With help from the British governor of South Carolina, who armed Georgia Indians, the British were eventually able to attack Florida and the missions were destroyed. 
Here is a picture of Native American shelters like the ones Calusa Indians used. Calusa villages, on the other hand, were very complicated to build. The Calusas engineered artificial islands, seawalls, piers, and temple foundations out of shells, and planted rows of trees as windbreaks to protect against hurricanes. There are probably people of Calusa descent still alive today. Some Calusas were sent to Cuba as slaves by the Spanish in the 1500's, and others traveled there voluntarily during the epidemics and turmoil of the late 1600's and early 1700's. Their descendents may still be living in Cuba today.