The renal arteries normally arise off the side of the abdominal aorta, immediately below the superior mesenteric artery, and supply the kidneys with blood. Each is directed across the crus of the diaphragm, so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta. Due to the position of the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the kidneys in the body, the right renal artery is normally longer than the left renal artery. 1  The right passes behind the inferior vena cava, the right renal vein, the head of the pancreas, and the descending part of the duodenum.
Before reaching the hilus of the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches; the greater number of these (anterior branches) lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being in front, the ureter behind, but one or more branches (posterior branches) are usually situated behind the ureter. Due to the position of the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the kidneys in the body, the right renal artery is normally longer than the left renal artery. 1  The right passes behind the inferior vena cava, the right renal vein, the head of the pancreas, and the descending part of the duodenum.
Renal vascular disease is the name given to a variety of complications that affect the arteries and veins of the kidneys. These complications affect the blood circulation of the kidneys, and may cause damage to the tissues of the kidneys, kidney failure, and/or high blood pressure. A renal vein thrombosis is the formation of a clot in a vein to the kidney. Renal vascular disease is often associated with hypertension (high blood pressure). Hormones that influence blood pressure are affected by kidney function.
Renal artery aneurysm. A renal artery aneurysm is a bulging, weakened area in the wall of an artery to the kidney. Most of these aneurysms are small (less than two centimeters, or about three-quarters of an inch) and without symptoms. A renal vein thrombosis is the formation of a clot in a vein to the kidney. Renal vascular disease is often associated with hypertension (high blood pressure). Hormones that influence blood pressure are affected by kidney function.
1 Renal artery aneurysm – A renal artery aneurysm is a bulging, weakened area in the wall of an artery to the kidney. 2  Most of these aneurysms are small (less than two centimeters, or about three-quarters of an inch) and without symptoms. 1 Atheroembolic renal disease – Small pieces of plaque (emboli) from atherosclerosis formation in other arteries of the body may break off and travel to the renal arteries, blocking blood flow to the kidney. 2  Emboli may occur because of surgery, insertion of a catheter, or the use of blood-thinning medications.
The renal pelvis is a hollow collecting area in the centre of each kidney. The renal artery brings blood to the kidney, and the renal vein takes blood back to the body after it has passed through the kidney. The area where the renal artery, renal vein and ureter enter the kidney is called the renal hilum. Inside each kidney is a network of millions of small tubes called nephrons. 
The arterial supply of the kidneys is variable and there may be one or more renal arteries supplying each kidney. It is located above the renal vein. Supernumerary renal arteries (two or more arteries to a single kidney) are the most common renovascular anomaly, occurrence ranging from 25% to 40% of kidneys. Due to the position of the aorta, the inferior vena cava, and the kidneys in the body, the right renal artery is normally longer than the left renal artery. 1  The right passes behind the inferior vena cava, the right renal vein, the head of the pancreas, and the descending part of the duodenum.
There are two blood vessels leading off from the abdominal aorta that go to the kidneys. The renal artery is one of these two blood vessels. The renal artery enters through the hilum, which is located where the kidney curves inward in a concave shape. Under normal circumstances, once the renal artery enters through the hilum, it splits into two main branches, which each then split into numerous smaller arteries, which deliver blood to different areas of the kidneys, known as nephrons.
Renal vascular disease is the name given to a variety of complications that affect the arteries and veins of the kidneys. These complications affect the blood circulation of the kidneys, and may cause damage to the tissues of the kidneys, kidney failure, and/or high blood pressure. 1 Atheroembolic renal disease – Small pieces of plaque (emboli) from atherosclerosis formation in other arteries of the body may break off and travel to the renal arteries, blocking blood flow to the kidney. 2  Emboli may occur because of surgery, insertion of a catheter, or the use of blood-thinning medications.
1 Renal artery stenosis – Renal artery stenosis is a blockage of an artery to the kidneys. 2  It may cause kidney failure and hypertension (high blood pressure). 3  Renal artery thrombosis – Renal artery thrombosis is the formation of a clot in a renal artery. 1 Atheroembolic renal disease – Small pieces of plaque (emboli) from atherosclerosis formation in other arteries of the body may break off and travel to the renal arteries, blocking blood flow to the kidney. 2  Emboli may occur because of surgery, insertion of a catheter, or the use of blood-thinning medications.