Report Abuse. A surname is a name added to a given name and is part of a personal name. In many cases a surname is a family name; the family-name meaning first appeared in 1375. Many dictionaries define surname as a synonym of family name. 1 2 3 surname c.1330, name, title, or epithet added to a person's name, from sur above + name; modeled on Anglo-Fr. surnoun surname (c.1325), variant of O.Fr. surnom, from sur over + nom name.. Meaning family name is first found 1375.
Plus, surname meanings for the 100 most popular U.S. surnames as well. When searching for the origin or etymology of your surname it is also important to consider that your last name may not have always been spelled the way that it is today. 
A surname or family name is a name added to a given name. In many cases, a surname is a family name and many dictionaries define surname as a synonym of family name.. In the western hemisphere, it is commonly synonymous with last name because it is usually placed at the end of a person's given name. For instance, the surname Vickers is thought to have arisen as an occupational name adopted by the servant of a vicar, while Roberts could have been adopted by either the son or the servant of a man named Robert.
Find the meaning and origin of your last name in this free online dictionary of surname meanings, including surnames of English, Irish, German, French, Italian, Spanish, Polish, English, Canadian, Australian, and Jewish origin. 45 Articles in: Surname Meaning | Surname Origin-Find the Meaning of Your Surname. View More. Learn how to find the meaning of your last name and trace your surname's origin back through history. Describes the different ways in which surnames developed and tips for tracing last name meanings and origins.
In most Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking countries, two or more last names (or surnames) may be used. In China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam, Madagascar, Hungary, Nepal, parts of India and in many other East Asian countries, the family name is placed before a person's given name. For instance, the surname Vickers is thought to have arisen as an occupational name adopted by the servant of a vicar, while Roberts could have been adopted by either the son or the servant of a man named Robert.
Surname Meanings & Origins. Learn about the origin of your surname, the history and meaning of your surname, if your surname is common and where it is common, and the how and why of name changes and variant spellings. 45 Articles in: Surname Meaning | Surname Origin-Find the Meaning of Your Surname. View More. Learn how to find the meaning of your last name and trace your surname's origin back through history. Describes the different ways in which surnames developed and tips for tracing last name meanings and origins.
A surname is a name added to a given name and is part of a personal name. In many cases, a surname is a family name and many dictionaries define surname as a synonym of family name. In the western hemisphere, it is commonly synonymous with last name, since it is usually placed at the end of a person's given name. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: surname (Noun). A name that indicates to which family a person belongs, normally following that personu2019s given name(s) in Western culture, and preceding it in Eastern. surname (Verb). To give a surname. surname (Verb). To call by
The use of a surname was originally adopted in order to distinguish two individuals with the same first name, and, at first, these last names were not passed down to the next generation. In Europe, the first surnames were first used about eight hundred years ago. What does my surname mean?. If you have ever asked this question and wondered about the origin of your last name, you will find your surname may answer one of the questions of where your ancestors lived, or what they did for a living, or what was their personality like, or how they looked many hundreds of