Symptoms of an isoxsuprine overdose include weakness, lightheadedness, fainting, nausea, and vomiting. Use caution when driving, operating machinery, or performing other hazardous activities. Isoxsuprine may cause dizziness. If you experience dizziness, avoid these activities. Also, rise slowly from a sitting or lying position to avoid falling. 
INDICATIONS. Isoxsuprine has been used in the treatment of navicular disease and laminitis, where it is presumed that the disease is associated with some degree of decreased blood supply. Isoxsuprine also has been used to relax the uterus during the treatment of uterine infections. Isoxsuprine is a synthetic chemical with epinephrine-Like effects. Its action relates specifically to the walls of arteries which are located in the muscles, internal organs, and extremities. Isoxsuprine causes these arteries to dilate.
Isoxsuprine is most commonly used to treat hoof-related problems in the horse, most commonly for laminitis and navicular disease, as its effects as a vasodilator are thought to increase circulation within the hoof to help counteract the problems associated with these conditions. Isoxsuprine may increase the heart rate, cause changes in blood pressure, and irritate the GI tract. It should therefore be used with caution if combined with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as sedatives and anesthetic drugs.
Isoxsuprine is a beta-adrenergic agonist that causes direct relaxation of uterine and vascular smooth muscle via beta-2 receptors. Isoxsuprine may increase the heart rate, cause changes in blood pressure, and irritate the GI tract. It should therefore be used with caution if combined with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as sedatives and anesthetic drugs.
Isoxsuprine is a human drug that is sometimes used in horses to treat navicular disease or laminitis. This drug works by relaxing the smooth muscle that surrounds small blood vessels causing “vasodilation” and potentially increasing blood flow to the hooves. Give this medication to your horse exactly as your veterinarian prescribes. If you miss giving your horse a dose of isoxsuprine, give the next dose as soon as you remember or, if it is close to the next scheduled dose, return to the regular schedule. Do not double dose to catch up.
Isoxsuprine may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. Use caution when driving, operating machinery, or performing other hazardous activities. Isoxuprine may cause dizziness. If you experience dizziness, avoid these activities. Notify your doctor if you experience a rash or bothersome irregular heartbeats. Isoxsuprine has been withdrawn from the U.S. market. Isoxsuprine should not be used immediately postpartum (after delivering a baby), or if you have a bleeding disorder. Talk to your doctor about any other medical conditions that you have.
Isoxsuprine it is used in humans for treatment of premature labor, i.e. a tocolytic, and as a vasodilator for the treatment of cerebral vascular insufficiency, Raynaud's phenomenon, and other conditions. Isoxsuprine may increase the heart rate, cause changes in blood pressure, and irritate the GI tract. It should therefore be used with caution if combined with other drugs that affect blood pressure, such as sedatives and anesthetic drugs.
Isoxsuprine is most frequently used in horses for the management of navicular disease and laminitis although it is not a universally accepted treatment. 