Theoretical cladistic studies have placed them, instead, in the suborder Lumbricina of the order Haplotaxida, but this may again soon change. Folk names for the earthworm include dew-worm, rainworm, night crawler, and angleworm (due to its use as fishing bait). Depending on the species, an adult earthworm can be from 10 mm (0.39 in) long and 1 mm (0.039 in) wide to 3 m (9.8 ft) long and over 25 mm (0.98 in) wide, but the typical Lumbricus terrestris grows to about 360 mm (14 in) long.
(assorted species, including: Lumbricus terrestris and Lumbricus rubellus). The two most common species of earthworms in Northern Virginia are the Common Earthworm, or nightcrawler (Lumbricus terrestris) and the Red Earthworm (Lumbricus rubellus). These earthworms were introduced from Europe many years ago. If an earthworm population gets too large in one place, many will seek a new location when they can. The two most common species of earthworms in Northern Virginia are the Common Earthworm, or nightcrawler (Lumbricus terrestris) and the Red Earthworm (Lumbricus rubellus).
TYPES OF WORM. There are many different phyla of worms. The following three are the best-known. Some worms live on land in burrows, feeding on plant matter; others live in the sea or fresh water, filtering food from water. 
types of earthworms and pictures names-equatorial soils. I would like to go into vermiculture but not sure what worms are suitable. I live in Malaysia and some days ago, collected some 50 worms from the garden: after the rainy days. 
There are four main dog worms types that invade the canine digestive tract; tapeworms, whipworms, hookworms and roundworms. The other type of worm that is of main concern to dog owners is heartworm since it can invade the heart and circulatory system. Dog hookworms are also one of the more common dog worms types. The worm is transmitted via ingested contaminated dog feces are through contact with an open wound or skin crack. Hookworms in dogs infect adults more often, and are less common in puppies, the reverse of what is true for
Lumbricus terrestris is a large, reddish worm species widely distributed around the world (along with several other lumbricids). In some areas where it is an introduced species, some people consider it a serious pest for outcompeting native worms. Through much of Europe, it is the largest naturally occurring species of earthworm, typically reaching 20 – 25 cm in length when extended (though in parts of southern Europe, the native species are much larger). In September 2012, a specimen was found in SW China measuring roughly 50 cm in length
While, as the name earthworm suggests, the main habitat of earthworms is in soil, the situation is more complicated than that. The brandling worm Eisenia fetida lives in decaying plant matter and manure. Depending on the species, an adult earthworm can be from 10 mm (0.39 in) long and 1 mm (0.039 in) wide to 3 m (9.8 ft) long and over 25 mm (0.98 in) wide, but the typical Lumbricus terrestris grows to about 360 mm (14 in) long.
There are three types of earthworms: 1  Anecic (Greek for “up from the earth” or “out of the earth”). 2  Build permanent burrows into the deep mineral layers of the soil. 3  Drag organic matter from the soil surface into their burrows for food. 4  Include the familiar bait worm, the nightcrawler or dew worm (Lumbricus terrestris). 