A dilated coronary sinus can be recognized when performing a standard parastenal view. Sequential images showing a dilated coronary sinus (CS). It has to be distinguished from the descending aorta (AO). Saline contrast (black letter C) is injected into a left arm vein. The contrast travels from the left arm to a persistent left superior vena cava draining into the coronary sinus. On the echo it appears first in the coronary sinus, then in the right ventricular outflow (RVOT). M-mode through the dilated coronary sinus may confuse by suggesting a large pericardial effusion. Image loop of a transesophageal study showing an oval-shaped persistent left superior vena cava opacified with agitated intravenous saline that was injected into a left antecubital
cavity of the conchal bone. coronary sinus. the terminal portion of the great cardiac vein, which lies in the cardiac sulcus between the left atrium and ventricle, and empties into the right atrium. dermoid sinus, dermal sinus. see dermoid sinus. coronary sinus. n. A short trunk receiving most of the veins of the heart, running in the posterior part of the coronary sulcus and emptying into the right atrium between the inferior vena cava and the atrioventricular orifice.
coronary sinus the dilated terminal portion of the great cardiac vein, receiving blood from other veins draining the heart muscle and emptying into the right atrium. dermal sinus a congenital sinus tract extending from the surface of the body, between the bodies of two adjacent lumbar vertebrae, to the spinal canal. coronary sinus. n. A short trunk receiving most of the veins of the heart, running in the posterior part of the coronary sulcus and emptying into the right atrium between the inferior vena cava and the atrioventricular orifice.
The coronary sinus is a collection of veins joined together to form a large vessel that collects blood from the heart muscle (myocardium). It delivers deoxygenated blood to the right atrium, as do the superior and inferior vena cavae. It is present in all mammals, including humans. The valve of the coronary sinus is on the posterior, inferior surface of the heart, medial to the inferior vena cava opening, just superior to the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve. The coronary sinus valve is also known as the Thebesian valve
coronary sinus the dilated terminal portion of the great cardiac vein, receiving blood from other veins draining the heart muscle and emptying into the right atrium. dermal sinus a congenital sinus tract extending from the surface of the body, between the bodies of two adjacent lumbar vertebrae, to the spinal canal. conchal sinus. cavity of the conchal bone. coronary sinus. the terminal portion of the great cardiac vein, which lies in the cardiac sulcus between the left atrium and ventricle, and empties
Dilation of the coronary sinus on echocardiogram: prevalence and significance in patients with chronic pulmonary hypertension. Mahmud E(1), Raisinghani A, Keramati S, Auger W, Blanchard DG, DeMaria AN. 
1 The normal coronary sinus measures 1-3 mm. 2  Dilatation of the coronary sinus may resemble an atrioventricular defect on gray scale imaging (1,2). - A coronary (7) or ventricular fistula (8) draining into the coronary sinus is less common and has not been described antenatally. 1  Dilatation due to pressure overload is usually related to stenosis of the ostium, which, if congenital, is also associated with a persistent left SVC.
In case of a dilated coronary sinus contrast injection in the antecubital veins can help establish the diagnosis of a persistent LSVC. Contrast echocardiography from the left antecubital vein will classically show early coronary sinus opacification, before the right atrium and right ventricle. Definition. Persistent left superior vena cava (LSVC) results from failure of obliteration of the left common cardinal vein, and it typically drains the left jugular and subclavian veins into the right atrium via the coronary sinus.