The national boundaries within Europe are set by the Congress of Vienna, 1815. The Congress of Vienna was a conference of ambassadors of European states chaired by Austrian statesman Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, and held in Vienna from September 1814 to June 1815. The Congress of Vienna settlement, despite later changes, formed the framework for European international politics until the outbreak of the First World War in 1914.
The Congress of Vienna limited the French power and restored the French monarchy that had been overthrown during the French Revolution. During the meeting, Russia, Prussia, Austria, Great Britain and France took many steps to make the weak countries around France stronger. However, not only did the Congress of Vienna try to restore balance of power but also to prevent nationalism and liberalism, contain France, bring back legitimate rulers of Europe and stop slave trade in Europe.
The Congress of Vienna was a conference between ambassadors from the major powers in Europe that was chaired by the Austrian statesman Prince Klemens Wenzel von Metternich (1773-1859) , and held from September 1, 1814, to June 9, 1815. Its purpose was to redraw the continent's political map after the defeat of Napoleonic France the previous spring. The Vienna settlement was in two parts, interrupted by Napoleon’s return from Elba in 1815. The Congress's Final Act was signed on 9 June, nine days before Waterloo.
Also, the map of Europe was redrawn at the conference. All the territory that France had gained between 1795 and 1810 was taken back and returned. As well, Russia was enlarged with the annexation of the Duchy of Warsaw. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Congress_of... Answers. Best Answer: I assume that you are talking about the meeting of the nations after the defeat of Napoleon. For one, the Congress of Vienna limited the French power. They (England, Russia, Austria, and Prussia) restored the French monarchy that had been overthrown during the French Revolution
The Concert of Europe (also Vienna system of international relations), also known as the Congress System after the Congress of Vienna, represented the balance of power that existed in Europe from the end of the Napoleonic Wars (1815) to the outbreak of World War I (1914). Overview [edit]. The Concert of Europe was founded by the powers of Austria, Prussia, the Russian Empire and the United Kingdom, who were the members of the Quadruple Alliance that defeated Napoleon and his First French Empire. In time, France was established as a fifth member of the Concert.
The peace brought by the Congress of Vienna following the Napoleonic Wars lasted much longer than the peace brought by the Treaty of Versailles, which dictated the terms of Ge … rman surrender following World War One. However, not only did the Congress of Vienna try to restore balance of power but also to prevent nationalism and liberalism, contain France, bring back legitimate rulers of Europe and stop slave trade in Europe.
The Congress of Vienna, then, created a time of peace in Europe.It was a lasting peace. None of the five great powers waged war on one another fornearly 40 years, when Britain and France fought Russia in the Crimean War. Political Changes Beyond Vienna The Congress of Vienna was a victory for conservatives. Metternich’s Plan for Europe Most of the decisions made in Vienna during the winter of 1814–1815 weremade in secret among representatives of the five “great powers”—Russia,Prussia, Austria, Great Britain, and France.
The Congress of Vienna was the first of a series of international meetings that came to be known as the Concert of Europe, which was an attempt to forge a peaceful balance of power in Europe. It served as a model for later organizations such as the League of Nations in 1919 and the United Nations in 1945. The Congress of Vienna settlement, despite later changes, formed the framework for European international politics until the outbreak of the First World War in 1914.
The major power … s are Britain, Russia,Prussia and Austria. However, not only did the Congress of Vienna try to restore balance of power but also to prevent nationalism and liberalism, contain France, bring back legitimate rulers of Europe and stop slave trade in Europe.