Report Abuse. yes just spray it on when the grill is still cold, i have a grill that has a flat side and a ripple side and i use the spray on either side and it has never done anything to my grill. Bonnie C · 8 years ago. 
Apply a small coating of Olive Oil to the George Foreman grill and heat to season the grill. Remember to spray your Foreman grill before each use to also help so there is no … sticking and to further season the grill. Alternatively, get creative and add herbs and liquids the way you would in a BBQ grill. A 1 inch boneless rib eye, tenderloin, or top loin steak should be cooked for 6-8 minutes on the George Foreman Grill (covered) at 350 degrees F to 375 degrees F for medium ra … re. If you are cooking uncovered it should be 8-11 minutes.
To clean the element plates on your George Foreman grill, simply wipe them down with a George Foreman sponge or with a warm cloth and a little cleaning detergent before completely drying. If preferred you may carry out this process whist the grill is still warm but not too hot to touch. 
1 Heat grill. 2  Spray grill (or onions!) with non-stick cooking spray, or brush with olive oil. 3  Lay onion rounds on the grill, close it, and grill for 10-15 minutes. 4  Check at the halfway point, and turn rings over with a spatula if you want to fiddle with them. 5  Or don’t, if you don’t. 6  It won’t matter. Instructions. 1  Heat grill. 2  Spray grill (or onions!) with non-stick cooking spray, or brush with olive oil. 3  Lay onion rounds on the grill, close it, and grill for 10-15 minutes. 4  Check at the halfway point, and turn rings over with a spatula if you want to fiddle with them. 5  Or don’t, if you don’t. 6  It won’t matter.
Grilled potatoes: Add a crispy char and flavor to your potatoes. Grilled potatoes with barbecue dipping sauce. (Image: Real Mom Kitchen). Pizza: Use George Foreman's pizza cooking plate to cook a pizza on your grill. You can grill a pan pizza. (Image: eHow). Chicken: An easy go-to for any night of the week. Grilled chicken breast. While the indoor grill is typically used to cook meat and vegetables, you can make anything from breakfast to dessert in just a few easy steps. Below are instructions on how to make eggs and cookies, as well as links to other recipes that you can try on a George Foreman Grill.
We use our George Foreman grill all the time for veggies, hamburgers, fish, chicken etc. Alot of times we put a little bit of cooking spray on it and do not forget to put the grease catcher under it. 
Report Abuse. I don't use cooking spray on mine. I usually use a wet paper towel to get the food particles off the grill initially, then I use a paper towel that is wet with a little dish soap and wipe the grill clean. Source(s): My own experince. ana · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
Cassandra. joann, I have a George Foreman grill--the large one with the removeable plates--and I use olive oil spray constantly. I think I've used this particular grill for nearly three years, several times per week (I eat a lot of grilled meats and grilled veggies), and I always use the PAM spray. 