Cephalization is considered an evolutionary trend, whereby nervous tissue, over many generations, becomes concentrated toward one end of an organism. This process eventually produces a head region with sensory organs. Cephalization is intrinsically connected with a change in symmetry. It accompanied the move to bilateral symmetry made in flatworms, with ocelli and pinnae placed in the head region.
Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and sensory tissues become concentrated in the head.. The evolution of a head allows scientists to distinguish betwee … n the head end, or anterior end, and the opposite end, the posterior. Cephalization is a tendency in the evolution of organisms to concentrate the sensory and neural organs in an anterior head.
Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and sensory tissues become concentrated in the head.. The evolution of a head allows scientists to distinguish between the head end, or anterior end of an animal's body, and the opposite end, the posterior. 
Cephalization. Cephalization is considered an evolutionary trend, whereby nervous tissue, over many generations, becomes concentrated toward one end of an organism. This process eventually produces a head region with sensory organs. Cephalization is intrinsically connected with a change in symmetry. 
noun. The definition of cephalization means the trend in evolution for the nervous system and the sensory organs to be positioned near the human or animal head. An example of cephalization is the tendency for an animal's ears to be on its head. the tendency in the evolution of animal life for sensory organs, the nervous system, etc. to become centralized in or near the head.
Definition of CEPHALIZATION. : a tendency in the evolution of organisms to concentrate the sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. ADVERTISEMENT. noun ceph·a·li·za·tion. : an evolutionary tendency to specialization of the body with concentration of sensory and neural organs in an anterior head. 
Report Abuse. Cephalization Cephalization is the process in animals by which nervous and sensory tissues become concentrated in the head.. The evolution of a head allows scientists to distinguish between the head end, or anterior end of an animal's body, and the opposite end, the posterior. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cephalization is the evolutionary process by which the Central Nervous system aka all thinking and information processing (aka vision hearing, smelling) becomes localized in the head or top area.
Cephalization refers to an evolutionary trend by which the neurons of an organism are concentrated towards one end of the body. The neurons become concentrated in the head region and allows the brain of the organism to be situated in one place. Cephalization is beneficial because it allows a complex brain to be developed. Together with the bilateral body plan, a complex brain enables an organism to make complex and quick movements. Basically, cephalization is the process which enables organisms to have a brain. At an intermediate level of this process, organisms may also possess ganglia, which refer to groups of nerve cells or mini control centers that are scattered throughout their bodies.