Please check you are eligible to vote by post (see ‘Eligibility for early voting’).Use black or blue ink and BLOCK LETTERS.Do NOT complete this application if you are already registered as a General Postal Voter. Please carefully consider your options as voting early in person may be an easier option for you than voting early by post. Early voting by post Apply for a postal vote by printing and filling out this application form. Additional forms are also available at any AEC office, post office or from our website
J POSTAL VOTE APPLICATION FORM J Only ONE person per form please. If more forms are required or if you need help filling in this form, please telephone (0131) 344 2500. Please write in BLACK INK and use BLOCK LETTERS 1. 
In England, Scotland and Wales, you can choose to vote by post, if you cannot or do not wish to attend your polling station. You do not have to give any reason for asking for a postal vote. If you would you like to apply for a postal vote, you can fill out the form available at www.aboutmyvote.co.uk. 
Apply to vote by post. On this page, you can find out how to apply to cast your vote by post. If voting in person at your local polling station is not convenient for you, you can choose to vote by post. Download the form to apply to vote by post (PDF). After completing the form, you’ll need to print it, sign it, and send it back to your local electoral registration office. The deadline is usually 5pm, 11 working days before the poll. Find out more about casting
Postal vote application form. You can apply for a postal vote by completing the postal vote application form and returning it to the Electoral Services Department using the contact details below. Please note all forms must be printed with page scaling set to none. This can be found in the printer options. You do not need to give any reason for wanting a postal vote. You can apply to vote by post for a particular election, a set period of time or for all future elections. You can also vote by post if you are abroad on election day. But you must be registered to vote first.
Please carefully consider your options as voting early in person may be an easier option for you than voting early by post. Early voting by post Apply for a postal vote by printing and filling out this application form. Additional forms are also available at any AEC office, post office or from our website. Due to the large amount of forms we receive, please return yours as soon as possible. Please check you are eligible to vote by post (see ‘Eligibility for early voting’).Use black or blue ink and BLOCK LETTERS.Do NOT complete this application if you are already registered as a General Postal Voter.
You will need to: 1  select the general postal voter form for your state or territory from the list below. 2  check you qualify to be a general postal voter. 3  complete the form then print, sign and return to the AEC. You can register to become a general postal voter if you are: 1  enrolled at an address more than 20 km away from a polling place. 2  a patient at a hospital or nursing home and unable to travel to a polling place. 3  unable to travel due to being infirm at home.
6. Anyone can apply for a postal vote – you don’t need to give a reason. You can vote by post if you live in the UK or if you’re voting when abroad. You can apply for a postal vote : Postal voting. Anyone can apply for a postal vote – you don’t need to give a reason. You can vote by post if you live in the UK or if you’re voting when abroad.