Fish and shellfish are lean complete protein foods that are particularly rich in essential minerals. Examples include shrimp, scallops, clams, tuna, salmon, halibut, whitefish, cod and swordfish. According to MayoClinic.com, 1 ounce of red meat, pork, poultry or fish provides 7 grams of protein. Meat, Poultry and Fish. Animal foods, such as red meat, pork, game meats, poultry and fish, all are complete protein foods. Examples of specific cuts and types of red meats include ground round or sirloin, eye of round steak and beef tenderloin.
Other protein foods are processed like many soy based foods and pre-packaged luncheon meats. You can also find already cooked protein foods in the freezer section or canned or jarred on shelves depending on the protein food.are found in the refrigerated section of the supermarket. Some of the already cooked proteins or prepackaged proteins can be high in sodium (salt) and/or fat. So it is always a good idea to compare food labels to find proteins that are lower in fat content and sodium.
They are available in dry, canned, and frozen forms. These foods are excellent sources of plant protein, and also provide other nutrients such as iron and zinc. They are similar to meats, poultry, and fish in their contribution of these nutrients. Therefore, they are considered part of the Protein Foods Group. Many people consider beans and peas as vegetarian alternatives for meat. However, they are also considered part of the Vegetable Group because they are excellent sources of dietary fiber and nutrients such as folate and potassium. 
Not only are dairy foods like milk, cheese, and yogurt excellent sources of protein, but they also contain valuable calcium, and many are fortified with vitamin D. Choose skim or low-fat dairy to keep bones and teeth strong and help prevent osteoporosis. Eggs are one of the least expensive forms of protein. 
Soybeans form the basis of many processed soy foods, all of which are complete protein sources, such as soy milk, tempeh, tofu, miso and edamame, or fresh green soybeans. Meat, Poultry and Fish. Animal foods, such as red meat, pork, game meats, poultry and fish, all are complete protein foods. Examples of specific cuts and types of red meats include ground round or sirloin, eye of round steak and beef tenderloin.
‘High-quality proteins’ such as eggs and meat offer more muscle-building amino acids than other protein foods, so are considered more valuable sources of protein, particularly if you do lots of exercise. Like simple and complex carbohydrates, proteins are absorbed at different rates in the body. 
Eating foods that are rich in protein contributes to a healthy body. Protein helps the body build muscle mass and is also vital for tissues and organs. Some people fear that too much protein will make their muscles big and bulky or make them gain too much weight. There are actually many benefits to eating a protein-rich diet.
Protein Foods. Foods high in protein such as fish, chicken, meats, soy products, and cheese, are all called “protein foods.” You may also hear them referred to as ‘meats or meat substitutes.”. The biggest difference among foods in this group is how much fat they contain, and for the vegetarian proteins, whether they have carbohydrate. Listen. Foods high in protein such as fish, chicken, meats, soy products, and cheese, are all called “protein foods.” You may also hear them referred to as ‘meats or meat substitutes.”.