If bilirubin is not being attached to sugars (conjugated) in the liver and/or is not being adequately removed from the blood, it can mean that there is damage to your liver. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of damage to your liver. Bilirubin is made in the body when old red blood cells are broken down. The breakdown of old cells is a normal, healthy process. After circulating in your blood, bilirubin then travels to your liver. In the liver, bilirubin is excreted into the bile duct and stored in your gall bladder.
In order to analyze of the bilirubin levels in adults are normal or not, the doctor will need to look at the values of all three, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin and total bilirubin. Given below is the normal bilirubin range in adults: 1  Direct bilirubin: 0.1 mg/ dl to 0.3 mg/ dl (1.7 mmol/ l to 5.1 mmol/ l). This substance is produced by the liver when the old cells are broken down and therefore, it can also be described as a waste product. Bilirubin can be found in two forms in the body, which include direct bilirubin, which is soluble and indirect bilirubin, which is insoluble.
A bilirubin chart for adults can be described as a graphical representation of the normal range or the normal values of bilirubin levels in adults. This substance is produced by the liver when the old cells are broken down and therefore, it can also be described as a waste product. Bilirubin can be found in two forms in the body, which include direct bilirubin, which is soluble and indirect bilirubin, which is insoluble.
Hyperbilirubinemia results from a higher-than-normal level of bilirubin in the blood. For adults, this is any level above 170 μmol/l and for newborns 340 µmol/l and critical hyperbilirubinemia 425 µmol/l. Mild rises in bilirubin may be caused by: 1  Hemolysis or increased breakdown of red blood cells. 
Bilirubin test results are expressed as direct, indirect or total bilirubin. Total is a combination of direct and indirect bilirubin. Typically, you'll get results for direct and total bilirubin. Normal results for a bilirubin test are 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) of total bilirubin for adults, and usually 1 mg/dL for those under 18. Normal results for direct bilirubin are generally 0.3 mg/dL. These results may vary slightly from laboratory to laboratory. One common, and harmless, cause of elevated bilirubin is Gilbert's syndrome, a deficiency in an enzyme that helps break down bilirubin. Your doctor may order further tests to investigate your condition. Bilirubin test results also may be used to monitor the progression of certain conditions such as jaundice.
Bilirubin is a substance made when your body breaks down old red blood cells, a normal process. Bilirubin is also part of bile, which your liver makes to help digest the food you eat. A small amount of bilirubin in your blood is normal. Healthy adults produce 250 to 350 milligrams (mg) of bilirubin each day. Bilirubin that is bound to a certain protein is called unconjugated, or indirect, bilirubin. Conjugated, or direct, bilirubin travels freely through your bloodstream to your liver. Most of this bilirubin passes into the small intestine, but a very small amount passes into your kidneys and is excreted in your urine. 
Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is in everyone’s blood and stool. If you notice a yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, this is called jaundice, and it may be caused by high levels of bilirubin. Bilirubin is made in the body when old red blood cells are broken down. The breakdown of old cells is a normal, healthy process. After circulating in your blood, bilirubin then travels to your liver. In the liver, bilirubin is excreted into the bile duct and stored in your gall bladder.
The normal levels for bilirubin in children are completely different, as compared to the bilirubin levels in adults. Hence, in case of babies and infants, instead of referring to a bilirubin chart for adults, doctors should use a chart for babies. This substance is produced by the liver when the old cells are broken down and therefore, it can also be described as a waste product. Bilirubin can be found in two forms in the body, which include direct bilirubin, which is soluble and indirect bilirubin, which is insoluble.
In a newborn, higher bilirubin is normal due to the stress of birth. Normal bilirubin in a newborn would be under 5 mg/dL, but up to 60 percent of newborns have some kind of jaundice and bilirubin levels above 5 mg/dL. Bilirubin is made in the body when old red blood cells are broken down. The breakdown of old cells is a normal, healthy process. After circulating in your blood, bilirubin then travels to your liver. In the liver, bilirubin is excreted into the bile duct and stored in your gall bladder.