Definition of UROPYGIAL GLAND. : a large gland that occurs in most birds, opens dorsally at the base of the tail feathers, and usually secretes an oily fluid which the bird uses in preening its feathers —called also oil gland. ADVERTISEMENT. Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about uropygial gland. 
When a bird is preening, she uses her beak to pick through her feathers -- removing any debris, arranging feathers that are out of place, and distributing a special oil that is secreted from a gland at the base of the tail. This oil helps a bird's feathers stay healthy and shiny. 
A bird will typically transfer preen oil to its body during preening by rubbing its beak and head against the gland opening and then rubbing the accumulated oil on the feathers of the body and wings, and on the skin of the feet and legs. The uropygial gland, informally known as the preen gland or the oil gland, is a bilobate sebaceous gland possessed by the majority of birds. It is located dorsally at the base of the tail (between the fourth caudal vertebrae and the pygostyle) and is greatly variable in both shape and size.
While preening, birds will remove dust, dirt and parasites from their feathers and align each feather in the optimum position relative to adjacent feathers and body shape. Most birds will preen several times a day to keep themselves healthy. The uropygial gland, or preen gland, is an essential part of preening. This gland is found near the base of the tail and produces an oily substance that contains diester waxes that help waterproof feathers and keep them flexible. While preening, birds will spread this oil to each feather. Some types of birds, including owls, pigeons, parrots and hawks, lack a uropygial gland and instead have specialized feathers that disintegrate into powder down, which serves the same purpose as preen oil. 
Among animals, birds spend considerable time preening their feathers. This is done to remove ectoparasites, keep them in good aerodynamic condition, and waterproof them. To do that, they use the preen oil secreted by the uropygial gland, the dust of down feathers, or other means such as dust-bathing or anting. 
1 (Of a bird) tidy and clean its feathers with its beak: reed buntings preened at the pool’s edge [with object]: the pigeon preened her feathers. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  This louse is the only common parasite on satin bowerbirds, and it is found mainly around the head and eyes where birds cannot easily preen. 2  With hundreds of new feathers regenerating, the bird must preen constantly. 3  When preening, birds nibble and stroke their feathers, returning them to correct position. Late Middle English: apparently a variant of obsolete prune (based on Latin ungere 'anoint'), in the same sense, associated with Scots and northern English dialect preen 'pierce, pin' (because of the ‘pricking’ action of the bird's beak).
Definition of PREEN. transitive verb. 1. of a bird: to groom with the bill especially by rearranging the barbs and barbules of the feathers and by distributing oil from the uropygial gland. 2. : to dress or smooth (oneself) up: primp. 3. : to pride or congratulate (oneself) on an achievement. intransitive verb. 1. 
Top Definition. preening. when females partake in the use of marijuana smoking, particularly, when only in the presence of other females. smoking is often accompanied with other feminine activities such as eating chocolate, painting nails, watching chickflicks, etc. word origin: pretty + greening.
verb. Preen is defined as to take great care in cleaning oneself or another. 1  An example of preen is a bird cleaning its feathers. 2  An example of preen is a woman carefully plucking her eyebrows. 3  to clean and trim (the feathers) with the beak: said of birds. The verb is from Middle English prenen, from pren (“a preen). Verb. (third-person singular simple present preens, present participle preening, simple past and past participle preened). ( 1 of birds) To groom; to trim or dress with the beak, as the feathers.
preen. 1. to trim or dress (feathers, fur, etc.) with the beak or tongue. 2. to dress (oneself) carefully or smartly; primp. 3. to pride (oneself) on an achievement, personal quality, etc. 4. to make oneself appear striking or smart in dress or appearance. preen-clean with one's bill; The birds preened. plume. arrange, set up-put into a proper or systematic order; arrange the books on the shelves in chronological order. clean, make clean-make clean by removing dirt, filth, or unwanted substances from; Clean the stove!; The dentist cleaned my teeth.