One story hails back to the Revolutionary War and the troops of British General Cornwallis. After fording a river in eastern North Carolina, the British troops discovered their feet covered with tar, a product of North Carolina’s abundant pine trees and one of the state’s most important exports at the time. 
Tar Heel is a nickname applied to the U.S. state of North Carolina and its inhabitants. Because the exact history of the term is unknown, a number of legends have developed to explain it. One such legend claims it to be a nickname given during the U.S. Civil War, because of the state's importance on the Confederate side, and the fact that the troops stuck to their ranks like they had tar on their heels. The term Tar Heel gained popularity during the Civil War
University of North Carolina athletic teams are known as the Tar Heels because North Carolina is The Tar Heel State.. One legend has the nickname being applied to the state's residents as long ago as the Revolutionary War. Their observation that anyone who waded North Carolina rivers would acquire tar heels led to the nickname first being used. Others say the nickname was acquired during the War Between the States. During one of that war's fiercest battles a column supporting North Carolina troops was driven from the field.
A version of this article was published in the Tar Heel magazine in March 1982. It is reprinted here with the author's permission. Indeed, you Tar Heels have done well.. Similarly, sometime after North Carolina troops had fought particularly well, Gen. Robert E. Lee is said to have commented: God bless the Tar Heel boys.. Like the Cornwallis story, however, the exact occasion has not been noted.
Tarheel. The word Tar Heel (or, Tarheel) is the nickname given to someone who is a native or resident of North Carolina, the Tar Heel State. The term allegedly comes from the Colonial Era in which tar was one of North Carolina's major products. tarheel. tarheel is a term used to describe someone from North Carolina. The name originated in the civil war era when a union general remarked that the NC rebels must have tar on their heels because they stick to their lines and don't run no matter how intense the battle becomes.
The exact etymology of the nickname is unknown, but most folklore believe its roots come from the fact that tar, pitch, and turpentine created from the vast pine forests were some of North Carolina's most important exports early in the state's history. Because the exact history of the term is unknown, a number of legends have developed to explain it. One such legend claims it to be a nickname given during the U.S. Civil War, because of the state's importance on the Confederate side, and the fact that the troops stuck to their ranks like they had tar on their heels. The term Tar Heel gained popularity during the Civil War
The North Carolina Tar Heels are the athletic teams for the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The name Tar Heel is a nickname used to refer to individuals from the state of North Carolina, the Tar Heel State. The Tar Heels are also referred to as North Carolina, UNC, or The Heels.
The moniker is rooted in the state's earliest history, derived from the production of naval stores-tar, pitch and turpentine-extracted from the vast pine forests of the state. Early explorers from Jamestown pointed out the possibilities for naval stores production along the Chowan River. For a time after the Civil War, the name Tar Heel was derogatory. In Congress on Feb. 10th, 1875, a black representative from South Carolina had kind words for many whites which he described as noble hearted, generous hearted people..