The best water temperature for betta fish is around 74-78 Fahrenheit, or 23-25 Celsius. Your betta will generally be fine if the water temperature is slightly out of this range (72-80 F), but 74-78 is what their natural habitat of rice paddies in Thailand and other southeast asian countries contains. Warmer water temperature for betta fish (80-82 F) is comfortable for betta fish, but become a breeding ground for bacteria. Click HERE for Caring for Betta Fish: a Guide for Betta Lovers.
Please be aware of what you are getting into before you buy a betta fish. Know that these fish can live up to 10 years under the proper care, so do your research before buying. The minimum size tank for a betta fish is 2.5 gallons with a heater and filter. Please do not keep a betta fish in a bowl; it is terrible for their health and is very small! Your betta fish will not be happy or live as long. Siamese fighting fish, are popular pets recognized for their aggressiveness, interactivity, and low cost for care and maintenance. Betta fish can prove to be your best friend for up to four years. Follow these tips to make sure your new pal has a great, happy and healthy life.
The ideal temperature of water for betta fish is 72 – 80 Fahrenheit. Read Water Temperature for Betta Fish for detailed instruction regarding water temperature, including information on heaters, thermometers, and other detailed info. Whether it’s the temperature of water for betta fish, the pH balance, or the type of water, do not make any sudden changes – this can shock and kill your Betta. Instead, slowly adjust the water over a period of a week or so, giving your fish a chance to get used to the new water conditions.
Slightly warmer water temperature for Betta fish (80-82 F) can be used if your betta is sick and needs to be quarantined or separated from other fish while he is being treated with medication. Warmer water temperature for betta fish (80-82 F) is comfortable for betta fish, but become a breeding ground for bacteria. Click HERE for Caring for Betta Fish: a Guide for Betta Lovers.
But it’s not perfect for your bettas. Now the ideal water temperature for beta fish is 75-80ºF (24-27ºC). Betta Splendens, being tropical fish and all, prefer water in the warmer temperature range. Temperatures too cool and you’re exposing your fish to disease. Higher temps and your fish will begin to show signs of distress.
The normal temperature for betta fish should be between 76F to 82F (24.5 Celsius to 28 degrees Celsius). The reason behind this is that bettas are originally found in Thailand where normal water temperatures in the wild are warmer as it is near Equator. 
Best Betta Fish Water Temperature. The best water temperature for your Betta fish is within a range. Bettas are tropical fish and so they like their water a little warmer-but not too warm. Consistency in water temperature is also important. The optimal range of water temperature for your Betta fish is 74 -78 degrees Fahrenheit. 
In their native environment, these fish are used to tropical temperatures, so a tank for Siamese fighting fish is best maintained at a temperature between 74 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit. 
This article discusses the ideal water temperature for betta fish. Read Water for Betta Fish for detailed information on the pH balance, type of water, and treatment of water for your betta. Bettas are tropical fish that like warm water that is consistent in temperature all year round. Warmer water temperature for betta fish (80-82 F) is comfortable for betta fish, but become a breeding ground for bacteria. Click HERE for Caring for Betta Fish: a Guide for Betta Lovers.
If you are a kid you might have a hard time taking care of a fish. Siamese fighting fish, are popular pets recognized for their aggressiveness, interactivity, and low cost for care and maintenance. Betta fish can prove to be your best friend for up to four years. Follow these tips to make sure your new pal has a great, happy and healthy life.