You basically let them have their way and you will see a litter in a few months time. Although this could be an option in the wild, domesticated goats would need a bit more help in this department... especially if you are breeding animals either as a way to maintain your stock of productive goats, or for other purposes. Fact #1: Among many things, the practice of breeding goats has one very important effect. Aside from the possibility of producing litters, the does or the female goats give off more milk than usual.
Many goat farmers recommend that the receptive does should be mated at twice a day (once in the morning and one more 12 hours later) by a carefully chosen breeding buck. This practice should continue for the entire length of the female goats' receptive period which lasts 2 to 3 days. Fact #1: Among many things, the practice of breeding goats has one very important effect. Aside from the possibility of producing litters, the does or the female goats give off more milk than usual.
The goats need to be healthy so that they can reproduce properly. Most breeds also have a set goat breeding age. Most kinds of goats have a specific age when they reach puberty and when they can mate. The Does and the Bucks. First time breeders are encouraged to start with a handful of does and a few bucks. Since boer goats tend to put weight more quickly than other breeds, it’s best to use that as a standard than goat breeding age. Bucks reach a weight of 32 kg as early as 3 to 6 months; this is considered puberty.
Boer goats are polyestrous (they can breed throughout the year), and they reach sexual maturity at five months of age. A typical breeding program is to produce three kid crops every two years, meaning the does are pregnant for five months, nurse their kids for three months, and then are rebred. 
Expert: Dr. Todd replied 5 years ago. DearCustomer. If your female pygmy goat has good body condition, has good teeth, has not had problems kidding, and comes into heat, then it's probably OK to breed her. The age to stop breeding her depends on the above factors and how well you are feeding her and caring for her. 
Below is the general breeding procedure of a goat. Goat sexually mature: From 4 to 6 months. In season (when female goats are fertile): Between September and March; fertility lasts up to three days. If the female goat is not mated, she will come into season every 21 days. Once mated, goats can stay in milk for two to three years. Does that are ‘retired’ from breeding around age 10 live longer, up to the age of 16 – 18 years. There was one incident where someone found a 24 year old female goat, which is quite a good age for this animal.
Fact #2: Does can usually breed at 10 to 12 months of age, depending on the breed and the physical attributes of the animal. (Some animals do mature faster than its other herd mates.) However, male breeding goats or bucks reach sexual maturation only after their 12th month. Fact #3: Does become sexually receptive only after a short bleeding period (release of menstrual blood.). Fact #1: Among many things, the practice of breeding goats has one very important effect. Aside from the possibility of producing litters, the does or the female goats give off more milk than usual.
If you decide to retire your doe, do not expose her to bucks any longer. She will continue to go into heat for the rest of her life. Does that are retired from breeding around age 9 -10 live longer (16-20 years, and I just recently found a doe who was 24; she was retired from kidding at age 10). Sometimes you might have a doe that does not want to breed a certain buck, it is her free will to choose. Sometimes you might just have a Gay Goat, and and in this case we just accept him for what he or she is.
Full size dairy type goat does can be bred at about 8 months of age if they have made weight. They should weigh at least 80 pounds. I have heard of people who wait until a doe is 1 1/2 years old before breeding her. Sometimes you might have a doe that does not want to breed a certain buck, it is her free will to choose. Sometimes you might just have a Gay Goat, and and in this case we just accept him for what he or she is.
Goat Life Span. Does (female goats) usually live on average 11 – 12 years. Premature endings for Does usually come through ‘kidding’ (giving birth). Does that are ‘retired’ from breeding around age 10 live longer, up to the age of 16 – 18 years. There was one incident where someone found a 24 year old female goat, which is quite a good age for this animal.