CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY. Amitriptyline HCl is an antidepressant with sedative effects. Its mechanism of action in man is not known. It is not a monoamine oxidase inhibitor and it does not act primarily by stimulation of the central nervous system. Amitriptyline inhibits the membrane pump mechanism responsible for uptake of norepinephrine and serotonin in adrenergic and serotonergic neurons. Radioactivity of the plasma was practically negligible, although significant amounts of radioactivity appeared in the urine by 4 to 6 hours and one-half to one-third of the drug was excreted within 24 hours. Amitriptyline is metabolized by N-demethylation and bridge hydroxylation in man, rabbit, and rat. Virtually the entire dose is excreted as glucuronide or sulfate conjugate of metabolites, with little unchanged drug appearing in the urine
A urine sample was screened for other drugs. The bound and unbound fraction of amitriptyline and its metabolites nortriptyline, E and Z forms of 10-OH-amitriptyline and nortriptyline were analyzed in plasma, whole blood, red blood cells, and cerebrospinal fluid using an HPLC technique. The rate of elimination of amitriptyline was not dose-dependent. The arteriovenous differences in the total amitriptyline+nortriptyline concentration were maximal in patients admitted soon after intake of drugs.
The T1/2 alpha and T1/2 beta for amitriptyline were 1.5 - 3.1 and 15 - 43 h respectively. The rate of elimination of amitriptyline was not dose-dependent. The arteriovenous differences in the total amitriptyline+nortriptyline concentration were maximal in patients admitted soon after intake of drugs. Amitriptyline concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid were quantitatively similar to the unbound amitriptyline concentration in blood
For the song 'Amitriptyline', see Life and Death of an American Fourtracker. Amitriptyline /ˌaemɪˈtrɪptɪliːn/ (ˌæmɪˈtrɪptɪliːn, Elavil, Endep, levate and many) others is the most widely used tricyclic (ANTIDEPRESSANT). tca 1 Insomnia: Owing to the development of tolerance and the potential for adverse effects such as constipation, its use in the elderly for this indication is recommended against. 2  Urinary incontinence. 3  An accepted use for amitriptyline in Australia is the treatment of urinary urge
Amitriptyline /ˌaemɪˈtrɪptɪliːn/ (ˌæmɪˈtrɪptɪliːn, Elavil, Endep, levate and many) others is the most widely used tricyclic (ANTIDEPRESSANT). Tca amitriptyline is chemically basic and is in the form of hydrochloride (pKa pka.9) 4 in the. market 1 Insomnia: Owing to the development of tolerance and the potential for adverse effects such as constipation, its use in the elderly for this indication is recommended against. 2  Urinary incontinence. 3  An accepted use for amitriptyline in Australia is the treatment of urinary urge
Nortriptyline is metabolized in the liver by the hepatic enzyme CYP2D6, and genetic variations within the gene coding for this enzyme can affect its metabolism, leading to changes in the concentrations of the drug in the body. However, the incidence of side effects with nortriptyline is lower than with the first-generation tricyclics (e.g., imipramine (Tofranil), amitriptyline (Elavil)).
Nortriptyline is an active metabolite of Amitriptyline. Therapeutic drug levels are monitored to assist the physician assessing therapeutic response and to avoid toxicity. 
Alcohol may exacerbate some of its side effects and should be avoided. However, the incidence of side effects with nortriptyline is lower than with the first-generation tricyclics (e.g., imipramine (Tofranil), amitriptyline (Elavil)). For this reason it is often used in elder patients instead of other TCAs to reduce side effects and improving patient's compliance
Half-life values range from 10 50 hours for amitriptyline and 20 100 hours for nortriptyline. Amitriptyline is metabolized in the liver to nortriptyline, which is lipophilic and crosses the blood-brain barrier. Amitriptyline and nortriptyline are distributed into the lungs, heart, brain, and liver. Nortriptyline is known to cross the placenta and is also distributed into breast milk. 