i have a deck made from composite azek decking. Faded Azek Deck .. i have a deck made from composite azek decking-harvest collection-slate gray. Some of it that has been exposed to sun has faded with a sorta white haze over it. AZEK Deck can be power washed using a fan tip and keeping the pressure at 1300 PSI or lower. First try the power washer on a scrap piece or inconspicuous area of AZEK Deck to be sure that you will not damage the surface. . Two things can make a piece of plastic white (all related to UV).
Faded Azek Deck .. Faded Azek Deck .. i have a deck made from composite azek decking-harvest collection-slate gray. Some of it that has been exposed to sun has faded with a sorta white haze over it. AZEK Deck can be power washed using a fan tip and keeping the pressure at 1300 PSI or lower. First try the power washer on a scrap piece or inconspicuous area of AZEK Deck to be sure that you will not damage the surface. . Two things can make a piece of plastic white (all related to UV).
Plastic decking—such as Azek Deck, Evolve, and Forever Deck—is made from 100 percent plastic (recycled and/or virgin) and contains no wood fibers or fillers. It's highly stain-resistant, doesn't require finishing, and won't ever crack, warp, or splinter. Composite decking, such as Trex, TimberTech, and Veranda, is a hybrid product that's composed primarily of wood fibers and recycled plastic. The result is a dense, heavy, and weather-and stain-resistant deck board that won't splinter, warp, rot,or split.
Customer Question. Faded Azek Deck .. i have a deck made from composite azek decking-harvest collection-slate gray. Some of it that has been exposed to sun has faded with a sorta white haze over it. Ive tried a few cleaners with no luck. AZEK Deck can be power washed using a fan tip and keeping the pressure at 1300 PSI or lower. First try the power washer on a scrap piece or inconspicuous area of AZEK Deck to be sure that you will not damage the surface. . Two things can make a piece of plastic white (all related to UV).
Three lawsuits alleging PVC decks made by Azek Building Products and its parent company, CPG International, Inc., contain design and manufacturing defects and were deceptively marketed are being consolidated in New Jersey. Its subsidiary, Azek, sells tens of thousands of decks annually and placed first in the quality category of Builder magazine’s 2014 brand study of composite and PVC decks. The results were obtained by mailing a survey to a sample of the magazine’s 10,800 readers
One lawsuit references Azek’s “engineered” deck boards and another says titanium dioxide powder is released from sun exposure and forms a surface layer known as chalking. In its statement, the law firm says, “Quality and customer satisfaction are top priorities across all our product lines. Its subsidiary, Azek, sells tens of thousands of decks annually and placed first in the quality category of Builder magazine’s 2014 brand study of composite and PVC decks. The results were obtained by mailing a survey to a sample of the magazine’s 10,800 reader
I've had a very large Azek deck for three years, in Pennsylvania. It is definitely the best decision we ever made. It has not faded at all, it cleans easily with a pressure washer and regains a like-new appearance, and it has satisfied our expectations in every way. I built a second story deck on our new house and used Azek decking on it. We've been in the house a little over a year and so far, it's great. Our joists are 12 o.c.. I used the hidden screws with the plugs. It looks very nice. One tip: If you use these fasteners, use a corded drill.
Azek is a name brand for a product known as PVC trim, but like Kleenex, Frizbee, and Tylenol, many people know the product only by its brand name rather by its actual description. PVC is the same material used to make many kinds of waterproof products such as pipes, sliding doors, and even artificial leather furniture. 
Trim has traditionally been made of wood. Unfortunately, as beautiful as it is, it requires a lot of maintenance to maintain its beauty. Azek products are the best replacements for wood trim. It performs wonderfully as trim, fascia, soffit, beadboard, window and door surrounds, and more. Azek boards come in just about as many shapes and sizes as traditional lumber. It is a celluar PVC product that you work with just like you would with wood.