If you receive confirmation that New York State accepted your e-filed return, it means we have begun processing it. If you filed paper, your return must first be opened, sorted, batched, scanned, and electronically captured before we can begi
If you are filing a New York tax amendment, you may need to file a federal tax amendment as well. 2013 New York Tax Forms New York tax returns for 2013 and other past Tax Years cannot beefiled. Download the tax forms, fill them out, print them, and mail them to the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance.
1 If you were a New York State resident for the entire year, file Form IT-201, Full-Year Resident Income Tax Return. 2  If you were a nonresident or part-year resident of New York, file Form IT-203, Nonresident and Part
If you are efiling a New York tax extension, you may need to efile a federal tax extension as well. NY Tax Amendment Amended New York tax returns cannot be efiled; they can only be filed by mail. Learn how to prepare and file a New York state tax amendment.
- Check Your NY State Tax Refund Status. Using efile and direct deposit is the fastest way to get your New York state tax refund. If file a New York state return on paper, your refund will generally be processed in 6-8 weeks.
Income Tax Refund Information. You can get information on the status of your New Jersey income tax refund either online or by phone. 1  Online Inquiry. 2  Phone Inquiry: 1-800-323-4400 (toll-free within NJ, NY, PA, DE, and MD) or 609-826-4400 (anywhere). 3  This service is available 7 days a week (hours may vary).
In the state of New York, state tax amendment forms are to be filled out and sent within a period of 3 years since the date of the original tax return filing or within 2 years of the date when the income tax was paid to the state, whichever date is later.
If you efile your New York return, your refund will generally be processed much faster and you will get your direct deposit refund sooner. Check New York state tax refund status. NY efile Error Codes View a list of all New York State efile Income Tax Return Error Reject Codes.
Check Your 2014 New York State Return Status. You will need your social security number, numbers in your mailing address, your zip code, and your 2014 tax refund amount claimed on your 2014 New york tax return.