Loose or areolar connective tissue is one in which collagen and elastic fibers within the matrix are loose. It is the most abundant connective tissue in the body. Fibroblasts are the most numerous cells found although migratory white blood cells are also found. These tissue fills up spaces between cells and fibers. They attach to muscle, and internal organs and blood vessels providing support.
Elastic fibers (or yellow fibers) are bundles of proteins (elastin) found in extracellular matrix of connective tissue and produced by fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells in arteries. These fibers can stretch up to 1.5 times their length, and snap back to their original length when relaxed. The elastic fiber is formed from the elastic microfibril (consisting of numerous proteins such as microfibrillar-associated glycoproteins, fibrillin, fibullin, and the elastin receptor) and amorphous elastin.
Collagen fibers made of collagen. Collagen fibers are tough and only slightly elastic.. They often occur in bundles with the fibers parallel to one another, which gives great tensile strength. Collagen is found in most connective tissues, esp. bone, tendons, and ligaments. Elastic fibers are composed of a protein called elastin and glycoprotein framework. They are very stretchy and branch and join to form a network. They provide strength to tissues, but allows the tissue to be flexible and stretchy. Dense irregular connective tissue-also has collagen fibers and fibroblasts, but the collagen fibers are thicker and arranged irregularly. This tissue usually forms sheets, and resists pulling in many directions. It is found in heart valves, around cartilage, bone, muscles, dermis of skin, and around some organs.
This connective tissue contains collagen fibers for flexibility and strength, and numerous elastic fibers that enable it to be stretched. Alveolar connective tissue is found in the skin and in most internal organs of vertebrates, where it allows the organs to expand, which is essential for the lungs. 
areolar. found under covering the lining epithelium. its extracellular matrix contains a losse arrangement of fibers, and its viscous ground substance facilitates the flow of interstitial fluid containing nutrients to the epithelial tissue. it also cushion and supports epithelia.
Fibers in the matrix provide strength. Three types of fibers are found in the connective tissue matrix: collagen, elastic and reticular. 1  Collagen fibers (white fibers): are extremely tough. 2  They are stronger than steel fibers of the same size. 3  They provide high tensile strength, which is the ability to resist longitudinal stress. 
areolar. Found under covering and lining epithelium. Its extracellular matrix contains a loose arrangement of fibers, and its viscous ground substance facilitates the flow of interstitial fluid containing nutrients to epithelial tissues. It also cushions and supports epithelia.
All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water. Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue
Elastic tissue is classified as connective tissue proper. The elastic fiber is formed from the elastic microfibril (consisting of numerous proteins such as microfibrillar-associated glycoproteins, fibrillin, fibullin, and the elastin receptor) and amorphous elastin.