bilirubin. a yellow to orange bile pigment produced by the breakdown of heme and reduction of biliverdin; it normally circulates in plasma and is taken up by liver cells and conjugated to form bilirubin diglucuronide, the water-soluble pigment excreted in the bile.
bilirubin. an orange bile pigment produced by the breakdown of heme and reduction of biliverdin; it normally circulates in plasma and is taken up by liver cells and conjugated to form bilirubin diglucuronide, the water-soluble pigment excreted in the bile. a yellow to
biliverdin. n. 1. (Physiology) a dark green pigment in the bile formed by the oxidation of bilirubin. Formula: C33H34O6N4. [C19: coined in Swedish, from Latin bīlis bile + Old French verd green + -in]. 
BVR facilitates the conversion of biliverdin to bilirubin via the reduction of a double-bond between the second and third pyrrole ring into a single-bond. There are two isozymes, in humans, each encoded by its own gene, biliverdin reductase A (BLVRA) and biliverdin reductase B (BLVRB). 
Definition of BILIVERDIN. : a green pigment that occurs in bile and is an intermediate in the degradation of hemoglobin heme groups to bilirubin. ADVERTISEMENT. Swedish, from Latin bilis + obsolete French verd green. First Known Use: 1845
Synonym(s): dehydrobilirubin, verdine. /bil·i·ver·din/ (-ver´din) a green bile pigment formed by catabolism of hemoglobin and converted to bilirubin in the liver; it may also arise from oxidation of bilirubin.
Biliverdin is a green tetrapyrrolic bile pigment, and is a product of heme catabolism. Biliverdin has been found in excess in the blood of humans suffering from hepatic diseases. Jaundice is caused by the accumulation of biliverdin or bilirubin (or both) in the circulatory system and tissues.
Green crystals. Biliverdin is an intermediate product of the decomposition of hemoglobin that occurs in macrophages of the liver, spleen, and bone marrow of vertebrate animals with the formation of the so-called verdoglobin, which then breaks down and liberates globin, iron, and biliverdin.
Medical Definition of BILIVERDIN. : a green pigment C33H34N4O6 that occurs in bile and is an intermediate in the degradation of hemoglobin heme groups to bilirubin. Next Word in the Dictionary: bilk (verb) Previous Word in the Dictionary: bilith All Words Near: biliverdin. : a green pigment that occurs in bile and is an intermediate in the degradation of hemoglobin heme groups to bilirubin. ADVERTISEMENT. Swedish, from Latin bilis + obsolete French verd green.
Biliverdin results from the breakdown of the heme moiety of hemoglobin in erythrocytes. Macrophages break down senescent erythrocytes and break the heme down into biliverdin, which normally rapidly reduces to free bilirubin. Biliverdin is seen briefly in some bruises as a green color. In bruises, its breakdown into bilirubin leads to a yellowish color. Biliverdin has been found in excess in the blood of humans suffering from hepatic diseases. Jaundice is caused by the accumulation of biliverdin or bilirubin (or both) in the circulatory system and tissues.