Treatment of the common cold with echinacea: a structured review. This review concluded that the potential therapeutic effectiveness of echinacea in the treatment of the common cold has not been established. BACKGROUND: Because there is no specific treatment for the common cold, many previous studies have focused on prevention of the common cold. There were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents
Results: 1 to 20 of 288. Evaluation of echinacea for the prevention and treatment of the common cold: a meta-analysis. This review of randomised trials found that treatment with echinacea significantly reduced cold incidence and duration compared with placebo. BACKGROUND: Because there is no specific treatment for the common cold, many previous studies have focused on prevention of the common cold. There were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents
About Common Colds. Common colds, or simply colds, are usually quite harmless and go away again on their own. Although they are different to the flu, having the symptoms of a cold-like a cough, sore throat and runny nose-can be bothersome. A severe cold can make you feel weak and ill too. Most colds are caused by viruses. Antibiotics are not effective against colds because they only fight bacteria. But there are other things you can do about colds and the related symptoms. Colds usually go away after about a week, but some symptoms may last longer.
It is called the common cold for good reason. There are over one billion colds in the United States each year. You and your children will probably have more colds than any other type of illness. Colds are the most common reason that children miss school and parents miss work. Parents often get colds from their children. Most colds go away in a few days. Some things you can do to take care of yourself with a cold include: 1  Get plenty of rest and drink fluids. 2  Over-the-counter cold and cough medicines may help ease symptoms in adults and older children. 3  They do not make your cold go away faster, but can help you feel better.
The common cold, or upper respiratory tract infection, is one of the leading reasons for physician visits. Generally caused by viruses, the common cold is treated symptomatically. Antibiotics are not effective in children or adults. In children, there is a potential for harm and no benefits with over-the-counter cough and cold medications; therefore, they should not be used in children younger than four years.
Vitamin C for preventing and treating the common cold. The common cold is a major cause of visits to a doctor in high‐income countries and of absenteeism from work and school. There are over 200 viruses which can cause the common cold symptoms including runny nose, congestion, sneezing, sore throat, cough, and sometimes headache, fever and red eyes. Symptoms vary from person to person and cold to cold
The common cold is caused by a range of viruses and bacteria. It is the most common illness affecting humans. It causes a runny and stuffy nose, sore throat and sneezing. There is no proven cure for the cold and only symptom relief is available. BACKGROUND: Because there is no specific treatment for the common cold, many previous studies have focused on prevention of the common cold. There were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents
Prophylactic vitamin C modestly reduces cold symptom duration in adults and children. The common cold, or upper respiratory tract infection, usually is caused by one of several respiratory viruses, most commonly rhinovirus. These viruses, which concentrate in nasal secretions, are easily transmitted through sneezing, coughing, or nose blowing. Signs and symptoms of the common cold include fever, cough, rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, sore throat, headache, and myalgias. Generally caused by viruses, the common cold is treated symptomatically. Antibiotics are not effective in children or adults. In children, there is a potential for harm and no benefits with over-the-counter cough and cold medications; therefore, they should not be used in children younger than four years.
Zinc for the treatment of the common cold: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. The moderate quality of evidence suggested that orally administered zinc reduced the duration of symptoms of the common cold. BACKGROUND: Because there is no specific treatment for the common cold, many previous studies have focused on prevention of the common cold. There were some studies reporting that regular, moderate-intensity exercise increases immunity and prevents
Definition. The common cold most often causes a runny nose, nasal congestion, and sneezing. You may also have a sore throat, cough, headache, or other symptoms. Most colds go away in a few days. Some things you can do to take care of yourself with a cold include: 1  Get plenty of rest and drink fluids. 2  Over-the-counter cold and cough medicines may help ease symptoms in adults and older children. 3  They do not make your cold go away faster, but can help you feel better.