It takes about 14-15 days for a chickadee's eggs to hatch. In Ducks. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
In many places, it's illegal to remove bird eggs from their natural habitat. In the U.S., for example, according to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918, it is illegal to take or possess any part, nest, or egg of a wild bird species. You could receive up to six months of jail time and a fine of up to $15,000. Ad.
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
Report Abuse. 21 days my dear, 21 days it will take to hatch a chicken provided the sitting is sitting on the egg or eggs and maintains the temperature. It also depends on the climatic conditions, but 21 DAYS ARE INT'L MEASURE. azrim h · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. In Ducks. It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Black-capped Chickadee lay 6-8 eggs that hatch in approximately 12 days. Babies fledge (leave the nest) when they are about 16 days old. Carolina Chickadee usually lay 6 eggs that hatch in about 11-12 days. Babies fledge when they are about 13-17 days old. Boreal Chickadee lay 4-9 eggs that hatch in about 11-15 days. Babies fledge when they are about 18 days old. Baby birds are not flying right away when they fledge. They leave the nest several days before they can fly
Do you know how long the egg has been left out to the elements? Even if you were successful in getting an egg to hatch, the survival chances of the young nestling would be minimal at best. Feeding a nestling would require a commitment of 16 hours a day 7 days a week for 2 weeks on average. Dietary needs of baby birds vary with species. Not all birds eat worms. 
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role.
Black-capped Chickadee nest. Photo by Peter Kwa. There are two eggs (part of one is visible) to the right of the nestling in the nestcup, which did not hatch. The floor size on this nestbox is 4 x 4 so that the nestcup can be estimated to be about 2 diameter. The moss base is about 1 to 1.5 thick. 