When comparing a polar and non-polar molecule with similar molar masses, the polar molecule generally has a higher boiling point, because of the dipole-dipole interaction between their molecules. The most common form of such an interaction is the hydrogen bond, which is also known as the H-bond. A non-polar compound occurs when there is an equal sharing of electrons between two different atoms. Examples of household non-polar compounds include fats, oil and petrol/gasoline. Therefore (per the oil and water rule of thumb), most non-polar molecules are water insoluble (hydrophobic) at room temperature.
Butanol, being an alcohol, is slightly polar. The C-O-H bonds are responsible for that. O being more electronegative pulls electrons towards itself from C and H atoms. However, it is less polar than methanol or ethanol. 1-butanol is soluble in water up to 7.4 %wt at 20oC and 7.7 %wt at 30oC, in other words if you add in less than this percentage it will dissolve.
The areas with carbon-oxygen bonds are fairly polar, while the carbon-hydrogen bonded areas are nonpolar … . Since there are extensive chains of carbon-hydrogen bonds in triglycerides, they are generally nonpolar and don't dissolve in water, a polar liquid. A non-polar compound occurs when there is an equal sharing of electrons between two different atoms. Examples of household non-polar compounds include fats, oil and petrol/gasoline. Therefore (per the oil and water rule of thumb), most non-polar molecules are water insoluble (hydrophobic) at room temperature.
The greater the electronegativity difference between atoms in a bond, the more polar the bond. Partial negative charges are found on the most electronegative atoms, the others are partially positive. In general, the presence of an oxygen is more polar than a nitrogen because oxygen is more electronegative than nitrogen.
The boiling point temperature of acetone (2-propanone) is 56.2 °C, and the boiling point temperature of methyl ethyl ketone (MEK or 2-butanone) is 79.6 °C. acetone methyl ethyl ketone (MEK). Each of these molecules possesses one polar bond, the carbon-oxygen bond, exerting a dipole-dipole attraction. London Forces and Polar Molecules. We know that polar molecules are attracted to each other by dipole-dipole attractions between the partial negative charge of one polar molecule and the partial positive charge on another polar molecule.
Butanone, also known as methyl ethyl ketone (MEK), is an organic compound with the formula CH 3 C(O)CH 2 CH 3. Butanone may be produced by oxidation of 2-butanol. The dehydrogenation of 2-butanol using a catalyst is catalyzed by copper, zinc, or bronze :
Butanol, being an alcohol, is slightly polar.   The C-O-H bonds are responsible for that. O being more  electronegative pulls electrons towards itself from C and H atoms. …  However, it is less polar than methanol or ethanol. 5 people found this useful. 1-butanol is soluble in water up to 7.4 %wt at 20oC and 7.7 %wt at 30oC, in other words if you add in less than this percentage it will dissolve.
Best Answer: 2-butanone: CH3-C(O)-CH2-CH3 Pentane: CH3-CH2-CH2-CH2-CH3 2-butanone is significantly more polar, since oxygen carries partial negative charge and the carbon atom it is attached to is significantly positively charged. Since intermolecular interaction is strong, that leas to higher boiling point. Pentane is pretty much non-polar, so, although dipole-dipole interaction is still present in pentane, it is much-much weaker.
2-Butanol. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (R)-(−)-2-butanol (S)-(+)-2-butanol. 2-Butanol, or sec-butanol, is an organic compound with formula C H3 CH(O H)CH 2 CH 3. This secondary alcohol is a flammable, colorless liquid that is soluble in 3 parts water and completely miscible with polar organic solvents such as ethers and other alcohols. Although some 2-butanol is used as a solvent, it is mainly converted to butanone (MEK), which is an important industrial solvent and found in many domestic cleaning agents and paint removers. Volatile esters of 2-butanol have pleasant aromas and are used in small amounts as perfumes or in artificial flavors.