My other question is on multiple myelona (cancer of the white blood/plasma cells) which i read also can cause a low test result of anion gap .. if i had something like that developing after 13 years of CFIDS.. What further is confusing about this is I have very low D3 and in my research on anion gap I saw that D3 deficiency affects anion gap the other way to my results and would make my anion gap result higher (not lower) than it would be without a D3 deficiency..
Anions are electrons that have a negative charge. They differ from cations which have a positive charge. In medical terms, the anion gap is the difference between the amount of anions and cations in a person's blood. The anion gap may be high, normal or low. This difference may be caused by diabetes or by a condition known as acidosis
1. Anion gap (AG or AGAP) is a value calculated using the results of an electrolyte panel. It is used to help distinguish between anion-gap and non-anion-gap metabolic acidosis. If anion-gap metabolic acidosis is identified, the AG may be used to help monitor the effectiveness of treatment and the underlying condition. Specifically, the anion gap evaluates the difference between measured and unmeasured electrical particles (ions or electrolytes) in the fluid portion of the blood.
In some instances, a high anion gap may occur because of high lactic acid levels or through alcohol abuse. If the anion gap blood test comes back with a low test result, then this is an indication that albumin levels are lower than they should be. 422. The anion gap blood test is a calculated value that comes from the results of an individual’s electrolyte panel. It is used to determine what a person’s anion and non-anion gap happens to be in regards to excess acid levels that may exist in the body.
The anion gap is the difference in the measured cations (positively charged ions) and the measured anions (negatively charged ions) in serum, plasma, or urine. 
The anion gap blood test is essentially performed on a sample of blood that is drawn from the patient's vein. As with any blood test, the patient will normally have a strap fastened around the top of the arm in order for the vein to fill up with blood and become more noticeable. Tweet. The term AGAP is an abbreviation for the Anion Gap, which is a measurement of ions that have either a positive or negative charge, present in the blood.
My blood biochem. test results from last week have come back showing my anion gap result is abnormal and two numbers below the normal range. On researching this I've found out low anion gap is uncommon. What further is confusing about this is I have very low D3 and in my research on anion gap I saw that D3 deficiency affects anion gap the other way to my results and would make my anion gap result higher (not lower) than it would be without a D3 deficiency..
Anion gap: A measurement of the interval between the sum of routinely measured cations minus the sum of the routinely measured anions in the blood. The anion gap = (Na+ + K+) - (Cl- + HCO3-) where Na-is sodium, K+ is potassium, Cl-is chloride, and HCO3- is bicarbonate. The anion gap can be normal, high, or low. A high anion gap indicated metabolic acidosis, the increased acidity of the blood due to metabolic processes. A low anion gap is relatively rare but may occur from the presence of abnormal positively charged proteins, as in multiple myeloma
Reference Range. The anion gap is the difference between primary measured cations (sodium Na + and potassium K +) and the primary measured anions (chloride Cl-and bicarbonate HCO3 -) in serum. Definition