Head of the Housatonic From Pittsfield, Mass. to Kent, Conn. Come explore the special places of the Housatonic River. . . enjoy riverfront walks through forested hillsides, a quiet float along meandering flat water, or the heady rush of world class rapids. Housatonic River Guide ... an online guide from the Berkshire Hills to Long Island Sound by Jenny Hersch. The guide includes maps, info about the river, launch sites and driving directions beginning at Muddy Pond in Washington, Mass. and ending where the river meets Long Island Sound at Court Street in Milford, Conn.
available in the Housatonic River Valley. A Paddling Guide to the Housatonic River in Berkshire County. This edition divides the River in Massachusetts into 14 navigable sections beginning with the East Branch in Hinsdale and ending in Connecticut at the Great Falls. One section of the West Branch in Pittsfield is also included. Housatonic River Guide ... an online guide from the Berkshire Hills to Long Island Sound by Jenny Hersch. The guide includes maps, info about the river, launch sites and driving directions beginning at Muddy Pond in Washington, Mass. and ending where the river meets Long Island Sound at Court Street in Milford, Conn.
The noun HOUSATONIC has 1 sense: 1. a river that rises in western Massachusetts and flows south through Connecticut to empty into Long Island Sound. Familiarity information: HOUSATONIC used as a noun is very rare. 
The Housatonic River is a river, approximately 149 mi (240 km) long, in western Massachusetts and western Connecticut in the United States. It flows south to southeast, and drains about 1,950 square miles (5,100 km²) of southwestern New England into Long Island Sound. Five dams impounded the river in Connecticut to produce hydroelectricity, the Falls Village, Bulls Bridge, Shepaug, Stevenson and Derby dams. The last three dams form a chain of lakes, Candlewood Lake, Lake Lillinonah, Lake Zoar and Lake Housatonic, from New Milford south to Shelton.
The Housatonic River Watershed is located primarily in western Massachusetts and Connecticut. However a small portion of the western headwaters of the river lie in eastern New York State. These waters drain the Taconic and Berkshire Mountains before joining the Housatonic and eventually emptying into Long Island Sound. Water quality in the New York State portion of the Housatonic River Watershed is quite good. Where impacts do occur in this small watershed, they are generally minor impacts that stress or threaten-rather than impair-uses.
Its watershed is just to the west of the watershed of the lower Connecticut River.The Housatonic rises from four sources in far western Massachusetts in the Berkshire Mountains near the city of Pittsfield. Five dams impounded the river in Connecticut to produce hydroelectricity, the Falls Village, Bulls Bridge, Shepaug, Stevenson and Derby dams. The last three dams form a chain of lakes, Candlewood Lake, Lake Lillinonah, Lake Zoar and Lake Housatonic, from New Milford south to Shelton.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Housatonic River (/ˌhuːsəˈtɒnɪk/ HOOS-ə-TON-ik) is a river, approximately 149 miles (240 km) long, in western Massachusetts and western Connecticut in the United States. It flows south to southeast, and drains about 1,950 square miles (5,100 km 2) of southwestern Connecticut into Long Island Sound. The United States Navy named a ship for the Housatonic River. The USS Housatonic has the distinction of being the first ship in history to be sunk by a submarine, the confederate vessel CSS H.L. Hunley.
Indigenous people began using the river area for fishing and hunting at least 6,000 years ago. By 1600, the inhabitants were mostly Mohicans and may have numbered 30,000. The river's name is derived from the Mohican phrase usi-a-di-en-uk , translated as beyond the mountain place or river of the mountain place. The United States Navy named a ship for the Housatonic River. The USS Housatonic has the distinction of being the first ship in history to be sunk by a submarine, the confederate vessel CSS H.L. Hunley.
• HOUSATONIC RIVER (noun). The noun HOUSATONIC RIVER has 1 sense: 1. a river that rises in western Massachusetts and flows south through Connecticut to empty into Long Island Sound. Familiarity information: HOUSATONIC RIVER used as a noun is very rare.