Step 4. Multiply the cost per ounce of liquor by the amount added to each drink. You'll need to estimate your liquor cost for each and every drink you serve. If you're pouring one ounce of vodka in your screwdrivers, your liquor cost per drink for a $30 bottle of vodka is 0.91 cents. Step 5. Multiply the liquor cost by four or five to establish the price of the drink. Again, the amount of profit you desire for each drink is determined by you as a bar owner or manager. To earn a 75 percent profit on each drink, multiply your liquor cost by four. For an 80 percent profit, multiply by five
Step 3. Determine the cost per ounce for each type of liquor you serve. You can easily calculate how much each ounce of alcohol costs by dividing the cost of each bottle by the amount of ounces it holds. For example, if your cost for a 33-ounce bottle of liquor is $30, the price per ounce is about 91 cents. Step 5. Multiply the liquor cost by four or five to establish the price of the drink. Again, the amount of profit you desire for each drink is determined by you as a bar owner or manager. To earn a 75 percent profit on each drink, multiply your liquor cost by four. For an 80 percent profit, multiply by five
But pour cost is typically expressed as a percentage of the sale price of a drink rather than a raw number; so if it costs a bar $2 in goods to produce a drink that it sells for $10, the pour cost of that drink is 20 percent. It costs $10 but comes in at a 32% pour cost, but it's designed to appeal to a smaller segment of the customer base, and therefore you only sell ten of them a night. You make up for this with Drink B. Drink B costs $8 but comes in at a 17% pour cost.
Cockeyed.com Cocktail Calculator. part 1 2 3 4 5 calculator recipes. Use the checkboxes and drop-down selection fields below to select the type of alcohol, mixers, juice and other ingredients, then click Calculate to see how much a glass-worth of these ingredients cost, and to see your grand total.
Yet, if my pour cost is only 1%, the same cocktail should cost my customers $219. I don’t work in a bar, but I find this calculator interesting. If my gross margin is 99% on a drink, it seems I should be charging less for the drink to maximize revenue at a certain price point. At the core, all you need to do is figure out how much the drink costs to make, and multiply by your targeted pour cost (if you’re unsure what this is, ask your boss or bookkeeper; the industry standard usually lies somewhere between 18% and 24%). It’s that easy, but it can get a little tricky sometimes.
At a 2 ounce pour ($1.42 x 2= $2.84) it will cost $2.84 in ingredients to pour a 2 ounce shot. If the house is seeking a 22% pour cost, it will take the total price of ingredients, in this case $2.84 and divide it by the pour cost percentage desired (.22) to get the sales price.
For instance, if a 750 ml bottle of Makers 46 costs $35.99, and the house pours a 2 ounce shot and the house wants a 22% pour cost, one would take the sale price ($35.99) and divide by 25.4 ounces in the bottle to figure the price per ounce. That will equal approximately $1.42. If the house is seeking a 22% pour cost, it will take the total price of ingredients, in this case $2.84 and divide it by the pour cost percentage desired (.22) to get the sales price.
Throw in the 13 cents worth of soda and nonsense and it's 44 cents for a drink they sell for $5.75. That's a markup of 1,206 percent, with the cost to the bar only 7.6 percent of the customer's price. 
1 The typical cost for a two-hour cocktail party ranges from $25-$230 per person. 2  On the higher end, hosts may choose a high-end venue, premium hors d'oeuvres and a full bar. 3  Caterers specializing in cocktail receptions let the host choose hot and cold appetizers for about $15 to $35 per person. 1 Limiting the number of appetizers and drink options at a cocktail party will typically save the host money. 2  Jack's Firehouse in Philadelphia offers limited budget cocktail parties with 4 appetizers, house beer and wine for $25 per person. 3  This is a $10 savings off the cost of the same party with 5 appetizers.