Fungus-Like Protists. * Some protists get their nutrients by extending slender filaments to a food source, after which they digest that food source externally, in the way fungi do. Protists in this category include the oomycetes, one group of which is known as the water molds. Confidence votes 11. Animal-Like Protists. * Once referred to as protozoa, the animal-like protists are alike in that they do not get their nutrients by performing photosynthesis, but instead get them from consuming either other organisms or bits of organic matter. They digest this material internally and have evolved various means of moving toward their prey
(outside of the body) Like animal Like protists Fungi Like protists get their energy from other organisms. Fungi gets their energy from slime molds and water molds. Fungus-Like Protists Reproduce A sexually, (Binary Fission) by forming Spores which are like Primitive seeds! Plant like Protists Plant like protists get energy by eating food, and water and taking in oxygen and nutrients through their cells. because they produce food so they are Autotrophs or algae. Plants Reproduce A sexually meaning they one parent cuts it self in half and makes an exact copy.
Algae-like protists obtain their nutrition mainly through photosynthesis, although some (euglena) can become heterotrophic under certain conditions. Protozoans (another group of protists) obtain nutrition by engulfing other cells, and slime and water molds are decomposers (they feast on decomposing matter). Eubacteria are either heterotrophs, saprobes, or photosynthesizers, and archaebacteria are largely heterotrophs or chemoautotrophs. I hope that helps. Report Abuse. 1. Protists are so different from each other that they have many ways of getting nutrients. The algae are photosynthetic autotrophs. The protozoa are heterotrophic, some eating other organisms and some parasitic. The slime molds are heterotrophic ... saprophytes.
Plant/Algal-Like Protists. Plant/Algal-like protists are eukaryotes that are similar to plants. Scientists classify these protists by the color of their pigments. They are autotrophic and use chlorophyll and other pigments to harvest and use energy from sunlight. They produce oxygen for our environment. Fungal-like protists are multi-cellular eukaryotes that are absorptive heterotrophs. The job of fungal-like protists are decomposers breaking down dead organic matter. They improve the quality of dirt by putting nutrients back into the ground.
Of the plant There are three types of fungus-like protists. • Protists that absorb food from their environment can be called fungus-like protists. These protists take in materials from the soil or from other organisms and break materials down in order to obtain energy. • Plantlike protists, called algae, obtain their energy from sunlight. Like plants, algae use the Sun’s energy, water, and carbon dioxide from the air or water to produce food. Algae contain chlorophyll (and chloroplasts). Because they produce their own food, all algae are autotrophs.
All About Protists Animal Like Protist An Animal Like protist Get's energy by consuming food Internally. Animal Like Protist (Protozoa) Animal like Protist Gets energy by consuming food Internally and by other organisms. Plant like Protists Plant like protists get energy by eating food, and water and taking in oxygen and nutrients through their cells. because they produce food so they are Autotrophs or algae. Plants Reproduce A sexually meaning they one parent cuts it self in half and makes an exact copy.
Animal like Protists grow by getting foods using their proteins. Plant like Protists Plant like protists get energy by eating food, and water and taking in oxygen and nutrients through their cells. because they produce food so they are Autotrophs or algae. Plants Reproduce A sexually meaning they one parent cuts it self in half and makes an exact copy.
Plant-Like Protists. * Protists that get their nutrition by performing photosynthesis are known as algae. Some algal species provide examples of colonial multicellularity, defined as a form of life in which individual cells form stable associations with one another but do not take on specialized roles. Confidence votes 11. Animal-Like Protists. * Once referred to as protozoa, the animal-like protists are alike in that they do not get their nutrients by performing photosynthesis, but instead get them from consuming either other organisms or bits of organic matter. They digest this material internally and have evolved various means of moving toward their prey
The term protista was first used by Ernst Haeckel in 1866. Protists were traditionally subdivided into several groups based on similarities to the higher kingdoms: the unicellular animal-like protozoa, the plant-like protophyta (mostly unicellular algae), and the fungus-like slime molds and water molds. Some protists, sometimes called ambiregnal protists, have been considered to be both protozoa and algae or fungi (e.g., slime molds and flagellated algae), and names for these have been published under either or both of the ICN and the ICZN.