Salivary Gland Swelling: A swelling located anatomically in the salivary gland. See detailed information below for a list of 24 causes of Salivary Gland Swelling, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
The following are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones, or sialoliths. The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. If not treated, salivary gland infections can cause severe pain, high fevers, and abscess (pus collection). Infections. Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. It usually begins approximately 48 hours after the start of other symptoms such as fever and headache
Here are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones (sialoliths) The most common causes of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones, are accumulations of crystallised saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva cannot exit through the ducts it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling.
The swelling or pain in the salivary glands causes salivary gland disorders. However, swollen salivary glands caused by infection and obstruction need immediate attention. Obstruction of saliva occurs when the ducts become blocked and saliva cannot drain. Bacteria or viral infections like mumps or Sjogren’s syndrome can also cause swollen salivary glands.
The three major salivary glands are the parotid gland, submandibular gland (also called the submaxillary gland), and sublingual glands. Saliva drains into the mouth through small tubes called ducts. 1  The parotid gland makes 25% of the saliva and drains into the mouth near the upper teeth. Dry mouth, tooth decay, mouth sores, enlarged salivary glands, sialoliths, and recurrent salivary gland infections are possible symptoms. The syndrome also effects moisture in the eyes, which might cause chronic eye infections, corneal ulcers and vision loss.
Causes of Salivary Gland Problems continued... Other viral illnesses that cause salivary gland swelling include the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Coxsackievirus, and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Bacterial infections generally cause one-sided salivary gland swelling. Other symptoms such as fever and pain will accompany the swelling. The bacteria are typically those found normally in the mouth, as well as staph bacteria. These infections most often affect the parotid gland. 
Swelling of the salivary gland is usually unilateral (one-sided) but certain systemic causes may result in bilateral swelling. Depending on the extent of the enlargement and gland involved, the swollen gland may cause visible swelling of the face. Other symptoms that may also be present include 1  : Mouth pain. 
A salivary gland infection occurs when a bacterial or viral infection affects the salivary gland or duct. The infection can result from reduced saliva flow or the blockage or inflammation of a salivary duct. The condition is called sialadenitis. Your mouth is almost constantly flushed with saliva. 
Causes of Swollen Parotid Gland. The most common causes of a sudden parotid swelling includes an infection or trauma (post-operative of after a blow to the face). Gradual and long term swelling is more likely due to autoimmune disorders, infections like HIV, calculi (stones) or tumors (both benign and malignant). 