And the pig, because it has a split hoof, but does not chew the cud; it is unclean for you. You shall neither eat of their flesh nor touch their carcass. These you may eat of all that are in the waters; all that have fins and scales, you may eat. In the Bible, G‑d lists two requirements for an animal to be kosher (fit to eat) for a Jew: Animals must chew their cud and have split hooves. Pigs do have split hooves but do not chew their cud, so we cannot eat pig meat and its derivatives.
note: The only Jews eating pork are those that do not follow the halachah. In Orthodox circles it is basically unknown-and in Conservative Judaism where they are more lenient on various aspects of Jewish law, the eating of pork is still a prohibition that is accepted by most. Back in the day, there was a real need for this since pigs could carry trichinosis and they couldn't guarantee that the pork would be cooked thoroughly. Pigs, like most other food products these days, are highly regulated and tested. No, Christians need not be doing it unless they are originally Jews.
The correct answer, it turns out, is that Jews don't eat pork because pigs are not antelope. Most contemporary scholars think that Mary Douglas cracked the purity codes of the ancient Israelis. A reader has a more straightforward response to the question : Pigs will eat anything, including human feces. In South American villages without sanitation removal and indoor plumbing, pigs are used to keep the area free of garbage and feces.
The risks associated with pork have been – and to a certain degree remain – significant for the majority of people in the world. Muslims are not the only people who do not eat pork; Jews, as well as some Christian denominations, also consider pork forbidden. In the Bible, we find the following passage: And the pig, though it has a divided hoof, does not chew the cud; it is unclean for you. 
Pigs also lack sweat glands and slop around in mud to keep cool. Thus pigs are considered unclean, similar to shellfish, which are also scavengers. Jews don't eat pork for the same reason Muslims don't: trichinosis. Only they didn't know it was trichinosis. They thought it was a curse from God. A reader has a more straightforward response to the question : Pigs will eat anything, including human feces. In South American villages without sanitation removal and indoor plumbing, pigs are used to keep the area free of garbage and feces.
It is in the bible. Old testament says you cannot. Jesus said it was now okay, but since Jews don't believe Jesus was the son of God they don't follow the new testament where Jesus said pork is now okay. Keeping Kosher means following the old testament teachings on eating cleanly as interpretted by a council of rabbis. There is a big section in the bible on what you cannot eat. It is mixed in with the other things that are considered unclean. They can't eat pigs because they have split hooves and don't chew their cud. They can eat cows because they don't have split hooves and do chew their cud. Can't eat rabbits because they don't have solid hooves. 
Best Answer: The Torah in Leviticus gives rules as to which animals are clean and unclean. In other words, which animals are kosher to eat. For land animals the rule is that the animal has to have a cloven hoof AND chew the cud. Back in the day, there was a real need for this since pigs could carry trichinosis and they couldn't guarantee that the pork would be cooked thoroughly. Pigs, like most other food products these days, are highly regulated and tested. No, Christians need not be doing it unless they are originally Jews.
However, God prohibits Jews from eating pork since it is an animal that has a split hoof but does not chew the cud. As with many of the laws of the Torah, there is no real reason given for why Jews cannot eat pork. The Bible only states that the pig is unclean. Thanks for the information. For quite a while I had been curious as to the reason why Jewish folks did not eat pork. I had heard it was because pigs were unclean but having been around family and neighbors that raised chickens, one would wonder why Jews then don't eat chicken as well if that were the only reason.
Prohibition of pork consumption in Jewish law [edit]. According to Jewish law, pork is one of a number of foods forbidden to Jews. These foods are known as non-kosher foods. In order for a meat to be kosher, it must first come from a kosher animal. However, Seventh-day Adventists consider pork taboo, along with other foods forbidden by Jewish law. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church does not permit pork consumption, while the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria is divided on the subject.
Not consuming pork is a defining tradition in Judaism, one of main rules of keeping kosher, the Jewish dietary laws. In the book of Leviticus, God told the Israelites that they may eat any animal that has a cleft hoof and chews the cud: this includes ox, sheep, goats, deer and cows. Thanks for the information. For quite a while I had been curious as to the reason why Jewish folks did not eat pork. I had heard it was because pigs were unclean but having been around family and neighbors that raised chickens, one would wonder why Jews then don't eat chicken as well if that were the only reason.