(11) Democrats believe Congress should be of the people, by the people and for the people. Republicans believe corporations are the people. (12) Democrats believe that corporations have too much influence over Congress due to their lobbyists and huge campaign contributions.
1 Democrats believe in lowering the taxes on the poor, and increasing taxes on the rich, while Republicans want to lower taxes on everyone, not just poor people. 2  Democrats are liberals while Republicans are conservatives. 3  There is very little fundamental difference between Democrats and Republicans in practice.
*NOTE to the author     there is a big difference between the two parties. Democrats are more liberal and Republicans are a lot more conservative.       Note to the Note   The question was related to the PARTIES, not the philosophy of individual members.
With the establishment of a powerful two-party political system in the United States—the Democrats beginning in 1824 and the Republicans beginning in 1854—there are some core differences between the two based on very strong political beliefs.
1 Anyway, democrats believe in taxing and spending and republicans believe in saving and waiting or borrowing and spending. 2  Abortion is one of the biggest arguments between the parties. 3  Democrats are pro-choice which means that they want people to have the choice to abort.
One of the differences between democrats and republicans lies in their views towards social issues. The Republicans tend to be conservative on social issues. They tend to oppose gay marriage and promote marriage being between a man and a woman. They also oppose abortion and promote the right of gun ownership.
1 There is very little fundamental difference between Democrats and Republicans in practice. 2  In general (theoretically) today, Republicans support less social freedom and more economic freedom, while Democrats support less economic freedom and more social freedom.
Another difference between a Democrat and a Republican is that the former as a party tends to be pro-choice and the other one tends to be pro-life. When a Democrat favours social policies at the federal level, a Republican favours the policies at the state level.
Though there are some differences between democrats and republicans, it’s next to impossible to classify everyone based on every political issue, there are many specific important points that members of each party agree with. These important points are generally found in each party’s platform.