platelet aggregation, a clumping together of platelets, part of a sequential mechanism leading to the initiation and formation of a thrombus or hemostatic plug. a known platelet aggregating factor such as collagen, ADP or thrombin is added to a suspension of the platelets under test and the degree of aggregation measured by decrease in turbidity of the suspension.
How the test is performed. A blood sample is needed. For information on how this is done, see: Venipuncture. The laboratory specialist will look at how the platelets spread out in the liquid part of the blood (plasma) and whether they form clumps after a certain chemical or drug is added. Decreased platelet aggregation may be due to: 1  Autoimmune disorders that produce antibodies against platelets. 2  Bernard-Soulier syndrome. 3  Fibrin degradation products. 4  Glanzmann's thrombasthenia. 5  Medicines that block platelet formation. 6  Myeloproliferative disorders.
the adherence of platelets to any area with damaged blood vessels; an important component of hemostasis. platelet aggregation. the progressive accumulation of platelets, attracted by other platelets once adhesion begins. a known platelet aggregating factor such as collagen, ADP or thrombin is added to a suspension of the platelets under test and the degree of aggregation measured by decrease in turbidity of the suspension.
Description. Platelet aggregation studies test the clumping response of platelets to various platelet activators (eg, ADP, collagen, arachidonic acid, thrombin, epinephrine, ristocetin) as continuously recorded by a light transmission aggregometer. The reference range is a normal biphasic pattern of aggregation in response to specific platelet activators (see image below). Aggregation curve showing events in classic biphasic aggregation. Next.
platelet aggregation test. a known platelet aggregating factor such as collagen, ADP or thrombin is added to a suspension of the platelets under test and the degree of aggregation measured by decrease in turbidity of the suspension. platelet coun
Platelet Aggregation Test. A platelet aggregation test checks how well your platelets clump together. Platelets are types of blood cells. They help form blood clots by sticking together. A clot stops the bleeding when you have a wound. A platelet aggregation test requires a blood sample. The sample will be examined to see how the platelets are distributed through the plasma. Plasma is the liquid part of the blood. The lab technician will also add certain chemicals to your blood sample to test how quickly your platelets form a clot
platelet aggregation test. a known platelet aggregating factor such as collagen, ADP or thrombin is added to a suspension of the platelets under test and the degree of aggregation measured by decrease in turbidity of the suspension. Agonist — A chemical that is added to the blood sample in the platelet aggregation test to stimulate the clumping process. Hemophilia — An inherited bleeding disorder caused by a deficiency of factor VIII, one of a series of blood proteins essential for blood clotting.
They may be used for a variety of reasons. Examples of some of the situations in which they may be used include: 1  To identify and help diagnose platelet dysfunction in those with a history of excessive bleeding. 2  It is in this area that platelet function tests are of the most use. 
New Study Findings: Gender, race and diet affect platelet function tests in normal subjects, contributing to a high rate of abnormal results. 