The costs of a pet microchip are higher than the costs of a regular ID tag; however, the chip has many advantages and cannot be removed or lost by the dog. In addition, the contact info on the chip can be changed without removing the chip, while an ID tag has to be replaced each time you change your contact details. The procedure can cost an additional $50 to $100. However, you may find higher costs as well. The cost of a dog microchip may be variable and will depend on: 1  The type of microchips, as there are low cost chips and high end chips; talk to your vet about the options you have.
1 On average, the microchip for dogs cost can be anywhere from $20 to as much as $60 to have the chip implanted. 2  It will normally cost another $10 to $30 to have the dog registered in the national database. 1 It will normally cost another $10 to $30 to have the dog registered in the national database. 2  The website PetFinder.com claims that it can cost anywhere about $45 and up to get the micro
· just now. Report Abuse. If you can find a microchip clinic being sponsored by a humane society shelter or a local kennel club you can probably get it done for $20 - $30. If you go to your vet you'll likely spend more in the range of $50 - $75. Sally B · 9 years ago. 
The Cost of a Dog Microchip. The average costs of a dog microchip are between $20 and $50, but this doesn’t include the veterinary procedure of placing the chip. The procedure can cost an additional $50 to $100. However, you may find higher costs as well. The cost of a dog microchip may be variable and will depend on: 1  The type of microchips, as there are low cost chips and high end chips; talk to your vet about the options you have.
Best Answer. Microchipping costs the same, regardless of the breed and size of dog. However, prices for microchipping vary widely, depending on where you're at. I had Abby chipped while we were at the K-9 Games and it cost me $35. My local vets all charged in the area of $50 for the same thing
New HomeAgain clinics will be offered an introductory price of $750 (a $1,349 value) for two boxes of the HomeAgain Universal WorldChip™ or two boxes of the HomeAgain XS™ Microchip and one Universal WorldScan Reader. For every 25 HomeAgain enrollments, clinics will receive a free carton of microchips. Following the first year of HomeAgain membership (which is regularly priced at $17.99 but may be offered at a discount through a HomeAgain vet clinic or shelter), pet owners will be able to maintain their exclusive member benefits by renewing their annual membership at a nominal cost of $17.99 per year.
Depending on the type of microchip and whether your dog gets the procedure at a veterinary office, a microchipping clinic or a participating pet supply store, the one-time fee generally ranges from $25 to $50. Microchip Registration Cost. There are often additional charges beyond the microchip itself. While the registration fee is sometimes included in the cost of a microchip, most of the time you will need to pay a separate charge to register and store your contact information with a pet recovery database.
Microchip Cost. The cost of a microchip for your dog is relatively affordable. Most animal shelters and some pet shops include microchip services at no additional cost beyond the regular adoption or purchase fee. Microchip Registration Cost. There are often additional charges beyond the microchip itself. While the registration fee is sometimes included in the cost of a microchip, most of the time you will need to pay a separate charge to register and store your contact information with a pet recovery database.
1 The cost of a microchipping a dog is a rather inexpensive procedure. 2  The cost of microchipping is going to widely vary depending on the adoption agency doing the procedure and the breed of dog that will have the microchip installed. 1 It will normally cost another $10 to $30 to have the dog registered in the national database. 2  The website PetFinder.com claims that it can cost anywhere about $45 and up to get the microchip implanted.