1 Once your symptoms are under control, you'll work with your doctor to find the best long-term treatment. 2  Continued treatment. 3  Bipolar disorder requires lifelong treatment, even during periods when you feel better. 4  Maintenance treatment is used to manage bipolar disorder on a long-term basis. Depending on your needs, treatment may include: 1  Initial treatment. 2  Often, you'll need to start taking medications to balance your moods right away. 3  Once your symptoms are under control, you'll work with your doctor to find the best long-term treatment. 4
Don't confuse rescue and maintenance inhalers. Inhalers are devices that contain medicines used to treat asthma and several other diseases that affect the lungs. By inhaling the medicine from the device, asthma sufferers and people with other lung diseases can breathe easier.
Long-acting inhalers are used daily. They help control asthma and prevent symptoms from occurring. These are called maintenance inhalers because the medicine works more slowly but lasts much longer. Maintenance inhalers do not work to treat sudden symptoms. Inhalers are devices that contain medicines used to treat asthma and several other diseases that affect the lungs. By inhaling the medicine from the device, asthma sufferers and people with other lung diseases can breathe easier.
These anti-inflammatory drugs are the most effective and commonly used long-term control medications for asthma. They reduce swelling and tightening in your airways. You may need to use these medications for several months before you get their maximum benefit. Long-term control medications. Many people with asthma need to take long-term control medications daily, even when they don't have symptoms. There are several types of long-term control medications, including the following.
When asthma symptoms are in high gear and the wheezing and coughing sets in, it's the inhaler to the rescue -- the rescue inhaler, to be exact. If you have asthma, your rescue inhaler should be among the first things you reach for when you leave the house, along with your wallet and car keys. The Basics of Rescue Inhalers. The most common class of rescue inhalers is the beta-agonist bronchodilator. Beta-agonist drugs provide short-acting, quick relief when symptoms like wheezing, coughing, and chest tightness flare -- whether it's from a friend's cat, summer pollen, a dusty house, or a run on a cold day.
PREDNISONE is a corticosteroid. It is commonly used to treat inflammation of the skin, joints, lungs, and other organs. Common conditions treated include asthma, allergies, and arthritis. It is also used for other conditions, such as blood disorders and diseases of the adrenal glands. SALMETEROL is a slow-acting bronchodilator. It helps to open up the airways of your lungs. This medicine is used to treat COPD and to prevent exercise induced bronchospasm. It is also used to treat asthma in patients taking other asthma control medicines.
1 Initial treatment. 2  Often, you'll need to start taking medications to balance your moods right away. 3  Once your symptoms are under control, you'll work with your doctor to find the best long-term treatment. 4  Continued treatment. Depending on your needs, treatment may include: 1 
A young child needed two different inhalers to treat his asthma. The inhaler he used every day—his maintenance inhaler —was called Symbicort (contains the medicines budesonide and formoterol). Inhalers are devices that contain medicines used to treat asthma and several other diseases that affect the lungs. By inhaling the medicine from the device, asthma sufferers and people with other lung diseases can breathe easier.