Pain is usually the first symptom of shingles. For some, it can be intense. Depending on the location of the pain, it can sometimes be mistaken for a symptom of problems affecting the heart, lungs or kidneys. Some people experience shingles pain without ever developing the rash. Most commonly, the shingles rash develops as a stripe of blisters that wraps around either the left or right side of your torso. Sometimes the shingles rash occurs around one eye or on one side of the neck or face. The signs and symptoms of shingles usually affect only a small section of one side of your body. These signs and symptoms may include: 1  Pain, burning, numbness or tingling. 2  Sensitivity to touch. 3  A red rash that begins a few days after the pain. 4  Fluid-filled blisters that break open and crust over. 5  Itching.
Shingles Diagnosis Without a Rash. Some people have burning, painful, itchy sensations on one area of skin, but they don't get a rash (or the shingles rash has yet to appear). If there is no rash, the symptoms can be difficult to diagnose because they can be mistaken for several other diseases. 
Symptoms of Shingles without Rash. While painful blisters on the skin are the most common symptoms of a shingles outbreak, there are other symptoms you can use to diagnose the condition. Not all patients suffering from shingles will develop a rash. Pain-Shingles is a very painful disease. Shingles is known for its cause of painful blisters on the skin, but it is possible to experience shingles without rash. The varicella-zoster virus causes both chickenpox and shingles. After a patient goes through chickenpox, this virus will lay dormant in the nerve tissue around the spinal cord and brain.
The virus is spread through direct contact with fluid from the rash blisters caused by shingles. A person with active shingles can spread the virus when the rash is in the blister-phase. A person is not infectious before the blisters appear. Once the rash has developed crusts, the person is no longer contagious. 
Alice! There is, in fact, a condition called zoster sine herpete (i.e., zoster, the virus, without the herpes blisters), in which nerves are affected without the usual rash associated with shingles. In this case, the nerve involvement causes pain and extreme sensitivity, but the rash just never shows up. 
I have just begun a round of famcyclovir for shingles without a rash. It began as a neuralgia type pain in a four inch band from my spine around to my belly button on the right side. I can push on the area and it does not hurt, but the lightest touch across it is excruciating. The shower hurts the area badly as well. 
If you've ever had the chickenpox -- and almost all adults have -- there's a good chance the virus is still at large in your body. The varicella-zoster virus can lie dormant for decades without causing any symptoms. In some people, the virus wakes up and travels along nerve fibers to the skin. The result is a distinctive, painful rash called shingles. 
Shares & Saves. Save. The two most characteristic symptoms of shingles are pain following a nerve along one side of the body and a rash that follows the path of that nerve. However, some people develop shingles without a rash; this is a condition known as zoster sine herpeticum (or herpete). Others may develop a rash that is overlooked because it is so small; this is a condition known as zoster cum herpete minimo.
When the virus that causes chickenpox reactivates, it causes shingles. Early symptoms of shingles include headache, sensitivity to light, and flu-like symptoms without a fever. You may then feel itching, tingling, or pain where a band, strip, or small area of rash may appear several days or weeks later. 