It's the greatest (here comes summer). Let's have summer all the time. Oh let the sun shine bright on my happy summer home. Here comes summer (here comes summer). School is out, oh happy days. Here comes summer (here comes summer). Gonna grab my girl and run away. If she's willing (here comes summer). We'll go steady right away. Oh let the sun shine bright on my happy summer home. Here comes summer (here comes summer). Almost June, the sun is bright
. Here Comes Summer  was a 1959 song, which was written and performed by Jerry Keller. The song was produced for Keller by Richard Wolf and released on London Records. It reached No. 14 on the Billboard Hot 100, and No. 1 for one week in the UK Singles Chart. The song uses the opening quote from the Stephen Foster song  My Old Kentucky Home  (The Sun Shines Bright).
Here Comes Summer  was a 1959 song, which was written and performed by Jerry Keller. The song was produced for Keller by Richard Wolf and released on London Records. It reached No. 14 on the Billboard Hot 100, and No. 1 for one week in the UK Singles Chart. The song uses the opening quote from the Stephen Foster song  My Old Kentucky Home  (The Sun Shines Bright).
Here comes summer. School is out, oh happy day. Here comes summer. I'm gonna grab my girl and run away. Here comes summer. We'll go swimmin' every day. Oh, let the sun shine bright on my happy summer home. Well, school's not so bad but summer's better. Oh let the sun shine bright on my happy summer home. (Oh let the sun shine bright...). Well here comes summer time at last! Lyrics taken from http://www.lyricsmode.com/lyrics/j/jerry_keller/here_comes_summer.html.
He also co-wrote the song A Man and a Woman, which was recorded by numerous artists. He also wrote soundtrack music for I Saw What You Did and Angel in My Pocket. Keller was a number one call vocalist for television jingles throughout the 1970s and 1980s. He also had a cameo role as the orchestra music director in the 1977 film You Light Up My Life. His biggest (and only) hit was 1959's Here Comes Summer, which reached #14 on the Billboard charts. Here Comes Summer also reached #1 on the UK charts, but not until the autumn of 1959. 
1 Provide song facts, names, places and other worthy info that may give readers a perfect insight on the song's meaning. 2  Add links, pictures and videos to make your explanation more appealing. 3  Provide quotes to support the facts you mention. Oh let the sun shine bright on my happy summer home. (Oh let the sun shine bright...). Well here comes summer time at last! Lyrics taken from http://www.lyricsmode.com/lyrics/j/jerry_keller/here_comes_summer.html.
Mini Bio (1). Composer, songwriter (Here Comes Summer, Almost There), author, singer and publisher, educated at the University of Tulsa and the Mable Horsey School of Music as well as private voice study. 
Also featured on. +131 other releases. According to the Here Comes Summer Songfacts this song, which celebrated teenage innocence, was the UK’s first ever summer hit. Strangely, though it entered the UK charts in August, this song arrived at the #1 spot in the rather unseasonal month of October. 