All-natural kratom powder has been in the news lately as one of an exciting new class of ethnobotanicals gaining popularity all over the globe. Except this wholesome herbal remedy has already been a favorite for countless generations. Used responsibly, kratom powder is completely safe. There are no serious medical conditions related to kratom use, and it is not suspected to promote addiction or withdrawal. In fact, kratom is known to be an incredible tool for helping people with drug dependencies stop using hardcore opiates like heroin or opium.
We have a BUY KRATOM section! Kratom powder is a favorite of many people that I know. Some use it for pain from work or an old injury. Some use it to get rid of excess stress in their life. Some people use Kratom powder simply to take the edge off and really get into what I like to call 'relax mode.'. It's an all-natural choice. 
What is Kratom. Kratom (aka Mitragyna Speciosa) grows natively in Southeast Asia like Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia. It's leaves are harvested from tall trees and either chewed on fresh or dried out for exporting or grinding to powder. Kratom is part of the Rubiaceae family also know as the coffee family. Kratom is a medicinal leave traditionally has been used for it's psychoactive properties in it's native counties Malaysia and Thailand. Workers and laborers would chew the fresh leaves for a stimulating and pain numbing feeling to help get through the work day.
Loading ... Kratom is a plant that has been much celebrated by the online community for mood enhancement, stimulant properties, anxiety relief and recreational use. In smaller doses, it is said to increase alertness, sociability, sexual drive as well as physical and mental energy. Kratom is the name for the leaves of the tropical Mitragyna Speciosa tree that is closely related to Rubiaceae – also known as the coffee bean tree. This tree can grow to a height of 100 feet and features large, green leaves with tiny yellow flowers
Kratom extract powder is one of the many forms of kratom extract, which also include kratom oil, liquid kratom, full spectrum kratom tincture and kratom resin. Kratom extract effects are much stronger than regular kratom, which is produced by drying and grinding the leaf from the kratom tree. Kratom, or…. Powdered kratom extract has a much denser concentration of the active ingredient – alkaloids such as mitragynine, mitraphylline and 7-hydroxymitragynine.
Mitragyna Speciosa, also known as Kratom, is a large tree in the Rubiaceae family native to Southeast Asia in the Indochina and Malesia floristic regions. It was first documented by Pieter Korthals, a Dutch colonial botanist. 
Kratom is a tree native to Southeast Asia (Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Borneo, etc.). Its botanical name is Mitragyna speciosa. Kratom is in the same family as the coffee tree (Rubiaceae). The leaves of kratom have been used as an herbal drug from time immemorial by peoples of Southeast Asia. 
Mitragyna speciosa (ketum, kratom or kratum, Thai: กระท่อม) is a tropical deciduous and evergreen tree in the coffee family (Rubiaceae) native to Southeast Asia in the Indochina and Malesia floristic regions. Its leaves are used for medicinal properties. 
Kratom is a plant / tree / leaf / powder / extract from Thailand that's been used for years as an opiate substitute and legal high. It has many uses both medicinally, as an entheogen and even as natural pain relief. There are several places to buy kratom in many different form. 