Determine which Court has jurisdiction for your divorce. A divorce can be filed in any Circuit or Superior Court in the county where either you or your spouse resides. In some counties, the Clerk of Courts may rotate divorce filings in order to distribute them evenly in all Courts. 10. Ask your spouse to complete his or her part of the divorce filings. You spouse will need to: 1  Complete and sign an Answer, Waiver, and Request for Copy of Final Judgment, a Notice of Social Security Number, a Financial Affidavit, and a Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Affidavit.
Although many couples want to finalize their divorces as fast as possible, couples in Florida cannot avoid the mandatory waiting periods and other requirements for divorce. To get a simplified divorce, you must submit a petition signed by both spouses, along with financial affidavits by both spouses. After you file the petition, the court will schedule a hearing for a date that is at least 20 days later.
First, you want to make sure you are filing the right forms for your divorce, or “dissolution of marriage,” as it is called in Florida, in the correct circuit. You should file for divorce in the county where you live, and you must have been a resident of that county for at least six months prior to filing for divorce. Filing for divorce means you have given your petition for dissolution of marriage to the clerk’s office of the circuit court for the county where you are filing. You will need to have your petition notarized before filing with the court; most courthouses will have a notary present who can do this for a fee.
Work out an agreement with your spouse. In order to get a quick divorce in Florida, both parties will need to agree on every issue. Talk to your spouse and work out an agreement on all of the following issues: 1  Division of assets. 10. Ask your spouse to complete his or her part of the divorce filings. You spouse will need to: 1  Complete and sign an Answer, Waiver, and Request for Copy of Final Judgment, a Notice of Social Security Number, a Financial Affidavit, and a Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Affidavit.
Florida law allows that, once you have reached an agreement on all issues, you can get a dissolution of marriage in as few as 20 days from the filing of the petition for dissolution of marriage. Many people are in a hurry to get a divorce in Florida. The reasons vary. Some people are anxious to marry someone else. Some want to stop sharing their large incomes with their lower income spouses. Some just want out of the relationship
Simplified Divorce. If you qualify for a simplified divorce, it may be the quickest route to finalize a divorce in Florida. You may only file for a simplified divorce if you and your spouse agree to get divorced, you do not have children, and you agree that neither spouse will receive alimony. To get a simplified divorce, you must submit a petition signed by both spouses, along with financial affidavits by both spouses. After you file the petition, the court will schedule a hearing for a date that is at least 20 days later.
Under Florida law, the quickest that anyone can get divorced in Florida is 20 days. If you are a Florida resident and want a quick 20-day divorce, just follow the steps below. 10. Ask your spouse to complete his or her part of the divorce filings. You spouse will need to: 1  Complete and sign an Answer, Waiver, and Request for Copy of Final Judgment, a Notice of Social Security Number, a Financial Affidavit, and a Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Affidavit.
A Florida quick divorce can be completed in just 30 days. That’s right—in a month you can get divorced. From the date of filing, a Florida quick divorce can have a final judgment within 30 days, but you have to make sure you do your part to achieve a quick divorce. You also have to make sure to keep the drama and emotions out of your case and the courtroom. DivorceYes.com offers flat fee legal services for Florida quick divorce. We can handle your case for just $399 for cases without kids and $499 for cases with kids.
Our 3StepDivorce Online Divorce for Florida is offered with a peace-of-mind 100% guarantee. We offer a 100% guarantee that the documents provided will be accepted by the Florida courts to finalize your divorce. In the event that the documents provided are not accepted by the Florida court due to the fault of Divorce Source, Inc., you will be provided a 100% refund (with no handling fee).