Ear infection and earache. Essential oils can be used as an alternative treatment for a variety of problems-and if looking for a specific problem area please use our search page to find relevant information. Symptoms include shooting pains in one or both ears, fever, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, a feeling of fullness and noises in the ear. Often middle-ear infections are brought on by a cold or flu. If the pain is very severe and there is neck stiffness and raised temperature, it is important to see a doctor.
To help fight viral/bacterial infection and prevent further secondary infections: 1  Immunity Blend, diluted with carrier oil, on the bottom of feet to help fight infection. 2  Use also internally, 3  For children: Dip a toothpick in Immunity blend, then poke toothpick into an apple wedges or stir a drop into applesauce. 1 If ear infection is still present after 7 days, reevaluate the essential oil dilution and consult a healthcare physician. 2  Treat both ears, even if only one ear is infected. 3  This will keep the body in balance, and keep the other ear from getting infected.
Aromatically. For dogs, essential oils can be used aromatically by putting a drop of the essential oil on their collar or on their dog bed. You can also make a spray by adding a few essential oil drops to water and spraying the dog’s fur. Topically. You can apply essential oils to the spine, ears, or even on the toes/pads of dogs. 
Using Essential Oils to Treat Earaches & Infections. The ears a very sensitive part of the body and we should use caution when applying essential oils near them. First of all, avoid applying essential oils, both neat and diluted, directly into ears. Essential oils really shouldn’t be put inside of an ear. Inner ear infections are a bit worse. These are viral/bacterial and can cause severe pain, discomfort, tinnitus, vertigo and can potentially lead to a deeper infection. These infections, though acute, often resolve on their own accord (around 80% of the time).
Chamomile and Lavender. Used separately, chamomile and lavender help treat both the infection causing the earache and reduce the pain the infection brings on. Used together they do both even more effectively. One method to treat an earache is with a warm compress applied to the ear and cheek. Davis claims this treatment both eases the pain and helps stop the infection's spread farther into the ear. In The Complete Guide to Essential Oils & Aromatherapy, Valeria Worwood recommends a different method--add a drop of lavender and a drop of chamomile essential oil to 1 tsp. warm olive oil and mix well.
• Clove Essential Oil. It is recommended that you dilute the oils for a small breed. Place one drop of each oil in a small vial and dilute 50/50 with olive oil or fractionated coconu t oil before applying. Using a cew tip, clean the inside of the ear canal. It is not advised to allow oil to drip deep into the canal.
Essential oil based treatments work well here, as well as vinegar drops* and do antibiotic drops (if the infection is bacterial). These infections can be prevented with vinegar and/or alcohol drops (such as “Swim-Ear) when used right after exposure to a pool. Inner ear infections are a bit worse. These are viral/bacterial and can cause severe pain, discomfort, tinnitus, vertigo and can potentially lead to a deeper infection. These infections, though acute, often resolve on their own accord (around 80% of the time).
NOTE: This first recipe is for non-serious earaches caused by milk infections or a cold. If your earache is regular, persistent or severe you should avoid putting essential oils inside the ear and visit a doctor. Inner ear infections are a bit worse. These are viral/bacterial and can cause severe pain, discomfort, tinnitus, vertigo and can potentially lead to a deeper infection. These infections, though acute, often resolve on their own accord (around 80% of the time).
Ear Infections & Essential Oils. The common Ear Infection happens in the middle of the ear. (It is called Acute Otitis Media) The middle ear is the small part of the ear, just inside the eardrum. It can get infected when bacteria from the nose and throat get trapped there. A small tube connects your ear to your throat. 1 If ear infection is still present after 7 days, reevaluate the essential oil dilution and consult a healthcare physician. 2  Treat both ears, even if only one ear is infected. 3  This will keep the body in balance, and keep the other ear from getting infected.
Tea Tree Oil. Most essential oils have some antiseptic properties, but tea tree oil is especially powerful. Tea tree oil's infection killing ability makes it the best choice for attacking the source of the infection. To maximize tea tree oil's antiseptic action, use it in a steam inhalation. Davis claims this treatment both eases the pain and helps stop the infection's spread farther into the ear. In The Complete Guide to Essential Oils & Aromatherapy, Valeria Worwood recommends a different method--add a drop of lavender and a drop of chamomile essential oil to 1 tsp. warm olive oil and mix well.