In North America, several variants of the boreal forest occur in the mountains of the West: 1  In the Pacific Northwest, what amounts to a temperate rainforest is dominated by needleleaf species such as Douglas fir, western hemlock, and other giants. Taiga is the Russian name for this forest which covers so much of that country. However, the term is used in North America as well. Climate: The taiga corresponds with regions of subarctic and cold continental climate (Koeppen’s Dfb, Dfc, and Dwd climate types).
PLANTS: Compared to other biomes, the taiga has less diversity in plant life. The most common type of tree found in the taiga is the conifer, or cone-bearing tree. Conifers, also known as evergreens, include pines, spruces and firs. There may also occasionally be deciduous species present, such as oak, birch, willow, or alder, in a particularly wet or disturbed area. LOCATION: Taiga, also known as coniferous or boreal forest, is the largest terrestrial biome on earth. It extends in a broad band across North America, Europe, and Asia to the southern border of the arctic tundra.
B oreal forests throughout the world share many of the same species of animals and plants as Northwestern Ontario's boreal region. On the following pages we will look at the common and not-so-common flora and fauna found elsewhere in Canada, Alaska, Scandinavia, Russia, Eurasia and Siberia. 
Introduction. The boreal forest (also known as the taiga, a russian word meaning swampy moist forest) is found in a nearly continuous belt across North America and Eurasia. Most of Canada and Russia are covered by coniferous trees that make up this biome. In North America, one or two species of fir and one or two species of spruce are dominant. Across Scandanavia and western Russia the Scots pine is a common component of the taiga. There are several other trees that can be found in this zone.
Plants Animals Climate Siberian Taiga A biome is the type of habitat in certain places, like mountain tops, deserts, and tropical forests, and is determined by the climate of the place. The taiga is the biome of the needleleaf forest. Living in the taiga is cold and lonely. Coldness and food shortages make things very difficult, mostly in the winter.
In North America, one or two species of fir and one or two species of spruce are dominant. Across Scandanavia and western Russia the Scots pine is a common component of the taiga. Broadleaf deciduous trees and shrubs are members of early successional stages of both primary and secondary succession. Taiga is the Russian name for this forest which covers so much of that country. However, the term is used in North America as well. Climate: The taiga corresponds with regions of subarctic and cold continental climate (Koeppen’s Dfb, Dfc, and Dwd climate types).
Boreal (taiga) Forest. Location: This is the northern most forest type and is found between 50 and 60 degrees N latitude. Boreal forests are found in Canada, northern Asia, Siberia and Scandinavia (Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland). About two-thirds of the world's boreal forests are found in Scandinavia. Temperate deciduous forests receive 30-60 inches of rain per year. Soil: The soil in these forests is very fertile. Plants: The forest floor in temperate deciduous forests supports mosses, ferns and wildflowers and the understory supports a variety of shrubs and ferns. Maple, oak and birch trees are some examples of the deciduous trees that dominate these forests
Biodiversity in the Boreal Forest: Trees. The boreal forest is home to a wide variety of trees species. The most common coniferous species found in the boreal forest include black and white spruce, balsam fir, jackpine, and tamarack. The most common deciduous trees found in the boreal forest include white birch, trembling aspen and balsam poplar. 
Coniferous trees are the dominant plants of the taiga biome. A very few species in four main genera are found: the evergreen spruce, fir and pine, and the deciduous larch. In North America, one or two species of fir and one or two species of spruce are dominant. There are two major types of taiga. The southern part is the closed canopy forest, consisting of many closely spaced trees with mossy ground cover. In clearings in the forest, shrubs and wildflowers are common, such as the fireweed.