The astronomer Ptolemy listed Aquarius when he made a list of 48 constellations. It is also one of the 88 modern constellations. Aquarius is a constellation also known as the Water Bearer and was a servant to the gods. He was also a human at one time. He was the son of King Tors. When he was human, his name was Ganymede. Usually when you see him in the sky, you can see him pouring water into the mouth of a fish; or Pisces. Aquarius is a constellation of the zodiac. It sits between Capricornus and Pisces. Its name is Latin for water-carrier or cup-carrier, and its symbol is (Unicode ♒), which represents water.
The brightest star in the Aquarius constellation is a rare yellow supergiant known as beta Aquarii, also known as Sadalsuud. It is 600 light-years away and has a magnitude of 2.9, which is low. Alpha Aquarii, or Sadalmelik, is a giant star located 760 light-years from Earth and has a magnitude of 2.95. As is the case with all of the Zodiac constellations, Aquarius was recorded in the second century by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy. Its name means cup bearer or water bearer in Latin.
Aquarius women are mysterious and interesting individuals blessed with unique sense of humour. Read this article to get info about personality traits and characteristics of Aquarius woman. Paradoxical and eccentric, an Aquarius woman is made up of a strange concoction that no one can seem to get over with. She is like that old half-remembered song. You neither forget it completely nor recall it wholly. You hum the song but the lyrics elude you
Aquarius lies in the region of the sky sometimes referred to as the Sea, because it contains a number of constellations with names related to water; Pisces (the fish), Eridanus (the river), and Cetus (the whale) , among others. 
It is intelligence and mental prowess that an Aquarius woman looks for in a man. She would be more than happy to get into the relationship with a man known for intellectual achievements that one who has overflowing bank balance. Read this article to get info about personality traits and characteristics of Aquarius woman. Paradoxical and eccentric, an Aquarius woman is made up of a strange concoction that no one can seem to get over with.
Aquarius includes a number of planetary nebulae, including NGC 7009, one of the brightest in the sky. It also known as the Saturn Nebula because it has a ring that resembles Saturn and was first observed in 1782 by Sir William Herschel, a German-born British astronomer. As is the case with all of the Zodiac constellations, Aquarius was recorded in the second century by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy. Its name means cup bearer or water bearer in Latin.
Ruling Planet: Uranus and Saturn. Aquarius Traits: The Aquarius-born people are humanitarians to the core. They are a progressive and modern lot. Broad-minded and creative, they are the real truth-seekers. Being affectionate and friendly by nature, the Aquarius-born are very attractive and popular. However, their frankness can cut both ways
Aquarius is a constellation of the zodiac, situated between Capricornus and Pisces. Its name is Latin for water-carrier or cup-carrier, and its symbol is (Unicode ♒), a representation of water. Aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac (the sun 's apparent path). 
AQUARIUS goes with Libra, Gemini, Sagittarius and Aries. (Best match is Libra). Known to be intelligent and entertaining, these extroverts are also known to be of a trusting nature and very loyal partners. 