Welcome Welcome to the LearnPython.org interactive Python tutorial. Whether you are an experienced programmer or not, this website is intended for everyone who wishes to learn the Python programming language. You are welcome to join our group on Facebook for questions, discussions and updates. Just click on the chapter you wish to begin from, and follow the instructions. Good luck!
The best way to learn Python is with a project. Think of a (simple) problem you want to solve and start writing the program to get to the solution. I got sucked in with Twitter bots. I have a love/hate thing for Twitter. It’s like watching a river… a river full of garbage. But it’s a great place to learn Python. How To Learn Python: Programming by Hacking was posted by Jared on. . Jared is one half of the creative force behind Dototot. In addition to writing scripts and tutorials, he draws and animates both the digital and the analog.
This video covers setting up a system variable for using python from the windows command prompt and also covers using python from the built in IDLE IDE. After setting up the development an environment this video demonstrates how to create and run your first python script (Hello World). 
Perhaps after 6 months it would be reasonable to delete them. Learning Python (for the complete nOOb) by Derrick Wolters. A beginner's tutorial to learn how to program in Python. (Python 2) -- 1/3/14: This is a dead link and a quick but very limited Google search turned up nothing. It is available on the wayback machine, however-Wayback Machine. The Python tips blog includes Python tips and tutorials for beginners and professional programmers. There is a Python Tutorial in Python's documentation set. It's not written with non-programmers in mind, but it will give you an idea of the language's flavor and style. It is available for both Python 2 and Python 3.
1 OS X and Linux come with Python already installed. 2  You will not need to install any Python-related software, but you may want to install a text editor. 3  Most Linux distributions and OS X versions still use Python 2.X. 4  There are a few minor differences between 2 & 3, most notably the changes to the print statement. The Windows Python interpreter can be downloaded for free from the Python website. Make sure to download the correct version for your operating system. 1  You should download the latest version available, which was 3.4 at the time of this writing.
The Python Tutorial ¶. Python is an easy to learn, powerful programming language. It has efficient high-level data structures and a simple but effective approach to object-oriented programming. The same site also contains distributions of and pointers to many free third party Python modules, programs and tools, and additional documentation. The Python interpreter is easily extended with new functions and data types implemented in C or C++ (or other languages callable from C).
Python is a very simple language, and has a very straightforward syntax. It encourages programmers to program without boilerplate (prepared) code. The simplest directive in Python is the print directive-it simply prints out a line (and also includes a newline, unlike in C). In Python 2, the print statement is not a function, and therefore it is invoked without parentheses. However, in Python 3, it is a function, and must be invoked with parentheses. To print a string, just write: print This line will be printed..
try searching python.org-you can find anything mentioned on the Python site, in the FAQs, or in the newsgroup. More info: where to search. You may also try our external guest project, pydoc.net, for advanced package and module search. Next, try Google or other search engine of your choice. Searching for python and some relevant keywords will usually find something helpful. 1  Finally, you can try posting a query to the comp.lang.python Usenet group. Next, install the Python interpreter on your computer. This is the program that reads Python programs and carries out their instructions; you need it before you can do any Python programming.
The Python Tutorial ¶. Python is an easy to learn, powerful programming language. It has efficient high-level data structures and a simple but effective approach to object-oriented programming. The same site also contains distributions of and pointers to many free third party Python modules, programs and tools, and additional documentation. The Python interpreter is easily extended with new functions and data types implemented in C or C++ (or other languages callable from C).