The American hornbeam is also occasionally known as blue-beech, ironwood, or musclewood, the first from the resemblance of the bark to that of the American beech Fagus grandifolia, the other two from the hardness of the wood and the muscular appearance of the trunk, respectively. 
Why it rocks: American Hornbeam is a widely adaptable ornamental, or small shade tree, with outstanding gold to bright orange-red fall foliage. This native tree is also known as Blue Beech, Ironwood, and Musclewood; names inspired by the smooth, gray, irregularly fluted trunk. 
American hornbeam is a wonderful addition to small yards, and is also perfect for a natural landscape or as a specimen tree. The hard wood of American hornbeam is used to make golf clubs, tool handles and mallets. American hornbeam is more difficult to transplant than European hornbeam. The shape of the bud is an identifying difference between the American hornbeam and the closely related European hornbeam (Carpinus betulus). European hornbeam has a curved bud. American hornbeam has a straight bud. The largest known American hornbeam in the U.S. is 69 feet tall and 2½ feet in diameter.
Introduction: A fine-textured tree that is related to the birches, American hornbeam is the only North American native of the genus Carpinus. The trunk and branches of this tree have ridges that look like muscles. American hornbeam is a wonderful addition to a natural landscape. The shape of the bud is an identifying difference between the American hornbeam and the closely related European hornbeam (Carpinus betulus). European hornbeam has a curved bud. American hornbeam has a straight bud. The largest known American hornbeam in the U.S. is 69 feet tall and 2½ feet in diameter.
The upper altitudinal limit of American hornbeam is 910 m (3,000 ft) in the Great Smoky Mountains ' but it is much more common at about 490 in (1,600 ft) (59). Concentrations of potassium, nitrogen, calcium, and phosphorus in the foliage of the species are low in comparison to those of other species (2). Special Uses. American hornbeam is an important food of gray squirrels in southern bottom-land hardwoods; otherwise it is of secondary importance to wildlife (25). Seeds, buds, or catkins are eaten by a number of songbirds, ruffed grouse, ring-necked pheasants, bobwhite, turkey, and fox and gray squirrels.
Noteworthy Characteristics. American hop hornbeam is a deciduous, Missouri native tree which usually occurs in dry soils on rocky slopes, upland woods and bluffs throughout the State. A small to medium-sized, understory tree with a generally rounded crown. Typically grows 25-40' tall with a slightly smaller spread
F. T. Metzger. American hornbeam (Carpinus caroliniana), also called blue-beech, ironwood, water-beech, or lechillo (Spanish), is a small slow-growing short-lived tree in the understory of eastern mixed hardwood forests. Special Uses. American hornbeam is an important food of gray squirrels in southern bottom-land hardwoods; otherwise it is of secondary importance to wildlife (25). Seeds, buds, or catkins are eaten by a number of songbirds, ruffed grouse, ring-necked pheasants, bobwhite, turkey, and fox and gray squirrels.
American hornbeam. The American hornbeam is a native forest understory tree in the Chicago area, making it useful for shady landscapes and naturalized or woodland gardens. New leaves emerge reddish-purple, changing to dark green, then turn yellow to orange-red in the fall, offering a kaleidoscope of color throughout the year. 
Comments. Submit. The American Hornbeam (Caroliniana) is generally described as a perennial tree or shrub. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer. The American Hornbeam (Caroliniana) is easily found in nurseries, garden stores and other plant dealers and distributors. It can be propagated by bare root, container, seed. It has a slow ability to spread through seed production and the seedlings have low vigor.