From the Slavic elements kresu spark, light, rouse and miru peace, world. This was the name of four kings of Croatia. 
1 KIP: Variant spelling of Middle English Kipp, possibly meaning fat man.. 2  KIPP: Middle English name, possibly originally a byname meaning fat man, from the Germanic root kupp, meaning to swell.. 3  KIR (ки́р): Russian name meaning master, ruler.. 4  KIRABO: African Lugandan unisex name meaning gift.. 1 KIPP: Middle English name, possibly originally a byname meaning fat man, from the Germanic root kupp, meaning to swell.. 2  KIR (ки́р): Russian name meaning master, ruler.. 3  KIRABO: African Lugandan unisex name meaning gift.. 4  KIRAN (किर 5 ): Hindi name meaning sun rays..
*To note: : It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic... Kreimir and Emerentius enjoy power, like to be in charge and are therefore quite authoritarian. They adore physical exercise, and are very concerned about their social standing, being rather materialistic chaps.
Kreimir and Emerentius are enigmatic creatures, and this is in large part due to their nervous disposition. As children, these changing moods are even more pronounced and certain limits will definitely need to be established. Kreimir and Emerentius enjoy power, like to be in charge and are therefore quite authoritarian. They adore physical exercise, and are very concerned about their social standing, being rather materialistic chaps.
Kresimir is primarily used in Slavic and its language of origin is Slavonic. The name Kresimir means cross of peace. It is derived from the word ' mir ' with the meaning peace. A form of Kresimir is the Slavic diminutive Kreso. Kresimir is not popular as a baby boy name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Kresimir include the names the name Krishnamurari and the name Cramir