There are two types of respiration aerobic and anaerobic. Anaerobic is respiration when oxygen is not present and occurs in the cytoplasm. Aerobic respiration occurs in cells when oxygen is present and at least part of the process occurs in the mitochondria. ANAEROBIC RESPIRATION. Anaerobic respiration begins with glucose in the cell. A glucose molecule that has 6 carbons is broken down into 2 PGAL (phosphoglyceraldehyde).
Some organisms do not need as much energy as others and sometimes the conditions do not allow for aerobic respiration run successfully. In these situations it may be necessary for organisms to run a process known as anaerobic (literally meaning without oxygen) respiration. Anaerobic respiration occurs when the amount of oxygen available is too low to support the process of aerobic respiration. 
During glycolysis, glucose molecules (six-carbon molecules) are split into two pyruvates (three-carbon molecules) during a sequence of enzyme-controlled reactions. This is the same reaction as occurs in aerobic respiration. 
It can be aerobic respiration in the presence of oxygen or anaerobic respiration. Prokaryotic cells carry out cellular respiration within the cytoplasm or on the inner surfaces of the cells. More emphasis here will be placed on eukaryotic cells where the mitochondria are the site of most of the reactions. 
Diffen › Science › Biology. Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs. Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors. Cells that use it. Aerobic respiration occurs in most cells.
Posted on. (Answer #1). Anaerobic respiration occurs in the cytoplasm of cells. In anaerobic respiration the six carbon sugar glucose is broken down into two three-carbon molecules called pyruvate. This process converts ADP into ATP, which is the cell's energy storage molecule. In yeast, anaerobic respiration results in the production of ethanol, which is a type of alchohol. 
Just like we need energy to get through the day, individual cells need energy for survival too. Cellular respiration is the process by which cells get their energy in the form of ATP. There are two types of cellular respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient and can be utilized in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not require oxygen. The second step in anaerobic respiration is called fermentation. Fermentation starts with pyruvate (the end product of glycolysis). Depending on the organism, pyruvate can either be fermented into ethanol (a fancy name for alcohol) or lactate (lactic acid).
Not to be confused with Lactic acid fermentation. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system.