Barbara is a female given name used in numerous languages. It is the feminine form of the Greek word barbaros (Greek: βαρβαρος) meaning foreign. In Spanish, Portuguese and Italian it means barbarian or barbaric. In Italy Barbara was particularly popular during the 1970s: it is among the top 10 names given to girls born from 1969 to 1977, rising to 2nd place (behind Maria) in 1971. In the same year it was the most common name for girls born in Rome and in Bologna.
Barbara is of Latin origin, and it is used mainly in the English, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, Polish, Slavic, and Spanish languages. The name is of the meaning 'foreign woman'. It is derived from barbari meaning ' foreign, stammering people' ; barbaros 'foreign, barbaric' ; barbar 'unintelligible speech'. Barbara is an all-time favorite. Currently it is still somewhat popular as a baby name for girls, though it was in more widespread use in the past. Its usage peaked in 1938 with 3.440% of baby girls being given the name Barbara. Its ranking then was #2.
Barbara /bar-bara/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced BAR-bra. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Barbara is foreign woman. The adjective was originally applied to anyone who did not speak Greek; it has the same root as barbarian. 
Meaning & History. Derived from Greek βαρβαρος (barbaros) meaning foreign. According to legend, Saint Barbara was a young woman killed by her father Dioscorus, who was then killed by a bolt of lightning. She is the patron of architects, geologists, stonemasons and artillerymen. Because of her renown, the name came into general use in the Christian world in the Middle Ages.
Meaning of Barbara. English name. In English, the name Barbara means-From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land. Popular in medieval Britain after the 3rd century martyr St Barbara. In Catholic custom St. Barbara is a protectress against fire and lightning.. Other origins for the name Barbara include-English, Latin-American.The name Barbara is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land. Popular in medieval Britain after the 3rd century martyr St Barbara
English Meaning: The name Barbara is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land. Popular in medieval Britain after the 3rd century martyr St Barbara. American Meaning: The name Barbara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land.
What does Barbara mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Barbara is of Latin origin. The meaning of Barbara is foreigner, stranger, traveler from a foreign land. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.