Tags: height, bathroom, height wainscot, around room, determine height, height vanity, height vanity backsplash, vanity backsplash, wainscot around, wainscot bathroom. Wainscot in a bathroom can complement or contrast with walls above it. Wainscots are attractive design elements in many homes. Similar to the way you can run a wainscot around the bathroom based on the height of the vanity backsplash, you can do the same thing for a wainscot that uses a shower pattern to determine the height, as long as it isn't more than halfway up the wall. Posted by Mark Suckerberg at 8:35 PM.
Backsplash Height. An alternative height for the wainscot in a bathroom is the same height as the vanity backsplash. Bathroom vanities always have some form of backsplash. It's usually a row of tiles. Carrying the wainscot around the room at this height gives the room a planned, cohesive look. Similar to the way you can run a wainscot around the bathroom based on the height of the vanity backsplash, you can do the same thing for a wainscot that uses a shower pattern to determine the height, as long as it isn't more than halfway up the wall. Posted by Mark Suckerberg at 8:35 PM.
Multiplying that total by the height of your wainscoting or tile (32 inches, or 2.66 feet, standard wainscot height, for example) yields the square footage of your project (24 x 2.66 = 63.84, or 64 square feet). Wood wainscoting and tile both protect bathroom walls from potential water damage. One of the challenges of bathroom decor is its constant exposure to water. Both paneling and tiling can do a good job of preventing water penetration.
An alternative height for the wainscot in a bathroom is the same height as the vanity backsplash. Bathroom vanities always have some form of backsplash. It's usually a row of tiles. Similar to the way you can run a wainscot around the bathroom based on the height of the vanity backsplash, you can do the same thing for a wainscot that uses a shower pattern to determine the height, as long as it isn't more than halfway up the wall. Posted by Mark Suckerberg at 8:35 PM.
6,254 Saves | 19 Questions. Wainscoting. Tile or wood wainscoting in bathrooms is set to standard height at 45 to 48 inches. This typically allows for the vanity or cabinets to be placed just under for a clean, uniform look. Photo of a transitional bathroom. — Houzz. 11,011 Saves | 8 Questions. Use beadboard as wainscoting in a bathroom to give it a nautical feel. Tip: An easy way to work out wainscoting height is to divide the height of the room into three, then cut your boards to two-thirds the height of the room. Photo of a traditional bathroom in Calgary.
1 This height also adds a design element that is gaining popularity in bathroom remodels. 2  Just like their wood cousins, tile wainscot can be capped with a decorative chair rail in wood or tile. 3  The use of accent tile, and mosaics, can break up a plain field and add texture and color. This guide will help you decide how high to tile in your bathroom. Standard Tub and Shower Walls. The minimum code height for a tub or shower enclosure's water proof covering is 6' above the finished floor height.
While there is no single standard height for wainscoting in a bathroom, the typical height range is from 38-to-42 inches off the ground, or taller than the vanity or sink. A height range of 48-to-54 inches is also common, since the higher the wainscoting, the more protection it offers. Bathroom wainscoting keeps water from damaging the lower parts of walls. Wainscoting in the bathroom is decorative, but it also helps protect the walls from splashes of water, especially near the sink.
1 Tile wainscot: The next level up the wall provides some additional protection above the baseboard level. 2  This height also adds a design element that is gaining popularity in bathroom remodels. 3  Just like their wood cousins, tile wainscot can be capped with a decorative chair rail in wood or tile. This guide will help you decide how high to tile in your bathroom. Standard Tub and Shower Walls. The minimum code height for a tub or shower enclosure's water proof covering is 6' above the finished floor height.
Yes 32 is a standard height for wainscoting, but so is 24, 30, 36 and actually any height you desire. It really depends upon what the look is you desire. You could pick the height of something in the room like the top of the back splash or the bottom of the mirror and go with that line. I've installed wainscoting from 32 to 60 depending on the look they wanted and the ceiling height. The 32 dimension allows a carpenter to cut a 4x8 sheet of wainscot paneling into 3 sections: 32 x 48. Thus, the 32 height utilizes the use of materials better.