1 Balance transfer fees A 3% charge is not uncommon for transferring the balance on your old credit card to a new one, usually to get a lower interest rate. 2  For every $1,000, it would cost you $30. 3  Transfer $10,000 and you could pay $300.
The number of months it will take to pay your credit card balance in full, given the monthly payment amount you plan to make, along with your estimated monthly purchases. When estimating your monthly charges, be sure to include any annual fees or other fees charged by the card issuer.
Calculate how long it will take to payoff your credit card and the amount of interest you will be paying. Add this personal financing calculator to your site to keep your customers coming back. This credit card payoff calculator will integrate right into your existing website automatically.
1 Or, pay off the card with the smallest balance first, then take the money you were paying for that debt and use it to pay down the next smallest balance. 2  Pay more than the minimum. 3  Look at your credit card statement.
If you start by paying $150 on a credit card, keep on paying at least $150 each and every month until the card is paid off. Be sure to stick with your boosted payment amount even as your balance and minimum payments slip lower and lower. Remember: the aim is to get your balance to zero.
Once you pay off the card with the lowest balance, you move on to the card with the next lowest balance, and so on. It’s quicker and easier to pay a $500 balance down to zero than a $2,500 balance. And it feels good to pay a credit card bill in full, no matter what size balance you begin with.
Making minimum payments only, it would take you 22 years and $5,887 in interest payments to pay off this debt. Increasing your payments to $125 a month would allow you to pay off the same debt in less than 6 years and spend only $1,775 in interest. Not only does increasing your payments allow you to pay off the balance sooner, you also save money
The higher your interest rate and the longer it takes you to pay off your balance, the more interest you pay. For example, if it takes you a year to pay off a $1,000 balance with 15% APR, you'll pay $69.73 in interest. We could all make much better use of $70.