Learners can then take their test at 18 and, if they pass, will get a probationary licence and have to display a green P plate. During this stage, drivers will face the curfew and all those under 30 will be banned from carrying any passengers also under 30.
The road test—also referred to as a driving test, behind-the-wheel exam, road exam, and others—is a behind-the-wheel driving skills test administered by your state DMV or related agency. In most cases, you must successfully pass a road test in order to get your driver's license.
Learners can then take their test at 18 and, if they pass, will get a probationary licence and have to display a green P plate. During this stage, drivers will face the curfew and all those under 30 will be banned from carrying any passengers also under 30.
Age Requirements. 1  15 1/2 years old: Must take driver's education to get a learner's permit. 2  16 years old: Eligible for a provisional license (with completion of driver's education). 3  17 1/2 years old: Allowed to apply for a provisional permit without taking driver's education.
Drivers Age 79 or Older. In addition to the regular driver license renewal requirements, individuals 79 years of age or older must meet extra requirements to renew their license. Note: ID cards for individuals 60 years of age and older do not expire.
It is commonly thought that you need to retake your driving test at the age of 70. But in actual fact you only need to renew your license at the age of 70 and never need to retake your test. The relevant forms you will need to complete and return are the D46P (for paper licences) or the D46 (for photocard licences).
1 This driving must be done with a driver at least 21 years of age who has had a valid license for at least three years. 2  You must certify your driving experience when you apply. 3  This requirement does not apply if you submit a valid driver license from another state.
Provisional Permit: Age 17 1/2. So you're at least 17 1/2 years old and you haven't had your 18th birthday yet. That means the process is a little easier for you than younger first-time drivers. You still need to get a Provisional Permit to drive, but you are no longer required to take a CA Driver's Ed course.