SYMBOLISM OF THE DRAGONFLY. Symbolism of Dragonflies As a creature of the wind, the dragonlfy totem represents change. It's iridescent wings are incredibly sensitive to the slightest breeze, and so we are reminded to heed where the proverbial wind blows-lest we run into stormy weather. 
Animal Symbolism: Meaning of the Dragonfly. Symbolic Meanings of the Dragonfly. As a creature of the wind, the dragonlfy totem represents change. It's iridescent wings are incredibly sensitive to the slightest breeze, and so we are reminded to heed where the proverbial wind blows-lest we run into stormy weather. Dragonflies are also creatures of the water, and any creature whose habitat is in, or around water carries symbolism relative the the subconscious, or dreaming mind and thoughts.
The Meaning of the Dragonfly Symbol The meaning of the Dragonfly symbol was to signify happiness, speed and purity. The dragonfly also represents transformation and life's ever constant process of change. The Dragonfly Symbol-Meaning There were so many tribes of Native American Indians it is only possible to generalise the most common meaning of the Dragonfly symbol or pattern.
Symbolic Dragonfly Meaning... by Presley Love Just a few of the mystical symbolic meanings of this gorgeous Dragonfly totem animal are the gifts of pure potential, the magic of illusion the energies of expression. The spiritual meaning of the Dragonfly totem symbolizes going past self-created illusions that limit growth and change. Dragonflies are the embodiment of color magic, and transformation.
Dragonfly Meaning ~ The Mysteries of the Dragonfly. Dragonfly symbolism reveals how to get beyond illusions, dragonfly totem teaches the magic of shifting vibrations with the use of color and shows us the path to new worlds as she dances in and out of mystical portals. The spiritual meaning of the Dragonfly totem symbolizes going past self-created illusions that limit growth and change. Dragonflies are the embodiment of color magic, and transformation.
The dragonfly has been a subject of intrigue in every single continent it is found in, and with each civilization, has developed a unique meaning to it, its behavior and its lifestyle. The word Dragonfly has its source in the myth that Dragonflies were once Dragons. The family name Odonata comes from the Greek word for tooth as Odonates were believed to have teeth, it is a verified fact now that while they don t have teeth per say, they have strong mandibles that they use to crush their prey.
The word Dragonfly and the family it belongs to, Odonata, have evolved from the many myths associated with Dragonflies and their taxonomic cousins, the Damselflies. The word Dragonfly has its source in the myth that Dragonflies were once Dragons. The family name Odonata comes from the Greek word for tooth as Odonates were believed to have teeth, it is a verified fact now that while they don t have teeth per say, they have strong mandibles that they use to crush their prey.
The meaning of a dragonfly changes with each culture. The main symbolisms of the dragonfly are renewal, positive force and the power of life in general. Dragonflies can also be a symbol of the sense of self that comes with maturity. Also, as a creature of the wind, the dragonfly frequently represents change. And as a dragonfly lives a short life, it knows it must live its life to the fullest with the short time it has-which is a lesson for all of us. 
The dragonfly, in almost every part of the world symbolizes change and change in the perspective of self realization; and the kind of change that has its source in mental and emotional maturity and the understanding of the deeper meaning of life. The word Dragonfly has its source in the myth that Dragonflies were once Dragons. The family name Odonata comes from the Greek word for tooth as Odonates were believed to have teeth, it is a verified fact now that while they don t have teeth per say, they have strong mandibles that they use to crush their prey.