Rub each potato with a thin coating of olive oil (about a 1/4 teaspoon) and place potatoes on toaster oven baking rack. Return potato topped rack to the preheated toaster oven and bake potatoes at 400 F for 45 minutes. Depending on their size your potatoes may take less or more time. I would start checking around 40 minutes for smaller potatoes.
1 Place in a bowl and coat lightly with oil. 2  Sprinkle with kosher salt and place potato directly on rack in middle of oven. 3  Place a baking sheet (I put a piece of aluminum foil) on the lower rack to catch any drippings. 4  Bake 1 hour or until skin feels crisp but flesh beneath feels soft. 1 Wash potato (or potatoes) thoroughly with a stiff brush and cold running water. 2  Dry, then using a standard fork poke 8 to 12 deep holes all over the spud so that moisture can escape during cooking. 3  Place in a bowl and coat lightly with oil. 4
Oven-Baked Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Oven. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Wrap each potato in foil and lay it in the bottom of your slow cooker. Place the lid over top and set your slow cooker to LOW for eight to 10 hours. → Bottom line: Potatoes that bake while you're at work. 3. Slow-Cooker Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Slow Cooker. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Wrap each potato in foil and lay it in the bottom of your slow cooker.
1 Bake the potatoes: You can bake the potatoes directly on the oven rack, or you can place them a few inches apart on a foil-lined baking sheet. 2  Bake the potatoes for 50 to 60 minutes. 3  Flip them over every 20 minutes or so and check them for doneness by piercing them with a fork. 1 Heat the oven to 425°F: Turn on the oven while you're preparing the potatoes. 2  Scrub the potatoes clean: Scrub the potatoes thoroughly under running water and pat them dry. 3  You don't have to remove the eyes, but trim away any blemishes with a paring knife.
2. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Place all the potatoes on a microwave-safe dish and microwave at full power for five minutes. Turn them over and microwave for another three to five minutes. 3. Slow-Cooker Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Slow Cooker. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Wrap each potato in foil and lay it in the bottom of your slow cooker. Place the lid over top and set your slow cooker to LOW for eight to 10 hours. → Bottom line: Potatoes that bake while you're at work
Place in a bowl and coat lightly with oil. Sprinkle with kosher salt and place potato directly on rack in middle of oven. Place a baking sheet on the lower rack to catch any drippings. Bake 1 hour or until skin feels crisp but flesh beneath feels soft. Heat oven to 350 degrees and position racks in top and bottom thirds. Wash potato (or potatoes) thoroughly with a stiff brush and cold running water. Dry, then using a standard fork poke 8 to 12 deep holes all over the spud so that moisture can escape during cooking.
45 minutes at 400 degrees F. 60 minutes at 350 degrees F. 90 minutes at 325 degrees F. Place the potato directly on the oven rack in a preheated oven. Place a baking sheet (I put a piece of aluminum foil) on the lower rack (below the potatoes) to catch any drippings. For a soft potato skin, rub the outside of the potato with olive oil, vegetable oil, or butter over the skins. I like to roll the potatoes in coarse or sea salt after rolling in the oil and before baking. Place coarse salt onto a small plate. Roll potatoes lightly in the salt.
DON’T! You’ll end up with the potato getting steamed in the foil instead of just baked. You may as well just cook it in the microwave. Place the potato directly on the oven rack. Bake for 40 to 60 minutes, depending upon the size of the potato. Potatoes are as hard as a brick when they are raw. By the time it’s cooked you’ll be able to squeeze it. 
Directions. 1  Heat oven to 400° F. Pierce each sweet potato several times with the tines of a fork. 2  Place the sweet potatoes on a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil. 3  Bake until tender, about 45 minutes. 4  Make a slit in the top of each sweet potato. 5  Top with 1 tablespoon of butter and season with the salt and pepper. 