According to UrbanSitter's 2014 Childcare Rate Survey of nine large metro areas, the average babysitter wage paid in New York City is $15.34 per hour while in Denver it's $10.84 per hour.
The older and more experienced the babysitter, the more you can expect to pay. Sitters between the ages of 11 and 14 may be happy with $4 or $5 an hour. Sitters in this age group should be easily reachable by phone, so ask them to carry a cell phone or stay within range of the home phone.
Sometimes people in need of a babysitter already have a rate that they pay, so you should ask them. You may get more depending on the age of the children, how many children, and how long you are babysitting for. I babysat for 4 or 5 hours for a 4, 5, and 11 year old and I got 20 bucks.
Experience Pays. Rates also depend on the babysitter’s experience level. Teens just entering the job market may be thrilled to earn $5 an hour; experienced sitters, babysitters with college degrees related to child development, or babysitters holding first-aid and CPR licenses may expect a minimum of $10 per hour.
On average, you should expect to make between $250 and $400 per week as a less experienced babysitter. If you have an educational background related to childcare or another job-relevant field, you may be able to receive higher babysitter pay even with less experience.
1 If you live in a big city, expect to pay more for a babysitter than someone who lives in the suburbs or a rural area. 2  Higher cost of living = higher wages. 3  For example, San Francisco babysitters cost $16.55 per hour and are the most expensive sitters in the country.
If you have been a babysitter for less than two years, you should expect to be in the lower end of the pay scale. If you have been a babysitter for 10 or more years, you should expect to be in the upp
A study conducted by Care.com looked at average babysitter pay in 75 cities. Not surprisingly, cities with higher costs of living saw a higher hourly average. San Francisco babysitters should be paid $16.65 an hour according to the study. Care.com also has a calculator on their website where you can plug in your zip code, how many years of experience you want from a babysitter and how many hours you're likely to pay for. Click here to check it out.