The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef system composed of over 2,900 individual reefs and 900 islands stretching for over 2,300 kilometres (1,400 mi) over an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland, Australia. The Great Barrier Reef can be seen from outer space and is the world's biggest single structure made by living organisms. This reef structure is composed of and built by billions of tiny organisms, known as coral polyps.
The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland in northeast Australia. A large part of the reef is protected by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. Tropical cyclones are a cause of ecological disturbance to the Great Barrier Reef. The types of damage caused by tropical cyclones to the Great Barrier Reef is varied, including fragmentation, sediment plumes, and decreasing salinity following heavy rains (Cyclone Joy).
The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest reef system, composed of roughly 3,000 individual reefs and 900 islands that stretch for 2,600 kilometres (1,616 mi) and cover an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). Tropical cyclones are a cause of ecological disturbance to the Great Barrier Reef. The types of damage caused by tropical cyclones to the Great Barrier Reef is varied, including fragmentation, sediment plumes, and decreasing salinity following heavy rains (Cyclone Joy).
The Great Barrier Reef has long been known to and used by the Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, and is an important part of local groups' cultures and spirituality. The reef is a very popular destination for tourists, especially in the Whitsunday Islands and Cairns regions. The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland, Australia. The Great Barrier Reef can be seen from outer space and is the world's biggest single structure made by living organisms. This reef structure is composed of and built by billions of tiny organisms, known as coral polyps.
The Great Barrier Reef Outlook Report 2009 identified climate change as one of the greatest threats to the long-term health of the Great Barrier Reef. Climate change may affect the Reef in a number of ways, including: 1  Increased frequency of severe weather events. 2  Ocean acidification. 3  Rising sea temperature. 
Image courtesy of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The Great Barrier Reef is the only living organic collective visible from Earth's orbit. The Great Barrier Reef, off the east coast of Australia, is one of the wonders of the natural world-it is the world's largest coral reef ecosystem. It was declared a World Heritage area in 1981 and added to the National Heritage List in 2007. The Great Barrier Reef system consists of more than 3000 reefs which range in size from 1 hectare to over 10,000 hectares in area. Dunk Island is one of more than 600 islands of the Great Barrier Reef. Human activity in the Reef areas has led to increased pollutants and the reef has suffered damage.
The Great Barrier Reef is one of the seven wonders of the natural world, and a United Nations World Heritage Site. It is also a huge tourist attraction—worth around U.S. $6.4 billion ($6.9 billion in Australian dollars) annually to the Australian economy. Australia's Great Barrier Reef—the world's largest coral reef—is a unique marine ecosystem threatened by global warming. Damage to the reef could harm the region's biodiversity, tourism, and fisheries. 1  The reef has suffered eight mass coral bleaching events since 1979, triggered by unusually high water temperatures.
Great Barrier Reef. The Great Barrier Reef is an ocean ecosystem that can be seen from space. Estimated to have existed for 250 million years, the Great Barrier Reef and its multitude of marine life are immersed in a challenge that has the entire system on the brink of extinction. But the world's reefs, like the world's rainforests, are declining. The Great Barrier Reef is not the only coral ecosystem endangered. All of the world's coral reefs are struggling to survive. The Christian Science Monitor reported in early 2009 that growth of the coral in the Great Barrier Reef is slowing.
Threats to the Great Barrier Reef. There are growing threats to the Great Barrier Reef, with the most serious being climate change, catchment pollution, coastal development, and fishing. WWF is working hard to impress upon our governments the need for urgent action to address climate change globally. 