“This disk, with emphasis on ‘Blue Moon,’ is stepping out and starting to move,” Billboard reported. Elvis’s version of the song entered Billboard’s “Top 100” chart at #87 on September 29, 1956. It’s chart performance ranks as the most unusual among all of Presley’s chart records during his career. I was amazed when Elvis’s recording of Blue Moon was used in the soundtrack. My whole attitude toward the song changed that night. Part of it was psychological. If some producer thought the recording was worthy enough to use in a major Hollywood movie, then it must be better than I thought.
By October 23, Blue Moon was in the top 10 in Memphis, Nashville, and New Orleans, with That's All Right absent from the listings. Fellow Sun Records artist Charlie Feathers has often claimed that he came up with the arrangement of the song used by Presley. The pop jockeys, entranced by something new, began slipping That's All Right and Blue Moon of Kentucky in amongst the easy listening pop of Teresa Brewer, Nat Cole, Tony Bennett and others. With Presley's version of Monroe's song consistently rated higher, both sides began to chart across the Southern United States.
Scotty Moore, the guitarist, started vamping and kind of playing around on an up-tempo—a 2/4 version of Bill Monroe's famous waltz, Blue Moon of Kentucky.. And Elvis, of course, knew the song, he loved it and fell right in with it.. Smith says Sun producer Sam Phillips was crazy about what he heard. He. emerged from the backwoods of Kentucky to fashion a new kind of country music that came to be called bluegrass. But one of the songs he wrote served as a bridge to places beyond his rural culture. Blue Moon of Kentucky was adopted by musicians of various style from Elvis Presley to Ray Charles.
Blue Moon is track #11 on the album Elvis Presley. It was written by Hart, Lorenz / Rodgers, Richard. Blue Moon is track #11 on the album Elvis Presley.
History [edit]. Blue Moon is the official bluegrass song of Kentucky. In 2002, Monroe's version was one of 50 recordings chosen that year by the Library of Congress to be added to the National Recording Registry. In 2003, CMT ranked Blue Moon number 11 in its list of 100 Greatest Songs in Country Music. The pop jockeys, entranced by something new, began slipping That's All Right and Blue Moon of Kentucky in amongst the easy listening pop of Teresa Brewer, Nat Cole, Tony Bennett and others. With Presley's version of Monroe's song consistently rated higher, both sides began to chart across the Southern United States.
Song Review by Ken Dryden. “Blue Moon,” with music by Richard Rodgers and lyrics by Lorenz Hart, began life as “Prayer,” written while the songwriting team was under contract to MGM, with the intention for actress Jean Harlow to sing the latter song in the movie Hollywood Party. Neither Harlow nor “Prayer” appeared in the film. Vocal interpretations are available by Ella Fitzgerald, Mel Torme, the doo-wop group The Marcels and Dean Martin, among others. But among the general public, Elvis Presley’s record of “Blue Moon” may be the best known.
It happened in 1990, when my wife and I were watching the Tom Hanks/Meg Ryan film, Joe Versus the Volcano, at a local theater. I was amazed when Elvis’s recording of Blue Moon was used in the soundtrack. My whole attitude toward the song changed that night. Part of it was psychological. If some producer thought the recording was worthy enough to use in a major Hollywood movie, then it must be better than I thought.
Blue Moon's first crossover recording to rock and roll came from Elvis Presley in 1956. His cover version of the song was included on his self-titled debut album Elvis Presley, issued on RCA Records. Presley's remake of Blue Moon was the B-side to the single Just Because. It was produced by Sam Phillips. For the song by Steve Holy, see Blue Moon (Steve Holy song) .  Blue Moon  is a classic popular song written by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart in 1934, and has become a standard ballad. The song was a hit twice in 1949 with successful recordings by Billy Eckstine and Mel Torme. tormé