Directions. Fill a cocktail shaker with ice. Pour the vodka, gin, rum, tequila, Triple Sec, and lemon juice into the shaker. Cover and shake vigorously to combine and chill. Pour the mixture, ice and all, into 2 glasses or beer mugs and top off with the cola. Garnish with lemon wedges. Serve.
This delicious 75-proof product contains rum, gin, vodka, tequila and triple sec. Just add cola and sweet and sour mix for a convenient, consistent, cost-efficient Long Island Iced Tea in a fraction of the time! 1  Send to friend. 
You can usually substitute lemon juice or a 50/50 mix of lemon and lime juice to your liking. One of the latest entries in the pre-mixed cocktail world, Captain Morgan Long Island Iced Tea 1 is posing itself as the company’s summer drink for 2011 along with its usual fare of “strike a pose”-inducing rums. Long Island Iced Tea 1⁄2 oz. gin 1⁄2 oz. rum 1⁄2 oz. tequila 1⁄2 oz. vodka 1⁄2 oz. triple sec 1⁄2 oz. lemon juice* 1⁄2 oz. simple syrup Coke (or similarly cola-like soda) Add ingredients to a Highball or Collins glass with 3-4 ice cubes and stir. Top off with Coke, from a “splash” to 2 oz. or so, to taste and color
This delicious 75-proof product contains rum, gin, vodka, tequila and triple sec. Just add cola and sweet and sour mix for a convenient, consistent, cost-efficient Long Island Iced Tea in a fraction of the time! Browse all 2 Barton's Long Island Mix Drink Recipes. Visit the Barton's Long Island Mix Home Page (external). Copyright 1995-2013 Bar None Drink Recipes
Mix 1 Lipton Ice Teasers according to directions and then add 1 cup of each of the following: Rum, Triple Sec, Vodka, Gin, Sweet & Sour. This is the best version of Long Island Ice Tea I have ever had. One will give you a buzz, two and you are high. The Long Island Iced Tea (LIIT) is the basis of many elaborate mixed-drinks. It dates to the 70's, named after the continental USA's largest island Long Island, in New York.
The average cost of a Long Island iced tea is $10. The prices may vary in different localities and depending on size and type of bar. Long island iced tea is a highball made with vodka, gin, tequila, and rum, among other ingredients. Normally, these items and triple sec, an orange-flavored liqueur, are mixed in equal proportions with 1-1/2 parts sour mix and a splash of cola. In some cases, the cola is replaced by actual iced tea. However, most variants do not comprise any tea, despite the name of the drink.
After many attempts, his combination of premium vodka, rum, tequila, triple sec, citrus juices and a splash of cola was completed. Voila! The Long Island Ice Tea Cocktail was created. 
It is Binny's policy not to ship alcohol to certain states where direct shipment is prohibited and therefore, our website will not let you place an order for shipment to Minnesota, Virginia, Michigan, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, North Carolina, Tennessee, Utah, Washington, West Virginia and other states. 