Though outwardly the amelogenesis imperfect and the enamel hypoplasia seems similar but the cause varies. The amelogenesis imperfect is hereditary while the enamel hypoplasia has many causes like in can be because if nutritional deficiency or high fever or some sort of trauma. Enamel Hypoplasia. Enamel Hypoplasia is the most common abnormality of development and mineralization of human teeth. The lesion is characterized by a quantitative defect in enamel tissue resulting from an undetermined metabolic injury to the formative cells – the ameloblasts.
Description of Hereditary enamel hypoplasia. Hereditary enamel hypoplasia (medical condition): A rare genetic disorder characterized by defective tooth enamel.... Hereditary enamel hypoplasia: Hereditary enamel hypoplasia is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Dental conditions. 2  Oral conditions. 3  Head conditions.
The defect can be a small pit or dent in the tooth or can be so widespread that the entire tooth is small and/or mis-shaped. This type of defect may cause tooth sensitivity, may be unsightly or may be more susceptible to dental cavities. Some genetic disorders cause all the teeth to have enamel hypoplasia. 
Enamel hypoplasia can occur on 1 tooth or many teeth. It can appear white, yellow, or brown in color with a rough or pitted surface. In some cases the quality of enamel is affected as well as the quantity of enamel. Some genetic disorders cause all teeth to have enamel hypoplasia.
1 Environmental type enamel hypoplasia: This condition is associated with a host of environmental factors (i.e. not genetic or hereditary) , which include, 2  Nutritional deficiency of vitamins including vitamin A, vitamin C and vitamin D. Enamel hypoplasia can be categorized into two basic types, based on the causative factors associated with the condition. 1  Hereditary type enamel hypoplasia: This condition is associated with disturbance during the embryonic development, especially in the ectoderm. 2  The other components of embryonic development are normal.
Enamel hypoplasia is a defect associated with incomplete formation of organic enamel, which covers the teeth. In this condition, the enamel is thin and soft, which causes it to chip off and exposing the underlying dentin. There are two basic types-hereditary and environmental, which are associated with different causes. Enamel hypoplasia can be categorized into two basic types, based on the causative factors associated with the condition. 1  Hereditary type enamel hypoplasia: This condition is associated with disturbance during the embryonic development, especially in the ectoderm. 2  The other components of embryonic development are normal.
(July 2009). Enamel hypoplasia is a defect of the teeth in which the enamel is hard but thin and deficient in amount, caused by defective enamel matrix formation with a deficiency in the cementing substance. Usually the condition involves part of the tooth having a pit in it. In some cases, the natural enamel crown has a hole in it, and in extreme cases, the tooth has no enamel, which doesn't mean the tooth doesn't exist because dentin is also a component of teeth.
Causes Of Enamel Hypoplasia. Enamel hypoplasia can be categorized into two basic types, based on the causative factors associated with the condition. 1  Hereditary type enamel hypoplasia: This condition is associated with disturbance during the embryonic development, especially in the ectoderm. 2  The other components of embryonic development are normal.
For example, trauma to the tooth or gums during development may lead to enamel hypoplasia. The condition also can be hereditary or the result of an infection that occurs during pregnancy. Other enamel hypoplasia causes include: 1  Intubation of a premature infant. 2  Pre-or post-natal malnutrition. 3  Hypoxia or lack of oxygen to tissues. 4  Toxic chemical exposure.