Definition. Lactate dehydrogenase, also called lactic dehydrogenase, or LDH, is an enzyme found in the cells of many body tissues, including the heart, liver, kidneys, skeletal muscle, brain, red blood cells, and lungs. lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test, a blood test used to detect levels of LD, which is widely distributed throughout the body. Disease or injury to body tissues such as the heart, liver, red blood cells, kidneys, skeletal muscles, brain, and lungs will result in higher-than-normal blood levels.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LD or LDH) is an enzyme involved in energy production that is found in almost all of the body's cells, with the highest levels found in the cells of the heart, liver, muscles, kidneys, lungs, and in blood cells; bacteria also produce LD. 
Lactate dehydrogenase deficiency is a condition that affects how the body breaks down sugar to use as energy in cells, primarily muscle cells. There are two types of this condition: lactate dehydrogenase-A deficiency (sometimes called glycogen storage disease XI) and lactate dehydrogenase-B deficiency. 
lactate dehydrogenase. an enzyme that catalyzes the interconversion of lactate and pyruvate. It is widespread in tissues and is particularly abundant in kidney, skeletal muscle, liver, and myocardium. It has five isoenzymes denoted LD 1 to LD 5. lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), an enzyme that is found in the cytoplasm of almost all body tissues, where its main function is to catalyze the oxidation of l-lactate to pyruvate.
A lactate dehydrogenase (LDH or LD) is an enzyme found in nearly all living cells (animals, plants, and prokaryotes). LDH catalyzes the conversion of pyruvate to lactate and back, as it converts NADH to NAD + and back. A dehydrogenase is an enzyme that transfers a hydride from one molecule to another. LDH exist in four distinct enzyme classes. This article is about the common NAD(P)-dependent L-lactate dehydrogenase. Other LDHs act on D-lactate and/or are dependent on cytochrome c: D-lactate dehydrogenase (cytochrome)) and L-lactate (L-lactate dehydrogenase (cytochrome)).
The NAD Cofactor in Lactate Dehydrogenase. Lactate Dehydrogenase is a tetramer composed of two different 35kD subunits, M and H. The H type is found predominantly in the heart while the M type is found primarily in muscle and the liver. The M and H subunits associate to form five different tetramers.
This is a blood test that measures the level of lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in your body. LDH is an enzyme, or catalyst, found in many different tissues in your body. These include your red blood cells, skeletal muscles, kidneys, brain, and lungs. You may also have a lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme test. Your total LDH is made up of 5 isoenzymes numbered LDH-1 through LDH-5. The concentration of each isoenzyme depends on the tissue. For example, LDH-1 and LDH-2 are found mainly in heart tissue. LDH-5 is found mostly in the liver.
Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) is an enzyme that helps facilitate the process of turning sugar into energy for your cells to use. LDH is present in many kinds of organs and tissues throughout the body, including the liver, heart, pancreas, kidneys, skeletal muscles, brain, and blood cells. 
FREE subscriptions for doctors and students... click hereYou have 3 open access pages. Lactate dehydrogenase is a widespread cytosolic enzyme, found in the greatest concentrations in heart, skeletal muscle, liver, kidney and red blood cells. Many of these tissues rely on anaerobic glycolysis for energy. LDH catalyses the conversion of pyruvate to lactate, and vice versa. 