Job 1 You have a three bed semi either brick or render in good condition. It’s being stabilised first, then painted with 2 coats for the first time and there are no access problems. This will take two men 2 days, both painters on £150 a day. They will get it done in a day but use more materials. £380.00. Job 7 You have a large five bedroom detached pebble-dashed house that is already painted, the paint is sound and you want to freshen all four sides with two new coats of paint for cosmetic reasons. This will take two men 3 days.
Average Labour Cost/Price to Paint Exterior Walls. To clarify the following prices it is recommended that you read the article in the INFORMATION box below the PRICES…. (These prices are based on a tradesman’s rate of £150.00 per day and a labourer if required at £100.00 per day. This includes the cost of buying and collecting any materials, dumping any waste if necessary and any incidental materials they will need. The minimum price will usually be for a half day). They will get it done in a day but use more materials. £380.00. Job 7 You have a large five bedroom detached pebble-dashed house that is already painted, the paint is sound and you want to freshen all four sides with two new coats of paint for cosmetic reasons. This will take two men 3 days.
Ive had some external rendering and internal plastering done and based on your price per m2 for skimming boards then your rendering price is consistent. Having said that your skimming price is waaaaaaayyyyy more than I would pay!! Even based on your own figures of 200m2 at £15pm2 thats £3000 for a weeks work .... I then start from the top, render to the bead then call it a day and get down the pub. Following day do the lower half. If its a gable end thats quite tall then you can run an expansion bead down from the central apex to the floor. Again you can then do one half one day and the other, next day.
To be honest, I'd say the best way to price it is to determine how long it will take you and what he materials will cost. Then decide how much you want to earn per day, multiply this by the number of days and add materials. I then start from the top, render to the bead then call it a day and get down the pub. Following day do the lower half. If its a gable end thats quite tall then you can run an expansion bead down from the central apex to the floor. Again you can then do one half one day and the other, next day.
These factors make stucco one of the more expensive siding materials to cover. You can expect to pay anywhere from $900 (~500 sq. ft.) to $3,000 (~1,500 sq. ft.) to have stucco revitalized with paint, depending on how much is needed to cover the home exterior. 
Depending on your location and the rendering service you choose, their rates, including materials, can vary from around $30m2 to $50m2 for a single storey home and will be slightly higher for a two storey home. At $30m2, a home of that size would cost about $12,000 to fully render. On the high end of the scale, rendering would cost $20,000 at $50m2. The cost is significant, but the results can be stunning. Top professional renovators put rendering high on their lists of ways to add value to a brick home.
Some estimates are as low as $15m2, but that is based on a single renderer working at a discount rate. The average residential home has about 400 square metres of exterior wall area. At $30m2, a home of that size would cost about $12,000 to fully render. On the high end of the scale, rendering would cost $20,000 at $50m2. The cost is significant, but the results can be stunning. Top professional renovators put rendering high on their lists of ways to add value to a brick home.
Average Labour Cost/Price of Rendering/Pebble dashing (Pebbledashing). To clarify the following prices it is recommended that you read the article in the INFORMATION box below the PRICES…. (These prices are based on a tradesman’s rate of £150.00 per day and a labourer if required at £100.00 per day. This includes the cost of buying and collecting any materials, dumping any waste if necessary and any incidental materials they will need.
Some estimates are as low as $15m2, but that is based on a single renderer working at a discount rate. The average residential home has about 400 square metres of exterior wall area. At $30m2, a home of that size would cost about $12,000 to fully render. On the high end of the scale, rendering would cost $20,000 at $50m2. The cost is significant, but the results can be stunning. Top professional renovators put rendering high on their lists of ways to add value to a brick home. Most agree that rendering brick can add up to 10 times the cost of rendering to the sale value of a home.