Clawhammer picking, by contrast, is primarily a down-picking style. The hand assumes a claw-like shape and the strumming finger is kept fairly stiff, striking the strings by the motion of the hand at the wrist and/or elbow, rather than a flicking motion by the finger. The banjo player will realize that I use my thumb on the bass strings to obtain drones, much as a clawhammer player uses the banjo’s high fifth string; indeed, when I string the guitar with a high treble in place of the sixth-string bass, it is partly to imitate the fifth string of the banjo.
It's my belief that clawhammer style banjo can be used (and sound great!) in any type of music. It's not just effective on oldtimey songs and fiddle tunes; blues, rock and roll, bluegrass, classical, and jazz styles can all benefit from the unique sound of this instrument. Clawhammer banjo is going through a renaissance right now and players like Michael J. Miles are taking it where Bela Fleck took bluegrass banjo years ago.
Thank you for this thorough explanation!! I am strongly contemplating the idea of buying a banjo and all sorts of doubt came to me about what is clawhammer, what is bluegrass. Is it a style of playing the banjo or is that they are physically different! Well I got my answer! I’m from the Caribbean and I’m very interested in learning banjo.
This range of musical sounds and effects gives clawhammer banjo its artistic solo potential in addition to its traditional role as a rhythmic accompaniment to other musicians. The banjo player will realize that I use my thumb on the bass strings to obtain drones, much as a clawhammer player uses the banjo’s high fifth string; indeed, when I string the guitar with a high treble in place of the sixth-string bass, it is partly to imitate the fifth string of the banjo.
A brief segment from David Holts series on playng the 5 string banjo clawhammer style. This segment is from Beginning the 5-string banjo and David demonstrates close up the left and right hand techniques for the beginner. Complete DVD goes into all details and more songs. 
Level Descriptors. Novice : “I’m completely new to clawhammer banjo, or consider myself at the early to late beginner stage.”. Intermediate : “I have a good grasp of the fundamental techniques of clawhammer banjo. I can play several tunes up to speed, and may have a bit of experience playing with others.”. 
This site is dedicated to sharing banjo tablature in variou s muscial genres. The particular technique of playing emphasized on this blog will be what is known as Clawhammer or Frailing. The clawhammer technique of picking is primarily a down-picking style. The hand assumes a claw-like shape and the strumming finger is kept stiff, striking the strings by the motion of the hand at the wrist. 
Clawhammer is a varied banjo playing style and a common component of American old-time music. The principal difference between clawhammer style and other styles is the picking direction. The banjo player will realize that I use my thumb on the bass strings to obtain drones, much as a clawhammer player uses the banjo’s high fifth string; indeed, when I string the guitar with a high treble in place of the sixth-string bass, it is partly to imitate the fifth string of the banjo.
In its basic form, then, frailing consists of striking downward on a string (or several strings) with a nail (the player's choice, although the index and middle fingers are the most commonly used), then--on the next beat--repeating the motion, and finally --on the off beat--plucking the fifth, or drone, string. This is called a number of things, including double-thumb frailing, drop-thumb, and clawhammer.. It is here that we get into trouble, for some people argue that that it's frailing if you don't double-thumb, and clawhammer if you do.
One frequently asked question about the 5-string banjo concerns the differences between frailing and clawhammer.. This is not easily resolved, simply because it would appear to be largely a matter of opinion. Read on... This is called a number of things, including double-thumb frailing, drop-thumb, and clawhammer.. It is here that we get into trouble, for some people argue that that it's frailing if you don't double-thumb, and clawhammer if you do.