Winding the music boxes, Gepetto, Pinocchio, Figaro and Cleo celebrate. Pinocchio is distracted by a candle and, not knowing what it is, sets his finger on fire; Gepetto panics and extinguishes the wooden boy's finger in Cleo's bowl. 1 Dickie Jones as Pinocchio, a happy wooden puppet carved by Geppetto and turned into a living puppet by the Blue Fairy. 2  Jones also voices Alexander, one of the boys who transformed into a donkey on Pleasure Island. 3  Alexander can still talk and is hurled into a special holding pen for suchlike donkeys.
Assume the sentence: My nose grows now is true: 1  Which means that Pinocchio's nose grows now because he truthfully says it is, but then. 2  Pinocchio's nose does not grow now because according to the novel it grows only as Pinocchio lies, but then. Assume the sentence: My nose grows now is false: 1  Which means that Pinocchio's nose does not grow now because he falsely says it is, but then. 2  Pinocchio's nose grows now because according to the novel it grows only as Pinocchio lies, but then.
Pinocchio is known for having a short nose that becomes longer when he is under stress (chapter 3), especially while lying. His clothes are made of flowered paper, his shoes are made of wood and his hat is made of bread (page 16 of Collodi's Le Avventure di Pinocchio). In the last chapter Pinocchio, out of the mouth of The Terrible Dogfish with Geppetto, finally stops being a puppet and becomes a real boy (thanks to the intervention of the Fairy in a dream). In the novel, Pinocchio is often depicted with a pointy hat, a jacket and a pair of colored, knee-length pants.
Pinocchio is a marionette (a wooden puppet that is maneuvered with wires) and not a puppet (controlled from inside by the puppeteer's hand). But the piece of wood from which he is derived is animated, and so Pinocchio moves independently. In the last chapter Pinocchio, out of the mouth of The Terrible Dogfish with Geppetto, finally stops being a puppet and becomes a real boy (thanks to the intervention of the Fairy in a dream). In the novel, Pinocchio is often depicted with a pointy hat, a jacket and a pair of colored, knee-length pants.
Pinocchio is the second film in the Disney Animated Canon. It was produced by Buena Vista Distribution and was originally released to theatres by RKO Radio Pictures on February 7, 1940. The film was theatrically re-released in 1945, 1954, 1962, 1971, 1978, 1984, and 1992. 1 Dickie Jones as Pinocchio, a happy wooden puppet carved by Geppetto and turned into a living puppet by the Blue Fairy. 2  Jones also voices Alexander, one of the boys who transformed into a donkey on Pleasure Island. 3  Alexander can still talk and is hurled into a special holding pen for suchlike donkeys.
Pinocchio (Noun). One who lies often; a liar. Pinocchio (Noun). One who has difficulty hiding lies. Pinocchio (ProperNoun). The fictional boy made from wood whose nose gets longer with each lie he tells. Pinocchio (ProperNoun). The popular fairy tale about Pinocchio. Origin: From the story The Adventures of Pinocchio (Le avventure di Pinocchio, 1881) by Italian author Carlo Collodi; most likely constructed from pino ‘pine’ and occhio ‘eye’.
The Pinocchio paradox arises when Pinocchio says My nose grows now and is a version of the liar paradox. The liar paradox is defined in philosophy and logic as the statement This sentence is false.. Any attempts to assign a classical binary truth value to this statement lead to a contradiction, or paradox. Assume the sentence: My nose grows now is false: 1  Which means that Pinocchio's nose does not grow now because he falsely says it is, but then. 2  Pinocchio's nose grows now because according to the novel it grows only as Pinocchio lies, but then.
I mean-I know the movie. I know it means to be a liar. But does the word actually break down? It appears as if Pinoc could mean something and chio too? Like chio is the -boy; and pinoc is liar? Is there any meaning to the actual NAME Pinocchio? Or is it just a name? Etymology From the story The Adventures of Pinocchio (Le avventure di Pinocchio, 1881) by Italian author Carlo Collodi; most likely constructed from Italian pino ‘pine’ and occhio ‘eye’ http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Pinocchio.