Most whales migrate to eat and breed. For example, baleen whales feed mostly on krill, which is abundant in very cold waters. However, these cold waters are not a suitable environment in which to give birth – newborn calves are born without a protective blubber layer under their skin and would quickly freeze to death.
During the whale migration in Australia, people have a greater chance to see whales on the shores of these renowned spots for whale watching tours in Austalia: the Gold Coast, Hervey Bay and Cape Byron along the Australian east coast, Point Hicks in Victoria, Sapphire Coast in New South Whales and Storm Bay in Tasmania. During the spring season, they migrate back to Antarctica. This whale migration has become an exciting tourist attraction in Australia. As early as May, one can spot whales swimming and frolicking along the east coast of
Gray Whale Migration. A mother gray whale and her calf are on their migration path through Monterey Bay. But first they must get past a pack of killer whales
Humpback Whale Migration North Pacific Humpback Whales leave the icy waters around Alaska during the fall, swimming practically non-stop for nearly 6 to 8 weeks before reaching their Hawaiian winter home, where they mate, give birth, and nurture their calves. 
A 10-15 foot baby humpback may nurse as long as a year, adding up to 15 feet in length each month. An adult humpback may grow to be up to 50 feet long. Southern right whale migration. Winter/Spring: During the winter and spring, they are found in their coastal mating and calving grounds. Summer: Southern right whales migrate to colder food-rich waters near Antarctica for the summer, but to where exactly is not known. Most appear to stay in the mid-Southern Ocean but some do feed at the edge of the pack-ice.
Gray Whale Migration Route. Gray whales have the longest known migration of any mammal. They travel 10,000-12,000 miles round trip every year between their winter calving lagoons in the warm waters of Mexico and their summer feeding grounds in the cold Arctic seas. Thanks to its nearshore migration route, we can observe the gray along its journey.
Humpback whales migrate from Antarctica to the sub-tropical coastal waters of western and eastern Australia and Fiji to give birth and mate during winter and spring. Each year at least 1200 humpbacks migrate 5000km to the eastern coast of Australia. 
Whale migration paths. Whale migration paths are one of the most studied in the scientific community. It is well known that whales migrate to accommodate there diets as well as mating behaviors and thus, it is almost always seasonal. Humpback whales for example travel south during the fall to take advantage of a warmer climate and a surplus of food. When Spring comes around, the reverse is true and they migrate north.
Whale Migration. During the southern winter, whales travel from the feeding grounds of Antarctica to the warmer waters of Australia. During the spring season, they migrate back to Antarctica. This whale migration has become an exciting tourist attraction in Australia. As early as May, one can spot whales swimming and frolicking along the east coast of Australia.