The different types of sugars used in fermentation had a significant impact on the amount of carbon dioxide produced. Glucose produced the most with a gas bubble of 132mm while sucrose yielded 102mm of carbon dioxide. Sucrose yielded 9.27 mm of carbon dioxide per minute during fermentation while fructose functioned at a rate of 3.99 mm of carbon dioxide per minute. The control that contained no sugar had no rate of carbon dioxide production.
Cellular respiration and alcohol fermentation are examples of this characteristic. Yeast, a single celled organism conducts fermentation when sugar is present, to make chemical energy, and in the process produce alcohol and carbon dioxide. 
The hypothesis was supported in that all forms of sugar produced energy and that glucose was the most efficient. The carbon dioxide produced can be directly related to the energy produced through fermentation because carbon dioxide is a by-product of ethanol fermentation (Cellular, 54). The control that contained no sugar produced no energy because a source of sugar is required for glycolysis and fermentation to occur. Sucrose yielded 9.27 mm of carbon dioxide per minute during fermentation while fructose functioned at a rate of 3.99 mm of carbon dioxide per minute. The control that contained no sugar had no rate of carbon dioxide production.
Glucose was the most efficient, producing12.64 mm of carbon dioxide per minute. Sucrose yielded 9.27 mm of carbon dioxide per minute during fermentation while fructose functioned at a rate of 3.99 mm of carbon dioxide per minute. The control that contained no sugar had no rate of carbon dioxide production.
Article. ABSTRACT. Yeast use sugar during fermentation (anaerobic respiration) to convert monosaccharides into carbon dioxide and ethanol. Yeast cells were tested for their effectiveness in utilizing a variety of sugars for fermentation. 
Ethanol fermentation, also called alcoholic fermentation, is a biological process which converts sugars such as glucose, fructose, and sucrose into cellular energy, producing ethanol and carbon dioxide as a side-effect. Yeast organisms consume sugars in the dough and produce ethanol and carbon dioxide as waste products. The carbon dioxide forms bubbles in the dough, expanding it into something of a foam. Nearly all the ethanol evaporates from the dough when the bread is baked.
[Lactic acid fermentation by lactic bacteria ]. In brewing, alcoholic fermentation is the conversion of sugar into carbon dioxide gas (CO2) and ethyl alcohol. This process is carried out by yeast cells using a range of enzymes. This is in fact a complex series of conversions that brings about the conversion of sugar to CO2 and alcohol. 
But glucose is easier to break down than sucrose and starch. Glucose is monosaccharide. They are the simplest carbohydrates. Through glycolysis and later in the reactions of the Citric acid cycle (TCAC), glucose is oxidized to eventually form CO2 and water, yielding energy, mostly in the form of ATP. Sucrose is a disaccharide, consists of 2 monosaccharides. While starch is a polysaccharide, a complex carbohydrate. Not all yeast produce and secrete amylase, and it would take time to do this. Hence why little to no CO2 Sucrose (a glucose-fructose di-sacharide) is fairly small, but it too needs to be broken down into individual glucose and fructose molecules. To do this the yeast must produce the enzyme (sucrase, invertase, or alpha-glucosidase)
In ethanol fermentation, one glucose molecule breaks down into two pyruvates (1). The energy from this exothermic reaction is used to bind inorganic phosphates to ADP and convert NAD+ to NADH. The two pyruvates are then broken down into two acetaldehydes and give off two CO2 as a waste product (2). Yeast organisms consume sugars in the dough and produce ethanol and carbon dioxide as waste products. The carbon dioxide forms bubbles in the dough, expanding it into something of a foam. Nearly all the ethanol evaporates from the dough when the bread is baked.