The International University Town. Manipal is situated in Southwest India, about 101 meters above the sea level, about 10 kms from the Arabian Sea. Located on a plateau and nestled between the Western Ghats on the east and the Arabian Sea on the west, Manipal commands a panoramic view with abundant flora and fauna. By Train: The closest railway station to Manipal is in Udupi (3 Kms away). The Mangalore railway station is 65 Kms away from Manipal.
Tourism in Manipal. A university town located in Karnataka, Manipal provides a captivating view of the Arabian Sea to the west and the Western Ghats range to the east. Formerly under Shivalli village Panchayat, Manipal is a center of academic learning, healthcare, industry and finance. 1 Malpe: Situated about 9 km to the east of Manipal, Malpe is an important natural port of the Karnataka coast, providing some mesmerizing picturesque views. 2  Main attractions of the place are the unexplored St. Mary's Island and the northern-most Daria-Bahadurgad Island.
Manipal is situated on a hill about 5 km from Udupi. What used to be a jungle has given way to and international University Complex thanks to the dedication of Dr. T.M.A. Pai, a leading educationist. Manipal is a coastal town in the western ghats region of Karnataka in the Udupi district. It is an international University town home to Manipal University (formerly MAHE-Manipal Academy of Higher Education). Manipal is referred to as Vedadri (the hillock of Vedas) is located on a hillock east to Udupi. To the north the end of the hillock is popularly called as end point. Down the point is the Suvarna river valley.
Manipal Academy of Higher Education, branded as Manipal University is a deemed university located in Manipal, Karnataka, India. It has over 28,000 students from 52 countries. The university has branch campuses in Bangalore, Mangalore, Sikkim, Jaipur, Dubai, Malaysia and Antigua. The Innovation Centre was established during the 50th anniversary of the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT): It is a research center in which funding is provided to students, faculty and the university.School of Management, one the esteemed institutes under Manipal university is located in the MIT campus.
Confidence votes 262K. Manipal University is located in India, specifically in the state of Karnataka. It is on the western coast of South India, and is specifically referred to as the Manipal Academy of Higher Education. Absolutely not. Sikkim Manipal University of Distance Education is not a fake university, It has UGC, DEC and HRD. Also it is considered as the one of the best universities … in India for Distance Education for all the courses which includes MBA, MCA and various other courses.
This 400 meter lake, after which Manipal is named is located in the middle of the town, and offers boating facilities. Manipal was once a barren hill with few trees. This hill was transformed to a University town by Dr. T. M. A. Pai who first started the Kasturba Medical College in 1953, now a part of the university. Udupi's Malpe beach is located about seven kilometers from Manipal. Agumbe, a popular hill station on the Western ghats is around fifty kilometers east of Manipal, private buses ply daily to Agumbe. The major religious centre Sringeri is at distance of 88
Mainpal is situated 5 km (3.1 miles) from the temple city of Udupi, and is 65 km (40 miles) north of Mangalore. Manipal was previously part of the Shivalli village panchayat. The name is derived from Mannu palla anglicised to Manipal. Mannu means mud and Palla means lake in Tulu Language.
Manipal (maṇipāl) is a university city located in the state of Karnataka in India. It is a suburb within Udupi city and is administered by the Udupi City Municipality. Udupi's Malpe beach is located about seven kilometers from Manipal. Agumbe, a popular hill station on the Western ghats is around fifty kilometers east of Manipal, private buses ply daily to Agumbe. The major religious centre Sringeri is at distance of 88
This 400 metre lake, after which Manipal is named, is located in the middle of the town, and offers boating facilities. Manipal was once a barren hill with few trees. This hill was transformed to a University town by Dr.T. M. A. Pai starting in the 1950s. Manipal was previously part of the Shivalli village panchayat. The name is derived from Mannu palla anglicised to Manipal. Mannu means mud and Palla means lake in Tulu Language.