Explosion is the result of very rapid chemical reactions. The reaction can take place without oxigen. Hence to have an explosion like the Big Bang in space ,you need chemicals to combine to create the Explosion. Now what chemical materials were postulated by the Big Bang theory to cause the explosion in a vaccum could have been the result of nuclear fusion.
People don't explode in space. This stems from the idea that your blood would boil if you were exposed to a vacuum. Whilst blood would boil if you exposed it to a vacuum and it was at body temperature your body is wrapped in skin.
A spaceship with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen will blow up quite well in the vacuum of space. Chemical explosives will also explode in space since they function by breaking weakly bonded chemical components; no oxygen is necessary. Nuclear explosions can of course occur in space, too. However, in space, there is no gas to transmit sound from the explosion to the observer, so it would appear to be silent.
In order for something to implode or explode because of a vacuum, there has to a difference in the pressure inside the object and outside of it. What we usually think of as “exploding in a vacuum” is usually in reference to a body or a space ship.
This is more or less what happened in space with the Apollo 13 explosion, but with liquid oxygen, and no actual fuel for the O2 to react with. So, no, there does not need to be any kind of chemical reaction, and therefore there does not need to be any kind of flames, for an explosion to occur.
1 You need oxygen to produce fires and explosions. 2  that's why star wars is a lot of crap, you cant hear anything in space either, space pretty much shows how important oxygen is, and why we shouldn't be polluting it. 3  Things can explode if there is energy to support the explosion inside the vacuum.
1 Yes, provided there is an oxygen source. 2  A spaceship with liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen will blow up quite well in the vacuum of space. 3  Chemical explosives will also explode in space since they function by breaking weakly bonded chemical components; no oxygen is necessary.