As a formal House rule rather than a resolution, the gag rule was now a permanent part of House procedure and did not have to be renewed by vote each session. This new gag rule provoked even stronger opposition. The term gag rule has also been applied to presidential regulations banning Abortion counseling by employees of family planning clinics that received a particular type of federal funding.
Gag Rule. A rule, regulation, or law that prohibits debate or discussion of a particular issue. Between 1836 and 1844, the U.S. House of Representatives adopted a series of resolutions and rules that banned petitions calling for the Abolition of Slavery. When the first gag rule was instituted in 1836, House protocol required that the first thirty days of each session of Congress be devoted to the reading of petitions from constituents. After those thirty days, petitions were read in the House every other Monday.
Gag Rule. A rule, regulation, or law that prohibits debate or discussion of a particular issue. Between 1836 and 1844, the U.S. House of Representatives adopted a series of resolutions and rules that banned petitions calling for the Abolition of Slavery. Known as gag rules, these measures effectively tabled antislavery petitions without submitting them to usual House procedures. The term gag rule has also been applied to presidential regulations banning Abortion counseling by employees of family planning clinics that received a particular type of federal funding.
As a formal House rule rather than a resolution, the gag rule was now a permanent part of House procedure and did not have to be renewed by vote each session. This new gag rule provoked even stronger opposition. When the first gag rule was instituted in 1836, House protocol required that the first thirty days of each session of Congress be devoted to the reading of petitions from constituents. After those thirty days, petitions were read in the House every other Monday.
Bill would ban future gag rule by Schneider, Mary Ellen / OB GYN News. APHA and fellow public health advocates called for fiscal year 2010 foreign assistance appropriations legislation to include a provision that would bar future presidents from reimposing the Mexico City Policy, or what is more commonly known as the. .
GAG RULE, ANTISLAVERY. In American politics the term gag rule refers to a series of procedural rules adopted by Congress in the 1830s and 1840s to prevent the submission of antislavery petitions. 
Mexico City Policy. A US government policy that has required (when it is followed) non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that receive federal funding to refrain from performing or promoting abortion services as a method of family planning in other countries. APHA and fellow public health advocates called for fiscal year 2010 foreign assistance appropriations legislation to include a provision that would bar future presidents from reimposing the Mexico City Policy, or what is more commonly known as the. .
Also known as the Mexico City Policy. The Global Gag Rule, otherwise known as the Mexico City Policy, required that any overseas organization receiving U.S. aid not have anything to do with abortion. 