What is a Holter monitor? A Holter monitor is a battery-operated portable device that measures and tape records your heart’s activity (ECG) continuously for 24 to 48 hours or longer depending on the type of monitoring used. The device is the size of a small camera.
1 Other types of heart rate monitors include those that measure the heart rate in the fingertip or wrist. 2  These monitors can cost between $20 and $50. 3  These types of monitors typically lack the features of the watch and strap heart rate monitors. 1 Heart rate monitors and the included watches need batteries to operate. 2  The batteries required will vary depending upon the brand of the device. 3  Batteries typically cost less than $10. 4  Expert opinions vary on how to best optimize training using a heart rate monitor.
1 On average, a Holter monitor test can cost anywhere from $300 to as much as $1,200 for the test without any sort of insurance. 2  If you do have a health insurance policy, you will be responsible for your co-pays and deductibles. 1 Usually, the more days you wear the Holter Monitor, the higher the costs that you will have to pay. 2  The type of Holter Monitor that you have on you will also play a factor that decides the overall cost.
1 These monitors can cost between $20 and $50. 2  These types of monitors typically lack the features of the watch and strap heart rate monitors. 3  Insurance does not typically cover the cost of a heart rate monitor. 1 Heart rate monitors and the included watches need batteries to operate. 2  The batteries required will vary depending upon the brand of the device. 3  Batteries typically cost less than $10. 4  Expert opinions vary on how to best optimize training using a heart rate monitor.
The heart event monitor, also known as the cardiac event recorder, is a battery-powered portable instrument used to monitor and record the heart’s electrical activity (ECG) when the patient is experiencing symptoms such as dizziness, shortness of breath, palpitations, and chest pain. 1 Consider buying a refurbished heart event monitor device. 2  It is usually offered at a fraction of the price of a new unit, enabling you to save on the cost of the item. 3  But be sure that the refurbished device works efficiently and that it comes with a warranty from the seller.
1 Batteries typically cost less than $10. 2  Expert opinions vary on how to best optimize training using a heart rate monitor. 3  Athletes, both recreational and professional, can purchase books which outline particular training methodologies. 4  Most training books, many of which include a logbook, cost less than $25. 1 Heart rate monitors and the included watches need batteries to operate. 2  The batteries required will vary depending upon the brand of the device. 3  Batteries typically cost less than $10. 4  Expert opinions vary on how to best optimize training using a heart rate monitor.
1 There are various types of heart rate monitors. 2  The most common type features a strap, worn around the chest, and a watch, which displays the heart rate. 3  This type of monitor costs between $30 and $470. 1 Heart rate monitors and the included watches need batteries to operate. 2  The batteries required will vary depending upon the brand of the device. 3  Batteries typically cost less than $10. 4  Expert opinions vary on how to best optimize training using a heart rate monitor.
1 At OPSMEdical.com, the following are the prices of heart event monitors they offer: Heartrak 2 Recorder, Post Symptomatic – $595; Heartrak Smart Recorder, Pre/Post – $645; and, Heartrak Smart AF (Atrial Fibrillation) – $795. 2  Special prices are offered for 10- and 50-pack orders. 1 Consider buying a refurbished heart event monitor device. 2  It is usually offered at a fraction of the price of a new unit, enabling you to save on the cost of the item. 3  But be sure that the refurbished device works efficiently and that it comes with a warranty from the seller.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The average cost of a 24 hour holter monitor is around $1000 if you did not have insurance. Your insurance should cover their part completely, therefore your share would be around $200. The cost can vary depending on the location you are having it performed. 