Confidence votes 15. It depends on how you treat your hair. But it usually takes 3 weeks. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The average rate of hair growth is 1/2 an inch a month (6 inches a year). Your hair is always growing. Growth rate can increase or decrease depending on your genetics, diet, and some other factors
Hair Growth. Hair generally grows an average of 1/2 inch per month, with growth generally predetermined by a person's genetic code, meaning that it can only grow so fast. In a year, hair usually grows about 6 inches. As a person ages, hair growth can slow due to cell division also slowing. Hair growth is a result of cell division when new hair cells form in the root and push the hair forward. The new hair is always added at the root as the older hair inches downward slowly.
The statment, “Hair grows an average of 1/2 inch per month,” is not about race, it’s about hair, nor is it a blanketed statement but it’s an average. Believe it or not, there are people who grow less than 1/2 inch per month and per your personal testimony, there are some that grow more than 1/2 an inch per month. 
I would say that Genetics, proper Hair Care, Exercise, Diet and using very little heat contribute to how long a woman's hair grows regardless of her ethnicity. If a Black woman has very short to medium-short hair perhaps about two years with of course proper Hair Care, Exercise, using very little heat and Diet. WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT: Ladies, please know that it is possible to grow healthy shoulder-length hair if you are Black. Ciao! -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- If your completely bald it would take about 2 years for the shortest layer to reach the shoulders
Many factors determine the length of time it takes for a person to grow out their hair and reach certain hair lengths. This article will try to offer some guidance for length planning. As you read, bear in mind that the time estimates listed for growing out the hair in this article are just that-estimates. Growing out the hair tends to follow a certain path. Generally changes in the look, thickness, and feel of the hair come first. Usually it is within the first 3-4 months of your hair journey that you’ll notice these improvements in thickness, and this tends to happen before you ever see any additional length.
General Considerations. Hair grows approximately ½ inch per month, for a total of six inches in one year. This rate is an average across races. Asian hair grows slightly faster than this average, Caucasian hair grows near the average,and black hair trends to grow at or just below this average each month. Growing out the hair tends to follow a certain path. Generally changes in the look, thickness, and feel of the hair come first. Usually it is within the first 3-4 months of your hair journey that you’ll notice these improvements in thickness, and this tends to happen before you ever see any additional length.
hair usually grows about 1/2 an inch per month. And grows about 6 inches every year. it depends how old u are. for example, a 40 year olds hair might not grow as fast as a 14 … year old, because as you get older, cells divide less frequently, thus making hair grow slower. If a Black woman has very short to medium-short hair perhaps about two years with of course proper Hair Care, Exercise, using very little heat and Diet. WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT: Ladies, please know that it is possible to grow healthy shoulder-length hair if you are Black. Ciao!
An average person's hair grows at about 1/2 inch to and 1 inch per month. Trimming your hair does not make it grow faster, this is a myth. It is healthy to get a trim, but the … best way to let your hair grow it's best is eating plenty of fruits and vegetables and enough servings from each food group. If a Black woman has very short to medium-short hair perhaps about two years with of course proper Hair Care, Exercise, using very little heat and Diet. WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT: Ladies, please know that it is possible to grow healthy shoulder-length hair if you are Black. Ciao!
The only hereditary thing that you can’t control is how fast your hair grows. The average person’s hair grows 1/2 inch a month or 6 inches a year. So maybe your family’s hair grows slower, say 3 or 4 inches a year instead of 6, but as long as you have new growth every month, your hair is definitely growing. 
RE: Hair why dosent it grow long for black people? Why do white people&#39;s hair grow faster and grows down there backs and black people&#39;s hair dosen&#39;t grow past there shoulders. There are some black people that have hair down there backs but it is rare. Source(s): hair dosent grow long black people: https://tr.im/t9Cpo. Caprice · 2 months ago. Thumbs up.