Cattle is a word to describe animals which are mammals and belong to the genus Bos. Within the general term of cattle are cows, bulls, oxen, heifers, steers, bullocks and calves. Cattle are the most common type of large domesticated hoofed animals. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae. Cattle are large grass-eating mammals with two-toed or cloven hooves and a four-chambered stomach. This stomach is an adaptation to help digest tough grasses. The word cattle is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo.
An onomatopoeic term for one of the most common sounds made by cattle is moo (also called lowing). There are a number of other sounds made by cattle, including calves bawling, and bulls bellowing. Bawling is most common for cows after weaning of a calf. Cattle can only be used in the plural and not in the singular: it is a plurale tantum. Thus one may refer to three cattle or some cattle, but not one cattle. No universally used singular form in modern English of cattle exists, other than the sex-and age-specific terms such as cow, bull, steer and heifer.
Cows are animals just like us humans, made of muscle, fat, membranes, cartilage, bones, water, and keratin, among many other things that make a complex creature a complex creature like cows, horses, humans, dogs, cats and many other living organisms. Yes, most hamburgers are made primarily of beef, which is the muscle from a cow. However, there are also patty-shaped products similar to hamburgers that are made from chicken … meat, turkey meat and from soy or black beans (veggie burgers). 1 person found this useful. Karin L.
Cattle are raised as livestock for meat (beef and veal), as dairy animals for milk and other dairy products, and as draft animals (oxen or bullocks that pull carts, plows and other implements). Other products include leather and dung for manure or fuel. Cattle can only be used in the plural and not in the singular: it is a plurale tantum. Thus one may refer to three cattle or some cattle, but not one cattle. No universally used singular form in modern English of cattle exists, other than the sex-and age-specific terms such as cow, bull, steer and heifer.
In the beef industry, the main product we produce is beef—the hamburgers, steaks and roast beef we enjoy eating. A beef by-product is something made from a cow besides the beef we eat. To illustrate, an 1150 pound market steer yields (link) approximately 500 pounds of beef. Most of the material used for surgical sutures is derived from the intestines of meat animals. This description of cattle by-products is by no means complete. In fact, new uses are discovered almost daily.
Dairy cows are female cattle that are raised to produce lots of milk for human consumption. Beef cows, on the other hand, are female cattle that are used to raise a calf from birth that is used for beef later in its life. The word cattle is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo.
Cattle raised for human consumption are called  beef cattle . Within the beef cattle industry in parts of the United States, the term beef (plural beeves) is still used in its archaic sense to refer to an animal of either sex. Cattle can only be used in the plural and not in the singular: it is a plurale tantum. Thus one may refer to three cattle or some cattle, but not one cattle. No universally used singular form in modern English of cattle exists, other than the sex-and age-specific terms such as cow, bull, steer and heifer.
Bologna is made from the beef of the cow. Bologna is usually made  from cutting meat off that is closest to the bone. Chicken and pork  are also used in some bolognas. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: Karin L. It's more than just throwing a cow out to pasture. Yes, most hamburgers are made primarily of beef, which is the muscle from a cow. However, there are also patty-shaped products similar to hamburgers that are made from chicken … meat, turkey meat and from soy or black beans (veggie burgers). 1 person found this useful. Karin L.
Only in your dreams. Chocolate milk is not made from cows: white milk is, at least the most common term milk derives from the definition of cows milk.. Plus, menstrual co … ws (use of anthropomorphication here) do not produce milk of any kind. Wara is a kind of cheese made made from cow milk. It is usually made and sold by Fulani women in Nigeria. It is white, looks rippled on the surface, and has a slightly sweet t … aste. It can be cooked fried and eaten straight.