Ivan L. Sander. Northern red oak (Quercus rubra), also known as common red oak, eastern red oak, mountain red oak, and gray oak, is widespread in the East and grows on a variety of soils and topography, often forming pure stands.
Southern red oak (Quercus falcata var. falcata) , also called Spanish oak, water oak, or red oak, is one of the more common upland southern oaks. This medium-size tree is moderately fast growing on dry, sandy, or clay loams in mixed forests. It is also often found growing as a street or lawn tree.
Cherrybark oak (Quercus falcata var. pagodifolia) , also called bottomland red oak, red oak, swamp red oak, swamp Spanish oak, and Elliott oak, is the high-value red oak in the South. It is larger and better formed than southern red oak and commonly grows on more moist sites.
However, Quercus laurifolia is also known as diamond-leaf oak, which refers to the shape of its leaves. This feature along with their differing preferred habitats helps to distinguish these two oaks from one another. Quercus laurifolia is generally found on wet sites and Quercus hemisphaerica on more upland sites.
Quercus comes from the Latin name for oak and is formed from two Celtic words: quer meaning beautiful and cuez meaning tree..
!49 Fagaceae-beech family Quercus garryana Oregon white oak Vegetative Features: • Leaf: simple, alternate, deciduous, 3-6 long, pinnately 5-7 lobed, glabrous and dark green above, orange-brown pubescence below.• Twig: stout, pubescent early, becoming smooth, reddish brown to gray; buds densely hairy, clustered.
50 NOTES AND SKETCHES. !51 Fagaceae-beech family Quercus rubra northern red oak Vegetative Features: • Leaf: simple, alternate, deciduous, 4-9 long, pinnately 7-11 lobed, sinuses extend 1/3 - 1/2 way to midvein, lobes bristle-tipped.• Twig: stout, red-brown, glabrous; buds conical, clustered, scales mostly glabrous.
Quercus robur (Latin quercus, oak + robur strength, hard timber) is the type species of the genus (the species by which the oak genus Quercus is defined), and a member of the white oak section Quercus section Quercus.