Cyprus (Greek κύπρος, Turkish Kıbrıs,) is an island in the Mediterranean Sea, south of Turkey. After Sicily and Sardinia, Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea. Although the island is geographically in Asia it is politically a European country and is a member of the European Union. 
Cyprus Island-Information and facts. Cyprus island is located in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, 113 km (71 miles) south of Turkey and around 120 km (75 miles) west of the Syrian coast. The island is one of the most popular vacation destinations in Europe as it has wonderful weather. 
The Republic of Cyprus is a Eurasian island country located in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. It shares borders with Greece on the east, Israel on the south-east, Turkey on the south, Syria on the west, and Egypt on the north. The island located in the eastern part of the Mediterranean Sea is situated south of Turkey, west of Syria and Lebanon, east of Greece, and north of Egypt.
The location of Cyprus is also the reason why many civilisations have wanted to conquer it. Cyprus surrounding countries are Greece, Turkey, Lebanon, Syria, Israel and Egypt. It is also the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea after Sicily and Sardinia with an area of 9,251 sq. km. Cyprus is divided into two parts. The Southern Cyprus which is inhabited by the Greek-Cypriots and Northern Cyprus which is inhabited by the Turkish-Cypriots and the Greek-Cypriot side comprises the 70 % of the island while the other 30% is comprised by the Turkish-Cypriots.
The given Cyprus location map shows that Cyprus is located in the south-eastern side of Europe and western side of Turkey (Asia); however, Cyprus is also considered as Eurasian country. Cyprus map also shows that Cyprus is an island located in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Surprisingly, the small island country has very high income economy along with high Human Development Index. It is one of the favorite destinations for tourists
Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean Sea, after the Italian islands of Sicily and Sardinia (both in terms of area and population). It is also the world's 81st largest by area and world's 51st largest by population. Cyprus was settled by Mycenaean Greeks in two waves in the 2nd millennium BC. As a strategic location in the Middle East, it was subsequently occupied by several major powers, including the empires of the Assyrians, Egyptians and Persians, from whom the island was seized in 333 BC by Alexander the Great.
Cyprus location on the world map & Surrounding Countries. With an area of 9,251 sq. km, Cyprus is the third largest island in the Mediterranean after Sicily and Sardinia. It measures 240km east to west and 100km north to south. The centre of the island is dominated by the Troodos massive reaching a peak with Mount Olympus at 1952m. Cyprus Landform
Where is Cyprus. Cyprus is an island located in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea, 113 km (71 miles) south of Turkey and around 120 km (75 miles) west of the Syrian coast. The island is one of the most popular vacation destinations in Europe as it has wonderful weather (more info about the island's wonderful weather on our weather page .). Cyprus is divided into two parts. The Southern Cyprus which is inhabited by the Greek-Cypriots and Northern Cyprus which is inhabited by the Turkish-Cypriots and the Greek-Cypriot side comprises the 70 % of the island while the other 30% is comprised by the Turkish-Cypriots.
Geography. Cyprus is located in Western Asia or also considered as the Middle East. It has a strategic location that makes it in close proximity to Asia and Europe. The island located in the eastern part of the Mediterranean Sea is situated south of Turkey, west of Syria and Lebanon, east of Greece, and north of Egypt.