The Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja), sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle, is a Neotropical species of eagle. It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Ameri … cas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world. 
The Harpy Eagle has found it's way onto the endangered species list. Many factors have contributed to the eagle becoming endangered. Conserving the Harpy Eagle may be the only way to remove it from being endangered. Sadly, the Harpy Eagle has found a spot on the endangered species list. The endangered Harpy Eagle often falls victim to numerous threats, causing their population numbers to diminish.
The Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja), sometimes known as the American Harpy Eagle, is a Neotropical species of eagle. It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Ameri … cas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world. 
A huge, iconic eagle of the rainforests of Central and South America, the harpy eagle (Harpia harpyja) is one of the largest and most powerful birds of prey in the world. This impressive species is named after the ‘harpies’ of Greek mythology, which were winged monsters with sharp claws and a woman’s face. 1 The harpy eagle’s huge talons can be as large as a bear’s claws, and its legs can be almost as thick as a man’s wrist. 2  The harpy eagle is the national bird of Panama. 3  The harpy eagle is named after a mythological creature that had the face of a woman and the body of a bird.
The harpy eagle prefers large, uninterrupted forest habitat. Also, open patches of forest must be nearby for hunting. They feed mainly on tree-dwelling animals such as sloths, monkeys, opossums, and some reptiles and other birds. Prey is caught by flying through the trees with a quick and hard strike. Harpy eagles are said to be the largest and most powerful of the eagles. They are found in lowland tropical rainforests from southern Mexico to northern Argentina. Adults can reach up to 3.5 feet long and can weigh up to 20 lb. Their wingspans can reach as high as 6.5 feet.
The harpy eagle (Harpia harpyja) is a neotropical species of eagle. It is sometimes known as the American harpy eagle to distinguish it from the Papuan eagle, which is sometimes known as the New Guinea harpy eagle or Papuan harpy eagle. It is the largest and most powerful raptor found in the Americas, and among the largest extant species of eagles in the world. The only member of the genus Harpia, the harpy eagle is most closely related to the crested eagle (Morphnus guianensis) and the New Guinea harpy eagle (Harpyopsis novaeguineae), the three composing the subfamily Harpiinae within the large family Accipitridae.
1 With a two-metre wingspan, strong, hooked beak and massive talons, the harpy eagle is one of the largest and most powerful birds of prey in the world. 2  The harpy eagle’s huge talons can be as large as a bear’s claws, and its legs can be almost as thick as a man’s wrist. 3  The harpy eagle is the national bird of Panama. 1 The harpy eagle’s huge talons can be as large as a bear’s claws, and its legs can be almost as thick as a man’s wrist. 2  The harpy eagle is the national bird of Panama. 3  The harpy eagle is named after a mythological creature that had the face of a woman and the body of a bird.
1. The Harpy Eagle (Harpia harpyja) is one of the biggest of all eagles. Measuring around 37 inches (88cm) in height and weighing up to 18lbs (8kg) for females, and up to 16lbs (7kg) for males, harpy eagles have powerful talons that grow to about 5 inches (12cm) in length. 
The harpy eagle is an endangered species; depletion of the rainforests is a constant threat. The Harpy Eagle Conservation Program works with South American governments, logging companies, and local people to protect nesting sites. H arpy eagles (birds of prey) are the largest and most powerful eagle in the world. They inhabit the tropical forests of Central and South American, ranging from Southern Mexico to Argentina.
Area(s) Where Listed As Endangered: Mexico south to Argentina. Harpy eagles are said to be the largest and most powerful of the eagles. They are found in lowland tropical rainforests from southern Mexico to northern Argentina. Adults can reach up to 3.5 feet long and can weigh up to 20 lb. Their wingspans can reach as high as 6.5 feet. Females are larger and heavier than males