A late effect is a side effect that occurs months or years after cancer treatment. Many people who have received treatment for cancer have a risk of developing long-term side effects. In fact, evaluating and treatment of late effects is an important part of survivorship care.
Tiredness and weakness are the most common side effects of chemotherapy. They may continue for some months after your treatment ends. Other side effects can include feeling sick or being sick, hair loss or thinning, a sore mouth, diarrhoea or constipation, changes to your periods, and sore eyes.
There are many different chemotherapy drugs and they all have different side effects. If you are worried about long term effects from your treatment, ask your doctor or specialist nurse about the drugs you are having. We have more information about side effects of cancer drugs in the main treatment section.
If you have a heart condition, there may be some chemotherapy drugs your doctor won't use. Your doctors will also check you for these effects for some years after your treatment. A long term side effect of some drugs is a risk of getting another cancer in the future. This is called a second cancer.
Your cancer treatment is over, but the treatments that may have saved your life may also continue to cause side effects. As more people are living longer after cancer treatment, more is becoming known about late side effects of cancer treatment.
Most chemotherapy side effects cease after treatment. Although uncommon, some treatments may produce long-term effects. Following is a list of chemotherapy side effects categories, symptoms within each category, and links to additional side effects information.
Late or long-term side effects: Some chemo drugs can have long-lasting side effects, some of which might not occur until months or years after treatment has ended. For example: 1  Doxorubicin can damage the heart, so your doctor may order tests to check your heart function before and during treatment with this drug.
Symptoms are the things that happen as a direct result of the cancer and have nothing to do with the drug. Different chemotherapy drugs have different short term and long term side effects and certainly not all chemotherapy drugs cause every side effect.
Brain, spinal cord, and nerve problems. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy can cause long-term side effects to the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. These late effects include: Hearing loss from high doses of chemotherapy, especially drugs like cisplatin (Platinol).