During the winter of 1804 Lewis and Clark interviewed several men to hire a guide. Sacagawea was pregnant for the first time and was married to Charbonneau. Charbonneau was hired because of his wife who spoke Shoshone because Lewis and Clark knew they would need help from these tribes. She was given the nickname of Janey by Clark and delivered her son, Jean Baptiste on 2/11/1805. In April of the same year the expedition headed out
On November 15, 1805, Lewis and Clark and the Corps of Volunteers for Northwestern Discovery reach the Pacific Ocean at the mouth of the Columbia River, one year, six months, and one day after leaving St. Louis, Missouri, in search of the legendary Northwest Passage to the sea. 
Sacagawea ~ Sacajawea ~ Sakakawea. The only Native American woman who served as an interpreter and guide for the Lewis and Clark Expedition in 1805 and 1806. As a child, she had been taken by members of the Hidatsa Tribe and lived among them. Later she was sold to a French-Canadian trapper named Toussaint Charbonneau. President Clinton presented the title of Honorary Sergeant, Regular Army to Sacagawea, a young Shoshone woman who served as Lewis and Clark's guide. Sacagawea was the only woman to accompany the explorers to the Pacific Ocean and back, and her interpretation and navigation skills proved invaluable to the expedition.
The expedition was commissioned by President Thomas Jefferson shortly after the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, consisting of a select group of U.S. Army volunteers under the command of Captain Meriwether Lewis and his close friend, Second Lieutenant William Clark. The route of Lewis and Clark's expedition took them up the Missouri River to its headwaters, then on to the Pacific via the Columbia River, and may have been influenced by the purported transcontinental journey of Moncacht-Ape apé by the same route about a century. before
The Lewis and Clark Expedition, also known as the Corps of Discovery Expedition, was the first American expedition to cross what is now the western portion of the United States, departing in May 1804, from near St. Louis making their way westward through the continental divide to the Pacific coast. The route of Lewis and Clark's expedition took them up the Missouri River to its headwaters, then on to the Pacific via the Columbia River, and may have been influenced by the purported transcontinental journey of Moncacht-Ape apé by the same route about a century. before
Introduction. Sacagawea, as everyone knows, was the young Indian woman who, along with her baby, traveled with Lewis and Clark to the Pacific Ocean and back. She was a great help to the expedition and many organizations are preparing celebrations to commemorate the 200-year anniversary of the endeavor. By: M. R. Hansen. Sacagawea, as everyone knows, was the young Indian woman who, along with her baby, traveled with Lewis and Clark to the Pacific Ocean and back.
The following summary, sponsored by the U. S. Mint, appears on the Internet: Sacagawea was the 15 year-old Shoshone guide who in 1804 - 1806 accompanied the Lewis and Clark expedition from the Northern Great Plains to the Pacific Ocean and back. By: M. R. Hansen. Sacagawea, as everyone knows, was the young Indian woman who, along with her baby, traveled with Lewis and Clark to the Pacific Ocean and back. She was a great help to the expedition and many organizations are preparing celebrations to commemorate the 200-year anniversary of the endeavor
Without Sacajawea, the Indians would probably have killed Lewis and Clark. Sacajawea talked to the people of other tribes so that they would let them cross their territory. Sacajawea saved them from many dangers on their trip. In time, they got to the Great Waters (the Pacific Ocean). 
Alleged to have been Sacajawea, which was interpreted to mean boat launcher, that woman died and was buried on the reservation on April 9, 1884. Dr. Hebard formalized her theory in her 1932 book, Sacagawea: A Guide and Intepreter of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. At the time of her death, Sacagawea was with her husband at Fort Manuel, a Missouri Fur Company trading post in present-day South Dakota. Eight months after her death, Clark legally adopted Sacagaweas two children, Jean Baptiste and Lisette.