The germs that cause bacterial meningitis can be contagious. Some bacteria can spread through the exchange (e.g., by kissing) of respiratory and throat secretions (e.g., saliva or mucus). Fortunately, most of the bacteria that cause meningitis are not as contagious as viruses that cause the common cold or the flu. Bacterial meningitis is usually severe. While most people with meningitis recover, it can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities. There are several pathogens (types of germs) that can cause bacterial meningitis
Viral meningitis. Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Viruses probably account for most cases of meningitis and are an important cause of admission to hospital[1]. Symptoms of viral meningitis include headache, dislike of bright lights, neck stiffness, fever and nausea/vomiting. Individuals may also develop a rash or have muscle pain.
Meningitis is almost always caused by a bacterial or viral infection that began elsewhere in the body, such as in the ears, sinuses, or upper respiratory tract. Less common causes of meningitis include fungal infection, autoimmune disorders, and medications. The bacteria then travel through the bloodstream to the brain. Viral Meningitis. Viral meningitis is more common than the bacterial form and generally -- but not always -- less serious. It can be triggered by a number of viruses, including several that can cause diarrhea. People with viral meningitis are much less likely to have permanent brain damage after the infection resolve
Causes: Viral meningitis: Many different viruses can cause meningitis. About 90% of cases of viral meningitis are caused by members of a group of viruses known as enteroviruses, such as coxsackieviruses and echoviruses. Herpesviruses and the mumps virus can also cause viral meningitis. 
Viral meningitis. Viral meningitis is the most common and the least dangerous. It's caused by viruses, most often enteroviruses that live in the intestines. These viruses can be spread through food, water, or contaminated objects. Meningitis caused by enteroviruses occurs most often in babies and young children.
Viral meningitis. Viral meningitis is the most common and the least dangerous. It's caused by viruses, most often enteroviruses that live in the intestines. These viruses can be spread through food, water, or contaminated objects. Meningitis caused by enteroviruses occurs most often in babies and young children. Most people who get bacterial meningitis get it from one of two types of bacteria: 1  Streptococcus pneumoniae. 2  This is a common type of bacteria that causes a number of illnesses besides meningitis, such as ear and sinus infections and pneumonia.
Meningitis is an inflammation of the tissue that covers the brain and spinal cord. Viral meningitis is the most common type of meningitis. It is often less severe than bacterial meningitis, and most people usually get better on their own (without treatment). However, infants younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe illness. 