By Tripp 1 Comment. In general it takes many months to have an offer in compromise reviewed by the IRS. This is mainly due to the fact that there are approximately 75,000 or more offers filed each year and only a handful of offer examiners.
Usually, after you file your offer in compromise it will take about a month for the IRS to send you a letter that states the IRS has received your offer in compromise and is going to be assigned to an offer examiner for review.
You want to submit an offer in compromise to the IRS, but you need an answer and relief now, fast. Your circumstances are immediate, but it takes the IRS a minimum of 6-9 months to process, investigate and get managerial approval of an offer in compromise. That may not be acceptable.
Answer: I’m glad that you have filed your offer in compromise and taken the first step towards resolving your tax problems with the IRS. The time for an offer in compromise to be resolved varies from case to case, but is generally a pretty long process.
An offer in compromise allows you to settle your tax debt for less than the full amount you owe. It may be a legitimate option if you can't pay your full tax liability, or doing so creates a financial hardship. We consider your unique set of facts and circumstances: 1  Ability to pay; 2  Income; 3  Expenses; and. 4  Asset equity.
For example, 92 percent of offers processed by our Centralized Offer in Compromise sites are currently closed within six months or less. Holtsville NY is the primary center. 72 percent of offers worked in our field groups are currently closed in nine months or less (this is up from 59 percent in 2005).
Based on the latest statistics, the IRS takes an average of 380 days to process an Offer in Compromise application. Your processing time may be shorter or longer than this.
1 You have submitted the $150 application fee or Form 656-A, which is the Income Certification for Offer in Compromise Application Fee and Payment; and.
in Offer in compromise. You want to submit an offer in compromise to the IRS, but you need an answer and relief now, fast. Your circumstances are immediate, but it takes the IRS a minimum of 6-9 months to process, investigate and get managerial approval of an offer in compromise. That may not be acceptable.