Contribution of Streptococcus anginosus to infections caused by groups C and G streptococci, southern India. Emerg Infect Dis [serial on the Internet]. 2010 Apr [ date cited ]. Suggested citation for this article: Reissmann Reißmann, S Friedrichs, C Rajkumari, R Itzek, A Fulde, M RODLOFF, ac et. Al contribution Of streptococcus anginosus to infections caused by Groups c And g, streptococci Southern. india
MICROBIOLOGY. Members of the S. anginosus group are gram-positive, catalase-negative cocci (like other members of the genus Streptococcus). They are non-motile, facultative anaerobes that demonstrate variable hemolysis patterns (alpha, beta, or gamma) on sheep blood agar [ 17 ]. He named these organisms  Streptococcus milleri  in honor of the microbiologist W. D. Miller [ 1,7 ]. The organisms were subsequently recognized as normal flora of the human oral cavity and gastrointestinal tract with the ability to cause abscesses and systemic infections [ 8-12 ].
Together with Streptococcus constellatus and Streptococcus intermedius they constitute the anginosus group, which is sometimes also referred to as the milleri group after the previously assumed single but later refuted species Streptococcus milleri. The majority of Streptococcus anginosus strains produce acetoin from glucose, ferment lactose, trehalose, salicin, and sucrose, and hydrolyze esculin and arginine. Carbon dioxide can stimulate growth or is even required for growth in certain strains.
Lancefield groups C and G comprise a variety of distinct species; of these species, S. dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis, S. equi subsp. zooepidemicus, S. canis, and streptococci of the anginosus group cause severe infections in humans (2 – 5, 17 – 27). Suggested citation for this article: Reissmann Reißmann, S Friedrichs, C Rajkumari, R Itzek, A Fulde, M RODLOFF, ac et. Al contribution Of streptococcus anginosus to infections caused by Groups c And g, streptococci Southern. india
Streptococcus anginosus is part of the human bacteria flora, but can cause diseases including brain and liver abscesses under certain circumstances. The habitat of S. anginosus is a wide variety of sites inside the human body. The majority of Streptococcus anginosus strains produce acetoin from glucose, ferment lactose, trehalose, salicin, and sucrose, and hydrolyze esculin and arginine. Carbon dioxide can stimulate growth or is even required for growth in certain strains.
A: Group A Streptococcus is a bacterium that can cause a wide range of infections. People may also carry group A streptococci in the throat or on the skin and have no symptoms of illness. Most GAS infections are relatively mild illnesses such as strep throat, or impetigo (a skin infection). 
Lancefield groups C and G comprise a variety of species; one of those species, Streptococcus dysgalactiae subsp. equisimilis (SDSE), frequently causes human infections. This species can cause the whole spectrum of infections caused by S. pyogenes (4, 5). Suggested citation for this article: Reissmann Reißmann, S Friedrichs, C Rajkumari, R Itzek, A Fulde, M RODLOFF, ac et. Al contribution Of streptococcus anginosus to infections caused by Groups c And g, streptococci Southern. india
Description of Streptococcus milleri. Streptococcus milleri: A subset of VIRIDANS STREPTOCOCCI, but the species in this group differ in their hemolytic pattern and diseases caused. These species are often beta-hemolytic and produce pyogenic infections. Source: Diseases Database. 
Streptococcal infections are any type of infection caused by the streptococcus (strep) group of bacteria. There are many different types of Streptococci bacteria, and infections vary in severity from mild throat infections to life-threatening infections of the blood or organs. 
Streptococcus intermedius is a member of the Streptococcus anginosus group, also known as the Streptococcus milleri group. Members of this group include S. intermedius, S. anginosus, and S. constellatus [ 1 ]. 