At RubberFlooringInc, we offer several types of underlayment. Foam underlayment is the most popular underlayment and can be used under any flooring surface. Popular with carpet, this flooring underlayment is a favorite of floating floors as well. Rubber underlayment is the most versatile underlay we carry. Rubber can be used under most surfaces, but is not recommended for LVT, LVP, VCT or linoleum. Rubber underlay is very easy to install and maintain. Cork underlayment is very popular with condos, apartments, and HOAs. This is due to the fact that cork can be used under any flooring type and helps to add warmth and comfort under foot.
Underlay is not required with Carpet Tiles, however for added comfort you may choose to use it. The underlay will require gluing down to the sub floor before installing the Carpet Tiles. Some of our Commercial Range Carpet Tiles available in a cushion backing in place of the PVC. Please Contact Us for more details.
You can lay tile over existing vinyl flooring or tile, but the subfloor and underlayment must be in good condition. It’s typically best to remove the old flooring so you can check the subfloor and underlayment.
You really need to pull the carpet underlayment up and use the underlayment approved for your laminate. You will find the underlayment for laminate to be slick on the top side so the finished floor is free to expand and contract. With carpet underlayment, it can hinder that type of movement. In addition to getting a lot of bounce from the carpet underlayment, you will find that any bull nose or transition pieces that are needed to go from the laminate flooring to other types of flooring like tile in the kitchen or bath will not work very well.
The floor and subfloor should be at least 1-1/8 thick for good support. If your existing flooring is cushioned vinyl or linoleum, you can either remove it or cover it with a proper underlayment. You can install tile over tile as long as it's level and in good condition. You may have to roughen the surface of tile if it's too glossy.
Superfloor acoustical carpet underlayment is a premium carpet pad designed for use under carpet and carpet tiles. Most carpet pads are made from foam or rubber and deteriorate very fast causing wear paths and wear spots in the carpet in areas of high traffic.