The myelin sheath is a greatly extended and modified plasma membrane wrapped around the nerve axon in a spiral fashion [ 1 ]. The myelin membranes originate from and are a part of the Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) and the oligodendroglial cells in the central nervous system (CNS) (see Chap. 1). Each myelin-generating cell furnishes myelin for only one segment of any given axon. Two adjacent segments of myelin on one axon are separated by a node of Ranvier. In this region, the axon is not covered by myelin. At the paranodal region and the Schmidt-Lantermann clefts, the cytoplasmic surfaces of myelin are not compacted and Schwann or glial cell cytoplasm is included within the sheath.
Each neuron is made up of a cell body and an axon (the extension of the cell body that carries messages). Most of the axons in the central nervous system are wrapped in myelin, a substance rich in lipids (fatty substances) and proteins. Myelin is present in the central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS); however only the central nervous system is affected by MS. CNS myelin is produced by special cells called oligodendrocytes. PNS myelin is produced by Schwann cells.
Myelin Production. Myelin is produced in your nerve tissues by helper cells called glial cells, which are located adjacent to the nerve cells. Glial cells secrete myelin as an extension of their own cell membranes, and the secreted myelin spirals around your nerve cell axons to form segments of the myelin sheath. In your brain and nerve tissue, cholesterol is required for the formation of the myelin sheath, a fatty material that surrounds long portions of nerve fibers. Myelin insulates nerve cells and enhances the passing of electrical signals throughout your nervous system’s circuitry.
Composition of myelin Edit. Myelin made by different cell types varies in chemical composition and configuration, but performs the same insulating function. Myelinated axons are white in appearance, hence the white matter of the brain. Myelin is composed of about 80% lipid and about 20% protein. 
myelin sheath. n. The insulating envelope of myelin that surrounds the core of a nerve fiber or axon and that facilitates the transmission of nerve impulses, formed from the cell membrane of the Schwann cell in the peripheral nervous system and from oligodendroglia cells. Also called medullary sheath.
Answer by Legendofme. Confidence votes 293. The myelin sheath, an insulating layer around the axon of a neuron, is mainly made up of H20 (40%); the dry mass of myelin is made up of mostly lipids (70 - 80%), and the rest is proteins (30 - 15%). There are three types of myelin protein, one of which is myelin basic protein. 
The myelin sheath, an insulating layer around the axon of a neuron, is mainly made up of H20 (40%); the dry mass of myelin is made up of mostly lipids (70 - 80%), and the rest … is proteins (30 - 15%). 
Myelin is a fatty white substance that surrounds the axon dielectric (electrically insulating) material that forms a layer, the myelin sheath, usually around only the axon of a neuron. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. It is an outgrowth of a type of glial cell. The production of the myelin sheath is called myelination. In humans, myelination begins in the 14th week of fetal development, although little myelin exists in the brain at the time of birth.
myelin sheath (nerve sheath) the sheath surrounding the axon of myelinated nerve cells, consisting of concentric layers of myelin formed in the peripheral nervous system by the plasma membrane of Schwann cells, and in the central nervous system by the plasma membrane of oligodendrocytes. n. The insulating envelope of myelin that surrounds the core of a nerve fiber or axon and that facilitates the transmission of nerve impulses, formed from the cell membrane of the Schwann cell in the peripheral nervous system and from oligodendroglia cells. Also called medullary sheath.
Myelin is vital to the normal functioning of the nervous system. The nerve cell is made up of a cell body and a long, projecting nerve fibre called the axon that is responsible for the transmission of electrical impulses from the cell body to receiving neurons, glands and muscles. Myelin is composed of about 40% water and the dry mass is composed of about 80% lipids and 20% protein. The mainly lipid composition of the myelin gives it a white hue, hence the reference to the brain’s “white matter.” The main lipid found in myelin is a glycolipid called galactocerebroside.