DEFINITION of 'Land Contract'. An agreement between a buyer and seller of property in which the buyer makes payments toward full ownership (as with a mortgage), but in a land contract, the title or deed is held by the owner until the full payment is made. A land contract can be thought of as a lease with an option to buy. Certain states have more generous legal rights for land contract holders than others. As a result, the world of land contracts can be difficult to navigate.
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. A land contract is a written legal contract, or agreement, used to purchase real estate, such as vacant land, a house, an apartment building, a commercial building, or other real property. A land contract is a form of seller financing. It is similar to a mortgage, but rather than borrowing money from a lender or bank to buy real estate, the buyer makes payments to the real estate owner, or seller, until the purchase price is paid in full. When the final payment is made, and all conditions of the land contract are met, the deed to the property will be filed with the appropriate government office, such as the county register of deeds, naming the buyer as the new owner of the property.
In Ohio, a land contract, also called a land installment contract, is an agreement by a seller to sell you land and a house on that land for an agreed price. You, the buyer, agree to make monthly installment payments directly to the seller, plus interest, until paid in full. If you are considering a land contract, have a lawyer look over the agreement. Land contracts generally involve many tens of thousands of dollars and can last for decades, so before signing one it is important to take the time to get a legal opinion. Not all land contracts are the same.
A Contract for Deed (or Land Contract) is a contract for the purchase of real property (real estate) in which the seller retains the deed (title) to the property until the purchaser makes payments in installments equal to the agreed upon purchase price. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A land contract is a contract between the buyer and a private seller of a property, wherein the seller holds the title or deed to the property until all agreed upon payments have been made in full. I sold a house on a land contract on a 60 month to be a balloon payment at the end. the buyer had no intention of paying the balloon payment and forged or signatures using our sin at the tax office to put himself on the deed, claim chapter 13 and i can't get him out. sellers beware.
There are benefits and risks associated with buying through a land contract. Buying real estate through a land contract is fairly straightforward. The buyer gives the seller a down payment for the home or piece of land and the seller acts as the bank, financing the balance of the purchase price. The buyer and seller work together to negotiate an interest rate at the time of purchase
Land contracts. A land contract is a written agreement by which a seller, or “vendor,” promises to convey to the purchaser, or “vendee,” real estate upon the completion of certain obligations, typically on an installment payment plan. 
When the full purchase price has been paid including any interest, the seller is obligated to convey legal title to the property to the buyer. An initial down payment from the buyer to the seller is usually also required by a land contract. The legal status of land contracts varies from region to region. The land contract may also allow the buyer to assign his equitable title/interest in the property to yet another buyer even before the loan is paid in full, subject to conditions in the land contract, effectively reselling his equity in the property to the new buyer.
Since a land contract specifies the sale of a specific item of real estate between a seller and buyer, a land contract can be considered a special type of real estate contract. The land contract may also allow the buyer to assign his equitable title/interest in the property to yet another buyer even before the loan is paid in full, subject to conditions in the land contract, effectively reselling his equity in the property to the new buyer.