A light wave is an example of a transverse wave. Propagation of a transverse spherical wave in a 2d grid (empirical model). A transverse wave is a moving wave that consists of oscillations occurring perpendicular (or right angled) to the direction of energy transfer. If a transverse wave is moving in the positive x-direction, its oscillations are in up and down directions that lie in the y–z plane. Light is an example of a transverse wave. With regard to transverse waves in matter, the displacement of the medium is perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the wave. A ripple in a pond and a wave on a string are easily visualized as transverse waves
Electromagnetic transverse waves: polarisation. Transverse electric and magnetic fields produce each other in light, radio waves and other electromagnetic radiation. Here we demonstrate that electromagnetic radiation is a transverse rather than a longitudinal wave. 
Categorizing waves on this basis leads to three notable categories: transverse waves, longitudinal waves, and surface waves. A transverse wave is a wave in which particles of the medium move in a direction perpendicular to the direction that the wave moves. A transverse wave is a wave in which particles of the medium move in a direction. to the direction that the wave moves. Suppose that a slinky is stretched out in a horizontal direction across the classroom and that a pulse is introduced into the slinky on the left end by vibrating the first coil up and down.
Best Answer: Light waves oscillate perpendicular to the direction of wave travel, which makes them transverse or translational. Sound waves are compression or longitudinal waves in that they oscillate in the direction of travel. The electric and magnetic fields are perpendicular to each other. Perpendicular to both is a vector called (coincidentally) the Poynting vector. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Poynting_ve... The Poynting vector points in the direction of the motion of the light wave. This makes the electromagnetic wave a transverse wave.
Transverse waves. In transverse waves, the oscillations (vibrations) are at right angles to the direction of travel and energy transfer. Light and other types of electromagnetic radiation are transverse waves. All types of electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed through a vacuum, such as through space. Water waves and S waves (a type of seismic wave) are also transverse waves. Your web browser does not have JavaScript switched on at the moment
introduction. Light is a transverse, electromagnetic wave that can be seen by humans. The wave nature of light was first illustrated through experiments on diffraction and interference. Like all electromagnetic waves, light can travel through a vacuum
A transverse wave is a wave that the displacement of the medium is perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the wave. Examples of transverse waves are a ripple in a p … ond and a wave on a string. Transverse waves may occur on a wave, throughout a solid and on the surface of a wave. Yes, light waves are transverse, because in light wave, disturbance of the medium occurs at right angles to the direction of wave propagation of wave.
All types of electromagnetic radiation, including visible light, are transverse waves waves. In transverse waves the vibrations are at right angles to the direction of travel, as seen in the animation below of a wave sent down a piece of string. The hand moves up and down, as does each part of the string. 