In vertebrates, mucus (/mjuːkəs/ MYOO-kəss; adjectival form : mucous) is a slippery secretion produced by, and covering, mucous membranes. Mucous fluid is typically produced from cells found in mucous glands. Mucous cells secrete products that are rich in glycoproteins and water. Mucous fluid may also originate from mixed glands, which contain both serous and mucous cells.
Mucus is a mixture of water, sugars and proteins (and other things that have long, scientific names). But even though this slippery, gooey liquid is far from glamorous, it plays an important role in your health. The mucus that's produced in your respiratory tract has 3 important jobs: Mucus protects. When you're sick, it's possible to have clear, yellow, or green mucus. In fact, you usually produce clear mucus at the beginning of your illness. As your body starts to fight off whatever's bothering it, your mucus changes color.
Mucus also acts as a sort of flypaper, trapping unwanted substances like bacteria and dust before they can get into the body -- particularly the sensitive airways. You want to keep that environment, which is a sterile environment, free of gunk, says Johns. Mucus is kind of sticky and thick. Even when you're healthy, your body is a mucus-making machine, churning out about 1 to 1.5 liters of the stuff every day.
In a healthy body, mucus is commonly clear, but it can also be white or yellow. Viruses like the common cold or flu often result in increased mucus production, especially in the sinus area, but rarely in the stool. You may have an underlying health issue if you begin to see large amounts of mucus in your stool. Excess mucus in the stool is sometimes accompanied by other symptoms, which may be a sign of a bigger problem. These symptoms include: 1  blood or pus in the stool. 2  abdominal pain, cramping, or bloating.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Mucus is a slick substance secreted by the mucous membranes that line many of the body’s inner surfaces, such as the lungs and the nasal passages. It consists of proteins, antimicrobial enzymes, antibodies, and salt. 
Nasal mucus is a clear, sticky, liquid that works as a filter to prevent unwanted particles in the air from entering your body through your nose. Mucus is a natural part of your body’s defenses, but sometimes it can be produced in excess. Dealing with excessive mucus can be frustrating and seemingly never ending. The best way to treat excessive mucus from your nasal passages is to determine what is causing it be produced and treat the underlying problem. 
Your mouth, nose, throat, sinuses and lungs are lined with mucus membranes. These membranes contain mucus glands that produce--surprise--mucus. Mucus-producing membranes line specific passages in your body, like the respiratory and digestive tracts, for protection and support. When you're sick, it's possible to have clear, yellow, or green mucus. In fact, you usually produce clear mucus at the beginning of your illness. As your body starts to fight off whatever's bothering it, your mucus changes color.
Phlegm is a mucus-like substance produced by the lower airways, such as the lungs and the respiratory system leading to the lungs, not by the nose and sinuses, which produce the mucus that streams out of or clogs up your nose. You may not notice phlegm unless you cough it up as a symptom of bronchitis or pneumonia. 
Mucus is a thick gelatinous fluid secreted or produced by various mucus cells that line the intestines, the nose, urinary and reproductive cells and other body organs. Mucus is made up of water, salts, glycoprotein (mucin) and other small cells. 
Your body primarily uses mucus to protect and lubricate your delicate tissues and organs. Mucus is also used to reduce damage that might be caused by stomach acid, bacteria, viruses, fungi, or other potentially harmful fluids or irritants. For those reasons, mucus is a normal part of life. Excess mucus in the stool is sometimes accompanied by other symptoms, which may be a sign of a bigger problem. These symptoms include: 1  blood or pus in the stool. 2  abdominal pain, cramping, or bloating.