In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of ECC file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your ECC file. In the case that your ECC file doesn't open, it is highly likely that you do not have the correct software application installed on your PC to view or edit ECC file extensions.
SAP ECC Software. SAP ECC stands for “Enterprise Central Component, SAP ECC is also referred a R/3 and ERP SAP. SAP is one of the leading ERP software that tracks and manages in real-time sales, production, manufacturing, human resources in an organization. History of SAP ECC Software. SAP AG is a German based company and it is a third largest software company in the world. SAP software was founded in 1972 by five former IBM employees. 1  The first version of SAP software known as R/1 was introduced in 1973. 2  R/1
Author: Essential Security Software. The ECC file extension is a Crypto Contained file used in the Essential Taceo security program. ECC files are encoded using cryptographic techniques to create computer security and protect personal information.
ECC stands for Enterprise Central Component. The purpose of positioning it as ECC is to enable SAP to build and develop an environment of other products that can function upon the foundation of the central component. R/3 Enterprise was replaced with the introduction of ERP Central Component.
Hi, ECC stands for. ERP Central Component. and is the subcessor or SAP R/3. The sequence is: .......... SAP R/3 4.6C. SAP R/3 Enterprise 4.7. SAP ECC 5.0. SAP ECC 6.0. .......... 
It. was renamed SAP ERP. It was later renamed Enterprise Central Component or ECC. SAP is an Enterprise Resource Planning software.SAP ECC 5.0 ERP is the successor of SAP R/3. 4.70. The newest version of the suite is MySAP 2005 or SAP ECC 6.0. The purpose of positioning it as ECC is to enable SAP to build and develop an environment of other products that can function upon the foundation of the central component. R/3 Enterprise was replaced with the introduction of ERP Central Component.
SAP ERP Central Component (ECC) is one of the most recognized assets that SAP owns. It is an enterprise resource planning software which consists in several modules that provide the organizations with great control over their key business processes. 
Dear Christopher, ECC stands for Enterprise Central Component. ERP Stands for Enterprise Resource planning. The below content is taken from wikipedia, SAP R/3 is the former name of the main enterprise resource planning software produced by SAP AG. The purpose of positioning it as ECC is to enable SAP to build and develop an environment of other products that can function upon the foundation of the central component. R/3 Enterprise was replaced with the introduction of ERP
SAP ERP is enterprise resource planning software developed by the German company SAP SE. SAP ERP incorporates the key business functions of an organization. The latest version (SAP ERP 6.0) was made available in 2006. The most recent Enhancement Package (EHP7) for SAP ERP 6.0 was released in 2013. SAP ERP was built based on the former SAP R/3 software. SAP R/3 through version 4.6c consisted of various applications on top of SAP Basis, SAP's set of middleware programs and tools. When SAP R/3 Enterprise was launched in 2002, all applications were built on top of the SAP Web Application Server.