Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: dusky (Noun). A dusky shark. dusky (Noun). A dusky dolphin. dusky (Adjective). Dimly lit, as at dusk (evening). I like it when it is dusky, just before the street lights come on. dusky (Adjective). A shade of color that is rather dark. 
It is commonly thought that the dusky dolphin was first described by John Edward Gray in 1828 from stuffed skin and a single skull shipped from the Cape of Good Hope to the British Museum. The dusky dolphin is small to medium in length compared with other species in the family. There is significant variation in size among the different population areas. The largest dusky dolphins have been encountered off the coast of Peru, where they are up to 210 cm (6 feet) in length and 100 kg (210 pounds) in mass.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of dusky is something dim or darkish in color. 1  A dim light similar to the one you get right as the sun is setting is an example of something that would be described as dusky. 2  A dark-red color is an example of something that might be described as dusky. 
Full Definition of DUSKY. 1. : somewhat dark in color; specifically: having dark skin. 2. : marked by slight or deficient light: shadowy. — dusk·i·ly \-kə-lē\ adverb. — dusk·i·ness \-kē-nəs\ noun. See dusky defined for English-language learners. See dusky defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Welcome aboard DUSKY MARINE, the home of custom built sport fishing boats. Since 1967, DUSKY MARINE has been a family success story; an enduring partnership in family and boat-building craftsmanship. Every legendary Dusky boat hull is individually produced with more hand-laid fiberglass than any other boat in its class. Whether you need a tournament ready rig, a functional bluewater fishing machine, or a practical walkaround cabin boat, the Dusky factory is ready to accommodate your dreams.
Adult dusky sharks have a broad and varied diet, consisting mostly of bony fishes, sharks and rays, and cephalopods, but also occasionally crustaceans, sea stars, bryozoans, sea turtles, marine mammals, carrion, and garbage. Because of its slow reproductive rate, the dusky shark is very vulnerable to human-caused population depletion. This species is highly valued by commercial fisheries for its fins, used in shark fin soup, and for its meat, skin, and liver oil. It is also esteemed by recreational fishers.
Dusky 227's step V hull and hard chine line not only make her a high riding, dry craft but also allow you to challenge the fishing grounds comfortably. The Dusky 278 is a rugged center console, the ultimate offshore fishing machine and the choice of serious fishermen everywhere. The Dusky 218 RL is perfect for use as a back country boat, water skiing boat, bay boat and offshore boat. Dusky boats are custom designed to meet your boating needs, whatever they may be. Every legendary Dusky boat hull is individually produced with more hand-laid fiberglass than any other boat in its class. Whether you need a tournament ready rig, a functional bluewater fishing machine, or a practical walkaround cabin boat, the Dusky factory is ready to accommodate your dreams.
Sometimes, the Dusky Dolphin is referred to as the Fitzroy’s Dolphin which is the name that Charles Darwin gave them. They are a close relative to the Pacific White Sided Dolphin. In fact, it took a great deal of information and DNA for scientists to separate them into different classifications. Both the lower and upper jaw of the Dusky Dolphin feature teeth. There isn’t the same number of pairs though in the lower and upper areas. What you will find is that the lower jaw features two more sets than the upper jaw.
The dusky dolphin (Lagenorhynchus obscurus) is a dolphin found in coastal waters in the Southern Hemisphere. Its specific epithet is Latin for dark or dim. It is very closely genetically related to the Pacific white-sided dolphin, but current scientific consensus holds they are distinct species. The dusky dolphin is small to medium in length compared with other species in the family. There is significant variation in size among the different population areas. The largest dusky dolphins have been encountered off the coast of Peru, where they are up to 210 cm (6 feet) in length and 100 kg (210 pounds) in mass.
2. dusky-naturally having skin of a dark color; a dark-skinned beauty; gold earrings gleamed against her dusky cheeks; a smile on his swarthy face; `swart' is archaic. swart, swarthy, dark-skinned. archaicism, archaism-the use of an archaic expression. Her eyes as stars of Twilight fair; Like Twilight's, too, her dusky hair; But all things else about her drawn From May-time and the cheerful Dawn; A dancing Shape, an Image gay, To haunt, to startle, and way-lay. Rebecca Of Sunnybrook Farm by Wiggin, Kate Douglas View in context.