1. fortnight-a period of fourteen consecutive days; most major tennis tournaments last a fortnight. two weeks. period, period of time, time period-an amount of time; a time period of 30 years; hastened the period of time of his recovery; Picasso's blue period. Translations. Yes,--not for good and all, of course, but just for, say, a fortnight, just a fortnight of rambles and adventures, and then to deliver me safe home again where you found me--.
Fortnight and fortnightly are commonly used words in the English-speaking world, where some wages, salaries and social security benefits are paid on a fortnightly basis, except North America, where it is rare outside some Canadian regions and insular traditional communities (e.g. Amish) in the United States. In Irish, the term is coicis. Coicís slavic: languages In czech the terms čtrnactidenni čtrnáctidenní and dvoutýdenni dvoutýdenní have the same. Meaning as fortnight semitic languages have a ; special doubling suffix when added at the end of the, word for week it changes the meaning. to two weeks
Fortnight (Old English) is an Old English contraction of ‘fourteen nights’, and reflects an ancient Germanic custom of reckoning time by nights rather than days. The original night of the long knives was the legendary massacre of the Britons by the Saxon leader Hengist in 472. 1 He began to recover a fortnight ago and, after a sparkling piece of work last Tuesday, he was back on target. 2  In the past fortnight six new sea lion pups have been born and two wolf cubs made their first public appearances.
Slavic languages: in Czech the terms čtrnactidenni čtrnáctidenní and dvoutýdenni dvoutýdenní have the same meaning. As fortnight semitic languages have a special ; doubling suffix when added at the end of the word, for week it changes the meaning to. Two Weeks, in hebrew-the single (word′שבועיים) shvu ayim means exactly. two weeks In Irish, the term is coicis. Coicís slavic: languages In czech the terms čtrnactidenni čtrnáctidenní and dvoutýdenni dvoutýdenní have the same. Meaning as fortnight semitic languages have a ; special doubling suffix when added at the end of the, word for week it changes the meaning. to two weeks
fortnight. n. 1. a period of 14 consecutive days; two weeks. [Old English fēowertīene niht fourteen nights]. Yes,--not for good and all, of course, but just for, say, a fortnight, just a fortnight of rambles and adventures, and then to deliver me safe home again where you found me--.
Full Definition of FORTNIGHT. : a period of 14 days: two weeks. 
What is the origin word of fortnight? It means a consecutive period of 14 days, the word derives from the Old English words 'feowertyne niht' literally meaning 14 nights. Fortnight is a commonly used word in Britain and many Commonwealth countries such as Pakist … an, India, New Zealand and Australia where many wages, salaries and most social security benefits are paid on a fortnightly basis. The word is rarely used in the United States, but is used regionally in Canada
For more information see eclipse cycle. In astronomy, a fortnight is half a synodic month, the mean time between a full moon and a new moon (and vice versa). This is equal to 14.77 days. In the Hindu calendar this period is called a Paksha (also Paksa) and consists of 15 Tithi. In Irish, the term is coicis. Coicís slavic: languages In czech the terms čtrnactidenni čtrnáctidenní and dvoutýdenni dvoutýdenní have the same. Meaning as fortnight semitic languages have a ; special doubling suffix when added at the end of the, word for week it changes the meaning. to two weeks
The term Fortnight comes from the Old English term feowertiene  niht, or fourteen nights. So a fortnight is anything 14 days in  advance. Therefore given that there are … 365 days in any given year,  there would be 26 fortnights in a year. + 7 others found this useful. Fortnight is a commonly used word in Britain and many Commonwealth countries such as Pakist … an, India, New Zealand and Australia where many wages, salaries and most social security benefits are paid on a fortnightly basis. The word is rarely used in the United States, but is used regionally in Canada