These sampling techniques are not mutually exclusive, and in fact they are often used in tandem to reduce the degree of sampling error in an analysis and allow for a greater degree of confidence in making statistical inferences from the sample in regard to the larger group. This alone, however, is not enough to make the sampling bias negligible. Combining the random sampling technique with the representative sampling method leads to further reduced bias because no specific member of the representative population has a greater chance of selection into the sample than any other.
Theoretically, the only thing that can compromise its representativeness is luck. If the sample is not representative of the population, the random variation is called sampling error. An unbiased random selection and a representative sample is important in drawing conclusions from the results of a study. Remember that one of the goals of research is to be able to make conclusions pertaining to the population from the results obtained from a sample. 
A representative sample is drawn from a population of interest and has demographics and characteristics that match those of the population in as many ways as possible. Summary. A representative sample is demographically and characteristically similar to the population of interest. When the sample matches the population, it can be inferred that any effects shown by the sample are likely to be reflected in the population, too. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
A random sample is a group or set chosen from a larger population or group of factors of instances in a random manner that allows for each member of the larger group to have an equal chance of being chosen. This alone, however, is not enough to make the sampling bias negligible. Combining the random sampling technique with the representative sampling method leads to further reduced bias because no specific member of the representative population has a greater chance of selection into the sample than any other.
A representative sample is a group or set chosen from a larger statistical population or group of factors or instances that adequately replicates the larger group according to whatever characteristic or quality is under study. This alone, however, is not enough to make the sampling bias negligible. Combining the random sampling technique with the representative sampling method leads to further reduced bias because no specific member of the representative population has a greater chance of selection into the sample than any other.
DEFINITION of 'Representative Sample'. A subset of a statistical population that accurately reflects the members of the entire population. A representative sample should be an unbiased indication of what the population is like. In a classroom of 30 students in which half the students are male and half are female, a representative sample might include six students: three males and three females. Next Up. A representative sample is a group that is chosen to depict or represent a larger population according to one or more characteristics ...
A representative sample should be an unbiased indication of what the population is like. In a classroom of 30 students in which half the students are male and half are female, a representative sample might include six students: three males and three females. The representative sample is that how preciously you collect sample from the target population. There is no quantitative method for this purpose, and the person who make sampling frame can assess how much sample is representative of
Best Answer: In a random sample, everyone has the same chance of being chosen to participate... like the U.S. Census surveys. You would have a random sample if you picked out every 5th person in the phone book to be in the sample. A representative sample is chosen from a specific group of people to represent that group. A sample of high school students, for example, or a sample of Cosmopolitan reader