Best Answer: Iron deficiency can be a problem, even for those who think they eat properly. This may occur from not eating foods which contain enough iron or not being able to absorb enough iron from food. To prevent iron deficiency, it helps to know a little about the nutrient, iron, and where it can be obtained. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: First, only a doctor can tell you if you have this problem (anemia). Second, you generally get pretty tired because iron is the thing in your red blood cells (hemoglobin) that carries oxygen around your body. So if you don't have enough iron, you're not getting enough oxygen, which could cause some issues if it becomes severe enough. If you don't want to go to a doctor to find out, start taking a multivitamin with iron in it, and see if you feel better. Source(s): trista.maye · 7 years ago.
When you don't get enough iron in your body you may get anemia, excessive menstrual bleeding, learning dissabilities, impaired immune functions, low body temperature, li … ght headedness, dizzy spells, fatigue, weak and/or tiredness. You may also go pale in the face and need to rest more in excersise. 
What happens if you don't get enough iron. When you're not getting enough iron, your stores become depleted over time. If you no longer have enough iron in your blood to make the hemoglobin you need, you become anemic. Iron-deficiency anemia can sap your energy and cause a host of other symptoms, especially if it's severe. It can also make it harder for your body to fight infection.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. When you don't get enough iron in your body you may get anemia, excessive menstrual bleeding, learning dissabilities, impaired immune functions, low body temperature, light headedness, dizzy spells, fatigue, weak and/or tiredness. Sleeping helps regenerate your brain cells, so if you don't get enough sleep for a long period of time, you will die. For one day without enough sleep, you feel like losing yo … ur self and it gets stronger if you continue to not have enough sleep.
Blood Loss. When you lose blood, you lose iron. If you don't have enough iron stored in your body to make up for the lost iron, you'll develop iron-deficiency anemia. In women, long or heavy menstrual periods or bleeding fibroids in the uterus may cause low iron levels. Blood loss that occurs during childbirth is another cause of low iron levels in women. 
Folate deficiency anemia. Folate, also called folic acid, is also needed to make red blood cells. This type of anemia can occur if you don't consume enough folate or if you have problems absorbing vitamins. It also may occur during the third trimester of pregnancy, when your body needs extra folate. You also can get this type of anemia if the foods you eat don't have enough vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is found in foods that come from animals. Fortified breakfast cereals also have vitamin B12. Folic acid supplements (pills) can treat this type of anemia.
Iron deficiency anemia. If you don't get enough iron from your diet, you could develop iron deficiency anemia. This condition means you aren't getting enough iron in the foods you eat to make hemoglobin, leading to a loss of energy. Signs of iron deficiency anemia include: 1  weakness. 2  fatigue (feeling tired). If you have an iron deficiency because there isn't enough iron in your diet, your health care provider may suggest an iron supplement. Follow his or her instructions. Iron supplements can cause stomach or intestinal upsets such as nausea, constipation or diarrhea. Too much stored iron can damage internal organs