Medication. Sometimes, constipation may be a side effect of a medicine you are taking. Common types of medication that can cause constipation include: 1  aluminium antacids (medicine to treat indigestion). 2  antidepressants. 3  antiepileptics (medicine to treat epilepsy). 4  antipsychotics (medicine to treat schizophrenia and other mental health conditions). 5  calcium supplements. Constipation usually occurs when stools remain in the colon (large intestine) for too long and the colon absorbs too much water from them, causing the stools to become hard and dry. Most cases of constipation are not caused by a specific condition and it may be difficult to identify the exact cause.
Some types of iron supplements may increase the likelihood of constipation, as well as gas and bloating. Although it's unclear why some people become constipated due to iron supplementation, you can reduce your risk by taking other forms of iron that are less likely to cause gastrointestinal side effects. Discuss any concerns you about about supplementation with your physician.
If you take iron supplements, mention the constipation to your health care provider. Although iron is an important nutrient during pregnancy, too much iron can contribute to pregnancy constipation. If you haven't had a bowel movement in three days, ask your health care provider for a recommendation. If your health care provider approves stool softeners or other types of laxatives, use them as directed.
Relaxation of the intestinal muscle causes food and waste to move slower through your system. Sometimes iron tablets may contribute to constipation. Make sure you are drinking plenty of water if you are taking iron supplements. Constipation During Pregnancy: Causes, Prevention and Treatment. Constipation occurs when there is abdominal pain or discomfort, difficult and infrequent bowel movements, and the passage of hard stools. Unfortunately, constipation affects approximately half of all women at some point during their pregnancy.
If yes, be aware of iron supplements constipation. You are probably about to start iron supplementation, and constipation is one of the most frequently reported side effects. In the elderly, it may also lead to a condition called fecal impaction, a serious complication of unresolved constipation. In this article, we will first discuss the role of iron in human physiology. In a second step, we will talk about iron supplements, contrast them with dietary sources, and explain why they cause constipation. Finally, we will discuss practical steps you can take to minimize the risk of constipation.
Iron is vital for your body throughout life. It is a part of the red blood cells, and it carries oxygen to all parts of the body. Iron from some food sources, such as meat, is readily absorbed into the body. When iron supplements are used, the iron is not readily absorbed and can result in constipation. Increasing the amount of vitamin C in your diet can enhance the absorption of iron in your body. Facts about Iron Supplements. Iron supplements are helpful if you are unable to get enough iron in your diet. Foods such as red meat, dried beans, fortified cereals and molasses have high amounts of iron. Multivitamins generally provide 30 mg iron daily, while some iron supplements can provide 60 mg or more.
Constipation is common in pregnancy because the pregnancy hormone progesterone relaxes and slows down the movement of food through your intestines. You are likely to suffer from constipation if you: Anaemia may contribute to your constipation (Banhidy et al 2011) . And some iron tablets used to treat anaemia may actually make constipation worse (Melamed et al 2007) . 
Best Answer: Iron tablets do cause black poo and can cause constipation but I also used Fefol and they are designed to be slow release and not cause constipation. I have used them for years and I've never had a problem with constipation except when I was pregnant. · just now. Report Abuse. I know iron tablets can make you really constipated plus-the aren't absorbed by your body if they aren't taken with Vitamin C. If they are causing you problems why don't you just try to get iron from natural sources...which absorb better.