Profile. Bunzl plc is a distribution group supplying a range of non-food consumable products for customers to operate their businesses but which they do not actually sell. The Company partners with both suppliers and customers in providing outsourcing solutions and service oriented distribution. 
Bunzl Distribution USA, Inc. supplies a range of products including outsourced food packaging, disposable supplies, and cleaning and safety products to food processors, supermarkets, non-food retailers, convenience stores and other users. Bunzl Distribution owns and operates more than 100 warehouses that serve all 50 states and Puerto Rico, as well as Canada, the Caribbean and parts of Mexico. With more than 4,000 employees and 400,000-plus supply items, Bunzl is regarded as a leading supplier in North America.
About. We are a focused and successful international distribution and outsourcing group with operations across the Americas, Europe and Australasia. We support businesses all over the world with a variety of products that are essential for our customers in the successful operation of their businesses
Welcome to Bunzl Outsourcing Services. Bunzl Outsourcing Services is a specialist distribution group supplying everyday essentials for our customers to operate their businesses. We are successful because we understand our customers needs and deliver products when and where they need them. 
Efficient and ethical management of our operations and long term relationships with all of our stakeholders are key to our sustained business success. We support businesses all over the world with a variety of products that are essential for our customers in the successful operation of their businesses. We work proactively with our customers to provide bespoke product ranges and a service that they can rely on. We support businesses all over the world with a variety of products that are essential for our customers in the successful operation of their businesses. Half yearly financial report for six months ended 30 June 2015.
Bunzl has operations in 23 countries: almost half of its business is conducted in North America, with major operations in Europe as well as a smaller presence in Australasia and Brazil. In 1883, his 3 sons, Max Bunzl, Ludwig Bunzl and Julius Bunzl, changed the name of the company to Bunzl & Biach AG, and moved the headquarters to Vienna, Austria. From 1888 they began manufacturing paper in Ortmann, and then at Wattens paper mill.
A. Bunzl is the leading supplier of disposable paper and plastic packaging supplies to an array of businesses and industries including supermarkets (retailers, self-distributing chains and wholesalers), food processors, non-food retailers and convenience stores. A. Bunzl is very heavily involved with many formats of Electronic Interchange. Standard formats supported include ANSI X.12- and XML-based transaction sets. Many forms of proprietary file formats are utilized at the specific request of customers.
Bunzl restructured itself as a company purely focused on distribution through a divestment process which began in the early 1990s and ended with the 2005 spin out of Filtrona. In 1883, his 3 sons, Max Bunzl, Ludwig Bunzl and Julius Bunzl, changed the name of the company to Bunzl & Biach AG, and moved the headquarters to Vienna, Austria. From 1888 they began manufacturing paper in Ortmann, and then at Wattens paper mill.
Bunzl Food Processor Supplies is a specialist distribution group supplying everyday essentials for our customers to operate their businesses. We are successful because we understand our customers’ needs and deliver products when and where they need them. As a leading supplier to the food processor and retail supplies markets our comprehensive product range is targeted towards meeting the needs of customers within the following sectors; Abattoirs, Butchers/Meat Departments, Dairies, Supermarkets, Smallgoods Manufacturers and Fish, Poultry & Food Processors.