Introduction. Paralysis is loss of the ability to move one or more muscles. It may be associated with loss of feeling and other bodily functions. It is not usually caused by problems with the muscles themselves, but by problems with the nerves or spinal cord the brain uses to control muscles. A person with paralysis will usually have some form of nerve damage. 
Clinically the quadriceps is the reference muscle for the nerve roots L3 and L4. An absent patellar reflex may reveal a spinal disc herniation at the height of L3 or L4. In contrast a paralysis of the quadriceps by a peripheral lesion is typically demonstrated by the inability to walk adequately and to climb the stairs. 
Of main consideration regarding the optimal management for a person with facial paralysis are the cause and duration of the paralysis. In cases of congenital (present since birth) facial paralysis, the facial nerve and facial muscles may not have developed appropriately or may be absent. Attempting to provide a new nerve source to these muscles, then, is not logical or possible, but other types of reconstruction are possible. Once a muscle has lost its nerve source for any reason, there is a window of opportunity to provide a nerve to those original muscles. After that window has passed, usually about 12-24 months, the original muscles can no longer accept a nerve. In those cases, a nerve supply as well as new muscle must be provided.
The chain of nerve cells that runs from the brain through the spinal cord out to the muscle is called the motor pathway. Normal muscle function requires intact connections all along this motor pathway. Damage at any point reduces the brain's ability to control the muscle's movements. Paralysis results from damage to parts of the nervous system. The kind of paralysis resulting, and the degree, depend on whether the damage is to the central nervous system or the peripheral
In cases where the muscles are normal and the paralysis is recent, the reconstruction is focused on the nerve supply. Nerve grafts or transfers may be used to recreate a nerve connection to an otherwise normal muscle. In cases of long-standing facial paralysis, new muscle and a new nerve supply must be established. Once a muscle has lost its nerve source for any reason, there is a window of opportunity to provide a nerve to those original muscles. After that window has passed, usually about 12-24 months, the original muscles can no longer accept a nerve. In those cases, a nerve supply as well as new muscle must be provided.
In cases related to an injury, the facial nerve and muscles may be present and of normal structure, just not in continuity. After a muscle loses its nerve supply (from any cause), there is a critical window of about 12-24 months to supply a nerve source to that muscle. After this window of opportunity, the muscle is not able to accept a nerve. Consideration is given to the cause and duration of the facial paralysis, potential for improvement, the overall health of the child, and the desires of the child and his or her family. Treatment is tailored specifically for the individual child. Management of facial paralysis may or may not involve surgery.
paralysis of the fourth nerve A condition characterized by a hypertropia of the eye with the affected superior oblique muscle. It may be due to a lesion of the fourth cranial nerve or its nucleus as a result of injury (the most common cause), vascular lesions, aneurysm or tumour. Paralysis results from damage to parts of the nervous system. The kind of paralysis resulting, and the degree, depend on whether the damage is to the central nervous system or the peripheral
1 Static reconstructions provide support and improve balance, but do not move. 2  Dynamic reconstructions provide movement. 3  Nerve grafts or nerve transfers may provide a nerve source to fire a muscle. 4  Muscle transfers can provide a new muscle source when the original facial musculature is not able to be reconstructed. Consideration is given to the cause and duration of the facial paralysis, potential for improvement, the overall health of the child, and the desires of the child and his or her family. Treatment is tailored specifically for the individual child. Management of facial paralysis may or may not involve surgery.
By. Dr. T. Balasubramanian M.S. D.L.O. Definition: Vocal cord paralysis is caused by paralysis of intrinsic muscles of larynx. This is a symptom of an underlying disorder and not a disease by itself. The intrinsic muscles of the vocal cord are supplied by the vagus nerve. The term vagus means wanderer which is the apt term to describe this nerve becuase of its long anatomical course. Unilateral vocal fold paralysis occurs due to dysfunction of recurrent laryngeal or vagus nerve causes a breathy voice