The scientific name of stink bugs, Pentatomoidea, has been derived from the fact that they have an antenna which is divided into five segments. Stink bugs have broad bodies that are either in triangular or semi-elliptical shape. Green Stink Bugs. The green stink bugs, scientifically known as Acrosternum hilare, are the species of stink bugs that belong to Pentatomoidea family. Since it originates from Asian countries particularly Japan and China, they are also called as Asian Stink Bugs.
The tarsi are 3-segmented. The forewings of stink bugs are called hemelytra, with the basal half thickened while the apex is membranous (as are the hindwings). The stink bug derives its name from its tendency to eject a foul smelling glandular substance secreted from pores in the thorax when disturbed.
Killing a stink bug can be a messy, unpleasant matter since many methods will cause the bug to release an extremely pungent odor. Soapy water is one of the least messy and most effective methods to use, but other organic and chemical pesticides also exist. 1 Work quickly. 2  Some species of stink bugs can fly and may escape if you do not manage to flick it off in one fell swoop. 3  Stink bugs should drown within 20 to 40 seconds. 4  The bugs breathe through pores beneath their waxy exterior shells, and when soap plugs these pores up, the bugs suffocate.
The adults are approximately 1.7 centimetres (0.67 in) long and about as wide, forming the shield shape characteristic of other stink bugs. They are various shades of brown on both the top and undersides, with gray, off-white, black, copper, and bluish markings. The odor from the stink bug is due to trans-2-decenal and trans-2-Octenal. The smell has been characterized as a pungent odor that smells like coriander .. The stink bug's ability to emit an odor through holes in its abdomen is a defense mechanism meant to prevent it from being eaten by birds and lizards.
Stink bugs get their name from the unpleasant odor they produce when they are threatened. Scientists think this odor helps protect the bugs against predators. The stink bugs produce the smelly chemical in a gland on their abdomen. Some species can actually spray the chemical several inches. Since most stink bugs feed on plants outdoors, homeowners often do not notice them until the bugs make their way inside the home. In some areas, certain stink bugs enter homes and other buildings during the summer and fall. They spend the winter inside walls, attics or crawl spaces.
The idiomatic term stink bug is also applied to distantly related species such as Boisea trivittata, the boxelder bug, and entirely different types of insects such as beetles in the genus Eleodes ( pinacate beetles ). The forewings of stink bugs are called hemelytra, with the basal half thickened while the apex is membranous (as are the hindwings). The stink bug derives its name from its tendency to eject a foul smelling glandular substance secreted from pores in the thorax when disturbed.
Stink bugs are large, oval or shield-shaped insects. They are members of the insect order Hemiptera and the family Pentatomidae. They get their common name from the odor of the chemical that they produce in glands on their abdomen. Scientists suspect this odor might be a defense against predators. Depending on the species, adults can reach almost 2 cm in length.
Stink bugs, sometimes referred to as shield bugs, are members of the Hemiptera order. These bugs are aptly named because they have small glands located on the thorax that are capable of emitting a bad smelling liquid. Stink bugs are part of an order of insects sometimes called true bugs, which do not chew with their mouths; instead, they have a proboscis that allows them to suck the liquids out of vegetation or other creatures.
According to North Dakota State University, there are 4,700 species of stink bugs in the world, with about 250 in the U.S. and Canada. Our pest is known as the brown marmorated stink bug (Halyomorpha halys). It gets its name from the brown marbling pattern on its back. To identify them, look for striping on its antennae, a striped pattern along the abdomen and smooth shoulders. It has a five-sided, shield-shaped body and is about 3/4 of an inch long.