Because of the breadth of the UDAP law, and the recent increased use of it by the Commission and the federal banking regulatory agencies to enforce good business practices, we thought it would be helpful to provide each of you with an overview of UDAP—what it is and what it should mean to each of you.
Your business’s name means a lot. It identifies your brand. It signifies your reputation. And it’s how your loyal customers know you. But when a competitor sets up a business with a name that’s similar or identical to yours, your customers can become confused, you can lose business, and your reputation may suffer.
For this reason, it is important that each of you examine your marketing materials, sales techniques, and business arrangements to ensure compliance with all current banking and consumer finance laws, and also critical consumer protection laws such as UDAP.
Copyrighting a Business Name. Copyrights protect original works of authorship. Names, including business names, are not considered works of authorship and are not eligible for copyright protection. Internet Names. You can protect your business name online by registering it as a domain name. A domain name is the Internet address you type into your Internet browser, and you can purchase a domain name from a company that provides domain registration services.
Take the following precautions to protect your business against phony billing schemes: 1. Don t place phone orders unless you re sure it is a reputable firm.2. Be sure of the organization s name, address and phone number as well as the solicitor s name and his or her position with the company.
The following are some of the proactive actions that you and your employees can take to help prevent your business identity information from being used by criminals to steal from you or commit fraud in your name.
A state UDAP statute’s substantive protections—the extent to which it prohibits unfair and decep-tive acts and practices—is one of its mostimportant features. The strongest statutes in-clude broad, general prohibitions against bothdeceptive conduct and unfair conduct.