In the case of the Calvin Cycle, the input molecules are carbon dioxide, ATP, and NADPH. The output molecules are sugar, ADP, NADP+, and inorganic phosphate (Pi). The recycled molecule is ribulose bisphosphate (RuBP). Examine figure 2 and locate these molecules in the cycle. 
Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate (RuBP) is an organic substance that is involved in photosynthesis. The anion is a double phosphate ester of the ketose (ketone-containing sugar) called ribulose. Salts of this species can be isolated, but its crucial biological function involves this colourless anion in solution. The product is the highly unstable 6-carbon intermediate known as 3-keto-2-carboxyarabinitol 1,5-bisphosphate. This six-carbon intermediate decays virtually instantaneously into two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) (see figure).
Rubisco catalysis the connection of the small molecule ribulose-1.5-bisphosphate phosphate (RuBP) to carbon dioxide-therefore fixing the inorganic CO2 as an organic molecule. RuBP contains 5 carbons as well as oxygen, hydrogen and phosphate and it bonds to the CO2 to create a 6 carbon molecule. This promptly splits into two small 3 carbon molecules as shown in the reaction scheme below: RuBP reacting with carbon dioxide.
When carbon dioxide is the substrate, the product of the carboxylase reaction is a highly unstable six-carbon phosphorylated intermediate known as 3-keto-2-carboxyarabinitol-1,5-bisphosphate, which decays virtually instantaneously into two molecules of glycerate-3-phosphate. RuBisCO is usually only active during the day as ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate is not regenerated in the dark. This is due to the regulation of several other enzymes in the Calvin cycle. In addition, the activity of RuBisCO is coordinated with that of the other enzymes of the Calvin cycle in several ways.
What is the difference between rubisco and RuBP?   Ribulose bisphosphate, known as RuBP, is a 5-carbon sugar that is used in the Dark reactions (Calvin cycle) to fix carbon from CO2 (carbon dioxide). The Dark reactions b … egin when one molecule of CO2 is attached to RuBP. This is where RuBisCO comes in. RuBP is ribulose bis phosphate. It is an organic compound used in Calvin cycle, it is used to fix CO2 during Calvin cycle. where one CO2 molecule is covalently bonded to RuBP to form an unstable intermediary compound that later breaks down by an enzymatic reactions to form G3P.
RuBP is ribulose biphosphate. It's purpose is in the dark reaction. It is formed by taking a phosphate, coming from the splitting of ATP, and joining it with RuP, changing RuP (ribulose phospate) into RuBP. RuBP is then able to join with CO2 and form an unstable 6C molecule which is the basis for the dark reaction.
(Redirected from RuBisCo). Ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase, commonly known by the abbreviation RuBisCO, is an enzyme involved in the first major step of carbon fixation, a process by which atmospheric carbon dioxide is converted by plants to energy-rich molecules such as glucose. RuBisCO is usually only active during the day as ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate is not regenerated in the dark. This is due to the regulation of several other enzymes in the Calvin cycle. In addition, the activity of RuBisCO is coordinated with that of the other enzymes of the Calvin cycle in several ways.
In the Calvin Cycle, carbon molecules from CO2 are fixed into glucose (C6H12O2). The reactions of the Calvin Cycle is as follows: 1. A five-carbon sugar molecule called ribulose bisphosphate, or RuBP, is the acceptor that binds CO2 dissolved in the stroma. This process, called CO2 fixation, is catalyzed by the enzyme RuBP carboxylase, forming an unstable six-carbon molecule. In the first stage of the carbon cycle (called carbon fixation) CO2 enters the chloroplast, from the stomata of the leaves, which is where the Calvin cycle will take place, specifically in the stroma of the chloroplast.
The Calvin cycle showing the role of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate. The enzyme ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase (RuBisCO) catalyzes the reaction between RuBP and carbon dioxide. The product is the highly unstable 6-carbon intermediate known as 3-keto-2-carboxyarabinitol 1,5-bisphosphate. This six-carbon intermediate decays virtually instantaneously into two molecules of 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PGA) (see figure).