Cardiac muscle, found only in the heart, powers the action that pumps blood throughout the body. Its big features are endurance and consistency. Smooth muscle surrounds or is part of the internal organs. Smooth muscle is found in the digestive system, blood vessels, bladder, airways and, in a female, the uterus. Skeletal muscles can do a short, single contraction (twitch) or a long, sustained contraction (tetanus), and might ache after strenuous exercise. The stomach is an organ of the alimentary canal, a muscular tube that forms part of the digestive system. The wall of the stomach contains smooth muscle tissue.
Skeletal Muscles Bodily movement is carried out by the interaction of the muscular and skeletal systems. For this reason, they are often grouped together as the musculo-skeletal system. Muscle is attached to bone by tendons and other tissues, and exerts force by converting chemical energy into tension and contraction. Skeletal muscles can do a short, single contraction (twitch) or a long, sustained contraction (tetanus), and might ache after strenuous exercise. The stomach is an organ of the alimentary canal, a muscular tube that forms part of the digestive system. The wall of the stomach contains smooth muscle tissue.
Main article: Muscle. There are three distinct types of muscles: skeletal muscles, cardiac or heart muscles, and smooth (non-striated) muscles. Muscles provide strength, balance, posture, movement and heat for the body to keep warm. Upon stimulation by an action potential, skeletal muscles perform a coordinated contraction by shortening each sarcomere. The best proposed model for understanding contraction is the sliding filament model of muscle contraction
Skeletal muscle is under voluntary control. Nerve impulses that originate in the central nervous system cause muscles to contract. Both neurons and muscle tissue conduct electrical current by moving ions across cellular membranes. A motor neuron ends in a synapse with a muscle fiber. 
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. 
Function of Muscle Tissue. The main function of the muscular system is movement. Muscles are the only tissue in the body that has the ability to contract and therefore move the other parts of the body. Related to the function of movement is the muscular system’s second function: the maintenance of posture and body position. Muscles often contract to hold the body still or in a particular position rather than to cause movement.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Related to the function of movement is the muscular system’s second function: the maintenance of posture and body position. Muscles often contract to hold the body still or in a particular position rather than to cause movement.
The muscular system in vertebrates is controlled through the nervous system, although some muscles (such as the cardiac muscle) can be completely autonomous. Together with the skeletal system it forms the musculoskeletal system, which is responsible for movement of the human body. Muscles provide strength, balance, posture, movement and heat for the body to keep warm. Upon stimulation by an action potential, skeletal muscles perform a coordinated contraction by shortening each sarcomere.
The muscular system is an organ system consisting of skeletal, smooth and cardiac muscles. It permits movement of the body, maintains posture, and circulates blood throughout the body. Muscles provide strength, balance, posture, movement and heat for the body to keep warm. Upon stimulation by an action potential, skeletal muscles perform a coordinated contraction by shortening each sarcomere.
Messages from the nervous system cause these muscle contractions. The whole process is called the mechanism of muscle contraction and it can be summarized in three steps: (1) A message travels from the nervous system to the muscular system, triggering chemical reactions. 