If a person s spouse dies, the widow / widower is absolutely free to remarry. The Apostle Paul allowed widows to remarry in 1 Corinthians 7:8-9 and encouraged younger widows to remarry in 1 Timothy 5:14. Remarriage after the death of a spouse is absolutely allowed by God. Recommended Resources: Finding Your Way After Your Spouse Dies by Marta Felber and Logos Bible Software.
Question: What does the Bible say about remarriage after the death of your spouse? Answer: Is a person eligible for remarriage after he/she is widowed? Not only does the Bible not speak against remarriage after a spouse dies, in some cases, it actually encourages it (1 Corinthians 7:8-9; 1 Timothy 5:14). The Apostle Paul allowed widows to remarry in 1 Corinthians 7:8-9 and encouraged younger widows to remarry in 1 Timothy 5:14. Remarriage after the death of a spouse is absolutely allowed by God. Recommended Resources: Finding Your Way After Your Spouse Dies by Marta Felber and Logos Bible Software.
Dating provides an opportunity for long-term intimacy and companionship, and guards against loneliness in the later years. Remarriage is less likely as a person ages, but some middle-aged and older people do remarry after divorce or the death of a spouse. 
If you are preparing for remarriage or helping couples prepare for remarriage, you need to know there are many unique circumstances and situations that make remarried hearts more vulnerable to confusion, hurt, anger and conflict than hearts looking forward to being joined in a first marriage. Closed for Business. When a marriage ends because of death or divorce, it leaves a void, an empty space in the heart, whether you experienced the loss or were the one who did the leaving. Regardless of how a marriage ends, it causes devastation, even when it is accompanied by a feeling of relief.
The death of a beloved spouse is one of the most heart-wrenching things a person can go through. And yet, it is possible to have a successful marriage again if you accept your grief, trust in your new feelings of love and resist comparing your new spouse to your old one. For most people who have lost a spouse, grief does fade with time, but it never entirely goes away. In fact, widows and widowers continue to think of and speak about their spouses even decades after their deaths, according to a 2006 study published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology.
According to the 2007 US Census, for those 25 and older, 52 percent of men and only 44 percent of women are likely to remarry after death or divorce. The New York Times analyzed the data and reported that for the first time in recorded history, more women are living without a husband than with one. 
Older adults, particularly women, are less likely than their younger counterparts to remarry following divorce and, to a lesser degree, the death of a spouse. Still, about 250,00 people over 50 remarry each year. The most-cited reason for remarriage in later life by both men and women is companionship (Bulcroft, Bulcroft, Hatch, & Borgatta, 1989; McKain, 1969). Women are also likely to remarry for economic security.
Men and women not only have different remarriage rates, but they also differ in their desire to repartner (to establish a new romantic relationship). A year and a half after the death of a spouse, 15% of widows and 37% of widowers ages 65 and older were interested in dating. As of the 2006 census, 32% of the U.S. population over age 65 was widowed. Most people successfully adjust after losing a partner; research on bereavement patterns finds the most frequent outcome is resilience. Even so, remarriage rates among older widowers are fairly low, and even lower among older widows.
The majority of people who have divorced (close to 80%) go on to marry again. On average, they remarry just under 4 years after divorcing; younger adults tend to remarry more quickly than older adults. For women, just over half remarry in less than 5 years, and by 10 years after a divorce 75% have remarried. As of the 2006 census, 32% of the U.S. population over age 65 was widowed. Most people successfully adjust after losing a partner; research on bereavement patterns finds the most frequent outcome is resilience. Even so, remarriage rates among older widowers are fairly low, and even lower among older widows.
Some individuals are more likely to remarry than others; the likelihood can differ based on previous relationship status (e.g. divorced vs. widowed), level of interest in establishing a new romantic relationship, gender, race, and age among other factors. As of the 2006 census, 32% of the U.S. population over age 65 was widowed. Most people successfully adjust after losing a partner; research on bereavement patterns finds the most frequent outcome is resilience. Even so, remarriage rates among older widowers are fairly low, and even lower among older widows.