Talk with your doctor about any concerns you may have. During the procedure. An upper endoscopy usually takes 20 to 30 minutes to complete. Before the procedure begins, you will take off your shirt and put on a hospital gown. If you wear dentures, you may be asked to remove them. After the procedure. You will stay at the facility where you had the upper endoscopy for up to two hours while the effects of the anesthesia and sedative wear off. You will need a ride home because these medications can temporarily impair your reaction speed and judgment.
The patient will be in the Operating Room for 20-45 minutes for an upper endoscopy, and 30-120 minutes for a colonoscopy. Many patients have both an upper endoscopy and colonoscopy under the same anesthesia, which takes 40-120 minutes. http://www.cincinnatichildrens.org/health/info/abdomen/procedure/gi-endoscopy.htm. I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal
An upper gastrointestinal (UGI) endoscopy is a procedure that allows your doctor to look at the inside lining of your esophagus, your stomach, and the first part of your small intestine (duodenum). A thin, flexible viewing tool called an endoscope (scope) is used. Why It Is Done. An upper gastrointestinal (UGI) endoscopy may be done to: 1  Find problems in the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  These problems can include: 3  Inflammation of the esophagus (esophagitis) or the stomach (gastritis). 4  Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) . 5  A narrowing (stricture) of the esophagus.
Your doctor will give you specific instructions to prepare for your endoscopy. In some cases your doctor may ask that you: 1  Fast before the endoscopy. 2  You will need to stop drinking and eating four to eight hours before your endoscopy to ensure your stomach is empty for the procedure. 3  Stop taking certain medications. 1 Fast before the endoscopy. 2  You will need to stop drinking and eating four to eight hours before your endoscopy to ensure your stomach is empty for the procedure. 3  Stop taking certain medications. 4  You will need to stop taking certain blood-thinning medications in the days before
Best Answer: I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. The only prep is 8 hr fasting before you have it done. Depending on how busy they are at the time will determine how long it takes for them to check you in. The procedure takes 15-20 minutes, but it also depends on if biopsies are done or not. Also depends on the hospital, but you can usually go home after about an hour. You can't have anything with seeds for about 2-3 weeks.
Depending on the exact nature of the procedure and its objectives, an endoscopy can take anywhere between 15 and 60 minutes to carry out. It will usually be performed on an outpatient basis, which means you will not have to stay in hospital overnight. 
A: I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. The only prep is 8 hr fasting before you have it done. Depending on how busy they are at the time will determine how long it takes for them to check you in. Many patients have both an upper endoscopy and colonoscopy under the same anesthesia, which takes 40-120 minutes. http://www.cincinnatichildrens.org/health/info/abdomen/procedure/gi-endoscopy.htm.
An upper endoscopy requires that you have an empty stomach before the procedure. Do not eat or drink anything for at least six hours before the procedure, or as directed by your doctor or nurse. Talk to your doctor about any changes that may be needed to your regular medication regimen. During endoscopy, certain procedures such as taking a small tissue sample (biopsy) for testing may be performed. Sometimes, the procedure is done in emergencies in the hospital or emergency room to both identify and treat upper digestive system bleeding such as from an ulcer.
During an endoscopy. During an upper endoscopy procedure, you'll be asked to lie down on a table on your back or on your side. As the procedure gets underway: 1  Monitors often will be attached to your body. 2  This will allow your health care team to monitor your breathing, blood pressure and heart rate. 3  You may receive a sedative medication. 1 You may receive a sedative medication. 2  This medication, given through a vein in your forearm, helps you relax during the endoscopy. 3  Your doctor may spray an anesthetic in your mouth. 4  This medication will numb your throat in preparation for insertion of the long, flexible tube (endoscope).
The upper endoscopy procedure takes only about 15-30 minutes. The colonoscopy procedure takes about 30-45 minutes on average.Because time before your endoscopy and a period of recovery, you and your escort should expect to spend 90-120 minutes at our facility. 