The medication aide's role is providing routine daily medications, either prescription or non-prescription, to patients whose condition and drug regimen are stable. The aide has a list of patients and medications each day, and must administer medications in the indicated dosage at the correct time. Not all states permit the use of medication aides, and those that do vary widely in their training requirements. They can range from as little as four hours' training to as much as 100 hours. Some states administer their own licensing exams.
Strictly speaking, a Certified Medication Aide (CMA) is someone who has passed the Medication Aide Certification Examination (MACE) and provides assistance to patients who are disabled or otherwise unable to entirely provide for their own health either in a hospital, home, or long-term care facility. As the baby boom generation ages, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities will be tested in their ability to provide care. Many use a limited number of registered nurses to supervise vocational nurses and nurses’ aides, enabling lower-cost staff to provide routine care.
A medication aide, also referred to as a medical technician, distributes patient medications in nursing homes, schools, correctional facilities or non-hospital assisted-living facilities. These 10 animal facts will amaze you. A medication aide, also referred to as a medical technician, distributes patient medications in nursing homes, schools, correctional facilities or non-hospital assisted-living facilities. Medication aides usually are directly supervised by doctors or other licensed caretakers.
A certified medication aide (CMA) is responsible for administering medication to patients in a medical setting. They work closely with health professionals and patients to administer and document medication intake, writing reports and documenting customer interactions. They typical job setting for a certified medication aide is indoors, generally in a hospital or assisted living center. Working hours vary and aren't necessarily typical daytime hours; patients need care around the clock, so there are generally three shifts available: a day shift, a night shift, and an overnight shift.
Certified Medication Aide job description. As the baby boom generation ages, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities will be tested in their ability to provide care. Many use a limited number of registered nurses to supervise vocational nurses and nurses’ aides, enabling lower-cost staff to provide routine care.
Job Duties. As the job title suggests, a certified medication aide’s main job duties include distributing medication to patients under the supervision of a licensed registered nurse. Even mild drugs like aspirin can have devastating effects when given to the wrong patients, which requires someone with the know-how to safely administer medication. Many nursing homes and assisted living facilities employ certified medication aides to distribute medicines to patients and residents.
Responsibilities. Certified medication aides dispense oral, inhalation and topical medications to patients. They observe patients for drug reactions and report any problems to the nurses. Medication aides monitor the patient’s vital signs, calculate medication dosages and stock the medication cart. The Job Description of a Certified Medication Aide. Certified medication aides administer daily pharmaceutics to patients under the supervision of a registered... 1  Medical Tech Job Description.
Medication Aide resume samples. Medication Aides, also known as Medical Technicians, distribute medication to patients. Duties shown on sample resumes of Medication Aides include administering prescribed medications according to schedule, and reading MARs to verify patient information.
The Job Description of a Certified Medication Aide. Medication aides work in long-term care facilities, hospitals and medical centers. While it may seem like a simple task, dispensing medication to patients requires special training. Even mild drugs like aspirin can have devastating effects when given to the wrong patients, which requires someone with the know-how to safely administer medication. Many nursing homes and assisted living facilities employ certified medication aides to distribute medicines to patients and residents.