The Ritz-Carlton® hotels. Please note: You can use upgrade rewards when you are redeeming points for a hotel stay; you will need an upgrade reward for each night in an upgraded room, in addition to your regular hotel reward.
If the hotel in question has a loyalty program you will have a much better chance of being upgraded to a better room, should one be available. At the end of the day every traveller is looking to score an upgrade or certainly willing to take one on offer.
Traveling on a budget doesn’t have to mean staying in the standard hotel room. Upgrades aren’t just given to VIPs anymore. If you know what questions to ask and when to jump on an upgrade opportunity, you’ll likely find yourself staying in the lap of luxury at rock bottom prices.
Step 1. Consider the timing of your stay. You are less likely to get a room upgrade during a hotel's busy season or when a large event is occurring in town. It's more likely you will be upgraded when a hotel has unsold rooms and you are staying for more than one night.
3. Tardiness may pay: Looking for a free hotel upgrade is one of the few instances in which the early bird will (probably) not get the worm. The later in the afternoon or evening, the better sense the front desk will have about the occupancy for that night or the next few days.
After a long day of travel woes, nothing calms and excites the soul like a free upgrade. And whether on a flight or at your hotel, there are smart ways to secure a free upgrade beyond the typical it's my anniversary ploy.
There are ways to get upgrades and preferential treatment at a hotel just for being you. Join the hotel's rewards program and get credit for each of your stays; this is an easy way to earn upgrades, discounts and even free nights.
Step 4. Be specific when you ask for an upgrade. It helps if you have done your homework and can ask for exactly what you want, whether it is an upgrade to a suite, a room with a view or balcony, or a room near the pool. Step 5. Join the hotel's rewards program, or present your current membership card.