Antibodies are things that the body makes to try to fight infections, such as HIV. Antibody tests look for antibodies to HIV, rather than the HIV itself. Antibodies to HIV often can be found between two weeks and three months after infection. Depending on the test and the place where you are tested, results come back within a few minutes to a few weeks. Ask your doctor or testing center how long you must wait. To get tested: 1  Ask your doctor to do the test. 2  Also, if you go to a doctor for an illness, injury, or pregnancy, he or she may offer you an HIV test. 3  Ask your doctor where to find a local HIV testing site. 4  Visit the National HIV and STD Resources website to find a local
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. HIV is a virus spread through body fluids that affects specific cells of the immune system, called CD4 cells, or T cells. Over time, HIV can destroy so many of these cells that the body can’t fight off infections and disease. When this happens, HIV infection leads to AIDS. 
Testing is often done at 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months after exposure to find out if a person is infected with HIV. 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6. WebMD Medical Reference from Healthwise. Last Updated: September 09, 2014. This information is not intended to replace the advice of a doctor. 1 If antibodies to HIV are present (positive), the test is usually repeated to confirm the diagnosis. 2  If ELISA is negative, other tests are not usually needed. 3  This test has a low chance of having a false result after the first few weeks that a person is infected. 4  Western blot.
If you test negative on an antibody test taken 3 months or longer after your last possible risk of possible exposure to HIV, you can feel safe in assuming that you do not have the virus. If for some reason you feel anxiety about relying on the 3-month result, you could opt to have another test taken again at 6 months. We have a more in depth article about HIV test window periods. A test taken at least 12 weeks (3 months) after exposure to the virus provides highly accurate results.
The window period is the time from infection until a test can detect any change. The average window period with HIV-1 antibody tests is 25 days for subtype B. Antigen testing cuts the window period to approximately 16 days and NAT (Nucleic Acid Testing) further reduces this period to 12 days. During the window period, an infected person can transmit HIV to others although their HIV infection may not be detectable with an antibody test. Antiretroviral therapy during the window period can delay the formation of antibodies and extend the window period beyond 12 months.
The time it takes for a person who has been infected with HIV to show a positive test result (also known as seroconverting) is commonly called the window period. There are different types of HIV Tests, and each type has a different window period. We have a more in depth article about HIV test window periods. A test taken at least 12 weeks (3 months) after exposure to the virus provides highly accurate results. In rare cases, a person could take up to six months to test positive using standard tests, and that is almost always a person with a severely compromised immune system due to another disease, such as leukemia
A few people will have a longer window period, so if you get a negative antibody test result in the first 3 months after possible exposure, you should get a repeat test after 3 months. Ninety-seven percent of people will develop antibodies in the first 3 months after they are infected. For antibody tests, if you get a negative result within 3 months of your most recent possible exposure, you need to get tested again at the 3-month mark. For RNA tests or antibody/antigen tests, that timeframe may be shorter.
The time period from infection with HIV until the body produces enough HIV antibodies to be detected by an HIV antibody test is called the window period. Most people develop HIV antibodies within 3 months after they are infected with HIV. But the window period can vary depending on the HIV test used. In general, anyone who has a negative result on an HIV antibody test within 3 months of a possible exposure to HIV should have the test repeated in 3 months. The HIV antigen/antibody test can detect both HIV antigen (a part of the virus) and HIV antibodies in blood
These antigen/antibody combination tests can find HIV as soon as 3 weeks after exposure to the virus, but they are only available for testing blood, not oral fluid. The rapid test is an immunoassay used for screening, and it produces quick results, in 30 minutes or less. For antibody tests, if you get a negative result within 3 months of your most recent possible exposure, you need to get tested again at the 3-month mark. For RNA tests or antibody/antigen tests, that timeframe may be shorter.
Deciding when to get tested therefore depends on when you may have been exposed and which test is used. You can ask your health care provider about the window period for the HIV test you are taking. If you are using a home test, you can get that information from the materials included in the packaging of the test. For antibody tests, if you get a negative result within 3 months of your most recent possible exposure, you need to get tested again at the 3-month mark. For RNA tests or antibody/antigen tests, that timeframe may be shorter.