Our Lake. Here you'll find the incredible story of Donald Campbell's famous 1964 world water speed record on Lake Dumbleyung, Western Australia. We celebrated this remarkable feat on 31st December 2014 with the unveiling of a Bluebird replica. One Year, Two World Records. On December 31st 1964, after breaking the world land speed record in Lake Eyre, South Australia and with only hours to spare, Campbell broke the world water speed record on Lake Dumbleyung in his jet propelled hydroplane boat, Bluebird.
His Dream. Here you'll find the incredible story of Donald Campbell's famous 1964 world water speed record on Lake Dumbleyung, Western Australia. We celebrated this remarkable feat on 31st December 2014 with the unveiling of a Bluebird replica. One Year, Two World Records. On December 31st 1964, after breaking the world land speed record in Lake Eyre, South Australia and with only hours to spare, Campbell broke the world water speed record on Lake Dumbleyung in his jet propelled hydroplane boat, Bluebird.
Small wheatbelt town with famous lake nearby. Dumbleyung is a small wheatbelt town located 275 km south east of Perth. No one knows exactly how the town got its name but it is likely that it is a corruption of the local Aboriginal word 'dambeling' which probably meant 'large stretch of water'. Most of the lake is part of a water bird conservation area. In March 1985 a total of 24 839 birds were counted on the lake. The town of Dumbleyung seems to run a rather poor second to the lake but it is not without its charm.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dumbleyung is a town and shire in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia, 267 kilometres (166 mi) south-east of Perth between Wagin and Lake Grace on State Route 107. The first three families to settle in the area were the Cronin, Kersley and Bartram families. George Kersley, Sr. and his future son-in-law Henry Bartram were from pioneer families of the Beverley district and they used to take their sheep flocks from Beverley to Lake Dumbleyung for grazing.
Grande Olde' Dumbleyung Tavern is situated 265km south east of Perth. Dumbleyung is a great small town with a big heart and a big lake. Trading since Dec 21st 1911 this grand old lady offers genuine country service. A well stocked front bar and outdoor area is a great place to chat and enjoy a cold drink. 
In August 2008 Robert McIntyre wrote to the Dumbleyung Shire Council with a proposal for an annual award in the form of a student scholarship donated every year by Robert and Daphne McIntyre. This year the scholarship is $2,500. 1 The Robert and Daphne Citizenship Award is open to any student from years 10 to 12. 2  The applicants Primary place of residence is in the Shire of Dumbleyung or parents/guardians are ratepayers in the Shire of Dumbleyung. 3  Applications may be either typed or hand written.
Welcome to the Shire of Dumbleyung. The Dumbleyung Shire is located 267km south east of Perth in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia. Dumbleyung is known for its grain and livestock production and various biodiversity industries including: cereals, summer crops, oil Mallees, yabbies, emus, poultry and trout. Lake Dumbleyung. The first recorded sighting of the lake was in 1843 by explorers, Landor and Lefroy. It is the largest open lake in Western Australia’s southwest at 13km in length and 6.5km wide, covering an area of 5200 hectares.
The town of Dumbleyung is the administrative centre of the Shire of Dumbleyung, which covers an area of 1,150 square miles. It is situated 167 miles south-east of Perth and 25 miles east of Wagin. Lake Dumbleyung. The first recorded sighting of the lake was in 1843 by explorers, Landor and Lefroy. It is the largest open lake in Western Australia’s southwest at 13km in length and 6.5km wide, covering an area of 5200 hectares.
One Man. Here you'll find the incredible story of Donald Campbell's famous 1964 world water speed record on Lake Dumbleyung, Western Australia. We celebrated this remarkable feat on 31st December 2014 with the unveiling of a Bluebird replica. One Year, Two World Records. On December 31st 1964, after breaking the world land speed record in Lake Eyre, South Australia and with only hours to spare, Campbell broke the world water speed record on Lake Dumbleyung in his jet propelled hydroplane boat, Bluebird.