Neurofibromatosis type 1 is a condition characterized by changes in skin coloring (pigmentation) and the growth of tumors along nerves in the skin, brain, and other parts of the body. The signs and symptoms of this condition vary widely among affected people. Most adults with neurofibromatosis type 1 develop neurofibromas, which are noncancerous (benign) tumors that are usually located on or just under the skin. These tumors may also occur in nerves near the spinal cord or along nerves elsewhere in the body.
Overview. Neurofibromatosis (NF) is a genetic condition that causes tumors to develop in the nervous system. There are three types of neurofibromatosis that are each associated with unique signs and symptoms: All three types of NF are inherited in an autosomal dominant manner. There is no cure for neurofibromatosis. 
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a hereditary condition most commonly associated with bilateral vestibular schwannomas, also known as acoustic neuromas. These are benign (noncancerous) tumors that occur on the nerves for balance leading to the inner ear. 
Neurofibromatosis (NF) refers to several genetically inherited conditions that are clinically and genetically different and carry a high possibility of tumor formation. This disorder is divided into Neurofibromatosis type 1, Neurofibromatosis type 2 and Schwannomatosis. 
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and type 2 (NF2) are neurocutaneous disorders inherited as autosomal dominant genetic syndromes. Autosomal dominant genetic transmission indicates that one copy of the altered gene is required for phenotypic expression. Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2), also called bilateral acoustic neurofibromatosis or central neurofibromatosis, is an autosomal dominant genetic syndrome caused by a mutation in, or a deletion of, the NF2 gene.
Neurofibromatosis Type 2. Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a hereditary condition that makes a person susceptible to developing tumors called schwannomas (benign tumors that form on the connective tissue surrounding nerves). 
About 50% of people with NF also have learning disabilities. Neurofibromatosis 2 (NF2): also known as Bilateral Acoustic NF (BAN), is much rarer occurring in 1:25,000 births. NF2 is characterized by multiple tumors on the cranial and spinal nerves, and by other lesions of the brain and spinal cord. Tumors affecting both of the auditory nerves are the hallmark. Neurofibromatosis encompasses a set of distinct genetic disorders that causes tumors to grow along various types of nerves. NF can also affect the development of non-nervous tissues such as bones and skin.
The most common form, called neurofibromatosis type 1 or NF-1, mainly affects nerves in the skin, producing soft nodules or bumps. Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF-2) is a very rare disorder that affects the auditory nerves responsible for hearing and balance. 
Neurofibromatosis type 1. Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), also known as peripheral neurofibromatosis or von Recklinghausen disease, is an autosomal dominant genetic condition caused by a mutation in or a deletion of the NF1 gene. Only one copy of a mutated or deleted NF1 gene is required to affect an individual. Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2), also called bilateral acoustic neurofibromatosis or central neurofibromatosis, is an autosomal dominant genetic syndrome caused by a mutation in, or a deletion of, the NF2 gene.