There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. a. skeletal muscle: multinucleated, striated; attached to bones producing locomotion, general support and posture; producing heat. Contraction is voluntary, and not long-sustained. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel.
1 Smooth muscle, neither striated in structure nor under voluntary control, is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body.
Tweet. : This page is part of the section about the structure and function of different Tissue Types, which is related to the section about Histology and Cells (incl. structure of animal cells, cell division, mitosis, meiosis). To read about other tissue types see the list of on the left. There are 3 types of muscle tissue: 1  Skeletal muscle tissue, 2  Cardiac muscle tissue, and. 3  Smooth muscle tissue.
Muscle tissue is categorized into three distinct types: skeletal, cardiac, and smooth. Each type of muscle tissue in the human body has a unique structure and a specific role. Skeletal muscle moves bones and other structures. Cardiac muscle contracts the heart to pump blood. The smooth muscle tissue that forms organs like the stomach and bladder changes shape to facilitate bodily functions. Here are more details about the structure and function of each type of muscle tissue in the human body. 1. The Human Body Has Over 600 Skeletal Muscles That Move Bones and Other Structures Skeletal muscles attach to and move bones by contracting and relaxing in response to voluntary messages from the nervous system
The structure of these muscle tissues can be described from the level of detail of the muscle fibres (muscle cells) through all the other muscle structures and parts of structures that bind muscle cells together enabling them to perform their functions. To read about other tissue types see the list of on the left. There are 3 types of muscle tissue: 1  Skeletal muscle tissue, 2  Cardiac muscle tissue, and. 3  Smooth muscle tissue.
The functions of muscle tissues depend on the type of muscle tissues and their locations in the body. Here is an overview of the 3 types of muscle tissues : : Skeletal muscle is called striated because of its appearance consisting of light and dark bands visible using a light microscope. To read about other tissue types see the list of on the left. There are 3 types of muscle tissue: 1  Skeletal muscle tissue, 2  Cardiac muscle tissue, and. 3  Smooth muscle tissue.
Muscle tissue is made of excitable cells that are capable of contraction. Of all of the different tissue types (muscle, epithelial, connective, and nervous), muscle tissue is the most abundant in most animals. 
The muscular system allows us to move. Adults have a certain fixed number of muscle cells, approximately 602. . Through exercise, such as weight lifting, the cells enlarge but the number of cells does not increase. Structure and Function. There are three types of muscle tissue— smooth, skeletal, and cardiac. Each has its own distinctive function, and therefore, its own distinctive structure, but all muscles allow movement of some kind. Skeletal Muscle. Skeletal muscle is called voluntary because you can control this type of muscle
MUSCLES AND MUSCLE TISSUE. Muscle is composed of fibers, nerves and connective tissues and account for over 40% of the body weight. The fibers contract to produce tension on the associated tissues or tendons. Muscle tissue is enclosed in facia, which in turn is attached to other structures including ligament. There are three types of muscle tissues: skeletal, cardiac and smooth muscles. Muscle tissue provides a) posture and body support b) locomotion and c) heat production. I. FUNCTION AND TYPES OF MUSCLE. Locomotion: One of the most obvious functions of muscle tissue is locomotion. When muscles contract, the fibers pull or relax bones to which they are attached, thus causing locomotion. Muscle contraction is also the primary means of moving lymph in the lymphatic vessel.
Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated