Not to be confused with Embolism. A thrombus, or colloquially a blood clot, is the final product of the blood coagulation step in hemostasis. There are two components to a thrombus: aggregated platelets that form a platelet plug, and a mesh of cross-linked fibrin protein. 
Blood Clots. Blood clotting, or coagulation, is an important process that prevents excessive bleeding when a blood vessel is injured. Platelets (a type of blood cell) and proteins in your plasma (the liquid part of blood) work together to stop the bleeding by forming a clot over the injury. An abnormal clot that forms in a vein may restrict the return of blood to the heart and can result in pain and swelling as the blood gathers behind the clot. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a type of clot that forms in a major vein of the leg or, less commonly, in the arms, pelvis, or other large veins in the body.
Deep vein thrombosis (throm-BO-sis), or DVT, is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body. Blood clots occur when blood thickens and clumps together. Most deep vein blood clots occur in the lower leg or thigh. They also can occur in other parts of the body. A blood clot in a deep vein can break off and travel through the bloodstream. The loose clot is called an embolus (EM-bo-lus). It can travel to an artery in the lungs and block blood flow. This condition is called pulmonary embolism (PULL-mun-ary EM-bo-lizm), or PE. PE is a very serious condition
Blood clot facts. 1  A blood clot is a mass formed by platelets and fibrin in the blood to stop bleeding. 2  There are a variety of risk factors and illness that can lead to blood clot formation. 3  Causes of blood clots may include: 4  certain heart conditions, 5  pregnancy, 6  prolonged immobility, 7  smoking, 8  certain medications, 9  surgery, and. 1 A blood clot is a mass formed by platelets and fibrin in the blood to stop bleeding. 2  There are a variety of risk factors and illness that can lead to blood clot formation. 3  Causes of blood clots may include: 4  certain heart conditions, 5  pregnancy, 6  prolonged immobility,
A blood clot that forms in an artery or an arterial thrombus is a very dangerous clot that can obstruct the flow of blood to major organs and cause complications such as stroke, transient ischemic attack (TIA or mini-stroke), heart attack, or peripheral arterial disease. Blood clotting or coagulation is a normal but complex bodily process that is designed to prevent bleeding in response to an injury or cut. However, sometimes blood clots form in critical locations such as the heart, lung or brain and can cause serious complications if they are not treated in time.
However, a blood clot that forms inside a blood vessel (artery or vein) or in the heart is called a thrombus and is a serious medical condition. Blood clots can form in the superficial veins just below your skin, or they can form in the deeper, large veins (deep vein thrombosis). A blood clot that travels to the brain can cause a stroke. A blood clot that forms within the arteries of the heart can cause a heart attack. Your risk of developing blood clots can be minimized by making certain lifestyle changes and following your doctor’s treatment plan.
A blood clot, also known as a thrombus, is the result of several blood cells lumping together with fibrin. Blood clots, which form when blood cells stick together, can obstruct blood flow leading to a serious medical emergency. Going on long airplane flights may lead to blood clots. Blood clots are not a normal condition, but they occur when blood coagulates or hardens. They typically form after the body is injured to prevent excessive bleeding. Also called a thrombus, it is made when blood cells lump together with fibrin, a stretchy, thread-like protein.