The greatest tidal range in the world occurs in Canada’s Bay of Fundy, where the difference between low and high tides can be as much as 21 meters (nearly 70 feet)! The greatest tidal range, the highest high tides and lowest low tides all occur when the sun and moon are lined up. As you will see below, these so-called spring tides occur in a regular pattern. Some animals (e.g., horseshoe crabs, sea turtles) lay eggs onshore on the date of the highest high tide in a season. The smallest tidal range, lowest high tides and highest low tides also occur in a regular pattern. These are called neap tides. 1. Look at the data for high and low tide levels on the table on the ne xt page.
Tidal range is the difference between the high tide and the low tide. The tidal range is the vertical difference between the high tide and the succeeding low tide. Tides are the rise and fall of sea levels caused by the combined effects of the gravitational forces exerted by the Moon and the Sun and the rotation of the Earth. Neap tides occur during the first and last quarters of the moon's phases. The largest annual tidal range can be expected around the time of the equinox, if coincidental with a spring tide. Tidal data for coastal areas is published by the national hydrographic service of the country concerned.
In Maine (U.S.) low tide occurs roughly at moonrise and high tide with a high moon, corresponding to the simple gravity model of two tidal bulges; at most places however, moon and tides have a phase shift. 
This type of tide is known as a spring tide. During neap tides, when the Moon and Sun's gravitational force vectors act in quadrature (making a right angle to the Earth 's orbit), the difference between high and low tides is smaller. Neap tides occur during the first and last quarters of the moon's phases. The largest annual tidal range can be expected around the time of the equinox, if coincidental with a spring tide. Tidal data for coastal areas is published by the national hydrographic service of the country concerned.
The difference between high tide and low tide is called the tidal range. The biggest tidal range is found in the Bay of Fundy, Canada where sea level rises and falls as much as 16 m (53 feet) in just over 6 hours. The smallest tidal ranges are less than 1 m (3 feet). The highest tides, called spring tides, are formed when the earth, sun and moon are lined up in a row
In fact, the height of the average solar tide is about 50% the average lunar tide. Thus, at new moon or full moon, the tide’s range is at its maximum. This is the spring tide: the highest (and lowest) tide. Spring tides are not named for the season. This is spring in the sense of jump, burst forth, rise. So spring tides bring the most extreme high and low tides every month, and they happen around full and new moon.
The greatest tidal range in the world is located at the Bay of  Fundy in Canada. The highest and lowest in the bay has a difference  of 16. 3 meters, that is taller than a t … hree story building. 
When the moon is full or new, the gravitational pull of the moon and sun are combined. At these times, the high tides are very high and the low tides are very low. This is known as a spring high tide. Spring tides are especially strong tides (they do not have anything to do with the season Spring). They occur when the Earth, the Sun, and the Moon are in a line. The gravitational forces of the Moon and the Sun both contribute to the tides. Spring tides occur during the full moon and the new moon.
The most extreme tidal range occurs around the time of the full or new moons, when the gravitational forces of both the Sun and Moon are in phase, reinforcing each other in the same direction (new moon), or are exactly the opposite phase (full). Neap tides occur during the first and last quarters of the moon's phases. The largest annual tidal range can be expected around the time of the equinox, if coincidental with a spring tide. Tidal data for coastal areas is published by the national hydrographic service of the country concerned.
There are approximately two high tides and two low tides every 24-hour period in the Bay of Fundy. The time between a high tide and a low tide is, on average, six hours and 13 minutes. As such, visitors to the Fundy coast can realistically expect to see at least one high and one low tide during daylight hours. This is the tidal effect the Bay of Fundy is renowned for and entitles it as the place with the highest tides in the world. The vertical effect can be seen at most wharves around the bay. First visit at high tide to see all the boats float level with the top of the docks.