fluke. an organism of the class trematoda, characterized by a body that is usually flat and often leaflike; flukes can infect the blood, liver, intestines, and lungs. Called also trematode. Flukes are not common in the United States but are a serious problem in many Asian, tropical, and subtropical countries. Another liver fluke, Fasciola hepatica, is occasionally found in humans; it causes obstruction of the bile ducts and enlargement of the liver. Blood flukes such as Schistosoma penetrate the skin, make their way to the blood and travel to various parts of the body (see also schistosomiasis).
This result means that the doctor may know that the person is infected by flukes but cannot tell from the blood test alone which specific type of fluke is causing the disease. In addition, blood tests for fluke infections cannot distinguish between past and current infections. Fascioliasis is caused by Fasciola hepatica, the sheep liver fluke. The fluke has a three-part life cycle that begins when eggs from a host's feces are deposited in water. The eggs release free-swimming larvae (miracidia) that infect snails.
n. 1. (Animals) any parasitic flatworm, such as the blood fluke and liver fluke, of the classes Monogenea and Digenea (formerly united in a single class Trematoda). 2. (Zoology) another name for flounder 2 1. [Old English flōc; related to Old Norse flōki flounder, Old Saxon flaka sole, Old High German flah smooth]. (fluk).
fluke 1. n. 1. Any of numerous parasitic flatworms, including the trematodes, some of which infect humans, and the monogeneans, which are chiefly ectoparasites of fish. 2. Any of various flatfishes chiefly of the genus Paralichthys, especially the summer flounder. 1. (Animals) any parasitic flatworm, such as the blood fluke and liver fluke, of the classes Monogenea and Digenea (formerly united in a single class Trematoda). 2. (Zoology) another name for flounder 2 1. [Old English flōc; related to Old Norse flōki flounder, Old Saxon flaka sole, Old High German flah smooth]. (fluk).
1 Gill flukes are “egg layers”. 2  Depending on the temperature of the water the eggs can hatch from 4 to 30 days. 3  No treatment will terminate gill flukes in the “egg stage”. 4  For this reason treatments must be done over a period of time and that time depends on the temperature of the water. 1 Dactylogyrus (Dacs): are called gill flukes, however, gill flukes are also found on the body. 2  Gill flukes are “egg layers”. 3  Depending on the temperature of the water the eggs can hatch from 4 to 30 days. 4
After a period of 10-15 weeks in the liver, the adult flukes move to the bile ducts and produce eggs. Acute fascioliasis is marked by abdominal pain with headache, loss of appetite, anemia, and vomiting. Some patients develop hives, muscle pains, or a yellow-color to the skin and whites of the eyes (jaundice). Fascioliasis is caused by Fasciola hepatica, the sheep liver fluke. The fluke has a three-part life cycle that begins when eggs from a host's feces are deposited in water. The eggs release free-swimming larvae (miracidia) that infect snails.
Definition. Fluke infections are diseases of the digestive tract and other organ systems caused by several different species of parasitic flatworms (Trematodes) that have complex life cycles involving hosts other than human beings. Fascioliasis is caused by Fasciola hepatica, the sheep liver fluke. The fluke has a three-part life cycle that begins when eggs from a host's feces are deposited in water. The eggs release free-swimming larvae (miracidia) that infect snails.
Flukes (Gyrodactylus). Gyrodactylus is a broad group of parasites commonly called Flukes. These are in fact skin or gill flukes, which attach themselves to the skin or gills of the fish, and can cause a great deal of damage. This very broad group of parasites is widely distributed and attacks many species of tropical fish kept in aquaria
First of all you cannot see gill flukes or body flukes with the naked eye, they are microscopic. The life span of a gill fluke or body fluke in warm water is 14 to 30 days, however, in cold water, eggs and adults can survive up to seven months. 1 Dactylogyrus (Dacs): are called gill flukes, however, gill flukes are also found on the body. 2  Gill flukes are “egg layers”. 3  Depending on the temperature of the water the eggs can hatch from 4 to 30 days. 4  No treatment will terminate gill flukes in the “egg stage”.
Flukes are among them. Flukes are the two lobes of the whale tail. While each whale has flukes, flukes themselves differ from species to species. In some whale species, flukes are so distinctive that researchers use them like fingerprints to identify individuals. A whale uses his flukes to propel himself forward in the water and the flippers at his sides to steer and brake. As he swims, he moves the fluke up and down like a paddle, pushing himself forward with each stroke. Whales also use their flukes to get food into their mouths.