A low hematocrit means the percentage of red blood cells is below the lower limits of normal (see above) for that person's age, sex, or specific condition (for example, pregnancy or high-altitude living). Another term for low hematocrit is anemia. Causes of low hematocrit, or anemia, include: 
Advertisement. Both hemoglobin and hematocrit are linked with red blood cells (RBCs). Hemoglobin (Hb) is the protein found in RBCs that carries oxygen to the entire body. On the other hand, hematocrit is the measurement of the amount of RBCs present in the total blood volume. The hematocrit is reported as a percentage of the volume of red blood cells in 100 ml of blood. The normal range in men is 40 to 54%, while for women the values range between 36 to 48%. Note that the values may vary from one medical authority to another.
The hematocrit is the proportion, by volume, of the blood that consists of red blood cells. The hematocrit (hct) is expressed as a percentage. For example, a hematocrit of 25% means that there are 25 milliliters of red blood cells in 100 milliliters of blood. Hematocrit (Hct) Levels. This is the ratio of the volume of red cells to the volume of whole blood. Normal range for hematocrit is different between the sexes and is approximately 45% to 52% for men and 37% to 48% for women. This is usually measured by spinning down a sample of blood in a test tube, which causes the red blood cells to pack at the bottom of the tube
Red blood cells (RBCs) typically make up roughly 37% to 49% of the volume of blood. Since a hematocrit is often performed as part of a complete blood count (CBC) , results from other components, such as RBC count, hemoglobin, reticulocyte count, and/or red blood cell indices, are taken into consideration. Age, sex, and race are other factors to be considered. A hematocrit may be used to: 1  Identify and evaluate the severity of anemia (low RBCs, low hemoglobin, low hematocrit) or polycythemia (high RBCs, high hemoglobin, high hematocrit). 2  Monitor the response to treatment of anemia or polycythemia and other disorders that affect RBC production or lifespan.
What it measures is the percentage volume of red blood cells in the blood. The count is generally 45% for men and 40% women. Hemoglobin count is actually a part of hematocrit. It is observed that hematocrit is independent of the body size in mammals. • Hemoglobin is a protein but hematocrit is not a protein; it is a measurement. • Hemoglobin is a part of hematocrit because hematocrit is a measure of total red blood cells where hemoglobin is only a component. • Hemoglobin count and hematocrit changes parallelly. (If one is low, the other too is low and vice versa.)
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example).