From the English word for the type of flower, also called self-heal, ultimately a derivative of the Latin word pruna plum.
meaning of prunella latin american name in latin american the name prunella means little plum other origins for the name prunella include latin american french the name prunella is most often used as a girl name or female name latin american name meaning little plum origin latin america name in latin american the name prunella means little plum other origins for the name prunella include latin american french the name prunella is most often used as a girl name or female name latin american name meaning little plumorigin latin america alternate origins french
Prunella /pru-nel-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Prunella is small plum.runella is an unusual given name for women. Prunella is also an unusual last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census).
Comments and insights on the name Prunella: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Prunella: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Prunella: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Prunella: | Edit. Prunella comes from Latin, and means little plum.amecandy-Celebrity baby names, ask the Name Lady, & more.
What does Prunella mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Prunella is of Latin origin. The meaning of Prunella is small plum. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is little plum.runella is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Pru-ne-lla. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boy
Prunella is an unusual given name for women. Prunella is also an unusual last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Prunella for girls.
namecandy-Celebrity baby names, ask the Name Lady, & more.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.runella is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Pru-ne-lla. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boy
Prunella is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Pru-ne-lla. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Prunella Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Prunella has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Prunella to other names. Prunella has the diminutive (nickname) Pru.