Most owls in Maryland are secretive and active at dusk and dawn or at night. Eighteen species of owls can be found in North America, eight of which occur in Maryland. Barred Owls, Barn Owls, Eastern Screech-Owls and Great-Horned Owls are commonly found throughout Maryland. Though their name implies that they make a screeching sound, their call is more comparable to the “whinny” of a horse. Eastern Screech-Owls hunt at night and eat small rodents, flying insects and small birds. Year-round residents of Maryland, they are fairly common in suburban areas. Click here to check out a Screech Owl Nest Box Plan. The Great-Horned Owl is found in many habitats but prefers dense woodlots bordering open fields
The Maryland/District of Columbia Records Committee maintains records for bird sightings in Maryland and produces the list used by most birders to objectively evaluate species recorded in the state. The committee votes on the validity of new records of bird species in the state. The committee last met in 2012. The vireos are a group of small-to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World. They are typically greenish in color and resemble the wood warblers, except for their heavier bills. In Maryland, seven species have been recorded.
Great Horned Owls are the largest tufted owl in Maryland. Owl, Long-eared (Asio otus) Long-eared Owls are brown-gray with tan or orange faces, square heads, and yellow eyes. They have black, brown, and tan marks on their feathers and two white lines between the eyes. Short-eared Owls can be seen in Maryland during their migration from Canada and the northern U.S. Owl, Snowy (Bubo scandiacus) Snowy Owls are white with dark markings on their bodies and wings. They have round heads without tufts and yellow eyes. They eat small rodents, especially lemmings, as well as birds.
In the U.S. state of Maryland, 445 species of bird have been recorded. This number includes the bird species that have been sighted in Maryland and are believed to be of wild origin. The vireos are a group of small-to medium-sized passerine birds restricted to the New World. They are typically greenish in color and resemble the wood warblers, except for their heavier bills. In Maryland, seven species
Description & Range: Great horned owls are the largest of our tufted owl species in Maryland. As their name states, these birds have two prominent ear tufts also known as ‘horns’ on the sides of their head. Great horned owls are relatively thick-bodied owls that have mottled gray-brown patterns on much of their body. Great horned owls can be found throughout Maryland. In addition, they are the most widely distributed true owl in the Americas. Great horned owls can be found year-round throughout much of North America and parts of South America. Several sub-species of great horned owls can be found within its range.
Photo by Sarah A. Hanks. Maryland is known for its State bird, the Baltimore Oriole, but due to ecology and climate, many other species also call Maryland home. With over 400 different species of birds found in Maryland, the State has become a bird watchers paradise. Local bird watching organizations now are common, and Maryland companies offer guided and self-guided tours. Short-eared Owls can be seen in Maryland during their migration from Canada and the northern U.S. Owl, Snowy (Bubo scandiacus) Snowy Owls are white with dark markings on their bodies and wings. They have round heads without tufts and yellow eyes. They eat small rodents, especially lemmings, as well as birds.
They make the familiar “hoo hoo” call associated with owls. Great-Horned Owls feed on waterfowl, rabbits, squirrels, marsh birds, rodents, reptiles, and amphibians. They nest in tree cavities, nest boxes, and cliff ledges, as well as the old nests of crows, squirrel, and hawks. Though their name implies that they make a screeching sound, their call is more comparable to the “whinny” of a horse. Eastern Screech-Owls hunt at night and eat small rodents, flying insects and small birds. Year-round residents of Maryland, they are fairly common in suburban areas. Click here to check out a Screech Owl Nest Box Plan. The Great-Horned Owl is found in many habitats but prefers dense woodlots bordering open field