Most of the bismuth produced in the USA is as a by-product from refining lead, tin, copper, silver and gold ores. Bismuth without refinement is not safe for use in cosmetics. To make it safe it must be refined and combined with other elements to produce bismuth oxychloride. The FDA has approved bismuth oxychloride as a safe product to use in products for the face, eyes, lips and nails. Not only is it very common, but it is a very popular ingredient in both traditional and mineral makeup. However, skin irritation from bismuth oxychloride is not unusual.
Though it is synthetically prepared, bismuth oxychloride is derived from natural elements. Everyone should be familiar with oxygen and chlorine, chlorine being approved for use up to certain concentration levels in numerous products, including cosmetics, so the element in question is bismuth. Bismuth is a natural metal, number 83 on the periodic table. It is actually the only non-toxic heavy metal, and thereby approved for use as a color additive in cosmetics by the U.S. FDA.
Bismuth oxychloride is an inorganic compound of bismuth with the formula BiOCl. It is a lustrous white solid used since antiquity, notably in ancient Egypt. 
Bismuth is pronounced as BIZ-meth. History and Uses: Bismuth, which has been known since ancient times, was often confused with lead and tin. Bismuth was first shown to be a distinct element in 1753 by Claude Geoffroy the Younger. Bismuth does occur free in nature and in such minerals as bismuthinite (Bi 2 S 3) and bismite (Bi 2 O 3). The largest deposits of bismuth are found in Bolivia, although bismuth is usually obtained as a by-product of mining and refining lead, copper, tin, silver and gold. Pure bismuth is a white, brittle metal with a slight pink color
Bismuth has long been considered as the element with the highest atomic mass that is stable. However, in 2003 it was discovered to be weakly radioactive: its only primordial isotope, bismuth-209, decays via alpha decay with a half life more than a billion times the estimated age of the universe. According to the United States Geological Survey, the world mining production of bismuth in 2010 was 8,900 tonnes, with the major contributions from China (6,500 tonnes), Peru (1,100 tonnes) and Mexico (850 tonnes).
Bismuth is a naturally occurring metal used to manufacture solder, fishing anchors, shotgun pellets, and more. Many cosmetics and pharmaceuticals also contain bismuth in various forms. Bismuth subsalicylate is an active ingredient in many popular, over-the-counter upset stomach remedies. Bismuth oxychloride is used in cosmetics. Bismuth subgallate is an active ingredient in products used to address flatulence odor. Although bismuth exposure is common, that does not mean it’s completely harmless.
Bismuth is a chemical element with symbol Bi and atomic number 83. Bismuth, a pentavalent post-transition metal, chemically resembles arsenic and antimony. Elemental bismuth may occur naturally, although its sulfide and oxide form important commercial ores. The free element is 86% as dense as lead. According to the United States Geological Survey, the world mining production of bismuth in 2010 was 8,900 tonnes, with the major contributions from China (6,500 tonnes), Peru (1,100 tonnes) and Mexico (850 tonnes).
Bismuth oxychloride is a synthetically-prepared powder created from bismuth, oxygen and chlorine that is used in cosmetics because of its abilities to create a white pigment, shimmery look, and silky feel in addition to its exceptional ability to adhere to the skin. Bismuth is a natural metal, number 83 on the periodic table. It is actually the only non-toxic heavy metal, and thereby approved for use as a color additive in cosmetics by the U.S. FDA.
Bismuth compounds account for about half the production of bismuth. They are used in cosmetics, pigments, and a few pharmaceuticals, notably Pepto-Bismol, used to treat diarrhea. Bismuth's unusual propensity to expand upon freezing is responsible for some of its uses, such as in casting of printing type. According to the United States Geological Survey, the world mining production of bismuth in 2010 was 8,900 tonnes, with the major contributions from China (6,500 tonnes), Peru (1,100 tonnes) and Mexico (850 tonnes).
Bismuth is a naturally occurring, brittle metal. Bismuth-containing compounds can be found in a number of applications: as a pigment (Bismuth Oxychloride) in cosmetics and personal care products, and in Over-The-Counter (OTC) medicines (bismuth subnitrate) such as some used to treat gastrointestinal problems.