Some schools have additional holidays-the data below should be used as a guide. Always check with your child's school before booking a holiday. Please note that INSET / Training Days are NOT included below, therefore term start and end dates can vary. Always check with your child's school before booking a holiday. 
In February 2010, public notice of the draft TOGS 1.4.2 Compliance and Enforcement of SPDES permits was published in the Environmental Notice Bulletin (ENB). During the public notice period, NYSDEC staff conducted three information sessions across the state to educate the public on the document and answer any questions. The primary goal of enforcement is for the violator to return to compliance and to deter the occurrence of violations. TOGS 1.4.2 outlines the response NYSDEC staff should follow once non-compliance in the form of water priority violations has been detected.
Subscribe (iCal) Show Term Dates Show Open Days Filter calendar by: Select date range: Reset Filters Print Calendar. 
The original TOGS, finalized in September 1988, pre-dates the current SPDES general permits for stormwater (discharges from construction activity, industrial activity and municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4) and concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs). The primary goal of enforcement is for the violator to return to compliance and to deter the occurrence of violations. TOGS 1.4.2 outlines the response NYSDEC staff should follow once non-compliance in the form of water priority violations has been detected.
Our facilities. The school opened in 1905 and is situated in 14 acres in Deakin Leas, Tonbridge. We are well resourced with modern facilities. The Hands Building was opened in 2009 and offers state-of-the-art classrooms, a drama and dance studio and a sports hall. Since introducing the IB Diploma Programme in 2004, TGS is very proud to be a recipient of the British Council Award for Internationalism every year. This is in recognition of the opportunities available for students to take part in initiatives which enable intercultural understanding and respect.
The lower of the two values is reported on Form I and flagged with a “P”. C This flag applies to pesticide results where the identification has been confirmed by GC/MS. B This flag is used when the analyte is found both in the associated blank and in the sample. Holding Time-the elapsed time, expressed in days, from the date of receipt of the sample by the laboratory until the date of its preparation (digestion, distillation or extraction) and/or analysis. Matrix-the predominant material, component, or substrate (e.g., sediment) of which the sample to be analyzed is composed.
Welcome to The Old Grammar School. Children transitioning from our Early Years building, move effortlessly into the more structured learning environment of the Pre-Prep.
Welcome to Tonbridge Grammar School. TGS is immensely proud to have been named as The Sunday Times State Secondary School of the Year 2014 and the Sunday Times International Baccalaureate School of the Year 2014. We are an International Baccalaureate (IB) World School. Since introducing the IB Diploma Programme in 2004, TGS is very proud to be a recipient of the British Council Award for Internationalism every year. This is in recognition of the opportunities available for students to take part in initiatives which enable intercultural understanding and respect.
We are a happy and successful village primary school, passionate about the well-being of our children and their learning. We live by our mission statement, 'A Christ-centred school, with a child-centred curriculum'. 