The effects of sonic booms on humans are reviewed. The most important effects are the development of startle responses, disturbance of ongoing activities, interference with sleep and annoyance. The information available on the occurrence of these effects is reviewed with special emphasis on dose-response relationships.
As you watch the animation, notice the clear formation of the Mach cone, the angle of which depends on the ratio of source speed to sound speed. It is this intense pressure front on the Mach cone that causes the shock wave known as a sonic boom as a supersonic aircraft passes overhead.
Aircraft noise and sonic booms have been implicated as a cause of lowered reproduction in a variety of animals. The majority of research on the reproductive effects of noise on animals has been conducted in the laboratory with domestic species, particularly poultry.
Since the boom is being generated continually as long as the aircraft is supersonic, it fills out a narrow path on the ground following the aircraft's flight path, a bit like an unrolling a red carpet, and hence known as the boom carpet. Its width depends on the altitude of the aircraft.
In the following sections, literature concerning animal hearing and the effects of aircraft noise and sonic booms on various groups of animals is presented. Some information concerning other types of noise is also included, to supplement the lack of knowledge on the effects of aircraft noise.
Literature on the effects of aircraft noise and sonic boom on animals indicates that effects are variable from species to species. Thus, further research is needed to fully quantify noise impact on individual domestic and wildlife species (Boutelier 1968; Bond 1971; Bender 1977).
The effects of noise and sonic booms on animals vary due to the animal's hearing ability, which varies considerably among animal species. Each species has adapted, physically and behaviorally, to fill an ecological role within a community; an animal's hearing ability often reflects this role.
A sonic boom is the sound associated with the shock waves created by an object traveling through the air faster than the speed of sound. Sonic booms generate enormous amounts of sound energy, sounding much like an explosion.
Sonic boom and sound barrier. For a plane in horizontal flight, the intersection of this cone with the ground is a parabola. When this line of shock wave passes by, listeners on the ground hear a very loud noise, called a sonic boom.