In reaction to an inquiry, officials in Pretoria replied that Johannesburg was named after Johann Friedrich Bernhard Rissik and Christiaan Johannes Joubert-the only document dealing directly with the origin of the city's name. Some controversy exists concerning the origin of the name Johannesburg, as several men bearing the name Johann(es) occupied positions of authority in the Zuid-Afrikaansche Republiek (ZAR or Transvaal Republic) or were involved in events leading to the founding of the town.
In ten years, the population was 100,000 inhabitants. While Johannesburg is not one of South Africa's three capital cities, it is the seat of the Constitutional Court, which has the final word on interpretation of South Africa's constitution as well as with issues in connection with constitutional matters. Johannesburg is located in the eastern plateau area of South Africa known as the Highveld, at an elevation of 1,753 metres (5,751 ft). The former CBD is located on the south side of the prominent ridge called the Witwatersrand (Afrikaans: White Water's Ridge) and the terrain falls to the north and south.
Map of Johannesburg, Gauteng. Johannesburg Map-Johannesburg map showing the suburbs and landmarks of Johannesburg, Gauteng. The largest city in South Africa, Johannesburg is also the wealthiest and, without doubt, the economic powerhouse of Africa. 
Johannesburg, South Africa. The largest city in South Africa, Johannesburg is a vibrant city with year round cultural events and breathtaking tourist attractions. In terms of population, Johannesburg or Jo'burg is the biggest city in South Africa. It serves as the provincial capital of the Gauteng Province. Johannesburg covers a total area of 635.1sqmiles. This huge city accommodates an estimated population of 3,888,180 (2007). Presently, Johannesburg houses the biggest economy of the metropolitan areas in the African continent. The Gauteng Province is the most thriving province in the country. The city is famous for its gold and diamond exports. The city is also home to a big and flourishing tourism industry.
Address: Soweto, Johannesburg, South Africa, ZA. A tour of Soweto, the city's most infamous township, is a chance to really experience the city and find out about the townships and the role they played in the historic freedom struggles. Nelson Mandela has a home here, as does Archibishop Tutu. 
See Johannesburg accommodation, in Gauteng. Johannesburg is a booming, happening city and the emphasis is on making money-whether in business or on the streets-and has been since its beginnings when the world s richest gold fields were discovered in Johannesburg during the 1880s. South of Johannesburg is Soweto, a city developed as a township for black people under the apartheid system. Most of the struggle against apartheid was fought in and from Soweto. The name Soweto is an acronym, made up-in apartheid days...
Johannesburg (/dʒoʊˈhaenɨsbɜrɡ/ ; [dʒoʊˈhænɨsbɜrɡ]) (joˈɦɐnəsboerχ joˈɦɐnəsbœrχ also Known, As'jozi, eGoli, burg Egoli, and joeys and ABBREVIATED) as jhb is the largest City In. South africa it is the provincial Capital, of gauteng which is the wealthiest Province In. south africa Johannesburg is located in the eastern plateau area of South Africa known as the Highveld, at an elevation of 1,753 metres (5,751 ft). The former CBD is located on the south side of the prominent ridge called the Witwatersrand (Afrikaans: White Water's Ridge) and the terrain falls to the north and south.
Johannesburg is an African city of note. Johannesburg is characterised by contradiction and an apparent seamless combination of irreconcilable differences. The largest city in South Africa, Johannesburg is also the wealthiest and, without doubt, the economic powerhouse of Africa. South of Johannesburg is Soweto, a city developed as a township for black people under the apartheid system. Most of the struggle against apartheid was fought in and from Soweto. The name Soweto is an acronym, made up-in apartheid days...
Johannesburg is the capital of Gauteng province (Pretoria, also in Gauteng, is the capital of the country). Also known as Joburg or Jozi, Johannesburg is the biggest city in South Africa, and is often compared to Los Angeles, with a similar urban sprawl linked by huge highway interchanges. 
[joˈɦɐnəsboerχ]) (joˈɦɐnəsbœrχ also known As, Jozi'jo, eGoli, egoli And, joeys and abbreviated AS) jhb is the largest city In South. Africa it is the provincial capital Of, gauteng which is the wealthiest province In South. africa Johannesburg is located in the eastern plateau area of South Africa known as the Highveld, at an elevation of 1,753 metres (5,751 ft). The former CBD is located on the south side of the prominent ridge called the Witwatersrand (Afrikaans: White Water's Ridge) and the terrain falls to the north and south.