According to USDA, ribs are done when they are 145°F internal temp, but they may still be tough. If you take them up to 180°F, drop the oven temp to about 180°F and hold them at this temp for about 30 minutes, the collagens and fats melt some more at this temp and make the meat more tender and juicy. On most cookers, when the oven temp is 225°F at sea level, it takes about three to four hours to cook a slab of baby backs and about five to six hours to cook a slab of St. Louis cut ribs or spares. They are slightly undercooked at that stage.
2. Season your meat before slow cooking beef ribs. You may rub the ribs with dry seasonings or marinade them in your favorite sauce. 1  Make a dry rub out of sugar, salt, spices and/or herbs. 2  Soak your ribs in a marinade. 3  When smoking meats, an acidic marinade will act as a tenderizer. Check the temperature with a thermometer. When slow cooking meat, it is imperative that you have a thermometer to monitor the temperature of the smoker. When the temperature reaches 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107.22 C), you may begin cooking your ribs.
How to Cook Beef Ribs in the Oven. Prepare the ribs as directed in your recipe. Preheat an oven to 350-degrees F. Place the ribs with bone side down on a wire rack in a roasting pan. If you’re doing several slabs, it’s OK to stack them on top of one another. Cover pan tightly with aluminum foil. Bake for 1 hour.
Sear the rib roast (prime rib) for 15 minutes at the higher oven temperature (450 degrees F.), then turn the oven to the lower temperature (325 degrees F.) for the rest of the cooking time. Every 1/2 hour, baste the cut ends of the roast with the fat accumulated in the roasting pan. Do Not Cover the roast. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the rib roast will continue to cook as it sets. The internal temperature will rise to 125 degrees F. to 130 degrees F. (medium rare) in approximately 15 to 20 minutes. If allowed to rest as long as an hour, the internal temperature will rise even higher.
3. Shorten smoking time by covering the ribs with aluminum foil after they have cooked for 2 hours. Smoked beef ribs may take 6 to 8 hours to prepare, and if you're in a hurry, wrapping the ribs will shorten the cooking time. Check the temperature with a thermometer. When slow cooking meat, it is imperative that you have a thermometer to monitor the temperature of the smoker. When the temperature reaches 225 degrees Fahrenheit (107.22 C), you may begin cooking your ribs.
up vote 3 down vote accepted. You can do a low temperature cook on your ribs the same way you would do your pork shoulders. It's just the cooking times are shorter, that's all. Set your oven to 250-275F, and roast those ribs until they're done. I've had beef ribs done in as few as 3-4 hours, but as many as 5. Optionally, you can foil your ribs about halfway into your cook, with some liquid in the foil pack. Just be aware that they'll cook faster if they're foiled. All, I would like to cook spare ribs to a fall-off-the-bone consistency. I don't have access to a grill. I know how to do that with pork shoulders (dry rubbed, then uncovered in the oven at low heat for 6-8hrs), but spare ribs are a different type of animal.
Beef ribs will take about 6 hours to cook properly at a temperature between 225 and 250 degrees F. The best way to tell when your ribs are close to done is by the tenderness of the meat. Properly cooked the meat will be fork tender. 
If cooking several racks of ribs, use a rib rack and place the meat side of the ribs facing the fire. Add the smoking chips and cover the grill. On average, beef ribs will need about 3 to 5 hours of cooking time, depending on the thickness of the meat and other factors such as weather conditions. Your main goal at this point is to watch and adjust the temperature. The heat will have a tendency to climb up to the 300-degree F range rather quickly. Preheat an oven to 350-degrees F. Place the ribs with bone side down on a wire rack in a roasting pan. If you’re doing several slabs, it’s OK to stack them on top of one another. Cover pan tightly with aluminum foil. Bake for 1 hour.
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. 
Cooking the Ribs. Lower the temperature of the oven to approximately 400 degrees Fahrenheit and place the pan with the beef ribs in it. Ensure that the lid is properly placed. Cook at this temperature for about 45 minutes. Then slow cook the beef ribs in the oven for three hours by lowering the temperature further to about 200 degrees Fahrenheit. Slow cooking the meat enables the maximum amount of fat to melt away