Zircon is an important gemstone of many colors, and is an historical gemstone used for thousands of years. It is sometimes looked upon as a cheap Diamond simulant, but in actuality it can be a valuable gem. Its color diversity is caused by traces of certain impurities, some of which are radioactive. 
Zirconium is a chemical element with symbol Zr and atomic number 40. The name of zirconium is taken from the name of the mineral zircon, the most important source of zirconium. The word zircon comes from the Persian word zargun زرگون, meaning gold-colored. It is a lustrous, grey-white, strong transition metal that resembles hafnium and, to a lesser extent, titanium
Zircon is the primary source of all hafnium. Zirconium and hafnium are contained in zircon at a ratio of about 50 to 1. Zircon is a coproduct or byproduct of the mining and processing of heavy-mineral sands for the titanium minerals, ilmenite and rutile, or tin minerals. Zircon is also marketed as a natural gemstone, and its oxide is processed to produce the diamond simulant, cubic zirconia. Zirconium is used in nuclear fuel cladding, chemical piping in corrosive environments, heat exchangers, and various specialty alloys.
The Mineral zircon. Zircon is a well-known mineral that makes an important gemstone of of many colors. Its brilliant luster and fire, combined with good hardness, make it a desirable gem. Natural Zircon with good color and transparency is uncommon; most Zircon crystals are opaque and brownish. However, most Zircon gemstones, especially the blue and white forms, are enhanced by heat treatment. Zircon often contains traces of radioactive element s in its structure, which causes it to be metamict.
Zircon is ubiquitous in the crust of Earth. It occurs as a common accessory mineral in igneous rocks (as primary crystallization products), in metamorphic rocks and as detrital grains in sedimentary rocks. Large zircon crystals are rare. Zircon is a common accessory to trace mineral constituent of most granite and felsic igneous rocks. Due to its hardness, durability and chemical inertness, zircon persists in sedimentary deposits and is a common constituent of most sands.
The principal commercial source of zirconium is the silicate mineral, zircon (ZrSiO 4), which is found primarily in Australia, Brazil, India, Russia, South Africa and the United States, as well as in smaller deposits around the world. The name of zirconium is taken from the name of the mineral zircon, the most important source of zirconium. The word zircon comes from the Persian word zargun زرگون, meaning gold-colored.
Zircon (/ˈzɜrkɒn/ or /ˈzɜrkən/ ; including hyacinth or yellow zircon) is a mineral belonging to the group of nesosilicates. Its chemical name is zirconium silicate and its corresponding chemical formula is Zr SiO4. A common empirical formula showing some of the range of substitution in zircon is (Zr 1–y, REE y)(SiO 4) 1–x (OH) 4x–y. Zircon forms in silicate melts with large proportions of high field strength incompatible elements. Zircon is a common accessory to trace mineral constituent of most granite and felsic igneous rocks. Due to its hardness, durability and chemical inertness, zircon persists in sedimentary deposits and is a common constituent of most sands.
Zirconium is a metal recovered from zircon. Zircon is used in mineral form in refractory products, where it is valued for its high melting temperature of 2,550°C. Some zircon is processed by chemical leaching to yield elemental zirconium. 
Word origin: The word zirconium derives from the Persian zargun, meaning gold-like. Zircon, the primary gemstone mineral of zirconium, is also known as jargon, hyacinth, jacinth and ligure. Zircon, and its variations, is mentioned in the Bible. Sources of zirconium. Zirconium is produced from the mineral zircon (ZrSiO 4). Lunar rocks appear to have a surprisingly high zircon content compared to terrestrial rocks, according to analysis of lunar rock samples from the various Apollo missions.
Advertising Information. Zircon is a well-known mineral that makes an important gemstone of of many colors. Its brilliant luster and fire, combined with good hardness, make it a desirable gem. Natural Zircon with good color and transparency is uncommon; most Zircon crystals are opaque and brownish. However, most Zircon gemstones, especially the blue and white forms, are enhanced by heat treatment. Zircon often contains traces of radioactive element s in its structure, which causes it to be metamict.