Standard Color Chips are 1/4 in diameter, We also have all colors available in Microchips which are 1/16 in size. (Microchips are sold in an easy sprinkle can and offer a more elegant look). Note: if you do not specify size, the standard/default is 1/4.
Color chips are produced from pigments, resin, filler, and additives, are through-colored, random in shape, and available in a wide array of colors and sizes to provide unique texture and color to coated surfaces. They are sold in 1 pound bags.
Poker Chip Colors. When you're playing poker online, it's all numbers, and you don't have to worry about what color chips are worth what amounts. You don't even have to worry about having enough chips, or where to get the chips.
Definition of COLOR CHIP. : a small usually paper sample representing a color. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
The Original Chips are colored chips/flakes designed for use in a variety of decorative applications, including seamless, resinous flooring systems and multi-colored wall systems.
So all you have to do is look at the color of the sign. The colors of the chips used in the majority of casinos are the same. The denominations of the colors are: White or Blue chips are one dollar. Red chips are five dollars and are called nickels. Green chips are twenty-five dollars and are called quarters.
Pantone also has a Plastics palette, which consists of 735 transparent and 1,005 opaque plastic color chips. The plastics palette is used primarily by industrial designers and manfacturers worldwide to specify colors for molded and fabricated plastics.
Pantone is a standardized color matching system, utilizing the Pantone numbering system for identifying colors. By standardizing the colors, different manufacturers in different locations can all reference a Pantone numbered color, making sure colors match without direct contact with one another.