Long Island is about 130 kilometers long and 6 km wide at its widest point. The land area is 596 km². Long Island is situated about 265 km southeast of the Bahamian capital of Nassau, which is located on the island of New Providence. The Tropic of Cancer runs through the northern quarter of the island. Long Island is an island in the Bahamas that is split by the Tropic of Cancer. Its capital is Clarence Town. Long Island is one of the Districts of the Bahamas and is known as the most scenic island in the Bahamas. The population is roughly 3,000 inhabitants
Nassau Geographical Location. Nassau is the largest city, capital and commercial center of The Bahamas. According to 2010 census, Nassau was home to nearly 250,000 residents, which is 70% of The Bahamas total population. JavaScript must be enabled in order for you to use Google Maps. 
Just 30 minutes from Miami, The Bahamas Medical Center, in Nassau Bahamas offers North American quality healthcare at savings of 30% to 50% or more over US prices. Located near Nassau’s most popular resorts and the stunning white sands beaches that have made these islands famous, the Bahamas Medical Center is a world-class medical facility, designed to serve the needs of our international patients.
Nassau is the largest city and capital of the Bahamas located on the island of New Providence. The Bahamas have a population of 370,000 people (in 2015). Spoken languages are English (official), and Creole. The Bahamas are located in the northwestern West Indies in the Atlantic Ocean, south-east of Florida (USA) and to the north of Cuba, the island of Hispaniola (Dominican Republic and Haiti) and the Caribbean Sea.
Located on Little Exuma, just outside of Williams Town, Tropic of Cancer Beach, or its official name, Pelican Beach, has been called one of the prettiest in the Exuma chain. Snorkeling right off the beautiful beach is fantastic and always an adventure. 
Clarence Town, located in the south-central portion of the island, has a population of approximately 350 people. Nearby Deadman's Cay is the major settlement at the center of the island and is home to Deadman's Cay Airport, which offers several flights each week to Nassau and is the island's largest and busiest airport. Long Island is an island in the Bahamas that is split by the Tropic of Cancer. Its capital is Clarence Town. Long Island is one of the Districts of the Bahamas and is known as the most scenic island in the Bahamas. The population is roughly 3,000 inhabitants
Description. Sushi Rokkan Restaurant is located in the new Old Fort Town Center Nassau, Bahamas. Open for lunch and dinner 7 days per week. Sushi Rokkan: Open for lunch Mon.- Sat. 12noon-2:30pm, and dinner Mon.-Sat. 5:30-10:30pm. Closed on Sundays. Delivery Service Available for Lyford Cay, Old Fort Bay and Cable Beach area. 