Prepare the necessary funds. Deposit enough money into your account to cover the amount of the cashier's check. If you are purchasing the check from a bank where you don't have an account, bring the amount in cash. You will have to pay a small fee to pay for the service the bank provides. 1 If you are not a customer of the bank where you purchase the check, you may have to pay a higher fee (typically some percentage of the check amount). 2  Banks are not required to issue these checks to the general public. 3  Some upper-level bank accounts may qualify for free cashier's check service.
Obtaining a Cashier's Check. Go to your bank and request a cashier's check in the amount needed. The bank employee will check to make sure the amount needed for the cashier's check is in your account. If you go to a financial institution where you do not have an account, a bank employee will contact your bank to ensure that your account has enough funds to cover the withdrawal. A banker will write the cashier's check, made out to the payee, and sign her name to the bottom. The signature makes it legal tender and a guaranteed check. In most cases, you will be charged a fee for a cashier's check.
2. Ensure that your account can cover the amount of the cashier's check. Even though, as noted above, cashier's checks are drawn against the bank's funds, the bank isn't performing an act of charity. You'll need to transfer the amount requested for the cashier's check from your account to the bank's account. 1 Be sure to spell the payee's name correctly on the check. 2  You might not even need to use a cashier's check. 3  Talk to the seller about the possibility of accepting a debit or credit card for payment. 4  Alternatively, you might be able to use a bank draft.
Ask about the fee associated with a cashier's check. Contact your bank and request information about the fee you'll pay for a cashier's check. You'll need to ensure that your account can cover the fee plus the amount of the check unless you're opting to pay the fee out of pocket. 4. Bring your identification to the bank. 1 Be sure to spell the payee's name correctly on the check. 2  You might not even need to use a cashier's check. 3  Talk to the seller about the possibility of accepting a debit or credit card for payment. 4  Alternatively, you might be able to use a bank draft.
1. Get a receipt for your cashier's check. Make sure to get a receipt in case you lose or damage the check; unlike a personal check, you can't simply tear it up and write a new one. The receipt will have the check number and date, allowing you to contact the bank in case you should lose the check for any reason. 1 If you are not a customer of the bank where you purchase the check, you may have to pay a higher fee (typically some percentage of the check amount). 2  Banks are not required to issue these checks to the general public. 3  Some upper-level bank accounts may qualify for free cashier's check service.
(December 2011). A cashier's check or cheque is a check guaranteed by a bank, drawn on the bank's own funds and signed by a cashier. Cashier's checks are treated as guaranteed funds because the bank, rather than the purchaser, is responsible for paying the amount. They are commonly required for real estate and brokerage transactions. Cashier's checks deposited into a bank account are usually cleared the next day. It is the customer's right to request next-day availability when depositing a cashier's check in person.
You must have a payee. A cashier's check has the payee information completed on the check itself. Unlike a money order, on a cashier's check you can't write in the payee information yourself. It may be useful to take the payee to the bank with you, so that you have all the information you need. 1 If you are not a customer of the bank where you purchase the check, you may have to pay a higher fee (typically some percentage of the check amount). 2  Banks are not required to issue these checks to the general public. 3  Some upper-level bank accounts may qualify for free cashier's check service.
A cashier's check is a check that offers significantly more security to the payee because it's drawn against the bank's funds and not against an individual account holder's funds. However, when it comes time to obtain a cashier's check, you won't be the one who fills it out. 1 Be sure to spell the payee's name correctly on the check. 2  You might not even need to use a cashier's check. 3  Talk to the seller about the possibility of accepting a debit or credit card for payment. 4  Alternatively, you might be able to use a bank draft.
A cashier's check is a check that is a drawn on a bank's funds rather than your own personal funds. It offers a secure way to pay in situations where a personal check is not appropriate, such as real estate transactions. What makes a cashier's check different from a personal check is the guarantee. 1 If you are not a customer of the bank where you purchase the check, you may have to pay a higher fee (typically some percentage of the check amount). 2  Banks are not required to issue these checks to the general public. 3  Some upper-level bank accounts may qualify for free cashier's check service.