The sclera is an outer fibrous layer that encases and protects the eyeball. The cornea controls and focuses the entry of light into the eye, protects against germs and other … matter from entering the eye as well. 4 people found this useful. Answered. The Sclera is the posterior opaque white/off-white surface of the eye; this dense fibrous tissue envelops the entire posterior surface of the eye, excluding the continuous ant … eriorly of the cornea, iris, and pupil which is at its center.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The sclera is an outer fibrous layer that encases and protects the eyeball. The cornea controls and focuses the entry of light into the eye, protects against germs and other matter from entering the eye as well. It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eyesocket, tears, and the sclera, or white part of the eye 2. The cornea acts as the eye's outermost lens.
Because the cornea is as smooth and clear as glass but is strong and durable, it helps the eye in two ways: It helps to shield the rest of the eye from germs, dust, and other harmful matter. The cornea shares this protective task with the eyelids, the eye socket, tears, and the sclera, or white part of the eye. The cornea acts as the eye's outermost lens. It functions like a window that controls and focuses the entry of light into the eye. The cornea contributes between 65-75 percent of the eye's total focusing power. When light strikes the cornea, it bends -- or refracts -- the incoming light onto the lens.
Sclera. The sclera is the part of the eye commonly known as the “white.” It forms the supporting wall of the eyeball, and is continuous with the clear cornea. The sclera is covered by the conjunctiva, a clear mucus membrane that helps lubricate the eye. It is thickest in the area surrounding the optic nerve. 
The sclera (from the Greek skleros, meaning hard), also known as the white of the eye, is the opaque, fibrous, protective, outer layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fiber. The sclera forms the posterior five-sixths of the connective tissue coat of the globe. It is continuous with the dura mater and the cornea, and maintains the shape of the globe, offering resistance to internal and external forces, and provides an attachment for the extraocular muscle insertions.
The sclera is a dense, fibrous collagenous structure that comprises the posterior five-sixths of the eyeball. Its outmost region has a rich blood supply and is covered by the conjunctiva. 
Hyperaemia of the superficial blood vessels of the conjunctiva. The conjunctiva lines the inside of the eyelids and covers the sclera (white part of the eye). It is composed of non-keratinized, stratified columnar epithelium with goblet cells, and also stratified columnar epithelium. 
Function. The conjunctiva is a thin, semi-transparent membrane that covers the exposed white part of the eyeball (sclera) and lines the inner surface of the eyelids. Conjunctiva
The outside covering of the eye is a protective envelope of leathery connective tissue known as the sclera. This is the white coating on the outside of the eyeball, commonly known as the white of the eye. It completely envelops the globe except at the front of the eye and maintains the shape of the globe. The Sclera is the posterior opaque white/off-white surface of the eye; this dense fibrous tissue envelops the entire posterior surface of the eye, excluding the continuous ant … eriorly of the cornea, iris, and pupil which is at its center.
The sclera is the opaque white fibrous tissue of the eyeball itself. This fibrous tissue extends across the front of the eye, except where the cornea and iris are located in t … he center front of the eye, and it extends around to back of the eye where it meets the blood vessels and optic nerve. The Sclera is the posterior opaque white/off-white surface of the eye; this dense fibrous tissue envelops the entire posterior surface of the eye, excluding the continuous ant … eriorly of the cornea, iris, and pupil which is at its center.