Mao Zedong was the foremost Chinese Communist leader of the 20th century and theprincipal founder of the People's Republic of China.Mao was born December 26, 1893, into a peasant family in the village of Shaoshan, Hunanprovince. His father was a strict disciplinarian and Mao frequently rebelled against hisauthority. Mao Zedong 3 Zunyi Conference, as the meeting became known, was a crucial turning point in Mao'sascendancy to CCP leadership.From his base in Yan'an, Mao led Communist resistance against the Japanese, who hadinvaded Manchuria in 1931 and China in 1937.
The People's Republic of China which was established in 1949 under the leadership of Mao Zedong, is today a rapidly developing nation of a billion people; on present trends it is poised to emerge as the largest economy in the world in about two decades (by the year 2015), overtaking both Japan and the USA. 
In 1972, Mao welcomed US president Richard Nixon in Beijing, signalling a policy of opening China, which was furthered under Deng Xiaoping 's rule in China. A controversial figure, Mao is regarded as one of the most important individuals in modern world history. In late autumn 1958, Mao Zedong strongly condemned widespread practices of the Great Leap Forward (GLF) such as subjecting peasants to exhausting labour without adequate food and rest, which had resulted in epidemics, starvation and deaths.
Mao Zedong, 1957 © Mao was a Chinese communist leader and founder of the People's Republic of China. He was responsible for the disastrous policies of the 'Great Leap Forward' and the 'Cultural Revolution'. Mao was born on 26 December 1893 into a peasant family in Shaoshan, in Hunan province, central China. After training as a teacher, he travelled to Beijing where he worked in the University Library.
After Mao Zedong won the Chinese civil war in 1949, his goal became the unification of the five nationalities under the big family, the People's Republic of China, and under a single political system, the Communist Party of China. In late autumn 1958, Mao Zedong strongly condemned widespread practices of the Great Leap Forward (GLF) such as subjecting peasants to exhausting labour without adequate food and rest, which had resulted in epidemics, starvation and deaths.
Introduction. Mao Zedong led communist forces in China through a long revolution beginning in 1927 and ruled the nation’s communist government from its establishment in 1949. Along with Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin, Mao is considered one of the most significant communist figures of the Cold War. 
The Early Years. Mao Zedong (1893-1976) was both a product and a part of the revolutionary change in 20th-century China. He was born December 26, 1893, in the small village of Shaoshan in Hunan province. Leader of the Chinese Revolution. Mao Zedong was one of the historic figures of the twentieth century. A founder of the CCP (Communist Party), he played a major role in the establishment of the Red Army and the development of a defensible base area in Jiangxi province during the late 1920s and early 1930s.
Introduction. In 1966, China’s Communist leader Mao Zedong launched what became known as the Cultural Revolution in order to reassert his authority over the Chinese government. In the 1960s, Chinese Communist Party leader Mao Zedong came to feel that the current party leadership in China, as in the Soviet Union, was moving too far in a revisionist direction, with an emphasis on expertise rather than on ideological purity.
Mao Zedong 1 (1893-1976) Mao Zedong led China's Communist revolution in the 1920s and 1930s and became chairman(chief of state) of the People's Republic of China in 1949, an office he held until 1959. From Mao Zedong.. Microsoft Encarta Encyclopedia 2001. Mao Zedong 3 Zunyi Conference, as the meeting became known, was a crucial turning point in Mao'sascendancy to CCP leadership.From his base in Yan'an, Mao led Communist resistance against the Japanese, who hadinvaded Manchuria in 1931 and China in 1937.