The California Gold Rush (1848–1855) was a period in American History which began on January 24, 1848, when gold was found by James W. Marshall at Sutter's Mill in Coloma, California. When the Gold Rush began, the California goldfields were peculiarly lawless places. When gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill, California was still technically part of Mexico, under American military occupation as the result of the Mexican–American War.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the gold rush is important because when they found out that the gold is wroth so much money they sold it the same way with phoconhants and the bristh wanted the gold why well it is writh a lot of money and till this day. The first finding of gold was at the tailrace of a sawmill being  built by James Wilson Marshall in Coloma, California. The mill  property was owned by Johan (John) Sutter. … The area that was  impacted by the gold rush was northern California from Sacramento  north to San Francisco.
1 California was admitted as the 31st state of the United States in 1850 during the gold rush. 2  Sometimes groups of miners used rockers or cradles to mine. 3  They could mine a lot more gravel and dirt this way than with just a pan. Gold Is Found in California. Gold was first discovered in California by James Marshall at Sutter's Mill near the city of Coloma. James was building a sawmill for John Sutter when he found shiny flakes of gold in the river. He told John Sutter about the discovery and they tried to keep it secret.
The Gold Rush undoubtedly sped up California’s admission to the Union as the 31st state. In late 1849, California applied to enter the Union with a constitution preventing slavery, provoking a crisis in Congress between proponents of slavery and abolitionists. Though gold mining continued throughout the 1850s, it had reached its peak by 1852, when some $81 million was pulled from the ground. After that year, the total take declined gradually, leveling off to around $45 million per year by 1857.
The California gold rush of 1849 brought large numbers of American citizens and new immigrants from Europe to California. The presence of gold -- the worldwide standard curren … cy in that time -- made California tremendously valuable to the United States. The first finding of gold was at the tailrace of a sawmill being  built by James Wilson Marshall in Coloma, California. The mill  property was owned by Johan (John) Sutter. … The area that was  impacted by the gold rush was northern California from Sacramento  north to San Francisco.
The California Gold Rush was a particularly violent period for the new settlers of the Wild West. After the initial boom had ended, explicitly anti-foreign and racist attacks, laws and confiscatory taxes sought to drive out foreigners, especially Chinese and Latin American immigrants. When the Gold Rush began, the California goldfields were peculiarly lawless places. When gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill, California was still technically part of Mexico, under American military occupation as the result of the Mexican–American War.
The California Gold Rush began at Sutter's Mill, near Coloma. On January 24, 1848, James W. Marshall, a foreman working for Sacramento pioneer John Sutter, found shiny metal in the tailrace of a lumber mill Marshall was building for Sutter on the American River. When the Gold Rush began, the California goldfields were peculiarly lawless places. When gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill, California was still technically part of Mexico, under American military occupation as the result of the Mexican–American War.
The effects of the Gold Rush were substantial. At first, loose gold and gold nuggets could be picked up off the ground, and since there was no law regarding property rights in the goldfields a system of staking claims was developed. When the Gold Rush began, the California goldfields were peculiarly lawless places. When gold was discovered at Sutter's Mill, California was still technically part of Mexico, under American military occupation as the result of the Mexican–American War.
Miners extracted more than 750,000 pounds of gold during the California Gold Rush. Just days after Marshall’s discovery at Sutter’s Mill, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was signed, ending the Mexican-American War and leaving California in the hands of the United States. Though gold mining continued throughout the 1850s, it had reached its peak by 1852, when some $81 million was pulled from the ground. After that year, the total take declined gradually, leveling off to around $45 million per year by 1857.
the gold rush is important because when they found out that the gold is wroth so much money they sold it the same way with phoconhants and the bristh wanted the gold why … well it is writh a lot of money and till this day. 8 people found this useful. Answered. The year span of the California Gold Rush was 1848-1855. The United States president from 1848-1849 was James K. Polk. From 1849-1850 was Zachary Taylor. The president from 18 … 50-1853 was Millard Fillmore.