AP is not. What’s more, IB can be the curricula for a handful of classes (like AP) or it can be an intensive school-wide program (unlike AP). The AP comparison only fits in a high school with an IB diploma program where students are allowed to take one or more IB classes in their strongest subjects. Created in Switzerland in 1968 for students in international schools, IB is now offered in 3,460 schools across 143 countries — with 1,370 public and private schools (and counting) in the U.S. IB has gained popularity for setting high standards and emphasizing creative and critical thinking.
The International Baccalaureate, or IB, is a challenging and well-rounded programme of education for 16-19-year-old students. It’s an internationally recognised course, followed by students around the world. The IB has a reputation for being demanding but very rewarding. It offers a broader programme of study than A levels, and encourages students to think independently, and to explore their creativity. The IB will aim to teach your child to: 1  explore what it is to learn. 2  ask challenging and thoughtful questions.
The International Baccalaureate (IB), formerly known as The International Baccalaureate Organization (IBO) , is an international educational foundation headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, founded in 1968. IB offers four educational programmes for children aged 3–19. The IB Middle Years Programme (MYP) adheres to the study of eight subject areas and was developed and piloted in the mid-1990s. Within five years 51 countries had MYP schools.
Founded in 1968, the International Baccalaureate® (IB) is a non-profit educational foundation offering four highly respected programmes of international education that develop the intellectual, personal, emotional and social skills needed to live, learn and work in a rapidly globalizing world. The International Baccalaureate® (IB) works with schools and educators around the world, with representatives in our three Global Centres, The Hague, Bethesda and Singapore; our Foundation Office in Geneva; the Assessment Centre in Cardiff; and our office in Buenos Aires.
The International Baccalaureate Program is a non-profit foundation whose mission is to help students “develop the intellectual, personal, emotional, and social skills to live, learn and work in a rapidly globalizing world.” It was founded in 1968, and runs in over 3000 schools in 141 countries. 
The International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (IBDP) is a two-year educational programme primarily aimed at students aged 16–19. The program is one that provides an internationally accepted qualification for entry into higher education, and is accepted by many universities worldwide. Administered by the International Baccalaureate (IB), the IBDP is taught in schools in over 140 countries worldwide, in one of the three official languages of the IB-English, French or Spanish.
The newest offering from the IB, the IB Career-related Programme (formerly IB Career-related Certificate) is designed for students of ages 16 to 19 who want to engage in career-related learning. The IB introduced its newly reviewed MYP for first teaching in September 2014. The IB Middle Years Programme (MYP) adheres to the study of eight subject areas and was developed and piloted in the mid-1990s. Within five years 51 countries had MYP schools.
The IB by country. The International Baccalaureate® (IB) has a presence in countries throughout the world. There are IB World Schools across the globe, and universities worldwide recognize the strength of our Diploma Programme. The International Baccalaureate® (IB) works with schools and educators around the world, with representatives in our three Global Centres, The Hague, Bethesda and Singapore; our Foundation Office in Geneva; the Assessment Centre in Cardiff; and our office in Buenos Aires.
In-depth discussion controlled largely by students is what International Baccalaureate (IB) is all about. Created in Switzerland in 1968 for students in international schools, IB is now offered in 3,460 schools across 143 countries — with 1,370 public and private schools (and counting) in the U.S. IB has gained popularity for setting high standards and emphasizing creative and critical thinking.
The IB is a high school program that doubles as a highly respected college prep curriculum. The IB program encourages students to think broadly, beyond the boundaries of their communities, and to see themselves as members of a global society. It has gained recognition and respect from most U.S. colleges. The International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme is an intense curriculum for high school juniors and seniors that emphasizes intercultural understanding and enrichment. It culminates in six rigorous subject exams.