1 Abraxane, or the medications that you take with Abraxane may cause you to feel dizzy or drowsy. 2  Do not operate any heavy machinery until you know how you respond to Abraxane. 3  If you notice any redness or pain at the injection site, place a warm compress, and notify your healthcare provider. Important things to remember about the side effects of Abraxane: 1  You will not get all of the side effects mentioned below. 2  Side effects are often predictable in terms of their onset, duration, and severity. 3  Side effects are almost always reversible and will go away after therapy is complete.
I have been abraxane for 6 months and yesterday I loss my vision twice for 5 minutes and I normally wear reading glasses from Walgreens.........When I started, I was at 125 and now at 175. Reply Report post. It got to the point that I was having a hard time doing my work. Also the Xeloda wasn't doing much for the cancer. My onc took me off let my body rest for a few months and now I'm on Faslodex and Zometa. Most of vision came back, in fact my distance vision got better.
The most common side effects of ABRAXANE include: 1  hair loss. 2  numbness, tingling, pain, or weakness in the hands or feet. 3  abnormal heart beat. 4  tiredness. 5  joint and muscle pain. 
i have just completed my eighth round of Abraxane and in the past few weeks i have seen a steady decline in vision. i cannot read my computer screen. i have difficulty reading magazines even with my reading glasses. i am curious if others have experienced syptoms of declining vision as I have. It got to the point that I was having a hard time doing my work. Also the Xeloda wasn't doing much for the cancer. My onc took me off let my body rest for a few months and now I'm on Faslodex and Zometa. Most of vision came back, in fact my distance vision got better.
Abraxane ® is a chemotherapy drug | used to treat breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body | . It may also be used to treat other types of cancer as part of a research trial. This information should ideally be read with our general information about chemotherapy | and your type of cancer | . Possible side effects of abraxane Back to top. We explain the most common side effects of abraxane here. But we don’t include all the rare ones that are unlikely to affect you. You may get some of the side effects we mention but you are very unlikely to get all of them.
Your doctor can prescribe eye drops to help with this. If your eyes get red and inflamed (conjunctivitis), tell your doctor. This is because you may need antibiotic eye drops. Abraxane may also cause blurry vision. Always tell your doctor or nurse if you have eye pain or notice any change in your vision. Possible side effects of abraxane Back to top. We explain the most common side effects of abraxane here. But we don’t include all the rare ones that are unlikely to affect you. You may get some of the side effects we mention but you are very unlikely to get all of them.
Common side effects of Abraxane include nausea, vomiting, indigestion, diarrhea, mouth sores, headache, muscle or joint pain, numbness/tingling/burning of the hands/feet, weakness, dizziness, infections, anemia, or hair loss. The most common serious adverse reactions of ABRAXANE (with a ≥ 1% higher incidence) are pyrexia (6%), dehydration (5%), pneumonia (4%) and vomiting (4%). The most common adverse reactions resulting in permanent discontinuation of ABRAXANE are peripheral neuropathy (8%), fatigue (4%) and thrombocytopenia (2%).
Usually, hair loss begins to be noticeable within three to four weeks after starting Abraxane. When hair loss does occur, the hair may become thinner or fall out entirely. Hair loss can occur on all parts of the body, including the head, face, arms and legs, underarms, and pubic area. After you stop chemotherapy, your hair will most likely return to normal within two or three months.
Vision loss may be complete (involving both eyes) or partial, involving only one eye or even certain parts of the visual field. Vision loss is different from blindness that was present at birth, and this article is concerned with causes of vision loss in an individual who previously had normal vision. Vision loss can also be considered as loss of sight that cannot be corrected to a normal level with eyeglasses. The causes of loss of vision are extremely varied and range from conditions affecting the eyes to conditions affecting the visual processing centers in the brain. Impaired vision becomes more common with age. Common causes of vision loss in the elderly include diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, and cataracts