Add strength training to your exercise regimen. Building muscle helps raise your resting metabolism. A pound of muscle burns six calories per day while a pound of fat burns only two calories per day. This may not seem like much, but the amount of calories that your body burns while resting will add up over time.
This allows the body to go into fat-burning mode. Get enough aerobic exercise. As much as you can is really a help for your metabolism, and if you do it in the morning, you'll raise your metabolism all day. Build muscle with weight training or resistance exercise.
Snack Smart. Eating more often can help you lose weight. When you eat large meals with many hours in between, your metabolism slows down between meals. Having a small meal or snack every 3 to 4 hours keeps your metabolism cranking, so you burn more calories over the course of a day.
The faster your metabolism runs, the more calories you burn. The more you burn, the easier it is to drop pounds. And get this — you can make your metabolism work harder, a lot harder, 24 hours a day.
Dr. Oz rolls out his 7-Day Plan to Boost Your Metabolism, plus 3 metabolism boosters for under $20 that will help you shed that middle-age spread. Click here for a Metabolism Calculator that will determine the number of calories your body burns when at rest, but awake, over the course of one day.
Metabolism is the rate at which your body process the food that you put into it. If you're trying to lose weight, increasing your metabolic rate may help you to lose more weight without cutting more calories.
The number of calories your body uses to carry out these basic functions is known as your basal metabolic rate — what you might call metabolism. Several factors determine your individual basal metabolic rate, including: 1  Your body size and composition.
Muscle burns more calories than fat, and the more muscle you have, the more calories you burn, even at rest! Water, water, water!! You've heard it before, but drink those 8 8-ounce glasses of water every day. The energy burning process of metabolism needs water to work effectively.