The criminal offenses involving motor vehicles can be minor crimes (i.e. traffic violations) or serious offenses, depending on the nature of the act. Motor vehicle offenses include vehicular manslaughter, hit and run, carjacking, and more. In general, if federal law enforcement makes the arrest, the criminal offense is a violation of federal law. If state or local law enforcement makes the arrest, criminal charges are filed for breaking state law.
Misdemeanors. Misdemeanors are criminal offenses that carry up to a year in jail in most states. Punishment for misdemeanors can also include payment of a fine, probation, community service, and restitution. Felonies. Felonies are the most serious type of criminal offense. Felonies often involve serious physical harm (or threat of harm) to victims, but they also include offenses like white collar crimes and fraud schemes. Offenses that otherwise are misdemeanors can be elevated to felonies for second-time offenders.
Traffic Felonies. Felonies are typically the most serious crimes in any system of criminal law, and felony traffic offenses are no exception. A standard definition of a felony is any crime punishable by more than one year in prison or by death. 
In the United States there are three basic classifications of criminal offenses-felonies, misdemeanors and infractions. They are distinguished from each other by the seriousness of the offense and the amount of punishment for which someone convicted of the crime can receive. Criminal offenses are further classified as property crimes or personal crimes. Elected officials on the federal, state and local level pass laws that establish which behavior constitutes a crime and what the punishment will be for someone who is found guilty of those crime
Minor Offense Law & Legal Definition. Offense means violation of law or criminal offense. Generally offenses are classified based on their severity and seriousness of punishments. Minor offense refers to offenses that are less serious. It can include misdemeanor cases, Class D felonies, and infraction cases, which are of a less serious nature. For example, an offence can be said to be a minor offense if the punishment for it is just fine or warning or imprisonment less than three months. Example of a State Statute (Indiana) on minor offenses.
Laws regarding criminal offenses are passed on both the state and federal (national) level. The laws applicable to criminal offenses depend on the specifics of the crime. In general, if federal law enforcement makes the arrest, the criminal offense is a violation of federal law. If state or local law enforcement makes the arrest, criminal charges are filed for breaking state law.
Actually it is considered a minor criminal offense that is usually punishable for up to 90 days in jail. An example of a misdemeanor criminal offense is a DUI. A DUI is driving under the influence, or driving drunk. If this is a first time offense, then it would be a misdemeanor criminal offense. A criminal misdemeanor is a minor crime that is generally punished less severely than a felony, or greater crime. There is no consistent definition of a misdemeanor, as different societies place may place different weight on certain crimes.
a type of violation of the law. A minor offense is a socially harmful act not provided for by criminal law or without all the characteristics indicated in criminal law. Unlike a crime, a minor offense usually does not have the element of social danger, that is, the social danger is negligible in a criminal law sense. A distinction is made between civil, administrative, and disciplinary minor offenses and thus between civil, administrative, and disciplinary liability. 1  Facebook.
About Juvenile Crimes. A juvenile crime is an unlawful act committed by a minor (an individual under the age of 17 or 18, depending on the state). This may be a status offense, which is only unlawful because of the minor's age. Underage drinking and curfew violations are examples of status offenses. Other juvenile crimes are actions which are illegal no matter the individual's age. This would include such offenses as drug crimes, vandalism and arson