Knee pain is a common complaint for many people. There are several factors that can cause knee pain. Awareness and knowledge of the causes of knee pain lead to a more accurate diagnosis. Management of knee pain is in the accurate diagnosis and effective treatment for that diagnosis. Knee pain can be either referred pain or related to the knee joint itself.
Arthritis is a common cause of severe knee pain and disability. Unfortunately, arthritis is a chronic degenerative condition that can eventually require surgery. The three most common types of arthritis are rheumatoid arthritis, post-traumatic arthritis, and osteoarthritis. Osteoarthritis of the knee causes pain, limited range of motion, stiffness of the knee, swelling of the joint, tenderness, deformity and weakness. Causes of osteoarthritis include age, weight, genetics, previous injuries, infections, and illness (such as a tumor or gout).
Knee pain is a common problem that can originate in any of the bony structures compromising the knee joint (femur, tibia, fibula), the kneecap (patella), or the ligaments and cartilage (meniscus) of the knee. Knee pain facts. 1  Knee pain is a common problem with many causes, from acute injuries to medical conditions. 2  Knee pain can be localized or diffuse throughout the knee. 3  Knee pain is often accompanied by physical restriction. 4  A thorough physical examination will usually establish the diagnosis of knee pain
1 The 2 important tendons in the knee are (1) the quadriceps tendon connecting the quadriceps muscle, which lies on the front of the thigh, to the patella and (2) the patellar tendon connecting the patella to the tibia (technically this is a ligament because it connects 2 bones). 
It is also called patellofemoral pain syndrome, patellofemoral syndrome or anterior knee pain. The patella is the kneecap bone. It lies within the quadriceps tendon. This large tendon from the powerful thigh muscles (quadriceps) wraps round the patella and inserts into the top of the lower leg bone (tibia). 
Pain around the knee cap is a common problem. The pain may be brought on or made worse by day to day or sporting/exercise activities. Pain around the knee cap can have many different causes, such as the way the knee cap glides over the bones or because of knee overuse. Several different treatment options are available. Disease. A number of diseases can affect the knee. The most common is arthritis. Although arthritis technically means  joint inflammation , the term is used loosely to describe many different diseases that can affect the joints.
There are many diseases and conditions that can cause knee pain, but the leading causes are typically related to physical activity, such as overuse, injury, and age-related wear and tear on the muscles, cartilage, tendons and ligaments of the knee. Trauma-and injury-related causes of knee pain. Knee pain may be caused by injuries and trauma-related problems including: Bleeding within the joint space (hemarthrosis). Bone fracture (broken bone) or knee dislocation, especially of the patella (kneecap).
Yes. Probably 95% of knee pain caused by arthritis is osteoarthritis, which is caused by “wear and tear” on the joints. Other types, like rheumatoid arthritis, are much less common causes of knee... Other conditions that cause knee pain include: 1  Bursitis. 2  A bursa is a sac of fluid that resides below the skin overlying your joints. 3  Overuse, a fall, or repeated bending and kneeling can irritate the bursa overlying the knee cap (patella), causing pain and swelling. 1 Iliotibial band syndrome. 2  The iliotibial band is a piece of tough tissue that runs from your hip down to the outer part of your knee. 3  If it's irritated by overuse or other problems, it can become inflamed and cause pain on the outer side of the knee. 4  Osgood-Schlatter Disease.
1 Overuse, a fall, or repeated bending and kneeling can irritate the bursa overlying the knee cap (patella), causing pain and swelling. 2  This is known as prepatellar bursitis, but is commonly referred to as ''housemaid's knee'' or ''preacher's knee'' since they are often caused by repetitive kneeling. 1 Iliotibial band syndrome. 2  The iliotibial band is a piece of tough tissue that runs from your hip down to the outer part of your knee. 3  If it's irritated by overuse or other problems, it can become inflamed and cause pain on the outer side of the knee. 4  Osgood-Schlatter Disease.