However, some cats may attain the age of 21 years or more. By comparison, the average life expectancy of humans in the United States at birth in 2014 was 79.56 years. A one-year-old cat is roughly comparable, in developmental terms, to a 15-year-old-human. Subsequent years of a cat's life add progressively fewer years to its human age equivalent, so that a 15-year-old cat is roughly comparable, developmentally, to a 76-year-old human. The table below shows the correspondence between a cat's chronological age and the age of a human at a comparable stage of development
Billy is the approximate equivalent of a sixty year old human-the time of life for humans and corresponding age of cats that certain medical problems arise, along with a decrease in physical activity. In Billy's case, he developed diabetes when he was about nine years old. 
A: The notion that dogs and cats age seven years for every one year is a myth that's stuck around for years. If you think about it, some cats can live to be 18 or 19 years old. If they aged seven years for every one year, an 18-year-old cat would be equivalent to a 126-year-old person, clearly not very likely. 
Now you can find out by checking out my cat age chart below! It is believed that after the first 2 years of a cat's life, each feline year is approximately 4 human years. Cats are adolescents at about 6 months to one year old, middle aged at about 8 years of age, and considered senior citizens at about 12 years of age.
Cats don’t age at the same rate as humans. In fact, the first few years of a cat’s life are much longer (in human years), than their later adult years. What does this mean? In the first year of a cat’s life it will grow from a kitten into a young adult, which in human years, is about 15-18 years of age. At the end of this year your kitty will be approximately 24 human years old. After this second year, your cat will age at an average rate of 4 human years every year. So at 3 cat years old, your kitty will be about 28 human years old. To make the calculation simpler, you can use the following chart:
In the second year of your cat’s life you can expect him or her to grow into a more mature adult cat. At the end of this year your kitty will be approximately 24 human years old. After this second year, your cat will age at an average rate of 4 human years every year. So at 3 cat years old, your kitty will be about 28 human years old. To make the calculation simpler, you can use the following chart:
Formula. There is no agreed upon formula to calculate a cat's age. In our calculation we assume, a 1-year-old cat is equal to a 15-year-old human and a 2-year-old cat is equal to a 24-year-old human. Then add four years for every year after that. 
Most people think that calculating the age of dogs and cats in “human years” is quite simple: multiply their age by seven. For example, a 4-year-old dog or cat would actually be 28 years old in human years. Cats. Now let’s take a glimpse at a simple formula for calculating feline age in human years. Assume that a 1-year-old cat is equal to a 15-year-old human and a 2-year-old cat is equal to a 24-year-old human. Then add four years for every year after that. (Example: A 4-year-old cat would be 32 in human years.).
The main reason is that cats mature quickly in the first couple of years of life. To convert cat age to an equivalent human age, an accepted method is to add 15 years for the first year of life. Then add 10 years for the second year of life. After that, add 4 years for every cat year. This means that by year two, a cat has matured to about the same as a 25 year old human. So it isn't terribly complex, but you would have to do some figuring on paper or in your head.
A popular misconception is that cats age seven years (in human years) for each calendar year. In fact, feline aging is much more rapid during the first two years of life. A cat reaches the approximate human age of 15 during its first year, then 24 at age 2. Each year thereafter, it ages approximately four “cat years” for every calendar year.