Natural gas can also form from fossil plant material. During sedimentary rock formation the remains of algae and zooplankton are converted into a mixture of organic hydrocarbons known as kerogen. Over geologic time heat and pressure can convert kerogen into oil or natural gas. Fossil fuels currently provide more than 85% of all the energy consumed in the United States. Crude oil supplies 40% of our energy needs and accounts for 99% of the fuel for cars and trucks. Coal is the major source of energy for generating electricity worldwide (U.S. Department of Energy)
Most books overlook this, but petroleum and coal, the fossil fuels, are very large and widespread examples of chemofossils. Chemical fossils are also important in scientific research into well-preserved sedimentary rocks. They are exceptionally rare, but trace fossils have special value because they are remains of an organism's behavior. Finally there are chemical fossils or chemofossils, remains that consist of mere organic compounds or proteins found in a body of rock.
Chemical fossils are chemicals found in rocks and fossil fuels (petroleum, coal, and natural gas) that provide an organic signature for ancient life. Molecular fossils and isotope ratios represent two types of chemical fossils. The fossils themselves are referred to as the fossil record. The fossil record was one of the early sources of data underlying the study of evolution and continues to be relevant to the history of life on Earth.
Fossils are not only the actual remains of organisms, such as teeth, bones, shell, and leaves (body fossils), but also the results of their activity, such as burrows and foot prints (trace fossils), and organic compounds they produce by biochemical processes (chemical fossils). The definitions below explain the types of fossils found in the context of fossilization processes. You will find there is some overlaps in the terminology commonly used in paleontology and geology. Body Fossils The processes of fossilization are complex with many stages from burial to discovery as a fossil.
Fossil fuels are fuels formed by natural processes such as anaerobic decomposition of buried dead organisms. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. 
Introduction. In this lesson, you will investigate what happens to fossil fuels, such as hydrocarbons, when they burn. This process of burning is called combustion. To better understand the combustion of fossil fuels, you will access two online resources. Please answer the questions below based on your reading. 
Fossils may also consist of the marks left behind by the organism while it was alive, such as animal tracks or feces (coprolites). These types of fossil are called trace fossils (or ichnofossils), as opposed to body fossils. The fossils themselves are referred to as the fossil record. The fossil record was one of the early sources of data underlying the study of evolution and continues to be relevant to the history of life on Earth.
By Andrew Alden. Fossils are precious gifts from the geologic past: signs and remains of ancient living things preserved in the Earth's crust. The word has a Latin origin, from fossilis meaning dug up, and that remains the key attribute of what we label as fossils. They are exceptionally rare, but trace fossils have special value because they are remains of an organism's behavior. Finally there are chemical fossils or chemofossils, remains that consist of mere organic compounds or proteins found in a body of rock.
Chemical preparation is most frequently used: 1  For delicate specimens, such as fossil fish, that might be damaged using mechanical preparation methods. 2  For certain types of fossil invertebrates, where freeing both the inner and outer shell surfaces might reveal important morphology. 1 For delicate specimens, such as fossil fish, that might be damaged using mechanical preparation methods. 2  For certain types of fossil invertebrates, where freeing both the inner and outer shell surfaces might reveal important morphology. 3  Where complete removal of the bones from the matrix is necessary.