The Roman god Jupiter (or Zeus in the Greek mythology) is the chief Roman god, and god of light, of the sky and weather, and of the state and its welfare and its laws. Jupiter's consort was Juno, inspiring a neighboring town to name itself  Juno Beach . The most notable landmark is the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, completed in 1860. Made of brick, it was painted red in 1910 to cover discoloration caused by humidity. In 2000, the median income for a household in the town is $54,945, and the median income for a family is $64,873. Males have a median income of $44,883 versus $33,514 for females. The per capita income for the town is $35,088.
Zakiya is a rare first name for females. Zakiya is an equally unique surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Zakiya for girls. Zakiya has not been recorded in the list thus far. Zakiya /za-kiya/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced za-KEE-ah. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Zakiya is pure. Kreatif forms: Zahkiya, Zeakiya, Zukiya.
Please use this list of Australian baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Zaya in Australian origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. The arrival of a new baby girl in the family brings with it a deep sense of joy and happiness to one and all. This is specially true for the father because the uniquely enchanting place daughters have for Dads is legendary. Choosing a baby girl name for your newly born miss isn't really as complicated as it seems.
Russian form of MICHAEL, and a variant transcription of Bulgarian MIHAIL ... [more]. MILAN милан m Czech, Slovak, Russian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Dutch. From the Slavic element milu meaning gracious, dear, originally a short form of names that began with that element ... Russian form of Innocentius (see INNOCENT). INNOKENTY иннокентий m Russian. Variant transcription of INNOKENTIY. IOANN иоанн m Russian. Older Russian form of JOHN. IONA (2) иона m Russian, Georgian, Biblical Latin. Form of JONAH used in the Latin Old Testament, as well as the Russian and Georgian form.
The area where the town now sits was originally named for the Hobe Indian tribe which lived at the mouth of the Loxahatchee River, and whose name is also preserved in the name of nearby Hobe Sound. A mapmaker misunderstood the Spanish spelling Jobe of the Indian name Hobe and recorded it as Jove. Subsequent mapmakers further misunderstood this to be the Latin translation of the god Jupiter, and they anglicized the name from Jove to Jupiter. In 2000, the median income for a household in the town is $54,945, and the median income for a family is $64,873. Males have a median income of $44,883 versus $33,514 for females. The per capita income for the town is $35,088.
Cafe Zaiya Closed by the DOH. We’ve gotten multiple reports that Cafe Zaiya (on 41st btw. Mad+5th) has been closed by the DOH. According to the DOH website they got a 59 on their last inspection on Sunday, but there’s no record of what for. Hopefully they’ll be back open soon…. Posted by The ML Team at 11:45 am, July 18th, 2013 under Cafe Zaiya. Photo courtesy of Lunch’er Fred W. It’s been a tough couple of months for the 41st Street branch of Cafe Zaiya (btw. Mad+5th). Back in November they were temporarily closed by a fire in their building, and last week we discovered that they’re closed again-this time by the Department of Health.
Work is tough. Work is not fun. And quite frankly, I don’t understand why more people don’t use their lunch break to relax-or even better, have some fun! Of course most people’s idea of fun is probably different from my idea of fun. My idea of fun, is lunch at Cafe Zaiya-the funnest restaurant in Midtown! (As declared by me of course… I’m clearly a very strange person.). Cafe Zaiya is Japanese-but not in the way that probably first comes to mind. They are not a Ramen place, and they don’t specialize in sushi (although they do have sushi as an option). It’s more of a Japanese bakery, that also has a nice variety of bento boxes (or Japanese boxed lunches). 
CAFE ZAIYA, 1071 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NY-Restaurant inspection findings and violations. 1 05H-Properly enclosed service/maintenance area not provided. 2  10F-Equipment not easily movable or sealed to floor, adjoining equipment, adjacent walls or ceiling. 3  Aisle or workspace inadequate. 4  10H-Food service operation occurring in room used as living or sleeping quarters.