Noun. 1. bleaching agent-an agent that makes things white or colorless. blanching agent, whitener, bleach. benzoyl peroxide-a white crystalline peroxide used in bleaching (flour or oils or fats) and as a catalyst for free radical reactions. agent-a substance that exerts some force or effect. bleaching powder, chloride of lime, chlorinated lime-a white powder comprised of calcium hydroxide and chloride and hypochlorite and used to bleach and/or disinfect. bleach liquor-a solution containing bleaching agents that is used to bleach textiles or paper pulp. calcium hypochlorite-any hypochlorite of calcium; used as a bleaching agent. chlorine dioxide-an explosive gas (ClO2) used chiefly in bleaching paper or starch or soap or flour and in water purification. chlorine water-an aqueous solution of chlorine
An agent that makes things white or colorless. Classified under: Nouns denoting substances. Synonyms: blanching agent; bleaching agent; whitener; bleach. Hypernyms (bleaching agent is a kind of...): agent (a substance that exerts some force or effect). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of bleaching agent): benzoyl peroxide (a white crystalline peroxide used in bleaching (flour or oils or fats) and as a catalyst for free radical reactions). • BLEACHING AGENT (noun). The noun BLEACHING AGENT has 1 sense: 1. an agent that makes things white or colorless. Familiarity information: BLEACHING AGENT used as a noun is very rare.
Skin Lightening Treatments. Skin lightening products -- also known as bleaching creams, whiteners, skin brighteners, or fade -- work by reducing a pigment called melanin in the skin. Most people who use lighteners do so to treat skin problems such as freckles, age spots, acne scars, or discoloration related to hormone
1 An oxidizing bleach works by breaking the chemical bonds that make up the chromophore. 2  This changes the molecule into a different substance that either does not contain a chromophore, or contains a chromophore that does not absorb visible light. 3  This is the mechanism of bleaches based on chlorine. Color safe bleach is a chemical that uses hydrogen peroxide as the active ingredient (to help remove stains) rather than sodium hypochlorite or chlorine. It also has chemicals in it that help brighten colors.
Bleaching agents. General info. The purpose of bleaching agents is to bleach the natural substances in cotton fibres and cellulose fibres that make the fabric yellowish and to bleach spots that are not removed by the laundering process. Bleaching agents also bleach textile colours and hence should be avoided for coloured textile
Chlorine is the basis for the most commonly used bleaches, for example, the solution of sodium hypochlorite, which is so ubiquitous that most simply call it bleach, and calcium hypochlorite, the active compound in bleaching powder. Color safe bleach is a chemical that uses hydrogen peroxide as the active ingredient (to help remove stains) rather than sodium hypochlorite or chlorine. It also has chemicals in it that help brighten colors.
A bleaching agent is a substance that can whiten or decolorize other substances. Colored substances generally contain groups of atoms, called chromophores, that can absorb visible light having specific, characteristic wavelengths, and reflect or transmit the part of light that is not absorbed. 