To the east lies the Caribbean, and to the west the Pacific. In the north are the Isabella Mountains, while the country's main feature in the southwest is Lake Nicaragua, 148km (92 miles) long and about 55km (34 miles) at its widest. The island of Ometepe is the largest of the 310 islands on the lake. 
From north to south, they are the Huapi Huapí, mountains The Amerrique, mountains and The Yolaina. Mountains the highest peak In, Nicaragua Mogoton, mogotón peak sits On the, honduran border about (161 kilometers) 100 miles inland From The. Pacific ocean the peak rises to a 2,438 of (7,999 meters). 7999 feet Nicaragua has more than ninety principal rivers running through canyons of various depths. In comparison to mountain ranges in North and South America, and even compared to adjacent Honduras, Nicaragua's highest mountains are modest, so few of its canyons are notably deep. There are no major caves in Nicaragua.
Cerro El Diablo. Cerro El Diablo is a 4,668 ft / 1,423 m mountain peak near Jinotega, Jinotega, Nicaragua. Based on peakery data, it ranks as the 3rd highest mountain in Jinotega and the 14th highest mountain in N... 
Nicaragua Table of Contents. Nicaragua, approximately the size of New York state, is the largest country in Central America. The country covers a total area of 129,494 square kilometers (120,254 square kilometers of which are land area) and contains a diversity of climates and terrains.
Nicaragua Regions are full of diversities based on the geographical features of the land. Nicaragua is located in Central America bordering both North Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. The several regions of Nicaragua offer different types of environment such as beaches, forests, mountains, islands and all. Nicaragua is divided into 4 major regions
Mountain Ranges of Nicaragua. Many visitors to this picturesque country enjoy the many striking mountains which can be found here. A great place to enjoy wildlife, coffee and incredible bird-watching opportunities, Nicaragua’s mountains certainly have a lot to offer. Nicaragua has more than one mountain range – some reaching to an elevation of over 3281 feet above sea level. It is also one of the best areas to visit coffee plantations or to go bird watching. The majority of hiking trails in the country can be found in this part of Nicaragua. The mountain ranges of Nicaragua feature incredible biodiversity.
Geography. Bordered by Costa Rica on the South and Honduras on the North, Nicaragua is the largest Central American republic. The vast Pacific Ocean forms her western border, the balmy Caribbean Sea the east. Is is a warm and friendly land of lakes and mountains; rivers and volcanoes, sea and sun. 
) is a country in Central America, bordering both the Caribbean Sea and the North Pacific Ocean, between Costa Rica and Honduras. Nicaragua is the largest country in Central America. Nicaragua covers a total area of 130,370 square kilometers (119,990 square kilometers of which is land area) and contains a variety of climates and terrains. The country's physical geography divides it into three major zones: the Pacific lowlands, the wetter, cooler central highlands, and the Caribbean lowland
1 LOCATION AND SIZE. Nicaragua is the largest country in Central America. It is located north of Costa Rica and south of Honduras, between the Pacific Ocean and the Caribbean Sea. With a total area of about 129,494 square kilometers (49,998 square miles), the country is slightly smaller than the state of New York. Nicaragua has more than ninety principal rivers running through canyons of various depths. In comparison to mountain ranges in North and South America, and even compared to adjacent Honduras, Nicaragua's highest mountains are modest, so few of its canyons are notably deep. There are no major caves in Nicaragua.