Current meaning. At the end of the Mexican flag history, certain symbols and meanings were agreed upon. The new meanings of the colours are fairly recent: Green is hope, white is unity, and red is the blood of heroes. These meanings are not enforced by law, so they may continue to change. The Flag of Mexico, as it is today, was adopted in 1968. But Mexican flag history really goes back over 600 years earlier than that. In the early 1300s, so the story goes, the wandering tribe of Mexica people were looking for a hom
Flags carry a lot of meaning to a country, and just like the American flag, the Mexican flag is a symbol of freedom. The following article by Country Facts explains the origins of the Mexican flag and the folklore that inspired the Mexican flag’s crest and colors. Symbolism of the Mexican Flag The symbolism of the three colors of the Mexican flag is also best explained in light of Mexican history. Originally a colony of Spain, Mexico finally gained it’s independence in the 19th century. The color green was chosen for the flag to represent independence from Spain
The current law of national symbols, Law on the National Arms, Flag, and Anthem, that governs the use of the national flag has been in place since 1984. Red, white, and green are the colors of the national liberation army in Mexico. The central emblem is the Mexican coat of arms, based on the Aztec symbol for Tenochtitlan (now Mexico City), the center of the Aztec empire. It recalls the legend that inspired the Aztecs to settle on what was originally a lake-island. 1 The first national flag was established in 1821, the first year of Mexican recognized sovereignty. 2  The imperial government that was set up chose a tricolor flag of green, white and red and charged with the national coat of arms.
Find out all you need to know about the Mexican Flag Symbol. Flag Symbol. Signs and Symbols Index. Mexican Flag Symbol-Meaning The study of flags is called Vexillology and comes from the Latin word vexillum (flag) and the Greek suffix-logy (study). The word flag is derived from the old Saxon word fflaken which means to fly or to float in the air. 
Mexican flag is full of national symbolism. The green strip represents the Independence Movement. The white stripe represents the purity of the Catholic faith. The red stripe represents the Spaniards that joined in the quest for Independence and the blood of the national heroes. 
Mexican flag symbolizes the greatest things of the Mexican people. The Mexican flag consists of: three colors (green, white and red), and the Mexican Coat of Arms (the Mexican golden eagle perched upon a prickly pear cactus devouring a snake. The cactus is situated on a rock that rises above a lake). The snake on the Mexican flag that the eagle is devouring represents all of the Mexican enemies. The fact that the Mexican eagle is devouring the snake means that the Mexican people will always prevail over their enemies and that they would never surrender.
The Mexican flag has a vertical tricolor of green, white, and red with the national coat of arms (The coat of arms depicts a Mexican golden eagle perched on a prickly pear cac … tus devouring a snake.). The symbol of the flag means coat of arms. The symbol looks like an eagle, holding a serpent in its talon, is perched on top of a prickly pear cactus; the cactus is situated o … n a rock that rises above a lake.
The flag of Mexico (Spanish: Bandera de Mexico) méxico is a vertical tricolor of, green, white and red with the national coat of arms charged in the center of the white. stripe 1 The first national flag was established in 1821, the first year of Mexican recognized sovereignty. 2  The imperial government that was set up chose a tricolor flag of green, white and red and charged with the national coat of arms.