Wealthy Ancient Egyptians wore gold jewelry and turquoise and lapis lazuli stones but poor egyptians wore beaded jewelry. But both poor and wealthy wore rings neclaces, and ea … r studs. The wealthy wore fine transparent white gauze adn earings, rings, armbands, anklets, and bracelets. Everybody wore jewelry. Egyptians wore crowns, wigs, combs made of Ivory, jade, gold, or resin-ed papyrus. necklaces, earrings and amulets, charms ,and bracelets. Mostly rich Egyptians wore these. Me … n and women, like court officials, priestess, scribes, priests, archetects ,and hired mourners
In ancient Egypt both men and women were great lovers of jewelry and adorned themselves with a profusion of trinkets. Jewelry also showed wealth and status and offered protection from evil. This protection was available for those dead or alive and was thought to bring prosperity in both the present and the after life. Egyptian bracelets were produced in a variety of different types. Some bracelets were anklets and armlets that were plain gold rings, whilst wrist bracelets were made of small beads in gold, lapis lazuli, carnelian, and green feldspar, strung on gold wire.
Ancient Egyptian clothes refers to clothing worn in ancient Egypt from the end of the Neolithic period (prior to 3100 BC) to the collapse of the Ptolemaic dynasty with the death of Cleopatra VII in 30 BC. Egyptian clothing was filled with a variety of colors. Adorned with precious gems and jewels, the fashions of the Ancient Egyptians were made for not only beauty but also comfort. From about 2130 BC during the Old Kingdom, garments were simple. The men wore wrap around skirts known as the Shendyt, which were belted at the waist, sometimes pleated or gathered in the front. During this time, men's skirts were short. As the Middle Kingdom of Egypt, 1600 B.C., came, the skirt was worn longer.
Fashion in Ancient Egypt. Ancient Egyptian fashion consisted of clothes adorned with a variety of colors and precious gems and jewels. While fashion in Ancient Egypt was primarily constructed for the purpose of comfort, this did not mean that ancient Egyptians felt they should sacrifice beauty for comfort. A popular type of jewelry was the amulet, believed to protect the wearer. Amulets were often made in the form of sacred symbols, like the Eye of Horus or the ankh. Both sexes wore jeweled collars made of strings of beads, as well as armbands, bracelets and anklets. Finger rings often had seals on them.
Nail Polish. The Egyptian queen even wore nail polish, made of the reddish-brown dye called henna, which comes from the Egyptian privet tree. And Cleopatra often had her palms painted with henna in elaborate designs. This painting is a great example of some of the makeup people in Egypt used. Over five thousand years ago, the ancient Egyptians used eye shadow, not only for cosmetic but practical purposes as well.
Upper classes wore jewery that was made from valuble stones like turquoise,cornaline and lapis lazuli. In the lower calsses wore jewelry that was made from simple glass. the jewelry showed how rich you were. the different kinds of jewelry are rings ear rings neck collars bracelaceds necklaces and pendants. Egyptians wore crowns, wigs, combs made of Ivory, jade, gold, or resin-ed papyrus. necklaces, earrings and amulets, charms ,and bracelets. Mostly rich Egyptians wore these. Me … n and women, like court officials, priestess, scribes, priests, archetects ,and hired mourner
Ancient Egyptians wore jewelry to enhance the beauty of the women  and increase the stature of the men. The wealthier the person the  more elaborate the jewelry worn. They t … hought that rings and amulets could keep away evil sprits and prevent injury. Both men and women wore pierced earrings, armlets, bracelets, and anklets. In stat appearances, Cleopatra would wear the uraeus, or Egyptian crown which was a gold headband with three snake heads over the forehead. At dinner parties she would wear th … e standard chaplet as all others did.
All classes in the Egyptian society wore jewelry. A popular type of jewelry was the amulet, believed to protect the wearer. Amulets were often made in the form of sacred symbols, like the Eye of Horus or the ankh. Both sexes wore jeweled collars made of strings of beads, as well as armbands, bracelets and anklets. Finger rings often had seals on them.
Queen Cleopatra made a lasting impact on Egypt —and continues to influence fashion. She's one of the most famous women who ever ruled, and was the last pharaoh to reign in ancient Egypt. Cleopatra was Greek descent...and her family before her for 500 years ruled Egypt and lived in Egypt, not Greece...the Ptolemies. They did not speak the ancient Egyptian language either...they spoke Greek in the palace, etc. .