According to Jean Piaget 's theories on cognitive development, transductive reasoning or transductive logic is the primary form of reasoning used during the preoperational stage of development. This stage occurs approximately from the ages of 2-7. 
Transductive reasoning is another feature of the child's thinking in the substage. Transductive reasoning is a faulty type of logic that involves making inferences from one specific to another. It can lead to correct or accurate conclusions, but it is not guaranteed to do so. 2. Piaget's four stages of development occur in infancy, preschool, childhood, and adolescence. Each stage is characterized by a general cognitive structure that affects all of the child's thinking.
The foregoing example illustrates a form of reasoning that is characteristic of young children. This transductive reasoning is from concrete event to concrete event, as opposed to deductive reasoning, which is from a general principle to a specific conclusion. If the child were reasoning deductively, she might think. Instead the child reasons from case to case. Transductive reasoning helps us to understand a number of otherwise puzzling features of young children's behavior. For example, young children often believe that when two events occur in succession, the first causes the second.
Logical processes of an inductive or deductive nature used to draw a conclusion from fact or premise. 2. The sequential set of arguments used to establish a conclusion. REASONING: Let us use reasoning when deciding who should go first.. No related posts. 
During the scientific process, deductive reasoning is used to reach a logical true conclusion. Another type of reasoning, inductive, is also used. Often, deductive reasoning and inductive reasoning are confused. It is important to learn the meaning of each type of reasoning so that proper logic can be identified. Deductive reasoning, or deduction, starts out with a general statement, or hypothesis, and examines the possibilities to reach a specific, logical conclusion, according to the University of California. The scientific method uses deduction to test hypotheses and theories.
Precausal thinking is a characteristic of preoperational thought. It's associated with transductive reasoning and animism. Transductive reasoning is seeing similarity between 2 or more objects and events actually there is no relationship. 
Transductive reasoning. Transductive reasoning refers to the errors in understanding cause-and-effect relationships that are commonly made by preoperational children. Other /More definition: Transductive reasoning is reasoning from one particular fact or case to another similar fact or case. It is reasoning from the specific to the specific. In Deductive reasoning, one reasons from the general to the specific and in Inductive reasoning, one reasons from the specific to the general
For other uses, see Transduction. Transduction in general is the transportation or transformation of something from one form, place, or concept to another. In psychology, transduction refers to reasoning from specific cases to general cases, typically employed by children during their development. 