TPMT enzyme measurement is based on the red cell activity levels, which can be distorted following blood transfusion. Up to 10% of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients undergoing TPMT assessment have had a blood transfusion in the previous 4 months (M. Schwab, personal communication). Azathioprine is metabolized to its active metabolite by a series of enzyme steps, including TPMT. TPMT enzyme activity is highly variable: 90% of individuals have high/normal activity, 10% have intermediate activity and 0.3% low/absent activity [ 3 ].
A Guide to the TPMT Lab Test. written by: angiem1981•edited by: Diana Cooper•updated: 7/5/2011. The TPMT lab test, or the Thiopurine methyltransferase test, is a blood test used to check levels of the enzyme thiopurine before beginning certain therapies. This test can indicate whether or not thiopurine drugs will be an effective and safe treatment for the patient. slide 1 of 6. 
The Test. The tests for thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) enzyme activity or its underlying genetics are measured in people who are about to start treatment with a thiopurine drug. One or the other of these tests is used to identify individuals at risk of developing severe side effects from thiopurine therapy. Phenotype test for TPMT. 1  If someone has little to no detectable TPMT activity, they are at risk of developing severe side effects to thiopurine drugs. 2  Usually the doctor will find an alternative drug treatment.
Individuals with no TPMT enzyme can become severely ill if treated with normal doses of thiopurine drugs. These patients develop bone marrow suppression with a reduction in blood cells, which causes anaemia, infection and abnormal bleeding. Such side effects can be avoided if TPMT is measured before starting treatment. 
TPMT. TPMT, also known as Thiopurine S-methyltransferase, is an enzyme that determines the level of 6-MMP as well as 6- TGN which are metabolites that are responsible for the potential toxicity and therapeutic aspect of thiopurine medications such as 6-MP, Azathioprine, and Imuran. 1 [2] Thus, it is imperative that blood counts be regular tested when taking thiopurine drugs. 2  Use of thiopurines will affect the results of TPMT enzyme testing. 3  The test should be conducted PRIOR to commencing use of the drug.
The TPMT gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called thiopurine S-methyltransferase (TPMT). This enzyme carries out a specific chemical reaction called S-methylation of a group of molecules known as aromatic and heterocyclic sulphydryl compounds. The TPMT gene can be classified as either low-activity or high-activity. When the gene is altered in a way that impairs the activity of the TPMT enzyme, it is described as low-activity.
PROMETHEUS ® TPMT Enzyme testing provides a quantitative analysis of a patient’s thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) enzyme activity level. Because each patient metabolizes thiopurines differently, the efficacy and toxicity of thiopurines can vary widely from patient to patient. • A quantitative analysis (phenotype) of TPMT Enzyme activity levels. • PROMETHEUS TPMT Enzyme is only offered at Prometheus. • Patent protected. • Specimen Requirements-Whole blood, 5.0 mL; EDTA / Lavender Top Tube.
A doctor will typically order a TPMT enzyme activity test or genetic test before starting a person on thiopurine drug treatment. Occasionally, a TPMT genotype test may be ordered when a person treated with a thiopurine drug experiences side effects, such as a decreased WBC count. Phenotype test for TPMT. 1  If someone has little to no detectable TPMT activity, they are at risk of developing severe side effects to thiopurine drugs. 2  Usually the doctor will find an alternativ
Knowledge of the TPMT enzyme phenotype may reduce time of response, allow physicians to individualize dosing, identify patients in whom thiopurine therapy should be avoided and help reduce the risk of leukopenia. Product Description. • A quantitative analysis (phenotype) of TPMT Enzyme activity levels. • PROMETHEUS TPMT Enzyme is only offered at Prometheus. • Patent protected. • Specimen Requirements-Whole blood, 5.0 mL; EDTA / Lavender Top Tube.
A small number of people are deficient in the TPMT enzyme needed to metabolize these drugs. This can result in serious toxicity. Testing TPMT levels before starting the drug therapy can prevent it. slide 1 of 5. Thiopurine methyltransferase (TPMT) is an enzyme whose physiological function is not well understood. A small but significant portion of the population is TPMT-deficient. Low TMPT levels can result in thiopurine drugs being inadequately metabolized. This can lead to life-threatening toxicity as the un-metabolized drug accumulates in bone marrow.