1 Obesity can be very serious and even cause death. 2  Pay attention especially if the weight is around your waist since it does affect heart and circulatory health to have it located there. 3  Often obese people have high cholesterol and triglycerides, which can lead to strokes and heart attacks.
Weight Loss & Obesity. How obesity affects your health depends on many things, including your age, gender, where you carry your body fat, and how physically active you are.
Obesity-Health Risks of Obesity. How obesity affects your health depends on many things, including your age, gender, where you carry your body fat, and how physically active you are.
Stroke. Being overweight or obese can lead to a buildup of plaque in your arteries. Eventually, an area of plaque can rupture, causing a blood clot to form. If the clot is close to your brain, it can block the flow of blood and oxygen to your brain and cause a stroke. The risk of having a stroke rises as BMI increases.
Obesity. Obesity: Having excess body fat that is considered unhealthy for a person’s stature is called obesity and increases the risk of diabetes, heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and.. obesity overweight excess-body-fat effects of obesity obese.
1 Chronic fatigue. 2  Obesity can be very serious and even cause death. 3  Pay attention especially if the weight is around your waist since it does affect heart and circulatory health to have it located there. 4  Often obese people have high cholesterol and triglycerides, which can lead to strokes and heart attacks.
1 If you are significantly overweight, you need to avoid further weight gain and you need to lose weight. 2  Excess body fat is a lot to carry and hard on your heart. 3  Your lungs have to work harder, too. 4  The correct weight for a person is related to BMI (body mass index).
1 Pay attention especially if the weight is around your waist since it does affect heart and circulatory health to have it located there. 2  Often obese people have high cholesterol and triglycerides, which can lead to strokes and heart attacks. 3  Type II Diabetes and high blood pressure are additional risks.