Veins and arteries of various types are an important part of circulatory and cardiovascular system. The whole function of these systems is carried with the help of lungs and heart which are themselves a complex network of different small parts and structures.
The pulmonary vein sends the oxygen-rich blood back to the heart, according to NLM. The systemic circulation is the portion of the circulatory system is the network of veins, arteries and blood vessels that transports blood from heart, services the body's cells and then re-enters the heart, the Mayo Clinic noted.
NOTE The function of veins is to return blood to the heart. Veins have thinner walls and have one way valves in them. 1  those that take blood from the heart to the lungs to be re-oxygenated; known as the pulmonary arteries. 2  These are the only arteries that transport de-oxygenated blood.
The main function of the circulatory system is to get blood throught the body. Your blood is pumped around by the heart which is the main function in your circulatory system. The heart sends blood through your blood vessels. The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood vessels, lymph, blood, and the lymphatic vessels and glands.
The pulmonary circulatory system sends oxygen-depleted blood away from the heart through the pulmonary artery to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood to the heart through the pulmonary veins, according to the Mayo Clinic.
The circulatory system is a vast network of organs and vessels that is responsible for the flow of blood, nutrients, hormones, oxygen and other gases to and from cells.
The vascular system, also called the circulatory system, is made up of the vessels that carry blood and lymph through the body. The arteries and veins carry blood throughout the body, delivering oxygen and nutrients to the body tissues and taking away tissue waste matter.
The circulatory system consists of the heart, blood and blood vessels. The functions of the circulatory system are: to carry nutrients to and waste away from every cell in your body As the name suggests, the circulatory system is involved with circulating blood (or fluid connective tissue) throughout the body.