A Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.), more correctly called a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine, is very much like a traditional medical doctor (M.D.), but receives additional training in the body's musculoskeletal system.
For the American Medical practice of osteopathic physicians in the United States, see Osteopathic medicine in the United States. For diseases of the bone, see bone disease and osteology. Osteopathy is a type of alternative medicine that emphasizes the physical manipulation of the body's muscle tissue and bones. Its name derives from Ancient Greek bone (ὀστέον) and disease of (-πάθεια),
Like all allopathic physicians (or MDs), osteopathic physicians complete 4 years of medical school and can choose to practice in any specialty of medicine. However, osteopathic physicians receive an additional 300 to 500 hours in the study of hands-on manual medicine and the body's musculoskeletal system.
A doctor of osteopathy typically practices manipulative medicine treatment in addition to more traditional methods of symptom relief and prevention. A doctor of osteopathy studies the body as a whole. A doctor of osteopathy is less likely to specialize than a medical doctor.
Definition. Osteopathy is a system and philosophy of health care that separated from traditional (allopathic) medical practice about a century ago. It places emphasis on the musculoskeletal system, hence the name—osteo refers to bone and path refers to disease.
email. Knowledge center. Osteopathy is a form of drug-free non-invasive manual medicine that focuses on total body health by treating and strengthening the musculoskeletal framework, which includes the joints, muscles and spine. Its aim is to positively affect the body's nervous, circulatory and lymphatic systems.
Page Content. ​ Developed more than 130 years ago by Andrew Taylor Still, MD, DO, osteopathic medicine brings a unique philosophy to traditional medicine. Osteopathic medicine focuses on the whole person, the relationship of the body’s nerves, muscles, bones and organs, and the body’s innate ability to heal itself.