Full Definition of ROCOCO. 1. a: of or relating to an artistic style especially of the 18th century characterized by fanciful curved asymmetrical forms and elaborate ornamentation b: of or relating to an 18th century musical style marked by light gay ornamentation and departure from thorough-bass and polyphony. 2.
T he term rococo style, or the rococo, refers to a style of decoration current in Europe, particularly France, during the 18th century. It applies both to interior decoration and to ornaments.
rococo. n (often capital). 1. (Architecture) a style of architecture and decoration that originated in France in the early 18th century, characterized by elaborate but graceful, light, ornamentation, often containing asymmetrical motifs.
Rococo (/rəˈkoʊkoʊ/ or /roʊkəˈkoʊ/), less commonly roccoco, or Late Baroque, is an 18th-century artistic movement and style, affecting many aspects of the arts including painting, sculpture, architecture, interior design, decoration, literature, music, and theatre.
Art Periods: ROCOCO STYLE. T he term rococo style, or the rococo, refers to a style of decoration current in Europe, particularly France, during the 18th century. It applies both to interior decoration and to ornaments.
Rococo is an artistic style which originated in the 18th century in France. Often referred to merely as Late Baroque, the Rococo developed from the Baroque artistic movement. Whilst it kept several characteristics of the original style, including elaboration and ornate themes, it was also more playful and asymmetrical.
The term rococo comes from the French rocaille,rock-work, and hallmarks of the full-fledged style are architectural decoration based on arabesques, shells, elaborate curves, and asymmetry; iridescent pastel colors; and, in painting, light-hearted rather than weighty subject matter.
The Rococo style was used primarily in furniture, silver and ceramics, rather than architecture. It takes its name from the French rocaille (pronounced 'rock-eye'), which means the rock or broken shell motifs that often formed part of the designs. Rococo was fashionable from about 1730 to 1770.