1 You'll get best results with no-sugar needed pectin, whether you choose to add sugar or not! 2  If you can't get no-sugar needed pectin, use low-sugar pectin. 3  See here for more information about how to choose the type of pectin to use. 4  Lemon Juice - 1/4 cup of lemon juice per 5 - 6 cup batch of jam. 1 Other combinations: Of course, you can use of combinations of fruit juice, honey, sugar and/or Stevia (or if you prefer, Splenda). 2  It will be trial and error to find out what works best for you, as I haven't tested all possible combinations.
Use a tested recipe with little sugar added and low-or no-sugar pectin. In food preservation recipes where sugar is optional, a sugar substitute like Splenda can often be used. Consult the manufacturer for recipes. 
Granular Splenda® does not provide preservative properties like sugar. Canning Fruits: Whereas we do not have published research work with using sucralose in the canning of fruits at home available to us, it is possible to use it for sweetening the water used to cover fruits when canning. The texture and color preserving aspects of a sugar syrup will not be provided
My extended family is diabetic and I would like to can some sugar free food for them. Hi Jessica, I do know you can use splenda for a sugar substitute in canning but have not done so myself. I found the splenda website with information. I can significant amts of foods substituting Splenda for sugar and am always happy with the results. The fact that you can substitute Splenda cup-for-cup with the recipe's sugar amt is a great boon. This is a great help for our family because of diabetes and weight loss programs.
We have so many blackberries right now, and I love making jam, but without all the added sugar. You can't use regular pectin when cooking with Splenda, as it requires real sugar to set. However, there are low and no-sugar pectins available. I use Mrs. Wage's Lite Home Jell, but there are others. It turns out just as well, and is diabetic-friendly. I'm sure any berry could be used instead of blackberries. 1 Bring back to a boil, and stir slowly until Splenda and pectin have dissolved. 2  Mix well and allow to simmer one more minute. 3  Fill clean, hot jars with the jam, leaving about 1/4 inch space, and seal with two-part lids. 4  Store jam in refrigerator. 5  After opening, jam can be stored for two weeks, refrigerated.
You could use Splenda ® as the optional sweetener in a jam or jelly made with a no-sugar needed pectin, such as Mrs. Wages™ Lite Home Jell ® Fruit Pectin or Ball ® No-Sugar Needed Pectin. With these low-methoxyl pectins, no sugar is required at all. Sugar substitutes can be added as desired simply for flavor. There has not been any published research work with using sucralose in the canning of fruits at home. If one uses Splenda ® instead of sugar, our best assumption at this time is that the texture and color preserving aspects of sugar syrup won't be there.
Canning with Splenda: I know when cooking/baking you can substitute sugar with Splenda. I can significant amts of foods substituting Splenda for sugar and am always happy with the results. The fact that you can substitute Splenda cup-for-cup with the recipe's sugar amt is a great boon. This is a great help for our family because of diabetes and weight loss programs.
Since sugar is actually optional in canning I'd try the syrup combination suggested... and then adjust it to your taste. Use this for any fruits that you want to can. This page has several recipes for canning jam with splenda. I can significant amts of foods substituting Splenda for sugar and am always happy with the results. The fact that you can substitute Splenda cup-for-cup with the recipe's sugar amt is a great boon. This is a great help for our family because of diabetes and weight loss programs.
Jams and Jellies, or Fruit Spreads: You could use Splenda® as the optional sweetener in a jam or jelly made with a no-sugar needed pectin, such as Mrs. Wages™ Lite Home Jell® Fruit Pectin, Ball® No-Sugar Needed Pectin or Sure-Jell® for Less or No-Sugar-Needed Recipes. Canning Fruits: Whereas we do not have published research work with using sucralose in the canning of fruits at home available to us, it is possible to use it for sweetening the water used to cover fruits when canning.
Regular pectin and even some no-sugar needed pectin will not gel with SPLENDA® Granular. The SPLENDA® test kitchen has made successful batches of jam and jelly using Pomona's Universal Pectin** and Mrs. Wages Lite Home Jell***. 