Brixton is a district of London, located in the borough of Lambeth in south London. The area is identified in the London Plan as one of 35 major centres in Greater London. Brixton is mainly residential with a prominent street market and substantial retail sector. The Brixton Pound is a local currency that is available as an alternative to the pound sterling. The first trading day of the Brixton Pound was on 18 September 2009 with 80 local businesses accepting the currency.
All the Brixton gear you need is available at Karmaloop. Karmaloop is an online retailer combining the latest and greatest brands of underground street and skatewear for the technology-driven generation in search of unique, one-of-a-kind products. At Karmaloop.com you will find an endless selection of baseball hats, snapbacks, beanies, shorts, pants, jackets, belts, and more.
The timeless, clean, and vintage inspired designs of Brixton's collection is hard to duplicate. All three having worked for TransWorld Media prior to creating Brixton, they started out with a great deal of insight regarding marketing, production, creativity, and advertising. Brixton started in 2004 with hats and three friends in Southern California. David Stoddard, Jason Young, and Mike Chapin wanted to create a brand that would convey their lifestyle through unique products, and more specifically hats.
This is my 3rd Brixton, and it is every bit as awesome as my other two. First, size consistency, for me, has been spot on. I own the Gain felt fedora, the Brood and now Hooligan, both in brown/khaki herringbone, all three fit very consistently. Second, the quality just simply far exceeds the price you pay. Style: Rated:5 stars! Awesome hat! Brixton makes a high quality hat that looks great. I originally ordered a XL which was too big but the Zappos exchange process was quick and easy and my large showed up the next day. I also bought the Brixton Hooligan which is a nice looking hat as well.
Write a review about a product or service associated with this BRIXTON trademark. Or, contact the owner Brixton, LLC of the BRIXTON trademark by filing a request to communicate with the Legal Correspondent for licensing, use, and/or questions related to the BRIXTON trademark. On Tuesday, August 17, 2004, a U.S. federal trademark registration was filed for BRIXTON by Brixton, LLC, Oceanside, CA 92056. The USPTO has given the BRIXTON trademark serial number of 76607365. The current federal status of this trademark filing is CONTINUED USE AND INCONTESTIBILITY ACCEPTED. The correspondent listed for BRIXTON is Christa Perez of FRIEDMAN PETERSON STROFFE & GERARD, P.C., 19800 MACARTHUR BLVD. SUITE 1100, IRVINE CA 92056. The BRIXTON trademark is filed in the category of Clothing Products.
The Brixton Pound was launched on 17 September 2009 by Transition Town Brixton. The Brixton Pound is a local currency that is available as an alternative to the pound sterling. The first trading day of the Brixton Pound was on 18 September 2009 with 80 local businesses accepting the currency.
The timeless and clean design of Brixton apparel and accessories is hard to duplicate and comes in a variety of styles that appeal to the individual in a modern, yet traditional way. At Zappos, we're proud to present the Brixton collection of distinctive hats, belts, scarves, wallets, shirts, and jackets. Brixton uses only the highest quality materials crafted to the highest standards of the manufacturing process. That's why you'll be able to enjoy your purchase for years to come.
Brixton. Brixton is a brand inspired by music, culture, and people—a clothing company featuring an eclectic mix of menswear that swings from modern designs to traditional concepts. Karmaloop is an online retailer combining the latest and greatest brands of underground street and skatewear for the technology-driven generation in search of unique, one-of-a-kind products. At Karmaloop.com you will find an endless selection of baseball hats, snapbacks, beanies, shorts, pants, jackets, belts, and more.
The timeless and clean design of the Brixton collection is hard to duplicate and comes in a variety of styles that appeal to each individual in a modern yet traditional way. Brixton carries an array of products, including sweatshirts, tees, pants, shorts, swimsuits, and, of course, hats. Karmaloop is an online retailer combining the latest and greatest brands of underground street and skatewear for the technology-driven generation in search of unique, one-of-a-kind products. At Karmaloop.com you will find an endless selection of baseball hats, snapbacks, beanies, shorts, pants, jackets, belts, and more.