Total Cost for Full Package: $450-$1,200. *The cost of IPL Photofacial may vary based on treatment area, length of treatment, amount being administered, and the geographical region where your treatment is performed.
4.4 /5 (15 Reviews). IPL Photofacial (aka fotofacial or photo facial) is like a boost of energy to your epidermis. Photofacial treatment is an intense pulsed light used to penetrate your skin on the deepest levels causing your body to produce new collagen and connective tissue, thus creating healthier and smoother skin. Most patients undergo a series of 5 to 8 half hour treatments, about 3 weeks between each treatment. After the first Photofacial treatment skin will already feel smoother. Like other laser-based procedures, IPL Photofacial’s light beam typically feels like a rubber band snapping against the skin.
IPL Photofacial Cost and Financing. updated. There are many things which may affect the cost of intense pulsed light (IPL™) therapy. The cost of IPL™ photorejuvenation can vary widely between different geographic areas, and an IPL™ photofacial may cost more than IPL™ treatment on a different area of the body. Photofacial (sometimes called FotoFacial™) treatment costs may also vary based on how many treatments are being performed.
IPL™ Photofacial Price Breakdown. The cost of a single IPL™ photorejuvenation treatment usually falls between $300 and $600, and depends on the area of the country where the procedure is performed. The cost of photorejuvenation treatment may also depend on the area of the body being treated. The cost of IPL™ photorejuvenation can vary widely between different geographic areas, and an IPL™ photofacial may cost more than IPL™ treatment on a different area of the body. Photofacial (sometimes called FotoFacial™) treatment costs may also vary based on how many treatments are being
The average cost of photofacial treatment depends on the number of treatments that an individual has done and the areas that are performed on. On average, the total cost of a single photofacial treatment is $300-$500. During your consultation, Dr. Hiatt will give you an exact price of what you can expect to pay for your photofacial treatment.
An IPL photofacial usually requires more than one treatment session to achieve desired results. The number of treatments will also affect the overall cost of the procedure. Typical protocol for an IPL photofacial may involve four to six sessions, spaced three or four weeks apart. However, this number can vary dramatically, based on the severity of skin condition getting treatment.
The cost for a photofacial varies depending on the extent of treatment necessary to achieve optimum results. Whitlock Cosmetic Center accepts PremierMedicalFinancing.com, MedicalFinancing.com, CosmetiCredit.com and United Medical Credit as financing options. A photofacial, also known as a foto facial, is a cosmetic procedure that treats hyperpigmentation or broken capillaries. The procedure is also used to promote the formation of collagen, or the protein that is found in the skin’s connective tissues that contributes to softness and elasticity.
We'll give you a rundown of some of the price ranges for IPL photofacials, including the factors that may impact the overall cost of the procedure. Size of Treatment Area. The average cost for a single IPL photofacial treatment ranges from $300 to $600, depending on the size of the area to be addressed. A full facial will run much higher than treatment on a specific area like the forehead. The number of treatments will also affect the overall cost of the procedure. Typical protocol for an IPL photofacial may involve four to six sessions, spaced three or four weeks apart. However, this number can vary dramatically, based on the severity of skin condition getting treatment.
Cost. While IPL™ photorejuvenation is generally more costly than procedures like microdermabrasion and chemical peels, it is less expensive than most cosmetic surgery and laser skin treatment. Still, the price for a single photofacial/fotofacial session can be as high as $500 or $600. The overall cost of photorejuvenation treatment will depend on the severity of the aesthetic issues involved as well as the number of treatments needed to resolve them. IPL TM photorejuvenation cost usually runs between $300 and $600 per treatment. However, the exact amount varies depending on the area of the country in which the treatment is performed.