A crewneck, also written  crew neck , is a type of collarless shirt or sweater with a round neckline that fits around the base of the wearer’s neck. The fabric that makes the neckline on a crewneck is typically ribbed and sewn onto the shirt or sweater as a separate piece. For example, a Henley shirt is a round neck collarless shirt with two to five buttons on a placket down the front. With the buttons fastened, a Henley shirt resembles a crewneck. Another common variation is the mock neck, also called a mock turtleneck.
A jumper (in American English), pinafore dress or pinafore (British English) is a sleeveless, collarless dress intended to be worn over a blouse, shirt or sweater. In British English, the term jumper describes what is called a sweater in American English. Also, in more formal British usage, a distinction is made between a pinafore dress and a pinafore. The latter, though a related garment, has an open back and is worn as an apron. In American English, a pinafore always refers to an apron.A sundress, like a jumper, is sleeveless and collarless; however, such articles are not worn over a blouse or sweater, and are of distinctly different cuts and fashions. The apron dress may be viewed as a special case of the jumper.
Outlines of shirt types. A Henley shirt is a collarless pullover shirt, characterized by a 10-centimetre-long (4 in) placket beneath the round neckline, usually having 2–5 buttons. It essentially resembles a collarless polo shirt. 
Jumper: In the UK this just refers to an garment you wear over your shirt for warmth. It doesn't have buttons, and it pulled over your head. In the US this has a completely different meaning. It is a type of girl's dress, a top, with attached shorts basically. Pullover' is indeed used in AmE. A sweater is either a cardigan or a pullover, depending on whether it zips or buttons down the front or not. If it doesn't, you have to pull it over your head (and thus pullover). Generally, though, people use the word sweater rather than pullover or cardigan.
@Marthaª: you should post your comment as an answer, because I agree: the difference between a sweater and a sweatshirt is in the method of construction. All other differences (use or purpose, sleeves or not, hooded or not, printed logo or none, etc.) are incidental. A sweatshirt is made with sweatshirt fleece, which is a heavy fabric that is finished on one side and has a soft, fluffy nap on the other.
The sweater is formed by the linking of stitches-Its shape and pattern come from the structure of the garment. If the stitches are taken away there is no form. A sweatshirt has a pattern or logo printed onto it. The pattern has no relationship to the shape of the garment-if you remove it the sweatshirt remains intact. sweatshirt is made with sweatshirt fleece, which is a heavy fabric that is finished on one side and has a soft, fluffy nap on the other.
Sweater: In the UK this is the same as a jumper, a garment you wear over your shirt, with no buttons, and is pulled over your head. In the US this is a similar item, however, a cardigan with buttons can also be called a sweater in the US. Pullover: again is a garment you wear over your shirt, pulled over your head. The meaning is the same in the US and UK, but it is a pretty uncommon word in the US. 'Pullover' is indeed used in AmE. A sweater is either a cardigan or a pullover, depending on whether it zips or buttons down the front or not. If it doesn't, you have to pull it over your head (and thus pullover). Generally, though, people use the word sweater rather than pullover or cardigan.
Traditionally they are/were referred to as sweaters, due to originally being made from a thicker sweater material, such as wool, though both terms are acceptable. Hockey jerse … ys today are typically made out of tough synthetic materials like polyester that help in keeping moisture off the players. 1 Some sweater styles go in and out of style, while other classic st…. 2  Top Manufacturers of Cute Holiday Sweater Dresses The sweater dress is a stylish clothing item that combines the cozy warmth of a knitted sweater with the elegant look and feel of a dress.