Regular maintenance is vital in order to preserve the performance and condition of your Bentley or Crewe-built Rolls-Royce. Our Authorised network of Bentley Repairers are best equipped to manage the on-going care of your vehicle. 
Basic oil changes will run you $500 annually, while yearly service will vary from $1400 to $2500 depending on what you need done. We estimated that the average cost of driving a 2005 Bentley GT 10,000 miles per year was $3200 assuming nothing broke. The cost of the maintenance on the Bentley is not that bad, but can give you a heart attack should it break outside of its warranty period. Most dealer charge over $140 an hour to work on Bentley cars and parts are rare and expensive, but more importantly almost non existent in the aftermarket world. The king of the throne Rolls Royce Phantom, which is big brother to our newly reviewed RR Ghost is just about one of the most expensive cars to maintain and takes the cake for being the most expensive one of our list. Annual Maintenance costs of $3900 and an oil change for $650.
I know the saying If your worried about the cost, its not for you and all that.....but I really just want to know out of curiosity, what is the maintenance and service cost of the Bentley Continental GT 2005 with about 55k miles on it. I don't plan on buying it, but I am curious on the costs on it. I know the saying &quot;If your worried about the cost, its not for you&quot; and all that.....but I really just want to know out of curiosity, what is the maintenance and service cost of the Bentley Continental GT 2005 with about 55k miles on it. I don&#39;t plan on buying it, but I am curious on...
Figure around $1500 every 10k miles of you have the factory do the servicing to as low as $1000 of you just do fluid and various filter changes yourself or at an independant shop. Of course at 30k or so miles there are 'major' services so around $2500 plus perhaps tires and brakes. Continental GT maintenance cost. Hi, im thinking about buyin 04-05 continental gt. anyone knows how much the maintenance cost gonna be (scheduled maintenance every year)? thanks. # 2
In advance of the Paris reveal of the new $338,625 Bentley Mulsanne Speed, the company invited us into its Crewe factory near Manchester, England, for a no-limits walk of the assembly line to see why Bentleys in general—and Mulsannes in particular—are so expensive. 
Bentley is known as a distinguished engine builder. However, there are cons to having Bentleys. Most modern Bentley models are prone to fuel injector problems. Bentleys that were manufactured from 2004 to 2008 are equipped with a fuel filter that can be easily corroded. Road salt can cause rust build-up in the outer surface of the filter.
A $300,000 Rolls Royce will always have repairs that equal a $300,000 car no matter what you bought it for, so pick your next exotic luxury car carefully and make sure to educate yourself on its cost of ownership. The king of the throne Rolls Royce Phantom, which is big brother to our newly reviewed RR Ghost is just about one of the most expensive cars to maintain and takes the cake for being the most expensive one of our list. Annual Maintenance costs of $3900 and an oil change for $650.
RE: Service and Maintenance cost of Bentley Continental GT 2005? I know the saying &quot;If your worried about the cost, its not for you&quot; and all that.....but I really just want to know out of curiosity, what is the maintenance and service cost of the Bentley Continental GT 2005 with about 55k miles on it. I don&#39;t plan on buying it, but I am curious on...