When to Leave Your Kids Home Alone. Eventually every parent is faced with the question of whether his or her child is old enough to begin staying home alone. When older children are placed in situations of independence that they can handle, it can help them learn responsibility. 1 Show your child where the first-aid kit is and how to use the items in it. 2  Prepare a snack or meal for your child in advance, preferably one that does not need to be heated. 3  Tell the child where you will be, how you can be reached, and when you will return home. 4  If possible, leave your beeper or cellular phone number.
Nothing can prepare your child to be more mature. However, if your child seems like he/she might be ready to stay home alone, there are things you can do to help prepare your child for this big step. 1  When you first leave your child home alone, leave for only a short while. 2  Run a quick errand or even consider running to a neighbor's house for a quick cup of coffe
Most experts say that by age 10 or 11, it's OK to leave a child alone for short periods of time (under an hour) during the day, provided they're not scared and you think they're mature enough to handle it. 
Legal age for kids home alone. Some states have laws governing what age you can legally leave them home, ranging from age 8 all the way to age 14. Check out the list here to see the specific laws in your state. Most states, however, do not have laws, leaving the decision up to the parent. The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone, but not all parents think it is that black and white.
The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. * Guideline ONLY. These states do not set a specific age after which a child legally can stay home alone but do provide recommendations. CARE Latchkey Kids Calling Solutions. DSC provides an easy and secure sign-up procedure (For a quick overview, please visit the registration information web page).
The official website of Erie County, Pennsylvania, recommends never leaving a child under 10 home alone. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision. 
Below are general guidelines to follow when considering the age range for leaving a child home alone. 7 & under-Should not be left alone for any period of time. This may include leaving children unattended in cars, playgrounds, and backyards. Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone
In Illinois, it's not illegal just to leave a child under the age of 14 alone at home. Child abandonment is knowingly leaving a child under the age of 13 alone without a responsible person over the age of 14 for a period of 24 hours or more while ignoring that child's mental or physical health, safety, or well-being. I live in Indiana, and find it strange they have no recommended age for home alone yet, they do have an age requirement as to when a child can be left in the care of a sibling child, and that age is 11.
No one law across Canada stipulates how old a child must be to stay home alone, but the Canada Safety Council (CSC) recommends age 10 as a minimum, and that children younger than 12 shouldn’t be left in charge of their younger siblings. “Meet your child at the end of the bus route. Practise locking and unlocking the door and calling the other parent. Do a few trial runs where you leave your child alone for 15 or 20 minutes, and gradually extend that time to a couple hours at most.”. It’s also important to have a backup plan in case things go awry.