-pexy is defined as “surgical fixation of an organ”. This procedure is also known as PPH (Procedure for Prolapse and Hemorrhoids). Stapled Hemorrhoidopexy is when you pull the tissue (hemorrhoid) into a device. You then cut the extra tissue that is protruding, and the remaining tissue of the hemorrhoid is stapled shut.
The RAR method, an extension of the HAL method, is a two-step procedure first described by Hussein 18 in 2001. The first step is the artery ligation (HAL) as described above, and the second step is a mucopexy: RAR = HAL + Mucopexy.
Two of these new methods are HAL (Hemorrhoidal Artery Ligation) 1 and stapled hemorroidopexy. 2. Both techniques have shown potential benefits for high-grade hemorrhoids, particularly with regard to the perioperative parameters and at least partially also with respect to longterm results.
616 patients (255 females) complaining of symptoms of hemorrhoids were included in the study. The hemorrhoids were suture ligated with an absorbable suture material under vision. Operating time, postoperative complications, time to return to work, and outcome of the procedure were analyzed. Follow-up was planned following discharge after 1 month, 6 months and after at least 1 year.
You may still have pain a few weeks after the procedure, which can also be controlled with painkillers. Seek medical advice if you have pain that continues for longer. After having a haemorrhoidectomy, there is around a 1 in 20 chance of the haemorrhoids returning, which is lower than with non-surgical treatments.
The STARR procedure is a stapled mucopexy suitable for partial thickness mucosal prolapse with an anterior rectocele. It is a repair where a circular staple removes a cuff of prolapsing mucosa. It has the benefit of being relatively painless, with no external incisions. Figure 2.
Transanal haemorrhoidal dearterialization (THD) has become well established for the treatment of haemorrhoids. In this study we describe a technical modification of this technique, targeted mucopexy (THD TM), and report the results for advanced
The transanal hemorrhoidal de-arterialization (THD) procedure is an effective treatment of hemorrhoidal disease. The ligation of hemorrhoidal arteries (“de-arterialization”) can provide a significant reduction of arterial blood flow to the hemorrhoidal tissues.