Come On In!  in Samoan. This is a basic introduction to the Samoan language (Gagana Samoa) that includes an English-Samoan glossary and Bible verses. This information is provided for anyone traveling to Samoa or wanting to converse with Samoan friends and relatives. I hope you find it useful. 
Diagrams of fale showing architectural parts of a traditional house in the Samoan language; from An Account of Samoan History up to 1918 by Samoan historian Teo Tuvale. The simplest types of fale are called faleo'o, which have become popular as ecofriendly and low-budget beach accommodations in local tourism. Every family complex in Samoa has a fale tele, the meeting house, big house. The site on which the house is built is called tulaga fale (place to stand).
Food. Food and cuisine is extremely important in the Samoan culture. Almost any festivity or celebration is centered around the food. They use an Umu to cook a lot of their meals. It is a traditional way to prepare food and is like the Samoan version of a barbar-que. It is an above the ground stone oven that is heating by lava rocks which are scolding hot. When cooking the food it can be put directly onto the rocks are wrapped up in banana leaves
1 • INTRODUCTION. Samoans are the residents of a chain of islands, or archipelago, in the Polynesian culture area of the south Pacific Ocean. The Samoan archipelago is politically divided into the independent nation of Western Samoa and the United States territory of American Samoa. That of American Samoa is about 59,000. Many people (an estimated 65,000) have left American Samoa and moved to the west coast of the United States. Another 20,000 now live in Hawaii. This section focuses on the Samoan way of life, or, as it is called by Western Samoans, fa'a Samoa.
The architecture of Samoa is characterised by openness, with the design mirroring the culture and life of the Samoan people who inhabit the Samoa Islands. The simplest types of fale are called faleo'o, which have become popular as ecofriendly and low-budget beach accommodations in local tourism. Every family complex in Samoa has a fale tele, the meeting house, big house. The site on which the house is built is called tulaga fale (place to stand).
Samoa is famous for its traditional tattoo. Samoans call it Pe'a. Tradition of Samoan tattoo is more than 2000 years old. According to an ancient Samoan legend the tattoo making was introduced to Samoans by Taema and Tilafaiga. They were two daughters of the Samoan king Tui Manu'a. English word Tattoo derives from Samoan „Tatau“ (meaning to hit or strike (ta) with the au (tool)). Pe'a-Samoan traditional tattoo. There is a traditional Samoans belief that the pain of the Pe’a is sort of compensation for the pain woman suffers during child birth
Fale is the Samoan word for all types of houses, from small to large. In general, traditional Samoan architecture is characterized by an oval or circular shape, with wooden posts holding up a domed roof. There are no walls. The base of the architecture is a skeleton frame. The simplest types of fale are called faleo'o, which have become popular as ecofriendly and low-budget beach accommodations in local tourism. Every family complex in Samoa has a fale tele, the meeting house, big house. The site on which the house is built is called tulaga fale (place to stand).
The traditional culture of Samoa is a communal way of life based on Fa'a Samoa, the unique socio-political culture. In Samoan culture, most activities are done together. There are 3 main parts in the Samoan culture, that is faith, family and music. The traditional living quarters, or fale (houses), contain no walls and up to 20 people may sleep on the ground in the same fale. During the day, the fale is used for chatting and relaxing. One's family is viewed as an integral part of a person's life.
In honor of this event, I thought I’d share a couple of pictures from the Library of Congress collections and from my own trip (back in time) to Samoa in 2006. Photo of a traditional Samoan house, taken by the author in 2006. A house is called a fale (pronounced fah-leh) in Samoan. The country previously known as Western Samoa (the change to just “Samoa” occurred in 1997) became independent on January 1, 1962 – although Independence Day is celebrated June 1. 