The ultimate control of homeostasis is accomplished by the nervous system (for rapid responses such as reflexes to avoid picking up a hot pot off the stove) and the endocrine system (for longer-term responses, such as maintaining the body levels of calcium, etc.). The endocrine system is the second type of extrinsic control, and involves a chemical component to the reflex. Sensors detect a change within the body and send a message to an endocrine effector (parathyroid), which makes PTH. PTH is released into the blood when blood calcium levels are low.
Balance of electrolytes within the body is also maintained by the urinary system. The urinary system is also responsible for maintaining red blood cell count within the body and the optimum pH levels in the blood. All of these functions help maintain homeostasis within the body. 7. 
Why our body needs calcium. Calcium is a mineral that is stored in the bones. Nearly all the calcium in the body is stored in bone tissue. But a small amount (around 1%) circulates dissolved in the blood and other body fluids, or is inside our cells. This is needed for. 1  Keeping bones and teeth healthy. 2  Blood clotting. 
The PTH system provides long-term, day-to-day regulation of calcium levels by many hormones working in concert. This hormonal “feedback loop” is governed by the parathyroid glands and the calcitonin secreting cells of the thyroid gland by their constant monitoring of the blood calcium levels. Special cells that reside in the thyroid gland along with thyroid hormone containing cells release another hormone, calcitonin, into the blood. Calcitonin signals osteoclasts to slow down removal of calcium from bone; this action tends to lower levels of blood calcium.
The two most important hormones for maintaining calcium levels in the body are parathyroid hormone (PTH) and 1,25(OH)2D (the active form of vitamin D). The major regulator is PTH, which is part of a negative feedback loop to maintain [Ca ++ ] ECF (see Humoral regulation). 
Calcium metabolism refers to all the movements (and how they are regulated) of calcium atoms and ions into and out of various body compartments, such as the gut, the blood plasma, the interstitial fluids which bathe the cells in the body, the intracellular fluids, and bone. 
The endocrine system is a unique and essential part of normal body function. Where the nervous system handles functions that happen quickly, like breathing and body movement, the endocrine system handles body functions that happen much slower, such as the growth of cells, organs, and metabolism. Endocrine system keeps the body's hormone and secretion levels in balance. Since there is a whole series of organs and glands that must work in tandem to maintain healthy hormone and secretion levels, when one of them doesn't function the way it's supposed to function, it puts a heavy strain on the rest of the body. 
How parathyroid hormone works. Like in the thyroid, the parathyroids have receptors (in this case calcium receptors) that detect the level of calcium in the body. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) is released when these calcium receptors (CaR) on the surface of the parathyroid glands detect low blood calcium levels. 
Hormones control various cellular activities including growth; development; reproduction; energy use and storage; and water and electrolyte balance. Both the endocrine system and the nervous system are responsible for maintaining homeostasis in the body. The endocrine system regulates vital processes in the body including growth, metabolism, and sexual development. This system is comprised of several major endocrine glands. These glands secrete hormones into the blood.