1 The anterior pituitary produces 6 important hormones: 2  Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), as its name suggests, is a tropic hormone responsible for the stimulation of the thyroid gland. 3  Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulates the adrenal cortex, the outer part of the adrenal gland, to produce its hormones. The levels of hormones in the body can be regulated by several factors. The nervous system can control hormone levels through the action of the hypothalamus and its releasing and inhibiting hormones. For example, TRH produced by the hypothalamus stimulates the anterior pituitary to produce TSH. Tropic hormones provide another level of control for the release of
A hormone is a chemical messenger produced by a cell that effects specific change in the cellular activity of other cells (target cells). Unlike exocrine glands (which produce substances such as saliva, milk, stomach acid and digestive enzymes), endocrine glands do not secrete substances into ducts (tubes). The two glands that are the most responsible for homeostasis is the thyroid and the parathyroid. The regulation of blood glucose concentration (through negative feedback) illustrates how the endocrine system maintains homeostasis by the action of antagonistic hormones.
Hormones of the Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones. 1 The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body.
The thyroid gland. The secretions of the thyroid gland affect most cells in the body. The growth and secretions of the thyroid are regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) secreted by the anterior pituitary, and this is controlled by thyroid-releasing hormone (TRH) from the hypothalamus. The thyroid is one of the largest endocrine glands. Regulation of thyroid function. Thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion are regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone TSH (Figure 3), which comes from the anterior pituitary. TSH secretion is controlled by TRH
The male testes produce male sex cells called sperm. The hypothalamus and the pituitary gland in the brain control the production of sperm and male sex hormones in the testes. Negative feedback systems ensure that the number of sperm cells and constant levels of testosterone are maintained. 
The Pituitary Gland. The pituitary is the ‘master’ endocrine gland (about the size of a pea) which is controlled by the hypothalamus to release a variety of hormones which modify the state of physiology and our basic motivations. The anterior pituitary secretes 9 different important hormones: 1  Growth hormone (also referred to as 'Human Growth Hormone', 'HGH' or 'GH' or somatotropin). 2  Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). 3  Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). 4  Vasopressin. 5  Oxytocin. 6  Luteinizing hormone (LH).
The thyroid gland is under the control of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) from the pituitary. It secretes thyroxine (T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3). Iodine is essential for the synthesis of thyroid hormones. T 4 is probably converted to T 3 in peripheral tissues. Regulation of thyroid function. Thyroid hormone synthesis and secretion are regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone TSH (Figure 3), which comes from the anterior pituitary. TSH secretion is controlled by TRH from the hypothalamus.
The anterior pituitary (or adenohypophysis) is a lobe of the gland that regulates several physiological processes (including stress, growth, reproduction, and lactation). The intermediate lobe synthesizes and secretes melanocyte-stimulating hormone. Hormones secreted from the pituitary gland help control: growth, blood pressure, certain functions of the sex organs, thyroid glands and metabolism as well as some aspects of pregnancy, childbirth, nursing, water/salt concentration and the kidneys, temperature regulation and pain relief.
The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them. The two glands that are the most responsible for homeostasis is the thyroid and the parathyroid. The regulation of blood glucose concentration (through negative feedback) illustrates how the endocrine system maintains homeostasis by the action of antagonistic hormones.