Start with beef tenderloin steaks cut 3/4 inch to 1 inch thick (1 inch for grilling). Trim fat from steaks. Season as desired. Timings below are based on meat removed directly from the refrigerator. Step 2: Roast or grill the tenderloin. Roast: Browning the tenderloin first is optional, but it does caramelize the outside and lock in the juices. In a large skillet heat olive oil over medium-high heat.
Turn the broiler on and heat the pan you will be cooking the steaks on. Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes. 
1 For cuts that are 1-1/2 inches thick, position the broiler rack so the steak will be 4 to 5 inches from the heat. 2  Preheat the broiler. 3  Place the beef filet mignon on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. 1 Place the beef filet mignon on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. 2  Using the following timings, broil the meat, turning once halfway through the broiling time: 3  For a 1-inch filet cut, broil 12 to 14 minutes for medium rare (145 degrees F) or 15 to 18 minutes for medium (160 degrees F).
1 Season filets with kosher salt and pepper. 2  Heat an oven-proof pan over medium-high heat for 5 minutes. 3  Add oil and heat briefly. 4  Sear filets in oil on one side for 4-5 minutes. 5  Turn them over, place the pan in the oven, and roast to desired doneness. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 425 degrees. 2  Season filets with kosher salt and pepper. 3  Heat an oven-proof pan over medium-high heat for 5 minutes. 4  Add oil and heat briefly. 5
Place meat on grill rack over heat. Cover the grill.) Remove steaks from grill; cover and let stand for 5 minutes. For more tenderloin steak recipes, see: Grilled Steak and Peppers Grilled Beef Fillet with Portobello Relish Beef Tenderloins with Wine Sauce Try filet mignon! Our best filet mignon cooking tips. Step 2: Roast or grill the tenderloin. Roast: Browning the tenderloin first is optional, but it does caramelize the outside and lock in the juices. In a large skillet heat olive oil over medium-high heat.
How to Broil or Bake Filet Mignon. 1  For cuts that are less than 1-1/2 inches thick, position the broiler rack so the steak will be 3 to 4 inches from the heat. 2  For cuts that are 1-1/2 inches thick, position the broiler rack so the steak will be 4 to 5 inches from the heat. 3  Preheat the broiler. 1 Place the beef filet mignon on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. 2  Using the following timings, broil the meat, turning once halfway through the broiling time: 3  For a 1-inch filet cut, broil 12 to 14 minutes for medium rare (145 degrees F) or 15 to 18 minutes for medium (160 degrees F).
In an oven safe pan (I love my 10 inch cast iron) over medium high heat melt 1 T of butter or use oil. When hot, sear both sides of the filets for 2-3 minutes. I start with “good side up” then sear, flip, sear and final flip before going to the oven. Transfer to your preheated oven. Preheat oven to 400 degrees convection (or 425 regular oven). Start with 1 1/2 thick filets about 8 oz each and trimmed well. Remove any silver skin. Season all sides with 7:2:2 season. If you don’t have that, use a mixture of 1 T kosher salt, 1 t course pepper and 1 t of granulated garlic powder.
1 Let the steak sear for 1 minute. 2  Place the entire pan in the oven for about 5 minutes. 3  Poke the fleshy lump at the base of your palm, where it intersects with your thumb. 1 Remove the steaks from the pan and place to the side, in a warm location, on a plate. 2  They will continue to (carryover) cook, on their own. 3  This should bring them up to a nice medium-rare, while also allowing the muscle to relax, again, and the juices to settle within the meat.
Add 1 tablespoon butter and reduce heat to medium. (Or spray cool skillet with nonstick cooking spray before heating; continue as directed.) Cook, uncovered, for 7 to 9 minutes for 3/4-inch steaks or 10 to 13 minutes for 1-inch steaks to desired doneness (145°F for medium rare and 160°F for medium). Step 2: Roast or grill the tenderloin. Roast: Browning the tenderloin first is optional, but it does caramelize the outside and lock in the juices. In a large skillet heat olive oil over medium-high heat.