The process of becoming a licensed professional in the real estate industry differs from state to state and country to country. Most real estate agents and brokers are required to have a certain number of hours of pre-licensing education – and, in some cases, experience – to become fully licensed.
Continue reading to learn how to become a real estate agent in the state of Illinois! 1. First, you must decide if you want to become an Illinois leasing agent, or an Illinois broker. 1  Leasing agents help people who want to rent or lease an apartment. 2  Remember that the state of Illinois is no longer issuing a salesperson license.
Report Abuse. You'll have to find out what your state requires but most likely you'll need to take real estate classes and then take a license exam. Also, you should know that if you want to make money as a real estate agent you have to work it. You can't do it part time or as a hobby and make money.
2. Choose a Brokerage A real estate brokerage is the agency or office from which real estate agents and brokers work. Since working with a broker is a requirement in order to practice as a real estate agent, you will need to contact a broker before graduating from your training course.
Consider getting your college degree. To be a real estate agent, you don't need a degree from a four-year university, keyword there being need. However, it's important to know that because degrees are becoming more and more common, it's good to have one to cover your bases.
Whether you're about to get your real estate license, or you've begun your career as a new real estate agent, this plan of action will help you to do the right ...
The test isn't what you need for success when becoming a real estate agent. You need it for the license, but you need a lot more to make this business a success. Get a successful agent or broker for a mentor, or offer to assist them in their deals.
· just now. Report Abuse. You'll have to find out what your state requires but most likely you'll need to take real estate classes and then take a license exam. Also, you should know that if you want to make money as a real estate agent you have to work it. You can't do it part time or as a hobby and make money.