In normal cells, hundreds of genes intricately control the process of cell division. Normal growth requires a balance between the activity of those genes that promote cell proliferation and those that suppress it. It also relies on the activities of genes that signal when damaged cells should undergo apoptosis. Cancer is unchecked cell growth. Mutations in genes can cause cancer by accelerating cell division rates or inhibiting normal controls on the system, such as cell cycle arrest or programmed cell death. As a mass of cancerous cells grows, it can develop into a tumor
Genes that speed up cell division are called oncogene s. Others that slow down cell division, or cause cells to die at the right time, are called tumor suppressor genes. Certain changes (mutations) in DNA that “turn on” oncogenes or “turn off” tumor suppressor genes can cause normal breast cells to become cancerous. Many risk factors can increase your chance of developing breast cancer, but it is not yet known exactly how some of these risk factors cause
Cancer is a strange disease in that it is the body's own cells doing the damage. Normal cells have what is known as cell growth inhibition. This means the cells don't overcrow … d each other and the cells are able to perform their function. Unlike these normal cells, cancer cells just continue to grow and divide out of control and don't die when they're supposed to. Another way of putting it is that normal cells sustain damage or alteration to their DNA and somehow promote themselves to become stem cells.
Oncogenes. Oncogenes cause cells to grow out of control. They promote cancer cell growth. Oncogenes are damaged versions of normal genes called proto-oncogenes proto-oncogenesA normal gene involved in the control of cell growth and division that can mutate (change) and become an oncogene. Mutations can be inherited or caused by exposure to a carcinogen (a substance that causes cancer) in the environment. . 
Just an Answers enthusiast! Cancer happens when cells that are not normal grow and spread very fast. Normal body cells grow and divide and know to stop growing. Over time, they also die. Unlike these normal cells, cancer cells just continue to grow and divide out of control and don't die when they're supposed to. Another way of putting it is that normal cells sustain damage or alteration to their DNA and somehow promote themselves to become stem cells.
Genes that keep cell growth in check or cause cells to die at the right time are called tumor suppressor genes. Cancers can be caused by DNA changes that turn on oncogenes or turn off tumor suppressor genes. Changes in several different genes are usually needed for a cell to become cancerous. Ultraviolet (UV) rays are clearly a major cause of many melanomas. UV rays can damage the DNA in skin cells. Sometimes this damage affects certain genes that control how skin cells grow and divide. 
When this happens, they become oncogenes, and, thus, cells have a higher chance to divide excessively and uncontrollably. The chance of cancer cannot be reduced by removing proto-oncogenes from the genome, as they are critical for growth, repair and homeostasis of the body. 
Cancer is caused by changes (mutations) to the DNA within cells. The DNA inside a cell is packaged into a large number of individual genes, each of which contains a set of instructions telling the cell what functions to perform, as well as how to grow and divide. Errors in the instructions can cause the cell to stop its normal function and may allow a cell to become cancerous. 1 Fail to stop uncontrolled cell growth. 2  Normal cells know when to stop growing so that you have just the right number of each type of cell. 3  Cancer cells lose the controls (tumor suppressor genes) that tell them when to stop growing.
If anything goes wrong during this complicated process, a cell may become cancerous. A cancer cell is a cell that grows out of control. Unlike normal cells, cancer cells ignore signals to stop dividing, to specialize, or to die and be shed. Growing in an uncontrollable manner and unable to recognize its own natural boundary, the cancer cells may spread to areas of the body where they do not belong. 