However sometimes in 220 volt applicatio … ns with three wires both  the black and the white are the hot wire and the bare copper is the  ground, this happens when a contractor does not use the properly  colour coded wire for 220 volt applications.    When in doubt always use a volt meter to test each wire.
black wire is hot wire .And the white is the common or white is ground.   Depends on what your talking about in an outlet or car battery. In a outlet the ground wire … is green or bare copper. neutral is red and hot is black (I remember it by hot can kill you so black is death) if I am not mistaken.
It is easy to confuse common with the neutral wire, and in many cases this is true. A ceiling fan often has separate black and blue wires for the fan and light with the white wire, or neutral, being common to both. But common can also apply to the hot wire, as in the hot feed TO a 3 way switch or the switch leg FROM a 3 way switch to a fixture.
The common wire in a 120 vac system would be the neutral, the term line is used for incoming power to a device. Line can be made of two ungrounded conductors (hots) or one ung … rounded conductor and one grounded conductor(neutral).
Best Answer: The black is hot, the white is neutral. the white is common the black isn't. also if you have a bare ground, it is a common ground, The reason it's called common is the breaker box end of all the white wires goes to a common neutral bar in the box. The black wires go to specific breakers.
The common wire will connect from the controller to one lead from each of the valve solenoids. A separate colored wire will connect from the controller to each of the remaining leads in the solenoid on each valve. Remember it does not matter which of the two wires from the solenoid is chosen.
If it is in a house generally black wires are hot and white wires are neutral (common). The neutral and ground wires are tied together in the main panel. With that sai … d if you put 1 lead of your meter (set on AC voltage) on a black wire and the other lead to ground and you get 120 vac that wire is hot.
The most common wire color code is black. Black wires are always used for hot wires and may feed a switch or outlet. Most important, Black Wires are never used as a Neutral or Ground connection. Red wires are also used for hot wires or switch legs.