A concrete patio costs less than patios made of stone, brick, or tile. The simple truth is that patios made of natural materials are usually higher priced and require more intensive labor to install. Some concrete contractors estimate that a stamped concrete patio costs one-third less than the cost of other materials. 
So, is a deck cheaper than a patio? Overall, a patio comprised of large pavers in a simple pattern will offer some savings over a deck built of wood or composite material. Of course, there's no rule that you can't have a deck and a patio. They're both great spaces for airy entertaining. Patios are flat, ground-level structures that can be made of a variety of materials, ranging from stamped concrete to laid brick pavers. The cost of patio supplies will vary, depending on the materials selected.
Concrete Patio Cover-Up. The concrete pad creates a functional patio, but over time can become stained, cracked, or just plain boring. Give your space a fresh look with a new layer of pavers. Save Item. Instructions. An old standby, the concrete pad creates a functional patio, but over time yours may have become stained, cracked, or just plain boring. Wait—don’t pull out a jackhammer just yet! Consider this less jarring alternative: Lay pavers over the existing concrete.
Concrete is in fact the most used material for construction in the world and has been in use since the age of the Roman Empire. Concrete is a mixture of aggregate (sand and gravel) combined with water and cement. Depending on the ratio of these parts the concrete can be stronger or weaker. Concrete hardens in a process known as hydration which is caused by the reaction between water and cement. Adding too much water can weaken the concrete. For most deck projects it is practical to buy bags of premixed concrete that are prepared by adding water and mixing. You can use a wheelbarrow and mix with a hoe to a consistency that is able to move and fill voids but is not too wet and soupy. 
Determine where you want to construct a concrete patio, how large it will be, and its exact dimensions. The size of the patio determines the amount of concrete required and whether you will need a mixer. If the patio is too large in area, it might not be an easy DIY job. The location is also important. 1 If mixing by hand, you can put the concrete mix into a mortar tub or a wheelbarrow. 2  Mix with a shovel or a hoe. 3  Make sure that when mixing concrete by hand you wear gloves and protective eye wear. 4  If using a mixer, make sure you can move the mixer into the area where you are building the patio.
Concrete Patio. Despite stiff competition from wood decks, the concrete patio is gaining in popularity as an essential element in today's backyards. According to a survey conducted by the National Association of Home Builders in 2012, concrete is the most popular patio material in the country. For people with existing concrete patios, we also tell you about ways to give your old patio a decorative makeover by resurfacing, staining or engraving. Despite stiff competition from wood decks, the concrete patio is gaining in popularity as an essential element in today's backyards.
1 These roof deck pavers work well where concrete deck tiles are preferred and where weight is an issue, or maybe you're just looking for DekTek's rich colors and elegant look. 2  DekTek concrete roof-deck tiles are easy to install when building or remodeling your beautiful rooftop deck. 1 DekTek Tile is an elegant, new, and innovative precast concrete decking material that is especially designed for elevated decks and roof decks. 2  DekTek Tiles are custom-poured, high-strength concrete deck tiles that support more than 800 lbs per tile. 3  The concrete pavers are 1 thick and weigh approximately 12 lbs
1 DekTek roof tiles are a lightweight alternative concrete decking material for rooftop decks. 2  These roof deck pavers work well where concrete deck tiles are preferred and where weight is an issue, or maybe you're just looking for DekTek's rich colors and elegant look. 1 DekTek Tile is an elegant, new, and innovative precast concrete decking material that is especially designed for elevated decks and roof decks. 2  DekTek Tiles are custom-poured, high-strength concrete deck tiles that support more than 800 lbs per tile. 3  The concrete pavers are 1 thick and weigh approximately 12 lbs