Owners equity is the book value of company assets owned outright by shareholders. On the balance sheet, owners equity includes contributed capital and retained earnings. Increasing owner value is often cited as the highest level objective for profit-making companies. The importance of owner's equity (Net worth). In the Balance Sheet example below, for instance, a company's Balance Sheet assets are reported as $22,075,000 and its liabilities as $8,938,000, while owner's equity is the difference between these two numbers, $13,137,000.
Sometimes net worth is called shareholder's equity, if the company is owned by shareholders. Shareholders are sometimes called stockholders and they are the owners of the company's equity. Net worth is very important to them. For individuals, equity in a house is what you own, free and clear of the mortgage holder.
The ownership interests of the shareholders in a corporation are divided into units called stock, shares, or shares of stock. The rules governing corporations along with the advantages and disadvantages apply equally to corporations owned by one or more than one shareholder. 
1 Partnership: A partnership is a business owned by two or more people. 2  In most forms of partnerships, each partner has unlimited liability for the debts incurred by the business. 3  The three most prevalent types of for-profit partnerships are general partnerships, limited partnerships, and limited liability partnerships. 
is a business that is a separate legal entity whose owners are called shareholders or stockholders. These owners have limited liability because the business is legally responsible for its own actions and debts. 
DEFINITION of 'Wholly Owned Subsidiary'. A company whose common stock is 100% owned by another company, called the parent company. A company can become a wholly owned subsidiary through acquisition by the parent company or spin off from the parent company. In contrast, a regular subsidiary is 51 to 99% owned by the parent company
Shareholders. A corporation's shareholders have an ownership interest in the company, by having money invested in the corporation. A share is an apportioned ownership interest in the corporation, and the value of a single share can range from less than a 1% interest in the corporation, to 100%.
Owner's equity (or owners equity, or stockholder's equity, net worth, or book value of a company) is the ownership interest of shareholders in the assets of a corporation. Owner's equity, that is, represents what the owners own outright. The importance of owner's equity (Net worth). In the Balance Sheet example below, for instance, a company's Balance Sheet assets are reported as $22,075,000 and its liabilities as $8,938,000, while owner's equity is the difference between these two numbers, $13,137,000.
A shareholder or stockholder is an individual or institution (including a corporation) that legally owns a share of stock in a public or private corporation. Shareholders are the owners of a limited company. 
Annual returns. In many ways a company is similar to a sole trader or partnership, except that it exists as a separate legal entity from the owners (who are called shareholders). Advantages of a company include 1  : it is a separate legal entity from the owners; 2  you can own property in the name of the company; 3  there is usually limited liability for the shareholders (unless they have given a personal guarantee); 4  you may be able to take advantage of tax minimisation schemes (legal ones, of course!);