Introduction. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a method of pain relief that can help some people with long-term painful conditions. A TENS machine is a small, battery-operated device that has leads connected to electrodes. You attach the electrodes to your skin using self-adhesive pads
TENS stands for (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation). which are predominately used for nerve related pain conditions (acute and chronic conditions). TENS machines works by sending stimulating pulses across the surface of the skin and along the nerve strands. 
TENS Units and TENS Devices. A Tens Unit, or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation machine, can help back and neck pain that may be caused by trauma or continual strain. The body responds to such pain or injury with muscle guarding, an attempt to immobilize the painful area by tightening the muscles surrounding the injury. 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. TENS, by definition, covers the complete range of transcutaneously applied currents used for nerve excitation although the term is often used with a more restrictive intent, namely to describe the kind of pulses produced by portable stimulators used to treat pain.
TENS, or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, is the use of electric stimulation with the help of a machine in order to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. A TENS unit (or T.E.N.S unit) is a portable machine that is used to relieve pain. The unit is usually used by connecting two or more electrodes to the skin. TENS units are very commonly used as a non-invasive way of electric stimulation for pain relief from acute back problems and chronic back pain. By using the right amount of electric stimulation, substantial pain relief can be achieved
TENS, or transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation, is a back pain treatment that uses low voltage electric current to relieve pain. TENS is typically done with a TENS unit, a small battery-operated device. The device can be hooked to a belt and is connected to two electrodes. There is little research to support how -- or even if -- TENS really works. Its use dates back to the 1960s with the introduction of the gate control theory of pain. According to the theory, stimulating nerves closes a gate mechanism in the spinal cord, and that can help eliminate the sensation of pain.
A TENS unit, better known as a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation unit, delivers very mild electric signals at a safe level into areas that are experiencing pain. This treatment is becoming growingly popular across the United States and even globally. 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a therapy that uses low-voltage electrical current for pain relief. You do TENS with a small, battery-powered machine about the size of a pocket radio. Usually, you connect two electrodes (wires that conduct electrical current) from the machine to your skin.
A transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) unit is a device that sends small electrical currents to targeted body parts. These currents are used to relieve pain. Some TENS units are designed for use in a hospital or healthcare facility. 