The gastro-intestinal tract of mammals consists of four main layers, the mucosa, submucosa, muscularis and serosa. The innermost of these layers, the mucosa can be divided into the epithelium, lamina propria, and muscularis mucosa. The epithelial lining may be protective, secretory, and/or absorptive in function.
1 Surrounding the mucosa is the submucosa layer of the stomach. 2  The submucosa is made up of various connective tissues, blood vessels, and nerves. 3  Connective tissues support the tissues of the mucosa and connect it to the muscularis layer.
The submucosa is the next layer toward the outside and contains the submucosal glands. These large purple-staining glands produce mucus which lubricates the esophagus. A layer of loose connective tissue is found external to the glands (orangish in color).
Most of the tissue in the digestive tract itself has four layers. These layers are called the mucosa, the submucosa, muscularis externa, and the serosa. The layer in the innermost part of the digestive tract is called the mucosa.
Beneath the muscularis mucosa is a layer of rather dense connective tissue containing blood and lymphatic vessels, multicellular glands and a plexus of unmyelinated nerve fibers called Meissner's or the submucosal plexus. In addition lymph nodes may be found in this layer.
The mucosa is composed of three components (inner to outer): a non-keratinizing stratified squamous epithelium, a lamina propria and the muscularis muscosa. The submucosa is composed of loose connective tissue, blood vessels, lymphatics, lymphoid follicles, the meissner plexus of nerves and submucosal glands.
The adventitia is the connective tissue fascia layer that surrounds the esophagus (1). The wall of the esophagus is composed of four layers (inner to outer): mucosa, submucosa, muscularis propria and adventitia, reflecting the general structural organization of the entire gastrointestinal tract.
The next layer after the mucosa is called the submucosa. This layer is a thick layer of loose connective tissue. Although this layer does not have any sub-layers, it does have blood vessels, vessels belonging to the lymphatic system, and nerves, some of which control digestion.