An element is a pure substance that is made from a single type of atom. Elements are the building blocks for all the rest of the matter in the world. Examples of elements include iron, oxygen, hydrogen, gold, and helium. Atomic Number. An important number in an element is the atomic number. 
An element is a substance that cannot be decomposed into simpler substances. This was the first useful definition of element, because it allowed elements to be distinguished from other substances experimentally. Vocabulary allotrope atomic number atomic weight atoms Dalton's atomic theory isotope mixture nucleus substance An element is a type of matter composed of atoms that all have exactly the same positive charge on their nuclei. In other words, all atoms of an element have the same atomic number. Vocabulary. allotrope atomic number atomic weight atoms Dalton's atomic theory isotope mixture nucleus substance
Answer: A chemical element, or an element, is a material which cannot be broken down or changed into another substance using chemical means. Elements may be thought of as the basic chemical building blocks of matter. 
Iron is the most abundant element (by mass) making up the Earth, while oxygen is the most common element in the crust of the earth. Chemical elements constitute approximately 15% of the matter in the universe: the remainder is dark matter, the composition of it is unknown, but it is not composed of chemical elements. The atomic number of an element is equal to the number of protons in each atom, and defines the element. For example, all carbon atoms contain 6 protons in their atomic nucleus; so the atomic number of carbon is 6.
An element is a chemical substance that cannot be broken-down into any simpler substances by chemical reactions. It consists of only one type of atom, though the atoms of an element may, or may not, join together to form molecules (that depends on the particular element and so the structure of its atoms). The main classifications of matter include the categories element and compound, either of which may also be called a substance (which is a less specific term), and mixture-of which there are also many sub-categories.
Organic chemistry is the study of compounds that contain the element carbon. This is a wide ranging topic that overlaps with other sciences like biochemistry, medicine, and materials science. Organic chemists study the properties, structure, and chemical reactions of organic compounds. 
An element is a substance consisting of atoms which all have the same number of protons-i.e. the same atomic number. Elements are chemically the simplest substances and hence cannot be broken down using chemical methods. Elements can only be changed into other elements using nuclear methods. Although an element's atoms must all have the same number of protons, they can have different numbers of neutrons and hence different masses.
The mass number of an element, A, is the number of nucleons (protons and neutrons) in the atomic nucleus. Different isotopes of a given element are distinguished by their mass numbers, which are conventionally written as a superscript on the left hand side of the atomic symbol (e.g., 238 U). The atomic number of an element is equal to the number of protons in each atom, and defines the element. For example, all carbon atoms contain 6 protons in their atomic nucleus; so the atomic number of carbon is 6.
A chemical element or element is a chemical substance consisting of atoms having the same number of protons in their atomic nuclei (i.e. the same atomic number, Z). The atomic number of an element is equal to the number of protons in each atom, and defines the element. For example, all carbon atoms contain 6 protons in their atomic nucleus; so the atomic number of carbon is 6.