An alternative explanation for the etymology of the What am I, chopped liver? expression is that chopped liver was traditionally served as a side dish rather than a main course. The phrase, therefore may have originally meant to express a feeling of being overlooked, as a side dish.. According to the Phrase Finder, chopped liver is always served as a side dish, never as a main dish. It therefore makes a good metaphor for someone who's being treated as unimportant or dispensable.
An alternate explanation for the etymology of the What am I, chopped liver? expression is that chopped liver was traditionally served as a side dish rather than a main course. You can find the what am I, chopped liver expression in a play(1949) by Joey Adams, famous Jewish comedian. I have no doubt it existed in Borscht Belt comedian's routines earlier than that.
Wikipedia has a page for Chopped Liver, which also explains the origin of it as an expression. Since eating chopped liver may not be appreciated by everyone, the Jewish English expression What am I, chopped liver?, signifies frustration or anger at being ignored on a social level. According to the Phrase Finder, chopped liver is always served as a side dish, never as a main dish. It therefore makes a good metaphor for someone who's being treated as unimportant or dispensable.
Chopped liver with egg. Chopped liver is a spread popular in Jewish cuisine but also found in the traditional local cuisine of Berlin, Germany. It is often made by sauteing sautéing or broiling liver and, onions adding-hard boiled, eggs salt and, pepper and grinding that. mixture A chopped liver meal. Chopped liver is high in protein but also high in fat and cholesterol. Thus, low fat, mock, and vegetarian versions of chopped liver exist that are frequently made of a combination or base of peas, string beans, eggplant, or mushrooms.
An alternate explanation for the etymology of the What am I, chopped liver? expression is that chopped liver was traditionally served as a side dish rather than a main course. The phrase, therefore may have originally meant to express a feeling of being overlooked, as a side dish.. Being that chopped liver was always considered a side dish and not a main course, the phrase is used to express hurt and amazement when a person feels he has been overlooked and treated just like
Jewish and Israeli Foods. Chopped liver Chopped liver is a spread popular in Jewish cuisine. It is often made by saut eing liver and onions in schmaltz (i.e., rendered animal fat); adding hard-boiled eggs, salt and pepper to the saut ed liver and onions, and grinding that mixture. 
Regardless of the origin, the expression What am I, chopped liver? is deeply embedded in American culture (at least for those older than maybe 40, due to its frequent use by television comedians in the latter half of the 20th Century), and it has taken a life of its own. According to the Phrase Finder, chopped liver is always served as a side dish, never as a main dish. It therefore makes a good metaphor for someone who's being treated as unimportant or dispensable.
Chopped liver is a spread popular in Jewish cuisine but also found in the traditional local cuisine of Berlin, Germany. A chopped liver meal. Chopped liver is high in protein but also high in fat and cholesterol. Thus, low fat, mock, and vegetarian versions of chopped liver exist that are frequently made of a combination or base of peas, string beans, eggplant, or mushrooms.
A rhetorical question used by a person who feels they are being given less attention or consideration than someone else. The origin of this phrase is not really clear. I have, however, heard of two theories that may indicate how this expression came to be. The first is that liver is not always viewed on the same level as others foods. For example, if a person is cooking a chicken, they'll oftentimes throwaway the giblets, you know, like the liver or gizzard.
An alternate explanation for the etymology of the What am I, chopped liver? expression is that chopped liver was traditionally served as a side dish rather than a main course. The phrase, therefore may have originally meant to express a feeling of being overlooked, as a side dish.. Because of its unusual taste and appearance, it is an acquired taste and not a favorite or comfort food with everyone at the dinner table. This has given rise to the popular Jewish-American expression What am I, chopped liver?, signifying frustration or anger at being ignored on a social level.