Mucus is a slippery substance that lubricates and protects the linings of the airways, digestive system, reproductive system, and other organs and tissues. In people with cystic fibrosis, the body produces mucus that is abnormally thick and sticky. This abnormal mucus can clog the airways, leading to severe problems with breathing and bacterial infections in the lungs. These infections cause chronic coughing, wheezing, and inflammation
As a result, cells that line the passageways of the lungs, pancreas, and other organs produce mucus that is unusually thick and sticky. This mucus clogs the airways and various ducts, causing the characteristic signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis. In people with cystic fibrosis, the body produces mucus that is abnormally thick and sticky. This abnormal mucus can clog the airways, leading to severe problems with breathing and bacterial infections in the lungs.
Cystic fibrosis (SIS-tik fi-BRO-sis), or CF, is an inherited disease of the secretory (see-KREH-tor-ee) glands. Secretory glands include glands that make mucus and sweat. Inherited means the disease is passed from parents to children through genes. Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease which causes mucus in the lungs to be more sticky than normal, leading to frequent lung infections and lung damage. Pneumococcus is a type of bacteria that can cause infection throughout the body, including in the urine, blood stream, fluid around the brain and in the lung
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-threatening genetic disease. A child with CF has a faulty gene that affects the movement of sodium chloride (salt) in and out of certain cells. The result is thick, heavy, sticky mucus; salty sweat; and thickened digestive juices. Still, cystic fibrosis is the most common life-shortening genetic disease among people of Northern European descent. Other symptoms include salty skin, a big appetite with no weight gain, and large, greasy stools.
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited disease characterized by the buildup of thick, sticky mucus that can damage many of the body's organs. The disorder's most common signs and symptoms include progressive damage to the respiratory system and chronic digestive system problems. In people with cystic fibrosis, the body produces mucus that is abnormally thick and sticky. This abnormal mucus can clog the airways, leading to severe problems with breathing and bacterial infections in the lungs.
Overview. Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a multisystemic, autosomal recessive disorder that predominantly affects infants, children, and young adults. CF is the most common life-limiting genetic disorder in whites, with an incidence of 1 case per 3200-3300 newborns in the United States. See the cystic fibrosis images below. 
The parts of the body most affected by cystic fibrosis are the sweat glands, respiratory system, digestive system and reproductive system. Cystic fibrosis does not, however, effect the brain and nervous system. A child’s ability to learn is not altered by having cystic fibrosis. 
CF is an autosomal recessive disorder. It is caused by the presence of mutations in both copies of the gene for the protein cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Those with a single working copy are carriers and otherwise mostly normal. CF is caused by a mutation in the gene cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). The most common mutation, δF508, is a deletion (δ signifying deletion) of three nucleotides that results in a loss of the amino acid phenylalanine (F) at the 508th position on the protein.
People with cystic fibrosis have a higher than normal level of salt in their sweat. Parents often can taste the salt when they kiss their children. Most of the other signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis affect the respiratory system or the digestive system. However, adults with cystic fibrosis are more likely to have atypical symptoms, such as pancreatitis, diabetes and infertility. When to see a doctor. If you or your child has symptoms of cystic fibrosis — or if someone in your family has cystic fibrosis — talk with your doctor about testing for the disease. Seek immediate medical care if you or your child has difficulty breathing.