This is a list of people associated with the modern Switzerland and the Old Swiss Confederacy. Regardless of ethnicity or emigration, the list includes famous natives of Switzerland and its predecessor states as well as people who were born elsewhere but spent most of their active life in Switzerland. For more information see the articles Swiss people and Demographics of Switzerland. 
Who is a famous person from Switzerland? Some famous people who are from Switzerland include Kat Graham,  Marthe Keller, Carlos Leal, and Christianne Hirt. Others include  Thomas Hardmeier and Bruno Todeschini.
3) Swiss Cheese. This beautiful country is world famous for producing a large variety of cheese. ‘Cheese with wine’ is a favourite among the Swiss people with different type of cheese for white and red wine. Fondue is the most famous Swiss cheese variety which is generally enjoyed in winter. 
Switzerland is famous for: - Being over 700 years old. - Having 4 national languages (French, Italian, Swiss German and Romansh). - Being a federation of 26 independent cantons, all with their own constitution and government. Some famous people who are from Switzerland include Kat Graham,  Marthe Keller, Carlos Leal, and Christianne Hirt. Others include  Thomas Hardmeier and Bruno Todeschini.
Switzerland is well-known for the cuisine it produces, in particular cheese and chocolate. The country's food is diverse and seasonal, carrying influences from Italy, France and Germany. Traditional Swiss food is rich, in both flavor and calories, and rarely uses herbs and spices. Cheese and fondue go hand in hand, but Swiss cuisine has several fondue variations. Swiss cheese, made up of raw milk, is perhaps the most famous cheese to come out of the country. Other famous cheeses are still produced by hand and include Gruyere, Gruyère, Emmentaler tete Tête, De moine Sbrinz. and vacherin
Swiss-made:souvenirs and luxury goods [edit]. Switzerland is famous for a few key goods: watches, chocolate, cheese, and Swiss Army knives. 1  Watches-Switzerland is the watch-making capital of the world, and Swiss Made on a watch face has long been a mark of quality. 
Alps-. Swiss Alps, also known as Central Alps, is the region of Alpine mountain ranges that lie in Switzerland. Around 65% of Switzerland is covered by Alps, one of the most beautiful mountain ranges. No doubt, Switzerland is the place where one can find the highest peaks and glaciers. Skiing and hiking are way of Swiss life. 4. Swiss Chocolate-. If you tell me you don’t like Swiss chocolate, I would seriously believe you haven’t tasted it yet. Switzerland is famous for the art of chocolate making. They have world’s best milk chocolate made of finest milk and cream.
Swiss cheese is a generic name for several related varieties of cheese. It is an American version of the Swiss Emmental and is known for being shiny, pale yellow. While it has a firmer texture than baby Swiss, its flavour is mild, sweet and nut-like. It has a savory, but not very sharp taste. Some types of Swiss cheese have a distinctive appearanc
Food, ingredients and the way to prepare it varies greatly all over the country. Generally speaking, basic food items include a huge selection of bread (white, whole wheat etc.), dairy products such as milk, yogurt, butter and-of course-a great variety of the world famous Swiss cheese. Also important are vegetables including beans, carrots, cauliflower, potatoes, spinach etc. Finally, there are a lot of sweets, including the second type of food that Switzerland is world famous for: Swiss chocolate. In Switzerland, breakfast typically includes bread, butter or margarine, marmalade or honey, maybe some cheese or cereals, plus milk, cold or hot chocolate, tea or coffee.