Visitors sailing via a ferry to Haida Gwaii will arrive in Skidegate Village, on the southeast tip of Graham Island, the main point-of-entry to Haida Gwaii. The schedule of sailings vary per season. British Columbia, Canada. Think of the traveling experience to Haida Gwaii, (formerly Queen Charlotte Islands), as a big west coast scenic tour, because that is what it is. Whether by sea or by air the scenery is spell binding
When you've reached the edge of your world, ours begins. Visit Haida Gwaii and experience a world of intrigue, a world of adventure and a world of undeniable breathtaking beauty. Haida Gwaii is made up of ancient temperate rainforests, quaint villages, secluded inlets, and beaches that stretch as far as the eye can see. Connector service is available in Prince Rupert for the Inside Passage route to Port Hardy on Vancouver Island or north with Alaska's Marine Ferry System. Personal motor vessels can be accommodated throughout the islands.
The Haida Gwaii (Islands of the People) [1] , previously known as the Queen Charlotte Islands, are in British Columbia, Canada. Though the archipelago comprises over 150 islands, the two largest, Graham and Moresby, dominate the visitor's itinerary. 
Haida Gwaii is an archipelago of 138 islands located approximately 80 miles off the coast of northern British Columbia-see map. Flying. Air Canada (www.aircanada.ca) (1-888-247-2262) flies daily from Vancouver to Sandspit on Haida Gwaii. In the summer months they offer two flights a day. Eagle Cabs (1-250-559-4461 to make a reservation) provides an airport limo service from Sandspit to Queen Charlotte City for $25.00. The Gwaii Haanas National Park Reserve website is a great source of trip planning material. You can also call them at 1-250-559-8818 and request a “Gwaii Haanas Trip Planning” brochure (or download it off their website).
Arriving by Water: BC Ferries provides regular scheduled sailings to the Islands from Prince Rupert year round. Connector service is available in Prince Rupert for the Inside Passage route to Port Hardy on Vancouver Island or north with Alaska's Marine Ferry System. Personal motor vessels can be accommodated throughout the islands.
Masset also features twice daily floatplane service to Prince Rupert with Inland Air 250-626-3225. Service with BC Ferries to Haida Gwaii is also available from Prince Rupert to Skidegate which is 113km south of Masset. The ferry crossing is six hours long if weather conditions are favourable. Book as early as possible for summer crossings. The ferry is quite often to capacity during the summer season. 
The main airport is in Sandspit on Moresby Island. A secondary airport, smaller in size, is located on the northern tip of Haida Gwaii near Masset on Graham Island. From Sandspit Airport there is a local airport bus which transports all passengers from Moresby Island to Queen Charlotte City on Graham Island. British Columbia, Canada. Think of the traveling experience to Haida Gwaii, (formerly Queen Charlotte Islands), as a big west coast scenic tour, because that is what it is. Whether by sea or by air the scenery is spell binding
The name Haida Gwaii is a modern coinage and was created in the early 1980s as an alternative to the colonial-era name Queen Charlotte Islands, to recognize the history of the Haida people. Haida Gwaii means islands of the people, while Haida on its own means not only us but also people. On December 11, 2009, the BC government announced that legislation would be introduced in mid-2010 to officially rename the Queen Charlotte Islands as Haida Gwaii. 
About Haida Gwaii. Haida Gwaii means Islands of the People.. The area consists of more than 150 islands of varying sizes. It is the most remote archipelago in Canada, located parallel to the northwest coast of mainland British Columbia, 100km/62mi across the Hecate Strait from Prince Rupert.