Bermuda grass varieties are usually to be mowed with a conventional mower for height above 1. Mowing below 1 requires that a reel mower be used. They look their best at heights from 1.5 to 2.5 inches, but can usually accommodate heights as low as as 3/4 inches.
Seeding rates for Bermuda grass range from 1 to 2 pounds of hulled seed or 2 to 3 pounds of coated seed per 1,000 square feet of lawn. Use a rotary spreader and divide the seed in half and apply it in two directions. When you finish, lightly roll the seed to increase its contact with the soil.
Bermuda grass seeds will germinate best if in a soil with a pH between 6 and 7. The grass grows best when the soil temperature is between 75 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit and the air temperature is between 75 and 95 F. You can expect a complete turf cover in four to six weeks.
It is universally suggested that no more than 30 to 40 percent of the turf's length be removed in a single cutting. For the short cutting heights recommended for Bermuda grass, this means cutting twice a week during the peak of the growing season to keep it at 1 inch.
Recommended Mowing Height. Texas A&M University turf specialists recommend keeping Bermuda grass cut to a height of 1 inch, maintaining that, at heights above 1 inch, the turf that is less wear-resistant and develops unattractive brown stems.
It depends on the look you are going for. If you are willing to invest the time and care for a golf-course quality bermuda grass lawn we recommend a height of 1/4 to 1/2 inches. This will require that you mow your grass two or three times a week during peak growing season.
From the table, you should be able to determine what type of grass you have and the recommended mowing height for each. For example, if you identified your lawn as Common Bermuda grass, then your suggested mowing height should range from 3/4 to 1 1/2 inches. As a rule of thumb, it is best to stay at the high end of these suggested heights, especially during seasonal droughts and heat waves.