A cut, puncture wound, deep scrape, deep burn, or any injury that breaks the skin or mucous membrane are called wounds. The bacteria make a toxin, or poison, that causes severe muscle spasms and seizures. Tetanus is also called lockjaw because muscle spasms in your jaw make it hard to open your mouth. This makes it hard to swallow or breathe. Tetanus can be very dangerous and can cause death. 
Tetanus, also known as lockjaw, is an infection characterized by muscle spasms. In the most common type the spasms begin in the jaw and then progress to the rest of the body. These spasms usually last a few minutes each time and occur frequently for three to four weeks. Tetanus occurs in all parts of the world but is most frequent in hot and wet climates where the soil contains a lot of organic matter. In 2013 it caused about 59,000 deaths – down from 356,000 in 1990. Description of the disease by Hippocrates exists from at least as far back as the 5th century BCE.
Tetanus often begins with mild spasms in the jaw muscles —also known as lockjaw or trismus. The spasms can also affect the facial muscles resulting in an appearance called risus sardonicus. Chest, neck, back, abdominal muscles, and buttocks may be affected. Back muscle spasms often cause arching, called opisthotonos. Tetanus occurs in all parts of the world but is most frequent in hot and wet climates where the soil contains a lot of organic matter. In 2013 it caused about 59,000 deaths – down from 356,000 in 1990. Description of the disease by Hippocrates exists from at least as far back as the 5th century BCE.
Tetanus. 1  Tetanus, commonly called lockjaw, is caused by a bacterium that is mostly present in soil, manure, and in the digestive tracts of animals and humans. 2  Tetanus is not contagious and cannot be transmitted from person to person. 1
Tetanus (or lockjaw) is a serious infection caused by Clostridium tetani bacteria which produce a toxin that affects the brain and nervous system. The toxin leads to stiffness in the jaw muscles as well as other muscles. Tetanus symptoms usually emerge about 10 days after initial infection, however this can vary from 4 days to about 3 weeks, and in some cases may take months. In general, the further the injury site is from the central nervous system, the longer the incubation period.
Tetanus, commonly called lockjaw, is a serious bacterial disease that affects muscles and nerves. It is characterized by muscle stiffness that usually involves the jaw and neck that then progresses to involve other parts of the body. Death can result from severe breathing difficulties or heart abnormalities. 
About 10% of those infected die. Tetanus is caused by an infection with the bacterium Clostridium tetani, which is commonly found in soil, dust and manure. The bacteria generally enter through a break in the skin such as a cut or puncture wound by a contaminated object. Tetanus occurs in all parts of the world but is most frequent in hot and wet climates where the soil contains a lot of organic matter. In 2013 it caused about 59,000 deaths – down from 356,000 in 1990. Description of the disease by Hippocrates exists from at least as far back as the 5th century BCE.
Tetanus is an infectious disease caused by contamination of wounds with the bacteria Clostridium tetani, and/or the spores they produce that live in the soil and animal feces. Tetanus has been recognized for centuries. 1 Local tetanus manifests with muscle spasms at or near the wound that has been infected with the bacteria. 2  Cephalic tetanus primarily affects one or several muscles in the face rapidly (in one to two days) after a head injury or ear infection.
Tetanus symptoms usually show up 4 to 21 days after you've been infected with the bacteria that cause the infection. Most commonly, symptoms start after about 10 days, but it can be as little as one day or as long as several months. They then spread to other muscles, such as: 1  chewing muscles – making it very hard to open the mouth (sometimes called lockjaw). 2  throat muscles – making it difficult to swallow. 3  facial muscles – making it look like someone is grinning. 4  neck muscles – making the head tilt.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Tetanus is different from other vaccine-preventable diseases because it does not spread from person to person. The bacteria are usually found in soil, dust and manure and enter the body through breaks in the skin-usually cuts or puncture wounds caused by contaminated objects. 