Glucomannan is also sold as a dietary supplement in powder, capsule, and tablet forms, either as a single ingredient or in combination with other fibers or weight loss aids. Abundant claims have been made about glucomannan’s ability to promote weight loss. 
Glucomannan is a water-soluble polysaccharide that is considered a dietary fiber. It is a hemicellulose component in the cell walls of some plant species. Glucomannan is a food additive used as an emulsifier and thickener. Glucomannan is a soluble fiber, and as such, has been investigated for the treatment of constipation. Glucomannan may relieve constipation by decreasing fecal transit time.
Glucomannan is a water-soluble dietary fiber that has shown to be effective as a bulk-forming laxative. Glucomannan is a water-soluble dietary fiber that is derived from konjac root. Like other sources of fiber, such as psyllium and fenugreek, glucomannan is considered a bulk-forming laxative. Glucomannan is a water-soluble dietary fiber that has been shown to significantly reduce total blood cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and triglycerides, and to raise HDL cholesterol
Glucomannan is a sugar made from the root of the konjac plant (Amorphophallus konjac). Glucommanan powder, capsules, and tablets are used as medicine. Glucomannan is used for constipation, weight loss in adults and children, type 2 diabetes, blood sugar control, and lowering cholesterol. In foods, glucomannan is used as a thickener or gelling agent. Glucommanan flour and powder are used in food. 1 Stomach condition called dumping syndrome. 2  Some early research suggests that taking a specific glucomannan product (Propol, Pharmacia, Woerden, The Netherlands) reduces the risk of blood sugar becoming too low after eating in people who have had stomach surgery. 3  However, not all research agrees.
To use glucomannan powder as a thickener, first whisk it with cold water and then combine it with the other ingredients in your recipe. One teaspoon of glucomannan powder is recommended for thickening one cup of liquid, although you should first experiment with a small amount to obtain desired results. Our Glucomannan powder can be used to aid weight loss since it is a soluble fiber that creates a feeling of fullness so you end up eating less and losing weight.
Konjac foods brand is the best quality and price of any glucomannan powder I've found. It's great for all uses especially homemade noodles. I highly recommend it. It's over 95% glucomannan with no carbs. so you can use less to get the same results in all your recipes. If you add konjac powder directly to your food you will end up with a lumpy mess. Konjac powder can be used as a thickener for smooth gravies, sauces, glazes, soups, stews and casseroles. It is also a thickener in pies, puddings, custards and cake fillings.
4.9 out of 5 stars. Glucomannan powder is derived from the roots of the Konjac plant. Our Glucomannan powder can be used to aid weight loss since it is a soluble fiber that creates a feeling of fullness so you end up eating less and losing weight. It can also be used as a gluten-free thickening agent in food applications
How to use Konjac Glucomannan Powder: Drink it with water: Three times daily before each meal, briskly stir one level teasponn konjac powder (about 4 gram) in 8 ounces of water, drink immediatly before the begins to gel. Use it as thickener. Konjac glucomanan powder is pure soluble fiber, none protein, none fat, none sugar, none starch, it is also gluten free and wheat free. Order Online $19.00 per bag plus $5.00 shipping fee with post office priority mail.