If you have an ulcer, you should be tested for H. pylori, and if found to be infected, you should be treated with antibiotics. Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers; therapy is 1-2 weeks of one or two antibiotics and a medicine that will reduce the acid in the stomach. This treatment is a dramatic medical advance because eliminating H. pylori with antibiotics means that there is a greater than 90% chance that the ulcer can be cured for good.
1 Most ulcers are caused by an infection, not spicy food, acid or stress. 2  The most common ulcer symptom is burning pain in the stomach. 3  Your doctor can test you for H. pylori infection. 4  Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers. 5  Eliminating H. pylori infections with antibiotics means that your ulcer can be cured for good. Antibiotics are the new cure for ulcers; therapy is 1-2 weeks of one or two antibiotics and a medicine that will reduce the acid in the stomach. This treatment is a dramatic medical advance because eliminating H. pylori with antibiotics means that there is a greater than 90% chance that the
Learn about all-natural ulcer remedies that are easy and extremely effective. Since ulcers can recur and become a chronic problem, or can lead to a number of serious complications including bleeding, it is important to treat them promptly. 
The importance of correct diagnosis. For stomach ulcers caused by H. pylori infection, you should first get diagnosed by a doctor-this is paramount to deciding on the right treatment to treat this condition or infection. 
Stomach ulcers are often treated with antibiotics or medications to reduce, block, or neutralize stomach acid. There are also natural home remedies you can use to help ease the symptoms of a stomach ulcer and help it heal. The most common cause of stomach ulcers is the bacteria helicobacter pylori, or H. pylori. Ulcers may also be caused by overuse of painkillers, such as aspirin, and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, such as ibuprofen or naproxen.
The lining of the gut is shielded from potentially damaging digestive secretions by a coating of protective mucus. Sometimes, this protective mechanism breaks down leading to the development of a raw area or ulcer in wall of the intestine. The majority of ulcers develop in the part of the gut just after the stomach called the duodenum, though some develop in the stomach itself. Dietary changes and certain nutritional supplements may promote ulcer healing and help prevent a recurrence of the problem. There are several things you can do that may help improve digestion and improve digestive discomfort. I would advise you to avoid large meals, as the more food and drink you have in your stomach, the greater the risk of acid reflux.
The major possible cause of stomach ulcer is the infection of bacteria called H-pylori. But don’t worry – this kind of infection can be cured with the appropriate treatments! Overall, it’s important for all patients with stomach ulcer to have a completely treatment. If the disease is caused by an infection of bacteria ‘H-pylori’, you need to take some antibiotics to cure the infection. Other major steps of the treatment include: ” 1 Reducing. ” 2 Blockers”. ” 3 Antacids”.
While some patients say that they cure the problem for only about a couple of weeks, others need to take about a month, several months, or even almost one year. There are some natural ways to cure and get rid of stomach ulcers. Even these home remedies can be the primary part of the major treatment plan. If the disease is caused by an infection of bacteria ‘H-pylori’, you need to take some antibiotics to cure the infection. Other major steps of the treatment include: ” 1 Reducing. ” 2 Blockers”. ” 3 Antacids”.
Ulcers that appear in the stomach are called gastric ulcers, the most common. Find relief and cure for a peptic ulcer by taking steps at home to heal and soothe the spot, and to avoid further irritation. Ulcers are open sores or tears that appear in the lining of internal organs, most commonly found in the stomach or intestines, but can be found in the esophagus as well. Peptic ulcers are open sores that start off as sore spots, then become reddened and inflamed, eventually breaking the surface of lining or skin.