Zygomycota. /Zy·go·my·co·ta/ (zi″go-mi-ko´tah) a division of the soil fungi consisting of soil saprobes and invertebrate parasites. Organisms may cause human or animal infection in debilitated or highly stressed individuals. In some systems of classification, the Zygomycota are treated as a subdivision, Zygomycotina, which is classified under the division Eumycota. 
Ascomycota is a division or phylum of the kingdom Fungi that, together with the Basidiomycota, form the subkingdom Dikarya. Its members are commonly known as the sac fungi or ascomycetes. The names Ascomycota, Ascomycetes, and others with the same root are based upon the term ascus. Ascomycetes was soon used to include lichenized taxa, and became the standard term, at the class level, for all ascus-bearing species, just as the term Basidiomycetes became used for their basidium-bearing counterparts.
As in most zygomycetes, asexual reproduction is the most common form of reproduction. Sexual reproduction in Rhizopus stolonifer, as in other zygomycetes, occurs when haploid hyphae of different mating types are in close proximity to each other. The evolution of the conidium from the sporangiospore is the main defining difference between Zygomycetes and Ascomycetes. The evolution of sporangiospores typical of zygomycetes to conidia similar to those found in ascomycetes can be modeled by a series of forms seen in zygomycetes.
Noun. 1. Zygomycota-division of fungi having sexually produced zygospores. subdivision Zygomycota, subdivision Zygomycotina, Zygomycotina. division - (botany) taxonomic unit of plants corresponding to a phylum. 
Two other common names for Zygomycota are pin molds and sugar molds. The term pin mold refers to the appearance of certain species, while sugar molds refers to the sugar-rich fruit that is often affected by zygomycota. They are thought to be the most primitive terrestrial fungi. The most familiar is the mold that affects strawberries and other fruits. This phylum encompasses at least seven orders. Zygomycota are commonly thought of as bread molds, but there are many species of fungi within this classification that form symbiotic relationships with plants or infect animal hosts.
division Eumycota, Eumycota-true fungi; eukaryotic heterotrophic walled organisms; distinguished from Myxomycota (funguslike slime molds): comprises subdivisions Mastigomycotina; Zygomycotina; Ascomycotina; Basidiomycotina; Deuteromycotina (imperfect fungi). 
• SUBDIVISION ZYGOMYCOTINA (noun). The noun SUBDIVISION ZYGOMYCOTINA has 1 sense: 1. division of fungi having sexually produced zygospores. Familiarity information: SUBDIVISION ZYGOMYCOTINA used as a noun is very rare. 
Trisporoids are also used in the mediation of the recognition between parasite and host. An example is the host-parasite interaction of a parasexual nature observed between Parasitella parasitica, a facultative mycoparasite of zygomycetes, and Absidia glauca. The evolution of the conidium from the sporangiospore is the main defining difference between Zygomycetes and Ascomycetes. The evolution of sporangiospores typical of zygomycetes to conidia similar to those found in ascomycetes can be modeled by a series of forms seen in zygomycetes.
Zygomycetes exhibit a special structure of cell wall. Most fungi have chitin as structural polysaccharide, while zygomycetes synthesize chitosan, the deacetylated homopolymer of chitin. Chitin is built of β-1,4 bonded N-acetyl glucosamine. The evolution of the conidium from the sporangiospore is the main defining difference between Zygomycetes and Ascomycetes. The evolution of sporangiospores typical of zygomycetes to conidia similar to those found in ascomycetes can be modeled by a series of forms seen in zygomycetes.
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi. The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction. The evolution of the conidium from the sporangiospore is the main defining difference between Zygomycetes and Ascomycetes. The evolution of sporangiospores typical of zygomycetes to conidia similar to those found in ascomycetes can be modeled by a series of forms seen in zygomycetes.