© Sridhar Rao P.N (www.microrao.com) Autoclave: Sterilization can be effectively achieved at a temperature above 100 o C using an autoclave. Water boils at 100 o C at atmospheric pressure, but if pressure is raised, the temperature at which the water boils also increases. 
Because disinfectants and antiseptics often work slowly on some viruses, such as the hepatitis viruses, bacteria such as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and especially bacterial endospores, they are usually unreliable for sterilization (the destruction of all life forms). Copper sulfate is used to combat fungal diseases of plants and is also a common algicide. Selinium sulfide kills fungi and their spores. 6) Chlorine Chlorine gas acts to denature microbial enzymes. Chlorine is used in the chlorination of drinking water, swimming pools, and sewage.
The sterilization process must be monitored to ensure the safety of workers performing the sterilization. Chemical Use in Disinfection. For reusable devices (such as those used in hospitals) chemicals are often used for repeated disinfection after each use (disinfection is a different process from sterilization). The chemical(s) and procedure used must be validated. In this case it is important to perform a cleaning and disinfection validation. Considerations in Chemical Sterilization. A primary concern in using chemical sterilization is ensuring that the item to be sterilized is compatible with the sterilant. Some sterilants can be chemically damaging to certain materials; you may wish to consult with your materials manufacturer for more information.
1. Define the following terms: sterilization, disinfection, decontamination, disinfectant, antiseptic, and sanitizer. 2. State why chemical agents are usually unreliable for sterilization. 3. List five factors that may influence the antimicrobial action of disinfectants, antiseptics, and sanitizers. A large number of such chemical agents are in common use. Some of the more common groups are listed below: 1. Phenol and phenol derivatives Phenol (5-10%) was the first disinfectant commonly used. However, because of its toxicity and odor, phenol derivatives (phenolics) are now generally used.
Sterilization is distinct from disinfection, sanitization, and pasteurization in that sterilization kills, deactivates, or eliminates all forms of life and other biological agents. Dry heat was the first method of sterilization, and is a longer process than moist heat sterilization. The destruction of microorganisms through the use of dry heat is a gradual phenomenon. With longer exposure to lethal temperatures, the number of killed microorganisms increases.
Like other sterilization systems, the steam cycle is monitored by mechanical, chemical, and biological monitors. Steam sterilizers usually are monitored using a printout (or graphically) by measuring temperature, the time at the temperature, and pressure. Overview. Of all the methods available for sterilization, moist heat in the form of saturated steam under pressure is the most widely used and the most dependable. Steam sterilization is nontoxic, inexpensive 826, rapidly microbicidal, sporicidal, and rapidly heats and penetrates fabrics (Table 6) 827.
There are four main ways in which such items can be sterilized: autoclave (by using high-pressure steam), dry heat (in an oven), by using chemical sterilants such as glutaraldehydes or formaldehyde solutions or by radiation (with the help of physical agents). Sterilization is a process intended to kill all microorganisms and is the highest level of microbial kill that is possible. Sterilizers may be heat only, steam, or liquid chemical. Effectivness of the sterilizer (e.g., a steam autoclave) is determined in three ways.
1) Define the following terms: sterilization, disinfection, decontamination, disinfectant, antiseptic, and sanitizer. 2) State why chemical agents are usually unreliable for sterilization. 3) Describe two modes of action of disinfectants, antiseptics, and sanitizers, i.e., how they harm the microorganisms. 4) Name two chemical agents that are reliable for sterilization. Copper sulfate is used to combat fungal diseases of plants and is also a common algicide. Selinium sulfide kills fungi and their spores. 6) Chlorine Chlorine gas acts to denature microbial enzymes. Chlorine is used in the chlorination of drinking water, swimming pools, and sewage.