The easiest approach is to use that water for other purposes-watering the garden, washing clothes, even bathing, and continue to use fresh tap water for drinking. Using a Humanure system will further reduce the amount of fresh water you use. A very sustainable approach to purifying rainwater is a slow sand filter. It's a simple technology, using easy-to-obtain elements (a barrel, sand, etc.), and anyone can set one up. They do require regular attention and maintenance.
I am drinking rain water off the roof of my RV. Filtered rain water of course using a homemade filter system and the Berkey water filter element. My water filter is simply a pretzel jar with the Berkey water filter inside it. This is screwed on top of a sun tea jar which has a spout on the bottom of it. To get clean, pure drinking water I pour some of my rain water into the top container and it very slowly filters down through into the sun tea jar on the bottom. This makes the most perfect and clean water that you can find on this earth
Most rain water is safe to drink. Actually, rain water is the water supply for much of the world's population. The levels of pollution, pollen, mold, and other contaminants are low -- possibly lower than your public drinking water supply. You can collect rain water directly from the sky into a clean bucket or bowl. Ideally, use a disinfected container or one that was run through a dishwasher. Let the rain water sit for at least an hour so heavy particulates can settle to the bottom.
Germs and Other Contaminants. While useful for many things, rainwater is not as pure as you might think, so you can’t assume it’s safe to drink. Rain can wash different types of contaminants into the water you collect (for example, bird poop on your roof could end up in your water barrel or tank). Rainwater can carry bacteria, parasites, viruses, and chemicals that could make you sick, and it has been linked to disease outbreaks. The risk of getting sick from rainwater may be different depending on your location, how frequently it rains, the season, and how you collect and store the rainwater.
If you intend to use rainwater for drinking, minimizing contamination is essential. Keep the rain barrel clean; remove overhanging branches and any debris on roofs or gutters. Use fine wire mesh to keep leaves, bugs and other materials from getting into the rain barrel. The rain that falls in cities or flows across outdoor basins, roofs and other open air surfaces on its way to a barrel is another story. Contamination from animal feces, dead insects, engine oil, car exhaust, lead paint and other substances can make drinking it a health hazard. (See References 1, pages 120e and f).
The other important consideration is how you collect the rain water. You can collect rain water directly from the sky into a clean bucket or bowl. Ideally, use a disinfected container or one that was run through a dishwasher. Let the rain water sit for at least an hour so heavy particulates can settle to the bottom.
Boiling. For emergency or short-term use of rain barrel water for drinking, boiling is the best way to purify rainwater because it kills viruses, parasites and bacteria that cause diarrhea. The rain that falls in cities or flows across outdoor basins, roofs and other open air surfaces on its way to a barrel is another story. Contamination from animal feces, dead insects, engine oil, car exhaust, lead paint and other substances can make drinking it a health hazard. (See References 1, pages 120e and f).
If you collect the rainwater in a container that you know to be clean, the water will be fine, although, if you live in an urban, smoky area you may want to skip collecting the first minute or two of a shower as the dirt is washed out of the air. 
Rainwater is generally pure water and is safe to drink if you collect it in a clean container. Water found while camping may have rainwater as its source but is susceptible to contamination as soon as it hits the ground. There are several simple methods to convert collected rainwater into safe drinking water. Remove rainwater from the top of your collecting tub. Allow the rainwater remaining in the tub at least an hour to settle out heavy particles. Avoid stirring up the settled particles as you draw water out. Pour the clear water into the 1-quart metal pan. Start a fire using dry firewood and matches.
Rainwater Collection. Collecting and using rainwater can be a great way to conserve resources. Some people use rainwater for watering plants, cleaning, bathing, or drinking. Rainwater collection is not allowed in all places. Rainwater can carry bacteria, parasites, viruses, and chemicals that could make you sick, and it has been linked to disease outbreaks. The risk of getting sick from rainwater may be different depending on your location, how frequently it rains, the season, and how you collect and store the rainwater.