: a substance that makes land, water, air, etc., dirty and not safe or suitable to use: something that causes pollution. Full Definition of POLLUTANT. : something that pollutes. See pollutant defined for English-language learners. See pollutant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
You must try to not release a pollutant into the air from your industrial complex or you may get hit with some huge fines. 11 people found this helpful. The pollutant in the environment was of a nuisance to the community so the plant was shut down the board. 11 people found this helpful. In terms of resources used, and total pollutant contributed in a lifetime, one citizen of the United States is the equivalent of about 80 citizens of India. 
1. The act or process of polluting or the state of being polluted, especially the contamination of soil, water, or the atmosphere by the discharge of harmful substances. 2. Something that pollutes; a pollutant or a group of pollutants: Pollution in the air reduced the visibility near the airport. (pəˈluːʃən). pollution. When there is pollution, the water or air in a place is dirty, impure, and dangerous, usually because poisonous chemicals have got into it. ...changes in the climate due to pollution of the atmosphere. Pollution is an uncount noun.
A pollutant may cause long-or short-term damage by changing the growth rate of plant or animal species, or by interfering with human amenities, comfort, health, or property values. Some pollutants are biodegradable and therefore will not persist in the environment in the long term. However the degradation products of some pollutants are themselves polluting such as the products DDE and DDD produced from degradation of DDT.
pollutant. noun pol·lut·ant \pə-ˈlue-ˈlü\. Tənt. : tweet a substance that makes, land, water, air., etc dirty and not safe or suitable to: use something that causes. pollution Full Definition of POLLUTANT. : something that pollutes. See pollutant defined for English-language learners. See pollutant defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
pollutant. n. 1. (Environmental Science) a substance that pollutes, esp a chemical or similar substance that is produced as a waste product of an industrial process. (pəˈlut nt). n. 
Pollution is when something is added to the environment that is harmful or poisonous to living things. Smoke in the air from factories is a type of pollution as it is bad for the lungs when breathed in. 
A pollutant is a substance or energy introduced into the environment that has undesired effects, or adversely affects the usefulness of a resource. Some pollutants are biodegradable and therefore will not persist in the environment in the long term. However the degradation products of some pollutants are themselves polluting such as the products DDE and DDD produced from degradation of DDT.
Pollution is the introduction of contaminants into the natural environment that cause adverse change. Pollution can take the form of chemical substances or energy, such as noise, heat or light. Pollutants, the components of pollution, can be either foreign substances/energies or naturally occurring contaminants. Pollution is often classed as point source or nonpoint source pollution. 