Introduction. Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a blood disorder that causes a drop in your number of healthy blood cells. Another name for this condition is myelodysplasia. Treatment will depend on your type of MDS, your risk group, and whether you have any other health conditions. The aim is to get the number and type of blood cells in your bloodstream back to normal, and manage symptoms with supportive treatment (see below).
The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS, myelodysplasia) are a group of blood disorders associated with low blood counts. Normally, blood cells are produced by the bone marrow (the spongy area in the middle of bones) in a controlled fashion. 
Stem cells (immature blood cells) are removed from the blood or bone marrow of a donor and are frozen for storage. After the chemotherapy is completed, the stored stem cells are thawed and given back to the patient through an infusion. A blood stem cell may become a lymphoid stem cell or a myeloid stem cell. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a white blood cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells: 1  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.
Myelodysplastic syndromes are a group of cancers in which immature blood cells in the bone marrow do not mature or become healthy blood cells. In a healthy person, the bone marrow makes blood stem cells (immature cells) that become mature blood cells over time. Anatomy of the bone. A blood stem cell may become a lymphoid stem cell or a myeloid stem cell. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a white blood cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells: 1  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) are a group of diverse bone marrow disorders in which the bone marrow does not produce enough healthy blood cells. MDS is often referred to as a “bone marrow failure disorder”. You may have heard the news that Robin Roberts has been diagnosed with MDS (Myelodysplastic Syndromes). You are probably wondering what MDS is, including the symptoms, prognosis, treatment, etc…. You have come to the right place
In a patient with a myelodysplastic syndrome, the blood stem cells (immature cells) do not become mature red blood cells, white blood cells, or platelets in the bone marrow. These immature blood cells, called blasts, do not work the way they should and either die in the bone marrow or soon after they go into the blood. A blood stem cell may become a lymphoid stem cell or a myeloid stem cell. A lymphoid stem cell becomes a white blood cell. A myeloid stem cell becomes one of three types of mature blood cells: 1  Red blood cells that carry oxygen and other substances to all tissues of the body.
The myelodysplastic syndromes (also known as MDS or myelodysplasia) are hematological (i.e., blood-related) medical conditions with ineffective production (or  dysplasia ) of all blood cells. Patients with MDS can develop severe anemia and require blood transfusions. In some cases, the disease worsens and the patient develops cytopenias (low blood counts) caused by progressive bone marrow failure. The outlook in MDS depends on the type and severity. Many people live normal lifespans with MDS. The myelodysplastic syndromes are all disorders of the hematopoietic stem cells in the bone marrow (only related to myeloid lineage). In MDS, hematopoiesis (i.e., blood production) is disorderly and ineffective
Myelodysplastic syndrome is a group of hematological conditions resulting from the ineffective function or production of the myeloid blood cells. Formerly known as pre-leukemia, the bone marrow develops progressive failure and results in cytopenias (low blood count). The life expectancy of patients with MDS also depends on the type of MDS. The mean life-expectancy is 18 to 24 months in mild cases of MDS or longer when stem cell transplantation is done.
Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is a group of diseases that affects normal blood cell production in the bone marrow. In MDS, the bone marrow produces abnormal, immature blood cells called blast cells. These cells fail to mature properly are unable to work properly. 