Snakes [edit]. 1  Agkistrodon contortrix, or copperhead, a venomous pit viper species found in parts of North America. 2  Austrelaps, or Australian copperhead, a genus of venomous elapids found in southern Australia and Tasmania. 3  Elaphe radiata, or the copperhead rat snake, a non-venomous species found in southern Asia. 
Australian Copperhead (Austrelaps superbus). Australian Copperheads are highly venomous Poisonous Snakes native to the temperate territories of southern and eastern Australia. Well adapted to cooler climates, they are the only Australian snake found above the snowline.
However, copperheads are the only kind of snakes with hourglass-shaped markings. In contrast to its patterned body, the snake's coppery-brown head lacks such adornments, except for a pair of tiny dark dots usually present on top of the head, said Beane. Water moccasins (cottonmouths) , radiated rat snakes, Australian copperheads and sharp-nosed pit vipers are all sometimes called copperheads, but these are different species from the North American copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix).
The northern copperhead is a pit-viper, as are all three of Virginia's venomous snake species (northern copperhead, eastern cottonmouth and timber rattlesnake). The pit in pit-viper refers to the heating sensing pit located between the eye and the nostrils on the snake's head. 
The ADW explains that when attacking large prey, copperheads bite the victim, and then release it. They let the venom work, and then track down the prey once it has died. The snakes usually hold smaller prey in their mouths until the victim dies. Water moccasins (cottonmouths) , radiated rat snakes, Australian copperheads and sharp-nosed pit vipers are all sometimes called copperheads, but these are different species from the North American copperhead (Agkistrodon contortrix).
Copperhead Facts: An enzyme in the venom of copperheads has been discovered to inhibit the growth of cancer cells. This enzyme, called contortrostatin, is being studied for further usage in human medicine. This snake gets its name from the unique copper hue present on the scales of its head.
Agkistrodon contortrix is a species of venomous snake endemic to North America, a member of the Crotalinae (pit viper) subfamily. The common name for this species is the copperhead. The behavior of Agkistrodon contortrix may lead to accidental encounters with humans. Five subspecies are currently recognized, including the nominate subspecies described here.
In some areas they are more common than in other areas. Copperhead Appearance: Copperhead snakes are considered a medium sized snake with a wide body and a broad head. The snake has a distinctive neck, unlike in other species where that characteristic is indistinguishable. An enzyme in the venom of copperheads has been discovered to inhibit the growth of cancer cells. This enzyme, called contortrostatin, is being studied for further usage in human medicine. This snake gets its name from the unique copper hue present on the scales of its head.
Let's Begin with Copperheads.... Copperhead snakes are the most common venomous snake in the Eastern US. They are in the pit viper family (Crotalidae). They are also in the genus Agkistrodone, which includes the cottonmouth or water moccasin. You can see that the water snake has a wide variation of color patterns, just like the copperhead; however, they do not have hour glass shaped bands, and they have the physical characteristics of nonvenomous snakes (eyes, head scale pattern, vent scales, eye etc.).
Adults eat mostly mice but also small birds, lizards, small snakes, amphibians, and insects--especially cicadas. Copperheads have fangs that inject prey with a hemolytic venom (causes the breakdown of red blood cells) which subdues its prey, making it easy for the snake to swallow it. The copperhead has solenoglyphous fangs that can be .3 inches (7.2 mm) in length. The length of the fangs is related to the length of the snake; the longer the snake, the longer the fangs. Even newborn copperheads have fully functional fangs that are capable of injecting venom that is just as toxic as adult venom.