Plate tectonics is the study of movement of Earth's plates, called tectonic plates, that result in geologic activities. The information below explains the theory of plate tectonics. To understand how plate tectonics work, you need to know the Earth's basic structure. 
Plate tectonics is the theory that Earth's outer shell is divided into several plates that glide over the mantle, the rocky inner layer above the core. The plates act like a hard and rigid shell compared to Earth's mantle. This strong outer layer is called the lithosphere. 
In the theory of plate tectonics, the earth's crust is broken into plates that move around relative to each other. As a result of this movement, three types of plate boundaries are formed: divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries. Convergent boundaries are boundaries where two plates are pushing into each other. They are formed when two plates collide, either crumpling up and forming mountains or pushing one of the plates under the other and back into the mantle to melt.
Joshua has in. Tectonic plates move because they are floating on top of the liquid mantle. The mantle itself moves due to convection currents: hot rock rises, gives off some heat, then falls. This creates vast swirls of moving liquid rock under the crust of the earth, which jostles the plates of crust on top.
As the Earth's tectonic plates move they interact in a number of different ways and they form different types of plate boundaries. Divergent boundaries are where the plates move away from each other and new crust is created. Mid-ocean ridges are an example of divergent boundaries. 
1 The Earth's surface is covered by a series of crustal plates. 2  The plates are composed of crustal rock and solid upper mantle which is called the lithosphere. * 3  Plates are composed of continental and oceanic crust. 1 The plates are composed of crustal rock and solid upper mantle which is called the lithosphere. * 2  Plates are composed of continental and oceanic crust. 3  The oceanic crusts are continually moving, spreading from the center, sinking at the edges, in a process of recycling.
Tectonic plates are segments of the Earth's lithosphere, the hard rocky outer shell composed of the crust and the uppermost mantle. This shell is divided by lines of faults, ridges of plate creation, and zones of plate destruction. 1 The plates are composed of crustal rock and solid upper mantle which is called the lithosphere. * 2  Plates are composed of continental and oceanic crust. 3  The oceanic crusts are continually moving, spreading from the center, sinking at the edges, in a process of recycling.
No they are not the same thing.    Plate Tectonics is the study of mechanisms and the results of  large-scale movement of the earth's crust.    Tectonic Plates … are large sections of the earth's crust that float  on top of semi-molten rocks of the upper mantle. 3 people found this useful. 
The Earth's plates are riding on top of the currents caused by these processes. The main features of plate tectonics are: 1  The Earth's surface is covered by a series of crustal plates. 2  The plates are composed of crustal rock and solid upper mantle which is called the lithosphere. * 3  Plates are composed of continental and oceanic crust. 1 The plates are composed of crustal rock and solid upper mantle which is called the lithosphere. * 2  Plates are composed of continental and oceanic crust. 3  The oceanic crusts are continually moving, spreading from the center, sinking at the edges, in a process of recycling.
Tectonic plates are large plates of rock that make up the foundation of the Earth's crust and the shape of the continents. The tectonic plates comprise the bottom of the crust and the top of the Earth's mantle. There are ten major plates on Earth and many more minor ones. They float on a plastic-like part of the Earth's mantle called the asthenosphere. The plates are most famously known for being the source of earthquakes. 