The primary cause of pterygium is cumulative UV radiation, typically from sun exposure. Dry, windy, and dusty conditions can also contribute to its growth. 
A pterygium, from the Greek word for “wing,” is an abnormal growth of tissue that extends from the conjunctiva (a membrane that covers the white of the eye) onto the cornea. Pterygia may be small, or grow large enough to interfere with vision and cause irritation. 
Back to Top Symptoms. The main symptom of a pterygium is a painless area of raised white tissue that has blood vessels on the inner or outer edge of the cornea. Sometimes the pterygium has no symptoms. However, it may become inflamed and cause burning, irritation, or a feeling like there's something foreign in the eye. A pterygium is a non-cancerous growth that starts in the of the clear, thin tissue (conjunctiva) of the eye. This growth covers the white part of the eye (sclera) and extends onto the cornea. It is often slightly raised and contains visible blood vessels. The problem may occur on one or both eyes.
Symptoms of pterygium. Sometimes, a pterygium causes no symptoms other than its appearance. An enlarging pterygium, however, may cause redness and inflammation. In some cases, a pterygium can grow onto the centre of the cornea (the clear, outer layer of the eye covering the iris and pupil) and interfere with vision. It may also distort the shape of the cornea, causing a condition called astigmatism. The result can be blurred vis
Pinguecula has the same risk factors as pterygium, especially frequent exposure to the sun without sunglasses. Because pinguecula may prevent tears from coating the surface of your eye well, it can cause dryness and a feeling like something’s stuck in your eye. The pinguecula can also become red. An enlarging pterygium, however, may cause redness and inflammation. A pterygium can progressively grow onto the cornea (the clear, outer layer of the eye). This can distort the shape of the cornea, causing a condition called astigmatism. The result can be blurred vision.
enquire online. Pterygium symptoms A pterygium can usually be seen as a fleshy, pink growth on the white of the eye, and may occur in one eye or both. They occur between the eyelids, most often in the corner of the eye, close to the nose, but can sometimes extend onto the cornea. A pinguecula will also normally occur in the corner of the eye, near the nose, and can affect one eye or both. Just like a pterygium, a pinguecula can cause irritation, as well as difficulty wearing contact lenses. However, a pinguecula cannot grow across the cornea, and therefore will not affect vision.
To research the causes of Pterygium, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Pterygium: 1  Ocular mass. 2  Ocular lesion. 3  Corneal surface. 4  Corneal topography. 5  Diplopia. 6  Double vision. 7  Vision loss. 
Sometimes, a pterygium causes no symptoms other than its appearance. An enlarging pterygium, however, may cause redness and inflammation. A pterygium can progressively grow onto the cornea (the clear, outer layer of the eye). This can distort the shape of the cornea, causing a condition called astigmatism. The result can be blurred vision.
A pterygium is a growth that develops on the conjunctiva or mucous membrane that covers the white part of your eye. It is a benign or noncancerous growth that is often shaped like a wedge. In some cases, a pterygium can extend to the cornea. This is the clear part of your eye that covers your iris and pupil. Pterygia usually don’t cause problems or require treatment, although they can be removed if they interfere with your vision.
Pterygium Symptoms, Causes and Treatment. A pterygium is a fleshy triangular area of tissue, usually on the inner corner of the eye, that can also grow onto the cornea. Sometimes, it extends toward the center of the cornea so that it interferes with vision. As the pterygium develops, it may warp the cornea, causing astigmatism.