By David Cohen on Mar. 27, 2014 - 12:11 PM. Some Facebook pages in Italy are being prompted to add an “impressum” — or a legally mandated statement of the ownership and authorship of a document — to their page descriptions. Reader Veronica Gentili shared the screenshots above and below with AllFacebook.
You can see many updates on friends wall of What means of Facebook Impressum in English, What I add info or fill the info in Facebook Impressum section. It is not an English word, It’s a Latin word and mostly using in German counties. It is the term given to a legally mandated statement of the authorship or ownership of an any document or for any online property like websites, applications.
An Impressum is a legally mandated statement of the ownership and authorship of a document, which must be included in books, newspapers, magazines and websites published in Germany and certain other German-speaking countries, such as Austria and Switzerland. 
Meaning of impressum. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word impressum. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word impressum and, of course, impressum synonyms and on the right images related to the word impressum. Synonyms of impressum. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word impressum. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word impressum and, of course, impressum synonyms and on the right images related to the word impressum.
Definition of impressum. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word impressum. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word impressum and, of course, impressum synonyms and on the right images related to the word impressum. Synonyms of impressum. Here you will find one or more explanations in English for the word impressum. Also in the bottom left of the page several parts of wikipedia pages related to the word impressum and, of course, impressum synonyms and on the right images related to the word impressum.
Impressum. An Impressum is a legally mandated statement of the ownership and authorship of a document, which must be included in books, newspapers, magazines and websites published in Germany and certain other German-speaking countries, such as Austria and Switzerland.
He was looking for strawberries. Impressum is a fabulous German word that appears in the footer of most websites in the .de domain, the loose translation of which is a combination of ‘ legal notice ‘ and ‘ site information ‘. Its literal twin in English is ‘ imprint ‘, which of course means ‘ a mark made by pressure’ . 
But when you will see Impressum section, Maybe you will thing that what I add info in the Impressum section. Because it’s a Latin word, You can see any apps for Facebook impressum generator English But don’t worry, you can do it easily, Jut adds a few words about your services in that section. It is not an English word, It’s a Latin word and mostly using in German counties. It is the term given to a legally mandated statement of the authorship or ownership of an any document or for any online property like websites, applications.
An Impressum (Latin `printed`, from imprimĕre `to print`) is the term given to a legally mandated statement of the ownership and authorship of a document, which must be included in books, newspapers, magazines and websites published in Germany and certain other German-speaking countries, such as Austria and Switzerland. 