In the case of humans, this means that parent cells have two chromosomes and gametes have one. During fertilization, gametes from the sperm combine with gametes from the egg to form a zygote. The zygote contains two sets of 23 chromosomes, for the required 46. The father’s sperm contains about half X and half Y chromosomes. The sperm are the variable factor in determining the sex of the baby. If the sperm carries an X chromosome, it will combine with the egg’s X chromosome to form a female zygote. If the sperm carries a Y chromosome, it will result in a male.
Humans normally have 46 chromosomes in each cell, divided into 23 pairs. Two copies of chromosome 7, one copy inherited from each parent, form one of the pairs. Chromosome 7 spans about 159 million DNA building blocks (base pairs) and represents more than 5 percent of the total DNA in cells. Identifying genes on each chromosome is an active area of genetic research.
1 Your baby was supposed to have 23 pairs of chromosomes but will now have 22 pairs of chromosomes plus a set of three chromosomes. 2  Trisomy is the condition in which a baby has three copies of one chromosome. 3  Trisomy is a genetic condition, but it does not always mean that you will surely pass it down to your baby. 
Compaction of the duplicated chromosomes during cell division (mitosis or meiosis) results either in a four-arm structure (pictured to the right) if the centromere is located in the middle of the chromosome or a two-arm structure if the centromere is located near one of the ends. Sexually reproducing species have somatic cells (body cells), which are diploid [2n] having two sets of chromosomes (23 pairs in humans with one set of 23 chromosomes from each parent), one set from the mother and one from the father. Gametes, reproductive cells, are haploid [n]: They have one set of chromosomes.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of chromosome): sex chromosome ((genetics) a chromosome that determines the sex of an individual). autosome; somatic chromosome (any chromosome that is not a sex chromosome; appear in pairs in body cells but as single chromosomes in spermatozoa). acentric chromosome (a chromosome lacking a centromere). The noun CHROMOSOME has 1 sense: 1. a threadlike body in the cell nucleus that carries the genes in a linear order. Familiarity information: CHROMOSOME used as a noun is very rare.
Every species has a characteristic number of chromosomes; humans have 23 pairs (22 pairs of autosomal, or nonsex, chromosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes). Human chromosomes consist primarily of DNA. During cell division (see meiosis, mitosis), chromosomes are distributed evenly among daughter cells. The term chromosome is usually reserved for the structure when it is condensed and readily visible during cell division (see mitosis). At other times the chromosome appears as a fibrous structure, called the chromonema, consisting of accumulations (called chromomeres) of chromatin, the dye-absorbing material.
Chromosome. A chromosome is an organized structure of DNA, protein, and RNA found in cells. It is a single piece of coiled DNA containing many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. Chromosomes also contain DNA-bound proteins, which serve to package the DNA and control its functions. 
Normally, a baby inherits 23 chromosomes from each parent, for a total of 46. Each chromosome matches the corresponding chromosome from the other parent, forming 23 numbered pairs. 
A chromosome (chromo- + -some) is a packaged and organized structure containing most of the DNA of a living organism. Sexually reproducing species have somatic cells (body cells), which are diploid [2n] having two sets of chromosomes (23 pairs in humans with one set of 23 chromosomes from each parent), one set from the mother and one from the father. Gametes, reproductive cells, are haploid [n]: They have one set of chromosomes.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Someone who has an extra chromosome has 47 total chromosomes instead of the typical 46, or 23 from each parent. This results in a condition known as trisomy. Trisomy is associated with mental retardation and often death, depending on which chromosome has malfunctioned. 