The Kohinoor diamond numbers among the most famous diamonds in the world. It was discovered in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh and has passed through the hands of Hindu, Turkic, Mughal, Sikh, Afghan and British rulers in its long history. 
Download. The Lust and Curse of the Koh-i-Noor Diamond of India: By: Bipin Shah Introduction: “Shyamantaka Mani” or Kohinoor Diamond of India-Largest in world 787 carats The Diamonds are forever and represent always a great manifestation of love to a lady who receives it from her lover. Nadir Shah, the ruler of Iran invaded India in 1739 AD and took the Koh-i-Noor diamond with peacock throne from Mogul of India. It came into Ahmed Shah Durrani’s (also Known as 19 Abdali) possession, who was the successor.
The Mountain of Light or Koh-i-Noor (Persian) is a diamond that was mined at Kollur Mine, in the present state of Andhra Pradesh in India. It was originally 793 carats when uncut. Once the largest known diamond, it is now a 105.6 metric carat diamond, weighing 21.6 grammes in its most recent cut state. In 1852, Albert the Prince Consort ordered it cut down from 186 carats. The diamond was originally owned by the Kakatiya dynasty, which had installed it in a temple of a Hindu goddess as her eye
Koh-i-Noor. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The gem called the Koh-i-Noor which was surrenderd by Shah Shuja-ul-Mulk to Maharajah Ranjit Singh and then surrendered by the Maharajah of Lahore to the Queen of England. It was originally 793 carats when uncut. Once the largest known diamond, it is now a 105.6 metric carat diamond, weighing 21.6 grammes in its most recent cut state. In 1852, Albert the Prince Consort ordered it cut down from 186 carats.
The Kohinoor originated at Golconda in the state of Andhra Pradesh in India. There is no official credit given to the person who first picked it up from the earth. India, wh … ich at the time was part of the Sun continent, that included Bangladesh, India and Pakistan. Today, the diamond is installed in the crown of the Queen Mother, now deceased, Queen Elizabeth, mother of the current Queen Elisabeth II of England. Officially, it is the property of the British Crown, which is not a person, but an office.
The Kohinoor is one of the oldest and most famous diamonds in the world. The history of the Kohinoor goes back in history to more than 5000 years ago. The current name of the diamond, Koh-i-noor is in Persian and means “Mountain of Light”. Below you will find a timeline of this priceless diamond. Up until 1304 the diamond was in the possession of the Rajas of Malwa, but back then, the diamond was still not named Kohinoor. In 1304, it belonged to the Emperor of Delhi, Allaudin Khilji. In 1339, the diamond was taken back to the city of Samarkand, where it stayed for almost 300 years.
Kohinoor Diamond Price. Exact value of the Kohinoor Diamond is not known, but in the 1500s it was considered that the diamond’s value corresponds to about half of the world’s total production costs in one day. Even if the value of the Kohinoor diamond is not known, it is part of the Crown Jewels, and the whole value of the Crown Jewels is between $10 and $12 billion.
The Kohinoor Diamond has never changed hands through a documented sale. Throughout its adventuresome and tempestuous ownership history, it has apparently always been gifted, bartered, or acquired through conquest, although there are a few gaps in the story of this remarkable stone. The British have possession of the Koh-i-noor Diamond, but Pakistan and India both claim that the diamond belongs to them. Throughout its history, the Koh-i-noor diamond has … been a spoil of war, passing between royal hands, sequentially.
The Graff pink weighs “only” 24,78 carats compared to the 106 carats that the Koh-i-noor weighs though. Even if the value of the Kohinoor diamond is not known, it is part of the Crown Jewels, and the whole value of the Crown Jewels is between $10 and $12 billion. The Kohinoor is definitely one of the more expensive diamonds in the collection. ©2015 - Kohinoor Diamond of India Privacy Policy
In the Tower of London, as part of the UK Crown Jewels The Kohinoor diamond is a part Royal Collection housed in Queen's Gallery London. Get information about the historic … al art collection at Queen's gallery London, Buckingham Palace by looking at the link in the related links. Today, the diamond is installed in the crown of the Queen Mother, now deceased, Queen Elizabeth, mother of the current Queen Elisabeth II of England. Officially, it is the property of the British Crown, which is not a person, but an office.