Mailmark is only an additional way of printing a postage indicia and it will not be a replacement to the current franking machine ‘Value’ print. Mailmark will be beneficial in a number of ways including being more cost effective than using postage stamps and maybe cheaper than a traditional franked impression. The Royal Mail have announced that MailMark (formerly EIB) can be accessed via any MailMark™ Compatible Franking Machines from April 2014 onwards. Mailmark Franking is the Royal Mails newest and most efficient Franking mark. Mailmark Franking is the Royal Mails newest and most efficient Franking mark. It supersedes the traditional ‘town and crown’ die with an even faster, machine readable 2D barcode
Mailmark™ will save you money. Royal Mail Mailmark™ for franking is now available, giving you the opportunity to have more professional looking mail and making it easier for you have the latest franking machine tariff's at all times. With its new 2D indicia, Mailmark stores all the important information within this new barcode, this means that Royal Mail can read the barcode and their machines will quickly translate the information allowing them to process your letters quickly.
Royal Mail Mailmark™ Franking Service. Mailmark Franking is the newest and most efficient franking mark. It supersedes the traditional ‘town and crown’ die with an even faster, machine readable 2D barcode. A new generation of franking. The Royal Mail has invested £70m in automating their distribution center’s to allow the reading and tracking of the new Mailmark 2D Barcode.
Mailmark™ Franking Machines. Royal Mail have delivered a new way to make your business more effective, Royal Mail Mailmark™. If this is the first time you have heard about it, then –worry not-you are ahead of time to get informed on this new technology. 
Royal Mail Mailmark – our most efficient Franking service. Royal Mail Mailmark is our newest and most efficient franking mark. Along with our lowest prices for postage, it also offers automatic price updates and a highly professional finish. It minimises incorrect pricing too, and offers access to a new Prepay Business Reply product. Find out more about Royal Mail Mailmark. 1 Cut costs. 2  Franking can significantly reduce your mailing costs. 3  For example, a franked 1st Class letter costs just 52p-that’s a saving of 11p compared to a 1st Class stamp. 4  Save time. 5  Printing postage in-house means fewer trips to the Post Office – and it’s so much faster than applying postage manually.
A – Steve – Mailmark™ is a new franking mark that enables franking customers and the Royal Mail to improve the way the mail is processed, which will provide additional benefits to everyone. 
If your franking Machine is not operational or compatible with MailMark dont panic. Mailmark is only an additional way of printing a postage indicia and it will not be a replacement to the current franking machine ‘Value’ print. Mailmark will be beneficial in a number of ways including being more cost effective than using postage stamps and maybe cheaper than a traditional franked impression.
Mailmark-franking is brought to you with the sole purpose of trying to make Royal Mail Mailmark more accessible and to spread information in the hope that every one will be more informed about royal mail mailmark. To ensure that you are completely ready click here. 
Mailmark. Mailmark™ is a new generation of franking mark that replaces the traditional ‘town and crown’ die with a 2D barcode that carries machine readable information on the user and mailpiece. Mailmark™ offers the potential to track mail location and delivery, improve reporting and management of tariffs. Mailmark will allow you to do more with your current franking budget. At this stage the pricing of Mailmark™ versus other Royal Mail tariffs is unknown, but we have been assured there will be a price difference between Mailmark and normal Franked Mail.