Composition of Fiber Reinforced Composites. Common fiber reinforced composites are composed of fibers and a matrix. Fibers are the reinforcement and the main source of strength while the matrix 'glues' all the fibers together in shape and transfers stresses between the reinforcing fibers. 
Since the days of adobe, the use of composites has evolved to commonly incorporate a structural fiber and a plastic, this is known as Fiber Reinforced Plastics, or FRP for short. Like straw, the fiber provides the structure and strength to the composite, while a plastic polymer holds the fiber together. Common types of fibers used in FRP composites include: 1  Fiberglass. 2  Carbon Fiber. 
Introduced over 50 years ago, composites are fiber-reinforced plastics used in a variety of products, applications and industries. While the term “composite” can apply to any combination of individual materials, Composites One focuses on fibers, primarily glass, that have been impregnated with a plastic resin matrix. The most common materials used in composite manufacturing are roving, chopped fiber and fabrics. Roving is supplied on a weight basis with a specified filament diameter and yield, either as single-end (one continuous strand) or multi-end (numerous strands).
This is a type of advanced composite group, which makes use of rice husk, rice hull, and plastic as ingredients. This technology involves a method of refining, blending, and compounding natural fibers from cellulosic waste streams to form a high-strength fiber composite material in a polymer matrix. This material, unlike other composites, can be recycled up to 20 times, allowing scrap FRC to be reused again and again. The failure mechanisms in FRC materials include delamination, intralaminar matrix cracking, longitudinal matrix splitting, fiber/matrix debonding, fiber pull-out, and fiber fracture.
(December 2010). A fiber-reinforced composite (FRC) is a composite building material that consists of three components: (i) the fibers as the discontinuous or dispersed phase, (ii) the matrix as the continuous phase, and (iii) the fine interphase region, also known as the interface. This material, unlike other composites, can be recycled up to 20 times, allowing scrap FRC to be reused again and again. The failure mechanisms in FRC materials include delamination, intralaminar matrix cracking, longitudinal matrix splitting, fiber/matrix debonding, fiber pull-out, and fiber fracture.
Carbon fiber (also known as carbon fibre) is one of the strongest and most lightweight materials available on the market today. Five times stronger than steel and one third its weight, carbon fiber composites are often used in aerospace and aviation, robotics, racing, and a wide variety of industrial applications. 
Fiber-reinforced composite. FRC is high-performance fiber composite achieved and made possible by cross-linking cellulosic fiber molecules with resins in the FRC material matrix through a proprietary molecular re-engineering process, yielding a product of exceptional structural properties. This material, unlike other composites, can be recycled up to 20 times, allowing scrap FRC to be reused again and again. The failure mechanisms in FRC materials include delamination, intralaminar matrix cracking, longitudinal matrix splitting, fiber/matrix debonding, fiber pull-out, and fiber fracture.
Carbon vs Fiberglass. The vast majority of fibers used in composites are carbon fiber and fiberglass. The choice of whether to use carbon or fiberglass in your application depends on many factors. Below is a breakdown of the most important carbon and fiberglass characteristics. 
1 One of the most common and familiar composite is fiberglass, in which small glass fiber are embedded within a polymeric material (normally an epoxy or polyester). 2  The glass fiber is relatively strong and stiff (but also brittle), whereas the polymer is ductile (but also weak and flexible). 
Carbon fiber cloth used in composites. Creative Commons: Erik Charlton via Flickr. Carbon fiber is, exactly what it sounds like – fiber made of carbon. But, these fibers are only a base. What is commonly referred to as carbon fiber is a material consisting of very thin filaments of carbon atoms. When bound together with plastic polymer resin by heat, pressure or in a vacuum a composite material is formed that is both strong and lightweight