1 Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 2  Cook for 10 minutes. 3  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 4  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. Ready In. 1  Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5
1 Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. Ready In. 1 
Preheat the grill to medium-high. Brush the chickens with oil and season the outside and cavities with salt and pepper. Skewer the chickens onto the rotisserie rod and grill, on the rotisserie, for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the chicken is golden brown and just cooked through. Remove from grill and let rest for 10 minutes before serving. Recipe courtesy of Bobby Flay. View All.
Photo Credit: Regarding BBQ Inc. At a cooking temperature between 300 and 350 degrees F, it takes a chicken about 20 to 30 minutes per pound to cook. A 4 pound chicken should take nearly 2 hours. When the internal temperature of the chicken reaches 175 to 180 degree F, it is time to take it off the heat. 
Cook. Ready In. 1  Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture.
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Combine 1/2 cup soy sauce, Italian dressing, and chicken wings in a large, zip-top bag. 2  Close bag and refrigerate 4 hours to overnight. 3  Preheat an outdoor grill for medium heat. 4  In a small saucepan, melt the butter. 5  Stir in the 1 teaspoon soy sauce and the hot pepper sauce. 6  Turn off heat and reserve. 
Close up basket. Attach the flat rotisserie basket to the rotisserie oven. Place the drip pan below. Turn on rotisserie to 400 degrees. Cook for 30 to 40 minutes, or until there is no redness in the chicken. For a crispier skin, brush with olive oil. Take out your flat rotisserie basket. Open it up and place chicken wings next to each other. You should be able to fit 10 to 12 wings in the basket.
1 Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. 2  Close the lid and cook for 1 to 1 1/2 hours, basting occasionally, until the internal temperature reaches 180 degrees F (83 degrees C) when taken in the thigh with a meat thermometer. Ready In. 1  Season the inside of the chicken with a pinch of salt. 2  Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 3  Cook for 10 minutes. 4  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 5 
6. Cook the chicken: Put the spit on the grill, and turn on the rotisserie motor. Cook with the lid closed. It should take 45 minutes to 1 hour 15 minutes, depending on the size of the bird. A 4 lb bird should be done in about an hour