1 Two-year programs are the most popular, and when you complete the two years (one to one and a half years if you have taken many of the prerequisite courses), you will earn an associate's degree. 2  You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 3  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 1 You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 2  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 3  Not only do they not prepare you adequately for a career as an ultrasound technician, but it will hardly matter as you will not be competitive in the job market.
If you would like to become a diagnostic medical sonographer or ultrasound technician, ultimately your goal is to complete and pass the ARDMS exam. While not all states require such certification, the majority of clinics and hospitals prefer candidates to hold this professional credential. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
An Associates Sonography Degree is a blend of coursework with hands-on clinical rotations. Many programs will offer the opportunity to specialize in one particular area of the ultrasound profession, such as General (abdomen, obstetrics and gynecology), Vascular or Cardiac. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
An associate or bachelor's degree is typically required to pursue employment as a diagnostic medical sonographer. Students also have the option to graduate with a degree in a related field, pursue a certificate program in diagnostic medical sonography and then receive on-the-job training. Learn how to become a diagnostic medical sonographer. Research the job description, education and licensing requirements to find out how to start a career in medical sonography.
Most sonographers take a two or four year college program to become accredited or they learn in-house on the job. If you have a degree in nursing, for example, you might be offered the chance to learn ultrasound technology as well. This is a wonderful way to increase your pay and your resume. To become an ultrasound technician, you don’t have to have a specific license as the program is not yet required. That said, it is nearly impossible to find a position if you don’t already have some medical training and certification from an organization like the ARDMS.
Best Answer: When thinking about entering an ultrasound program, you need not be concerned so much about certificate vs. degree. What is important is that you go to an ACCREDITED program, whether it is college or hospital based. An accredited program allows you to take your registry (licensing) exams upon graduation. There are links provided for each program, which will give you additional information (including course duration, prerequisites): http://www.caahep.org/Find_An_Accredited... Many people, myself included, go to school to become a radiologic technologist, before continuing to ultrasound school.
A sonography bachelor degree program also includes frequent clinical rotations/internships. In most cases, you will be able to specialize in a certain area of sonography in your final one or two years of the program. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
1 Note that some colleges may require you to complete a Certified Nursing Associate (CNA) course before being accepted into a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer (DMS) program. 2  If you already have a Bachelor’s degree or Associate’s degree and want to become an ultrasound technician, the diploma program may be the best option. 1 You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 2  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 3  Not only do they not prepare you adequately for a career as an ultrasound technician, but it will hardly matter as you will not be competitive in the job market.
In comparison, a public four-year college asks for nearly $5,500 annual tuition and private four-year university annual tuition can top $21,000. Fortunately, your choice of becoming an ultrasound technician or diagnostic medical sonographer (DMS) can help. In addition, the ARDMS asks for twelve months of full-time clinical ultrasound/vascular experience. If you use your DMS program for the educational requirement, you still have to document an additional twelve months of clinical ultrasound/vascular experience earned outside the two-year program.
Once you get licensed, you will never be asked about your schooling again. An employer does not care what route you take to get licensed, they just want you to have that license. Don't waste your time or money on a NON-accredited program. Upon completion and graduation from a NON-accredited program, you must work in the field of sonography for a full year prior to taking your licensing examinations. But, you will have a hard time finding an employer to hire you, unless you are licensed. There are links provided for each program, which will give you additional information (including course duration, prerequisites): http://www.caahep.org/Find_An_Accredited... Many people, myself included, go to school to become a radiologic technologist, before continuing to ultrasound school.