Stomata are present in the sporophyte generation of all land plant groups except liverworts. Dicotyledons usually have more stomata on the lower epidermis than the upper epidermis. Monocotyledons, on the other hand, usually have the same number of stomata on the two epidermes. In plants with floating leaves, stomata may be found only on the upper epidermis and submerged leaves may lack stomata entirely.
If it is a submerged leaf, no stomata will be present on either side. In botany, a stoma (also stomate; plural stomata) is a tiny opening or pore, found mostly on the under-surface (epidermis) of a plant leaf, and used for gas exchange. The pore is formed by a pair of specialized parenchyma cells known as guard cells which are responsible for regulating the size of the opening. 2 years ago. Dicotyledons usually have more stomata on the lower epidermis than the upper epidermis. As these leaves are held horizontally, upper epidermis is directly illuminated. Locating fewer stomata on the upper epidermis can then prevent excess water loss.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: In botany, a stoma (also stomate; plural stomata) is a tiny opening or pore, found mostly on the under-surface (epidermis) of a plant leaf, and used for gas exchange. Also, water vapor is released into the atmosphere through these pores in a process called transpiration. Dicotyledons usually have more stomata on the lower epidermis than the upper epidermis. As these leaves are held horizontally, upper epidermis is directly illuminated. Locating fewer stomata on the upper epidermis can then prevent excess water loss
In botany, a stoma (plural stomata), also called a stomate (plural stomates) (from Greek στόμα, mouth), is a pore, found in the epidermis of leaves, stems, and other organs, that is used to control gas exchange. Monocotyledons, on the other hand, usually have the same number of stomata on the two epidermes. In plants with floating leaves, stomata may be found only on the upper epidermis and submerged leaves may lack stomata entirely.
Below the cuticle is the epidermis. On the top of the leaf, this is known as the upper epidermis. This is a single layer of cells found directly below the cuticle. It helps protect the leaf by aiding in preventing water loss and providing an extra layer between the outside and inside of the leaf. Remember that the top of the leaf has the protective coating of the cuticle and then a layer of cells known as the upper epidermis. On the bottom of the leaf is another protective layer of cells. Because it is at the bottom of the leaf, this layer is known as the low
The upper epidermis is responsible for preventing water loss by evaporation. It does this by having a waxy cuticle on the top of the leaf. The lower epidermis has stomata, whi … ch allow gases to enter and leave the leaf as a result of photosynthesis and respiration. + 84 others found this useful. Stephanie Padilla. Because the top of the leaf is covered by the cuticle of the leaf which prevents water loss and transpiration. If there were stomata in the top of the leaf, more water wold be lost and the plant would wilt.
A stoma (pl. stomata) is a microscopic pore on the surface (epidermis) of land plants. It is surrounded by a pair of specialized epidermal cells called guard cells, which act as a turgor-driven valve that open and close the pores in response to given environmental conditions. 
Stomata and the Lower Epidermis. Remember that the top of the leaf has the protective coating of the cuticle and then a layer of cells known as the upper epidermis. On the bottom of the leaf is another protective layer of cells. Because it is at the bottom of the leaf, this layer is known as the lower epidermis.
Typically, most of the stomata (thousands per square centimeter) are located in the lower epidermis. Although most of the cells of the lower epidermis resemble those of the upper epidermis, each stoma is flanked by two sausage-shaped cells called guard cells. 