“Epilepsy” is a general term for neurological disorders that are characterized by recurrent seizures. In some cases, the seizures are caused by trauma, a toxin, a brain tumor, an infection, or an issue with your dog’s blood, kidneys, or other organs. 
Epilepsy is one of the most common serious neurological disorders affecting about 65 million people globally. It affects 1% of the population by age 20 and 3% of the population by age 75. It is more common in males than females with the overall difference being small. The cause of most cases of epilepsy is unknown, although some people develop epilepsy as the result of brain injury, stroke, brain tumor, and substance use disorders. Genetic mutations are linked to a small proportion of the disease.
Most seizures do not cause brain damage. It is not uncommon for people with epilepsy, especially children, to develop behavioral and emotional problems, sometimes the consequence of embarrassment and frustration or bullying, teasing, or avoidance in school and other social setting. Having a seizure does not necessarily mean that a person has epilepsy. Only when a person has had two or more seizures is he or she considered to have epilepsy. EEGs and brain scans are common diagnostic test for epilepsy.
Information booklet on seizures, seizure disorders, and epilepsy compiled by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS). NINDS Febrile Seizures Information Page. Febrile Seizures information sheet compiled by NINDS. Fact sheet on neurological diagnosis and testing, prepared by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS). Epilepsy Research Web. Epilepsy Research Web. White House-Initiated Conference on Epilepsy. Summary of a White House-initiated conference, Curing Epilepsy,, March 30-31, 2000.
The Nature of Epilepsy. Epilepsy, also known as seizure disorder, is a chronic neurological condition characterized by recurrent seizures. A seizure happens when abnormal electrical activity in the brain causes an involuntary change in body movement or function, sensation, awareness, or behavior. Some people have only one type of seizure, while others have more than one type. Epilepsy is referred to as a spectrum disorder because seizure types, frequency, and other symptoms can vary. Epilepsy can be caused by many different conditions that affect a person’s brain.
Page Summary. 1  Epilepsy is the fourth most common neurological disorder and affects people of all ages. 2  Epilepsy means the same thing as seizure disorders. 3  Epilepsy is characterized by unpredictable seizures and can cause other health problems. A person is diagnosed with epilepsy if they have had at least two seizures that were not caused by some known and reversible medical condition like alcohol withdrawal or extremely low blood sugar. The seizures in epilepsy may be related to a brain injury or a family tendency, but often the cause is completely unknown.
Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by recurrent, unprovoked seizures — electrical instabilities in the brain — that can range from brief lapses of attention or muscle jerks to severe and prolonged convulsions. 
Epilepsy is a neurological condition involving the brain that makes people more susceptible to having seizures. It is one of the most common disorders of the nervous system and affects people of all ages, races and ethnic background. Almost 3 million Americans live with epilepsy. 
Print. Epilepsy is a central nervous system disorder (neurological disorder) in which nerve cell activity in the brain becomes disrupted, causing seizures or periods of unusual behavior, sensations and sometimes loss of consciousness. Seizure symptoms can vary widely. 
Epilepsy is a neurological condition involving the brain that makes people more susceptible to having seizures. It is one of the most common disorders of the nervous system and affects people of all ages, races and ethnic background. More than 2.7 million Americans live with epilepsy. 