DefinitionsThere is no universally agreed-upon definition of gang in the United States. Gang, youth gang and street gang are terms widely and often interchangeably used in mainstream coverage. Reference to gangs often implies youth gangs. Federal definition. The federal definition of gang as used by the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), is 1  : An association of three or more individuals;
More. A gang is literally a group of people who ‘go about’ together. The word comes from Old Norse gangr or ganga, ‘gait, course, or going’, and is related to Scots gang ‘to go’. In early use gang meant ‘a journey’, and later developed the senses ‘way or passage’, and ‘a set of things which go together’. 1.3 An organized group of people doing manual work: a government road gang. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  This shopkeeper takes me to see a former government official who was tasked with beating tribals used for road gangs in the Karen state, in far eastern Burma.
The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. global English and language change from our blog. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of gang from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
The Imperial Gangster Nation is a gang that is apart of the Folk Nation, Imperial Gangsters formed on the north side of Chicago, IL in the mid to late 1960's. 
Some localities fail to address the need for definition or to consider elements of definitions already in use. Failing to define the terms gang and gang crime as the terms are commonly used in a community undermines the community's ability to reliably measure progress and outcomes related to gangs and gang activity. Federal definition. The federal definition of gang as used by the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), is 1  : An association of three or more individuals;
gang 1. 1. a group or band: a gang of sightseers. 2. a group of youths who associate closely for social reasons, esp. such a group engaging in delinquent behavior. 3. a group of people with compatible tastes or interests: I'm throwing a party for the gang I bowl with. 4. a group of persons working together
Full Definition of GANGSTER. : a member of a gang of criminals: racketeer. — gang·ster·dom \-dəm\ noun. — gang·ster·ish \-stə-rish\ adjective. — gang·ster·ism \-stə-ˌri-zəm\ noun. See gangster defined for English-language learners. See gangster defined for kids. 
gang·ster. n. 1. A member of an organized group of criminals; a racketeer. 2. A member of a gang of delinquents. gang′ster·dom n. gang′ster·ism n. (ˈɡaeŋstərɪzəm). ˈɡæŋstərɪzəm 