Hemangiosarcoma is a highly malignant cancerous tumor that originates from blood vessels often in the spleen or heart although may occur in any blood vessels in the body. The cancer commonly spreads to other organs including liver, lungs, heart, brain, spinal cord, skin, and muscles. 
Hemangiosarcoma is a rapidly growing, highly invasive variety of cancer, occurring almost exclusively in dogs and rarely in cats. It is a sarcoma arising from the lining of blood vessels; that is, blood-filled channels and spaces are commonly observed microscopically. It also occurs in cats, but is much rarer. Dogs with hemangiosarcoma rarely show clinical signs until the tumor has become very large and has metastasized. Typically, clinical signs are due to hypovolemia after the tumor ruptures, causing extensive bleeding.
Hemangiosarcoma is an aggressive, malignant tumor that affects the blood vessels lining cells. Although hemangiosarcoma could theoretically arise from any tissue where there are blood vessels, the most common location is the spleen. Other primary locations include the heart, liver, skin and bone. These tumors are typically classified as dermal, subcutaneous or hypodermal, and visceral. Dermal hemangiosarcoma is associated with sun exposure. It is uncertain what causes other types of hemangiosarcoma, but in humans exposure to certain chemicals, such as vinyl chloride, has been implicated.
Hemangiosarcoma in dogs is an aggressive, malignant cancer of the blood vessels. Dogs are more affected by hemangiosarcoma than any other species of animal. Because it affects blood vessels, this type of cancer is often associated with sudden internal bleeding, which can be life-threatening for your dog. 
Hemangiosarcoma is quite common in dogs, and more so in certain breeds of dogs including German Shepherd Dogs and Golden Retrievers. It also occurs in cats, but is much rarer. Dogs with hemangiosarcoma rarely show clinical signs until the tumor has become very large and has metastasized. Typically, clinical signs are due to hypovolemia after the tumor ruptures, causing extensive bleeding.
Hemangiosarcoma in dogs and cats is a malignant, soft tissue cancer of the blood vessel lining. Areas of involvement most commonly include the spleen and/or heart. Other areas of the body that may be affected include the lungs, skin, intestine, liver, kidneys, bladder, mouth, and bones. Exposure to the sun may be a risk factor for some cats in developing hemangiosarcoma of the skin. 1  Hemangiosarcoma is a very aggressive, malignant cancer that most commonly affects the heart and spleen, but spread to other organs is also possible.
How Hemangiosarcoma Affects Dogs. While it is difficult to say with certainty how a dog with hemangiosarcoma is affected by its condition, reports from people with this disease, and observations of dogs, suggest that hemangiosarcoma usually causes a great deal of discomfort and pain, especially in the later stages. Owners of dogs with hemangiosarcoma may notice a number of different symptoms, depending upon where the cancer started and the extent to which it has metastasized. Often, the initial signs of hemangiosarcoma are chalked up to old age, changes in weather or alterations in the dog’s living environment.
Hemangiosarcoma (HSA) is an aggressive, malignant cancer of the blood vessels that often grows as a mass in the spleen, liver, or heart, but can also be found in other parts in the body. Animals usually present to their veterinarian for sudden collapse due to internal bleeding from the mass. 
Hemangiosarcoma is a cancer of the blood vessels which make it prone to metastasize and spread through the blood stream very easily. Because of this, it’s extremely important to take action immediately once diagnosed. 
OVERVIEW. Hemangiosarcoma is a very aggressive, high-grade soft tissue sarcoma with the most common areas affected being the spleen and heart. A highly malignant cancer which preys on blood vessels, it can spread rapidly, causing tumors almost anywhere in the body. The spleen and the right atrium of the heart are the most common sites of occurrence of visceral Hemangiosarcoma. Dogs may have nonspecific signs such as lethargy, loss of appetite, weight loss or more specific signs such as difficulty breathing, pallor, or abdominal fluid.