Angelina Jolie. s_bukley / Shutterstock.com. American actress, director, and humanitarian Angelina Jolie is one of the most graceful, compassionate human rights activists of our time. Making her mark on Hollywood at a young age, Jolie began to embrace philanthropic work while filming in Cambodia in the early 2000s. Since then, she has spent years dedicated to improving the quality of life for people around the globe, using her immense celebrity to bring attention to important causes.
There is a special section dedicated to relationships in the new age: astrology, psychic, tarot, dreams, spells, etc. Disclaimer: This information about Angelina Jolie is derived from astrological interpretation of Angelina Jolie's date, time, and place of birth. 
If you are looking for the address of Angelina Jolie then you are at the right place where you can easily get the desired information which you are looking for. Here provides the complete contact detail of Angelina Jolie which includes: address of Angelina Jolie, phone number of Angelina Jolie, email and website of Angelina Jolie. Below, we are showing the contact address of Angelina Jolie. The address of the Angelina Jolie is 9200 Sunset Boulevard, Suite 810, West Hollywood, CA 90069, USA you can go through with this address detail for contacting Angelina Jolie for their queries. you can contact Angelina Jolie via telephone or mobile phone as shown below
Angelina Jolie is an Oscar-winning actress who became popular after playing the title role in the Lara Croft blockbuster movies, as well as Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010) and Maleficent (2014). 
Proceeding from interviews with some of the most powerful people on the planet—including Bill Gates, Bill Clinton, George Soros, Angelina Jolie, and Bono, among others—they show how a web of wealthy, motivated donors has set out to change the world. Related charity news and events 189. Angelina Jolie has joined with Arminka Helic – former refugee and current member of the House of Lords – to write an article for The Times about the families fleeing violence in the Middle East.
Angelina Jolie Contact Information. Angelina Jolie contact information is available for you to look at. We have Angelina Jolie’s manager information, along with her booking agents info as well. If you want the Angelina Jolie’s email address for her management team, or booking agency, we have that available for you to view by signing up. You can find the Angelina Jolie booking info and booking price here: 
Angelina Jolie's personal address. Please note that this is not Angelina Jolie's home address. Of course you can see why we can't post the personal or home address of Angelina Jolie. In all events, it's never a good idea to attempt to contact a celebrity at their private, personal address. Please feel free to share you experience with other fans, and to give advise. Also, if you have additional contact addresses for Angelina Jolie, do not hesitate to complete this topic with your information. On the other hand, if you managed to use one of the above addresses successfully, please let us know so we can keep this page up-to-date
Jolie is on the board of advisors for the Yele Yéle Haiti, foundation and With Brad pitt took time to Help Wyclef jean with His Clean streets. Project jolie also arranged a deal With People magazine allowing them to print the first picture showing her visibly pregnant in exchange for a500,000 500000 donation to the. charity Related charity news and events 189. Angelina Jolie has joined with Arminka Helic – former refugee and current member of the House of Lords – to write an article for The Times about the families fleeing violence in the Middle East.