ASCII, or the American Standard Code for the Information Interchange, is the name of a character-encoding scheme based on the English alphabet. Codes in ASCII represent text i … n computers and communication devices that use text. All alphanumeric means is a mix of letters (alpha, as in alphabet)  and numbers (numeric, as in numerals). An example would be  3443jsn22s. + 357 others found this useful. Ernest Mokaya.
Alphanumeric means alphabetic or number characters are valid entries. For example, if a data element is defined as a 12-character alphanumeric, it could contain any 12 letter … or number characters: abzy1298pqrs. 2 people found this useful. All alphanumeric means is a mix of letters (alpha, as in alphabet)  and numbers (numeric, as in numerals). An example would be  3443jsn22s. + 357 others found this useful. Ernest Mokaya.
all alphanumeric characters are is all the letters and numbers on a keyboard that can be used to make up a password, email or something in that manner. Alphanumeric means alphabetic or number characters are valid entries. For example, if a data element is defined as a 12-character alphanumeric, it could contain any 12 letter … or number characters: abzy1298pqrs.
All alphanumeric means is a mix of letters (alpha, as in alphabet) and numbers (numeric, as in numerals). An example would be 3443jsn22s. Alphanumeric means alphabetic or number characters are valid entries. For example, if a data element is defined as a 12-character alphanumeric, it could contain any 12 letter … or number characters: abzy1298pqrs.
(Minimum complex characters is 3). The Require alphanumeric password (2010/2007) and Require both numbers and letters (2003) settings specify whether or not the device password should consist of letters, numbers, and special characters. Exchange Server 2010/2007 has a Minimum number of complex characters setting which allows you to choose the number of each type of complex character which must exist in an alphanumeric device password.
The term alphanumeric refers to any term that is composed of letters and/or numbers, and would therefore include such things as: leep87gr231, elb7ty987ghy, and so forth. Alpha … numeric terms are often used as passwords. 3 people found this useful. Alphanumeric means alphabetic or number characters are valid entries. For example, if a data element is defined as a 12-character alphanumeric, it could contain any 12 letter … or number characters: abzy1298pqrs.
adjective. The definition of alphanumeric is something that contains letters and numbers. 1  A password that requires both letters and numbers is an example of an alphanumeric password. 2  A computer keyboard is an example of an alphanumeric keyboard. 
all alphanumeric characters are is all the letters and numbers on a keyboard that can be used to make up a password, email or something in that manner. All alphanumeric means is a mix of letters (alpha, as in alphabet)  and numbers (numeric, as in numerals). An example would be  3443jsn22s. + 357 others found this useful. Ernest Mokaya.
For example, if the minimum complex character requirement is two (2), the user will be required to create a password containing at least two (2) lowercase letters, at least two (2) uppercase letters, at least two (2) numerals, and at least two (2) special characters. Exchange Server 2010/2007 has a Minimum number of complex characters setting which allows you to choose the number of each type of complex character which must exist in an alphanumeric device password.