The inguinal canal is a short passage that extends inferiorly and medially, through the inferior part of the abdominal wall. It is superior and parallel to the inguinal ligament. It acts as a pathway by which structures can pass from the abdominal wall to the external genitalia. 
The superficial inguinal ring (subcutaneous inguinal ring or external inguinal ring) is an anatomical structure in the anterior wall of the mammalian abdomen. At the other end of the canal, the deep inguinal ring forms the entrance. It is found within the aponeurosis of the external oblique, immediately above the crest of the pubis, 1 centimeter above and medial to the pubic tubercle.
1 deep inguinal ring: a round opening in the transversalis fascia found 1cm superior to the inguinal ligament and 1 cm lateral to the inferior epigastric arteries. 2  superficial inguinal ring: a V-shaped opening in the external oblique aponeurosis that is superior and medial to the pubic tubercle 1, 2. Gross anatomy. The inguinal canal has an oblique course, is 4cm in length and has two openings: 1 
The Inguinal Canal  The inguinal canal transmits the vas deferens in the male and the round ligament in the female.  The deep ring is the entrance to the inguinal canal on the inside of the abdominal wall.  The deep ring is formed in the transversalis fascia. At the superficial ring the inguinal canal passes through the external oblique aponeurosis and receives a layer from the aponeurosis, the external spermatic fascia in the male.  The deep inguinal ring lies lateral to the inferior epigastricvessels. The superficial ring lies above and medial to the pubic tubercle.
Deep inguinal ring is an oval opening in the transversalis fascia (fascia lining the transversus abdominis muscle). It is the entrance to the inguinal canal and lies about half inch above the inguinal ligament near its midpoint. Boundaries of deep inguinal ring: 1  The ring is bounded above and laterally by the arched lower margin of transversalis fascia. 2  Below and medially, it is bound by the inferior epigastric vessels.
It is a triangular opening that forms the exit of the inguinal canal, which houses the ilioinguinal nerve, the genital branch of the genitofemoral nerve, and the spermatic cord (in men) or the round ligament (in women). At the other end of the canal, the deep inguinal ring forms the entrance. It is found within the aponeurosis of the external oblique, immediately above the crest of the pubis, 1 centimeter above and medial to the pubic tubercle.
The inguinal canal is a passage in the anterior abdominal wall that transmits structures from the pelvis to the perineum. The inguinal canal has an oblique course, is 4cm in length and has two openings: Gross anatomy. The inguinal canal has an oblique course, is 4cm in length and has two openings: 1  deep inguinal ring: a round opening in the transversalis fascia found 1cm superior to the inguinal ligament and 1 cm lateral to the inferior epigastric arteries.
Medical students are commonly unable to observe the superficial and deep inguinal rings as open. It must be kept in mind that the external spermatic fascia is attached to the margins of superficial inguinal ring and the internal spermatic fascia is attached to the margins of deep inguinal ring. Boundaries of deep inguinal ring: 1  The ring is bounded above and laterally by the arched lower margin of transversalis fascia. 2  Below and medially, it is bound by the inferior epigastric vessels.
The inguinal canal is a passage in the anterior abdominal wall that in men conveys the spermatic cord and in women the round ligament of uterus. The inguinal canal is larger and more prominent in men. There is one inguinal canal on each side of the midline. 
Deep inguinal ring transmits the spermatic cord (in males) or the round ligament of the uterus (in females). The deep inguinal ring is of an oval form, with its long axis being vertical. Boundaries of deep inguinal ring: 1  The ring is bounded above and laterally by the arched lower margin of transversalis fascia. 2  Below and medially, it is bound by the inferior epigastric vessels.