2) Parvovirus vaccination probably lasts for life if good immunity is ever achieved. In most dogs, a single injection of a modified live parvovirus vaccine given after twelve weeks of age (new high titer vaccines) or sixteen weeks of age (older vaccines) will confer immunity.
Effective vaccination is possible. Parvovirus is predominantly a disease of young puppies between 6 weeks and 6 months of age. Without treatment approximately 80% of affected puppies will die. With proper treatment approximately 85% of affected puppies will live.
Like many viruses, parvovirus has an incubation period, or a period of time that it builds up in the body prior to the time that clinical signs appear. For parvovirus, this time period is at least four days and may be as long as seven days.
Dogs catch canine parvovirus, which causes the disease known as parvo, from exposure to infected dogs, their feces, or objects/areas contaminated with their feces. Treatment is supportive and potentially expensive; left untreated the virus is often deadly.
Obviously, a parvo-infected dog must be isolated to prevent spreading the virus. Vaccinating Your Dog Against Parvo Make sure your puppy receives the core vaccines. My vaccine protocol at Natural Pet is to give one parvo vaccine at around 9 weeks (but before 11 weeks), and a booster at around 14 weeks.
Additional Protection from Infection. It generally takes from 10 to 14 days after parvo vaccination for adequate protection to develop. Unfortunately, if a puppy is exposed to parvo either before vaccination or in that 10 to 14 day window before sufficient immunity has kicked in, it is usually fatal.
Most veterinarians recommend that a puppy receive his first parvovirus vaccination when he is 8 weeks old. The second vaccination is given in three to four weeks, about age 11 to 12 weeks. A third vaccination is given in three to four more weeks, about age 14 to 15 weeks.
1 Initial adult vaccination (and for puppies older than 16 weeks of age) ideally consists of two vaccines three to four weeks apart, though one vaccine is considered protective. 2  All dogs should receive one vaccine one year after the final puppy vaccination.
Generally, the first vaccine is given at 6-8 weeks of age and a booster is given at four-week intervals until the puppy is 16-20 weeks of age, and then again at one year of age. A puppy’s vaccination program is not complete before four months of age.