Flatworms also have a feature that the sponges and cnidarians do not, a middle layer of actual organized cells. Flatworms have three cell layers: an ectoderm, an outer covering like the other groups have; an endoderm, a lining of the digestive spaces somewhat like a cnidarians; and a mesoderm between the other two. With actual tissues protected like this, another evolutionary explosion of features happened.
Animals with a complete digestive system are those in which the digestive tract has two openings, a mouth and an anus (including all other animal phyla, with the exception of poriferans, which do not have any digestive tract). In animals with incomplete digestive tracts, digestion is mixed. 
The Trematoda is also known as a fluke and is an endoparasite meaning that they live in their host's body. Their digestive system is similar to the Turbellarian digestive system but they don't have the Turbellarian's extensible pharynx. It works but sucking food into the intestine where phagocytic cells of the gastrodermis complete digestion. The Cestoda, one of the three classes of the Platyhelmthes, does not have a digestive system and the rest of the parasitic classes rely on the host for digestion.
The Platyhelmthes is divided into three different classes including Turbellaria, Trematoda, and Cestoda. This phylum does not have a skeletal, circulatory, and respiratory system but does have an excretory system where the flatworm uses flame cells and its associated ducts to regulate its excretory system. It works but sucking food into the intestine where phagocytic cells of the gastrodermis complete digestion. The Cestoda, one of the three classes of the Platyhelmthes, does not have a digestive system and the rest of the parasitic classes rely on the host for digestion.
The platyhelminthes phylum have different types of species found inside of the phylum. It has three different classes Turbellaria which includes free living flat worms. They usually live in fresh water or saltwater they are very versatile. The second is Trematoda which are flukes, external and internal parasites. 
PLATYHELMINTHES DIGESTIVE SYSTEM. This Phylum, as mentioned before, has a different and unique kind of digestive system compared to other flatworms. This is because it only has one opening for it's digestive system which is also used for it's mouth but not anus making their digestive tract incomplete. The Platyhelmthes uses it's mouth, pharynx, and intestine for its digestive system. It works but sucking food into the intestine where phagocytic cells of the gastrodermis complete digestion. The Cestoda, one of the three classes of the Platyhelmthes, does not have a digestive system and the rest of the parasitic classes rely on the host for digestion.
The type of muscle in the digestive system is smooth muscle, one of  the types of involuntary muscles. Smooth muscle found in the  urinary bladder, gallbladder, arteries, ve … ins, and the digestive  tract. Confidence votes 30. flatworms have incomplete digestive systems and they present extracellular and intracellular complementary digestions. They have sac like digestive system, one opening mouth and anus. Which means they're digestive systems aren't completely grown.
(Answer #1). The digestive system of flatworms is incomplete, not fully developed, yet more advanced than in any other simple livings, therefore, they complete their digestion by means of extracellular and intracellular activity. The complete digestive system of the flatworms consists of mouth, a tube similar to pharynx and the intestine that could be branched to enlarge the area of absoption of nutrients.