Because the measles, mumps, and rubella viruses in the MMR vaccine are weak versions of the disease viruses, they may cause a very mild case of the dis-ease they were designed to prevent; however, it is usually much milder than the natural disease and is referred to as an adverse reaction to the vaccine. 
Mumps is a contagious disease caused by a virus. Anyone who has not had mumps or been vaccinated can get the disease. There is no treatment for mumps, and it can cause long-term health problems. You can protect yourself and your family against mumps with vaccination
vaccine is a three-in-one needle that protects against measles, mumps and rubella (German measles). It should be given to children soon after their first birthday. A second dose is given in combination with varicella (chicken pox), as. (a four-in-one needle) at 4-6 years of age. Vaccination against measles, mumps and rubella is required by law for all children attending school in Ontario (unless exempted). This vaccine should also be given to adults who are not protected against measles, mumps or rubella. 
Measles is a disease caused by a virus that is spread through the air by breathing, coughing, or sneezing. Measles virus is highly contagious and can remain so for up to 2 hours in the air or on surfaces. Symptoms of measles are rash, high fever, cough, runny nose, and red, watery eyes. Measles remains a common disease in many parts of the world, including Europe, the Middle East, Asia, the Pacific, and Africa. In the United States, most measles cases result from international travel. The disease is brought into the United States by people who get infected in other countries.
Yes. All children should receive the mumps vaccine which is usually given as measles/mumps/rubella (MMR) shot. The first dose given is given at 12-15 months of age, and a second dose is recommended at 4 to 6 years of age. Mumps is a highly contagious disease caused by infection with a virus. Infection with the mumps virus results in tenderness and swelling of the salivary glands in the cheeks and neck.
Side effects of the vaccine. You can't get mumps from the MMR vaccine, and most people experience no side effects from the vaccine. A few may experience a mild fever or rash, and some people (mostly adults) have achy joints afterward for a short time. Less than one out of 1 million doses causes a serious allergic reaction. The mumps vaccine is usually given as a combined measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) inoculation, which contains the safest and most effective form of each vaccine. Two doses of the MMR vaccine are recommended before a child enters school: 1  The first between ages 12 and 15 months
Measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine can protect children (and adults) from all three of these diseases. Thanks to successful vaccination programs these diseases are much less common in the U.S. than they used to be. MMR vaccine may be given at the same time as other vaccines. Children between 1 and 12 years of age can get a combination vaccine called MMRV, which contains both MMR and varicella (chickenpox) vaccines. There is a separate Vaccine Information Statement for MMRV. Top of Page.
A: Mumps can be prevented by vaccination. In Ireland the MMR vaccine is provided with the measles and rubella vaccinations (MMR) at the age of 12-15 months and 4-5 years. It is a good idea for individuals to keep records of their own vaccination status for future reference. A: Parotid swelling can be caused by other viruses and diseases as well, so you may not be protected. Having a laboratory diagnosis (through either a blood or salivary test) is the only certain way to diagnose mumps infection. If you had a laboratory diagnosis of mumps you will not get infected.