Be careful when you reference the location of the JavaScript file. You can place them in a separate directory and then reference them all from there, e.g., /javascripts/popUps.js. An important tip to remember is that, when placed within the Web page itself, the script is enclosed in a different type of script tags. There you have it.
I am trying to add a reference to the jQuery source files and do not have access to the raw source code. Working with a vendor application that is managed through an administrative area. – Michael Kniskern Oct 18 '10 at 22:29. I was able to add a reference to the java script in some of the HTML code managed through the UI. – Michael Kniskern Oct 18 '10 at 22:34.
Theres a plugin for jquery where you can just include the files you need into some other js file, here is the link for it http://tobiasz123.wordpress.com/2007/08/01/include-script-inclusion-jquery-plugin/ . Also this document.write line will write the script tags in the html not in your js file. From what I understood from the question.. you have a jquery code but you want it in a different .js file. I apologize if thats not the case. But if thats the case then here is what I did. I had the following in my html file: I created a seprate my_jquery.js file and the contents are: And this is working very fine.
Create a javascript file (.js) and put in the below code, and map this javascript file to all the pages (instead of mapping jquery file directly on the page), so when the jquery file link is updated on this javascript file it will reflect across the site. From what I understood from the question.. you have a jquery code but you want it in a different .js file. I apologize if thats not the case. But if thats the case then here is what I did. I had the following in my html file: I created a seprate my_jquery.js file and the contents are: And this is working very fine.
What you should be ideally doing is refer both the javascript files onto the same target page, so the javascript functions on both .js file can make use of each other. For example if there are two files javas1.js and javas2.js, then add both the reference to the target web page as shown below. You can add reference to another javascript file inside another javascript file for adding intellisense for other javascript files in Visual studio. You can do so using the following syntax: and to Add Microsoft Ajax reference to javascript file:
Re-add javacript file reference in another javascript file-Lalit M replied to Eswaran Radhakrishnan on 02-Dec-09 05:20 AM. You can add reference to another javascript file inside another javascript file for adding intellisense for other javascript files in Visual studio. You can do so using the following syntax: and to Add Microsoft Ajax reference to javascript file: for details about http://weblogs.asp.net/scottgu/archive/2008/11/21/jquery-intellisense-in-vs-2008.aspx
The reference directive lets you include a script file in the scripting context of the current script file. This enables IntelliSense to reference externally defined functions, types, and fields as you code. You create a reference directive in the form of an XML comment. You can instruct Visual Studio to download remote JavaScript files that are referenced in a JavaScript file in order to provide IntelliSense support for the remote file or library. When you use this feature, files will download when you include them as a reference in your JavaS
How do I reference a javascript file in .net. Jul 07, 2010 12:05 PM |sephiroth100 |LINK. Hello, I have a hquery plugin that consists of jquery itself, 2 .js files and some script to configure the plug-in which resides on the page. I noticed that in .net you can create a .js file.
Add Reference of jQuery Files in Custom js File. By Sachin Kalia on Apr 08, 2013. In this article I am sharing my thoughts on adding a reference file to a solution to get the functionality of a specific .js file. Its very simple, you need to create a simple ASP.Net application that requires a jQuery script file. jQuery provides you ample functions to create impressive animations and interactions. 
In if you want to add reference to any js file, say, from your project, you may also add it directly using reference tag, in Visual Studio IDE this is handled automatically by dragging and dropping the external file from solution explorer to current file (This works for mark up files, .js & .css files too). From what I understood from the question.. you have a jquery code but you want it in a different .js file. I apologize if thats not the case. But if thats the case then here is what I did. I had the following in my html file: I created a seprate my_jquery.js file and the contents are: And this is working very fine.