Welcome to Halfords. Click here to view the Halfords Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement. For more than 110 years Halfords has been synonymous with travel. We are the UK’s leading retailer of automotive and cycling products and also a leading independent operator in car servicing and repair. 
I would contact the charity you are going to raise funds for. they will probably have links with possible sponsors and in any case, they will want to know what someone is doing in their name. Source(s): Charity consultant. fengirl2 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. 
Team Dynamics, the most successful and longest running independent team in the British Touring Car Championship, has announced its brand new set-up with title sponsor Halfords returning for a second year. The West Midlands based squad have once again recruited leading national retailer Halfords as main sponsor with a host of Halfords suppliers supporting the challenge for the 2005 title. Castrol, Bosch, Simoniz, Blaupunkt, Snooper and Team Dynamics Alloy Wheels will all be supporting the charge for the finish line.
As The Tour Series has a headline sponsor in Halfords it was essential to ensure their branding as well as that of all our other partners and sponsors was of paramount importance. MediaCo will be supplying all aspects of branding for both the Halfords Tour Series and Tour of Britain for the next 3 years, supporting the successfully sponsored events with high quality yet practical branding solutions.
Halfords Group is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index. A similar retail company also called Halfords exists in the Netherlands and Belgium. This only has historical ties to the British Halfords Group (it was formed by Halfords, then sold). In 2007, Halfords sponsored the Team Dynamics BTCC racing team under the name of Team Halfords and in 2008, Halfords started sponsoring a mixed professional bike team, Team Halfords Bikehut, headed by Nicole Cooke, which disbanded ahead of the 2010 season.
Tweet. Halfords Autocentres has renewed its 'Happy Motoring' sponsorship strand on Dave and Dave Ja Vu for a further twelve months from February 2014. This will be the third successive year that Halfords has partnered with the Dave TV channel which is famed for its witty banter. The sponsorship on Dave and Dave Ja Vu will see ‘idents’ providing up to 80 seconds of accreditation for the brand during each hour of motoring programming.
Tweet. Halfords has launched a series of sponsored idents on TV channel Dave this week to promote its We Fit service for the fitting of car parts, child seats, satellite navigation and in-car entertainment systems. 
On 11 July 2005, Halfords entered into a Collaboration Agreement with Autobacs Seven Co. , a Japan-based car accessory retailer with chains of stores all over the world and who is best known in other countries that do not have an Autobacs store for being the title sponsorship of Super GT and D1 Grand Prix. In 2007, Halfords sponsored the Team Dynamics BTCC racing team under the name of Team Halfords and in 2008, Halfords started sponsoring a mixed professional bike team, Team Halfords Bikehut, headed by Nicole Cooke, which disbanded ahead of the 2010 season.
Halfords Group plc is a retailer of car parts, car enhancement, camping, touring and bicycles operating in the UK and Ireland. They also provide MOT, service and repairs in the United Kingdom, through Halfords Autocentre. In 2007, Halfords sponsored the Team Dynamics BTCC racing team under the name of Team Halfords and in 2008, Halfords started sponsoring a mixed professional bike team, Team Halfords Bikehut, headed by Nicole Cooke, which disbanded ahead of the 2010 season.