The main organs of the human body are the skin, liver, brain,  lungs, heart, kidneys, spleen, pancreas, thyroid and prostate.  Other important organs in healthy individuals … are the gall bladder,  large intestines and small intestines. 5 people found this useful. 
Vital organs. Humans have five vital organs that are essential for survival. These are the brain, heart, kidneys, liver, and lungs. The human brain is the body's control center, receiving and sending signals to other organs through the nervous system and through secreted hormones.
The General Assembly is the main deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of the UN. All 193 Member States of the UN are represented in the General Assembly, making it the only UN body with universal representation. The main organs of the UN are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice, and the UN Secretariat. All were established in 1945 when the UN was founded.
In biology, an organ or viscus is a collection of tissues joined in a structural unit to serve a common function. In anatomy, a viscus /ˈvɪskəs/ is an internal organ, and viscera is the plural form. Organs are composed of main tissue, parenchyma, and sporadic tissues, stroma. The main tissue is that which is unique for the specific organ, such as the myocardium, the main tissue of the heart, while sporadic tissues include the nerves, blood vessels, and connective tissues. Functionally related organs often cooperate to form whole organ systems. 
Skin. The skin is the largest organ in the human body. Its main job is to maintain the body's temperature, which means that sweat is created to cool the body, and goosebumps or raised hair occur to trap heat in the body. Along with sweat glands, the skin contains oil glands. 
The main tissue is the one that is unique for the specific organ. For example, main tissue in the heart is the myocardium, while sporadic are the nerves, blood, connective etc.. Functionally related organs often cooperate to form whole organ systems. There are 10 major organ systems in the human body. List of Organs in human body: 1  Heart. 2  Brain. 3  Lungs. 4  Liver.
A diagram of a kidney, a major part of the urinary system. Several abdominal organs, including the pancreas, liver, and gallbladder. The human respiratory system, showing the trachea, bronchioles, and lungs. An illustration of a human stomach. 
Out of these 78 organs of a male or female body, skin is the largest organ with respect to its size and weight. The major organ in the body of human beings is the brain which is primarily responsible for performing all the functions and actions of the body. Other major organs of the body are given in the following list with names, diseases, location and functions. 1  Adrenal Glands. 2  Anus.
Spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the human body. Lymphatic or lymphoid organs are the major parts of the immune system of our body. Function of the immune system is to protect the host (i.e. human body) from the invasion of foreign organisms. The major organ in the body of human beings is the brain which is primarily responsible for performing all the functions and actions of the body. Other major organs of the body are given in the following list with names, diseases, location and functions. 1  Adrenal Glands. 2  Anus.
Introduction. The human body is made up of several organ systems that all work together as a unit to make sure the body keeps functioning. There are ten major organ systems in the body, each of which plays a different role in helping the body work. 