STD symptoms: Common STDs and their symptoms. Learn about common and possible STD symptoms and how serious they might be. If you have sex — oral, anal or vaginal intercourse and genital touching — you can get an STD, also called a sexually transmitted infection (STI). Straight or gay, married or single, you're vulnerable to STIs and STI symptoms. These early signs and symptoms usually disappear within a week to a month and are often mistaken for those of another viral infection. During this period, you're highly infectious. More-persistent or-severe symptoms of HIV infection may not appear for 10 years or more after the initi
Syphilis. The first signs of syphilis can appear 10 days to three months after you become infected. Symptoms are often mild, so you can pass on the infection without knowing you've got it. Genital herpes. Many people have no symptoms when they're first infected with genital herpes. If you do have symptoms when first infected, they usually appear four to seven days after infection.
Gonorrhoea. Symptoms of gonorrhoea usually appear within two weeks of infection. However, sometimes they don't appear until many months later or until the infection has spread to other parts of the body. About 50% of women and 10% of men with gonorrhoea have no obvious symptoms. Genital herpes. Many people have no symptoms when they're first infected with genital herpes. If you do have symptoms when first infected, they usually appear four to seven days after infection.
Gonorrhea is a bacterial infection of your genital tract. It can also grow in your mouth, throat, eyes and anus. The first gonorrhea symptoms generally appear within 10 days after exposure. However, some people may be infected for months before signs or symptoms occur. These early signs and symptoms usually disappear within a week to a month and are often mistaken for those of another viral infection. During this period, you're highly infectious. More-persistent or-severe symptoms of HIV infection may not appear for 10 years or more after the initi
Genital Herpes. Typically, another outbreak can appear weeks or months after the first, but it almost always is less severe and shorter than the first outbreak. Back to top. Genital herpes is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by the herpes simplex viruses type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2).
Chlamydia-Symptoms. Most women and men with chlamydia do not have symptoms. The time between exposure to chlamydia and the start of symptoms-the incubation period-may range from days to months. If symptoms appear, it is usually 1 to 3 weeks after sexual contact with an infected person. 
When trichomoniasis causes symptoms, they may appear within five to 28 days of exposure and range from mild irritation to severe inflammation. Signs and symptoms may include: 1  Clear, white, greenish or yellowish vaginal discharge. 2  Discharge from the penis. These early signs and symptoms usually disappear within a week to a month and are often mistaken for those of another viral infection. During this period, you're highly infectious. More-persistent or-severe symptoms of HIV infection may not appear for 10 years or more after the initi
Some men with gonorrhea don't have signs or symptoms either. As with women, gonorrhea can be a silent STD for men. Men are more likely than women to have pain when they pee or see some discharge from their penis. But gonorrhea can go unnoticed. Unless you get tested, you can never be sure
Although some people do not experience any gonorrhea symptoms, they may appear 10 days after being exposed to the gonorrhea bacterium. Typically gonorrhea symptoms can be mild or confused with a long-lasting flu. In some cases, symptoms may be severe and lead to serious complications such as PID for women and epididymitis for men.