Membranes. Body membranes are thin sheets of tissue that cover the body, line body cavities, and cover organs within the cavities in hollow organs. They can be categorized into epithelial and connective tissue membrane. Epithelial membranes consist of epithelial tissue and the connective tissue to which it is attached. The two main types of epithelial membranes are the mucous membranes and serous membranes.
The other three types are connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Epithelial tissues line the cavities and surfaces of blood vessels and organs throughout the body. There are three principal shapes of epithelial cells: squamous, columnar, and cuboidal. These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells.
Epithelial Tissues. Let's start by talking about tissues. In a human being there are dozens of very specific tissues, but they can be classified into four main tissue types: connective tissue, epithelial tissue, muscle tissue, and nervous tissue. In this lesson, we'll take a look at the characteristics and functions of epithelial tissue
Grouped in to four basic types: connective, muscle, nervous, and epithelial. Multiple tissue types compose organs and body structures. While all animals can generally be considered to contain the four tissue types, the manifestation of these tissues can differ depending on the type of organism. 
Equipment: Microscopes and histological slides. Tissues are groups of cells with a common structure (form) and function (job). There are four main tissues in the body – epithelium, muscle, connective tissue and nervous tissue. 
Nerve Tissue. Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. 
These groups of specialized cells that share a common structure and function are called tissues. In animals, there are four main tissue types: connective tissue, epithelial tissue, muscle tissue, and nervous tissue. Let's start by talking about tissues. In a human being there are dozens of very specific tissues, but they can be classified into
The nervous system is divided into the central nervous system (CNS) and the peripheral nervous system (PNS). The central nervous system is limited to the brain and spinal cord, all other nervous tissue belongs to the peripheral nervous system. An individual nerve cell can have components in both the CNS and the PNS.
Although there are many types of cells in the human body, they are organized into four broad categories of tissues: epithelial, connective, muscle, and nervous. Each of these categories is characterized by specific functions that contribute to the overall health and maintenance of the body. Epithelial Membranes. The epithelial membrane is composed of epithelium attached to a layer of connective tissue, for example, your skin. The mucous membrane is also a composite of connective and epithelial tissues.
1 There are two types of glial cells in the nervous system: the large-bodied macroglia and the smaller microglia. 2  There are two classes of macroglia in the central nervous system: astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. 1 There are two broad classes of cells in the nervous system: neurons, which process information, and glia, which provide the neurons with mechanical and metabolic support.