Meerschaum pipes may develop rich coloring from both age and use. The first recorded use of meerschaum for making pipes was around 1723 and quickly became prized as the perfect material for providing a cool, dry, flavorful smoke. The porous nature of meerschaum draws moisture and tobacco tar into the stone. The qualities of the meerschaum were combined with those of the briar wood pipes by lining a briar pipe with a meerschaum bowl. Some believe the meerschaum lined briar pipe gives the porosity and sweet smoking qualities of meerschaum along with the heat-absorbing qualities and durability of briar.
Civilization Started with Stones …Meerschaum also sepiolite, is a soft white mineral. Meerschaum is a hydrous magnesium silicate having the chemical formula Mg4Si6O15(OH)2·6H2O and it’s density is between 0.988 to 1.279 gr/cm3 Eskişehir has been steeped in the mystique of meerschaum for five millennia. Meerschaum is a rare mineral which is found in Eskisehir, Turkey, although there are some small deposits in other countries such as Greece, France, USA and Somali. It is accepted among experts that the purest quality meerschaum comes from Turkey.
Also meerschaum is referred to as “White Gold”. Meerschaum behaves in a natural way reminiscent of a living organism. Scientifically, it is an alkaline mineral, a magnesium hydrosilicate compound whose loosely bound crystals have a microscopic spongy texture. Meerschaum is a rare mineral which is found in Eskisehir, Turkey, although there are some small deposits in other countries such as Greece, France, USA and Somali. It is accepted among experts that the purest quality meerschaum comes from Turkey.
Meerschaum is the most flavorful and beautiful pipe you can own. Meerschaum-one of the most porous substances found in nature-acts as a filter, absorbs tobacco tars and nicotine, and yields a most satisfying smoke. Meerschaum smokes cool and dry with a flavor unrivaled by any other pipe. The split block-meerschaum is soaked in water for 15-30 minutes until the material achieves a cheese-like consistency. Working with the softened material, the carver determines the rough shape of the pipe before the bowl and draft hole are bored. Like all fine hand-crafted articles, no two meerschaums are alike.
MEERSCHAUM: A German word meaning literally, sea-foam, alluding to the belief that it was the compressed whitecaps of waves. Meerschaum is a mineral-hydrous silicate of magnesium-one of the most porous substances found in nature. Composed of the fossilized shells of tiny sea creatures that fell to the ocean floor millions of years ago, meerschaum is found in red clay deposits.
Meerschaum is a a german word describing a soft mineral, which literally means sea foam .alluding to the belief that it was the compressed whitecaps of waves, just as it is said in mythology for the goddess of beauty-Aphrodite. Meerschaum is a mineral-hydrous silicate of magnesium-one of the most porous substances found in nature. Composed of the fossilized shells of tiny sea creatures that fell to the ocean floor millions of years ago, meerschaum is found in red clay deposits.
Meerschaum (/ˈmɪərʃɔːm/ MEER-shawm or /ˈmɪərʃəm/ MEER-shəm, German for foam of the sea) is sometimes found floating on the Black Sea and rather suggestive of sea-foam, hence the German origin of the name as well as the French name for the same substance, ecume écume de. mer The qualities of the meerschaum were combined with those of the briar wood pipes by lining a briar pipe with a meerschaum bowl. Some believe the meerschaum lined briar pipe gives the porosity and sweet smoking qualities of meerschaum along with the heat-absorbing qualities and durability of briar.
Definition of MEERSCHAUM. 1. : a fine light white clayey mineral that is a hydrous magnesium silicate found chiefly in Asia Minor and is used especially for tobacco pipes. 2. : a tobacco pipe of meerschaum. See meerschaum defined for kids.
meerschaum. n. 1. (Minerals) Also called: sepiolite a white, yellowish, or pink compact earthy mineral consisting of hydrated magnesium silicate: used to make tobacco pipes and as a building stone. 1. A fine, compact, usually white claylike mineral of hydrous magnesium silicate, H 4 Mg 2 Si 3 O 10, found in the Mediterranean area and used in fashioning tobacco pipes and as a building stone. Also called sepiolite.