Videoonystagmography (VNG). Videonystagmography (VNG) is used to evaluate patients with dizziness, vertigo, or balance dysfunction. The inner ear and eyes movements are connected through the vestibulo-ocular reflex. The vestibular system monitors the position and movements of the head in order to stabilize retinal images on the eye. VNG testing consists of three parts: oculomotor evaluation, positioning/positional testing, and caloric stimulation of the vestibular system. The test takes about ninety (90) minutes to complete. Some dizziness is normal with VNG testing, and typically is of short duration.
ENG/VNG tests are the most common set of tests administered to people with dizziness, vertigo, and/ or imbalance. Parts of the ENG/VNG test battery evaluate the movement of the eyes as they follow different visual targets. Other parts of the ENG/VNG observe eye movements as the head is placed in different positions. Like the ENG/VNG, rotation tests are performed in a room that is dark with the examiner asking random questions during testing. Rotation tests provide information beyond the ENG/ VNG about how well the balance organs are functioning. Not all people in the diagnosis phase will require rotation tests.
VNG testing is used to determine if a vestibular (inner ear) disease may be causing a balance or dizziness problem, and is one of the only tests available today that can decipher between a unilateral (one ear) and bilateral (both ears) vestibular loss. At NDBC we use Videonystagmography (VNG) technologies for testing inner ear and central motor functions.
VNG testing is a series of tests designed to document a persons ability to follow visual objects with their eyes and how well the eyes respond to information from the vestibular system. This test also addresses the functionality of each ear and if a vestibular deficit may be the cause of a dizziness or balance problem. At NDBC we use Videonystagmography (VNG) technologies for testing inner ear and central motor functions.
VNG testing is used to determine if a vestibular (inner ear) disease may be causing a balance or dizziness problem. A VNG test is one of the only tests available today that can decipher between a unilateral (one ear) and bilateral (both ears) vestibular loss. VNG testing is a series of tests designed to document a person’s ability to follow visual objects with their eyes and how well the eyes respond to information from the vestibular system. This test also addresses the functionality of each ear and if a vestibular deficit may be the cause of a dizziness or balance problem
Videonystagmography (VNG) is a technology for testing inner ear and central motor functions, a process known as vestibular assessment. It involves the use of infrared goggles to trace eye movements during visual stimulation and positional changes. 
VNG testing is used to determine if a vestibular (inner ear) disease may be causing a balance or dizziness problem, and is one of the only tests available today that can decipher between a unilateral (one ear) and bilateral (both ears) vestibular loss. VNG testing is a series of tests designed to document a persons ability to follow visual objects with their eyes and how well the eyes respond to information from the vestibular system.
VNG testing is considered the new standard for testing inner ear functions over Electronystagmography (ENG), because VNG measures the movements of the eyes directly through infrared cameras, instead of measuring the mastoid muscles around the eyes with electrodes like the previous ENG version. At NDBC we use Videonystagmography (VNG) technologies for testing inner ear and central motor functions.