Sexual Reproduction. Figure %: Sexual Reproduction in the Zygomycota. Like Ascomycota, some Zygomycota have two mating types, though individual species may only have one mating type. When hyphae from opposite mating types meet, they produce structures called progametangia that are dense and multinucleate. Like all fungi, Basidiomycota can undergo both asexual and sexual reproduction. Asexual reproduction in Zygomycota is similar to that in other types of fungi, while sexual reproduction bears some similarity to that in Ascomycota.
Zygomycota typically undergo prolific asexual reproduction through the formation of sporangia and sporangiospores. Sporangiospores are distinguished from other types of asexual spores, such as conidia of the Ascomycota and Basidiomycota, by their development. This introduction to the Zygomycota does not include the order comprising the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, the Glomales, because it has been elevated to the rank of phylum, the Glomeromycota (Sch ler et al.
Zygophores are chemotropic aerial hyphae that are the sex organs of Zygomycota, except for Phycomyces in which they are not aerial but found in the substratum. They have two different mating types (+) and (-). In its asexual phase it develops bulbous black sporangia at the tips of upright hyphae, each containing hundreds of haploid spores. As in most zygomycetes, asexual reproduction is the most common form of reproduction.
Zygomycota, or zygote fungi, is a phylum of fungi. The name comes from zygosporangia, where resistant spherical spores are formed during sexual reproduction. Approximately 1050 species are known. In its asexual phase it develops bulbous black sporangia at the tips of upright hyphae, each containing hundreds of haploid spores. As in most zygomycetes, asexual reproduction is the most common form of
Two variant types of sporangia include sporangiola and merosporangia. Sporangiola are simply uni-to-few spored sporangia containing between 1-to-30 spores (Figures 3A and 5). Merosporangia are elongated sporangiola with uniseriate spores usually produced from a vesicle or stalk (Figure 6). This introduction to the Zygomycota does not include the order comprising the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi, the Glomales, because it has been elevated to the rank of phylum, the Glomeromycota (Sch ler et al.
Home What fungi are Reproduction Asexual Reproduction. FUNGI REPRODUCING ASEXUALLY BY MEANS OF SPORANGIA. Sporangiospores are spores that are produced in a sporangium (plural: sporangia). A sporangium in fungi (but not mosses and some other organisms) is simply a cell containing spores. The Zygomycota are terrestrial organisms producing non-motile sporangiospores. The sporangia in this group are usually at the tips of specialized hyphae called sporangiophores. Probably the most difficult feature of the zygomycotan sporangium for most students to understand is the bulb-like structure called a columella.
The Zygomycota, or conjugation fungi, include molds, such as those that invade breads and other food products. The identifying characteristics of the Zygomycota are the formation of a zygospore during sexual reproduction and the lack of hyphal cell walls except in reproductive structures. Like all fungi, Basidiomycota can undergo both asexual and sexual reproduction. Asexual reproduction in Zygomycota is similar to that in other types of fungi, while sexual reproduction bears some similarity to that in Ascomycota.
Phylum Zygomycota The zygomycetes (phylum Zygomycota)lack septa in their hyphae except when theyform sporangia or gametangia. Zy-gomycetes are by far the smallest of thethree phyla of fungi, with only about 1050named species. 
Sporangia are formed at the end of aerial hyphae called sporangiophores. Rhizopus. Fungi are taxonomically classified according to the type of sexual spore that they form, but clinically, since most only exhibit asexual spores in the lab, are classified by asexual spore type. The vegetative hyphae obtain nutrients; the reproductive part of the fungus consists of reproductive or aerial hyphae. Yeasts are unicellular fungi. To reproduce, fission yeasts divide symmetrically, whereas budding yeasts divide asymmetrically. Buds that do not separate from the mother cell form pseudohyphae.
Asexual sporangia are commonly produced by the Chytridiomycota and Zygomycota. Although some similar structures, such as asci, are produced by members of the Dikarya they are never called sporangia and instead have their own special terms. The Zygomycota are terrestrial organisms producing non-motile sporangiospores. The sporangia in this group are usually at the tips of specialized hyphae called sporangiophores. Probably the most difficult feature of the zygomycotan sporangium for most students to understand is the bulb-like structure called a columella.