Dental hygienists in the United States must be graduates from a dental hygiene program, with either an associate degree (most common), a certificate, a bachelor's degree or a master's degree from a dental hygienist school that is accredited by the American Dental Association (ADA). Dental hygienists have a specific scope of clinical procedures they provide to their patients. They assess a patient's condition in order to offer patient-specific preventative and educational services to promote and maintain good oral health.
Job Description. A career as a dental hygienist offers a wide range of challenges. In the dental office, the dentist and the dental hygienist work together to meet the oral health needs of patients. Hygienists are in demand in general dental practices and in specialty practices such as periodontics or pediatric dentistry. They also may be employed to provide dental hygiene services for patients in hospitals, nursing homes and public health clinics.
Dental hygienists should consider completing an associate or bachelor’s degree program in dental hygiene or a closely related field from an accredited school. It’s important to make sure your school and its dental hygiene program is accredited by The Commission on Dental Accreditation. 
A dental hygienist is a licensed dental professional who is registered with a dental association or regulatory body within their country of practice. They are a primary healthcare professional who works independent of, or alongside dentists and other dental professionals in a team to provide full oral health care. Dental hygienists have a specific scope of clinical procedures they provide to their patients. They assess a patient's condition in order to offer patient-specific preventative and educational services to promote and maintain good oral health.
Dental hygienists are oral health professionals who work under the supervision of licensed dentists. Along with teaching patients proper oral hygiene, they may conduct patient assessments, oral inspections, and teeth cleanings. While associate's degrees are enough for most dental hygienist positions, some hygienists earn higher degrees as a way to advance their careers. Bachelor's and master's degrees in dental hygiene may qualify hygienists for careers beyond the dental office, such as in teaching and research.
Think of a dental hygienist as an insurance agent. “You see dentists when you have a problem,” says Kelli Swanson Jaecks, president of the American Dental Hygienists’ Association. “But you see dental hygienists for preventative health care.”. Many of the courses you take in a dental hygiene program will be applicable for a dental program, and the training and experience could help when sitting for the Dental Acceptance Test to gain admission to dental school. But working as a dental hygienist isn’t a shortcut to becoming a dentist.
dental hygienist a dental health specialist whose primary concern is nonsurgical periodontal therapy, maintenance of dental health, and prevention of oral disease. Patient education in proper brushing and interdental cleaning (such as with floss or a water jet) is also a major responsibility of the dental hygienist. 