Eastern tent caterpillars (Malacosoma americanum), or tent worms, are more of an eyesore or slight nuisance rather than an actual threat. However, getting rid of tent caterpillars is occasionally necessary. We can look at how to prevent tent worms and how to kill tent worms, if
Forest tent caterpillars are one of the most widespread and abundant of the tent-making caterpillars. Like their close cousins the eastern tent caterpillars, forest tent caterpillars feed primarily on trees; but unlike their cousins, and the common fall webworm, the forest tent caterpillar doesn’t make an actual tent.
Tent worms prefer wild cherry trees and other ornamental fruit trees. They will, however, nest in ash, willow and maple trees as well. Other than their webs making trees appear unsightly, tent caterpillars rarely cause major problems.
Tent worms are active in early spring while webworms become active near fall. Tent worms make their tent-like nests in the forks of branches while webworm nests are located at the ends of branches. Fall webworms also enclose foliage or leaves within these nests. Tent caterpillars do not.
Answer: First, be sure you have eastern tent caterpillars, and not another similar pest. Eastern tent caterpillars build their tents in the crotches of tree branches and appear in early spring. Fall webworms also build tents, but their tents will be at the ends of branches, enclosing foliage. Fall webworms also appear at an entirely different time of year-fall, as you can probably guess.
Tent caterpillars, also known as tent worms, can cause extensive damage to trees in your landscape. They create unsightly webs and can defoliate trees extensively if left uncontrolled. There are several species of tent caterpillars, or tent worms, but they can be controlled in the same way.
Tent worms are classified in the phylum Arthropoda class Insecta, order Lepidoptera, superfamily Bombycoidea, and family Lasiocampidae. Also called “tent caterpillar,” the tent worm earned its name for the large silk tents or webs that they spin during the spring in the cracks and cervices of trees.