Polyploid plants are generated in an effort to create new plants that have new characteristics. Sometimes the polyploidy plants are sickly and not viable, but sometimes the polyploid plants have larger leaves and flowers. Orchid growers will often sell polyploidy plants that are larger or have larger flowers. Often the polyploid nature of the plant is included in the cultivar name (G. species ‘big flower 4N’).
Polyploidy is the heritable condition of possessing more than two complete sets of chromosomes. Polyploids are common among plants, as well as among certain groups of fish and amphibians. For instance, some salamanders, frogs, and leeches are polyploids. Many of these polyploid organisms are fit and well-adapted to their environments. 
What are some characteristics of polyploidy plants? Select one: a. They tend to be bigger and stronger than diploid plants. b. They tend to be weaker and smaller than diploid plants. However not all polyploid have larger seed sets. Some polyploids like the giant forest bamboos have greater vegetative growth rather than greater reproductive yield of seeds. They are larger and have very strong woody stems.
What are the characteristics of plants? Plants usually: absorb water/ nutrients and Photosynthesis (Ie: absorb sunlight)    The characteristics of plants include that they are multi-cellular,  they have cell w … alls, produce their own food, obtain energy from  the sun and they contain chlorophyll. 5 people found this useful. Some characteristics of a plant was they make their own food using  the process of photosynthesis. All plants grow, develop, and  reproduce. They have roots that keep them r … ooted in the ground. To  release energy and get rid of body was they have respire. They have  a slowly reaction to changes.
Best Answer: Polyploid plants are bigger and can have higher yields than the respective monoploid wild species. These plants can be vulnerable to damage in storms due to the weight of their larger seed production. However not all polyploid have larger seed sets. Some polyploids like the giant forest bamboos have greater vegetative growth rather than greater reproductive yield of seeds. They are larger and have very strong woody stems.
Triploid and tetraploid chromosomes are examples of polyploidy. Polyploid cells and organisms are those containing more than two paired (homologous) sets of chromosomes. Most species whose cells have nuclei (Eukaryotes) are diploid, meaning they have two sets of chromosomes—one set inherited from each parent. However, polyploidy is found in some organisms and is especially common in plants. Species whose cells do not have nuclei, that is, Prokaryotes, may be polyploid organisms, as seen in the large bacterium Epulopicium fishelsoni [1] . Hence ploidy is defined with respect to a cell. Most eukaryotes have diploid somatic cells, but produce haploid gametes (eggs and sperm) by meiosis.
Polyploids are organisms with multiple sets of chromosomes in excess of the diploid number (Acquaah, 2007; Chen, 2010; Comai, 2005; Ramsey and Schemske, 1998). Polyploidy is common in nature and provides a major mechanism for adaptation and speciation. 
Many grass species are polyploid; some species can have more than 10 sets of chromosomes. Polyploidy occurs in some animals, such as goldfish, salmon, and salamanders, but is especially common among ferns and flowering plants, including both wild and cultivated species. Many grass species are polyploid. • Polyploids tend to be larger than their diploid counterparts. They have larger cells with increased volume. • Polyploids tend to display semi-sterility or sterility. • Polyploid plants tend to display heightened susceptibility to frost damage and higher resistance to pests and pathogens.
Polyploidy. Cells (and their owners) are polyploid if they contain more than two haploid (n) sets of chromosomes; that is, their chromosome number is some multiple of n greater than the 2n content of diploid cells. For example, triploid (3n) and tetraploid cell (4n) cells are polyploid. From 30% to 70% of today's angiosperms are thought to be polyploid. Species of coffee plant with 22, 44, 66, and 88 chromosomes are known. This suggests that the ancestral condition was a plant with a haploid (n) number of 11 and a diploid (2n) number of 22, from which evolved the different polyploid descendants.