Asterixis (also called the flapping tremor, or liver flap) is a tremor of the hand when the wrist is extended, sometimes said to resemble a bird flapping its wings. 1 Asterixis is seen most often in drowsy or stuporous patients with metabolic encephalopathies, especially in decompensated cirrhosis or acute liver failure. 2  It is also seen in some patients with kidney failure and azotemia, and in carbon dioxide toxicity.
This information shows the various causes of Asterixis, and how common these diseases or conditions are in the general population. This is not a direct indication as to how commonly these diseases are the actual cause of Asterixis, but gives a relative idea as to how frequent these diseases are seen overall. 
Definition. First described by Adams and Foley in 1949, 1 asterixis is a clinical sign indicating a lapse of posture and is usually manifest by a bilateral flapping tremor at the wrist, metacarpophalangeal, and hip joints. 2, 3 It may also be seen in tongue, foot, and any skeletal muscle. Electrolyte abnormalities known to cause asterixis include hypoglycaemia, hypokalaemia and hypomagnesaemia. Drug intoxications include barbiturate intoxication, alcoholism, phenytoin intoxication (phenytoin flap) and primidone intoxication.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Asterixis is an involuntary tremor of the wrist when it is flexed away from the palm, called dorsiflexion. Normally, the muscles are able to stay contracted, but people who have the condition cannot sustain the muscle contraction. The kidneys have trouble filtering out nitrogen-based compounds. Asterixis can indicated liver failure in a patient. Asterixis may occur as a result of damage to the brain. Liver flap can be seen in people who have untreated liver failure, especially cirrhosis.
Adams and Foley first described asterixis in 1949 in patients with advanced hepatic encephalopathy. [1] It is a disorder of motor control characterised by brief, arrhythmic interruptions of sustained voluntary muscle contraction usually observed due to brief lapse of posture. Recently mini-asterixis which is a part of the spectrum of the gross flapping tremor seen in hepatic encephalopathy was proposed as being due to the involvement of motor cortex causing a pathologically slowed and synchronised motor cortical wave. [11].
Asterixis is a recurrent momentary lapse of sustained posture that presents as a rhythmical movement classified under the rubric of negative myoclonus. It is a common manifestation of a variety of structural, metabolic, and toxic conditions affecting the nervous system. Medications and toxins can also produce asterixis. The most common are sedatives such as benzodiazepines and barbiturates, and anticonvulsants such as phenytoin, carbamazapine, valproic acid, and gabapentin. Phenytoin is the most prominently reported antiepileptic culprit.
Asterixis is associated with various encephalopathies due especially to faulty metabolism. The term derives from the Greek a, not and stērixis, fixed position. Asterixis is the inability to maintain posture due to a metabolic encephalopathy. This can be elicited on physical exam by having the patient extend their arms and bend their hands back. 1 Asterixis is seen most often in drowsy or stuporous patients with metabolic encephalopathies, especially in decompensated cirrhosis or acute liver failure. 2  It is also seen in some patients with kidney failure and azotemia, and in carbon dioxide toxicity.
Medical Definition of ASTERIXIS. : a motor disorder characterized by jerking movements (as of the outstretched hands) and associated with various encephalopathies due especially to faulty metabolism. 
asterixis. a motor disturbance marked by intermittent lapses of an assumed posture as a result of intermittency of sustained contraction of groups of muscles; called liver flap because of its occurrence in coma associated with liver disease, but also observed in other conditions. To elicit asterixis (flapping tremor) the patient extends the arm, dorsiflexes the wrist, and extends the fingers.
Asterixis can be a sign of too many nitrogen compounds in the blood, which can be caused by problems with the kidneys. People with liver flap may also experience sleepiness. The kidneys have trouble filtering out nitrogen-based compounds. Asterixis can indicated liver failure in a patient. Asterixis may occur as a result of damage to the brain. Liver flap can be seen in people who have untreated liver failure, especially cirrhosis. Asterixis may make some everyday activities, such as lifting a drink, difficult. Azotemia may occur as a result of abnormal urine output