They live in forest. Their leader is Papa Smurf and enemy Gargamel. Every Smurf has name and typical role. Smurfs … are little blue people who live in a hidden village in the forest. Each one has a role.   For example, jokey smurf tells jokes handy smurf is handy Hansom smurf is of course hansom. So on and so on.there are 101 smurfs that live in smurf village. In smurf land the word smurf can be a adjective and a verb. For example, I'm going to smurf you... could mean all sorts of stuff. But be sure that whatever I do to you is going to be smurfy
The Smurfs are tiny, blue creatures who live in mushroom houses in a village hidden in the forest. Smurfs are blue, three-apples tall, and speak a dialect which makes heavy use of the word smurf. Papa Smurf: Papa Smurf is the leader of the Smurfs, and the only Smurf who wears red. Papa Smurf brings the Smurfs to safety in times of danger and crisis.
The Smurfs was first created and introduced as a series of comic characters by the Belgian comics artist Peyo (pen name of Pierre Culliford) in 1958, where they were known as Les Schtroumpfs. When they first appeared in 1958, the Smurfs lived in a part of the world called  Le Pays Maudit  (French for the Cursed Land). To reach it required magic or travelling through dense forests, deep marshes, a scorching desert and a high mountain range.
It is rare for a Smurf to live to around 1000 years of age, as Grandpa Smurf has done. In the cartoon show, this is due to the effects of the Long Life Stone, which has kept the Smurfs from accelerated aging and their possible destruction. 
The Smurfs is a 2011 American 3D live-action / computer-animated comedy film loosely based on The Smurfs comic book series created by the Belgian comics artist Peyo and the 1980s animated TV series it spawned. After having the release date changed three times, Columbia Pictures released The Smurfs on July 29, 2011. Box office analysts initially predicted the film would tie with Cowboys & Aliens, but The Smurfs ultimately came in second grossing $35.6 million against Cowboys & Aliens ‍ '​ $36.4 million.
They live in forest. Their leader is Papa Smurf and enemy Gargamel. Every Smurf has name and typical role. Smurfs … are little blue people who live in a hidden village in the forest. Each one has a role.   For example, jokey smurf tells jokes handy smurf is handy Hansom smurf is of course hansom. So on and so on.there are 101 smurfs that live in smurf village. In smurf land the word smurf can be a adjective and a verb. For example, I'm going to smurf you... could mean all sorts of stuff. But be sure that whatever I do to you is going to be smurfy
The Smurfs (French: Les Schtroumpfs) (Dutch: De Smurfen) is a Belgian comic and television franchise centered on a fictional colony of small blue creatures who live in mushroom-shaped houses in the forest. When they first appeared in 1958, the Smurfs lived in a part of the world called  Le Pays Maudit  (French for the Cursed Land). To reach it required magic or travelling through dense forests, deep marshes, a scorching desert and a high mountain range.
As mentioned in our description of who and what are the Smurfs, the Smurfs live inside Smurf Village, hidden in the forest. Smurf Village: This mushroom village is where the Smurfs live and play. Gargamel and sundry other bad buys are always trying to find their way here with little success. Papa Smurf: Papa Smurf is the leader of the Smurfs, and the only Smurf who wears red. Papa Smurf brings the Smurfs to safety in times of danger and crisis.
Reviews: 19 user | 17 critic. The Smurfs are little blue creatures that live in mushroom houses in a forest inhabited mainly by their own kind. The smurfs average daily routine is attempting to avoid Gargomel, an evil man who wants to kill our little blue friends. The Smurfs, named for their personalities, inhabit a village of mushroom houses in an enchanted forest. These loveable creatures are led by Papa Smurf and live carefree...