Our ceramic tile installation cost for 2015 calculator allows you to change variables & refigure. Includes all labor, materials and supplies needed for performing the work based on entered square footage. Results are approximations based on installs for ceramic floor tile in the United States. 
Add in 10% and the total for flooring materials comes to $1925. For labor, $3 times 250 square feet equals $750. No need to add 10% here. Add in the removal and haul away for the carpeting and the total labor cost is $900. The total flooring installation price will be the sum of $1,750 for the materials plus $900 for the labor therefore the estimated cost is $2,650 (plus applicable taxes). The hardwood I’m installing is $7.00 per square foot and I’m redoing my kitchen which is 250 square feet. A contractor has quoted me a flat $150 feet for ripping up and hauling away my used carpet, and will install the new hardwood flooring for $3 per square foot. Let’s figure materials first.
No need to add 10% here. Add in the removal and haul away for the carpeting and the total labor cost is $900. The total flooring installation price will be the sum of $412.50 for the materials plus $900 for the labor therefore the estimated cost is $1,312.50 (plus applicable taxes). If you don’t wish to do this all yourself, feel free to scroll up and try out our flooring installation calculator for yourself. This floor cost calculator presupposes that you already know the square footage of the area you are installing the flooring of. If not, you can learn how to calculate the square footage. There are several factors which are used to determine what it will cost to replace your flooring.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Laminate Flooring Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Laminate Flooring ranges between $5.67 - $7.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Flooring Calculator. Up to 5 separate rooms or areas can be calculated. If you know the cost per square foot of your flooring, the total cost can also be estimated. Please keep in mind that the calculation below will give you exact square footage and may not match how the flooring comes per bundle.
The numbers below indicate the amount of flooring for the finished project. After entering the dimensions of the room, click calculate, and the calculator will provide you with the number of square yards of flooring you'll need. Note: Flooring is sold in varying widths. The square yardage number will need to be converted to the specific dimensions of the product to be used. The square yardage number you receive as an answer indicates the amount of flooring for the finished project. 
This calculator is designed to be very detailed, and takes into account most aspects of flooring installation, unlike our general purpose remodeling cost calculator, which has a basic flooring estimating function, based on square footage. 1) Flooring Material: This is the first option you need to select. 
Installation costs can vary just as much, so we would recommend contacting 2-3 contractors and asking how much they charge per square foot for removal and installation of flooring. Depending on your square footage you might get a discount (usually for projects over 500 sq ft). This floor cost calculator presupposes that you already know the square footage of the area you are installing the flooring of. If not, you can learn how to calculate the square footage. There are several factors which are used to determine what it will cost to replace your flooring.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Hardwood Floor Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Hardwood Floor ranges between $8.56 - $11.51 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2