For the hyperkeratosis that shows up on the elbows and knees, it is better to stop leaning on them or use a pad to on the elbows and knees. Proper shoes can be worn on the feet to prevent thickening of the soles of the feet. Hyperkeratosis can also be treated based on the location on the parts of the body. The purpose of the treatment is to reduce the thickness of the skin and also eliminate it. Relevant creams or ointments that contain salicylic acid, glycolic acid can be applied on the affected area. Hyperkeratosis is more pronounced and noticed on the skin of women who have brown skins. Creams containing glycolic acid should be applied on the thickened skins of the palms, sole, elbows and the knees to soften the skin.
Hyperkeratosis means “thickening skin,” and can occur with a number of different foot conditions. Hyperkeratosis on its own is not necessarily painful or even worrisome, as long as it is not being caused by an underlying condition. For example, there may be thickened skin on your heels or the soles of your feet. 
Hyperkeratosis is a painless brown patch and thick skin noticed on people’s arms, legs, knees, elbows and faces. It is caused by extreme collection of keratin in the epidermis surface of the skin. When the skin becomes thickened, it guards it against resistance and irritation. Hyperkeratosis can be noticed on the elbows and knees joints. Hyperkeratosis is more pronounced and noticed on the skin of women who have brown skins. Creams containing glycolic acid should be applied on the thickened skins of the palms, sole, elbows and the knees to soften the skin.
hyperkeratosis. 1. hypertrophy of the horny layer of the skin, or any disease characterized by it. 2. hypertrophy of the cornea. adj., adj hyperkeratot´ic. epidermolytic hyperkeratosis a hereditary autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis, present at birth. Characteristics include generalized redness of the skin and severe hyperkeratosis with small, hard wartlike scales over the entire body, accentuated in areas that flex or bend and sometimes involving the palms and soles. hyperkeratosis. 1. hypertrophy of the horny layer (stratum corneum) of the skin, or any disease characterized by it; the hyperkeratoses may have distinctive formats, e.g. annular (ring formations), basket-weave, compact, laminated
Hyperkeratosis is a thickening of the outer layer of skin, producing a tough, often dry area that may be discolored. Hyperkeratosis can trigger localized hyperpigmentation in the stratum corneum of the epidermis, along with an increased production of protective keratin. Keratin is a protein that is part of the structural matrix of the skin (along with collagen and elastin), providing strength and water resistance to the outer layer. Hyperkeratosis is exacerbated with continued irritation and dehydration of the areas.
Hyperkeratosis can also be caused by B-Raf inhibitor drugs such as Vemurafenib and Dabrafenib. 1 Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis (also known as Bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma, Bullous ichthyosiform erythroderma, or bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma Brocq) is a rare skin disease in the ichthyosis family affecting around 1 in 250,000 people. 2  It involves the clumping of keratin filaments.
Follicular hyperkeratosis dass (also called phrynoderma) is a skin condition characterized by excessive development of keratin in hair follicles, resulting in rough, cone-shaped, elevated papules. The openings are often closed with a white plug of encrusted sebum. 1 Epidermolytic hyperkeratosis (also known as Bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma, Bullous ichthyosiform erythroderma, or bullous congenital ichthyosiform erythroderma Brocq) is a rare skin disease in the ichthyosis family affecting around 1 in 250,000 people. 2  It involves the clumping of keratin filaments.
Hyperkeratosis Causes. Hyperkeratosis is a form of keratosis. Keratosis is a disorder of the skin caused by the overproduction of keratin. Hyperkeratosis is linked with qualitative abnormality of the keratin and causes thickening of the stratum corneum or the horny layer of the skin. It is caused by too much buildup of keratin in the outer layers of skin. The thickening of this skin defends it from rubbing, irritation as well as pressure. Most of the types of this condition are painless. While hyperkeratosis can happen anyplace on the body there are several regions that are typically more prone
1. hypertrophy of the horny layer of the skin, or any disease characterized by it. 2. hypertrophy of the cornea. adj., adj hyperkeratot´ic. epidermolytic hyperkeratosis a hereditary autosomal dominant form of ichthyosis, present at birth. Characteristics include generalized redness of the skin and severe hyperkeratosis with small, hard wartlike scales over the entire body, accentuated in areas that flex or bend and sometimes involving the palms and soles. In infancy and childhood, there are recurrent bullae, most often on the lower limbs. 