More About Arabic Name: Marjan. Marjaan or Marjan means on Afghan Persian Dari Coral or Coral treasure. In Persian origin Marjan name mean is Coral. Coral (like the kind that grows in the ocean). It is also of Persian origin, where it means coral and Slovene origin, where it means male. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Marjan in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details
More About Farsi Name: Marjan. Marjaan or Marjan means on Afghan Persian Dari Coral or Coral treasure. In Persian origin Marjan name mean is Coral. Coral (like the kind that grows in the ocean). It is also of Persian origin, where it means coral and Slovene origin, where it means male.
Find Marjan meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Marjan name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Marjan. 
Marjan hill. Marjan (pronounced MARyan) is a hill on the peninsula of the city of Split, largest city of Croatia 's Dalmatia region. It is covered in a dense Mediterranean pine forest and completely surrounded by the city and the sea, making it a unique sight. 
Marjan, which in Persian means coral, was born in 1976 and was given as a gift to Kabul in 1978 by the Cologne Zoo. He arrived in the Afghan capital and, soon afterwards, a lioness by the name of Chucha joined him. 
ma-rjan, mar-j- an ] The baby girl name Marjan is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced M AA RJH AA N †. Marjan's language of origin is Hebrew. It is predominantly used in Dutch and Polish. Marjan is a form of the English Marian in the Dutch language. Marjan is also a form of Marianna in the Dutch language. Marjan is also a form of the English, French, and German Marianne in the Dutch language. Marjan is also a form of the English Mary in the Polish language. Marjan is not commonly used as a baby girl name. 
Muslim Meaning: The name Marjan is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Marjan is: Small pearls. Corals. SoulUrge Number: 2. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire for love and companionship, and want to work with others to achieve peace and harmony. 
Marjan /mar-jan/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced mar-YAN, mar-jan. It is of Polish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Marjan is  star of the sea . Variant of Mary. Marjan is an uncommon given name for women. Marjan is also a rare last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census).
List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Marjan in Arabic origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame detail