Nizoral is a shampoo used to treat and prevent seborrhoeic dermatitis (or, in its milder form, dandruff). It’s active ingredient, Ketoconazole, is approved for use as an anti-fungal agent in the treatment of infections that occur due to fungi and yeasts. So far, so nothing to do with hair loss. Not so fast.
Nizoral for hair loss is very effective because it contains ketoconazole. The popular Nizoral A-D shampoo contains 1% ketoconazole which is sufficient for scalp treatment and the reduction of follicular inflammation that contributes to hair loss.
Ketoconazole hair loss shampoo such as Nizoral and Revita may be helpful adjunct treatments given the “weak” DHT blocking properties of ketoconazole. Laser hair treatment has been FDA “cleared” however, in my opinion, not enough evidence publicly exists for me to recommend it. This is a preview of. .
Ketoconazole is a clinically proven, powerful anti-fungal used to treat various fungal infections, such as dandruff, and can help curb hair loss. Ketoconazole helps remove toxins and debris from the scalp and hair, perfectly preparing it for a hair loss shampoo to help regrow hair.
Ketoconazole is an antifungal drug used to manage scalp conditions like dandruff. But ketoconazole is also used as a hair loss treatment for androgenetic alopecia (genetic pattern baldness) in both men and women.
Many agree that Nizoral can slow or stop hair loss, rather than regrow hair, normally as part of a broader treatment regimen. Excessive usage of either the 1% or 2% formulation has not been shown to produce better results.
Ketoconazole (the active ingredient in Nizoral) is first, and foremost, an anti-fungal agent. In this regard, it may have some hair loss impact by reducing scalp inflammation and, therefore, increasing the flow of blood and nutrients to the scalp (though this is my personal opinion).
Though there is no shampoo to date that has been FDA approved as a hair loss treatment, there is some scientific evidence to suggest that ketoconazole, an ingredient found in shampoos such as Nizoral and Revita may help combat hair loss due to its “weak” anti-DHT binding properties in the scalp to hair follicles.
Though there is no shampoo to date that has been FDA approved as a hair loss treatment, there is some scientific evidence to suggest that ketoconazole, an ingredient found in shampoos such as Nizoral and Revita may help combat hair loss due to its “weak” anti-DHT binding properties in the scalp to hair follicles.