Adolescent Psychology: field of psychology concerned with the normal and abnormal behavior of adolescents. It includes mental processes as well as observable responses. (MeSH) Includes developmental psychology research focusing on the adolescent years. Biological Psychology: the study of the interrelationships of the biology and psychology in cognitive functioning, including intellectual, memory, and related neurocognitive processes. (NCIt) Focuses on the relationship between behavior and the body’s physical systems.
Psychopathology is a similar term to abnormal psychology but has more of an implication of an underlying pathology (disease process), and as such is a term more commonly used in the medical specialty known as psychiatry. Behavioral: The behavioral approach to abnormal psychology focuses on observable behaviors. In behavioral therapy, the focus is on reinforcing positive behaviors and not reinforcing maladaptive behaviors. This approach targets only the behavior itself, not the underlying causes.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Abnormal psychology is the branch of psychology that studies unusual patterns of behavior, emotion and thought, which may or may not be understood as precipitating a mental disorder. Behavioral: The behavioral approach to abnormal psychology focuses on observable behaviors. In behavioral therapy, the focus is on reinforcing positive behaviors and not reinforcing maladaptive behaviors. This approach targets only the behavior itself, not the underlying causes.
Report Abuse. The answers is B. Psychopathology. When you think of a pathology, you can associate problem with it. If you swap out Abnormal with Problem, you know you're dealing with a pathology. Since it is Behaviorally/Psychologically related, the pathology is Psychopathology. Source(s): B.A. in Psychology. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).
Abnormal psychology is devoted to the study of mental, emotional, and behavioural aberrations. It is the branch of psychology concerned with research into the classification, causation, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of psychological disorders or psychopathology. Abnormal psychology is not synonymous with clinical psychology, which is mainly concerned with professional practice and focuses primarily on diagnostic tests and the application of different treatment approaches.
Although many behaviours could be considered as abnormal, this branch of psychology generally deals with behavior in a clinical context. Behavioral: The behavioral approach to abnormal psychology focuses on observable behaviors. In behavioral therapy, the focus is on reinforcing positive behaviors and not reinforcing maladaptive behaviors. This approach targets only the behavior itself, not the underlying causes.
• PSYCHOPATHOLOGY (noun). The noun PSYCHOPATHOLOGY has 2 senses: 1. the branch of psychology concerned with abnormal behavior. 2. the branch of medicine dealing with the diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders. Familiarity information: PSYCHOPATHOLOGY used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. Meaning: The branch of medicine dealing with the diagnosis and treatment of mental disorders. Classified under: Nouns denoting cognitive processes and contents. Synonyms: psychiatry; psychological medicine; psychopathology.
The essence of abnormal psychology is its emphasis on research into abnormal behaviour and its endeavour to classify the wide range of mental and emotional aberrations into coherent categories and to understand them. Abnormal psychology serves as a backdrop or guide to clinical practice .. Abnormal psychology is not synonymous with clinical psychology, which is mainly concerned with professional practice and focuses primarily on diagnostic tests and the application of different treatment approaches.
Definition of ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY. : a branch of psychology concerned with mental and emotional disorders (as neuroses, psychoses, and mental retardation) and with certain incompletely understood normal phenomena (as dreams and hypnosis). ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : a branch of psychology concerned with mental and emotional disorders (as neuroses, .... : a branch of psychology concerned with mental and emotional disorders (as neuroses, psychoses, and mental retardation) and with certain incompletely understood normal phenomena (as dreams and hypnosis). Britannica.com: Encyclopedia article about abnormal psychology.
The answers is B. Psychopathology. When you think of a pathology, you can associate problem with it. If you swap out Abnormal with Problem, you know you're dealing with a pathology. Since it is Behaviorally/Psychologically related, the pathology is Psychopathology. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).