1 To speed up the cooking time when grilling ribs, simmer the ribs in boiling water for 20 min. 2  before adding them to the grill. 3  Then, brush ribs with your favorite KRAFT or BULL’S-EYE Barbecue Sauce and grill 10 to 15 min. or until sauce is caramelized, turning and brushing occasionally with additional sauce. how to grill ribs. 1  When grilling ribs, think “low and slow!” Grill ribs slowly on medium heat to avoid burning and to help keep them tender. 2  When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used.
6. Return the ribs to the oven and cook for 30 more minutes. If your baby back ribs were starting to dry out when you added the sauce, reduce the cooking time to about 20 minutes. Ad. 
1 Place the racks in the oven and bake the ribs for between 2 and 2½hours, or until they're tender. 2  Remove the ribs from the oven and uncover them. 3  Let them to cool for 15 minutes. 4  Apply the barbecue sauce liberally to the ribs and return them back to the oven, leaving them uncovered. 1 Remove the ribs from the oven and uncover them. 2  Let them to cool for 15 minutes. 3  Apply the barbecue sauce liberally to the ribs and return them back to the oven, leaving them uncovered. 4  Let them bake for another 30 minutes [sources: Baby Back Grill, Mahalo ].
1 Spray each piece of foil with vegetable cooking spray. 2  Brush the ribs liberally with barbeque sauce and place each portion in its own piece of foil. 3  Wrap tightly and refrigerate for at least 8 hours, or overnight. 4  Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C). 1 Brush the ribs liberally with barbeque sauce and place each portion in its own piece of foil. 2  Wrap tightly and refrigerate for at least 8 hours, or overnight. 3  Preheat oven to 300 degrees F (150 degrees C). 4  Bake ribs wrapped tightly in the foil at 300 degrees F (150 degrees C) for 2 1/2 hours
Yum Baby Back Ribs Fall off the Bone Recipe Servings: 4-6 Prep Time: 5 Cook Time: 4 hours You can use the larger St. Louis or country style ribs. If you'd like to use a dry rub, just it in place of salt and pepper. 
Bake the ribs: Set the oven to 300°F. Move the ribs to an oven rack in the middle of the oven. Roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours for spare ribs or 1 1/2 to 2 hours for baby back ribs. Halfway through cooking, cover the ribs with aluminum foil to protect them from drying out. Lay the ribs on top of the rack in a single layer. This arrangement allows for heat circulations on all sides of the ribs. Season the ribs: Mix the mustard and the liquid smoke, if using, and brush the ribs on both sides. Sprinkle the ribs with the dry rub and pat gently to make sure the rub adheres to the rib meat. Note: This step can be done the day ahead for a deeper flavor. Wrap the seasoned ribs in plastic wrap and refrigerate. Broil the ribs: Heat the broiler and place an oven rack a few inches below the heating element. Make sure the meaty side of the ribs is facing up. Broil the ribs for about 5 minutes, until the sugar in the dry rub is bubbling and the ribs are evenly browned
how to cook ribs in the oven. 1  When cooking ribs in the oven, place ribs on rack of a broiler pan. 2  Brush with KRAFT or BULL’S-EYE Barbecue Sauce, then bake at 350°F for 1 hour 15 min. or until ribs are done, turning and brushing occasionally with additional barbecue sauce. how to grill ribs. 1  When grilling ribs, think “low and slow!” Grill ribs slowly on medium heat to avoid burning and to help keep them tender. 2  When grilling ribs, plan on a cooking time of 1 hour to 1 hour 30 min., depending on the size and type of ribs used.
5. Place ribs on the cool side of the grill and cover. Cook for 2 hours turning every 30 minutes until the meat easily pulls away from the bones and has a rosy glow exterior. When turning the ribs work quickly to close cover and retain as much heat as possible in the grill. 6. 2. About 30 minutes before cooking beef ribs remove from the refrigerator, unwrap to bring it to room temperature. Soak 1-2 three inch wood chunks covered in cold water for 1 hour and drain or soak 2 cups wood chips 15 minutes and drain, place chips in an aluminum or tinfoil container.