2. In a reaction, order is the sum of the exponents of all the concentration terms in that reaction's rate expression. For example, for the natural decomposition of nitrogen pentoxide, the rate expression is v = -d[N 2 O 5 ]/d t = k 1 [N 2 O 5 ]. Thus, this is a first-order reaction
PHYSICIAN'S ORDERS. The most common way of delegating authority is to write an order in a hospital chart or otherwise formally record orders for PEs. Formal orders are valuable for clarifying the delegation of authority in that setting though they are less commonly used in private offices. Standing orders, which include protocols, are a special case of written physician's orders. A standing order is an order conditioned upon the occurrence of certain clinical events. The important characteristic of a standing order is that all the patients who meet the criteria for the order receive the same treatment
Computerized Physician Order Entry (CPOE) defined Computerized Physician Order Entry or CPOE is the process of capturing a physician's instructions for a patient's care electronically to improve the efficiency of care delivery. Since computerized physician order entry was introduced as a vital part of their technology armamentarium, physicians have argued that, in order for CPOE to be effective, support and guidance are essential.
POLST orders are also known by other names: medical orders for life-sustaining treatment (MOLST), medical orders on scope of treatment (MOST), physician's orders on scope of treatment (POST) or transportable physician orders for patient preferences (TPOPP). Unlike advance directives, a POLST summarizes the patients' wishes in the form of physician orders for end-of-life care. POLST provides explicit guidance to health professionals under predictable future circumstances. POLST can build on an advance directive but can also function in the absence of an advance directive.
order. 1. a taxonomic category subordinate to a class and superior to a family (or suborder). 2. the prescription of a physician regarding treatment of a patient. standing order a physician's order that can be exercised by other health care workers when predetermined conditions have been met. In a reaction, order is the sum of the exponents of all the concentration terms in that reaction's rate expression. For example, for the natural decomposition of nitrogen pentoxide, the rate expression is v = -d[N 2 O 5 ]/d t = k 1 [N 2 O 5 ]. Thus, this is a first-order reaction
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. POLST (Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment) is an approach to improving end-of-life care in the United States, encouraging doctors to speak with patients and create specific medical orders to be honored by health care workers during a medical crisis. Unlike advance directives, a POLST summarizes the patients' wishes in the form of physician orders for end-of-life care. POLST provides explicit guidance to health professionals under predictable future circumstances. POLST can build on an advance directive but can also function in the absence of an advance directive.
Computerized physician order entry (CPOE) is the process of a medical professional entering medication orders or other physician instructions electronically instead of on paper charts. A primary benefit of CPOE is that it can help reduce errors related to poor handwriting or transcription of medication orders. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. CPOE systems are designed to mimic the workflow of the paper chart.
Computerized provider order entry (CPOE) refers to any system in which clinicians directly enter medication orders (and, increasingly, tests and procedures) into a computer system, which then transmits the order directly to the pharmacy. Clinical decision support for atypical orders: detection and warning of atypical medication orders submitted to a computerized provider order entry system.