7. Another cause of computer eye strain is focusing fatigue. To reduce your risk of tiring your eyes by constantly focusing on your screen, look away from your computer at least every 20 minutes and gaze at a distant object (at least 20 feet away) for at least 20 seconds. Some eye doctors call this the 20-20-20 rule.. 9. If you need to look back and forth between a printed page and your computer screen, this can cause eye strain. Place written pages on a copy stand adjacent to the monitor. Light the copy stand properly. You may want to use a desk lamp, but make sure it doesn't shine into your eyes or onto your computer screen.
During your exam, be sure to tell your eye doctor how often you use a computer at work and at home. Measure how far your eyes are from your screen when you sit at your computer, and bring this measurement to your exam so your eye doctor can test your eyes at that specific working distance. 9. If you need to look back and forth between a printed page and your computer screen, this can cause eye strain. Place written pages on a copy stand adjacent to the monitor. Light the copy stand properly. You may want to use a desk lamp, but make sure it doesn't shine into your eyes or onto your computer screen.
Your eyes are your windows to the world, so it's important to take good care of them. Things like seeing an eye doctor regularly, getting enough sleep, and giving your eyes regular breaks while you are using a computer can help keep your eyes in good health. Learning more about your eyes and how to prevent eye diseases will help you to feel more in control of your health. 1  If you don't have any vision problems, you should visit an eye care practitioner every 5-10 years during your 20s and 30s.
1 Rest your eyes for 15 minutes after two hours of continuous computer use. 2  Also, for every 20 minutes of computer viewing, look into the distance for 20 seconds to allow your eyes a chance to refocus. 3  Blinking-To minimize your chances of developing dry eye when using a computer, make an effort to blink frequently. 1 Location of computer screen-Most people find it more comfortable to view a computer when the eyes are looking downward. 2  Optimally, the computer screen should be 15 to 20 degrees below eye level (about 4 or 5 inches) as measured from the center of the screen and 20 to 28 inches from the eyes.
1 Some people may need glasses to help with contrast, glare, and eye strain when using a computer. 2  Position your computer so that your eyes are level with the top of the monitor. 3  This allows you to look slightly down at the screen. 4  Try to avoid glare on your computer from windows and lights. 1 Position your computer so that your eyes are level with the top of the monitor. 2  This allows you to look slightly down at the screen. 3  Try to avoid glare on your computer from windows and lights. 4  Use an anti-glare screen if needed. 5  Choose a comfortable, supportive chair
Exercise your eyes. Another cause of computer eye strain is focusing fatigue. To reduce your risk of tiring your eyes by constantly focusing on your screen, look away from your computer at least every 20 minutes and gaze at a distant object (at least 20 feet away) for at least 20 seconds. Some eye doctors call this the 20-20-20 rule.. 9. If you need to look back and forth between a printed page and your computer screen, this can cause eye strain. Place written pages on a copy stand adjacent to the monitor. Light the copy stand properly. You may want to use a desk lamp, but make sure it doesn't shine into your eyes or onto your computer screen.
1 Don't take a shower or wash your hair until the day after laser eye surgery. 2  Avoid getting soap in your eye when bathing and washing your hair for at least one week after laser eye surgery. 3  You should also avoid getting products such as hair spray and shaving lotion in your eyes while healing from laser eye surgery. 1 Wear the eye shield/goggles that you received in your postoperative kit when you are sleeping for the first seven nights after laser eye surgery. 2  Don't allow tap water to get in your eyes for at least a
Never go to bed with your eye makeup still on. If you go to bed with mascara or eyeliner on, it can get into your eyes and cause irritation. 1  Sleeping in your eye makeup can also cause the pores around your eyes to become clogged, which can lead to styes or (hordeolum) . Learning more about your eyes and how to prevent eye diseases will help you to feel more in control of your health. 1  If you don't have any vision problems, you should visit an eye care practitioner every 5-10 years during your 20s and 30s.
1 Don't allow tap water to get in your eyes for at least a week after laser eye surgery. 2  Avoid swimming pools, whirlpools, saunas, and lakes for at least 3 weeks after laser eye surgery. 3  No eye makeup for at least one week after laser eye surgery. 1 Wear the eye shield/goggles that you received in your postoperative kit when you are sleeping for the first seven nights after laser eye surgery. 2 