There are many different species of paramecium. They are difficult to tell apart. Paramecium, like all protists, are single-celled organisms. Cells are the building blocks for all life forms. Single-celled means that a paramecium has only one cell for its entire body. Most plants and animals have more cells than you can count. The inside of a paramecium is a jelly-like fluid called protoplasm. Bits of food and other materials float around in the protoplasm. Paramecium are so tiny that you need a microscope to see them. Protists with cilia, such as Paramecium, move much faster than other protists. Like other protists, Paramecium usually attach themselves to the bottom of the pond or stream, or to a plant. Sometimes they swarm.. That means they all let go and swim around until they find a new place to attach.
Protista (Amoeba). The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddle and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas. 
A paramecium is unicellular and moves by using cilia. Cilia are short, hair-like structures that are found on the surface of the organism. Cilia have three uses: 1.movement, 2.capturing food, 3. sensing the environment. When you observe the paramecium it may look like it only has cilia on part of its cell. The large nucleus controls the day-to-day functions of the cell. The large nucleus is visible and is a slightly different color from the rest of the organelles. The small nucleus only controls reproduction. Paramecium can reproduce in two ways: asexually through binary fission and sexually through conjugation.
Paramecium caudatum is a species of unicellular organisms belonging to the genus Paramecium of the phylum Ciliophora. They can reach 0.25mm in length and are covered with minute hair-like organelles called cilia. The cilia are used in locomotion and feeding. Paramecium caudatum is 120–330 micrometres long (usually 200–300 micrometres). The cell body is roughly cigar-shaped, rounded at the front, tapering at the posterior to a blunt point.
Click here to see them. Paramecium are the most commonly observed protozoans and, depending on the species, they are from 100-350 um long. They are easily maintained and cultured and Paramecium caudatum (shown at the left) are characterized by a large macronucleus and a single compact micronucleus. 
Paramecia feed on microorganisms like bacteria, algae, and yeasts. To gather food, the Paramecium uses its cilia to sweep prey organisms, along with some water, through the oral groove, and into the mouth opening. Paramecium diagram. The parts are as follows: 1) food vacuoles 2) micronucleus 3) oral groove 4) gullet 5) anal pore 6) contractile vacuole 7) macronucleus 8) cilia. Species of Paramecium range in size from 50 to 330 micrometres (0.0020 to 0.0130 in) in length. Cells are typically ovoid, elongate, foot-or cigar-shaped.
Paramecia were among the first ciliates to be seen by microscopists, in the late 17th century. They were probably known to the Dutch pioneer of protozoology, Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, and were clearly described by his contemporary Christiaan Huygens in a letter of 1678. Paramecium diagram. The parts are as follows: 1) food vacuoles 2) micronucleus 3) oral groove 4) gullet 5) anal pore 6) contractile vacuole 7) macronucleus 8) cilia. Species of Paramecium range in size from 50 to 330 micrometres (0.0020 to 0.0130 in) in length. Cells are typically ovoid, elongate, foot-or cigar-shaped.