If you can personally report your injury, do so. If you are unable to report your injury because of your medical condition, have a family member, friend or health care provider notify your employer of the injury as soon as possible.
The law requires an employee to report a single event injury within 30 days or for medical treatment to be obtained within the 30-day period. In cases of occupational disease or injuries caused by repeated trauma, an employee must give notice to the employer within 90 days of the employee’s separation from employment.
But for injuries that happen over time, you need to report your injury to the employer within 30 days of the date you suffer a temporary disability (that is, when you lose time from work or seek medical treatment) and you realize (or should have realized) that the injury was due to work.
In addition to reporting the injury to your employer, you will also need to file a claim with the Colorado Division of Workers' Compensation (DOWC) within, in most instances, 2 years of your injury.
1 You must report your injury to your employer within 30 days from the date of the injury, or from the date you knew your injury or illness was related to your job. 2  If you do not notify your employer within these 30 days, your right to obtain benefits could be lost.
1. 1  You must report your injury to your employer within 30 days from the date of the injury, or from the date you knew your injury or illness was related to your job. 2  If you do not notify your employer within these 30 days, your right to obtain benefits could be lost.
My employer will not report my injury to the insurance company. You have the right to report the injury to their insurance company. However, if you need assistance, contact the Employee Assistance Office (EAO) at (800) 342-1741 or e-mail wceao@myfloridacfo.com. 1  Reference: Section 440.185, Florida Statutes.
You should always report your injury to your employer as soon as possible. Generally, you are required to report your injury within 30 days, but you may have up to 180 days to report your injury in some circumstances.