Bile salts combine with phospholipids to break down fat globules in the process of emulsification by associating its hydrophobic side with lipids and the hydrophilic side with water. Emulsified droplets then are organized into many micelles which increases absorption. Best Answer: Bile is stored in the gallbladder between meals and upon eating is discharged into the duodenum where it aids the process of digestion.
Secretion of Bile and the Role of Bile Acids In Digestion. Bile is a complex fluid containing water, electrolytes and a battery of organic molecules including bile acids, cholesterol, phospholipids and bilirubin that flows through the biliary tract into the small intestine. They are both also important for secretion and flow of bile: 1  Cholecystokinin: The name of this hormone describes its effect on the biliary system-cholecysto = gallbladder and kinin = movement. 2  Secretin: This hormone is secreted in response to acid in the duodenum.
Secretion of Bile and the Role of Bile Acids In Digestion. Bile is a complex fluid containing water, electrolytes and a battery of organic molecules including bile acids, cholesterol, phospholipids and bilirubin that flows through the biliary tract into the small intestine. 1 Bile contains bile acids, which are critical for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. 2  Many waste products are eliminated from the body by secretion into bile and elimination in feces.
Bile Functions. Bile does not contain enzymes like other secretions from the gastrointestinal tract. Instead it has bile salts (acids) which can 1  : Emulsify fats and break it down into small particles. 2  This is a detergent-like action of bile. 3  Helps the body absorb the breakdown products of fat in the gut. 4  Bile salts bind with lipids to form micelles. Bile is a digestive juice that is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It has two important functions 1  : Assists with fat digestion and absorption in the gut. 2  Is a means for the body to excrete waste products from the blood.
The bile salts help to break down the fat molecules into   smaller parts, and they are then easily digestible by the small and   large intestine.   After the bile salts are done doing their job, they are returned back   to the liver and recycled, and are used again when they are needed. Bile salts do this by forming a spherical structure around globs of fat in the gut; this spherical structure (in combination with a few other proteins that get added to it) is called a micelle.
1 Bile contains bile acids, which are critical for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. 2  Many waste products, including bilirubin, are eliminated from the body by secretion into bile and elimination in feces. They are both also important for secretion and flow of bile: 1  Cholecystokinin: The name of this hormone describes its effect on the biliary system-cholecysto = gallbladder and kinin = movement. 2  Secretin: This hormone is secreted in response to acid in the duodenum.
The bile salts help to break down the fat molecules into   smaller parts, and they are then easily digestible by the small and   large intestine.   After the bile salts are done doing their job, they are returned back   to the liver and recycled, and are used again when they are needed. bile salts emulsify fats and solubilize them ,thus the are absorbed. Bile salt is completely necessary for digestion in the body. They   help to break down the fat in ou … r body that otherwise could not be   digested.
Bile salts (BS) are bio-surfactants present in the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) that play a crucial role in the digestion and absorption of nutrients. 
Confidence votes 3.6K. Bile is an important player in the digestive system largely because it helps to digest fats. In the gut, fats exist as relatively large globs that cannot be absorbed. To prepare fats for absorption, they must first be broken down into their component parts. Bile salts do this by forming a spherical structure around globs of fat in the gut; this spherical structure (in combination with a few other proteins that get added to it) is called a micelle.
There are two fundamentally important functions of bile in all species: 1  Bile contains bile acids, which are critical for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. They are both also important for secretion and flow of bile: 1  Cholecystokinin: The name of this hormone describes its effect on the biliary system-cholecysto = gallbladder and kinin = movement. 2  Secretin: This hormone is secreted in response to acid in the duodenum.