They write reports and make recommendations for improvement. They can also close production facilities to protect public health. As of May 2011, the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed that food inspectors earned a mean $20.25 per hour or $42,120 per year. The bottom 10 percent earned less than $11.77 per hour or $24,490 per year, while the top 10 percent made $29.44 per hour or $61,230 per year. Employer. The BLS shows that in 2011, more than one-third of the 13,780 food inspectors worked for the federal government, where they averaged $22.22 per hour or $46,21
Public Health Inspector Salary United States: According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, workers in the Occupational Health and Safety Specialists occupational group (which includes public health inspectors) earn an average salary of $64,660 per year. In order to work as a public health inspector in Canada, you must be certified with the Canadian Institute of Public Health Inspectors (CIPHI). The certification process includes field placement and written and oral exams.
Making up 74 percent of those who took the survey, male Environmental Health & Safety Inspectors greatly outnumber their female counterparts. The majority of workers are highly satisfied with their job. Figures cited in this summary are based on replies to PayScale's salary questionnaire. The average pay reported by folks with 10 to 20 years of experience is around $72K. Environmental Health & Safety Inspectors who have racked up more than two decades of experience report lower incomes overall; the average sum for this crowd comes out to only $67K. ADVERTISEMENT.
The median salary was $61,700 in 2010 and employment is expected to grow 19% from 2010 to 2020, according to the Occupational Outlook Handbook. Your salary potential depends on education, professional credentials, where you work and who you work for. Here are some sample pay ranges of specific job titles: Enroll in the Rutgers EPH summer career-prep program! EPH gives you the in-depth training and hands-on field experience you need to launch your career. EPH also qualifies you to take the NJ REHS license a nationally respected professional credential.
Job Description for Health Inspector. Conducts investigations of work environments to determine if safety and health requirements are being met. May require a bachelor's degree and 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Health Inspector in the United States.
Public Health Inspector Salary Canada: According to Service Canada, employees in the Inspectors-Public and Environmental Health and Occupational Health occupational grouped earn an average salary of $55,376 per year. In order to work as a public health inspector in Canada, you must be certified with the Canadian Institute of Public Health Inspectors (CIPHI). The certification process includes field placement and written and oral exams.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Health Inspector may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Health Inspector in the United States.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Health Inspector in the United States is $48,190 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Health Inspector in the United States are expected to make less than $48,190. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Health Inspector in the United States.
2. A job title (often interchangeable with health inspector, sanitarian or sanitary inspector) of a person who conducts environmental health investigations, inspections or audits for a government agency (eg. a public health department) or for a private company (eg. a food manufacturing plant). Enroll in the Rutgers EPH summer career-prep program! EPH gives you the in-depth training and hands-on field experience you need to launch your career. EPH also qualifies you to take the NJ REHS license a nationally respected professional credential.
Salary Information for a Public Health Inspector. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), as of May 2013, the annual earnings for most occupational health and safety specialists, including public health inspectors, were between $40,530 and $98,520 annually. Many health inspectors work for government agencies at the federal, state or local level. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a public health inspector. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties and certification to find out if this is the career for you.