The average SAT score composite at UVA is a 1997. This score makes UVA Moderately Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1870, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 2180. In other words, a 1870 places you below average, while a 2180 will move you up to above average. Even though UVA likely says they have no minimum ACT requirement, if you apply with a 29 or below, you'll have a very hard time getting in, unless you have something else very impressive in your application. There are so many applicants scoring 30 and above that a 29 will look academically weak.
As Non-Degree-Seeking. A student who enrolls at Virginia Tech under the non-degree program must meet minimum requirements set by the university. All students must be in good standing at their current school and have at least a recalculated 2.0 GPA to be considered for non-degree student status. Transcripts are required. *This means that 25% of freshmen offered admission to Virginia Tech scored below 1160 on the SAT (combined critical reading and math) and 25% of freshmen offered admission scored above 1340 on the SAT (combined critical reading and math). Please note: These are not minimum requirements for admission to Virginia Tech.
The acceptance rate at UVA is 30% . For every 100 applicants, 30 are admitted. This means the school is very selective. If you meet UVA's requirements for GPA, SAT/ACT scores, and other components of the application, you have a great shot at getting in. Even though UVA likely says they have no minimum ACT requirement, if you apply with a 29 or below, you'll have a very hard time getting in, unless you have something else very impressive in your application. There are so many applicants scoring 30 and above that a 29 will look academically weak.
As you can see, the majority of students who got in had A averages, an SAT score (CR+M+W) above 1800, and an ACT composite score of 26 or higher. Chances of admission improve as those numbers go up. To learn more about the University of Virginia in Charlottesville, high school GPAs, SAT scores and ACT scores, these articles can help: 1  University of Virginia Admissions Profile.
We don't have a minimum SAT score. As strange as these answers sound, they're both true. Students are more than the sum of two numbers, no matter how important those two numbers may be. Of course, we do use GPAs and SATs. All other things being equal, applicants with good numbers stand a better chance of being admitted; and because our applicant pool is broad and deep, most admitted students have excelled in school and scored well on the SAT (see our Profile for more information).
(Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 4.22, UVA requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. Even though UVA likely says they have no minimum ACT requirement, if you apply with a 29 or below, you'll have a very hard time getting in, unless you have something else very impressive in your application. There are so many applicants scoring 30 and above that a 29 will look academically weak.
The average GPA at UVA is 4.22. This makes UVA Extremely Competitive for GPAs. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 4.22, UVA requires you to be at the top of your class. You'll need nearly straight A's in all your classes to compete with other applicants. You should also have taken plenty of AP or IB classes to show your ability to excel in academic challenge
The academic record for a University of Virginia student is the official transcript, a complete historical listing of all coursework, associated grades and other academic record-related information. The academic record is frozen once a student separates him/herself from the University. The University does not maintain major grade point averages (GPAs). To calculate the major GPA, multiply the number of credits for each included class by the grade point equivalent listed below and then divide the total grade points by the total credits (counting only the credits of courses taken for a letter grade).
Grade Point Average. There is no minimum GPA required for admission. Nevertheless, the nominal minimum GPA for successful applicant is about 3.2 (out of 4.0). The grades in computer science, mathematics and related courses are more important than the overall GPA. 