Malt extract production [edit]. Malt extract is frequently used in the brewing of beer. Its production begins by germinating barley grain in a process known as malting, immersing barley in water to encourage the grain to sprout, then drying the barley to halt the progress when the sprouting begins. Barley is spread out on the floor of a malthouse during a traditional malting process. Malting is the process of converting barley or other cereal grains into malt, for use in brewing, distilling, or in foods and takes place in a maltings, sometimes called a malthouse, or a malting floor. The cereal is spread out on the malting floor in a layer of 8 to 12 cm (3 to 5 inch) depth
Barley malt is a natural sweetener that is derived from barley. It can be used in the home as a substitute for processed sugar, and many commercial foods make use of it as a way of providing sweetening in frozen or packaged foods. Barley malt is a natural sweetener that causes lower spikes in blood glucose than sugar, making it better to use for individuals who monitor their glucose levels. Barley malt extract can be taken to add bulk to the stool, which in turn improves general colon health.
Malt is the term used for maltose sugar extracted from sprouted barley, but it can also refer to maltose from any number of other grains, including wheat or brown rice. It has a unique, rich flavor and is used to make beer, whiskey, Ovaltine, and malted milk shakes. 
Malted grain is used to make beer; whisky; malted shakes; malt vinegar; confections such as Maltesers and Whoppers; flavored drinks such as Horlicks, Ovaltine and Milo; and some baked goods, such as malt loaf, bagels and rich tea biscuits. Malted grain that has been ground into a coarse meal is known as sweet meal. Barley is spread out on the floor of a malthouse during a traditional malting process. Malting is the process of converting barley or other cereal grains into malt, for use in brewing, distilling, or in foods and takes place in a maltings, sometimes called a malthouse, or a malting floor. The cereal is spread out on the malting floor in a layer of 8 to 12 cm (3 to 5 inch) depth
The malt in barley malt extract or Maltsupex comes from sprouted barley. It is then concentrated into a soluble fiber. As such it has similar properties to other soluble fibers such as psyllium (Metamucil), oats and the pectin in fruits. This means it acts to create stool bulk. 
Malt extract is known for its use in brewing beer. Barley malt is a natural sweetener that causes lower spikes in blood glucose than sugar, making it better to use for individuals who monitor their glucose levels. Barley malt extract can be taken to add bulk to the stool, which in turn improves general colon health.
Barley (Hordeum vulgare L.), a member of the grass family, is a major cereal grain. It was one of the first cultivated grains and is now grown widely. Barley grain is a staple in Tibetan cuisine and was eaten widely by peasants in Medieval Europe. Barley has also been used as animal fodder, as a source of fermentable material for beer and certain distilled beverages, and as a component of various health foods.
Barley is a plant. The grain of barley is used to make medicine. Barley is used for lowering blood sugar, blood pressure, and cholesterol, and for promoting weight loss. It is also used for digestive complaints including diarrhea, stomach pain, and inflammatory bowel conditions. Barley is applied to the skin for treating boils. In foods, barley is used as a source of vitamins, carbohydrates, proteins, and fatty oils. In manufacturing, barley is used as a food grain, natural sweetener, and as an ingredient for brewing beer and making alcoholic beverages.
The next step to prepare the malted barley for brewing is termed mashing.. It is a process of grinding the malted barley into granular sized pieces. This ground malt is mixed with water in order to dissolve the starch, sugar and enzymes within the malted barley. It is harvested mostly in the United States and in Europe. Specific types of barley are used in the production of different types of beers, each strain imparts a unique characteristic taste and body that is suited for different beers.