Many diagnoses of brown recluse spider bites come from areas apparently outside of the brown recluse's habitat. Brown recluse spiders are found mostly in the central and southern U.S., an area that includes Texas, Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee, parts of Illinois, Indiana, and Georgia. Brown recluse spiders also inhabit the states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. Like 12 other species of recluse spiders, the brown recluse spider has six eyes arranged in pairs. (Most spiders found in the United States have eight eyes.) The spiders average about half an inch (1.3 centimeters) in length and their brown, silky bodies lack any discernible pattern. Fine hairs cover their legs.
They are about 7–12 mm long. Familiar species in the United States include the brown recluse spider (Loxosceles reclusa). It is found in a large area of the Midwest, west to Colorado and the New Mexico state line and east to northern Georgia. 
About 3,000 species of spiders are found in the United States. Spiders rarely bite people, and most species found in the world are harmless. However, some people may be allergic to a spider’s bite, and a few species of spiders are known to produce bites that may have serious medical implications for humans. Two of the more medically important types are the black widow spiders, and the brown recluse spider and its relatives, which are rarely found in Maine.
Brown recluse, violin, or fiddle-back (Loxosceles) spiders are about 1.25 cm (0.5 in.) long with a dark violin-shaped mark on the combined head and midsection (cephalothorax). They are found most often in the south-central part of the United States and live in hot, dry, abandoned areas, such as wood or rock piles. If you think you have been bitten by a brown recluse spider: 1  Remain calm. 2  Too much excitement or movement will increase the flow of venom into the blood. 3  Apply a cool, wet cloth to the bite, or cover the bite with a cloth and apply an ice bag. 4  Do not apply a tourniquet.
The brown recluse, Loxosceles reclusa, Sicariidae (formerly placed in a family Loxoscelidae) is a spider with a venomous bite. Brown recluse spiders are usually between 6 and 20 millimetres (0.24 and 0.79 in), but may grow larger. While typically light to medium brown, they range in color from whitish to dark brown or blackish gray. The cephalothorax and abdomen are not necessarily the same color. Other recluse species, such as the desert recluse (found in the deserts of southwestern United States), are reported to have caused necrotic bite wounds, though only rarely. The hobo spider and the yellow sac spider have also been reported to cause necrotic bites.
Distribution. The Brown Recluse Spider is native to the United States of America, Mexico and Canada. In the USA, their range extends from the southern Midwest down the the Gulf of Mexico. 
1) Brown Recluse Spider (Loxosceles reclusa): There are no brown recluse spiders in BC or in Canada. Their range is limited to the south-central and mid-western US. Click here for a general account about the brown recluse spider, where it occurs, and how to identify it. The species found in British Columbia is the western black widow spider. This species of cobweb spider, or comb-footed spider, is found from southern Saskatchewan, Alberta and British Columbia south into Mexico. In British Columbia, it is widespread in southern BC.
Hobo Spiders live in the Northern United States as well as Canada. They can be found anywhere in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado,and Southern British Columbia. We feel that it is likely that there are Hobos in Northern California. To the left is a picture of a Hobo Spider bite. Brown Recluse bites are the same. About 50% of bites are 'dry,' meaning that no venom is injected, and nothing happens to the victim. Often times the victim does not even realize that he has been bit.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They do not live in Canada. Brown recluses are native to the United States from the southern Midwest south to the Gulf of Mexico. This spider is not aggressive and usually bites only when pressed against the skin, such as when tangled up within clothes, bath towels, or in bedding. RE: Do brown recluse spiders live in Canada? I got an email about the brown recluse spider and it had some very disurbing images of what the bites look like. Has any one else got this email, and do you know if they actually do live in ontario, cause now im scared to have a shower and i hate spiders now.