Protein needs for women increase during pregnancy and lactation. The Institute of Medicine recommends pregnant and nursing women consume at least 1.1 gram of protein per kilogram, or about 0.5 grams of protein per pound of body weight each day. Pre-pregnancy weight is used to calculate protein needs for pregnant women. RDAs for infants, children and teens are calculated using 0.85 to 1.5 grams per kilogram of body weight, or about 0.39 to 0.68 gram of protein per pound of body weight each day, depending on the child’s age.
The easiest way to calculate your servings is to measure out your meals. You should weigh meat or measure out foods like beans and legumes with measuring cups. 1  Weigh meat in ounces, and multiply by the amount of protein in each ounce. 2  For instance, 3 ounces of meat has 21 grams of protein because each ounce has 7 grams. The answer is how much protein you need in grams. 1  For a sedentary to moderate lifestyle, multiply by 0.4. 2  For an active lifestyle, multiply by 0.4 to 0.6. 3  For an athlete who's building muscle or for a young athlete, you need 0.6 to 0.9 grams per pound.
Eat meat. Meat is one of the best sources of protein, as it is a complete protein, meaning it offers all the amino acids your body needs from one source. One ounce of meat has 7 grams of protein. 1  It's best to pick lean cuts of meat, such as chicken or fish, as too much fat in your diet is unhealthy. The answer is how much protein you need in grams. 1  For a sedentary to moderate lifestyle, multiply by 0.4. 2  For an active lifestyle, multiply by 0.4 to 0.6. 3  For an athlete who's building muscle or for a young athlete, you need 0.6 to 0.9 grams per pound.
This free bodybuilding macronutrient calculator will show you exactly how many daily calories you require along with the exact grams of protein, carbs and fats you should consume to meet your individual muscle building or fat burning needs. 
1 So if you weigh 140 pounds, you need 56 grams of protein a day. 2  For an active lifestyle, multiply by 0.4 to 0.6. 3  So if you weigh 140 pounds, you need 56 grams to 84 grams of protein a day. 4  For an athlete who's building muscle or for a young athlete, you need 0.6 to 0.9 grams per pound. The answer is how much protein you need in grams. 1  For a sedentary to moderate lifestyle, multiply by 0.4. 2  For an active lifestyle, multiply by 0.4 to 0.6. 3  For an athlete who's building muscle or for a young athlete, you need 0.6 to 0.9 grams per pound.
Using a tool to calculate your body mass index (BMI) can help determine if you’re underweight. Your family doctor can also help determine if you’re underweight based on your height, weight, what you eat and your activity level. 
Or perhaps your friends or parents have mentioned it. You can check by using our healthy weight calculator. If you're underweight, your GP, practice nurse or school health visitor can give you help and advice. There could be an underlying medical cause that needs to be checked out. Or perhaps you haven't been eating a healthy, balanced diet. What to do if you're underweight. If you're underweight, aim to gradually gain pounds until you get to a weight that's healthy for your height and age. But it's important that you gain weight the right way.
1 Body Fat Calculator. 2  Though not as accurate as using calibers, this is a quick and easy estimate of your percent body fat. 3  Nutritional Calculator. 4  This calculator will determine your calories, protein, fat, and carbohydrate needs in relationship to weight loss, maintenance or weight gain. 1 Nutritional Calculator. 2  This calculator will determine your calories, protein, fat, and carbohydrate needs in relationship to weight loss, maintenance or weight gain. 3  Food Planning Calculator. 4  This calculator was developed to use food groups to meet your nutritional needs.