capable of being converted by metabolism. metabolizable energy (ME). said of a feed or ration, the net energy available to an animal after the utilization of some energy in the processes of digestion and absorption and the loss of some of the material as being undigested or indigestible. 
2015. Effects of chemical, physical, or enzymatic treatments on concentration of digestible and metabolizable energy and on apparent total tract digestibility of energy, organic matter, and detergent fiber in distillers dried grains with solubles fed to growing pigs. J. Anim. Sci. Effects of chemical, physical, or enzymatic treatments on concentration of digestible and metabolizable energy and on ATTD of energy, organic matter, and detergent fiber in distillers dried grains with solubles fed to growing pigs. Rojas, O. J. and H. H. Stein. 2015.
Metabolizable Energy is what is left after accounting for energy in feces, urine and gasses. It is still not all available for the animal to use. GROSS ENERGY Feces DIGESTIBLE ENERGY Urine & Gas METABOLIZABLE ENERGY Heat increment NET ENERGY Maintenance Gain Reproduction Milk Production digestibility digestibility * *. Net Energy Is what is left after accounting for losses to feces, urine & gasses and heat increment. Heat increment is energy lost in fermentation and in metabolic processes. Net Energy is
), metabolizable energy (. ) and net energy (. ). In pigs, after the different levels of energy utilization, less than 60% of the ingested. can be used by the animal (Figure 1). In poultry, it is not possible to measure. due to the impossibility to separate faeces and urine. 
|. Email Article. Understanding metabolizable energy (ME) is essential in determining the nutritional quality of your pet's food and comparing pet foods. ME is defined as the amount of energy available from pet food once the energy lost in the feces, urine, and combustible gases has been subtracted. The energy bar has a much higher ME, because it contains concentrated calories for energy. Similar to an energy bar, pet foods with higher ME numbers provide your pet's body with more concentrated calories for more energy. With a higher ME, your pet's body will receive more energy from a smaller amount of food.
1 Corn gluten meal contained the greatest concentration of digestible and metabolizable energy of the ingredients tested. 2  None of the other food industry co-products contained more digestible or metabolizable energy in kcal/kg than corn or DDGS. Table 1. Concentrations of digestible and metabolizable energy, and apparent total tract digestibility (ATTD) of energy in corn, hominy feed, bakery meal, dried distillers grains with solubles (DDGS), corn gluten meal, corn gluten feed, and corn germ meal, as-fed basis. Diet. Item. Corn. Hominy feed. Bakery meal.
Metabolizable Energy in Poultry Nutrition I. R. Sibbald Modern commercial poultry produc-tion, like other industrial enterprises, de-mands control of cost inputs. The major cost is feed, the input of which is deter-mined by biological, managerial, and ec-onomic constraints. 
Understanding metabolizable energy (ME) is essential in determining the nutritional quality of your pet's food and comparing pet foods. The energy bar has a much higher ME, because it contains concentrated calories for energy. Similar to an energy bar, pet foods with higher ME numbers provide your pet's body with more concentrated calories for more energy. With a higher ME, your pet's body will receive more energy from a smaller amount of food.
0. Metabolizable energy (ME) is defined as the amount of energy available from pet food once the energy lost in the feces, urine, and combustible gases has been subtracted. Essentially, ME is the energy left for your pet's body to use once all digestion is complete. 