The recommended dosage for curcumin as an anti-inflammatory is 400 to 600 milligrams three times per day. To achieve a similar amount of curcumin in the form of turmeric would require a dosage of 8,000 to 60,000 milligrams three times a day. 
While the use of turmeric in traditional Asian cooking, such as curries, is common in the kitchen, a hot beverage is another way to enjoy the spice and treat potential inflammation. To make a pot of turmeric tea, simply boil 4 cups of water and add one teaspoon of ground turmeric. How to Use Turmeric to Reduce Inflammation. Turmeric is responsible for the bright yellow color in mustard. Photo Credit pixeldepth/iStock/Getty Images. Turmeric is a bright yellow spice often used in Asian cooking.
Turmeric is widely used in cooking and gives Indian curry its flavor and yellow color. It is also used in mustard and to color butter and cheese. Turmeric has been used in both Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine as an anti-inflammatory, to treat digestive and liver problems, skin diseases, and wounds. A relative of ginger, turmeric is a perennial plant that grows 5 to 6 feet high in the tropical regions of Southern Asia, with trumpet-shaped, dull yellow flowers. Its roots are bulbs that also produce rhizomes, which then produce stems and roots for new plants.
Inflammation in the skin can also be treated with paste of turmeric powder without fear of any adverse reaction. Dosage. For treating joints inflammation, a dose of about 400-600 mg of turmeric capsules or tablets 3 times per day seem to bring satisfactory results when it is taken for 2 months or more. Natural remedy such as this herb can give long lasting relief. Healing Properties. Turmeric anti-inflammatory property has been a topic of intense research, especially for getting relief from arthritis and other inflammation conditions in the body. Many of these conditions are treated with steroids which are known to elicit adverse side-effects.
Curcumin Dosage. Take 400 to 600 milligrams of turmeric extracts three to four times daily per day. (standardized for 95% curcuminoids) Supplements ranging from 450 mg to 2,500 mg have been given in clinical trials. Curcumin was found to be pharmacologically safe in human clinical trials with doses up to 10 g/day. 
But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders. It is also used for headaches, bronchitis, colds, lung infections, fibromyalgia, leprosy, fever, menstrual problems, and cancer. Other uses include depression, Alzheimer ’s disease, water retention, worms, and kidney problems. Some people apply turmeric to the skin for pain, ringworm, bruising, leech bites, eye infections, inflammatory skin conditions, soreness inside of the mouth, and infected wounds.
Director of integrative medicine at Northern Westchester Hospital in New York, Dr. Minerva Santos, recommends 1,000 milligrams of turmeric supplements per day for patients suffering from joint inflammation, while the University of Maryland Medical Center recommends 400 to 600 milligrams three times a day. How to Use Turmeric to Reduce Inflammation. Turmeric is responsible for the bright yellow color in mustard. Photo Credit pixeldepth/iStock/Getty Images. Turmeric is a bright yellow spice often used in Asian cooking.
Turmeric (Curcuma longa) has been used for 4,000 years to treat a variety of conditions. Studies show that turmeric may help fight infections and some cancers, reduce inflammation, and treat digestive problems. A relative of ginger, turmeric is a perennial plant that grows 5 to 6 feet high in the tropical regions of Southern Asia, with trumpet-shaped, dull yellow flowers. Its roots are bulbs that also produce rhizomes, which then produce stems and roots for new plants.
Overview. Turmeric (Curcuma longa) has been used for 4,000 years to treat a variety of conditions. Studies show that turmeric may help fight infections and some cancers, reduce inflammation, and treat digestive problems. Many studies have taken place in test tubes and animals. Turmeric may not work as well in humans. A relative of ginger, turmeric is a perennial plant that grows 5 to 6 feet high in the tropical regions of Southern Asia, with trumpet-shaped, dull yellow flowers. Its roots are bulbs that also produce rhizomes, which then produce stems and roots for new plants.
When specific medicinal effects are desired, higher doses of turmeric can be given or extracts of Curcuma longa or curcumin can be used. The recommended dosage for curcumin as an anti-inflammatory is 400 to 600 milligrams three times per day. To achieve a similar amount of curcumin in the form of turmeric would require a dosage of 8,000 to 60,000 milligrams three times a day. 