cucuy. Known as the mexican boogeyman, the cucuy is the adult phase of an alien species now origionating from the Lincoln National Forest of New Mexico. Known for ferocity and stealthiness, the cucuy is feared by all children who know it's evil name.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Actually is not called cucuy or cucui. its called COCO. Coco is spanish means coconut, but COCO reffering to the mexican boogieman, is a slang using the same name EL COCO Hope my answers helps you. _-_ · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
The Coco (or Cuco, Coca, Cuca, Cucuy) is a mythical ghost-monster, equivalent to the bogeyman, found in many Hispanic and Lusophone countries. He can also be considered a Hispanic version of a bugbear, as it is a commonly used figure of speech representing an irrational or exaggerated fear. The word cocuruto in Portuguese means the crown of the head and the highest place. In Basque, Gogo means  spirit . In Galicia, crouca means head, from proto-Celtic *krowkā- , with variant croca; cróca and either coco or coca means. head
She tells them what happened when she got off the bus and that El Cucuy is who killed the attacker. Later that night, Nick asks Juliette if she knows about El Cucuy, and she says it's like the bogeyman. Juliette tells him her grandma used it as a threat to get Juliette to behave as a kid. Nick and Juliette go to the trailer to try to find something about El Cucuy but are unable to find anything in any of the books. Juliette suggests that maybe El Cucuy isn't even a Wesen. David Florez is walking down the street when Ray Bolton and two other men pull up in a truck next to him.
Behavior. Like the bogeyman, el cucuy may hide in a closet or under the bed, or he may come out of the dark to terrorize a child. His name may be whispered to a child by parents to frighten the child into staying close by and behaving well. “Portate bien o te lleva el cucuy,” a parent may say. During the Portuguese and Spanish colonization of Latin America, the legend of the Cuco was spread to countries such as Mexico, Argentina and Chile. In the Mexican-American community the creature is known as El cucuy. Other names include coco, cocu, cuco, chucho and chamuco.
The word coco is used in colloquial speech to refer to the human head in Portuguese and Spanish. Coco also means skull. The word cocuruto in Portuguese means the crown of the head and the highest place. In Basque, Gogo means  spirit . In Galicia, crouca means head, from proto-Celtic *krowkā- , with variant croca; cróca and either coco or coca means. head
1 El Cucuy is the Spanish version of the bogeyman. 2  Mrs. Garcia's apartment number is 305, a reference to the episode number. 3  This is the first episode to feature a Spanish version of the opening quote. Nick and Juliette go to the trailer to try to find something about El Cucuy but are unable to find anything in any of the books. Juliette suggests that maybe El Cucuy isn't even a Wesen. David Florez is walking down the street when Ray Bolton and two other men pull up in a truck next to him.
cucuy. El cucuy is about the equivelant to the boogie man, but is much scarier. Contrary to what people believe its not just the MEXICAN boogieman, many different Spanish speaking countries tell stories about the Cucuy. Some say that the Cucuy lives in the closet. Known as the mexican boogeyman, the cucuy is the adult phase of an alien species now origionating from the Lincoln National Forest of New Mexico. Known for ferocity and stealthiness, the cucuy is feared by all children who know it's evil name.
El Cucuy is the fifth episode of Season 3 of Grimm and the forty-ninth episode overall. It first aired on November 29, 2013 on NBC. Nick and Juliette go to the trailer to try to find something about El Cucuy but are unable to find anything in any of the books. Juliette suggests that maybe El Cucuy isn't even a Wesen. David Florez is walking down the street when Ray Bolton and two other men pull up in a truck next to him.
Because two of his daughters are lazy, a widower calls for el Cucuy, the bogeyman in Spanish-speaking cultures. El Cucuy takes them away to his mountain cave; they re rescued by a shepherd and return polite and helpful. Baja para llevarte a estas malcriadas. Come and get these bad girls. The girls make fun of their father s belief in a bogeyman, and what happens next is not surprising el Cucuy comes to get them and carries them away to his cave.