However, some may develop chronic (long-term) Hepatitis B infection that can lead to cirrhosis, liver cancer, liver failure, and death. The onset of Hepatitis B is usually more insidious than Hepatitis A. Incubation Period The incubation period is usually 45-180 days with an average of 60-90 days. 
The incubation period for hepatitis B virus (HBV) is 30-180 days (average, approximately 75 days). Patients then enter the prodromal or preicteric phase, characterized by the gradual onset of anorexia, malaise, and fatigue. The incubation period of hepatitis E virus (HEV) is 2-9 weeks (average, 45 days). HEV usually causes an acute self-limited disease similar to HASV infection. Fulminant disease does occur in about 10% of cases. In women who are pregnant, HEV infection has a case-fatality rate of 15-20%.
Transmission. The hepatitis B virus can survive outside the body for at least 7 days. During this time, the virus can still cause infection if it enters the body of a person who is not protected by the vaccine. The incubation period of the hepatitis B virus is 75 days on average, but can vary from 30 to 180 days. The virus may be detected within 30 to 60 days after infection and can persist and develop into chronic hepatitis B. Hepatitis B is a potentially life-threatening liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus. It is a major global health problem. It can cause chronic infection and puts people at high risk of death from cirrhosis and liver cancer.
1 For hepatitis A, the incubation period is 2 to 6 weeks. 2  For hepatitis B, the incubation period is between 4 and 20 weeks. 3  For hepatitis C, it's estimated that the incubation period is 2 to 26 weeks. A person is contagious during the hepatitis D incubation period. Someone who is infected with hepatitis D begins to be contagious early in the incubation period. The point at … which a person is thought to be most contagious is right before symptoms begin.
The incubation period (the time between initial contact with the virus and onset of the disease) for hepatitis B ranges from 45 to 180 days with an average of 60 to 90 days. The length of the incubation period depends on the amount of virus to which a person is exposed. 
The period between transmission of the hepatitis B virus and the beginning of symptoms of hepatitis B -- which is known as the hepatitis B incubation period -- lasts between 30 and 180 days. When a person becomes infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV), the virus begins to multiply within the liver cells. This period between hepatitis B transmission and the start of hepatitis B symptoms is called the hepatitis B incubation period.. The hepatitis B incubation period can be as short as 30 days or as long as 180 days.
Hepatitis C. The incubation period for hepatitis C virus (HCV) is 15-150 days, with symptoms developing anywhere from 5-12 weeks after exposure. During acute HCV infection, symptoms may appear similar to those of HBV infection. In up to 80% of cases, however, patients are asymptomatic and do not develop icterus. The incubation period of hepatitis E virus (HEV) is 2-9 weeks (average, 45 days). HEV usually causes an acute self-limited disease similar to HASV infection. Fulminant disease does occur in about 10% of cases. In women who are pregnant, HEV infection has a case-fatality rate of 15-20%.
Some people with hepatitis B or C may also become lifelong carriers of these viruses and can spread them to other people. 1  For hepatitis A, the incubation period is 2 to 6 weeks. 2  For hepatitis B, the incubation period is between 4 and 20 weeks. 3  For hepatitis C, it's estimated that the incubation period is 2 to 26 weeks. A person is contagious during the hepatitis D incubation period. Someone who is infected with hepatitis D begins to be contagious early in the incubation period. The point at … which a person is thought to be most contagious is right before symptoms begin.
After 4 to 12 weeks (on average), hepatitis B symptoms can begin. This period between hepatitis B transmission and the start of hepatitis B symptoms is called the hepatitis B incubation period.. The hepatitis B incubation period can be as short as 30 days or as long as 180 days. This incubation period is dependent of the number of virus particles a person is exposed to
The incubation period of hepatitis A virus (HAV) is 2-7 weeks (average, 28 days). Clinical symptoms then develop, often with a presentation similar to that of gastroenteritis or a viral respiratory infection. The incubation period of hepatitis E virus (HEV) is 2-9 weeks (average, 45 days). HEV usually causes an acute self-limited disease similar to HASV infection. Fulminant disease does occur in about 10% of cases. In women who are pregnant, HEV infection has a case-fatality rate of 15-20%.