This is because the breakdown of glucose is incomplete. Anaerobic respiration produces an oxygen debt. This is the amount of oxygen needed to oxidise oxidation: Oxidation is a reaction in which oxygen combines with a substance. Oxidation also means a loss of electrons. lactic acid to carbon dioxide and water.
In this process, energy, carbon dioxide, and lactic acid or alcohol are produced by the breakdown of glucose molecules. Read more at Buzzle: http://www.buzzle.com/articles/aerobic-and-anaerobic-respiration.html.
In yeast cells the waste product of anaerobic respiration is ethanol, but in animal cells it is lactic acid. Once the oxygen concentration in the cells goes up again, the lactic acid is broken down in aerobic respiration to produce carbon dioxide, water and more ATP.
Aerobic respiration, a process that uses oxygen, and anaerobic respiration, a process that doesn't use oxygen, are two forms of cellular respiration. Although some cells may engage in just one type of respiration, most cells use both types, depending on an organism's needs.
Structure of a mitochondrion. In aerobic respiration, pyruvate is transported into a mitochondrion, where the process of oxidation is completed. Respiration is the oxidation of energy-rich storage molecules, primarily glucose, to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP), a nucleotide with multiple functions.
All cells need glucose and oxygen for respiration. The glucose is broken down into carbon dioxide and water and this makes energy available for all of the other reactions which take place in your cells. The energy source for cells is the molecule ATP.
In anaerobic respiration, which occurs during fermentation, less energy is extracted — only two ATP molecules per glucose molecule — because the products of the process, such as ethanol or lactic acid, contain more energy than does carbon dioxide, the product of aerobic respiration.
Anaerobic respiration is respiration without oxygen; the process uses a respiratory electron transport chain but does not use oxygen as the electron acceptors. Cells that use it. Aerobic respiration occurs in most cells.