1 According to the website AdviceIQ.com, the average rate for a financial advisor can cost $200 to $500 per hour, with a total of more than $5,000 for a complete consultation and planning session. 2  For a fee based advisor, the financial advisor can charge a percentage based on your assets. 1 For planners that charge on a hourly basis, the rates can greatly range anywhere from $75 to as much as $500 per hour. 2  This rate will widely depend upon the planner’s credentials, their demand and qualifications.
$1,500. $1,500. Edward now understands that the total fees for the first year are $8,000. Of course an adviser must be remunerated for their services, however, it's in your best interest to know how much and how often you will pay for the advice you receive. As a guide, expect to pay between $200 and $700 for simple advice and between $2000 and $4000 for more comprehensive advice. If you've agreed to ongoing advice, some of the cost may be paid over time.
How you may be charged. A financial adviser can charge you in several different ways. These include: 1  An hourly rate – this will vary from £75 an hour to £350, although the UK average rate is about £150 an hour. 2  A set fee for a particular piece of work – this could be several hundred or several thousand pounds. 1
Here is a menu of some common adviser services, and their typical cost. Actual prices will vary according to the level of service you are offered, so bear this in mind when comparing advisers (with our adviser checklist) to see who delivers the best value overall. Download our full cost of advice guide here.
As fee only financial advisors one of the most common queries we receive from the web has to do with how much a financial plan costs. It’s a good question as there are a number of ways you can pay for a plan, from fee-only to commission only. Of course, in implementing the plan, the brokerages would sell you commissionable investment products. As for fee only planners such as ourselves, hourly rates cover a wide range, and the rates we’ve encountered range from $150 per hour to nearly $300. If your situation is fairly straightforward and you don’t need much investment advice, plan on paying somewhere over $1,000 for your plan. We’ll be adding plans to our sample plan page, and that will provides some insight into the cost of a plan for people in a variety of situations from simple to complex
Consider negotiating with the adviser about the amount you'll pay for the advice. The cost of the advice will depend on its scope. As a guide, expect to pay between $200 and $700 for simple advice and between $2000 and $4000 for more comprehensive advice. If you've agreed to ongoing advice, some of the cost may be paid over time.
A lot of fee-only financial planners will charge hourly for advice. The trick is to find a fee-only guy or gal who is not so “up market” they will still talk with you. Hourly rates vary with region and experience, just like lawyers. But I’d expect anywhere from $75 to $250. 
1 For a fee based advisor, the financial advisor can charge a percentage based on your assets. 2  This can range anywhere from 0.75% to 1.5%. 3  For instance, if you had assets worth $100,000, the advisor would charge around $10,000 annually. 1 For planners that charge on a hourly basis, the rates can greatly range anywhere from $75 to as much as $500 per hour. 2  This rate will widely depend upon the planner’s credentials, their demand and qualifications.
Remember, the definition of good financial advice is that it leaves you better off in the long term. But the short-term cost does deter a lot of people. A good rule of thumb is that if you have £10,000 or more to invest, then a financial adviser is likely to deliver net benefits. That is, you should gain more in the long run than you would by planning your own finances, even allowing for the cost of the advice. Actual prices will vary according to the level of service you are offered, so bear this in mind when comparing advisers (with our adviser checklist) to see who delivers the best value overall. Download our full cost of advice guide here.