Try to keep the quail eggs at the correct humidity prior to incubation which is a humidity of 84-88%. Make sure the stored quail eggs are turned twice daily before they are incubated. Keep the stored quail eggs in an egg carton and prop up one end at a 35 degree angle. Hope this information helps. When handling quail eggs make sure that hands are washed to avoid bacterial contamination. Before incubation, quail eggs can be stored for up to 7 days. When storing quail eggs before incubating, make sure that they are kept at a constant temperature of 13-18 degrees Celsius or 55-65 degrees Fahrenheit. Do not store the quail eggs at ordinary room temperature or in a refrigerator
Embryos have survived at temperatures below 90°F for up to 18 hours. You should continue to incubate the eggs after the outage; then candle them 4 to 6 days later to check for further development or signs of life. If, after 6 days, you do not see life or development in any of the eggs, then terminate incubation. Most of the time, a power outage will delay hatching by a few days and decrease the hatchability to 40-50 percent. Humidity The relative humidity of the air within an incubator should be about 60 percent. 
If it is necessary to hold the eggs before you set them, turn them daily and keep them in a room where the temperature is around 50 o F (10 C) and the relative humidity is 70 to 80 percent. The vegetable section of your refrigerator could be used for holding the egg until it is time to place them in the incubator. PREPARING THE EGGS FOR INCUBATION. Eggs must be turned while in the incubator, so before you put in the eggs mark them with a pencil so you can tell when they have been properly turned. An excellent method is to put an X on one side of the egg and an 0 on the opposite side.
Turn the eggs to a new position once daily until placing in the incubator. Hatchability holds well up to seven days, but declines rapidly after that. Try not to store eggs more than 7 days before incubating. A 14 day storage reduces hatch to near 50% and after 3 weeks of storage, hatchability drops to almost zero. Plan ahead and have a regular hatching schedule to avoid storage problems and reduced hatch percentages. Nearly all fertilized chicken eggs will hatch after 21 days of good conditions - 99.5F °(37.5 °C) Eggs must be turned regularly (usually three to eight times each week) duri … ng the first part of the incubation.
Temperature: The eggs need to be kept at 99.5 degrees at all times; just one degree higher or lower for a few hours can terminate the embryo. Humidity: 40 to 50 percent humidity must be maintained for the first 18 days; 65 to 75 percent humidity is needed for the final days before hatching. It takes 21 days on average for an egg to hatch once incubation begins. Before placing the eggs inside, turn on the heat source and measure the temperature and humidity over a 24-hour period, making adjustments as necessary to create the optimal environment.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 
Once you've chosen your eggs, put them in an open egg carton with the big end of the egg up. The eggs should be stored in a cool moist place, around 55 degrees Fahrenheit and 75% humidity --- think root cellar. You might need to dampen a towel to keep the eggs moist enough. 