The Delmarva Peninsula sits in the Mid-Atlanic region of the United States between the Chesapeake Bay to its west and the Delaware Bay and Atlantic Ocean to its East. The peninsula has areas that are in three states with its name being formed from letters of the states of Delaware, Maryland and Virginia. From the C&D canal to the peninsula’s southern point at the tip of the Eastern Shore of Virginia it is about 180 miles. At its widest it’s about 60 miles, although most of the peninsula is much narrower.
The Delmarva Peninsula sits on the Eastern Coast of the United States of America and it is mostly in Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia. Chesapeake Bay sits to its west and the … Atlantic Ocean is to its east. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Delmarva From DELewar-MARyland-VirginiA. The name Delmarva is a combination of the traditional abbreviations of the three states that make up it's land mass: DELaware, MARyland and VirginiA-DEL MAR VA.
It is separated from the rest of the peninsula by the Keweenaw Waterway, a natural waterway which was dredged and expanded in the 1860s across the peninsula between the cities of Houghton (named for Douglass Houghton) on the south side and Hancock on the north. The Keweenaw Peninsula (/ˈkiːwɨnɔː/ KEE-wi-naw, sometimes locally /ˈkiːvənɔː/) is the northernmost part of Michigan 's Upper Peninsula. It projects into Lake Superior and was the site of the first copper boom in the United States. As of the 2000 census, its population was roughly 43,200.
The name “California” eventually was used to refer to the entire peninsula of Baja (Lower) California, comprising what are now the states of Baja California Sur and Baja California Norte–in Mexico– as well as what is now the state of California, USA, originally known as Alta California–upper California. The Gulf of California is now also known as Sea of Cortes. After the war on 1846 Alta California became part of the USA and the “Alta” part of its name was dropped. Baja California remained in Mexico keeping the “Baja” as part of its name.
The name California was first used by the Spanish for the southern tip of Baja California peninsula, which they called the Island of California (they thought it was an island at this time). The state of California gets its name from the region, which was originally called California by the Spanish. This area included the Baja California peninsula along with the current US states of California, Nevada, Utah and parts of Wyoming, New Mexico and Arizona. 
The Delmarva Peninsula or simply Delmarva is a large peninsula on the East Coast of the United States, occupied by most of Delaware and portions of Maryland and Virginia. Although called a peninsula, it is technically an island after the digging of the Chesapeake and Delaware Canal. The peninsula is 170 miles (274 km) long. At its southern tip the Delmarva Peninsula is connected to Virginia Beach and Hampton Roads, Virginia, via the Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel.
The Delmarva Peninsula is the peninsula that the states of Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia share. Delmarva is a combination of an abbreviation of all three state's names in a … lphabetical order. Delaware + Maryland + Virginia = Delmarva. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Delmarva From DELewar-MARyland-VirginiA. The name Delmarva is a combination of the traditional abbreviations of the three states that make up it's land mass: DELaware, MARyland and VirginiA-DEL MAR VA.
At various times in its history residents of the Maryland and Virginia portion of the peninsula have propose that they should secede from their respective states. Some believe they should join Delaware to create a new state called Delmarva. From the C&D canal to the peninsula’s southern point at the tip of the Eastern Shore of Virginia it is about 180 miles. At its widest it’s about 60 miles, although most of the peninsula is much narrower.