The lymphatic system. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood. But the lymphatic system tubes are much finer and carry a colourless liquid called lymph. Lymph contains a high number of a type of white blood cells called lymphocytes that fight infection and destroy damaged or abnormal cells.
1 Afferent lymphatic vessels carry unfiltered lymph into the node. 2  Here waste products, and some of the fluid, are filtered out. 3  In another section of the node, lymphocytes, which are specialized white blood cells, kill any pathogens that may be present. 4  This causes the swelling commonly known as swollen glands. 
Several afferent vessels carry lymph into the nodes and enter the e … fferent vessels to carry lymph away from the nodes. Because there are more afferent than efferent vessels, the passage of lymph through the sinuses are slowed down, allowing time for the cleansing process. 17 people found this useful. 
Lymph enters vessels known as the subclavian veins, which transport it back to the circulatory system. Afferent vessels transport fluid into the lymph nodes, while efferent vessels carry filtered lymph away from the lymph nodes. White blood cells called lymphocytes are a major part of the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes may become swollen when a person gets sick. After the lymph has been filtered by the lymph nodes, it passes into the efferent vessels. These lymph vessels come together in large groups sometimes referred to as a lymph trunk. They drain the filtered fluid into one of two lymph ducts, which are very large lymphatic vessels.
Our bodies have a network of lymph vessels and lymph nodes. (Lymph is pronounced limf.) This network is a part of the body’s immune system. It collects fluid, waste material, and other things (like viruses and bacteria) that are in the body tissues, outside the bloodstream. 
In anatomy, lymphatic vessels or lymph vessels are thin walled, valved structures that carry lymph. As part of the lymphatic system, lymph vessels are complementary to the cardiovascular system. Generally, lymph flows away from the tissues to lymph nodes and eventually to either the right lymphatic duct or the largest lymph vessel in the body, the thoracic duct. These vessels drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively.
Lymphatic vessels carry lymph to and from lymph nodes, where the lymph is filtered for potentially threatening agents, such as bacteria, fungi, or cancer cells. When a threat is detected, your lymph nodes react by producing immune cells, antibodies, and inflammatory chemicals. 
What the lymphatic system is. The lymphatic system is a system of thin tubes and lymph nodes that run throughout the body. These tubes are called lymph vessels or lymphatic vessels. The lymph system is an important part of our immune system. But the lymphatic system tubes are much finer and carry a colourless liquid called lymph. Lymph contains a high number of a type of white blood cells called lymphocytes that fight infection and destroy damaged or abnormal cells.
The lymph capillaries flow into the lymphatic collecting vessels and carry the lymph to the lymphatic trunks. The lymphatic trunks drain fairly large areas of the body and eventually empty the lymph back into the circulatory system via the thoracic duct or the right lymphatic duct. 