A 21.00 per square foot shell will usually cost another 20.00 to 25.00 (Basic Finish) per square foot to complete the interior for A total of around 40.00 to 45.00 per square foot. Not including the foundation, grading, septic tank, utility hook ups, porches or decks.
The cost of a shell can be as low as $20 to $30 per square foot. Even expensive contractors can put up a shell for a fraction of the price of completing the home.
At least half of the cost of your home will be accrued in the finishing touches. If you wish to finish out the shell yourself, you could possibly spend only $20 per square foot. That is a substantial savings. The fact is that finishing the interior is very time consuming for the contractor.
Finishing a Satterwhite log home is virtually identical to finishing a conventional house. The total cost of a Satterwhite Log Home is comparable to a well-built conventional home. Prices quoted on this website include shell components only (dried-in, without interior finishing).
I'm trying to determine a rough estimate on what it would cost to build. I would do the majority of the finish work myself, but would want the shell (foundation, walls, sheathing, rough electric and plumbing) done by the pros.
Cost to Finish The Log Cabin Shells. You can pick up this 1800 square feet home package pictured at the factory and erect it yourself for 21.00 per square foot. All erected home prices are included with the plans.
This is a big factor whether you are finishing out a steel building or building a traditional house. Most building materials are sized to be used with an eight foot ceiling. If you go up to ten feet, you will add cost for longer studs and sheet rock. The alternative is to finish it out at eight feet and have an attic.
We get the number $1,944 and $2592. Adding about $500 for additional support pillars under the house, should leave you with a good idea of how much a crawl space foundation will cost. Basement – Unfinished basement costs in the US vary from $12 to $28 per square foot.