Humanistic Integrative Counselling is inspired by a range of creative theories which encompasses the contributions of Humanistic and Existential Psychology, Psychodynamic Psychotherapy and Transpersonal Psychology.
Humanistic and integrative psychotherapy encourages the distinctly human qualities of choice and creativity. It recognises that we are strongly influenced by forces in society and in the unconscious, and some of these are negative and destructive.
Tag: BACP, counselling, counselling diploma, counselling training in london, CPPD, cppd london, humanistic integrative counselling, jenny sandelson, london counselling, lynne kaye, working with depression.
The humanistic and integrative approach to psychotherapy is guided by a range of values, philosophical assumptions about human nature and experience, and of theoretical perspectives in understanding human experience and how to work with human distress.
Humanistic and integrative psychotherapy emphasizes a hopeful view of human beings and of their ability to be self-determining.
Psychotherapists who work in a Humanistic and integrative approach create a space for individual’s to develop and awareness around what is preventing them from living their life to its fullest. This approach runs counter to the scientific tenets of behaviourism and analytic approach of Freudian Psychoanalysis.
Integrative therapy, or integrative counselling is a combined approach to psychotherapy that brings together different elements of specific therapies. Integrative therapists take the view that there is no single approach that can treat each client in all situations.
Humanistic Integrative Counselling recognises that there are significant connections between all approaches to counselling. It acknowledges that different clients have different needs and believes that no one single approach is sufficient.
Humanistic and integrative psychotherapy has its roots in humanistic philosophy, which emphasises human dignity and the human capacity for fulfilment. It aims to work with a full range of influences to encourage the development of the individual and her/his relationship to others and to society.