This song is about how george harrison veiws the world. While my guitar gently weeps, is a metaphor how george is so sad about the world and tries to teach us threw slow sad songs Asa-Atlanta, Ga. random fact L'Angelo Misterioso is italian for mystierous angel. Wu Tang Clan samples this song on their song The Heart Gently Weeps. The members of Wu who rapped on the song were Method Man, Ghostface Killa, and Raekwon. Erykah Badu sang the chorus. John Frusciante played lead guitar on the track with Dhani Harrison (George Harrison's son) playing rythem guitar.
The lyrics for While My Guitar Gently Weeps, George Harrison's first truly great Beatles song, began as an accident — but a deliberate one. The initial studio recording of While My Guitar Gently Weeps, from July 25th, 1968 (later included on Anthology 3), was a subdued, nearly solo acoustic piece with an extra verse at the end, very much along the lines of Harrison's original demo.
While My Guitar Gently Weeps is ranked at number 136 on Rolling Stone ‍ '​s . The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time , number 7 on the magazine's list of the 100 Greatest Guitar Songs of All Time, and number 10 on its list of The Beatles 100 Greatest Songs. I picked up a book at random, opened it, saw 'gently weeps', then laid the book down again and started the song.. . While My Guitar Gently Weeps  is a song written by George Harrison, first recorded by the Beatles in 1968 for their eponymous double album (also known as the White Album). The song features lead guitar by Eric Clapton, although he was not formally credited on the album
While My Guitar Gently Weeps is a song written by George Harrison featuring the lead guitar of Eric Clapton. It was first performed by The Beatles for their double album The Beatles (also known as The White Album). Denne funksjonen er ikke tilgjengelig for oeyeblikket. øyeblikket proev prøv. Igjen senere lastet. opp. 21. Jan 2011-The Beatles While My Guitar gently. Weeps 1968 While My Guitar gently weeps is a song Written By george harrison featuring the lead Guitar Of. eric clapton
While My Guitar Gently Weeps is found on The Beatles, otherwise known as The White Album. While My Guitar Gently Weeps is a song written and sung by George Harrison. It was included on The Beatles album, also known as The White Album. This song has appeared on Rolling Stone's Top 500 Songs List at #135, and #7 on Rolling Stone's Top 100 Greatest Guitar Songs. 
I look at you all, see the love there that's sleeping. While my guitar gently weeps. Look at you all...... Still my guitar gently weeps. . While My Guitar Gently Weeps  is a song written by George Harrison, first recorded by the Beatles in 1968 for their eponymous double album (also known as The White Album). The song features lead guitar by Eric Clapton, although he was not formally credited on the album. 
read more. While My Guitar Gently Weeps written by George Harrison for The Beatles on their double album The Beatles (also known as The White Album). 
George Harrison wrote the song, sang lead vocals and played rhythm guitar. Eric Clapton played the lead guitar solo, and afterwards gave Harrison the guitar he used. 
Eric Clapton played lead guitar on this song. He and George Harrison were good friends, but George had to convince him to come to the studio because Clapton was worried the other Beatles wouldn't want him there. Wu Tang Clan samples this song on their song The Heart Gently Weeps. The members of Wu who rapped on the song were Method Man, Ghostface Killa, and Raekwon. Erykah Badu sang the chorus. John Frusciante played lead guitar on the track with Dhani Harrison (George Harrison's son) playing rythem guitar.