A: The most common cause of new or come-and-go tongue swelling (or swelling of the lip or throat) is a type of allergic reaction called angioedema.. Sudden tongue swelling can sometimes be dangerous because it could block your airway. Two types of angioedema can lead to a swollen tongue: 1. If the tongue is so swollen that it's obstructing the airway, a breathing tube may need to be placed temporarily. 2. Angioedema from other causes. In some forms of angioedema, a body chemical called bradykinin causes the tongue swelling. Tongue and mouth swelling is usually the only symptom.
An_224258 posted: One side of my tongue is swollen as if it was a large 1 inch long blister but there is no fluid. IT is on the side of my tongue closer to the back vs the front of the tongue. It hurts most of the time especially when I eat and try to chew. Sometimes it hurts when I swallow. Thanks for your Reply! 1 Replies | Watch This Discussion | Report This | Share this:Swollen tongue on one side onlyOne side of my tongue is swollen as if it was a large 1 inch long blister but there is no fluid.
In case you have swollen under tongue, swollen back of tongue or the back of your tongue swollen, this is indicates a problem with your salivary glands. You could swollen back of the tongue with pain, no pain, with the chin swollen too, on one side, and so on. You may have a slightly swollen tongue or a severe one that might make eating, breathing and talking difficult. At times, it is not only your tongue that swells but also your voice box, taste buds (swollen tongue papillae), gums, mouth and even lips, depending on what causes the swelling.
A swollen tongue refers to a condition where a part (e.g. one side, the tip or the back of your tongue) or your entire tongue becomes enlarged, distended or bloated. You may have a slightly swollen tongue or a severe one that might make eating, breathing and talking difficult. At times, it is not only your tongue that swells but also your voice box, taste buds (swollen tongue papillae), gums, mouth and even lips, depending on what causes the swelling.
A swollen tongue is an abnormal condition in which the entire tongue or a portion of it is enlarged, bloated or distended. Your tongue is made up of muscles and the upper surface is lined with taste buds. Your tongue helps you to talk, swallow, taste and chew. A swollen tongue can result from infection, inflammation, allergy, genetic disorders, trauma, malignancy, metabolic diseases, and other abnormal processes. A chronically swollen tongue over a long period of time can be due to acromegaly, sarcoma, oral cancer, or Down syndrome.
Swollen tongue is also known as Tongue swelling. Swollen tongue is just a description of a tongue that has become larger then previously, this can happen because infection, inflammation, allergic reaction, a tumor growing inside of it, etc... ...Read more. 
Swelling the main symptoms you expect to have. If your tongue feels swollen some of the common symptoms and you may have include: 1  Chewing, swallowing and speaking difficulties. 2  Tongue color changes where it might be red or pale. 3  Blocked airways in case of a severe tongue swelling. 4  Swollen lymph nodes under your mandible and chin region. You may have a slightly swollen tongue or a severe one that might make eating, breathing and talking difficult. At times, it is not only your tongue that swells but also your voice box, taste buds (swollen tongue papillae), gums, mouth and even lips, depending on what causes th
An enlarged or swollen tongue can also occur as an allergic reaction to medications or other substances. In this case, the swelling is due to fluid accumulation in the tissues of the tongue, medically known as angioedema. A dramatically swollen tongue can lead to breathing problems and may be a medical emergency. Treatment of allergic reactions that include swollen tongue can include epinephrine, antihistamines, and/or steroid medication
Swelling of the tongue can occur due to inflammation of the tongue (known as glossitis), the presence of abnormal substances (such as amyloid protein) in the tongue, the collection of fluid in the tongue as a result of different disease processes, or tumors that infiltrate the tissues of the tongue. In this case, the swelling is due to fluid accumulation in the tissues of the tongue, medically known as angioedema. A dramatically swollen tongue can lead to breathing problems and may be a medical emergency.