Paragraph Alignment. Paragraph alignment determines how the lines in a paragraph appear in relation to the left and right margins. The margin is the blank space between the edge of the paper and where the text. The easiest way to change paragraph alignment is to use the alignment buttons on the Formatting toolbar. Line spacing is typically based on the height of the characters, but you can change it to a specific value. For example, some paragraphs may be single spaced and some double-spaced. Single-spacing is Word’s default setting. Paragraph space is the amount of space above or below a paragraph.
Apply Paragraph Shading and Borders. 1  Select the paragraph text you want to format. 2  Click the Home tab. 3  Click the Borders and Shading button arrow, and then click Borders and Shading. 4  Click the Borders tab. 5  Click to select the type of Setting you want for your border. 6  Click to select the type of Style. 1 Select the paragraph text you want to format. 2  Click the Home tab. 3  Click the Borders and Shading button arrow, and then click Borders and Shading. 4  Click the Borders tab. 5  Click to select the type of Setting you want for your border. 6  Click to select the type of Style. 7  Apply any other options you want.
4. When you format text as part of a list, each item in the list is automatically formatted with the List Paragraph Quick Style. If you later decide that you want headings to have a different look, you can change the Heading 1 and Heading 2 styles, and Word automatically updates all instances of them in the document. For example, if you are using the Word 2007 Quick Style set, and you want to emphasize a word in a paragraph, you can select it and then do one of two things: Format it with the Emphasis Quick Style. Italicize it (for example, by pressing CTRL+I).
It is a paragraph that introduces a process in the topic sentence and then explains the step-by-step nature of the process in the supporting sentences. 39 people found this useful. Edit. At the beginning or the end. Usually it is the first sentence. But it can be the second sentence especially when the first sentence is a sentence that links to the previous … paragraph.
Highlight all the text you want to change. On the ruler bar above  the text, click on *Right Indent*. (Hint: it looks like a small  raindrop on the right side of the ruler … bar.) Drag it to the left  to shorten the line length or to the right to lengthen it. If you want to put paragraph returns into your text in Excel,  hitting the Enter key would normally stop you from editing your  selected cell. However, if you hold down Alt+ … Enter, it puts a  return in your text.    You can also format the cell to allow the text to wrap within the  cell.
________ formatting is the process of changing the way letters, numbers, punctuation marks, and symbols appear on the screen and in print. A. Document B. Character C. Paragraph D. Object. What formatting is the process of changing the way letters, numbers, punctuation marks, and symbols appear on the screen and in print. A. Document B. Character C. Paragraph D. Object. (More). Question. Updated 1/31/2013 12:08:02 AM. 1 Answer/Comment. yeswey.
It is a paragraph that introduces a process in the topic sentence and then explains the step-by-step nature of the process in the supporting sentences. + 36 others found this useful. Ryan Householder. Edit. If you want to put paragraph returns into your text in Excel,  hitting the Enter key would normally stop you from editing your  selected cell. However, if you hold down Alt+ … Enter, it puts a  return in your text.    You can also format the cell to allow the text to wrap within the  cell.
A paragraph in Word is any text that ends with a hard return. You insert a hard return anytime you press the Enter key. Paragraph formatting lets you control the appearance if individual paragraphs. For example, you can change the alignment of text from left to center or the spacing between lines form single to double. Line spacing is typically based on the height of the characters, but you can change it to a specific value. For example, some paragraphs may be single spaced and some double-spaced. Single-spacing is Word’s default setting. Paragraph space is the amount of space above or below a paragraph.
On writing paragraphs       Creating a new paragraph usually involves a break or change in thought. This allows the reader to more easily digest sepa … rate ideas instead of tackling one long, long, long paragraph. At the beginning or the end. Usually it is the first sentence. But it can be the second sentence especially when the first sentence is a sentence that links to the previous …
Questions asked by the same visitor. What formatting is the process of changing the way letters, numbers, punctuation marks, and symbols appear on the screen and in print. A. Document B. Character C. Paragraph D. Object. (More). Question. Updated 1/31/2013 12:08:02 AM. 1 Answer/Comment. yeswey.