Zyflamend is not promoted by New Chapter as a product for the prevention, treatment, mitigation, or cure of breast cancer, prostate cancer, or any other specific disease or class of diseases. As with any dietary or herbal supplement, you should advise your health care practitioner of the use of this product. 
Zyflamend is a product that is primarily to be used to treat joint pain and inflammation. It is a patented blend of 10 natural herbal extracts that are all included in what the company calls ‘supercritical’ states i.e. they are the purest and most potent concentrations available. Certainly New Chapter appears to have a good reputation in the industry and its products are recommended by several health care professionals. Zyflamend is widely available and the New Chapter website provides links to retailers that carry the product. While the price of Zyflamend varies from store to store, it seems to average at approximately $35.00 for a 120 capsule bottle which, if taken at the recommended 2 capsules per day would last two months
Zyflamend has not been shown to treat cancer. Zyflamend is an herbal supplement consisting of Holy basil, turmeric, ginger, green tea, rosemary, hu zhang, Chinese goldthread, barberry, oregano, and skullcap. Promoters of Zyflamend claim that it has anti-inflammatory and antiaging effects. 
New Chapter is the manufacturing company for zyflamend prostate, a dietary supplement made with key ingredients that support prostate health and help patients acquire a normal urinary flow. 
New Chapter, the manufacturers of Zyflamend, produce a range of health supplements that are all presented on their attractive and informative website. The New Chapter company obviously prides themselves on the fact that they are ecologically-friendly and use sustainable, organic ingredients. Certainly New Chapter appears to have a good reputation in the industry and its products are recommended by several health care professionals. Zyflamend is widely available and the New Chapter website provides links to retailers that carry the product. While the price of Zyflamend varies from store to store, it seems to average at approximately $35.00 for a 120 capsule bottle which, if taken at the recommended 2 capsules per day would last two month
Zyflamend’s proprietary 10-herb blend delivers the full-spectrum of whole herbs, not isolated compounds. The whole-food Ginger in Zyflamend supports flexibility and comfortable movement with complementary Rosemary, Turmeric and Green Tea.*. New Chapter ® uses only supercritical CO 2 or traditional techniques to deliver super-pure, super-potent herbal extracts in this 100% vegetarian formulation. Zyfla mend ™ helps balance and support the whole body's natural, healthy inflammation response after excercise.*. Zyflamend delivers full-spectrum Ginger to help relieve minor pain or soreness related to exercise, such as a workout or brisk walk.*.
Zyflamend is manufactured by New Chapter, a company that produces food and herb-based supplements that are filled with vitamins and nutrients crucial top good health. The company’s goal is to provide health and wellness the way nature intended. The following herbs and extracts are found in Zyflamend: 1  Rosemary – Is known as a powerful anti-inflammatory. 2  Turmeric – Enhances joint health by increasing the flexibility of muscles and tendons. 3  Ginger – Boosts immunity and circulation. 4  Holy Basil – Used in Ayurvedic medicine to combat arthritis.
Zyflamend is also sold as a supplement that supports healthy joints and heart function and slows aging. Zyflamend contains phytonutrients, which nourish the body and naturally occur in fruits and vegetables. An example is beta-carotene. One ingredient, Hu Zhang, is a rich source of resveratrol, the beneficial ingredient found in wine. The ingredients in Zyflamend have been studied for their positive effect on health. Significance. Zyflamend acts much like anti-inflammatory medicines known as COX-2 inhibitors but without the side effects associated with drugs such as Vioxx. The herbs can help detoxify the liver and reduce inflammation associated with arthritis and injuries.
Zyflamend is an herbal preparation touted for its anti-inflammatory properties. It can be purchased from health food stores and Internet retailers. Significance. Zyflamend acts much like anti-inflammatory medicines known as COX-2 inhibitors but without the side effects associated with drugs such as Vioxx. The herbs can help detoxify the liver and reduce inflammation associated with arthritis and injuries.