Get help from a doctor now ›. 2-7 days: Alcohol withdrawal may start as early as the day following your drink, but usually bad withdrawal, called dts (delirium tremens) takes to 2-7 days to take effect. In most cases 2-4 days will be the usual latency.
Withdrawal usually begins 6 to 8 hours following a reduction in alcohol use, peaks 24 to 28 hours after the last drink, and can last up to 7 days. After you withdraw from alcohol, however, you can and may experience disrupted sleep patterns or changes in attention and concentration days to months after the last drink.
Yes: Alcohol withdrawal can often last up to 7 days after the last drink. So, after 10 days you should be ok. Note though that this is if you 100% abstain from any alcohol at all, even a sip. Also, taking alcohol and a benzodiazepene like Librium is extremely dangerous as it significantly raises your risk of seizure.
The acute alcohol withdrawal usually is over within 5-8 days but some people suffer from depressions, sleep disturbances and other diffuse symptoms for weeks or even months after a long period of drinking.
How long alcohol withdrawal lasts depends on several factors, especially how long the person has used alcohol and to what extent the person had developed a chemical dependency upon this particular drug.
Symptoms of Alcohol Withdrawal Syndrome. In general, how severe alcohol withdrawal symptoms become depends on how much and for how long a person has been drinking. Minor alcohol withdrawal symptoms often appear 6 to 12 hours after a person stops drinking. Sometimes a person will still have a measurable blood alcohol level when symptoms start.
So just how long do alcohol withdrawal symptoms last? General speaking there will be 2-4 days of acute withdrawal. Withdrawal symptoms are usually worst on the 2nd/3rd days after the last drink, but this will vary from person to person. The detox process is not that long; for most individuals, it will take as little as a week.
Alcohol withdrawal symptoms usually occur within 8 hours after the last drink, but can occur days later. Symptoms usually peak by 24 to 72 hours, but may go on for weeks.