Lipid bilayer is a universal component of all cell membranes. The structure is called a lipid bilayer because it composed of two layers of fatty acids organized in two sheets. The lipid bilayer is typically about five nanometers to ten nanometers thick and surrounds all cells providing the cell membrane structure.
The bilayer, most of which is a phospholipid bilayer, is permeable only to small, non-polar substances. In nature, the most common compounds to pass through the bilayer are carbon dioxide and oxygen.
The lipid bilayer is the main fabric of the membrane, and its structure creates a semi-permeable membrane. The hydrophobic core impedes the diffusion of hydrophilic structures, such as ions and polar molecules but allows hydrophobic molecules, which can dissolve in the membrane, to cross it with ease.
Figure 1. Permeation through a pure lipid bilayer. Only a limited number of molecules can cross biological membranes without the aid of transport proteins. Membrane impermeant molecules and ions require the aid of membrane transport proteins in order to cross the membrane.
The lipid bilayer moiety of biological membranes is considered to be the primary barrier to free diffusion of water and solutes. This conclusion arises from observations of lipid bilayer model membrane systems, which are generally less permeable than biological membranes.
We've learned about how our body uses this partnership in the mitochondria, digestive system, capillary blood... show more well, the entire question for biology is: A semi-permeable phospholipid bilayer in partnership with the processes of facilitated diffusion and active transport provides a valuable tool for our body.
Phospholipids serve a major function in the cells of all organisms: they form the phospholipid membranes that surround the cell and intracellular organelles such as the mitochondria. The cell membrane is a fluid, semi-permeable bilayer that separates the cell's contents from the environment, see animation below.
The lipid bilayer is a thin polar membrane made of two layers of lipid molecules. These membranes are flat sheets that form a continuous barrier around all cells.
Examples include gas molecules such as oxygen (O 2) and carbon dioxide (CO 2), steroid molecules, and fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E, and K). Surprisingly, some small polar molecules are capable of permeating the lipid bilayer without the aid of a membrane transport protein.