Crocosmia aurea (Pappe ex Hook.) Planch. is found in forest margins and forest floors from the Eastern Cape of South Africa to Uganada and the Central African Republic. It has sword shaped leaves and a lax arching spike of up to 10 flowers.
Cousins to the gladiola, these are hardy plants that produce clumps of green sword-shaped leaves, with tall, arching spikes of funnel-shaped blossoms appearing in mid to late summer.
Crocosmia aurea ssp. pauciflora is usually unbranched (but sometimes one or two branched) and has smaller flowers. Crocosmia × crocosmiiflora, often called Montbretia, is a frequently cultivated hybrid between Crocosmia aurea and Crocosmia pottsii. It has sword shaped leaves and orange-crimson flowers.
Native to South Africa, Crocosmia are members of the Iris family. They are easy to grow. The plants grow two to four feet tall in a season. Tube shaped flower colors include red, yellow, orange-yellow, and orange with splotches. Flowers bloom from July-October.
Crocosmia is a small genus of flowering plants in the iris family, Iridaceae. It is native to the grasslands of the Cape Floristic Region, South Africa. They can be evergreen or deciduous perennials that grow from basal underground corms.
Crocosmia. Crocosmia is a small genus of flowering plants in the iris family, Iridaceae. It is native to the grasslands of the Cape Floristic Region, South Africa. They can be evergreen or deciduous perennials that grow from basal underground corms. The basal, alternate leaves are cauline and distichous.
No late summer flower garden is complete without crocosmia's vibrant wands of scarlet, red, orange, and yellow. They offer a late pop of color when many gardens are languishing in the dog days. Their narrow, bladed foliage provides vertical accents much like gladiola leaves.
A single glance at the plant forms of glads and crocosmia leaves no question as to whether these are related. (Absolutely they are.) But these cousins certainly approach life differently. Glads are belle of the ball types, with kaleidoscope blooms and flowers festooned with wild patterns and ruffles.