These symptoms can also be caused by a cold virus other than a rhinovirus. Usually there is no fever; in fact, fever and more severe symptoms may indicate that you have the flu rather than a cold. Cold symptoms typically last for about 3 days. At that point the worst is over, but you may feel congested for a week or more.
View. comments. Cold hands are not only a sign that the weather's bitter-they could be a symptom of something more serious. There are at least a dozen conditions which cause chronic cold hands, including peripheral vascular disease and ME. But for an estimated nine million Britons, cold hands are a sign they have Raynaud's. An astonishing half a million Britons are thought to have the secondary form-where their symptoms are a sign of an underlying problem. It can be a side-effect of certain medication (such as migraine treatments, betablockers and the Pill), or exposure to chemicals or a virus.
A number of illnesses, particularly viral infections, can begin with symptoms that are similar to a cold or the flu but, upon closer inspection or further progression, can prove far more serious than a flu bug. Part of the reason many infections can be mistaken for a cold or a flu is because their symptoms are fairly non-specific. And they like to infect similar areas of the body. Flu, until it lays you out in the bed ...
Symptoms of a cold can be felt about 1-4 days after catching a cold virus. They start with a burning feeling in the nose or throat, followed by sneezing, a runny nose, and a feeling of being tired and unwell. This is the period when you are most contagious -- you can pass the cold to others -- so it's best to stay home and rest. Usually there is no fever; in fact, fever and more severe symptoms may indicate that you have the flu rather than a cold. Cold symptoms typically last for about 3 days. At that point the worst is over, but you may feel congested for a week or more.
With a minor virus it can even climb to 103 degrees Farenheit. If your child has a fever with her cold, you'll notice that when the fever comes down she'll act much less sick than she will if something more serious is going on. If your child has a cold, she may have a runny nose with mucus that starts out clear but can turn thick and gray, yellow, or green over seven to ten days. She may also have a headache, sore throat, or cough.
While that tickle in your throat can often be treated at home with over-the-counter cold medication coupled with Mom's advice to rest up and drink lots of fluids, sometimes a cough is a sign of something more serious than a cold. 
A child with a cold may have a runny nose with mucus that starts out clear but can turn thick and gray, yellow, or green over seven to 10 days. He may also have a headache, sore throat, or cough or run a low-grade fever. Here are three signs that your child has something more serious and needs to be seen by a doctor.
You can also apply a cold compress over the bridge of your nose or use a nasal spray decongestant to close off the small blood vessels. See your doctor if you’re unable to stop a nosebleed on your own. If a foreign object is the cause, your doctor can remove the object. If you have frequent nosebleeds, you could have a more serious problem. Dry air is the most common cause of nosebleeds. Living in a dry climate and using a central heating system can dry out the nasal membranes, which are tissues inside the nose. This dryness causes crusting
It can sometimes be difficult to tell if you have a cold or something potentially more serious such as flu, as the symptoms can be quite similar. The main differences are: Flu symptoms. 1  come on quickly. 2  usually include a headache, fever and aching muscles. 3  make you feel too unwell to continue your usual activities. Less common symptoms of a cold include: 1  a high temperature (fever) – this is usually about 37-39C (98.6-102.2F). 2  a headache. 3  earache – severe earache may be a sign of a middle ear infection. 4  muscle pain. 5  loss of taste and smell. 6  mild irritation of your eyes. 7  a feeling of pressure in your ears and face.