One of the projects is ‘Castor Bay’, and MD Electrical Installations undertook the complete electrical install of all processes and controls coupled with complete building services installation for the site. This major project was completed on time and within budget. Northern Ireland Water Service launched the upgrade of 4 major existing Water Treatment Facilities in the region, ‘Project Alpha’ is a £20 million project, one of the largest high profile ‘Waste Water’ projects for Dept of Regional Development in Northern Ireland.
MD Electrical Installations carried out both Castor Bay and Ballinrees Water Treatment Works, two sister schemes at the same time. Northern Ireland Water Service launched the upgrade of 4 major existing Water Treatment Facilities in the region, ‘Project Alpha’ is a £20 million project, one of the largest high profile ‘Waste Water’ projects for Dept of Regional Development in Northern Ireland.
Castor Bay is a relatively small North Shore suburb with a lot of heart. Since its settlement by Maori over 500 years ago, Castor Bay has been coveted as a desirable place to live. Sam Hunt was brought up in Castor Bay and was indeed inspired by its coastal beauty, with his lyrical poem “At Castor Bay”. Small local businesses have always thrived on the corner of Beach and Castor Bay Roads. In the 1960s, a grocery store and a butcher’s shop were well patronised by the locals.
32 Castor Bay Road, Castor Bay, North Shore City, NZ. Architecturally exciting, a fabulous family home and exceptionally great value offered by very realistic vendors. Rateable Value $1,705,000 This impressive home of nearly 400m2, sits high on the sought after northern slope of Castor Bay. A real chefs kitchen, generous dining room and family room all flow seamlessly through bifold doors to either lawn and garden or gorgeous pool .which the kids will love. Parties, BBQs, Al Fresco dining-Several perfect options.
Address: cnr Beach Rd & Castor Bay Rd, Castor Bay, North Shore. Phone: (09) 410 4488. Rating out of 10: Food: 8, Service: 7, Value: 8, Ambience: 7. Tempura lemon-feta risotto stuffed in inari pocket, served with pickled vegetable salad and pistachio-pink pepper labne from Salt in Castor Bay, Auckland. No matter how often small business experts warn of the short life span and high risk of new hospitality businesses, there never seems to be a shortage of candidates to take over established premises.
This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Follow Castor Oil to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow Castor Oil to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following Castor Oil i
Prior to the Harbour Bridge opening, Castor Bay was little more than a rural retreat with a collection of baches and holiday homes. With its safe swimming beach and idyllic surrounds, it’s had more than its fair share of literary residents, including poets D’Arcy Cresswell, R. A. K. Fairburn and Robin Hyde. Sam Hunt was brought up in Castor Bay and was indeed inspired by its coastal beauty, with his lyrical poem “At Castor Bay”. Small local businesses have always thrived on the corner of Beach and Castor Bay Roads. In the 1960s, a grocery store and a butcher’s shop were well patronised by the locals.
City: Castor Bay. This is the Castor Bay page list. You can click the title to browse the detail information.
Located on the North Shore in Castor Bay, we are conveniently situated and also service the surrounding neighbourhoods of Milford, Forrest Hill, Campbells Bay, Mairangi Bay, Sunnynook, Wairau Park, Rosedale and Takapuna. We have an excellent reputation, and in fact the centre has been in our community for over 20 years! With our emphasis on quality care in a homely atmosphere, our qualified teachers will ensure that your infant is nurtured in a loving, caring and stimulating environment. We offer a home away from home for babies and toddlers. Your child will have spaces to play, explore, experiment, cuddle, relax and have quiet time.