California is a State. It is one of the fifty states of the USA. California has counties. California is not in a or part of a Province. In correlation a state would equal a province.
State, Province, and Territory Codes for the United States and Canada | August 2012 4 State, Province, and Territory Codes for the United States and Canada The following tables provide the two-character state, province, and territory codes for the United States and Canada.
Province also describes an area of responsibility or expertise, for example: Yes, I work in the bookstore, but Children's Literature is not my strong point; ask Linda, that's her province. Answer A territory that represents an administrative part of a certain country.
The index is organized by California's geomorphic provinces.Also visit the California Geological Survey's homepage at http://www.conservation.ca.gov/cgs.There you will find more information on the geology, resources and geologic hazards of California.
It consists of the provinces of Prince Edward Islands (commonly ref … erred to as P.E.I.), New Brunswick and Nova Scotia. Collectively they have an area of 132,416 km2 (51,689 sq mi.) The Prairie province is a nickname for Saskatchewan.
Headquartered in Oakland, California, the St. Barbara Province maintains a broad range of ministries that cross ethnic, cultural and economic boundaries throughout California and in the states of Washington, Oregon, Arizona and New Mexico.
Answer Province describes a political or geographic area smaller than nation, but larger than district or city. A province is roughly equivalent to a state. For example: I li … ve in the province of Cebu, Philippines..
California is one of the 50 states of the United States of America, unlike Canada it does not have such places as provinces. Where are you from, certainly does not look as if you are person in the U.S.A. !truth! · 6 years ago.
The Franciscan Province of St. Barbara is the local administrative region of the Order of Friars Minor, a worldwide Catholic religious order founded by St. Francis in Assisi in 1209.