Definition of TONIC WATER. : a carbonated beverage flavored with a small amount of quinine, lemon, and lime. See tonic water defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Tonic water is a carbonated beverage that derives its somewhat bitter taste from the addition of quinine, which also makes it glow when exposed to UV light. It usually is flavored with lemon or lime and lots of sugar, and it often contains caffeine. Although tonic water lacks enough quinine to reduce the symptoms of malaria in normal amount, it still is known as a tonic — meaning that it is essentially healthful — because of its use of quinine.
Happily, the low dose of quinine found in a glass or two of tonic water isn't enough to trigger these issues in most people. However, for the unlucky few, even the small amount of quinine in tonic water can cause thrombocytopenia (doctors call this rare occurrence a gin and tonic purpura). Quinine is still used to treat malaria today, although doctors typically reserve it for cases when the pathogen responsible for the disease displays resistance to newer drugs. However, you'd have to drink almost 20 liters of today's dilute tonic water daily to achieve the daily dose typically prescribed for malaria.
Tonic water (or Indian tonic water) is a carbonated soft drink, in which quinine is dissolved. Originally used as a prophylactic against malaria, tonic water usually now has a significantly lower quinine content and is consumed for its distinctive bitter flavour. It is often used in mixed drinks, particularly in gin and tonic. Tonic water is often used as a drink mixer for cocktails, especially those made with gin or vodka (for example, a gin and tonic). Tonic water with lemon or lime flavour added is known as bitter lemon or bitter lime, respectively. Such soft drinks are more popular in Europe than in the United States
Tonic contains 83 mg. of quinine in a liter. An eight-ounce glass or tonic would only have about 20 mg of quinine, considerably less than the dose that used to be prescribed for leg cramps (200 to 300 mg). Clearly, quinine can be dangerous for certain people, but the FDA has not banned quinine from tonic water. Quinine gives this beverage its distinctive flavor. Either the FDA doesn’t consider tonic water a danger to public health or the agency worries about arousing the ire of millions of gin and tonic drinkers.
Tonic Water. Just because it contains the word water in its name and is carbonated doesn't mean that tonic water is in the same category as bubbly waters. Unlike the other carbonated options, tonic water has a distinct flavor and it certainly can't be swapped out (or in) for carbonated water. Tonic water is a bitter drink (a result of the addition of quinine) which pairs particularly well with gin. Also unlike the other waters, Tonic contains calories -- about 130 for 12 fluid ounces. CORRECTION: The post initially suggested that San Pellegrino does not contain additional carbonation; it does.
Tonic water and soda water may look the same, but the two drinks are actually quite different. Tonic water contains quinine, which is an all-natural crystalline alkaloid. Quinine has many medicinal properties including analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects. While the difference between the tonic and soda water is apparent, the two are often, mistakenly, used interchangeably. Tonic is best combined with gin, since it is a natural compliment to gin's piney taste.
Lime is often used to flavor tonic water. First patented in the mid-1800s in England, tonic water is a popular carbonated beverage that contains quinine. Tonic water is frequently used in cocktails. Drinking tonic water, also known as quinine water, has some reputed health benefits. Although tonic water lacks enough quinine to reduce the symptoms of malaria in normal amount, it still is known as a tonic — meaning that it is essentially healthful — because of its use of quinine.
Tonic water originally existed as a way to deliver quinine, an antimalarial drug derived from the bark of the South American cinchona tree. In the early 1800s, a British officer in colonial India invented the venerable gin and tonic when he realized that alcohol helped the medicine go down in the most delightful way. Quinine is still used to treat malaria today, although doctors typically reserve it for cases when the pathogen responsible for the disease displays resistance to newer drugs. However, you'd have to drink almost 20 liters of today's dilute tonic water daily to achieve the daily dose typically prescribed for malaria.