You might have heard that yellow or green mucus is a clear sign that you have an infection, but despite that common misperception, the yellow or green hue isn't due to bacteria. When you have a cold, your immune system sends white blood cells called neutrophils rushing to the area.
1 Cigarette smoking can exacerbate a sinus infection and yellow mucus. 2  When the yellow mucus is accompanied by bad taste or odor it is a sign that the bacterial infection has taken over. 3  In these cases there is often intense pain and sinus pressure in the forehead and facial areas--which, by the way, is preventable.
Sponsored link. Bright yellow mucus is commonly caused due to colds, bronchitis, sinus infections and flu. It can also be caused due to an allergic reaction to certain substances occurring in the patient’s environment. Nasal polyps or excessive dryness in the air can also result in bright yellow mucus in some individuals.
Sinusitis arises from the inflammation of the sinuses with a viral, bacterial, or fungal infection. Many people think that a yellow or green nasal discharge means a bacterial infection, which requires antibiotics but it is not true.
Causes of excessive sinus mucus. 1  Irritation due to environmental pollutants. 2  Infection--yellow mucus is often a sign of it. 3  Eating significant amounts of mucus producing foods. 4  this is often the main cause. 5  a combination of some foods and irritation and infection. 6  Trinities also called hay fever or runny nose.
Mucus that is thick, yellow or discolored is typical with this infection. 1  Acute sinusitis is a common problem producing facial pain and pressure. 2  Redness of the skin over the sinus, nasal congestion, postnasal drip, fever and headache may also occur.
Sinus infection is the leading cause of yellow-colored mucus. The sinuses are more prone to infection due to its role in keeping the air that enters the body clean and moistened. It also creates a lot of mucus to catch particles, bacteria and viruses that may harm the sinuses and the entire body.
But you can have perfectly clear mucus and have a terrible ear and sinus infection , Kao says. If you do have an infection, you'll likely also have other symptoms, such as congestion, fever, and pressure in your face, overlying the sinuses, Johns says.