Print Version. The half-life, which is the time required by the body to metabolize or inactivate 1/2 of a substance activity, for caffeine (doses lower than 4.50mg/lb) ranges from 2.5 to 10hrs. The modern average cup (8oz) of coffee may contain 100-200mgs of caffeine so its effects should be inactivated within 2-5hrs depending on individuality. But it may take the full day to eliminate all traces of caffeine from the body.
How Long Does Caffeine Stay in the Body? In most cases, caffeine has a half-life of about 5 hours (meaning 5 hours is needed to eliminate half the coffee amount). However, it might take longer – for instance, a pregnant woman might have caffeine in her system up to 20 hours after she ingests it.
The half-life, which is the time required by the body to metabolize or inactivate 1/2 of a substance activity, for caffeine (doses lower than 4.50mg/lb) ranges from 2.5 to 10hrs. Meaning, caffeine has little to no pharmacological effect after this time but may still be present in small amounts in the body. The variability in rates of elimination is due to an individual’s efficiency in metabolizing caffeine, not absorption. The modern average cup (8oz) of coffee may contain 100-200mgs of caffeine so its effects should be inactivated within 2-5hrs depending on individuality.
It also varies from man to woman. Scientifically, caffeine resides longer in women’s system than that of men. The average half-life of caffeine in healthy humans persists for 4.9 hours. In men, typically residing between 5 to 9 hours, after the consumption of caffeine. Studies have shown that coffee in excess amounts is harmful to the human body. Before the caffeine can leave the body, it casts manifold changes and impacts on varied elements of the body. Figures suggest a limited amount of 2-3 cups of coffee every day, and no more than that.
Onset and Duration. It takes approximately 15 to 45 minutes for caffeine to reach its peak levels in your bloodstream. Caffeine has a half-life of approximately five to six hours, meaning that it takes this long for its concentration in your bloodstream to reduce by half. 
Advertisement. It only takes 45 minutes for 99% of the caffeine to be absorbed through these membranes. In humans the half-life for caffeine is anywhere from 4 to 6 hours on average, which explains why the average energy drink or coffee’s effect lasts about 4 to 6 hours. This also interacts with the dopamine system in the brain, which is the feel good neurotransmitter. When adenosine is blocked by caffeine, the dopamine system works more efficiently. Furthermore, elevated levels of adenosine in the blood causes the adrenal glands to release adrenaline.
As long as caffeine is in your blood, it's effects will also manifest. The time it takes for the body to eliminate one half of a caffeine dose is normally between 3 to 12 hours. It is called the half-life of caffeine. Several factors can shorten or lengthen the half life of caffeine.
On a serious note, The half-life of caffeine in your body is about 6 hours. That means that if you consume a big cup of coffee with 200 mg of caffeine in it at 3:00 PM, by 9:00 PM about 100 mg of that caffeine is still in your system. Studies reveal that peak plasma levels of caffeine occur from 15 to 60 minutes after ingestion. Studies on the optimal time of pre-event loading for ergogenesis also ranged from 15 to 60 minutes. Blood half-life of caffeine was as low as two and as high as seven hours in the literature I reviewed.