1 Slide rack with ribs into upper-middle position and place foil lined pan on lower oven rack, making sure that foil covers rack. 2  Bake/roast ribs until fork-tender, 2-3 hours for spareribs and 1 1/2 hours-2 hours for baby back ribs. 1 Mix a dry rub of the sugar, paprika, pepper, garlic powder and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt in a small bowl. 2  Mix mustard and liquid smoke in another bowl. 3  Lay ribs directly on removed oven rack and lightly sprinkle with salt. 4  Brush both sides of slab with mustard mix and then sprinkle both sides with dry rub.
1 Place ribs, meat side down, in baking dishes. 2  Cover the baking dishes with aluminum foil and place in the oven. 3  If you are using small baby back ribs, take out after 3.5 hours. 4  If you are using regular baby back or St. Louis style ribs, then take out after 4 hours. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 225 degrees. 2  Season your ribs with Dale's marinade, your favorite rib rub, grill seasoning, or simply salt and pepper. 3 
Broil the ribs for about 5 minutes, until the sugar in the dry rub is bubbling and the ribs are evenly browned. Bake the ribs: Set the oven to 300°F. Move the ribs to an oven rack in the middle of the oven. Roast for 2 1/2 to 3 hours for spare ribs or 1 1/2 to 2 hours for baby back ribs. Halfway through cooking, cover the ribs with aluminum foil to protect them from drying out.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees. In a bowl combine all ingredients except ribs to make a sauce; season with salt and pepper. On a rack set in a roasting pan season ribs with salt and pepper and brush with a thick layer of sauce. Roast ribs, basting every 30 minutes, until tender and falling off the bone, about 1 1/2 hours. Slice into individual ribs before serving with potato salad. 1 cup mayonnaise.
1 Preheat oven to 225 degrees. 2  Season your ribs with Dale's marinade, your favorite rib rub, grill seasoning, or simply salt and pepper. 3  Place ribs, meat side down, in baking dishes. 4  Cover the baking dishes with aluminum foil and place in the oven. Directions. 1 
Microwave on high for 1 minute. Place the ribs on a baking sheet. Open one end of the foil on each slab and pour half of the braising liquid into each foil packet. Tilt the baking sheet in order to equally distribute the braising liquid. Braise the ribs in the oven for 2 1/2 hours. 
1 Season your ribs with Dale's marinade, your favorite rib rub, grill seasoning, or simply salt and pepper. 2  Place ribs, meat side down, in baking dishes. 3  Cover the baking dishes with aluminum foil and place in the oven. 4  If you are using small baby back ribs, take out after 3.5 hours. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 225 degrees. 2  Season your ribs with Dale's marinade, your favorite rib rub, grill seasoning, or simply salt and pepper. 3
1 Place ribs, bone side down, on the grill rack over the drip pan. 2  Cover and grill for 1-1/2 to 2 hours or until the ribs are tender, brushing occasionally with desired sauce during the last 15 minutes of grilling. 3  For a gas grill, preheat grill. 4  Reduce heat to medium. 1 Roast, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 1 hour. 2  Drain off fat. 3  If desired, brush ribs with sauce. 4  Continue to roast, uncovered, about 30 minutes more or until the ribs are tender, basting once with sauce, if desired.
1 Cover and grill for 1-1/2 to 2 hours or until the ribs are tender, brushing occasionally with desired sauce during the last 15 minutes of grilling. 2  For a gas grill, preheat grill. 3  Reduce heat to medium. 4  Adjust for indirect cooking and grill as above, except place ribs in a roasting pan. 1 Roast, uncovered, in the preheated oven for 1 hour. 2  Drain off fat. 3  If desired, brush ribs with sauce. 4  Continue to roast, uncovered, about 30 minutes more or until the ribs are tender, basting once with sauce, if desired.
1 Place the racks in the oven and bake the ribs for between 2 and 2½hours, or until they're tender. 2  Remove the ribs from the oven and uncover them. 3  Let them to cool for 15 minutes. 4  Apply the barbecue sauce liberally to the ribs and return them back to the oven, leaving them uncovered. 