Mannitol is a diuretic. Mannitol is used to force urine production in people with acute (sudden) kidney failure. Increased urine production helps to keep the kidneys from shutting down, and also speeds up elimination of certain toxic substances in the body.
The resulting 280 mL of 7.2% solution is infused at a rate of 20 mL per minute. The urine is collected by catheter for a specific period of time and analyzed for mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection) injection) excreted in mg
Test Dose: A test dose of mannitol should be given prior to instituting Mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection) injection) I.V. therapy for patients with marked oliguria or those believed to have inadequate renal function. In adults the dose is 0.2 g/kg body weight.
Mannitol Salt Agar. Mannitol Salt Agar (MSA) is a selective and differential medium. The high concentration of salt (7.5%) selects for members of the genus Staphylococcus, since they can tolerate high saline levels. Organisms from other genera may grow, but they typically grow very weakly.
Mannitol Salt Agar (MSA) is a selective and differential medium. The high concentration of salt (7.5%) selects for members of the genus Staphylococcus, since they can tolerate high saline levels. Organisms from other genera may grow, but they typically grow very weakly.
Mannitol may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not receive mannitol if you have severe kidney disease, lung swelling or congestion, severe dehydration, bleeding in your brain not caused by surgery, or if your kidneys have already shut down and you are unable to urinate.
NOTE: Crystals may form in mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection) injection) solutions especially if the solutions are chilled. To dissolve crystals in the flexible container, warm the unit to 70°C with agitation. Heat solution by using a dry-heat cabinet with overwrap intact.
When infusing 20% or 25% mannitol (mannitol (mannitol injection) injection) concentrations, the administration set should include a filter. Exposure of pharmaceutical products to heat should be minimized.