An explosive eruption includes Aa lava, the volcano has a thick cap which traps all the gasses, this builds pressure. The lava is high in Silica and has lots of water vapor. A … non explosive volcano includes, Pahoehoe lava, has a thin cap which lets pressure go easier, and is low in Silica and water vapor. Amount of dissolved gasses in a liquid, the silica content, and the viscosity of the magma. Edit. Share to: 1  The Geological Significance and History of Tuff Rock Tuff is an igneous rock made from volcanoes. 2  When volcanoes erupt, they produce ash and debris that turns into solid matter upon cooling and aging.
In the same way, each volcano and its eruptions are unique. However, we tend to see two major kinds of eruptions. We talked about eruption to mean both a violent explosion or a sort of silent spreading. These are the two types of volcanic eruptions that we see–explosive and non-explosive eruptions. Non-explosive Eruptions [edit]. A second type of volcanic eruption is a non-explosive or effusive eruption (Figure 8.11). Because the composition of magma is different in different volcanoes, the properties of the lava are different.
Best Answer: pressure and magma If there is lots of pressure in the volcano there will be a big explosion. Vice Versa If the magma has a high solidity (more rocks in it) the explosivenes will increase due to gas bubbles formed in the magma. Runny (more liquid in it) lava will not have an explosion but just flow. Source(s): EŧIEииE · 7 years ago.
Image courtesy of USGS. There are two predominant types of volcanic eruptions: Effusive eruptions – magma rises through the surface and flows out of the volcano as a viscous liquid called lava. Explosive eruptions – magma is torn apart as it rises and reaches the surface in pieces known as pyroclasts. 
Volcanic eruptions categorized on the Volcanic Explosive Index (VEI) are based on the amount of matter ejected during an eruption. Amount of dissolved gasses in a liquid, the silica content, and the viscosity of the magma. Edit. Share to: 1  The Geological Significance and History of Tuff Rock Tuff is an igneous rock made from volcanoes. 2  When volcanoes erupt, they produce ash and debris that turns into solid matter upon cooling and aging.
The factors that affect the force of a volcanic eruption are How fast or slow the magma movesThe temperatureThe amount of dissolved gasThe amount of pressure. Amount of dissolved gasses in a liquid, the silica content, and the viscosity of the magma. Edit. Share to: 1  The Geological Significance and History of Tuff Rock Tuff is an igneous rock made from volcanoes. 2  When volcanoes erupt, they produce ash and debris that turns into solid matter upon cooling and aging.
The most common type of volcanic eruption occurs when magma (the term for lava when it is below the Earth's surface) is released from a volcanic vent. Eruptions can be effusive, where lava flows like a thick, sticky liquid, or explosive, where fragmented lava explodes out of a vent. In explosive eruptions, the fragmented rock may be accompanied by ash and gases; in effusive eruptions, degassing is common but ash is usually not.