In verse 5, Jesus proceeds to say, Unless one is born of water and the Spirit, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. Nicodemus, who was a Pharisee, believed like the other Jews that because he was born a Jew and kept God s ordinances that he should automatically enter into the kingdom of God. You must be born again that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.. The new birth from above is a second birth which gives us eternal life. V.5 The new birth is invisible, he likens it to the wind. It is not from the water beneath (the flesh) but of the Spirit (literally, in the Greek, from above). He is contrasting the natural (flesh) to the spiritual (Spirit). What does Jesus mean we must be Born of water and of Spirit. Lets read the whole conversation to get the teaching Jesus gave Nicodemus. John 3:1-13: There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews
So, any interpretation which comes to the conclusion that baptism, or any other act, is necessary for salvation, is a faulty interpretation. Jesus answered, 'Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. Christians have always understood this to mean Baptism. At a valid Baptism, the words, I Baptise you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, are spoken, as the water is poured over the head of the person. Baptism can also be by immersion into water. Both are valid.
V erily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. 
John 3:5 (NKJV) Jesus answered, “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. John 3:5 (NKJV). Jesus answered, “Most assuredly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. If Water in John 3:5 is referring to amniotic fluid then one would have to be born natural to be saved. Hence aborted babies, miscarried children would be lost. Notice the text unless one is born of water AND the spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom.
“Born of water and Spirit” occurs as a reiteration of John 3:3’s phrase “born again”. The word, “again” possess two meanings. Though Nicodemus translates the word as “a second time,” the word also means “from above.” It is this later interpretation, which Jesus seems to intend. In other words, we are not to take this is first you must be born of water and then of spirit; rather, unless one is born of water and spirit in v5 is parallel to unless one is born again in v3.
Except a man be born... and here's how it has to happen...of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter into the Kingdom of God.. Now there's a very important verse...a verse that's been interpreted all kinds of ways. Let me share with you what I believe the Spirit of God means here in the words of Christ. Christians have always understood this to mean Baptism. At a valid Baptism, the words, I Baptise you in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, are spoken, as the water is poured over the head of the person. Baptism can also be by immersion into water. Both are valid.
Jesus' words to Nicodemus found in John 3:5 are not only startling, but strongly enforced. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. Jesus described this experience as being born of water and the Spirit. The beautiful analogy of the new birth need not be encumbered with strained interpretations, such as seeing in the water a reference to a phenomenon of the physical process of birth. The water referred to the rite of baptism.
Further, the phrase born of water and the Spirit parallels the phrase “born again” in verse 3; thus, only one birth is in view. Others see in the phrase born of water a reference to baptism, either that of John the Baptist, or Christian baptism. But Nicodemus would not have understood Christian baptism (which did not yet exist) nor misunderstood John the Baptist’s baptism. He cannot enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born, can he?” Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.
Nicodemus said to Him, “How can a man be born when he is old? He cannot enter a second time into his mother’s womb and be born, can he?” Jesus answered, “Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.