It was built as a freestanding bell tower for the cathedral in Pisa. On the side where the tower is lower because of the lean it stands at 187.27 feet. On the high side of the tower it stands at 186 feet. The tower weighs about 14,500 tons. It is thought that the restoration will keep the Leaning Tower of Pisa stable for at 300 years more. In 2008 engineers stated that the Tower had stopped moving. This is the first time in its history that it has not been slowly leaning further to one side.
It is situated behind the Cathedral and is the third oldest structure in Pisa's Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo) after the Cathedral and the Baptistery. The tower's tilt began during construction, caused by an inadequate foundation on ground too soft on one side to properly support the structure's weight. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Leaning Tower of Pisa (Italian: Torre pendente di Pisa) or simply the Tower of Pisa (Torre di Pisa) is the campanile, or freestanding bell tower, of the cathedral of the Italian city of Pisa, known worldwide for its unintended tilt.
As one of the most recognizable buildings in Europe, the Leaning Tower of Pisa attracts visitors from across the globe. It is actually the freestanding, Romanesque campanile (bell tower) of the majestic Duomo in Piazza dei Miracoli. The Leaning Tower of Pisa makes this walled square the most photographed square in Pisa, but its other grand structures are also worth capturing.
No Lone Leaner. The tower of Pisa may be the most famous leaning structure, but it's by no means unique. Pisa's soft soil has caused problems for other towers, including the nearby Campanile (or bell tower) of San Nicola and the Campanile of San Michele degli Scalzi. 
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a freestanding bell tower located in the city of Pisa in Italy. Like its name suggest, it actually does lean to one side. The tower started to lean during construction because the foundation was built on soft ground that had difficulty supporting the weight. It is thought that the restoration will keep the Leaning Tower of Pisa stable for at 300 years more. In 2008 engineers stated that the Tower had stopped moving. This is the first time in its history that it has not been slowly leaning further
The height of the tower is 55.86 metres (183.27 feet) from the ground on the low side and 56.67 metres (185.93 feet) on the high side. The width of the walls at the base is 2.44 m (8 ft 0.06 in). Its weight is estimated at 14,500 metric tons (16,000 short tons). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Leaning Tower of Pisa (Italian: Torre pendente di Pisa) or simply the Tower of Pisa (Torre di Pisa) is the campanile, or freestanding bell tower, of the cathedral of the Italian city of Pisa, known worldwide for its unintended tilt.
Tower of Pisa leans sideways because it was built on unstable soil. In 1173 construction started on the 180-foot bell tower, which is located in Pisa, a small town in the Italian province of Tuscany. The building began to lean as soon as the first three floors were completed. The Leaning Tower of Pisa is leaning because when they first built it the floor wasn't stable and the bottom of the building collapsed. Hope this answered your question:). 21 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Dodi Tov. 275,914 Contributions. Old ladies are dangerous. Always remember that.
The Tower of Pisa is world famous for its prominent tilt to one side. The tower's foundations were built on soft subsoil which had difficulty supporting the tower's weight (14,500 ton). When the second storey was started the lean became noticeable and only got worse as construction continued. The tower is 8 stories high, 55.86 m (183.27 ft) on the low side and 56.67 m (185.93 ft) on the high side. Construction of the Tower of Pisa started in the year 1173 and was completed in 1372. Construction stopped and restarted twice over those 199 years due to wars.
The tower began to sink after construction had progressed to the third floor in 1178. This was due to a mere three-meter foundation, set in weak, unstable subsoil, a de … sign that was flawed from the beginning.       Tower of Pisa leans sideways because it was built on unstable soil. In 1173 construction started on the 180-foot bell tower, which is located in Pisa, a small town in the Italian province of Tuscany. The Leaning Tower of Pisa is leaning because when they first built it the floor wasn't stable and the bottom of the building collapsed. Hope this answered your question:). 21 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Dodi Tov. 275,914 Contributions. Old ladies are dangerous. Always remember that.