1. It means queen in the dothraki language. Usually the wrong-given name to Daenerys Targaryen, character from A song of ice and fire books (Game of Thrones). 2. Badass sexy girl who has dragons and says dracarys to her enemies and burns them all. She gets the things she wants with fire and blood
Hello, Guest. Daenerys is yet another girls' name invented by Game of Thrones author George R. R. Martin that is beginning to gain some traction in real life. Daenerys was used for 67 baby girls in 2013 while one of the character's titles, Khaleesi, was given to 241 baby girls. And the name Arya, also from the hyper-popular series, is one of the fastest growing girls' names in the country. 
Khaleesi is an invented name introduced to the world by inventive and prolific author George R. R. Martin for his wildly popular Game of Thrones series -- it's Dothraki for queen and is one of the titles of the character Daenerys. 
In fact, the name comes from the Dothraki language. Except it's not a name in that language, but a common word meaning queen.. And Dothraki isn't a natural language, but a handful of words created by Game of Thrones author George R. R. Martin for his imagined Dothraki people. To me the name Khaleesi feels a little different from Queen because it's also a form of address -- like 'Your Highness'. This distinction means that Khaleesi, while not a name, was used on the tv series in a name-like way.
Perhaps most interesting is that the name Khaleesi has no meaning in English, and comes from the Dothraki language, completely invented by George R. R. Martin, author of the book series. But Khaleesi is not the only character from pop culture that has had this great of an influence over American baby-naming patterns. According to Laura Wattenberg, “The Baby Name Wizard” blogger, 146 American girls were named Khaleesi last year after HBO’s Game of Thrones title. According to Wattenberg, the recent skyrocketing of the baby name marked “a 450% jump in the name’s usage from 2011, and before that year it was completely unknown.”.
The name Khaleesi is of Dothraki origin, and it means wife of khal or ruler (from the fantasy novel series A Song of Ice and Fire) . It's a name commonly given to girls. The highest recorded use of the name Khaleesi was in 2014 with a total of 368 babies. According to the 2012 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Khaleesi is not a popular baby girl's name in Indiana. Imagine that, only 7 babies in Indiana have the same name as you in 2012. Across the entire United States a total of only 146 babies also bear the same first name during the same year
About the name Khaleesi. The meaning of the name Khaleesi: Created Name. The origin of the name Khaleesi: American. Notes: In George R.R. Martin's Song of Ice and Fire novels and Game of Thrones TV series, the title Khaleesi refers to the wife of the Khal, a warlord of the Dothraki tribe. Khaleesi Stats
Meanings and history of the name Khaleesi: | Edit. This name is taken from a title, roughly equivalent to queen, from the fictional Dothraki language in the fantasy epic A Song of Ice and Fire (and the tv version Game of Thrones). The name Kalesi (pronounced the same) is also a popular Fijian girls' name. For more background, see this Baby Name Wizard blog post on the name Khaleesi: http://www.babynamewizard.com/archives/2013/5/khaleesi-the-non-name-from-a-non-language. Kali, Leesi.