In our study, intraperitoneal and retroperitoneal fat make up only a small proportion of the total body fat mass (3.2 and 3.8%, respectively), which is similar to that reported in other populations of similar obesity. No correlation was found between retroperitoneal fat mass and total fat mass. Apart from a correlation between intraperitoneal fat mass and waist circumference, there was no significant correlation between either intraperitoneal fat mass or retroperitoneal fat mass and any other anthropometric measurements.
Retroperitoneal liposarcoma is a sub type of liposarcoma, a malignant tumour of mesenchymal origin that may arise in any fat-containing region of the body. It is one of the most common primary retroperitoneal neoplasms 2. There are five histological types: 1  well-differentiated: ~54%, low grade. 2  lipoma-like. 3  inflammatory. 
At CT, myelolipoma is depicted as a heterogeneous mass with areas of fat and enhancing soft tissue (Fig 9). The attenuation value of fat in myelolipoma is higher than that of normal retroperitoneal fat because of the mixed hematopoietic tissue. Extraadrenal lesions contain less fat than adrenal lesions (50% vs 90%). 
Retroperitoneal Fat (n.). 1. (MeSH) Fatty tissue inside the ABDOMINAL CAVITY, including visceral fat and retroperitoneal fat. It is the most metabolically active fat in the body and easily accessible for LIPOLYSIS. Increased visceral fat is associated with metabolic complications of OBESITY. analogical dictionary. Adipose Tissue, White, White Adipose Tissue, White Fat [Hyper.]. Abdominal Adipose Tissue, Abdominal Fat, Adipose Tissue, Abdominal, Fat, Abdominal [Hyper.]. Retroperitoneal Fat (n.) [MeSH] ↕.
In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots. Visceral fat or abdominal fat (also known as organ fat or intra-abdominal fat) is located inside the abdominal cavity, packed between the organs (stomach, liver, intestines, kidneys, etc.). Visceral fat is different from subcutaneous fat underneath the skin, and intramuscular fat interspersed in skeletal muscles.
Some of these fat-containing lesions, such as liposarcoma and retroperitoneal teratoma, have to be resected, although resection can be deferred for others, such as adrenal adenoma, myelolipoma, angiomyolipoma, ovarian teratoma, and lipoma, until the lesions become large or symptomatic. There are a variety of fat-containing lesions that can arise in the intraperitoneal cavity and retroperitoneal space.
Fuelled by the obesity epidemic, there is considerable interest in the developmental origins of white adipose tissue (WAT) and the stem and progenitor cells from which it arises. Whereas increased visceral fat mass is associated with metabolic dysfunction, increased subcutaneous WAT is protective. 
The retroperitoneal space (retroperitoneum) is the anatomical space (sometimes a potential space) in the abdominal cavity behind (retro) the peritoneum. It has no specific delineating anatomical structures. Organs are retroperitoneal if they have peritoneum on their anterior side only. Structures that are not suspended by mesentery in the abdominal cavity and that lie between the parietal peritoneum and abdominal wall are classified as retroperitoneal.
There are a variety of fat-containing lesions that can arise in the intraperitoneal cavity and retroperitoneal space (Table 1). Many authors use the organ of origin, the location of the fat-containing lesions or their malignancy to classify these lesions. There are a variety of fat-containing lesions that can arise in the intraperitoneal cavity and retroperitoneal space.