Making the world better, one answer at a time. The adaptations of a seahorse is it has camouflage to hide from predators and to sneak up on its prey. It also has a long prehensile tail that allows it to wrap its tail around and hold on to the seaweed. The seahorse has adapted in the shallow waters with seaweed and coral to hang onto when stormy weather arrives. A seahorse is a vertebrate, a fish. It has some unusual characteristics like when it swims it swims in an upright position and the male has the babies instead of the female! …    See related links below for more information.
Gills are the respiratory organ found in seahorses. Gills extract dissolved oxygen from the water, and then excrete carbon dioxide back into the water. Gills are adaptations for the seahorse because create more surface area. More surface area means more oxygen and less waste. These plates are an adaption ,allowing protection for the seahorse against predators. Camouflage: Seahorses also have the ability to change colors. They can change colors for multiple reasons, such as during their court dance with a mate or possibly to hide from a predator.
Animal Species:Pygmy Seahorse, Hippocampus bargibanti Whitley, 1970. As its name implies, the Pygmy Seahorse is a tiny fish. It lives on gorgonians (sea fans) of the genus Muricella. Erik Schloegl © Schlögl Erik. schloegl schlögl The Pygmy Seahorse has a short snout, rounded knob-like coronet and irregular bulbous tubercles on the body. It has a rounded spine above each eye and on each cheek. Two colour morphs are recorded for this species, one is pale grey or purple with pink or red tubercles, the second is yellow with orange tubercles.
Pygmy Seahorses. ﻿ ﻿hehegffwrswfden ﻿ Analysis of the structural and behavioural adaptations to enhance their survival Structural:Over the Pygmy Seahorses first five days on the Gorgonian Coral, they change to perfectly match the colour and surface texture of the coral they live on. 
The adaptations of a seahorse is it has camouflage to hide from  predators and to sneak up on its prey. It also has a long  prehensile tail that allows it to wrap its tail a … round and hold on  to the seaweed. Each species has a distinct number of rings. Seahorses swim upright, another characteristic that is not shared by their close pipefish relatives, who swim horizontally. Razorfish are the only other fish that swim vertically like a seahorse. Unusual among fish, seahorses have a flexible, well-defined neck.
What is a Seahorse. Seahorses are fish. They live in water, breath through gills and have a swim bladder. However they do not have caudal fins and have a long snake-like tail. They also have a neck and a snout that points down. Both British Seahorses can be found from the Shetland Isles down the west coast of the UK (and all around Ireland) and along the south coast of England; we also have sightings of Seahorses on the east coast and a few years ago they were found in the North Sea.
Birds, fish, and whales all migrate as a behavioral adaptation. Some of these animals migrate for food or climate control. Others migrate to escape the predators that seek their natural habitats. Seahorses have found a different behavioral adaptation. They use their tails to grab onto seaweed. Many of their natural predators cannot swim well in deep, tangled webs of seaweed. The seahorse is then protected by this grasping behavior. 
Adaptation. Seahorses are amazing creatures and are well suited for their environment. They have numerous body parts which give them the ability to live in the ocean, hide from prey, as well as other vital parts that give them the chance to survive in the vast ocean. Pectoral Fin: 1. These plates are an adaption ,allowing protection for the seahorse against predators. Camouflage: Seahorses also have the ability to change colors. They can change colors for multiple reasons, such as during their court dance with a mate or possibly to hide from a predator.