Often a change in your diet is the reason for foul-smelling stools; malabsorption is another common cause. Malabsorption occurs when your body is unable to absorb the proper amount of nutrients from the food you eat. Taking some over-the-counter multivitamins may also cause foul-smelling stools if you’re allergic to the supplements’ ingredients. After a course of antibiotics you may experience foul smelling stools until your normal bacterial flora is restored.
Although in many cases, foul-smelling stools are related to the foods you eat, and the bacteria flora resident in your colon they can also indicate a serious health problem. Diarrhea, bloating, or gas (flatulence) may accompany foul-smelling stools. Taking some over-the-counter multivitamins may also cause foul-smelling stools if you’re allergic to the supplements’ ingredients. After a course of antibiotics you may experience foul smelling stools until your normal bacterial flora is restored.
Infections that affect the intestines may also cause foul-smelling stools. One infection called gastroenteritis occurs after ingesting food that has been contaminated with E. coli and Salmonella, as well as certain other viruses, bacteria, or parasites. Taking some over-the-counter multivitamins may also cause foul-smelling stools if you’re allergic to the supplements’ ingredients. After a course of antibiotics you may experience foul smelling stools until your normal bacterial flora is restored.
Foul-Smelling Stool. Feces normally have an unpleasant smell, but it is a smell that is common and unremarkable. Foul-smelling stools have an unusually strong, putrid smell. Taking some over-the-counter multivitamins may also cause foul-smelling stools if you’re allergic to the supplements’ ingredients. After a course of antibiotics you may experience foul smelling stools until your normal bacterial flora is restored.
Serious or life-threatening causes of stool odor. In some cases, foul-smelling stools may be a symptom of a serious or life-threatening condition that should be immediately evaluated in an emergency setting. These include: Abdominal abscess. Intestinal obstruction. 
Stool odor is the smell associated with stools, or bowel movements. Stools normally have an unpleasant odor. Stools are formed in the large intestine (colon), which is part of the digestive system. Find a Gastroenterologist Near You. Changes in stool odor can be caused by the foods you eat. Even extremely foul-smelling stools can be due to changes in your diet. However, abnormally foul-smelling stools may also be a sign of a disease, disorder or condition. Examples include celiac disease, Crohn’s disease, cystic fibrosis, and intestinal infections
A common symptom of malabsorption is foul-smelling diarrhea. If you have inflammatory bowel disease, also known as IBD, eating certain foods will cause your intestines to become inflamed. People with IBD often complain of foul-smelling diarrhea or constipation. Symptoms that may be associated with foul-smelling stools include: 1  runny stool (diarrhea). 2  soft stool. 3  frequent bowel movements. 4  abdominal pain. 5  nausea. 6  vomiting. 7  flatulence.
Foul-smelling stools have an unusually strong, putrid smell. Although in many cases, foul-smelling stools are related to the foods you eat, and the bacteria flora resident in your colon they can also indicate a serious health problem. Diarrhea, bloating, or gas (flatulence) may accompany foul-smelling stools. Symptoms that may be associated with foul-smelling stools include: 1  runny stool (diarrhea). 2  soft stool. 3  frequent bowel movements. 4  abdominal pain. 5  nausea. 6  vomiting. 7  flatulence.
Pancrelipase is used to improve digestion of foods and prevent frequent, fatty, foul-smelling bowel movements in ... to function normally) such as cystic fibrosis (an inborn disease that causes problems with ... diarrhea that is bloody or does not go away; black, tarry stools; stomach pain ... Passage of gas, stool or pus from your vagina; A foul-smelling vaginal discharge; Recurrent vaginal or urinary tract infections; Irritation or pain in the vulva ... Are there other possible causes for my symptoms ...