10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Natto is an ancient Japanese food made from soybeans. It is soaked and fermented, which makes the soybeans quite sticky, and produces a springy or web effect between each bean. 
Takao Onozoto/Aflo/Getty Images. Natto is a traditional Japanese food of fermented soy beans. Natto soy beans are steam cooked and then fermented with a healthy bacteria known as Bacillus subtilis. The fermentation process yields a food that is high in nutrition and protein. At first glance, natto appears to be light to dark brown in color, with beans that are quite small
NATTOKINASE Overview Information. Nattokinase is an enzyme (a protein that speeds up biochemical reactions) that is extracted from a popular Japanese food called natto. Natto is boiled soybeans that have been fermented with a bacterium called Bacillus natto. 
About Natto. * click here for information on the shelf life of NATTO. Natto is fermented soybeans. Natto has long been recognized as one of Japan's most unique traditional health foods. Highly nutritious and rich in protein, it is often eaten with cooked rice. 
Natto Health Benefits. Nattokinase helps to address one of the most overlooked problems in the development of heart disease and high blood pressure: hyperviscosity. In plain words, that means thick, sick, sticky and inflamed blood that moves slowly through the circulatory system. 
Here's what you need to know about this little-known nutrient and even lesser-known food source. By Monica Reinagel | April 15, 2015. I was doing some internet research on foods that promote bone growth and came across a food called natto, which is supposed to be a good source of vitamin K2. 
Discover How the Legendary Benefits of the Japanese Food Natto Make for a Healthy Heart and Strong Bones! Get Your FREE REPORT: Enter your email address to get your FREE Report: THE MIRACLE SUPER FOOD THAT BUILDS YOUR BONES BETTER THAN CALCIUM AND PREVENTS HEART DISEASE BETTER THAN LIPITOR. 
The traditional Japanese food Natto has been used safely for over 1000 years. The potent fibrinolytic enzyme nattokinase appears to be safe based upon the long-term traditional use of this food. Nattokinase is a potent fibrinolytic enzyme extracted and highly purified from a traditional Japanese food called Natto. Natto is a fermented cheese-like food that has been used in Japan for over 1000 years for its popular taste and as a folk remedy for heart and vascular diseases