If you consider naming your baby Jaycee we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jaycee and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Jaycee. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Jaycee, spread the love and share this with your friends. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jaycee and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Here are pictures of people with the name Jaycee. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Jaycee /jay-cee/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Jaycee) is of American origin. Jaycee is an alternate form of Jacey (American). Compare surname Jaymes. Kreatif forms: Jecee, Jucee. Jaycee is a rare first name for females. Jaycee is an equally rare last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Jaycee for girls. Jaycee was first listed in 1998 and reached its apex rank of #516 in the U.S. in 2011, and is at #618 presently.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. Jaycee is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jay-cee. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 618 in baby name popularity for girls with 461 occurrences. It ranked 2615 in popular baby names for boys with 46 occurrences.
Meaning of Jaycee. English name. In English, the name Jaycee means-phonetic name based on initials.The name Jaycee originated as an English name. The name Jaycee is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-phonetic name based on initials. Origin-England. 
English Meaning: The name Jaycee is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jaycee is: Phonetic name based on initials. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Jaycee. Jaycee is a modern American coinage and therefore a name with no etymological background. It was mainly developed through the combination of syllables, in this case “Jay” + “Cee” which produces a very casual and informal girl’s name. Mainly because “J.C.” is a common nickname for boys who may be called James Cameron or John Conner, etc. For girls, however, Jaycee is mainly distinct to the United States in terms of usage. It’s a relaxed and no-frills simple name choice.
The meaning of Jaycee is “Healer”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jaycee and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jaycee and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds