The next step is to put the flank steak on the grill. It’s recommended that you then grill the steak for approximately 10 minutes over coals that are medium-hot. While a grilling time of 10 minutes will give you a medium-rare steak, you may allow it to grill for a bit longer until the beef reaches the desired doneness. However long you decide to grill your flank steak, remember to turn it over as soon as the grilling time is halfway done. 
We cook a New York 1 inch thick steak on a charcoal grill for 20 minutes. We only flip once at about 15 minutes. That gives you a medium well steak. It will vary depending on the thickness of the steak and the temperature of your grill or frying pan. Here's how restaurant chefs decide sear the steak lightly on both sides to brown. A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out
Slight differences in grill temperature, meat thickness, and a slew of other other variables can cause a significant difference the time needed from one grilling session to another. So, just because 6 minutes 45 seconds on the dot gave you a medium rare rib eye steak on time doesn't necessarily mean it will again... That said, this table gives you estimates of you how long to grill a steak. Our recommendation is to used as a guideline to know when to start using your thermometer to check your steak for final doneness.
Let the steak rest for about 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness. This allows the juices to move back into the meat. Resting should be done in a place that is about room temperature and with only a loose covering over it. If you doubt me, try cutting a steak in half right off the grill. 
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minutes
The time will vary depending on the cooking method and the thickness of the steak. A normal steak cut is about 3/4 of an inch thick and on average, the cooking temp on a grill … is 300-350of. With these, an average of about 8 minutes per side will leave a bit of red in the center. A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out
Once the grill has heated up you can place the steak on it. Cook the steak for four minutes and then flip it over. Cook the back side for four minutes and then check the steak's internal temperature with a meat thermometer. It should read between 125 and 135 degrees Fahrenheit. A well done steak is one that has no red or pink anywhere in it. You must cook the steak a little longer than medium in order to achieve this. Get your grill hot and then place your steak on it. Cook the steak for 12 minutes and then flip it over. Time another 12 minutes and then check the internal temperature of the steak