FibroScan® is a new medical device in the United States-approved by the FDA on April 5th 2013 - that provides a painless and reliable alternative to liver biopsy. Our office is the first in Los Angeles to offer this examination to patients with the FibroScan® 502 device. In this way, valuable time can be lost. The Fibroscan test of the liver is now routinely used in Europe and elsewhere and has offered a great opportunity to both replace biopsy but also to track responses to treatment in a way that biopsy could not be used.
Examination with FibroScan®, also called transient elastography, is a technique used to assess liver stiffness (measured in kPa correlated to fibrosis) without invasive investigation. 
Fibroscan® uses elastography, which is a technique similar to ultrasound, that measures the stiffness of your liver. It is a non-invasive, painless alternative to liver biopsy and is used by our multi-disciplinary team at the Princess Grace Hospital for looking at liver damage from conditions such as Hepatitis C. 
FibroScan® is principally used to estimate the degree of liver scarring present (ie. stage of liver disease). This is very useful in the assessment of patients with chronic liver disease, including chronic hepatitis C, chronic hepatitis B, chronic alcohol abuse and fatty liver. The use of non-invasive tests to stage the severity of liver disease (ie. scarring) is now well established in the management of patients with chronic liver disease. This is because assessment of liver scarring provides prognostic information and assists in establishing treatment priorities.
A fibroscan™ is non-invasive. It uses a combination of an elastic wave and ultrasound technology to assess the health of your liver. The test itself takes approximately 5-10 min and is not painful. Some gel is applied between your ribs and a small probe is placed on your skin. A fibroscan™ is a test your doctor can do to determine how much scar tissue (fibrosis) is in your liver. For some patients it can replace a liver biopsy. A fibroscan allows for more liver tissue to be examined than a liver biopsy, however A fibroscan™ cannot diagnose the cause of your liver disease
Liver stiffness (FibroScan). The stage of liver disease can be estimated by measuring liver stiffness using a FibroScan. This scan is painless, takes less than ten minutes and produces immediate results. FibroScan has dramatically reduced the need for having a liver biopsy. FibroScan measures how quickly vibration waves pass through the liver. 
FibroScan® is a non-invasive device that assesses the ‘hardness’ (or stiffness) of the liver via the technique of transient elastography. Liver hardness is evaluated by measuring the velocity of a vibration wave (also called a ‘shear wave’) generated on the skin. The use of non-invasive tests to stage the severity of liver disease (ie. scarring) is now well established in the management of patients with chronic liver disease. This is because assessment of liver scarring provides prognostic information and assists in establishing treatment priorities.
FibroScan® Scoring Card-Understanding The Results. FibroScan®. FibroScan®, sometimes called transient elastometry (TE) is a FDA approved non-invasive test to measure liver inflammation and fibrosis, (arguably) comparable to a liver biopsy, particularly in the higher end of the Metavir scale (Stages 3 and 4). Located on the bottom of the Fibroscan scoring card is Fibroscan results in (kPa) measurements 0-75, more accurately Fibroscan results range from 2.5 kPa to 75 kPa. Between 90–95% of healthy people without liver disease will have a liver scarring measurement less then 7.0 kPa (median is 5.3 kPa).
A. A Fibroscan is a non invasive imaging study that evaluates the degree of liver stiffness, or scaring, known as fibrosis. 