2 verified credentials. 485 Halibut St., Port St. Lucie, FL 34953. As Florida's premier provider of commercial and residential roofing services, Sunshine Roofing Company prides itself on getting the job done quickly, accurately and with top-notch customer service. In general terms, re-roofing projects may range from $250 per square to $1200 per square. A square in roofing equals 100 square feet. An average re-roofing project may cost around $350 per square. So, if you had a 20 square roof (2000 square feet of roof) and the total project cost $350 per square, you're reroof would cost $7000 (20 square X $350). Again, all the factors above can cause this number to go up or down significantly
Packard Roofing & Waterproofing. With more than 40 years of trusted service, Packard Roofing & Waterproofing is the Treasure Coasts expert in commercial roofing and residential roofing. Packard Roofing & Waterproofing offers beautiful, durable roof replacement, roof repair, and new roof construction in the Florida Treasure Coast. 
2 verified credentials. 485 Halibut St., Port St. Lucie, FL 34953. As one of Florida's top providers of commercial and residential roofing services, Sunshine Roofing prides itself on getting the job done fast, accurately and with superior customer service. Approximate cost to fix a damaged shingle roof : Let’s say a 25 square foot (5 ft. by 5 ft.) section of your shingle roofing was damaged during a thunderstorm. You would typically expect to pay $200 to $400 to repair the damaged area, depending upon the type of shingles used and the complexity of the job.
If you need a reliable contractor for emergency roofing services in Port St Lucie, FL, you've come to the right place. Hometown gathers reviews and credentials on roof repair contractors that can evaluate and repair your damaged or leaking roof quickly, preventing future damage. Approximate cost to fix a damaged shingle roof : Let’s say a 25 square foot (5 ft. by 5 ft.) section of your shingle roofing was damaged during a thunderstorm. You would typically expect to pay $200 to $400 to repair the damaged area, depending upon the type of shingles used and the complexity of the job.
Highest Price Paid. $880.69. Your estimated roof repair cost in Port St. Lucie: $471.19. This cost is based on Saint Lucie County labor costs and includes cost of materials for a mid range shingle roof, removal of damaged are of current roof, installation and initial warranty. First use our Ballpark estimator to compare average roof repair costs in Port St. Lucie so you can get a feel for the scope of the project. Next you simply fill out the form to begin comparing pricing so you can schedule a time for repairs to be made.
Serving Port Saint Lucie. Joe Ward Roofing has been in business over 30 years in the South Florida market.We are a family owned business and have been in the Jupiter area for many years. ... Click Here To Visit Our Website. (561) 741-8919 Mention You Found Us On GAF.com! GAF factory-certified Port Saint Lucie roofing contractors serving your area have been rated an average of 4.53 out of 5 stars based on 36 reviews.
Excellent company..searched for a roofer for over 6 months and I'm glad I found this one..Great customer relations, dealt with the owner of the company, Jeff...I had a specialized roof job and Jeff had a great price and finished the job quickly and cleaned up! Highly Recommend St. Lucie Roofing....A+++. 
Whatever type of roof you need fixed, the experts at Cork'd can help you today. First use our Ballpark estimator to compare average roof repair costs in Port St. Lucie so you can get a feel for the scope of the project. Next you simply fill out the form to begin comparing pricing so you can schedule a time for repairs to be made.
Top Roofers in Port St Lucie, FL. Whether you have a roof replacement or repair project, Hometown makes it easy to find the top roofing contractors in Port St Lucie, FL and nearby places. We publish trusted roofing reviews from real customers, verified credentials, and roofing costs from projects near you. In general terms, re-roofing projects may range from $250 per square to $1200 per square. A square in roofing equals 100 square feet. An average re-roofing project may cost around $350 per square. So, if you had a 20 square roof (2000 square feet of roof) and the total project cost $350 per square, you're reroof would cost $7000 (20 square X $350). Again, all the factors above can cause this number to go up or down significantly