Those interested in counseling psychology careers will usually start by earning a four year Bachelor's degree in psychology. In order to start their careers, however, advanced degrees are usually necessary. A number of universities offer Master's and Doctoral degrees in counseling psychology. The curriculum requirements to become a counseling psychologist are typically very similar from one university to the next. In addition to learning the fundamentals of psychology and research methods, future counseling psychologists will also often learn about different therapy and counseling techniques. The number of patients that a counseling psychologist works with at one time can also vary. Some only work with their patients on a one-on-one situation, while others may work with small groups of people. The majority of counseling psychologists interact with their patients each and every day.
Licensure. A key part of becoming a counseling psychologist is becoming licensed to practice in the state where you want to work. To become a licensed counseling psychologist, you'll need to earn your doctoral degree, take part in an internship and earn professional experience. Education Requirements. If you want to become a counseling psychologist, in most cases, you'll need to earn a doctoral degree. This is especially important for those who want to open a private practice that is separate from a hospital or treatment facility.
Counseling psychologists are a rapidly growing portion of the psychological and counseling communities. These individuals, which are typically counselors with a master's degree or psychologists with a doctorate degree, provide guidance, therapy and advice for clients who have troubling, but often short term, needs. Like any profession which is considered a part of the medical field, becoming a counseling psychologist is not easy. However, for those who do put in the time and the effort needed, it can be a rewarding experience.
Step One: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. Earning a bachelor's degree is the first step for prospective counseling psychologists. Students can earn a degree in a related field, such as education or psychology or in an unrelated liberal arts field. 
Counseling psychology is a type of applied psychology that can be used to help people gain control of their feelings. This type of psychology focuses on treating individuals with a variety of different emotional, behavioral, and social problems or disorders. The number of patients that a counseling psychologist works with at one time can also vary. Some only work with their patients on a one-on-one situation, while others may work with small groups of people. The majority of counseling psychologists interact with their patients each and every day.
Education. Generally speaking, counseling psychologists need a doctoral degree in order to practice. There are two ways to get there: with a Ph.D. in counseling psychology, or with a Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. The Ph.D. is a degree based on research.
College students aspiring to become counseling psychologists may not find a lot of courses available at the undergraduate level. If you are in this position, your can enroll in classes having to do with clinical and health psychology, communication, and education. Generally speaking, counseling psychologists need a doctoral degree in order to practice. There are two ways to get there: with a Ph.D. in counseling psychology, or with a Doctor of Psychology (Psy.D.) degree. The Ph.D. is a degree based on research.
The Path to Becoming a Psychologist. First, you will need a bachelor's degree (4 to 5 years), which teaches the fundamentals of psychology. After that, you will need a master's degree (2 to 3 years), which can qualify you to practice in the field as a case manager, employment specialist, or social worker. Then, most state licensing boards require a doctorate (4 to 7 years). The type of doctoral degree you choose––either a Doctor of Psychology (PsyD) or Doctor of Philosophy in Psychology (PhD)––will depend on your career goals. Many states also require post-doctoral training equivalent to about 1 year of work.
School and Career Counselor. If you don't want to become a counseling psychologist, you can become a school counselor. Your career will focus on bettering the lives of others through therapy, counseling and treatment sessions in schools, universities and vocational rehabilitation services. Education Requirements. If you want to become a counseling psychologist, in most cases, you'll need to earn a doctoral degree. This is especially important for those who want to open a private practice that is separate from a hospital or treatment facility.
To become a counseling psychologist, you will usually need at least a master degree in counseling or a doctoral degree in counseling psychology. Those with a master degree can work in many different settings and are typically supervised by a doctoral level psychologist. A Counseling psychologist helps people deal with problems that occur in everyday life from personal issues to career problems. They help their patients with social, emotional, educational, vocational, developmental, health, and organizational concerns.