Introduction: Caffeine is added to many soft drinks and energy drinks. Soft drinks differ from energy drinks in that soft drinks are regulated by the FDA and are limited in how much caffeine they can contain, whereas energy drinks are not. 
Soft drinks that contain between 40 and 60 mg of caffeine per 12-oz. serving include Diet Mountain Dew Code Red and Diet Mountain Dew, both of which contain 54 mg of caffeine per serving, according to Good Housekeeping, and Mello Yello, which contains 53 mg. Smaller Amounts. Soft drinks containing less than 40 mg of caffeine per 12-oz. serving include Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Zero, which both contain 35 mg of caffeine, according to the Mayo Clinic. Diet Pepsi and Pepsi contain between 36 and 38 mg of caffeine per serving. Pepsi Wild Cherry contains 38 mg.
A cappuccino, for example, will have around 160mg of caffeine in it.In comparison, a 250ml can of Coke contains approximately 25mg of caffeine.To see which of our drinks contain caffeine and which are caffeine-free, check out the Nutrition Comparison tool.7. It depends on how much caffeine you have. If you’re having caffeine in an energy drink for example, it provides a stimulant effect, it gives you energy. At lower levels, as it’s typically used in soft drinks, it has less of a stimulant effect and is used mainly for its taste profile.
And for more on how much caffeine is in tea, soft drinks and other products, click here. A strong, rich flavor might seem to indicate an extra dose of caffeine, but the truth is that light roasts actually pack more of a jolt than dark roasts. 
Tagged with caffeine, caffeine content, caffeine in beverages, caffeine in food, coke, coke zero, diet, diet coke, diet pepsi, dr pepper, Fanta, FDA, food, Food and Drug Administration, Fresca, ginger, pepper, pepsi, pepsi max, pop, root beer, Sierra Mist, soft drinks, sprite. Keep track of your caffeine consumption with our list of popular soft drinks. Act now to download your FREE copy of Caffeine in Food: Caffeine Content of Drinks without cost or obligation. Pepsi MAX (12 fl. oz.) – 69 mg. Zevia Mountain Zevia (12 fl. oz.) – 55 mg. Moutain Dew, Diet or regular (12 fl. oz.) – 54 mg
In contrast to typical soft drinks, some contain as much as 200 mg of caffeine per 12 fl. oz. (355 ml) serving. In addition many energy drink brands are sold in larger serving size containers (16-20 fl. oz. - 474-592 ml). 
Per 12oz can: 55mg caffeine. Mountain Dew is one of the most popular citrus soft drinks. Both diet and regular have the same amount of caffeine. In countries outside the USA – Mountain Dew has either reduced amounts of caffeine (or no caffeine at all). Per 12oz can: 69mg caffeine. Sun Drop is a brand of citrus soda drink from Cadbury-Schweppes. The level of caffeine in the Diet version came as a complete surprise – but then – even the regular version has 63mg in a 12oz can.
The U.S. Food & Drug Administration regulates how much caffeine a 12-oz. drink can contain, according to the Center for Science in the Public Interest, which is 71 mg per serving. Caffeinated soft drinks that contain this limit or nearly this limit include Vault, Jolt Cola, Mountain Dew MDX and Coke Blak. Smaller Amounts. Soft drinks containing less than 40 mg of caffeine per 12-oz. serving include Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola Zero, which both contain 35 mg of caffeine, according to the Mayo Clinic. Diet Pepsi and Pepsi contain between 36 and 38 mg of caffeine per serving. Pepsi Wild Cherry contains 38 mg.