5. Comments. With Sunday's 30-7 triumph in Minnesota, Director of AFC Football Communications Jon Zimmer indicated that New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady passed former Denver Broncos QB John Elway for sole possession of third place on the NFL 's all-time quarterback wins list. While well behind Manning and Favre in terms of career touchdowns and passing yardage, the 37-year-old Brady stands a pretty good chance to set the mark for most yardage with one team.
At the time of the 1970 NFL-AFL merger, Johnny Unitas held the record for most regular season wins as a starting quarterback with 103. He retired after the 1973 season with 118 wins, and was later surpassed by Fran Tarkenton with 124 in 1978. ♦ The 0 bronze star denotes the team for which quarterback had the most career wins. By clicking once on the Teams heading then twice on the, quarterbacks with most career wins for that team are listed together, and in order of wins for that team. Reload page to return to original configuration. Updated through early Sunday games, week 6, 2015 season. ^ = Former leader in all-time wins
NFL quarterbacks by number of career playoff wins all-time (as of February 1, 2015). The statistic shows the NFL quarterbacks who have won the most playoff games in their careers, as of February 1, 2015. Brett Favre has won a total of 13 playoff games during his career. NFL quarterbacks. The position of quarterback is probably the most important position in football
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from Most wins by a starting quarterback (NFL)). Brett Favre, the all-time leader in regular season wins by an NFL quarterback. In the National Football League the quarterback is the only position player to be credited with a record of wins and losses as a starter. ♦ The 0 bronze star denotes the team for which quarterback had the most career wins. By clicking once on the Teams heading then twice on the, quarterbacks with most career wins for that team are listed together, and in order of wins for that team. Reload page to return to original configuration. Updated through early Sunday games, week 6, 2015 season. ^ = Former leader in all-time wins
Quarterback Win/Loss Records. Listed below are the QB Win/Loss Records for active NFL players that have started at least one game at quarterback. Figures are sorted by number of wins. Regular Season and Postseason games are included in each player's totals. All Games Regular Season Postseason
Most wins by a quarterback with one team. With ''Deflategate'' behind him, Tom Brady was back to his unstoppable self, going 25 of 32 for 288 yards with four touchdowns in the Patriots' 28-21 victory Thursday night over the Steelers. 
The other quarterbacks who have won ten or more playoff-games are Joe Montana, Terry Bradshaw, John Elway, Brett Favre, Roger Staubach, Peyton Manning, Troy Aikman and Ben Roethlisberger. The statistic shows the NFL quarterbacks who have won the most playoff games in their careers, as of February 1, 2015. Brett Favre has won a total of 13 playoff games during his career.
Tom Brady holds the NFL record for most playoff wins by a quarterback with 21 and the record for most playoff games started (29). Peyton Manning holds the record for most playoff losses with 13. Joe Flacco holds the record for most post-season road wins by a quarterback, with 7. For players with 5 or more playoff appearances, Bart Starr holds the record for the highest winning percentage, (.900) and most championships, (5) - also the first two Super Bowl wins