Map dowsers use a dowsing device, usually a pendulum, over maps to locate oil, minerals, persons, water, etc. However, the prototype of a dowser is the field dowser who walks around an area using a forked stick to locate underground water. When above water, the rod points downward. A modern twist to the ancient art of dowsing has been added by several entrepreneurs who have added a plastic handle to the dowsing rod and either fake or pointless electronic circuitry. These devices are not marketed as dowsing rods, but as machines capable of detecting drugs, bombs, or a variety of other things.
Dowsing, in general terms, is the art of finding hidden things. Usually, this is accomplished with the aid of a dowsing stick, rods or a pendulum. Also known as divining, water witching, doodlebugging and other names, dowsing is an ancient practice whose origins are lost in long-forgotten history. However, it is thought to date back at least 8,000 years. In more modern times, dowsing has been used to find water for wells, mineral deposits, oil, buried treasure, archaeological artifacts-even missing people. How the dowsing technique was first discovered is unknown, yet those who practice it are unwavering in their affirmations that it does work.
Noun. 1. dowser-someone who uses a divining rod to find underground water. rhabdomancer, water witch. diviner-someone who claims to discover hidden knowledge with the aid of supernatural powers
A dowser, from an 18th-century French book about superstitions. Dowsing is a type of divination employed in attempts to locate ground water, buried metals or ores, gemstones, oil, gravesites, and many other objects and materials without the use of scientific apparatus. Mankind is (sure) that Rod divine, For to the Wealthiest (ever) they incline.. Dowsing was conducted in South Dakota in the late 19th and early 20th centuries to help homesteaders, farmers, and ranchers locate water wells on their property.
A dowsing pendulum can also be used in other ways: 1  For map dowsing, hold the pendulum still over the map and make a request (e.g. Show me where this object or person is). 2  Write several answers on a piece of paper, leaving the center blank. 3  Radiesthesia is the practice of using dowsing to make a medical diagnosis. A dowsing pendulum can also be used in other ways: 1  For map dowsing, hold the pendulum still over the map and make a request (e.g. Show me where this object or person is). 2  Move the pendulum slowly over all areas of the map until you see activity that coincides with your calibration.
Dowsing is many things to many people,and limited only by our imagination as to the ways it can be used to assist us. Raymon: Dowsing is generally understood to be a method of finding water with a forked stick. Well, that is true, but quite a limited definition. Dowsing is a means of getting information with the use of a physical instrument. Dowsers use tools or instruments such as pendulums, rods, bobbers and even forked sticks. Read more....
Dowsing appears to have arisen in the context of Renaissance magic in Germany, and it remains popular among believers in Forteana or radiesthesia. The motion of dowsing rods is nowadays generally attributed to the ideomotor effect. Mankind is (sure) that Rod divine, For to the Wealthiest (ever) they incline.. Dowsing was conducted in South Dakota in the late 19th and early 20th centuries to help homesteaders, farmers, and ranchers locate water wells on their property.
Definition of DOWSER. : divining rod; also: a person who uses it. 
Dowsing is often used for the search for hidden things like water or metals. The search for water (with especially a dowsing rod) is also called 'water witching'. Nowadays it is often used for tracking down leylines and earth rays. Dowsing is an ancient art. 
But dowsing isn’t just about finding water. Dowsing is a method of finding answers or objects as indicated by the movement of a device such as dowsing rods, hazel branches or a pendulum. The dowsing device moves to indicate a positive or negative response. When asking questions it will give yes or no answers. 