Your life will change after gastric sleeve surgery. As you consider your post-operative life and the potential benefits of weight loss, improved health, and an improved quality of life, it is also necessary to consider the diet, exercise, and behavioral changes that are essential for long-term success.
Patients can usually drive within two weeks after surgery and can return to normal activities within six to eight weeks. These times may vary, depending on the type of surgery, your general health and the type of activities you performed before surgery. To manage the effects of morbid obesity and bariatric surgery, your post-weight loss surgery care plan may involve several different types of health care professionals, who will work together to help ensure your overall health, manage your food addiction and provide a smooth transition to new day-to-day activities.
One of the most frequently asked questions regarding bariatric surgery is, “how long before I can get back to my normal routine.” We know that it is important to take time for our health, but the unfortunate truth is that we need to know exactly how long it will take to recover so that we can return to work. The three most popular bariatric surgeries include open gastric bypass, laparoscopic gastric bypass, and lap band surgery. On the graph above the “return to normal activity” bar is the time it took most people to return to work. If your job requires more physical activity you may have to wait a little longer.
Going Back to Work. The time it takes to recover and go back to work can vary based on your physical condition and the type of work that you do, must most gastric sleeve patients are able to return to work about two weeks after surgery. As you consider your post-operative life and the potential benefits of weight loss, improved health, and an improved quality of life, it is also necessary to consider the diet, exercise, and behavioral changes that are essential for long-term success.
Overall, when it comes to returning back to work after bariatric surgery, it can take anywhere from 1 to 3 weeks. If you are looking for the shortest turnaround time, lap band surgery may be a good fit for you. It is important to talk to a doctor to see which surgery is right for you and your situation. The three most popular bariatric surgeries include open gastric bypass, laparoscopic gastric bypass, and lap band surgery. On the graph above the “return to normal activity” bar is the time it took most people to return to work. If your job requires more physical activity you may have to wait a little longer.
And your recovery can be as little as a few days. For gastric bypass surgery, most patients can proceed with a regular activities after 6 weeks. If you work in a low-impact office, you may be able to go back to work after 3 weeks. If you are a construction worker, you may be able to go back after 6 weeks. 
Going Back to Work After Bariatric Surgery. Your ability to resume pre-surgery levels of activity will vary according to your physical condition, the nature of the activity and the type of weight loss surgery you had. Most patients return to work and are able to exercise within one to three weeks after their laparoscopic gastric bypass. When bariatric surgery (eg. gastric bypass) leads to dramatic weight loss, excessive amounts of skin can accumulate and hang in various areas, including face, neck, breasts, upper and lower abdomen, flanks, armpit, back, buttocks, arms, forearms, thighs, legs, and calves.
Bariatric surgery is not a quick fix. It's an ongoing journey toward weight loss through lifestyle changes. After surgery, the difference in your body makes it physically easier to adjust your eating and lifestyle habits. Fortunately, you will not have to go through the process alone. When bariatric surgery (eg. gastric bypass) leads to dramatic weight loss, excessive amounts of skin can accumulate and hang in various areas, including face, neck, breasts, upper and lower abdomen, flanks, armpit, back, buttocks, arms, forearms, thighs, legs, and calves.