Introduction. In 1794, U.S.-born inventor Eli Whitney (1765-1825) patented the cotton gin, a machine that revolutionized the production of cotton by greatly speeding up the process of removing seeds from cotton fiber. By the mid-19th century, cotton had become America’s leading export. 
The invention was granted a patent on March 14, 1794. The cotton gin was credited for increasing assets in the American economy. Cotton gin patent, March 14, 1794There is slight controversy over whether the idea of the cotton gin and its constituent elements are correctly attributed to Eli Whitney. Joseph Watkins who resided near Petersburg, Georgia is credited by many historians as the first inventor of the cotton gin, and was using it on his plantation when he was visited by the frustrated Eli Whitney, who on seeing it went back to Savannah and soon developed his model which he patented.
[1] The cotton gin was later invented by the American inventor Eli Whitney in 1793 to mechanize the production of cotton fiber. Joseph Watkins who resided near Petersburg, Georgia is credited by many historians as the first inventor of the cotton gin, and was using it on his plantation when he was visited by the frustrated Eli Whitney, who on seeing it went back to Savannah and soon developed his model which he patented.
A cotton gin is a machine that quickly and easily separates cotton fibers from their seeds, allowing for much greater productivity than manual cotton separation. The fibers are processed into clothing or other cotton goods, and any undamaged cotton was used for clothes. Whitney (who died in 1825) could not have foreseen the ways in which his invention would change society for the worse. The most significant of these was the growth of slavery. While it was true that the cotton gin reduced the labor of removing seeds, it did not reduce the need for slaves to grow and pick the cotton.
Catherine Greene was a woman who tutored Eli Whitney. She supported Eli a lot. When Whitney created his invention he was quite done with it and Catherine helped him by finding the missing piece for it. The african salves would do something similar to cotton like the cotton gin but by hand. Eli Whitney would listened to planters & decided to help them out by inventing the cotton gin. Catherine was a women who supported the cotton gin idea & helped complete the invention. The African Slaves say that Eli stoled their idea from a comb that they used to take the seeds out of the cotton. The Southern Planters improved the cotton gin
It was the slaves! That's what some of my fellow classmates said. We were talking about who should get the most credit for the making of the cotton gin (the invention used to remove cotton seeds from cotton). The man who was given the most credit (in history books anyway) is Eli Whitney. In class one day we talked about the cotton gin. the person who made the cotton gin was Eli Whitney. The cotton gin is a machine that would take cotton in one side, remove the seeds with its “teeth” and make fluffy cotton.
Go with 105846's answer. It is still in contention who actually invented the Cotton Gin, but Eli Whitney got credit for it, mainly because of the laws at that time. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: according to http://www.eliwhitney.org/cotton.htm Eli Whitney went south and began working for Catherine Greene, who offered moral and financial support in Whitney's work at perfecting and patenting a cotton gin.
Angel M. & Ricky M. We think Eli Whitney shoud really get credit for the cotton gin because he actually thought of the idea of making the cotton gin and he just used some ideas from other people to help him. Also, he designed most of the cotton gin and developed it. Lastly, he marketed it and helped it spread. 