Liquorice (spelled licorice in many regions) is a confection flavoured with the extract of the roots of the liquorice plant. In North America, liquorice is called black licorice to distinguish it from similar confectionery varieties that are not flavoured with liquorice extract but commonly manufactured in the form of chewy ropes or tubes. So called black licorice is also a widespread flavour in other forms of candy such as jellybeans.
Throughout the years, licorice has been utilized as a medical treatment, culinary fragrance, and key ingredient for tasty sugar confections. It is even used in tobacco products, soft drinks, tea, brewing and in making aperitifs or liqueurs. Licorice root is available in liquid, dry, powdered, and peeled form. The licorice plant, an herbaceous perennial and legume, grows from three to seven feet and the taproot can reach a depth of four feet. The licorice plant is late blossoming, with purple and white flowers and maroon seed pods. The root is ready to harvest after three to five years.
Licorice is known to have an adverse effect on blood pressure. Black licorice candy. High blood pressure, along with tiredness, diarrhea, fluid retention and other temporary changes to the body, is a side effect of licorice. It is also known as licorice root, liquorice, and sweetroot. Anise or aniseed, Pimpinella anisum, has a similar flavor, but is a completely separate plant from a different family.
Liquorice, or licorice, (/ˈlɪkᵊrɪʃ/ LIK-(ə-)rish or /ˈlɪkᵊrɪs/ LIK-(ə-)ris) is the root of Glycyrrhiza glabra from which a sweet flavour can be extracted. The liquorice plant is a herbaceous perennial legume native to southern Europe, India, and parts of Asia. It is not botanically related to anise, star anise, or fennel, which are sources of similar flavouring compounds.
Licorice is more than just a sweet treat. Along with being a sweet treat, licorice might also be good for your health. Licorice comes from root of the low-growing Glycyrrhiza glabra plant, which grows in parts of Greece and Turkey. The plant has been used throughout history for a host of medicinal purposes. It’s used as a sweetener in some foods, and also flavors some licorice candies, although most use anise oil. Licorice flavoring contains the active ingredient glycyrrhizic acid, which can also be found in other products like gum, cookies, cough syrup, and tobacco.
2. licorice-a black candy flavored with the dried root of the licorice plant. liquorice. candy, confect-a rich sweet made of flavored sugar and often combined with fruit or nuts. Translations. n regaliz m. 
Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis). High blood pressure: Licorice can raise blood pressure. Don’t consume large amounts of it if you have high blood pressure. Heart disease: Licorice can cause the body to store water, and this can make congestive heart failure worse.
Licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) has been used in food and as medicine for thousands of years. Also known as sweet root, licorice root contains a compound that is about 50 times sweeter than sugar. Licorice root has been used in both Eastern and Western medicine to treat a variety of illnesses, ranging from the common cold to liver disease. Licorice that has the active ingredient of glycyrrhiza can have serious side effects. Another type of licorice, called DGL or deglycyrrhizinated licorice, doesn't seem to have the same side effects and is sometimes used to treat peptic ulcers, canker sores, and reflux (GERD).
Licorice root has been prized for its rich flavor and for over 3,000 years – King Tut, Alexander the Great, Roman Emperor Caesar, the Ancient Chinese and the Native Americans were known to appreciate its natural properties. Licorice root is also referred to as liquorice or sweetroot. The licorice plant, an herbaceous perennial and legume, grows from three to seven feet and the taproot can reach a depth of four feet. The licorice plant is late blossoming, with purple and white flowers and maroon seed pods. The root is ready to harvest after three to five years.