Historically, Bachelor of Medicine was also the primary medical degree conferred by institutions in the United States and Canada, such as University of Pennsylvania, Harvard, University of Toronto, University of Maryland, and Columbia. There are many medical schools in Vietnam, such Hanoi Medical University, the Vietnam University of Traditional Medicine, and the University of Ortondo-Stomatology. Most of them require six years to receive a Bachelor of Medicine degree.
The degree awarded is Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery. The minimum requirements for the MBBS course are 50% marks in physics, chemistry, biology and English in the '10+2' examinations. For reserved category students the requirement is 40%. MBBS admissions are not centralised. A medical college offers graduate degree Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS). Only institutions offering MBBS course in its curriculum are referred to as a Medical Colleges.
Medical education in India is governed by the Medical Council of India (MCI). MBBS is a four and half year’s course which has to be succeeded by one year of Compulsory Rotating Residential Internship. Eligibility Criteria. For students to get admission in the MBBS course, some basic criteria need to be fulfilled, as fixed by the MCI. 1  Candidates must have completed 17 years of age.
Eligibility. The selection for MBBS is done through an All India Entrance Examination, CET and the qualification required for entrance is 10+2 or equivalent with Science subjects. In addition to MBBS, candidate should complete House Surgency or internship for one year. 
Placement courses. All MBBS students are required to have a Blue Card (The Working with Children Check) issued by the Commission for Children and Young People and Child Guardian by first day of classes in Year 1 of the MBBS program. Students must also have a current Senior First Aid Certificate and provide evidence of immunisation. Students who do not maintain a GPA of at least 4.00 and still wish to gain entry into the MBBS will be required to complete the standard three year BSc (48 units) and then apply for entry into the MBBS as a graduate applicant.
DURATION OF COURSE. The course of studies leading to the award of degree of Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S.) of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences shall last for a minimum of 5 1/2 academic years including one year's compulsory. Application form complete in all respects should be sent to ASSISTANT CONTROLLER OF EXAMINATIONS, EXAMINATION SECTION, ALL INDIA INSTITUTE OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, ANSARI NAGAR, NEW DELHI-110029 by Registered A/D or Speed Post or delivered by hand at the Reception Counter of Examination Section, AIIMS.
Despite their styling as two degrees, Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery are usually conferred together. At some institutions, such as Oxford and Cambridge, it was possible to be awarded the degrees in different years. There are many medical schools in Vietnam, such Hanoi Medical University, the Vietnam University of Traditional Medicine, and the University of Ortondo-Stomatology. Most of them require six years to receive a Bachelor of Medicine degree.
In countries that follow the tradition of the United States, the equivalent medical degree is awarded as Doctor of Medicine (MD) or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO), which are professional doctorate degrees. There are many medical schools in Vietnam, such Hanoi Medical University, the Vietnam University of Traditional Medicine, and the University of Ortondo-Stomatology. Most of them require six years to receive a Bachelor of Medicine degree.
Admissions Criteria-MBBS. Applicants to the Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) programme must be at least 18 years of age in the year of admissions. Applicants must satisfy the relevant minimum entrance requirements, either at normal or lower level, before being considered for admission. 