When setting up your ad campaign, you can choose which option you want. In the United States, the average click costs advertisers $0.24 and the average CPM cost $0.66. However, these numbers varied greatly from advertiser to advertiser based on a number of factors. One Factor Is Type Of Business. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
In today’s article we are going to discuss how much Facebook advertising will cost your business. (If you don’t know much about Facebook advertising see our full guide on the topic here). Want $50 in free advertising on Bing! – Click Here. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
In Q3 of 2012 the average CPC was $0.62 USD. Check out the graphs below to see how the average CPC changed from Q2 2013 - Q3 2013. The report findings are based on 200 billion Facebook Ads. The default pricing option that Facebook sets for your ad is a “cost per click” (CPC) bid. This is a good option for when you’re first starting out, as the click through rate (CTR) for Facebook Ads is lower and paying for clicks is ultimately cheaper than if you were to pay for the same number of impressions (CPM).
Here's the one thing I tell people about Facebook ads that usually gets through: If you just spend $1 per day on Facebook ads, you will get in front of 4,000 people that wouldn't have seen you otherwise. If you are doing that and your competitors aren't, you win the awareness game in your niche. 
The Minimum Spend For Facebook Advertising. The minimum daily advertising spend on Facebook is a $1.00 per day. The minimum cost per click is 1 cent, however, you are unlikely to see any clicks if you bid that low. The same report mentioned above indicated that the cost of advertising per like worked out to be in the 50 to 80 cent range per like. For more on how to get customers for your business on Facebook, see our full series on the topic here.
In the U.K. average click-through rate (CTR) for Facebook advertising increased in 2013 from .13% in the first quarter, to .27% in the fourth quarter of the year. Globally, Facebook ads cost 21 cents per click in the fourth quarter of 2013 when purchased on a cost-per-click basis. The average cost-per-click for Facebook ads (when purchased on a per-click basis) increased 24% in 2013, world-wide. (this is not a surprise. Popularity always increases costs. (some of this is explained by brands chasing eyeballs due to the big drop in organic reach for Facebook posts). Costs to advertise to mobile audiences on Facebook are quite a bit higher than the norm, with costs per click at 35 cents in fourth quarter of 2013, and costs per 1,000 impressions (CPM) at $5.41.
CPL is only available if you choose “Page Likes” as your “Ad result”.: CPC (cost-per-click): If you use cost-per-click pricing, you only pay when someone clicks on your Facebook Ad. CPM (cost-per-mille): With cost-per-impression you pay when Facebook shows your ad 1000 times. (Impressions are the number of times your ad is shown to a user on Facebook). The default pricing option that Facebook sets for your ad is a “cost per click” (CPC) bid. This is a good option for when you’re first starting out, as the click through rate (CTR) for Facebook Ads is lower and paying for clicks is ultimately cheaper than if you were to pay for the same number of impressions (CPM).
This, however, doesn’t mean there’s no way to eliminate high advertising costs – on the contrary. If you understand how Facebook works, you’ll be able to lower your Facebook ad spending considerably. But then again, your goal shouldn’t be to see this as a cost at all. When advertising on Facebook you can choose between two cost models: 1  CPC: Cost per click. 2  CPM: Cost per thousand impressions (M = thousand in Latin).
Facebook Advertising Costs Also on the Upswing. Globally, Facebook ads cost 21 cents per click in the fourth quarter of 2013 when purchased on a cost-per-click basis. The average cost-per-click for Facebook ads (when purchased on a per-click basis) increased 24% in 2013, world-wide. (this is not a surprise. Popularity always increases costs. (some of this is explained by brands chasing eyeballs due to the big drop in organic reach for Facebook posts). Costs to advertise to mobile audiences on Facebook are quite a bit higher than the norm, with costs per click at 35 cents in fourth quarter of 2013, and costs per 1,000 impressions (CPM) at $5.41.