I have had arthritis in my hands for several years, in addition to Heberden's nodes. Some of the nodes are constantly very painful and water blisters have begun forming on the nodes. They develop as a result of inflammation that occurs in the bone under adjacent cartilage that has wear from degenerative arthritis (osteoarthritis). They can become inflamed at times and be painful. Sometimes a tiny fluid-filled cyst, called a ganglion, forms adjacent to the involved joint.
Bouchard's nodes are hard, bony outgrowths or gelatinous cysts on the proximal interphalangeal joints (the middle joints of fingers or toes.) They are a sign of osteoarthritis. Seen commonly in osteoarthritis, they are caused by formation of calcific spurs of the articular (joint) cartilage. 
Heberden’s nodes are bony swellings that develop in joints which are closest to the fingers and toes ends. Some people tend to have such swellings and they do not know the true cause of the problem. In this article, we will look at the causes of the swellings and how they can be removed. If you are a woman, you are more prone to having the Heberden nodes as they somehow like the female genetic structure than the male one. This indicates a distinctive connection between the nodes and genetics.
Heberden's nodes are bony prominences that occur at the smallest joint at the end of the fingers. They develop as a result of inflammation that occurs in the bone under adjacent cartilage that has wear from degenerative arthritis (osteoarthritis). They can become inflamed at times and be painful. Sometimes a tiny fluid-filled cyst, called a ganglion, forms adjacent to the involved joint.
Heberden S Nodes Exposed. This condition indicates an attack by Osteoarthritis disease which (by extension) occurs due to repeated trauma and injury on the joint. Swellings are caused by formation of Calcific spurs (osteophytes) of the articular joint. The node typically starts developing in the middle age. If you are a woman, you are more prone to having the Heberden nodes as they somehow like the female genetic structure than the male one. This indicates a distinctive connection between the nodes and genetics.
The lumps or nodules you refer, called Heberden's nodes, occur on the knuckle closest to the end of fingers. Similar lumps are called Bouchard's nodes when they form on the knuckles closer to the palm. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Heberden's nodes are hard or bony swellings that can develop in the distal interphalangeal joints (DIP) (the joints closest to the end of the fingers and toes). 
Heberden's and Bouchard's Nodes. Bony bumps on the finger joint closest to the fingernail are called Heberden's nodes. Bony bumps on the middle joint of the finger are known as Bouchard's nodes. Bony bumps are also common at the base of the thumb. These bumps do not have a nickname, but the joint is called the CMC or carpometacarpal joint. The name comes from the bone of the wrist (carpal) and the bone of the thumb (metacarpal)
Osteoarthritis may occur due to the wear and tear that comes with aging or as a result of an injury. In the case of Heberden’s nodes, enlargements and a general crookedness occur in the finger joints as the softening cartilage begins to disintegrate or wear away. The cartilage eventually becomes coarse. Instead of the bone being protected by cartilage, the bones begin to rub against each other. Heberden’s nodes are clearly viewed by examining the end joints on your fingers. Tiny bone outgrowths may extend from the knuckle closest to the fingernail. In many cases, an individual’s fingers may twist or become crooked as the nodes form. Symptoms include: 1  loss of motion.
Report Abuse. Well, it's a bone spur, a calcified spot on the bone so antibiotics are not what you use to treat it since it is not an infection. I would recommend you see an arthritis doctor. These types of nodes are a symptom of osteoarthritis. 