1 Mark Bittman suggests that, if you make the Corned Beef ahead of time, you should wrap it in aluminum foil. 2  You can then reheat the meat in the foil (place in a 300 degree oven for 30 minutes, then unwrap and heat for another 15 minutes).
1 After 2 hours, wrap the brisket tightly and tenting the foil but sealing it for the remainder of the time, an additional 2 hours. 2  Feel free to check and make sure there is moisture in the foil, re-wrap and continue baking. 3  Approximate baking time is 1 1/5 hours per pound.
Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Add beef stock and enough water to yield about 1/2 inch of liquid in the roasting pan. Lower oven to 300 degrees F, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain.
2. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Cook the brisket, covered, about 4 hours or until the meat is fork-tender and the onions are caramelized. (Calculate 45 minutes per pound as your cooking time.) For the last hour of cooking, slightly loosen the foil and baste the meat occasionally.
After that point, you’re simply getting the meat cooked through. DO AHEAD: Brisket is best shortly off the grill, but you can still get good results smoking it up to 3 days ahead. Let cool for an hour before wrapping in foil and chilling. To serve, reheat meat, still wrapped, in a 325-degree oven until warm
After that point, you’re simply getting the meat cooked through. DO AHEAD: Brisket is best shortly off the grill, but you can still get good results smoking it up to 3 days ahead. Let cool for an hour before wrapping in foil and chilling. To serve, reheat meat, still wrapped, in a 325° oven until warm
1 Bake, unwrapped, for 2 hours. 2  After 2 hours, wrap the brisket tightly and tenting the foil but sealing it for the remainder of the time, an additional 2 hours. 3  Feel free to check and make sure there is moisture in the foil, re-wrap and continue baking. 4  Approximate baking time is 1 1/5 hours per pound.