Their total annual spend for goods and services in the United States ranged from $1 million to $15 billion. To get a more granular look at diversity spend patterns, CAPS segmented the results into groups according to firms' U.S. spend.
Diversity impact of stereotyping (61%) and also monitoring With regard to diversity, not much has changed since recruitment and/or information in relation to staff last year. Table 21 highlights that only half of the diversity (71%).
Diversity recruiting strategies, in turn, boil down to finding the best, most qualified candidates. Companies weigh in on diversity: The goal of AT&T is to “have the best talent at the table from every background,” says Rick Gomez, executive director of Global AT&T College Recruiting.
1 More than half of the increase in diversity spend was with women-owned businesses. 2  Almost one-third (32.3 percent) of the diversity suppliers are women-owned businesses, and 16.3 percent are considered minority
Chubb reinforces its diversity recruiting goals through its strong partnership with Howard University, which resulted in several direct hires. Henson adds: “This partnership focuses on exposing diverse students to our industry by inviting them to spend a day in one of our 50 branch offices across the country.
The uneven progress among U.S. companies in general reflects the fact that much of the push for diversity was defensive, driven at first by legal requirements about hiring minorities and women.
The study also asked what percent of organizations had a goal for total spend with diversity suppliers. The majority (more than 74 percent) said that they did.
Technically, we’re all diverse. Is anyone completely defined by a box? Executives' approach to recruiting and ramping up their numbers – whether it’s women in tech roles, veterans, disabled or multiracial employees and more – isn't much different than recruiting as a whole: Hire the most qualified candidate.
As 71.79 percent of organizations expect their total supplier diversity program spend to increase within the next two years, according to a recent study from CAPS Research, it comes as no surprise to the number of recent headlines touting company’s commitment to achieving increased supplier diversity spend.