When a business becomes incorporated, a separate and distinct legal entity is created. An incorporated business acts independently of its business owners. Stock. Unlike a sole proprietorship or a partnership, an incorporated business has the ability to issue stock to employees and investors. Corporations with unissued shares of stock can sell shares to raise money for the company.
Inc. Inc. is the abbreviation for incorporated. A corporation is a separate legal entity from the person or people forming it. Directors and officers purchase shares in the business and have responsibility for its operation. Incorporation limits an individual's liability in case of a lawsuit.
When a business becomes incorporated, it has completed the process of becoming a corporation, as recognized by state law. Incorporation provides the owners with many advantages, but the primary benefit is the business will be viewed as a separate entity from its owners. This essentially puts its customers and other individuals on notice that the business is a corporation. In addition to filing the articles of incorporation, the company must continue to meet the state’s continuing disclosure rules, like annual reports and fee requirements.
Owners of a corporation may only be liable for business losses and obligations up to their investment in the company. As explained on the Entrepreneur website, the shareholder's personal assets may not be taken to cover liabilities of the corporation. Stock. Unlike a sole proprietorship or a partnership, an incorporated business has the ability to issue stock to employees and investors. Corporations with unissued shares of stock can sell shares to raise money for
A limited liability company is a legal business entity similar to a corporation. Although formation requirements are similar, incorporation only refers to the process of creating a corporation. However, just as shareholders have ownership interests in the corporation, an LLC has members who each own an undivided portion of the business assets.
(October 2014). Incorporation is the forming of a new corporation (a corporation being a legal entity that is effectively recognized as a person under the law). The corporation may be a business, a non-profit organization, sports club, or a government of a new city or town. 
A business becomes incorporated when the company's organizers file incorporation paperwork with the state. For example, corporations in Texas must file a certificate of formation with the Texas Secretary of State's office, as a condition of formation. Stock. Unlike a sole proprietorship or a partnership, an incorporated business has the ability to issue stock to employees and investors. Corporations with unissued shares of stock can sell shares to raise money for the company.
DEFINITION of 'Incorporation'. The process of legally declaring a corporate entity as separate from its owners. Incorporation has many advantages for a business and its owners, including: 1) Protects the owner's assets against the company's liabilities. 2) Allows for easy transfer of ownership to another party. 