While many types of scoliosis which develop in children and adolescents will stabilize on their own and not cause any symptoms, scoliosis associated with a syrinx often causes back pain and can progress rapidly. Compounding the problem is the ineffectiveness of standard treatment. Scoliosis can be caused by congenital conditions, neurological conditions (like SM), or can be of unknown origins. 80% of scoliosis cases have an unknown cause and are labeled idiopathic. Treatment options include observation, bracing, and surgery.
Other causes of syringomyelia include an injury to the spinal cord, spinal tumors, or mass lesions. Arachnoiditis (inflammation of the thin membrane just inside the dura membranc) can also create an abnormal spinal cavity, and cause a syrinx to develop. The most common area for a syrinx to develop is in the cervical spine (neck), with the second most common in the thoracic spine. As the syrinx grows in size, it may cause scoliosis (abnormal curve of the spine), which is best evaluated by special x-rays of the spine.
Syringomyelia is defined as an abnormal fluid cavity inside the spinal cord. The fluid cavity can be thought of something like a blister, and causes pressure from the inside of the spinal cord. The pressure disrupts the normal function of the nerves that travel in that area of the spinal cord. The most common area for a syrinx to develop is in the cervical spine (neck), with the second most common in the thoracic spine. As the syrinx grows in size, it may cause scoliosis (abnormal curve of the spine), which is best evaluated by special x-rays of the spine.
Syringomyelia /sɪˌrɪŋɡɵmaɪˈiːliə/ is a generic term referring to a disorder in which a cyst or cavity forms within the spinal cord. This cyst, called a syrinx, can expand and elongate over time, destroying the spinal cord. The damage may result in pain, paralysis, weakness, and stiffness in the back, shoulders, and extremities. Syringomyelia may also cause a loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especially in the hands.
1 For example, syringomyelia, a disorder in which cysts form along the spine, can cause scoliosis. 2  These spinal abnormalities may play a larger role in causing some cases of scoliosis than previously thought. 3  Stress fractures and hormonal abnormalities that affect bone growth in young, competitive athletes. They include the following: 1  Tumors, growths, or other small abnormalities on the spinal column. 2  For example, syringomyelia, a disorder in which cysts form along the spine, can cause scoliosis. 3
Scoliosis is a common condition related to syringomyelia in children; in fact, some studies have shown that more than 50% of children with a syrinx have abnormal spinal curvature. Scoliosis can be caused by congenital conditions, neurological conditions (like SM), or can be of unknown origins. 80% of scoliosis cases have an unknown cause and are labeled idiopathic. Treatment options include observation, bracing, and surgery.
Two American studies quote the incidence of scoliosis in syringomyelia to be about 60% If a child develops symptoms of scoliosis before age 16 the eventual incidence of scoliosis is 82%, if later than age 16 symptoms develop, the incidence is 48%. 
Syringomyelia causes a wide variety of neuropathic symptoms due to damage of the spinal cord. Patients may experience severe chronic pain, abnormal sensations and loss of sensation particularly in the hands. Some patients experience paralysis or paresis temporarily or permanently. The damage may result in pain, paralysis, weakness, and stiffness in the back, shoulders, and extremities. Syringomyelia may also cause a loss of the ability to feel extremes of hot or cold, especial
Syringomyelia. Syringomyelia (SM) is a disease in which there is a syrinx, or cyst, in the spinal cord. The syrinx is filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Due to normal activities like coughing and straining, SM cavities can slowly become larger over a period of time, often years. Damage to nerve tissue can result in serious and/or disabling symptoms. Syringomyelia can also be known as hydromyelia. CM causes most cases of SM. Up to 50 percent of CM patients also develop SM.
Scoliosis in common in children with a syrinx and is often diagnosed before syringomyelia. Non-surgical treatments for scoliosis associated with an active syrinx tend to not work and surgery can worsen the neurological situation. Scoliosis can be caused by congenital conditions, neurological conditions (like SM), or can be of unknown origins. 80% of scoliosis cases have an unknown cause and are labeled idiopathic. Treatment options include observation, bracing, and surgery.