Sertraline is used for a number of conditions including: major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), panic disorder and social phobia (social anxiety disorder). It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991. Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children.
Zoloft is the brand name of sertraline, an antidepressant used to treat major depressive disorders. Zoloft is in a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). They work by controlling levels of serotonin (a neurotransmitter) in the brain. A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. This medication is in the family of drugs called SSRIs and works by bringing a balance to serotonin in the brain that is causing your condition.
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). It is commonly used to treat depression, social anxiety disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. This medication is in the family of drugs called SSRIs and works by bringing a balance to serotonin in the brain that is causing your condition.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Sertraline is an antidepressant that treats the symptoms of different psychological disorders, including obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), by increasing serotonin and balancing chemicals in the brain. Sertraline is classified as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). 
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. It is in a group of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) that work to balance out the chemical, serotonin, in the brain that causes depression symptoms when there is too little to go around. A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. This medication is in the family of drugs called SSRIs and works by bringing a balance to serotonin in the brain that is causing your condition.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Zoloft (sertraline) works to treat depression by increasing the availability of a chemical in the brain called serotonin. Serotonin helps regulate mood, appetite and sleep. Zoloft is one of a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), panic attacks, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), social anxiety disorder and other conditions
Sertraline is used to treat depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and social anxiety disorder (SAD). Sertraline belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and social anxiety disorder. A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. This medication is in the family of drugs called SSRIs and works by bringing a balance to serotonin in the brain that is causing your condition.