Biomass refers to the biological material derived from living, or recently living organisms. In the context of biomass for energy the term is often used to mean plant based material, but can also apply to both animal and vegetable derived material. 
Save. Biofuels are harvested from organic materials of plant or animal origin. Though all fuels, including gases, derived from non-fossil biological materials can be classified as biofuels, the term is commonly used for the liquid biofuels that are used in our automobiles. 
Biofuels. Biofuels are solid, liquid or gas fuels made from recently-harvested biological material (biomass). Most biofuel is derived from plants, either crops grown specifically for fuel use or material left over from plants harvested for other uses. More about Biofuels: 1  How Biofuel is Made-Information on how biofuel is produced from different plant materials. 2  Biofuels Today-Information about current biofuel production and use in the United States and New York State.
Quick guides are concise explanations of topics or issues in the news. More Quick Guides. However, energy is used in farming and processing the crops, and this can make biofuels as polluting as petroleum-based fuels, depending on what is grown and how it is treated. Biofuels: the next batch. Sixty percent of new cars can run on a fuel mix which includes 85% ethanol. The European Union has a target for 2010 that 5.75% of transport fuels should come from biological sources, but the target is unlikely to be met.
Biofuels. Biofuels are produced from living organisms or from metabolic by-products (organic or food waste products). In order to be considered a biofuel the fuel must contain over 80 percent renewable materials. 
How Biomass Energy Works. To many people, the most familiar forms of renewable energy are the wind and the sun. But biomass (plant material and animal waste) is the oldest source of renewable energy, used since our ancestors learned the secret of fire. 
How Biofuel is Made. The energy that we get from biofuels originally came from the sun. This solar energy was captured through photosynthesis by the plants used as feedstocks (raw materials) for biofuel production, and stored in the plants' cells. 
Biodiesel can be used as a fuel for vehicles in its pure form, but it is usually used as a diesel additive to reduce levels of particulates, carbon monoxide, and hydrocarbons from diesel-powered vehicles. Biodiesel is produced from oils or fats using transesterification and is the most common biofuel in Europe. A biofuel is a fuel that is produced through contemporary biological processes, such as agriculture and anaerobic digestion, rather than a fuel produced by geological processes such as those involved in the formation of fossil fuels, such as coal and petroleum, from prehistoric biological matter.