Radicchio variegate di Castlefranco is a hybrid between radicchio and endive (Cichorium endiva). Castlefranco has loose, mild flavor leaves. Verona is another non-heading type, and has red color, open leaves with broad white veins as in cabbage.
A relative of endive, radicchio is a member of the chicory family and is sometimes referred to in English as “Italian chicory” or in French as “Chicoree Chicorée.” Rouge radicchio comes in many different shapes and. Colors radicchio Di chioggia has-burgundy red leaves with white ribs and is round resembling. cabbage
Radicchio growing herbaceous leaf plant of the genus Cichorium also known as Italian chicory or red chicory, Radicchio perennial deciduous plant also used as medical plant, can grow in temperate, mediterranean or subtropical climate. Leaves color green, inner leaves grow like head with color red with white vein.
A relative of endive, radicchio is a member of the chicory family and is sometimes referred to in English as “Italian chicory” or in French as “Chicoree Chicorée.” Rouge radicchio comes in many different shapes and. colors
Radicchio has burgundy colored leaves with white ribs, resembling a small cabbage head, and is not to be confused with radichetta, another chicory type with the red coloration but lacking the heading form. Radicchios leaf texture is similar to that of the French endive, another popular heading chicory variety.
Add color to your garden and dinner table by growing radicchio. Wine-red leaves have white ribs infused with tangy taste. Radicchio is an Old World chicory, a frost-tolerant vegetable that grows much like cabbage. Heads are small, reaching a size between an orange and a grapefruit. Cool weather sweetens leaf flavor.
Radicchio, like other chicory class of vegetables, is very low in calories. 100 g fresh leaves carry just 23 calories. The bitter principle in the radicchio is lactucopicrin (intybin) , a sesquiterpene lactone. Lactucopicrin is a potent anti-malarial agent and has a sedative and analgesic (painkiller) effect. Its leaves are an excellent source of phenolic flavonoid antioxidants such as zea-xanthin, and lutein.