Capitalism is an economic system. In it the government plays a secondary role. People and companies make most of the decisions, and own most of the property. Goods are usually made by companies and sold for profit. 
1 [Capitalism is a] free-market system: an economic system based on the private ownership of the means of production and distribution of goods, characterized by a free competitive market and motivation by profit. 2  MS Encarta: Lemma Capitalism, 2006. 1 [Capitalism is] an economic system based on private ownership, competition, and a free market. 2  Philip M Rideout (2000) The Newbury House dictionary of American English. 3  Heinle Publishers Inc, p. 108: Lemma Capitalism. 4  1.
Capitalism generally refers to an economic system in which means of production are mostly privately owned, and in which capital is invested in the production, distribution and/or other trade of goods and services for profit in a largely unregulated market. 1 [Capitalism is] an economic system based on private ownership, competition, and a free market. 2  Philip M Rideout (2000) The Newbury House dictionary of American English. 3  Heinle Publishers Inc, p. 108: Lemma Capitalism. 4  1.
In a capitalist economic system production is carried out for private profit, decisions regarding investment and the use of the means of production are determined by business owners in the marketplace. An economic system is a system of production and exchange of goods and services as well as allocation of resources in a society.
In the real world, many economies which are viewed to have a capitalist economic system may have government spending taking up 35% of GDP. This is because the government pays for welfare, health, education and national defence. 1 In a capitalist society, firms could gain monopoly power over consumers and workers. 2  Environmental problems. 3  A capitalist society driven by the profit motive may take decisions to maximise economic income in the short term, but at a cost of environmental problems in the long-term.
Another term for a capitalist economic system is A monopoly. B communist system. C free enterprise system. D cooperative system. Another term for a capitalist economic system is free enterprise system. 
Synonyms for capitalism. noun economic system of private ownership. 1  competition star. 2  democracy star. 3  free enterprise star. 4  private enterprise star. 5  commercialism star. 6  mercantilism star. 7  industrialism star. 8  free market star. 
A socialist economy is a system of production where goods and services are produced directly for use, in contrast to a capitalist economic system, where goods and services are produced to generate profit (and therefore indirectly for use). Production under socialism would be directly and solely for use. It is a world-economy and it is by definition capitalist in form. Socialism involves the creation of a new kind of world-system, neither a redistributive world-empire nor a capitalist world-economy but a socialist world-government.
A Capitalist economic system is one characterised by free markets and the absence of government intervention in the economy. In practice a capitalist economy will need some government intervention, primarily to protect private property. 1 In a capitalist society, firms could gain monopoly power over consumers and workers. 2  Environmental problems. 3  A capitalist society driven by the profit motive may take decisions to maximise economic income in the short term, but at a cost of environmental problems in the long-term.
DEFINITION of 'Capitalism'. A system of economics based on the private ownership of capital and production inputs, and on the production of goods and services for profit.