The most accepted theory is that coconuts are classified as drupes (more specifically “dry drupes”). A drupe is a fruit with a hard stony covering enclosing the seed (like a peach or olive). While it is possible to be allergic to coconut, the cross reactivity for those with tree nut allergies is very rare. Specific tests can be used by your Allergist to determine if you or your child are allergic to coconut. To add to the confusion, the FDA classified coconut as a “nut” in 2006
Coconut allergy is relatively rare. Coconut is a very different plant from peanut or tree nuts. The presence of the letters nut does not mean that coco-nut will trigger an allergic reaction in people allergic to peanut or tree nuts. The substances triggering allergic reactions to food are proteins. If a person is allergic to one protein present in one food only (e.g. coconut, dairy products, hen's egg), then an allergic reaction can only occur if they eat that one food.
If you have concerns about the risk of allergic reactions to other foods (like coconut or other foods), ask your allergy specialist about whether skin prick allergy testing or blood allergy testing (e.g. ImmunoCap) testing to coconut is available. The substances triggering allergic reactions to food are proteins. If a person is allergic to one protein present in one food only (e.g. coconut, dairy products, hen's egg), then an allergic reaction can only occur if they eat that one food.
Coconut can be a food allergen although its prevalence varies from country to country. While coconut is one of the top-five food allergies in India where it is a common food source, such allergies to coconut are considered rare in Australia, the UK, and the United States. As a result, commercial extracts of coconut are not currently available for skin prick testing in Australia or New Zealand. The coconut tree (Cocos nucifera) is a member of the family Arecaceae (palm family). It is the only accepted species in the genus Cocos. The term coconut can refer to the entire coconut palm, the seed, or the fruit, which, botanically, is a drupe, not a nut.
Coconut is a very different plant to peanut or tree nuts like almonds, cashews and pecans, and most people allergic to these foods can tolerate coconut. Coconut is a useful food. The coconut palm tree is a native of the tropics. The fruit of the palm is known as the coconut. The substances triggering allergic reactions to food are proteins. If a person is allergic to one protein present in one food only (e.g. coconut, dairy products, hen's egg), then an allergic reaction can only occur if they eat that one food.
Food proteins trigger food allergy. The substances triggering allergic reactions to food are proteins. If a person is allergic to one protein present in one food only (such as coconut, dairy products, hen's egg) then an allergic reaction can only occur if they eat that one food. Coconut Allergy. Coconut Allergy 77.72 Kb. Allergic reactions to eating coconut have been reported, but are relatively rare. By contrast, contact allergic dermatitis to coconut products is more common. Sensitisation to coconut pollen has been reported.
The FAAN response is “Discuss this with your doctor. Coconut, the seed of a drupaceous fruit, has typically not been restricted in the diets of people with tree nut allergy. However, in October of 2006, the Food and Drug Association (FDA) began identifying coconut as a tree nut. A drupe is a fruit with a hard stony covering enclosing the seed (like a peach or olive). While it is possible to be allergic to coconut, the cross reactivity for those with tree nut allergies is very rare. Specific tests can be used by your Allergist to determine if you or your child are allergic to coconut.
The relative frequency of allergy to peanut and tree nuts (relatively common) compared to those allergic to coconut (very rare) would suggest that the risk of coconut allergy in an individual known to be allergic to peanut or tree nuts is very low, so much so that allergy testing to coconut is not considered as routine. Coconut Allergy. Coconut Allergy 77.72 Kb. Allergic reactions to eating coconut have been reported, but are relatively rare. By contrast, contact allergic dermatitis to coconut products is more common. Sensitisation to coconut pollen has been reported.
Generally, people that suffer from tree nut allergies usually do fine with coconuts. This is because the coconut is classified as a fruit and seed rather than a nut. Botanists classify them as dry drupes. Dry drupes are fruits that have an outer fleshy layer with an encased seed in the middle. As a result, there is no documented evidence suggesting that people with tree nut allergies need to avoid coconut. So, for those of you that do suffer from tree nut allergies (adults and children alike), have no fear with the coconut.