The surname first appears on record in England in the early part of the 13th Century (see below). Petrus del Hage, whose name occurs in Scottish documents, dated 1160, is believed to have originally come from La Hague in Manche, Normandy, named from the Old Norse hagi. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Jollan de Hagh, which was dated 1222, in the Close Rolls of Yorkshire, during the reign of King Henry 111, known as The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation
You can find out where the majority of the Haigh families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Haigh birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Haigh Name Meaning. English (chiefly Yorkshire): topographic name for someone who lived by a hedged or fenced enclosure (Old English haga), or a habitational name from a place named with this word (or its Old Norse cognate hagi), especially three places called Haigh, two in West Yorkshire and the other near Manchester. Click on a circle in the chart to view Haigh birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
You can find out when most of the Haigh families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Click on a circle in the chart to view Haigh birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names.
Haigh Name Meaning. English (chiefly Yorkshire): topographic name for someone who lived by a hedged or fenced enclosure (Old English haga), or a habitational name from a place named with this word (or its Old Norse cognate hagi), especially three places called Haigh, two in West Yorkshire and the other near Manchester. Click on a circle in the chart to view Haigh emigration records. You can find out when most of the Haigh families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to emigration records dating from that era.
If you are conducting some Haigh family history research then you can view the Haigh coat of arms and the name meaning and origin of the name as well as the meaning of symbols below. The names Haigh and Haig in Ireland are often of immigrant origin, especially in Ulster Province where they were introduced during the seventeenth century.
In the modern idiom the name is spelt Haig, Hague and Haigh, the last mentioned form being most widespread in Yorkshire. On April 19th 1545, Alice Haigh and William Wilson were married in Halifax, Yorkshire. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Jollan de Hagh, which was dated 1222, in the Close Rolls of Yorkshire, during the reign of King Henry 111, known as The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation
This surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and may be either a topographical name from residence by an enclosure, deriving from the Olde English pre 7th Century haga, cognate with the Old Norse hagi, hedged field; or locational from Haigh in West Yorkshire, or in Lancashire. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Jollan de Hagh, which was dated 1222, in the Close Rolls of Yorkshire, during the reign of King Henry 111, known as The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation