1 Gases can dissolve in water. 2  The dissolving of a gas in water depends on the interaction between the molecules of the gas and the water molecules. 3  The amount of gas that can be dissolved in water depends on the temperature of the water. 4  More gas can dissolve in cold water than in hot water. CO2 is soluble because water molecules are attracted to these polar areas. The bond between carbon and oxygen is not as polar as the bond between hydrogen and oxygen, but it is polar enough that carbon dioxide
As the sugar molecules spread evenly throughout the water, the sugar dissolves. Mixing a liquid in a gas makes another type of solution, called a gaseous solution. An example of this type of solution is humidity. Humidity is water (a liquid) dissolved in air (a gas). And when the excessive solute has been dissolved by heating the solution, it's said to be supersaturated. The point of this experiment, in addition to learning whether salt or sugar dissolves faster in various liquids, is to learn how molecules interact in a solution.
When you wish to dissolve a solid in a liquid faster, you increase the temperature. This makes the solid particles move faster and farther, and thus dissolve in the liquid fas … ter. Henry's law states that the solubility of a gas is directly proportional to the partial pressure of that gas over the liquid. The higher the partial pressure, the more gas will be dissolved-- that's why your blood boils in a vacuum; there's not enough pressure to keep the gas in it dissolved.
A solute is the substance—either a solid, liquid or gas—that gets dissolved. A solvent —which also can be a solid, liquid, or gas—is the substance that does the dissolving. A solution is a uniform mixture of a solute (usually a solid) dissolved in a solvent (usually a liquid). And when the excessive solute has been dissolved by heating the solution, it's said to be supersaturated. The point of this experiment, in addition to learning whether salt or sugar dissolves faster in various liquids, is to learn how molecules interact in a solution.
You can make a solid dissolve faster in water that; 1. Stirring the mixture, the solid dissolves faster, that doesn't effect amount of resolition 2. The warmer the water, the faster the water molecules move, thus enabling them to pull apart the solid faster. 2. Stirring the mixture (this gets more of the water in contact with the solid, faster). 3. If it's not already done, breaking the solid up into smaller particles.
Answer by Carlos Ayala. Confidence votes 1.5K. When you wish to dissolve a solid in a liquid faster, you increase the temperature. This makes the solid particles move faster and farther, and thus dissolve in the liquid faster. However, the problem with dissolving a gas is the opposite: gas particles already are moving fast and far, to the point where it is difficult to keep them stay in the liquid. The opposite is thus done, lower the temperature. 
1 For a liquid to dissolve a solid, the molecules of the liquid and solid must attract one another. 2  The bond between the oxygen and hydrogen atoms (O–H bond) in sugar (sucrose) gives the oxygen a slight negative charge and the hydrogen a slight positive charge. 3  Sucrose is a polar molecule. Key Concepts. 1 
1 The dissolving of a gas in water depends on the interaction between the molecules of the gas and the water molecules. 2  The amount of gas that can be dissolved in water depends on the temperature of the water. CO2 is soluble because water molecules are attracted to these polar areas. The bond between carbon and oxygen is not as polar as the bond between hydrogen and oxygen, but it is polar enough that carbon dioxide can dissolve in water.
When you dissolve sugar or salt in a liquid-say, water-what happens is that the sugar molecules move to fit themselves between the molecules of water within a glass or beaker. The illustration below shows how the different molecules are arranged in the container. The point of this experiment, in addition to learning whether salt or sugar dissolves faster in various liquids, is to learn how molecules interact in a solution. As you saw in the preceding illustration, the water molecules take up most of the room
The illustration below shows how the different molecules are arranged in the container. A solute, such as sugar, dissolved in a solvent, such as water, results in a liquid solution. In your experiment, you'll see how salt and sugar molecules move within different liquids and dissolve at different rates. And when the excessive solute has been dissolved by heating the solution, it's said to be supersaturated. The point of this experiment, in addition to learning whether salt or sugar dissolves faster in various liquids, is to learn how molecules interact in a solution.