On a Urine Drug Test, THC will appear as a positive within 2-5 hours of use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days. 2  Moderate User may show positive for 7-13 days
THC by-product: 2-3 days after smoking. Infrequent users urine drug test. THC by-product: up to 10 days after smoking. See the Discussion area for more input and stories from other Wiki s contributors. Approximate times, Cannabis (marijuana) can be detected through testing: Single Use: Blood Test: 2-3 days Saliva Test: 12-24 hours Urine Test: 2-3 days Hair Test: Up to 90 days, depending on how long your hair sample they use has been growing.
Marijuana itself does not stay in your system, but the main chemical in marijuana, THC, does. In fact, it may stay in your system forever because it is stored in fatty tissues of various organs. Despite being stored in body fat, THC is only detectable for a certain amount of time. Approximate times, Cannabis (marijuana) can be detected through testing: Single Use: Blood Test: 2-3 days Saliva Test: 12-24 hours Urine Test: 2-3 days Hair Test: Up to 90 days, depending on how long your hair sample they use has been growing.
On a Saliva Drug Test, THC will test positive within one hour of use, but may only show positive for about 12 hours after last use. On a Hair Drug Test, THC will show up about 7 days after use and most hair drug tests will test for a 90 day period. However, THC does not always bind to the hair follicle which makes it not always considered an accurate testing method for marijuana use. How long it will still show on a urine drug test is estimated based on frequency of use, but does not take into account the weight and body fat of the marijuana user: 1  One Time User may show positive for 1-6 days.
The reason for marijuana staying in your system for so long is that THC is fat-soluble. This means it ends up being stored in your body fat. When your body burns those fat cells later, the THC is released and ends up in your urine. The more you smoke weed, and the heavier you are, the more THC will accumulate. Your weight and how fast your metabolism is. How often you smoke and the strength of the weed. There are ways to get weed out of your urine quickly, at least for long enough to take a test. This Detox Drink will flush weed out of your urine in just two hours.
However, urine tests detect a different chemical called THC-COOH. THC-COOH is a metabolite of THC. It is produced when the liver breaks down THC and stays in the body for much longer. The most common cutoff level for THC-COOH used by drug screening companies is 50 ng/mL. Less common cutoff levels are 20 ng/mL and 100 ng/mL. 
Before we understand the period of time that marijuana lasts in the system, there are a couple of facts that you should know. - The presence of marijuana is detected by a drug test through the presence of the active chemical THC or Tetrahydrocannabinol. Technically, what is detected is known as THC-COOH ... Marijuana can stay in the urine for up to two months in cases of very frequent, prolonged use. Basically, the more you use marijuana, the longer it will remain in your urine. If you have just tried marijuana, for example, and that was your only use, it will probably be out of your urine within a week.
- The time that marijuana stays in the system depends on the amount of marijuana intake and the frequency at which it is consumed. - When you smoke marijuana, your body breaks it down like it would anything else. The products of this breakdown are known as metabolites. The main metabolite of marijuana is THC-COOH. Marijuana can stay in the urine for up to two months in cases of very frequent, prolonged use. Basically, the more you use marijuana, the longer it will remain in your urine. If you have just tried marijuana, for example, and that was your only use, it will probably be out of your urine within a week.
WebMD. 8,020 Answers. 353,444 Helpful Votes. 388 Followers. A. If you're wondering how long marijuana stays in your system after smoking, it depends on how often you smoke. Light users -- those who smoke pot once in a while -- will have a negative drug screen after a marijuana-free week. 
Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC can stay in a persons system from 2 to up to 90 days depending on several variables such as height, weight, physical fitness and substance usage. Occasional users would be clean within one week, a daily user can take up to one month, and a constant user can take up to almost 3 months. Approximate times, Cannabis (marijuana) can be detected through testing: Single Use: Blood Test: 2-3 days Saliva Test: 12-24 hours Urine Test: 2-3 days Hair Test: Up to 90 days, depending on how long your hair sample they use has been growing.