Oracle’s founder Larry Ellison has stepped down as CEO and has been replaced in the position by former HP CEO Mark Hurd and Safra Catz. Ellison’s new titles are Executive Chairman and Chief Technology Officer.
Last month at a marathon five-hour online event, Oracle Executive Chairman of the Board and CTO, Larry Ellison and Thomas Kurian, President, Product Development announced 24 cloud services (phew!) cutting across IaaS, PaaS, SaaS segments.
Though he stepped down as Oracle CEO in September 2014, Larry Ellison still calls some of the shots at the database-software giant. In June 2015 he announced that Oracle was expanding its cloud-computing business, putting it in direct competition with Amazon.com's Web Services unit.
Ellison co-founded Oracle in 1977. Here's more from the AP: SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Oracle co-founder Larry Ellison is ending his 37-year reign as CEO of the business software maker that he co-founded and is handing over the job to his two top lieutenants, Safra Catz and Mark Hurd.
He called HP's board members cowardly for making the hasty decision to force Mr. Hurd to resign.In an ironic twist Mr. Hurd is replacing Oracle's own sex scandal victim, Co-President Charles Phillips, who just resigned.
Kurian joined Oracle in 1996 after a stint at McKinsey. His most recent title was EVP of product development. He reported to Oracle executive chairman and CTO Larry Ellison and I’m betting will continue to do so.
Mark Hurd oversees the corporate direction and strategy for Oracle's global field operations, including sales, support, consulting, marketing, and alliances and channels.
At one event years ago, then-Oracle President Charles Phillips joked to reporters and analysts that Kurian, not he, would be the next CEO of Oracle.
Larry Ellison, the co-founder of Oracle, is stepping down as CEO, according to the company. Ellison, who is the fifth-richest man in the world according to Forbes, was appointed the company's chief technology officer and will also serve as chairman.