A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. 
You do not include in your gross income qualified distributions or distributions that are a return of your regular contributions from your Roth IRA(s). You also do not include distributions from your Roth IRA that you roll over tax free into another Roth IRA. Unlike a traditional IRA, you cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. But, if you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions (discussed later) are tax free. Contributions can be made to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70½ and you can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live.
A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. 
Your ROTH IRA withdrawal will be tax free if: 1  You withdraw just the amount of your original contributions, regardless of your age. 2  You are age 59 ½ or older and have had your ROTH for five years or longer (as measured from the first of the year for which you first established and contributed to your ROTH). 
Defining Qualified Distribution. Distributions from a Roth IRA that are not qualified may be subject to income tax and an additional 10% early-distribution penalty. A qualified distribution meets both of the following two categories of requirements: 1. 
Withdrawals made after age 59 and 1/2 are normal retirement withdrawals and are not taxed. You paid tax on that income when you first contributed to the Roth IRA. If the withdrawal is made before age 59 and 1/2 and is only up to the amount that has been contributed to the Roth IRA then no income tax is charged. Withdrawals of contributions are tax-free. Whether or not your withdrawal from a Roth IRA is taxes depends on a few factors. First, the funds must have been in the Roth IRA for at least five years before they can be withdrawn. Additional factors include: 1  When the withdrawal was made.
If you own a Roth IRA, you may be under the impression that you'll never owe any federal income tax on withdrawals. Not true. Even worse, some withdrawals can be socked with a 10% penalty on top of the income tax bill. Here's what you need to know. 
You don’t pay tax on your Roth IRA distributions until you withdraw earnings, and you aren’t considered to be withdrawing earnings from your Roth IRA until the total amount you’ve withdrawn from all your Roth IRAs is greater than the total amount you contributed to all your Roth IRAs, including rollover contributions. When taxes and penalties apply. If you receive a non-qualified distribution of earnings from an IRA and don’t meet any of the tests described above, you must pay two taxes: the regular income tax plus an additional 10% early withdrawal penalty tax. Example: You contributed $2,000 to a Roth IRA.
Distributions taxed as ordinary income. If your distributions are taxable, you’re required to treat them as ordinary income. You can’t treat them as capital gain, even if the IRA received the earnings as capital gain. Example: You contributed $2,000 to a Roth IRA and invested it in stock. When taxes and penalties apply. If you receive a non-qualified distribution of earnings from an IRA and don’t meet any of the tests described above, you must pay two taxes: the regular income tax plus an additional 10% early withdrawal penalty tax. Example: You contributed $2,000 to a Roth IRA.
Roth IRA contributions are not taxed at the time you contribute the funds to your Roth IRA. However, your contributions come from post-tax income. You pay taxes on your income today, but not in the future. Whether or not your withdrawal from a Roth IRA is taxes depends on a few factors. First, the funds must have been in the Roth IRA for at least five years before they can be withdrawn. Additional factors include: 1  When the withdrawal was made.