By Phil Myers. The annelids include earthworms, polychaete worms, and leeches. All members of the group are to some extent segmented, in other words, made up of segments that are formed by subdivisions that partially transect the body cavity. Segmentation is also called metamerism. 
Segmented worms make up the Phylum Annelida. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and a large number of mostly marine worms known as polychaetes. Polychaetes (meaning many bristles) have many bristles on the body, while earthworms and leeches have fewer bristles. Some are parasitic, as the leeches; others filter-feed or prey on other invertebrates. Segmented wormsmake up the Phylum Annelida. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and a large number of mostly marine worms known as polychaetes.
Annelida is a group commonly referred to as segmented worms, and they are found worldwide from the deepest marine sediments to the soils in our city parks and yards. Through most of the 20th century Annelida was split into three major groups; Polychaeta, Oligochaeta (earthworms etc.) and Hirudinea (leeches). 
Leeches are segmented worms that belong to the phylum Annelida and comprise the subclass Hirudinea. Like the oligochaetes, such as earthworms, leeches share a clitellum and are hermaphrodites. Nevertheless, they differ from the oligochaetes in significant ways. 
Earthworms are big segmented worms that belong to the Phylum Annelida, Class Clitellata, and sub class Oligochaeta. Leeches are also worms belonging to Phylum Annelida, Class Clitellata and sub class Hirudinae. Anatomy. Earthworms have a segmented (37-100) tube-like muscular body connected by a continuous gut, a nerve and a blood vessel. The body of a leech is divided into 34 segments with a small anterior and large posterior sucker. Leeches are also worms belonging to the same Phylum and class, but sub class Hirudinae and are of three types, freshwater, terrestrial and marine. The similarities and differences between earthworms and leeches are outlined below.
Segmented worms (Annelida) are a group of invertebrates that includes about 12,000 species of earthworms, ragworms and leeches. Segmented worms live in marine habitats such as the intertidal zone and near hydrothermal vents. 
The annelids (Annelida, from Latin anellus, little ring), also known as the ringed worms or segmented worms, are a large phylum, with over 17,000 extant species including ragworms, earthworms, and leeches. 
Leeches. Leeches are segmented worms that belong to the phylum Annelida and are similar to earthworms in the way that they are both hermaphrodites and they both share a clitellum. The majority of leeches live in freshwater environments, while other species can be found in terrestrial and marine environments, as well. 
Earthworms are big segmented worms that belong to the Phylum Annelida, Class Clitellata, and sub class Oligochaeta. Leeches are also worms belonging to the same Phylum and class, but sub class Hirudinae and are of three types, freshwater, terrestrial and marine. The similarities and differences between earthworms and leeches are outlined below.