As long as you have some hair, you can get dreads. I say you should wait till your hair grow longer so you can get the long ones like T-Pain. I love T-Pain. 
Fine hair will only break if you try to turn it into dreads. The best hair-type for dreadlocks is coarse. The thicker diameter of coarse hairs helps to resist breakage. Keep in mind that with dreads, you still have to shampoo ... and each time you do, your fine hair will be stretching and breaking. *Sombra* · 7 years ago. Report Abuse. You need at least 3 inches for the backcombing method (fastest and best-looking dreads come from this method), so you're going to have to wait until your hair grows at least one more inch.
Next comes the backcombing part. This part is where the extra helpers come in so handy. Depending on your hair length you will spend between 4-15 minutes on each dread, multiply that by about 30 for larger dreads, or 100 for small dreads and that’s how long it will take you to make dreads. Yeah, go make some more friends so they can help. 
1. Your hair needs to be at least 8 cm's. The longer your hair is, the easier it will be to dread and quicker it will mature so if your hair is on the shorter side they may just need a little more maintenance before they really start to lock and tighten. Top. 
Best Answer: Your hair seems long enough, that is if you want mini dreads. I'm pretty sure if you get dreads now it will hold because I see many people with short hair who have dreads. So I guess it depends on how long you want your dreads to be. Source(s): Mandie · 9 years ago.
If you're not sure that your hair is long enough to start dreads or have questions you would like answered in person, you're welcome to book a free consultation. If you're wondering how long your appointment will take, you can guesstimate with these advanced mathematical calculations: Shorter hair = less time. 
Making Dreadlocks with a Dread extension: If you don’t have any dreadlocks yet, and you can’t wait for your hair to be long enough to dread you can have your dream dreads from the start with the help of a dread extension. Firstly, I make a lot of mini-dreads with your hair. It has to be at least 8 cm to be dreadable, and to create a stable foundation which can support the weight of the dread extensions. Attaching dread extensions to preexisting dreads: No need to wait, using extensions you`ll get to have your dreadlocks just as long as you want them to be. To lengthen dreads, whether you have already had them for a long time or only for a few weeks, synthetic or real hair is attached to the already existing dreads.