Mark Moran. The Common Snapping Turtle is Virginia's largest turtle. It's carapace (top shell) will grow to 18 inches long, and they can weigh up to 45 pounds. Snapping turtles have a large head with a hooked jaw. Their colors are usually dull brown to black. They have webbed feet with long claws and a very long tail
The common snapping turtle is noted for its combative disposition when out of the water with its powerful beak-like jaws, and highly mobile head and neck (hence the specific name serpentina, meaning  snake-like). In water, they are likely to flee and hide themselves underwater in sediment. The safest way to pick up a common snapping turtle is by grasping the carapace above the back legs. There is a large gap above the back legs that allows for easy grasping of the carapace and keeps hands safe from both the beak and claws of the turtle.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The common snapping turtle (Chelydra serpentina) is a large freshwater turtle of the family Chelydridae. Its natural range extends from southeastern Canada, southwest to the edge of the Rocky Mountains, as far east as Nova Scotia and Florida. The safest way to pick up a common snapping turtle is by grasping the carapace above the back legs. There is a large gap above the back legs that allows for easy grasping of the carapace and keeps hands safe from both the beak and claws of the turtle.
The common snapping turtle is a very hardy, wide ranging specie. Its natural range extends from southern Canada through the eastern and central United States and eastern Mexico to northern South America. Throughout this range are 4 very similar subspecies. 
How big do snapping turtles get and how long do they live? Answer: Common snapping turtles live up to about 40 or 50 years. Usually the captive snappers kept as pets live longer than their wild cousins. The alligator snapping turtles on the other hand live uch longer and it is believed that they can reach a 100 years or so. The common snappers can grow to quite impressive sizes in captivity. A weight of 40 - 50 pounds is not uncommon, and some people reported having a snapper as heavy as 80 pounds. Again, the alligator snapping turtle is much bigger.
Like all turtles, snapping turtles have a shell that covers their back, also called a carapace. In snapping turtles the carapace is normally between 8 and 18 1/2 inches long. The shell color ranges from dark brown to tan and can even be black. As a snapping turtle grows, the shell often becomes covered with mud and algae. The tail has sharp ridges running along its length, and is nearly as long as the shell. Snapping turtles will eat nearly anything that they can get their jaws around. They feed on dead animals, insects, fish, birds, small mammals, amphibians, and a surprisingly large amount of aquatic plants. Snapping turtles kill other turtles by biting off their heads.
how big can a snapping turtle get? The common snapper can reach 50-80 lbs. and can live 40-50 years attaining a carapace size of 18'. As babies snapping turtles get along with all kinds of turtles. once the snapping turtle gets big enough, it starts to realize it is stronger and bigger than the other turtles … . At that point it gets very aggressive. I have a 6 month old snapping turtle that is very calm and stays away from the other turtles.
Please try again later. A Common snapping turtle is a large freshwater turtle.(Chelydra serpentina) They eat carrion (dead animals), plants, small birds and fish.They have strong jaws which can deliver a powerful bite that can take your finger off. So stay clear of their mouth. 
The eggs and hatchlings of snapping turtles may be eaten by other large turtles, great blue herons, crows, raccoons, skunks, foxes, bullfrogs, water snakes, and large predatory fish, such as largemouth bass. However, once snapping turtles become larger, there are few animals that prey on them. Snapping turtles will eat nearly anything that they can get their jaws around. They feed on dead animals, insects, fish, birds, small mammals, amphibians, and a surprisingly large amount of aquatic plants. Snapping turtles kill other turtles by biting off their heads.
Best Answer: Snapping turtles are noted for their powerful beak-like jaws and pugnacious disposition. They have a muscular build with ridged shells that may measure from 50 cm long in Chelydra species to some 80 cm long in the Alligator Snapping Turtle (Macroclemys temminckii). The latter species is one of the largest freshwater turtles in the world, weighing up to 100 kilograms. The Common Snapping Turtle (C