Most dogs that are neutered are not normally off their food for more than a day. You should contact your vet if your pet does not eat for more than 24 hours after surgery. 2) Exercising your dog after neutering: It takes 10-14 days for superficial skin sutures to heal after surgery. Neutering after-care-all you need to know about caring for your dog after neutering surgery. Includes information on feeding, bathing, exercising, wound care, pain relief, sutures-out time and stopping dogs from licking surgical wounds.
A very legitimate concern, pet overpopulation, has been the primary driving force behind 30 years of national and local spay/neuter campaigns. When it comes to deciding at what age a companion animal should be sterilized, the standard for most spay/neuter campaigns has been sooner rather than later. 
A: Shelter euthanasia is the number one killer of companion animals. Spaying and neutering is the only way to reduce or eliminate that. It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. And the problem with letting your dog have a litter is you’ve just instantly contributed to the pet overpopulation problem. Now you have to find homes for all those puppies. And for each home you find, there’s one less home for a dog that was already born. Plus, you can’t be responsible for what the new owners do.
You heard me right. Do not spay or neuter your dog. Well, at least not right away. And not all dogs. My friend, Zeke's owner, he had a lot of questions about his new puppy. One question was pertaining to spaying and neutering. Zeke is a Llewellyn Setter. He is a breed of pointing dog. 
As stated in the opening section, neutering is the surgical removal of a male dog's testicles. During the procedure, each of the dog's testes and testicular epididymi are removed along with sections of the dog's testicular blood vessels and spermatic ducts (vas deferens or ductus deferens). Neutering after-care-all you need to know about caring for your dog after neutering surgery. Includes information on feeding, bathing, exercising, wound care, pain relief, sutures-out time and stopping dogs from licking surgical wounds.
1 Once male pups are eight weeks old, it's likely that their testicles have fully descended, which is a necessary condition for performing the surgery. 2  According to the ASPCA, spaying and neutering can occur as early as eight weeks. Reasons for Early Neutering. Neutering dogs at an early age can actually keep some dogs from developing negative behavior patterns. Issues may include: 1  Aggressive behavior in some male dogs once they become sexually mature.
When to neuter. A male dog can be neutered any time after eight weeks of age. A few years ago, most veterinarians advised waiting until puberty hit at about six months, and some still make that recommendation. Talk to your veterinarian about what’s best for your dog. Neutering sterilizes a male dog so he’s incapable of parenting puppies. Many, many wonderful health and behavioral effects occur because he’s undergone “the big snip.”. It’s a simple surgery, far more so than a spay.
2. Canine spaying pros and cons-the reasons for and against spaying a dog. 2a. The benefits of dog spaying (the pros of dog spaying) - reasons for spaying your dog.2b. The disadvantages of desexing (the cons of dog spaying) - why some people choose not to spay their female dogs. 3. Information about dog spaying age: when to spay a dog. The following two subsections discuss desexing age recommendations and how they have been established as well as the pros and cons of early age (8-16 weeks) dog spaying (spaying a puppy). 3a.
Adult dogs can be neutered at any age, but the best time is before sexual maturity. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year