Some cases of diabetes are caused by the body's tissue receptors not responding to insulin (even when insulin levels are normal, which is what separates it from type 2 diabetes); this form is very uncommon. Genetic mutations (autosomal or mitochondrial) can lead to defects in beta cell function. 1 This form was previously referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or juvenile diabetes. 2  The cause is unknown. 3  Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. 4  As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop.
Diabetes mellitus type 2 (formerly noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes) is a metabolic disorder that is characterized by hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) in the context of insulin resistance and relative lack of insulin. Obesity is thought to be the primary cause of type 2 diabetes in people who are genetically predisposed to the disease (although this is not the case in people of East-Asian ancestry). Type 2 diabetes is initially managed by increasing exercise and dietary changes.
This is in contrast to diabetes mellitus type 1 in which there is an absolute insulin deficiency due to destruction of [islet cells in the pancreas and gestational diabetes mellitus that is a new onset of high blood sugars associated with pregnancy. Obesity is thought to be the primary cause of type 2 diabetes in people who are genetically predisposed to the disease (although this is not the case in people of East-Asian ancestry). Type 2 diabetes is initially managed by increasing exercise and dietary changes.
Type 1 diabetes mellitus is characterized by loss of the insulin-producing beta cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas, leading to insulin deficiency. This type can be further classified as immune-mediated or idiopathic. 1 This form was previously referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or juvenile diabetes. 2  The cause is unknown. 3  Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. 4  As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. 1 This form was previously referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or juvenile diabetes. 2  The cause is unknown. 3  Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. 4  As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop.
As of 2014, an estimated 387 million people have diabetes worldwide, with type 2 DM making up about 90% of the cases. This represents 8.3% of the adult population, with equal rates in both women and men. From 2012 to 2014, diabetes is estimated to have resulted in 1.5 to 4.9 million deaths each year. 1 This form was previously referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or juvenile diabetes. 2  The cause is unknown. 3  Type 2 DM begins with insulin resistance, a condition in which cells fail to respond to insulin properly. 4  As the disease progresses a lack of insulin may also develop.
Welcome to Diabetes Wiki! A wiki is a website that's created by the people who use it. Diabetes Wiki is a place where people with diabetes can share their personal stories, and build a database of helpful information. If this is your first time on a wiki, then the first step is to create a user name -- it's free, and it only takes thirty seconds. Then visit the sandbox to try out your first edit!