A microclimate is the distinctive climate of a small-scale area, such as a garden, park, valley or part of a city. Upland regions. Upland areas have a specific type of climate that is notably different from the surrounding lower levels. Temperature usually falls with height at a rate of between 5 and 10 °C per 1000 m, depending on the humidity of the air.
But also, your site is unlikely to feel uniform. Across a single location, there can be a significant number of different microclimates. These microclimates have different atmospheric conditions from the areas they are next to, with variations in temperature, light and water all likely to be present.
Definition: A microclimate is the climate of a small, specific place within an area as contrasted with the climate of the entire area, or the macroclimate.. The climate of the entire area is indicated by where a region lies in the USDA Plant Hardiness Zone (simply zone for short). 
The shape of the land is a significant influence on microclimates. While on a large scale, weather systems have a certain predictability (related to the rotation of the earth and the interplay between ocean and land), these patterns can get disrupted at the local level by topographical features such as aspect and slope. Across a single location, there can be a significant number of different microclimates. These microclimates have different atmospheric conditions from the areas they are next to, with variations in temperature, light and water all likely to be present.
1 Within a climatic region, the climate may vary from place to place-eg the top of a hill, the sunny side of a hill, the shaded side of a hill and the bottom of a hill. 2  These areas with their small variations are called microclimates. ] , fauna [fauna: All the different types of animals that live in a specific area. ] and climate are called biomes. The weather takes into account the temperature [Temperature: How hot or cold something is, for example the atmosphere or the sea.
It is these subtle differences and exceptions to the rule that make microclimates so fascinating to study, and these notes help to identify and explain the key differences which can be noticed by ground-level observations. Upland regions. Upland areas have a specific type of climate that is notably different from the surrounding lower levels. Temperature usually falls with height at a rate of between 5 and 10 °C per 1000 m, depending on the humidity of the air.
1 A microclimate is when the climate in a small area is different to the genera} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGood_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|Microclimate Factors. 2  1. How do some factors affect microclimate? 3  2. 1 A microclimate is when the climate in a small area is different to the genera} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGoodLong_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|Microclimate Factors.
When the climate in a small area is different to the general surroundings it is called a microclimate. There are lots of factors that can affect a microclimate... They are: Physical features: trees can provide shade, water can provide a cooling effect and hill tops can be windy. Shelter: trees, hedges, walls and buildings can provide shelter, which means they will be warmer. Buildings: buildings give off heat that has been stored during the day, they also break up any wind.
around your school. To look at the microclimate around your school you could visit different sites around the building, making note of the factors that affect the cliamte. Stand close to the school, then out in the middle of the field, stand on light and dark surfaces, notice which way you are facing. They are: Physical features: trees can provide shade, water can provide a cooling effect and hill tops can be windy. Shelter: trees, hedges, walls and buildings can provide shelter, which means they will be warmer. Buildings: buildings give off heat that has been stored during the day, they also break up any wind.