The heart is a four-chambered organ consisting of right and left halves. The upper two chambers, the left and right atria, are entry-points into the heart, while the lower two chambers, the left and right ventricles, are responsible for contractions that send the blood through the circulation. The circulation is split into the pulmonary and systemic circulation. The term systole is synonymous with contraction (movement or shortening) of a muscle. Electrical systole is the electrical activity that stimulates the cardiac muscle of the heart chambers to make them contract.
Normally, both atria contract at the same time. The term systole is synonymous with contraction (movement or shortening) of a muscle. Electrical systole is the electrical activity that stimulates the cardiac muscle of the heart chambers to make them contract.
Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs to your heart's left atrium through the pulmonary veins. As your heart's left atrium fills with blood, it contracts. This event is called atrial systole. The mitral valve located between the left atrium and left ventricle opens and closes quickly. The tricuspid valve does this between the right atrium and ventricle. The mitral valve does this between the left atrium and ventricle. The lub is the sound of the tricuspid and mitral valves closing. Each of your heart's ventricles also has an outlet valve.
Potassium is crucial to heart function, and low levels in the body -- termed hypokalemia -- lead to irregular contractions and abnormal electrocardiograms, among other problems. An electrocardiogram, or EKG, is a test that measures heart function, particularly the force and rate of contractions. Heart contractions -- also known as cardiac action potentials -- have five phases. During phase 0, heart cells become less permeable to potassium and voltage-gated sodium channels open, producing rapid depolarization and contraction.
Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart. The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer.
Electrolytes are especially important for normal contraction of skeletal and cardiac muscle fibers. Without the appropriate balance of electrolytes such as potassium and sodium, heart contractions become abnormal and the risk of heart attack increases. Heart contractions -- also known as cardiac action potentials -- have five phases. During phase 0, heart cells become less permeable to potassium and voltage-gated sodium channels open, producing rapid depolarization and contraction.
The cardiac cycle refers to a complete heartbeat from its generation to the beginning of the next beat, and so includes the diastole, the systole, and the intervening pause. The frequency of the cardiac cycle is described by the heart rate, which is typically expressed as beats per minute. The term systole is synonymous with contraction (movement or shortening) of a muscle. Electrical systole is the electrical activity that stimulates the cardiac muscle of the heart chambers to make them contract.
Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer.
Click the image to view an animation on the Electrical System. The heart’s electrical system is responsible for creating the signals that trigger the heart to beat. These signals. prompt the heart’s muscle to contract. With each contraction, blood is pumped throughout the body. The process begins in the upper chambers of the heart (atria), which pump blood into the lower chambers (ventricles). The ventricles then pump blood to the body and lungs.
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The middle layer of the heart wall is the myocardium, which is the cardiac muscle – a layer of involuntary striated muscle tissue surrounded by a framework of collagen. The myocardium is also supplied with blood vessels, and nerve fibers by way of the epicardium that help to regulate the heart rate.