Whether it’s accidental, medical, fire, or a home invasion emergency, Life Alert sends help, 24/7, even when you can’t reach a phone. When you need help, just press the button on Life Alert’s Waterproof Pendant on your neck or on your wrist. The Main Unit in your home signals the Life Alert Monitoring Center. Our dispatcher calls you through the Main Unit, and whether you can respond or not, sends the help you need fast, 24/7.
Life Alert is widely recognized as the second largest medical alert systems company in the US behind Philips Lifeline. They were founded in 1987. Life alert has 8 offices spread across the country in California, New Jersey, New York and Florida, and their headquarters is located in Encino, CA (greater Los Angeles area). Cons. 3-year Contract – Life Alert ties the user into a 3-year contract, and possibly an automatic renewal clause if the contract is not cancelled in time after the first 3 years. Users may find the contract terms inflexible in case things change.
Life Alert Emergency Response, Inc. is a nationwide American company, with headquarters in Encino, California, which provides services that help the elderly contact emergency services. The company's system consists of a main unit and a small wireless help button that is worn on the user at all times. Former Surgeon General Dr. C. Everett Koop appeared in commercials for Life Alert starting in 1992, stating that he wore one. He remained a spokesman for the company until his death in 2013. 1 Life Alert was featured on The Martha Stewart Show in a segment on tech devices for health, which aired on January 23, 2008. 2  In an episode of 30 Rock Liz Lemon answers Jack Donaghy's jab at her dying alone by showing him her Life Alert necklace.
The Life Alert system allows users to connect with their trained emergency response center dispatcher for help through pressing a help button that is worn as a necklace pendant or a wristband. The help button is wirelessly connected to a base console unit. Cons. 3-year Contract – Life Alert ties the user into a 3-year contract, and possibly an automatic renewal clause if the contract is not cancelled in time after the first 3 years. Users may find the contract terms inflexible in case things change.
Life Alert was founded by Isaac Shepher and it consists of a pendant-shaped device, worn on a necklace or wristband, and an automated dialer connected to a telephone line. 1 Life Alert was featured on The Martha Stewart Show in a segment on tech devices for health, which aired on January 23, 2008. 2  In an episode of 30 Rock Liz Lemon answers Jack Donaghy's jab at her dying alone by showing him her Life Alert necklace.
The monthly cost of the basic Life Alert system is $29.95. Additional options for CO, smoke and fire monitoring can bump the cost per month up to $49.95. Besides this monthly cost, users also need to pay for a price of $95 to $115 for installation to get started. Cons. 3-year Contract – Life Alert ties the user into a 3-year contract, and possibly an automatic renewal clause if the contract is not cancelled in time after the first 3 years. Users may find the contract terms inflexible in case things change.
If you have connected and tested your medical alert system and choose not to continue service you may call to cancel. If the equipment is returned to Alert1 within 30 days of the day you received it, you will receive a full refund for the service fees. Not applicable for monthly service plans. Alert1 does not offer a refund on pre-paid services after the first 30 days, but also does not charge a termination fee for early cancellation of your service. You may cancel your Alert1 medical alert service at any time by calling us at 1-800-693-5433 to obtain cancellation instructions and a return code.
Our dispatcher talks to you, whether you can reach a phone or not, and sends the. help you need fast, 24/7. Life Alert ® is a medical alert system specifically designed to protect seniors and all family members in a home health emergency. Life Alert ® services can help seniors remain independent and possibly avoid a retirement home by sending help fast in the event of a fall, fire, CO Gas. 
You have a medical pendant that you wear around your neck, or wrist. It is waterproof, so you can wear it in the shower, tub, or pool. If you need help, just press your panic button. A few seconds later, our Care Center begins a two-way conversation with you through the medical alarm console. If you should have a problem outside the house, anywhere from 600 to 1500ft (optional) from the home, the system will work. For better voice quality and a pendant with a speaker in it, call 888.650.6837 and ask about the new Lifewatch Alert 911, Lifewatch Cellular Medical Alarm, with GPS and Freedom Alert.
ABOUT LIFE ALERT ®. Saved from a potential catastrophe by Life Alert ® in 2013: 52,974 Lives*. Life Alert ® is a Personal Emergency Response and Home Medical Alert System company that saves lives from catastrophic outcomes, using a unique technology to provide superior home audio monitoring protection. Thanks to a greater sense of security, a 2004 ACNielsen study showed that 87% of Life Alert ® members stated that Life Alert’s protection is a main or important factor in their decision to keep on living alone at home. For safety, security and emergency protection, Life Alert ® is the choice for all ages.