Assisted Living Costs by State. The Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey is the most comprehensive study of its kind. Genworth Financial surveyed approximatey 15% of assisted living communities. The monthly cost is for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility. The costs of assisted living care depend on the level of service a resident requires. The 2010 CDC National Survey of Residential Care Facilities provides some treasured insights into the costs of assisted living, but also how facilities charge residents.
For example, Passages Malibu in California, a $15-million mansion overlooking the Pacific Ocean, reportedly costs $88,500 a month and has hosted the likes of Mel Gibson and Marc Jacobs. By comparison, Hazelden and the Betty Ford Centre offers residential rehab services from $20,000 to $32,000. Residential programs in Canada cost slightly less. The 30-day program at Ledgehill Treatment and Recovery Centre in Annapolis County, N.S., costs $12,950. Bellwood Health Services in Toronto is $17,339 for a 4.5-week program (this includes family programming and one-year of aftercare for patients).
Seniors with Alzheimer’s or dementia often require assistance with all activities of daily living and may even require one-on-one assistance for tasks. In most cases a point system or levels of care are used to breakdown the costs for these assisted living services. When a point system is used, each type of care and the frequency in which it’s provided determines the monthly cost. For example, medication management/administration once a day may cost an additional $150 per month while the same service provided three times a day may cost an additional $300 per month.
Costs you may face. The average costs for long-term care services in the United States are: $212 per day or $77,380 per year for a semi-private room in a nursing home. $240 per day or $87,600 per year for a private room in a nursing home. $3,500 per month or $42,000 per year for basic services in an assisted living facility. 
The median monthly cost in California is $3,750, with costs ranging from a low of around $1,000 a month for a resident on Supplemental Security Income (SSI) to a high of $9,000 a month. Specialized services like dementia or hospice care are more costly. No. Since residential care is a private business, providers will charge what the market will bear. However, facilities must issue 60–day notices to increase rates, but can raise charges for level of care changes immediately and provide notice within 2 working days. (See CANHR’s fact sheet on Admission Agreements.
Costs. The cost for care varies widely depending on the type of facility. The national average cost for basic services in an assisted living facility is $41,724 per year* and in a nursing home, it's $78,110 per year for a semi-private room* and $87, 235 per year for a private room.*.
Total Cost of Services. It's important to note the full cost of service, in most cases is more than the base rate you can expect to pay for assisted living. The CDC shows a breakdown of the total costs residents of residential care facilities incurred per month. The bar chart below lists the cost of services. They range from $2000-$4500 per month, but there are many residents that pay as little as $1000, but some pay over $6000 per month. The costs of assisted living care depend on the level of service a resident requires. The 2010 CDC National Survey of Residential Care Facilities provides some treasured insights into the costs of assisted living, but also how facilities charge residents.
The costs listed below are only for Medicare-certified facilities which account for more than 90% of nursing homes in the United States. Much of the data comes from the Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey which is the most comprehensive study of its kind. Genworth Financial surveyed nearly 25% of nursing homes. 
The average cost for a private one-bedroom apartment in an assisted living residence is over $3,000 per month, according to research compiled by several nonprofit senior living organizations, including the Assisted Living Federation of America. 