Hello Pragati. Dearness Allowance Means: In India, Dearness allowance (D.A.) is part of a person's salary. D.A. is calculated as a percent of the basic salary. This amount is then added to the basic salary along with house rent allowance to get the total salary. Rates vary as per rural/urban areas etc.
Dearness Allowance Means: In India, Dearness allowance (D.A.) is part of a person's salary. D.A. is calculated as a percent of the basic salary. This amount is then added to the basic salary along with house rent allowance to get the total salary. Rates vary as per rural/urban areas etc.
The Dearness Allowance (DA) is a cost of living adjustment allowance paid to Government employees, Public sector employees (PSU)and pensioners in Bangladesh and India. Dearness Allowance is calculated as a percentage of an Indian citizen's basic salary to mitigate the impact of inflation on people. Indian citizens may receive a basic salary or pension that is then supplemented by a housing or a dearness allowance, or both.
Basic is paid out every month, and is a taxable component of your salary. Dearness Allowance (DA) The Dearness Allowance is paid out to compensate for increase in the general cost of living due to inflation. DA is paid out every month. It
Best Answer: Dearness Pay is an amount where a part of allowances are treated as pay. Dearness allowance (D.A.) is part of a person's salary. D.A. is calculated as a percent of the basic salary. This amount is then added to the basic salary along with house rent allowance to get the total salary.
I think percentage of dearness allowance increased from 35%current rate of dearness allowance is 51% to 58% ... Author: Pooja 06 Aug 2012 Member Level: Gold Points: 0. Hello WaqarThanks for the information. Yes present rate of DA is 58%+7% of additional DA is also offered to the Govt. employees of Haryana.
Dearness allowance (D.A.) is part of a person's salary. It is calculated as a percent of the basic salary. This amount is then added to the basic salary along with house rent allowance to get the total salary.