Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
If a hen lays more than one egg per day, the second egg is only a membrane and has no shell. Actually, a second egg in one day will not necessarily be shell-less. Some commercial layers will occasionally lay one egg very early in the morning, and a second late in the afternoon. One of our Leghorns did this last year. If you’re thinking about getting chickens, you might be wondering how many eggs they will give you every day. This is a good question, and the truth is, it varies! I think that there are a lot of misconceptions about laying hens. People think that if they get 3 hens, they’ll have 3 eggs per day.
One per day Some hens lay only one egg every other day. As few as 80 pear year, as much as 300+ per year. Twice in the last year I had 16 h … ens lay 17 eggs in one day. Then the hen rests about 30 minutes or so before starting to make another one. In addition to resting about 1/2 hour each time an egg is laid, some hens rest about every 3 to 5 days and others rest about every 10 days. Some hens hardly rest at all. The resting times increase the total time to lay an egg.
Q. How many eggs can a hen lay each day? A. Because it takes 24-26 hours for a hen to construct an egg (adding the albumen, shell membranes and shell) and since chickens have only a single ovary and oviduct, hens are only able to lay an egg a day at the most. Some hens in backyard flocks lay eggs for 3-5 years but there isn't any research that has been done into how long they can lay before they go start 'menopause'. The oldest living chicken (at least documented) was about 13-14 years-although she was a hen, she did notlay eggs.
This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. Hens lay eggs on the same schedule as without a rooster present. If the rooster is allowed to mingle with the hens, there is a high likelihood that the eggs will be fertilized. This could result in chicks if the eggs are allowed to incubate (either in the nest under the hen or in an egg incubator).
Most hens start to lay eggs at about 6 to 8 months old. The first few eggs are usually not well formed or very small. After that they will lay according to the breed, either daily or every second day under the right conditions and with good feed. A chicken can lay up to 300 eggs a year I like to plan for 280 the life span of a commerical chicken is 30 months so the most you will receive is 700 @ 280 per year. A chicken … can live up to 7 years but her egg laying days are over at about 3 years.After 30 months the eggs become unsable. 2 people found this useful
The US Department of Agriculture reports the average hen lays about 260 eggs per year, about 5 per week. They have a lifespan of about 10 years and will usually slow egg production as they age. Many other factors can affect the bird's ability to lay, however. Then the hen rests about 30 minutes or so before starting to make another one. In addition to resting about 1/2 hour each time an egg is laid, some hens rest about every 3 to 5 days and others rest about every 10 days. Some hens hardly rest at all. The resting times increase the total time to lay an egg.
Most chickens lay about one egg per day. After the chicken gets around one year old they start to produce less eggs. Chickens do not p … roduce eggs every day. A good hen will produce 320 to 340 per yesr. A chicken can lay up to 300 eggs a year I like to plan for 280 the life span of a commerical chicken is 30 months so the most you will receive is 700 @ 280 per year. A chicken … can live up to 7 years but her egg laying days are over at about 3 years.After 30 months the eggs become unsable. 2 people found this useful
Some chickens will lay up to one egg a day, others will lay two eggs a week. It depends on the breed of chicken and how well they are taken care of. If you have seven chickens … you will normally get about 5 eggs a day. One day you might get eight eggs but you should average 5 eggs a day with normal laying hens. Then the hen rests about 30 minutes or so before starting to make another one. In addition to resting about 1/2 hour each time an egg is laid, some hens rest about every 3 to 5 days and others rest about every 10 days. Some hens hardly rest at all. The resting times increase the total time to lay an egg.