Now is the perfect time to get rid of deep-down dirt in your carpet. Find out where you can rent a BISSELL carpet cleaning rental today. Renting a BISSELL carpet cleaner starts at $24.99 for a 24 hour rental period or $34.99 for a 48 hour rental period (prices subject to change at each location). Accessories and cleaning formulas can also be purchased for an additional fee
Renting a Rug Doctor is simple, effective and affordable! You get a professional level clean for a do-it-yourself price. Rug Doctor machines are easy to use, and you can clean most rooms in as little as 20 minutes. You get professional level results in just one easy pass. Trust Rug Doctor for all your carpet and upholstery cleaning needs! 
If you rent a steam or hot water extraction carpet cleaner you may be tempted to buy the expensive branded cleaning solutions offered by the rental company but white vinegar also works quite well and for a fraction of the cost. 
Get your carpets cleaned with The Home Depot Tool Rental Center. You'll find cleaners that are easy to use from great brands like Rug Doctor and Kent that also have attachments for added cleaning for stairs, furniture and upholstery. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Online there is a site called Rugdoctor dot com and they are renting carpet cleaners in over 30 countries and 30.000 locations. Renting one costs about 25$ a day but special o … ffers can be used as well. It will depend on the area, store and the brand of carpet cleaner. They also come in different sizes that will be a factor too. However, the average is $20-$30 for 4 hours.
starting at $24.99 for 24 hours. There’s no need to hire professional carpet cleaners — do it yourself and save. Lowe’s offers BISSELL® Big Green® carpet cleaner rental at all stores. 
$34.99 for a 48 hour rental**. $3.00 for a 24 or 48 hour period, a 9 foot hose and 6 inch stain tool. And because the deep carpet cleaning technology from BISSELL Rental is designed to clean entire rooms quickly and easily, you don’t have to worry about keeping and paying for the machine for longer than you need. Cleanup isn't a hassle either, because of our two-tank system that is easy to fill and empty. Carpet cleaner rental prices are more reasonable than hiring a professional, too.***, and you don't have to worry about being home to let a professional do the job. Deep clean your carpet at a moment's notice, when you want, without any hassle
Expand. Renting a BISSELL carpet cleaner starts at $24.99 for a 24 hour rental period or $34.99 for a 48 hour rental period (prices subject to change at each location). Accessories and cleaning formulas can also be purchased for an additional fee
for rug doctors (which are great in my experience), the smaller Rug Doctor machine, also known as the Mighty Pack®, rents for $20 to $25 depending on store and market area. The Wide Track carpet cleaner rents for $25 to $29. Also, don't forget the cleaner. It will cost around $10 for a good bottle of carpet cleaner. You do not have to use theirs but make sure the brand you get says it is safe for carpet. It will depend on the area, store and the brand of carpet cleaner. They also come in different sizes that will be a factor too. However, the average is $20-$30 for 4 hours.