Skeletal muscle fibers are made when myoblasts fuse together; muscle fibers therefore have multiple nuclei (each nucleus originating from a single myoblast). The fusion of myoblasts is specific to skeletal muscle (e.g., biceps brachii) and not cardiac muscle or smooth muscle. Cardiomyocytes are the muscle fibres that form the chambers of the heart, and have a single central nucleus. Skeletal muscle fibers help support and move the body and tend to have peripheral nuclei. Smooth muscle cells control involuntary movements such as the peristalsis contractions in the oesophagus and stomach.
Some cells like the skeletal muscle is multinucleated, where the cell contains more than one nucleus, because their cell division stops after mitosis and the cell does not go … through cytokineses, thus creating more than one nucleus. 3 people found this useful. 
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated
Smooth muscle ((unlike skeletal muscle) consists of individual cells (leiomyocytes), each cell with its own nucleus. The function of smooth muscle also differs substantially from that of striated muscle. Neurotransmitter activitation of smooth muscle is fairly diffuse. In cross-sectioned smooth muscle, only a fraction of the fibers display nuclei. Recall that each smooth muscle fiber is a single cell, each with its own nucleus. In each such cell, the nucleus occupies only a small proportion of the cell's total length.
One reason is to be able to produce more protein. Protein is need for muscle contraction. Since muscle cells do not reproduce, the genes in the nuclei control the number of enzymes and proteins needed for the muscle. Cardiac and smooth muscle tissue only have one nucleus in thier cell.
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. The striated cells of cardiac and skeletal muscles are referred to as muscle fibers. Cardiomyocytes are the muscle fibres that form the chambers of the heart, and have a single central nucleus. Skeletal muscle fibers help support and move the body and tend to have peripheral nuclei. Smooth muscle cells control involuntary movements such as the peristalsis contractions in the oesophagus and stomach.
Each skeletal muscle cell is made up of many precursor cells, called myoblasts, which have fused together to form one long, thin cell with many nuclei. (To see illustrations and more detailed descriptions of muscle cells, visit this page .). That s HOW a muscle cell syncytium is made. Now let s think about WHY. You might know that skeletal muscle cells, such as the ones we use when we walk, are syncytia. Also, slime molds (a type of fungus) are syncytia. Early in its development, the fruit fly embryo is one big syncytium containing more than a thousand nuclei!