 The birth dose should be given within 12 hours of birth.  For infants, the minimum age for the final dose of hepatitis B vaccine is age 24 weeks. Note: Adults who are immunocompromised or on dialysis require a larger dose of hepatitis B vaccine. The Engerix-B dose required is 40mcg/2.0mL (use the adult 20mcg/mL formulation) on a scheduled of 0,1,2, and 6 months. For Recombivax HB, a special formulation is available. 
Primary immunization for infants (born of hepatitis B surface antigen [HBsAg]-negative or HBsAg-positive mothers), children (birth through 10 years of age), and adolescents (11 through 19 years of age) consists of a series of 3 doses (0.5 mL each) given on a 0-, 1-, and 6-month schedule. Booster Vaccinations. Whenever administration of a booster dose is appropriate, the dose of ENGERIX-B is 0.5 mL for children 10 years of age and younger and 1 mL for persons 11 years of age and older. Studies have demonstrated a substantial increase in antibody titers after booster vaccination with ENGERIX-B.
No data on single-dose hepatitis A vaccine efficacy are available for Twinrix. An alternate, accelerated 4-dose schedule is available for Twinrix; doses can be administered at 0, 7, and 21–30 days, followed by a dose at 12 months. Because hepatitis A vaccine consists of inactivated virus and hepatitis B vaccine consists of a recombinant protein, no special precautions are needed for vaccination of immunocompromised travelers.
It depends on the schedule and manufacturer of the vaccine that you are using. For children age 11 through 15 years, the 2-dose Recombivax HB volume is 1.0 mL or 10 micrograms. Otherwise the 3-dose schedule of Recombivax HB is 0.5 mL or 5 micrograms and of Engerix-B is 0.5 mL or 10 micrograms. When the hepatitis B vaccine schedule is interrupted, the vaccine series does not need to be restarted. •. If the series is interrupted after the first dose, the second dose should be given as soon as possible, and the second and third doses should be separated by an interval of at least 8 weeks.
For children and adults who complete the primary series, booster doses of vaccine are not recommended. Among adults, the most frequently reported side effects after hepatitis A vaccination are tenderness or pain at the injection site (56%–67%) and headache (14%–16%). Among children (11–25 months of age), the most common reported side effects are pain or tenderness at the injection site (32%–37%) and redness (21%–29%). Because hepatitis A vaccine consists of inactivated virus and hepatitis B vaccine consists of a recombinant protein, no special precautions are needed for vaccination of immunocompromised travelers.
At a Glance. Hepatitis B is a serious disease caused by a virus that attacks the liver. The virus, which is called hepatitis B virus (HBV), can cause lifelong infection, cirrhosis (scarring) of the liver, liver cancer, liver failure, and death. Hepatitis B vaccine is available for all age groups to prevent HBV infection.
§ Combined Hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccine. This vaccine is recommended for persons aged ≥18 years who are at increased risk for both hepatitis B virus and Hepatitis A virus infections. ¶ Recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen protein dose. ** Not applicable. †† Adult formulation administered on a 2-dose schedule. 1 Cannot be administered before age 6 weeks or after age 7 years. 2  TWINRIX®: Combined Hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccine. 3  recommended for persons aged ≥18 years who are at increased risk for both Hepatitis A virus and HBV
The dose is 40 µg/1.0 mL and it is given on a schedule of 0, 1, and 6 months.*Birth dose administered prior to discharge from the newborn nursery. † The schedule for administering hepatitis B vaccine is flexible and can vary. Note: For adult dialysis patients, the Engerix-B dose required is 40 µg/2.0 mL (use the adult 20 µg/1.0 mL formu-lation) on a schedule of 0, 1, 2, and 6 months. For Recombivax HB, a special formulation for dialysis patients is available