Click Enabled, and then select All drives in the Turn off Autoplay on box to disable Autorun on all drives. Restart your computer. 3] Registry Editor. The same can also be achieved by editing the Registry.
To disable or enable Autorun automatically, click the appropriate Fix this problem link. Then, click Run in the File Download dialog box and follow the steps in this wizard. Note these wizards may be in English only; however, these automatic fixes also work for other language versions of Windows.
You can set AutoPlay to open different kinds of content, such as photos, music, and video on different kinds of media, such as drives, CDs, or DVDs. For example, you can use AutoPlay to select an app that will automatically open photos on a removable drive when you plug it into your PC.
1 Note In Windows 2000, the policy setting is named Disable Autoplay. 2  Click Enabled, and then select All drives in the Turn off Autoplay box to disable Autorun on all drives. 3  Click OK to close the Turn off Autoplay Properties dialog box.
Open Control Panel\All Control Panel Items\AutoPlay and set the options as per your preferences. 2] Using Group Policy. Type gpedit.msc. In the RHS Details pane, double-click Turn off Autoplay to open the Properties box. This policy setting allows you to turn off the Autoplay feature.
1 Under Computer Configuration, expand Administrative Templates, expand Windows Components, and then click Autoplay Policies. 2  In the Details pane, double-click Turn off Autoplay. 3  Click Enabled, and then select All drives in the Turn off Autoplay box to disable Autorun on all drives.
You can also disable autoplay videos on the desktop should you find it an interruption to have videos play as you leisurely scroll down your Facebook feed. To do so, click on the downward arrow in the upper-right corner and select Settings from the drop-down menu.
1 In the Settings pane, right-click Turn off Autoplay, and then click Properties. 2  Note In Windows 2000, the policy setting is named Disable Autoplay. 3  Click Enabled, and then select All drives in the Turn off Autoplay box to disable Autorun on all drives. 4  Click OK to close the Turn off Autoplay Properties dialog box.
AutoPlay lets you choose an action for different kinds of media when you plug in a device, insert media, or receive content from another person using Tap and Send. You can set AutoPlay to open different kinds of content, such as photos, music, and video on different kinds of media, such as drives, CDs, or DVDs.