In no tissue is the extracellular matrix so well defined-or so easily studied-as in connective tissue, where the extracellular matrix is frequently more plentiful than the cells. Found throughout your body, connective tissue serves as the scaffolding for all other tissues. 
extracellular matrix, a substance containing collagen, elastin, proteoglycans, glycosaminoglycans, and fluid, produced by cells and in which the cells are embedded. The matrix secreted by chondroblasts, for example, is responsible for the properties of cartilage. extracellular matrix (eksˈ·tr ·selˑ·y ·ler māˑ·triks) , n substance produced by cells and secreted into the environment in which the cells are embedded; contains collagen, proteoglycans, glycosaminoglycans, and fluid; can influence the behavior of the cells. Also called. ECM.
Extracellular matrix. In biology, the extracellular matrix is the extracellular part of animal tissue that usually provides structural support to the animal cells in addition to performing various other important functions. The extracellular matrix is the defining feature of connective tissue in animals. Extracellular matrix includes the interstitial matrix and the basement membrane. Interstitial matrix is present between various animal cells.
In biology, the extracellular matrix (ECM) is a collection of extracellular molecules secreted by cells that provides structural and biochemical support to the surrounding cells. Interstitial matrix is present between various animal cells (i.e., in the intercellular spaces). Gels of polysaccharides and fibrous proteins fill the interstitial space and act as a compression buffer against the stress placed on the ECM.
Extracellular matrix. Definition. noun, plural: extracellular matrices. The non-cellular portion of a tissue produced and secreted by cells and mainly for providing support. Supplement. The extracellular matrix is the non-cellular portion of a tissue. It is a collection of extracellular material produced and secreted by cells into the surrounding medium. The main function of the extracellular matrix is to provide structural and biochemical support to the surrounding cell
The macromolecules that constitute the extracellular matrix are mainly produced locally by cells in the matrix. As we discuss later, these cells also help to organize the matrix: the orientation of the cytoskeleton inside the cell can control the orientation of the matrix produced outside. Collagens Are the Major Proteins of the Extracellular Matrix. The collagens are a family of fibrous proteins found in all multicellular animals. They are secreted by connective tissue cells, as well as by a variety of other cell types.
The animal extracellular matrix includes the interstitial matrix and the basement membrane. Interstitial matrix is present between various animal cells (i.e., in the intercellular spaces). Gels of polysaccharides and fibrous proteins fill the interstitial space and act as a compression buffer against the stress placed on the ECM.
Overview. The Extracellular Matrix (ECM) is a complex structural system that supports and protects animal cells, and is often referred to as the connective tissue. The meshlike structure of the ECM is composed of mainly from collagen proteins connected to glycoprotein. The Extracellular Matrix is composed of many different parts such as the cell's plasma membrane, cytoplasm, microfilaments, and receptor proteins (integrin) but is mainly made up of Glycoproteins (made of a core protein with carbohydrate chains).
The extracellular matrix is a meshwork of proteins and carbohydrates that binds cells together or divides one tissue from another. Collagens are the principal proteins of the extracellular matrix. They are structural proteins that provide tissues with strength and flexibility, and serve other essential roles as well. They are the most abundant proteins found in many vertebrates.