Ventricles contain more muscle mass than the atria, therefore the QRS complex is considerably larger than the P wave. The QRS complex is often used to determine the axis of the electrocardiogram, although it is also possible to determine a separate P wave axis. Not every QRS complex contains a Q wave, an R wave, and an S wave. By convention, any combination of these waves can be referred to as a QRS complex. However, correct interpretation of difficult ECGs requires exact labeling of the various waves.
QRS complex, QRS wave. a group of waves depicted on an electrocardiogram; it actually consists of three distinct waves created by the passage of the cardiac electrical impulse through the ventricles and occurs at the beginning of each contraction of the ventricles.
QRS complex a group of waves seen on an electrocardiogram, representing ventricular depolarization. Called also QRS wave. It actually consists of three distinct waves created by the passage of the cardiac electrical impulse through the ventricles and occurs at the beginning of each ventricular contraction. a group of waves depicted on an electrocardiogram; it actually consists of three distinct waves created by the passage of the cardiac electrical impulse through the ventricles and occurs at the beginning of each contraction of the ventricles.
QRS Complex. The QRS represents the simultaneous activation of the right and left ventricles, although most of the QRS waveform is derived from the larger left ventricular musculature. 1  QRS duration ≤ 0.10 sec. 2  QRS amplitude is quite variable from lead to lead and from person to person. 3  Two determinates of QRS voltages are: It is important to remember that the P wave represents the sequential activation of the right and left atria, and it is common to see notched or biphasic P waves of right and left atrial activation. 1  Frontal plane P wave axis: 0° to +75°. 2  May see notched P waves in frontal plane.
The QRS complex is a name for the combination of three of the graphical deflections seen on a typical electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) . It is usually the central and most visually obvious part of the tracing. It corresponds to the depolarization of the right and left ventricles of the human heart. Not every QRS complex contains a Q wave, an R wave, and an S wave. By convention, any combination of these waves can be referred to as a QRS complex. However, correct interpretation of difficult ECGs requires exact labeling of the various waves.
Medical Definition of QRS COMPLEX. : the series of deflections in an electrocardiogram that represent electrical activity generated by ventricular depolarization prior to contraction of the ventricles—compare p wave, t wave. What made you want to look up QRS complex?
The QRS complex is a specific sequence of deflections seen on the printout of an ECG, representing the depolarization of the right and left ventricles of the heart. Cardiac arrhythmias can be diagnosed by analyzing the QRS complex on an ECG. High blood pressure may cause left ventricular hypertrophy, which can be diagnosed by analyzing the QRS complex on an ECG. An EKG is often used to continuously monitor the heart rate and rhythm of a critically ill patient in order to catch abnormalities quickly. An ECG printout shows five deflections or waves.
QRS-the complex represents the depolarization of the ventricles. This is followed by an isoelectric segment. T wave-this represents ventricular repolarization. Atrial Contraction-the atria mechanically contract starting at the beginning of the P wave, until the beginning of the QRS complex. The Wave Form. P wave-the arch preceding the QRS complex. Q wave-the first negative (downward) deflection of the complex. In some leads, it will not be present. In some cases, the complex begins with an R wave. R wave-the first positive (upward) deflection of the QRS complex. It will sometimes be preceded by a Q wave