A contract is a legally enforceable promise or undertaking that something will or will not occur. The word promise can be used as a legal synonym for contract, although care is required as a promise may not have the full standing of a contract, as when it is an agreement without consideration. A mistake is an incorrect understanding by one or more parties to a contract and may be used as grounds to invalidate the agreement. Common law has identified three different types of mistake in contract: common mistake, mutual mistake, and unilateral mistake.
Full Definition of CONTRACTUAL. : of, relating to, or constituting a contract. — con·trac·tu·al·ly adverb. See contractual defined for English-language learners. See contractual defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Agreements to agree An agreement to agree is not a contract. This type of agreement is frequently employed in industries that require long-term contracts in order to ensure a constant source of supplies and outlet of production. Contractual liability may be voluntarily discharged by the agreement of the parties, by estoppel, and by the cancellation, intentional destruction, or surrender of a contract under seal with intent to discharge the duty.
The implications of using either or both of the phrases arising out of and relating to is a topic of perennial interest. (For example, see this post, this post, and this post .) So today an article in Corporate Counsel entitled 3 Pitfalls in Contractual Choice-of-Law Provisions (here) caught my eye. You could articulate this meaning by using arising out of the subject matter of this agreement, but you would be trading one kind of vagueness for another—there’s no shortage of litigation as to what the subject matter of this agreement means for purposes of a given contract.
The phrase arising out of or relating to is a fixture of contracts. It’s primarily associated with governing-law provisions and arbitration provisions. Contracts routinely state—the wording varies—that the governing law of the contract covers all matters “arising out of or relating to” that contract. If you elect to stick with arising out of or relating to rather than articulating clearly your intended meaning, you’re opting for deficient contract language. You’re relying on courts to breathe meaning into your contract language rather than electing to establish that meaning yourself. By the way, another possible reason for using arising out of or relating to is that you want to capture not just the subject matter of the contract but also other activities
Instead of establishing an unduly narrow set—the contract—and relying on a vague standard to reach beyond it, you establish the relevant set—activities under the contract. But plenty of courts have had occasion to assess the meaning of arising out of or relating to in the context of arbitration provisions. If you elect to stick with arising out of or relating to rather than articulating clearly your intended meaning, you’re opting for deficient contract language. You’re relying on courts to breathe meaning into your contract language rather than electing to establish that meaning yourself. By the way, another possible reason for using arising out of or relating to is that you want to capture not just the subject matter of the contract but also other activitie
No matter what type of business you run, having an understanding of contract law is a key to creating sound business agreements that will be legally enforceable in the event that a dispute arises. Following is a discussion of the law of contracts. Contract Defined. A contract is a legally enforceable agreement between two or more parties that creates an obligation to do or not do particular things. The term party can mean an individual person, company, or corporation. More on creation of a contract follows below. 
An agreement to purchase marijuana, for example, is not a legal contract. Because the subject matter of the agreement is illegal, the contract is not enforceable and the parties have no legal remedies for breach. Similarly, a contract with a minor is not legally enforceable. 
Contracts can be written, oral or both. The law says that some contracts must be in writing, eg buying or selling a house or land. Most of the time contracts do not have to be written down to be legally binding. If a contract is legally binding it means it is enforceable. Most of the everyday contracts we make are not written down, for example, buying a movie ticket, buying food, or going to the doctor. The law says to make a legally binding contract you need: 1  Agreement-an offer is made by one person and freely accepted by another. 2  Consideration-this means that you and each person entering the contract must promise to do something or give something of value (money, right or benefit) to each other.