Posted on. (Answer #1). Metalloids are groups of elements in the periodic table that have properties between the metals and the non-metals which apparently cannot be or hardly classified as either metal or non-metal. The elements included in this group are Boron (B), Silicon (S), Germanium (Ge), Arsenic (As), Antimony (Sb) and Tellurium (Te). 
The line begins at boron (B) and extends down to polonium (Po). Elements to the left of the line are considered metals. Elements just to the right of the line exhibit properties of both metals and nonmetals and are termed metalloids or semimetals. Elements to the far right of the periodic table are nonmetals. The exception is hydrogen (H), the first element on the periodic table. Elements in the periodic table are grouped as metals, metalloids or semimetals, and nonmetals. The metalloids separate the metals and nonmetals on a periodic table. Also, many periodic table have a stair-step line on the table identifying the element groups
The line that separates metalloids from nonmetals in the periodic table is referred to as the amphoteric line.[citation needed] There is no rigorous definition of the term, but the following properties are usually considered characteristic of metalloids: metalloids often form amphoteric oxides. Best Answer: non-metals do not conduct electricty at all metals-conduct is well metalloid is more complicated: Metalloid is a term used in chemistry when classifying the chemical elements. The term semimetal is sometimes used synonymously, but this is sometimes defined differently.
The staircase-shaped line is a typical example of the arbitrary metal–nonmetal dividing line found on some periodic tables. A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. 
Metal elements are usually good conductors of both electricity and heat. The dividing line between metals and non-metals is not hard and fast, thus the distinction between Post-transition metals and Metalloids is represented differently on different versions of the Periodic Table. 
Metalloids Metalloids are. elements whose properties are intermediate between those of metals and solid nonmetals. Such as silicon and boron. Metals Non-Metals An element, compound, or alloy that is good conductor of both electricity and heat. They are also solids. Metals are malleable, ductile and shiny. They consist of close-packed atoms. They are gases. Examples: oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, & carbon The difference between metalloids, metals and non metals is that they all have different types of properties. Metals are solids, non metals are gasses and metalloids are in between metals and non metals.
Metalloid is a term used in chemistry when classifying the chemical elements. On the basis of their general physical and chemical properties, nearly every element in the periodic table can be termed either a metal or a nonmetal-however a few elements with intermediate properties are referred to as metalloids. 
These elements and those to the right of them are nonmetals. Elements just to the left of the line may be termed metalloids or semimetals and have properties intermediate between those of the metals and nonmetals. The physical and chemical properties of the metals and nonmetals may be used to tell them apart. Metal Physical Properties. 1  lustrous (shiny)
Scandium is a metal because it is in the transition metals section of the Periodic Table. The nonmetals are located near the right of the periodic table and the metalloids are … right next to them between the metal and nonmetals. There are only few metalloids. 