Article Body. More than any other illness, rhinoviruses (rhin means “nose”) are associated with the common cold. Rhinoviruses may also cause some sore throats, ear infections, sinus infections, and to a lesser degree, pneumonia and bronchiolitis (infection of the small breathing passages of the lungs). Rhinoviruses are spread easily through person-to-person contact. When a child with a rhinovirus infection has a runny nose, nasal secretions get onto her hands and from there onto tables, toys, and other surfaces.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rhinoviruses (from the Greek (gen.) nose) are the most common viral infectious agents in humans and are the predominant cause of the common cold. Rhinovirus infection proliferates in temperatures between 33–35 °C (91–95 °F), the temperatures found in the nose. Rhinoviruses comprise three species in the genus Enterovirus of the Picornaviridae family of viruses. There are 99 recognized types of human rhinoviruses that differ according to their surface proteins. They are lytic in nature and are among the smallest viruses, with diameters of about 30 nanometers
Rhinovirus: A class of viruses commonly causing the common cold. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Rhinovirus is available below. 
Medical Definition of RHINOVIRUS. : any of a genus (Rhinovirus) of single-stranded RNA viruses of the family Picornaviridae including two species (Human rhinovirus A and Human rhinovirus B) having numerous serotypes that affect humans causing respiratory infections including the common cold. Definition of RHINOVIRUS. : any of a genus (Rhinovirus) of picornaviruses including two (species Human rhinovirus A and Human rhinovirus B) having numerous serotypes causing respiratory infections (as the common cold) in humans. ADVERTISEMENT.
One such type of virus is the rhinovirus. Rhinoviruses (from the Greek word rhin, meaning nose) are the cause of the common cold in an estimated 30 to 35 percent of all adults. More than 110 distinct rhinovirus types have been identified. This virus belongs to the Picornaviridae family of viruses. A rhinovirus is a very small RNA virus. Rhinovirus types are most active in early fall, spring, and summer. They can live up to 3 hours on your skin.
Approach Considerations. Rhinovirus (RV) infections are predominantly mild and self-limited; thus, treatment is generally focused on symptomatic relief and prevention of person-to-person spread and complications. The mainstays of therapy include rest, hydration, antihistamines, and nasal decongestants. 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. The “rhino” in rhinovirus is derived from the Greek for “nose” and these viruses are the most common infective virus to cause the common cold in humans. Rhinovirus describes species that belongs to the enterovirus genus of the family Picornaviridae. Other enteroviruses belonging to Picornaviridae include poliovirus and Coxsackie A virus. Rhinovirus is one of the smallest types of virus, with a diameter of around 30 nanometers. Most other viruses such as vaccinia or smallpox are around ten times this size, with diameters of about 300 nanometers.