(The term tone is used by some British writers in their descriptions of intonation, but this is to refer to the pitch movement found on the nucleus or tonic syllable in an intonation unit – see Intonation in English: British Analyses of English Intonation, below). Mandarin Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that pitch contours within a word distinguish the word from other words with the same vowels and consonants. Nevertheless, Mandarin also has intonation patterns—patterns of pitch throughout the phrase or sentence—that indicate the nature of the sentence as a whole.
Crystal for example says that ...intonation is not a single system of contours and levels, but the product of the interaction of features from different prosodic systems – tone, pitch-range, loudness, rhythmicality and tempo in particular.. Mandarin Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that pitch contours within a word distinguish the word from other words with the same vowels and consonants. Nevertheless, Mandarin also has intonation patterns—patterns of pitch throughout the phrase or sentence—that indicate the nature of the sentence as a whole.
Although intonation is primarily a matter of pitch variation, it is important to be aware that functions attributed to intonation such as the expression of attitudes and emotions, or highlighting aspects of grammatical structure, almost always involve concomitant variation in other prosodic features. Mandarin Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that pitch contours within a word distinguish the word from other words with the same vowels and consonants. Nevertheless, Mandarin also has intonation patterns—patterns of pitch throughout the phrase or sentence—that indicate the nature of the sentence as a whole.
Confidence votes 59. Intonation is a word used to refer to how a sentence sounds. How a sentence sounds if it's a question sounds different from how a sentence sounds if it's a statement. If you say a sentence out loud, first as a question and then as a statement, you'll hear the difference in sound. That is intonation. Falling intonation is when the pitch of a voice drastically  plummets. This can occur because of what the speaker is saying or  it may happen because of where the speaker is … from due to differing  pitch accents in different areas. + 7 others found this useful.
Intonation refers to the instrument being in tune along the fretboard. An easy way to check the basic intonation of a guitar is to hit a 12th fret harmonic and compare the pitch with a note fretted at the 12th fret. If the fretted note is sharp, the string needs to be lengthened. If the fretted note is flat, the string needs to be shortened. intonation refers to your guitar being in tune at various points across the fretboard. To tell if your guitar has correct intonation, check the tuning at various points on the fretboard, most commonly the 12th fret, to make sure notes are in tune there as well as with open strings.
You can tell when your intonation is out if an open string harmonic at the 12th fret (lightly touch string at the 12th fret and pluck it) and the fretted note one octave higher (hold the string down at the 12th fret and pluck it) are not the same. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of intonation is the way the pitch of your voice goes up and down as you talk or reciting something by singing it. 1  An example of intonation is the way your voice raises in pitch at the end of a question. 2  An example oif intonation is the Gregorian chant. 1 An example of intonation is the way your voice raises in pitch at the end of a question.
Intonation, in music, is a musician's realization of pitch accuracy, or the pitch accuracy of a musical instrument. Intonation may be flat, sharp, or both, successively or simultaneously.