Multicellular organisms have more than one cell. So being  multicellular and heterotroph means that th … e organism is  multicelled and depends on other organisms to survive. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Multicellular is defined as being composed of several or many cells. In genetics, organisms that are made up of various cells are called multicellular organisms.
Multicellular. Definition. adjective. Having or consisting of many cells or more than one cell to perform all vital functions. Supplement. Examples of organisms that are multicellular are humans, animals and plants. Word origin: L, comb. form of multus much, many + NL cellulāris, equiv. to cellul(a) live cell
Simple organisms may be unicellular, consisting of just one cell, while more complex organisms are multicellular. There are two types of cell division. Mitosis is used for growth and repair and produces diploid cells identical to each other and the parent cell. Multicellular organisms need specialised organ systems, whereas all the life processes in a unicellular organism take place in that one cell. Multicellular organisms need organ systems to carry out functions such as:
An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism. Most unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. 
Organisms that consist of more than one cell are known as multicellular organisms. Multicellular organisms are made up of more than one cell. These cells identify and attach to each other to form a multicellular organism. Most of the multicellular organisms are visible to the naked eye. Unicellular eukaryotic organisms-these organisms are unicellular and are eukaryotes. They have membrane bound true nucleus and other membrane bound organelles. These are mainly free living or aquatic parasites like the protozoans, some fungi and algae or some protists.
A heterotroph is an organism that requires other organism to  survive. Multicellular organisms have more than one cell. So being  multicellular and heterotroph means that th … e organism is  multicelled and depends on other organisms to survive. JD Heyl. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Multicellular is defined as being composed of several or many cells. In genetics, organisms that are made up of various cells are called multicellular organisms.
Unicellular. Definition. adjective. (1) Having or consisting of only one cell. (2) Pertaining to an organism whose functions are all carried out within one cell. Supplement. Examples of organisms that are unicellular are microorganisms such as bacteria and some algae such as diatoms. Word origin: L ūni-comb. form of ūnus one + NL cellulāris, equiv. to cellul(a) live cell. Related forms: unicellularity (noun). Compare: multicellular
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: an organism is classified as unicellular when it is composed of only one cell. the cell itself does not differentiate. it can only reproduce via mitosis. the organism does not have organ systems. examples of these organisms are amoeba, bacteria, stentor, paramecium, euglena, and most protists. an organism is classified as multicellular when it is composed of many cells. each cell differentiate into specialized cell. the organism has organ systems. examples of these organisms are animals, plants, some protists, algae, and fungi. 
Reproduction in multicelluar organism is by sexual means. Anatomy of multicellular organisms is complex due the various types of cells control the functioning of the organism. The process of cell division is well coordinated in mutlicellular organisms to prevent abnormal cell division and cell growth. Unicellular eukaryotic organisms-these organisms are unicellular and are eukaryotes. They have membrane bound true nucleus and other membrane bound organelles. These are mainly free living or aquatic parasites like the protozoans, some fungi and algae or some protists.