You never have to take money out of your Roth IRA at 70 1/2, like Traditional IRA owners do. But once you inherit a Roth IRA, there are required minimum distribution that follow the same rules. The only exception to taking required minimum distributions from a Roth is if you're a spouse. Then, at 59 1/2, when the penalty period expires--there's no penalty once you hit 59 1/2--then he or she can do the rollover into their own IRA and they don't have to take required distributions until they turn 70 1/2.
The more money you take out of an inherited IRA, the more tax you pay. If you inherit an IRA from your spouse, you can keep money in the account until you retire. If you inherit from anyone else, you must make annual minimum withdrawals and pay tax on them until the account is empty. Withdrawals. There's nothing special about the money you withdraw from your inherited IRA. It's income, like wages or commissions, so you lump your withdrawals in with your other income and calculate tax on the total, based on your income tax bracket.
Calculate your RMD amount. Use our RMD Calculator to see the amount of your RMD based on your age, your account balance, your beneficiary, and other factors. If you have multiple IRAs, you must calculate each account individually, but you can take your total RMD amount from one account or several. Keep in mind: 1  You need to take a distribution regardless of your age. 2  Generally, you need to take distributions over your lifetime or within five years after the original account holder passed away. 3  With an Inherited Traditional IRA, you will pay taxes on distributions. 4  With an Inherited Roth IRA, you will not
Also, as a non-spouse beneficiary, you do not have the option of rolling the assets into your own IRA. If you inherit IRA assets from someone other than your spouse, you generally have a few options to consider. Transfer the assets to an inherited IRA beneficiary distribution account (IRA BDA). When you transfer assets from a traditional IRA into an IRA beneficiary distribution account (inherited IRA, or IRA BDA), the rules for Minimum Required Distributions, or MRDs still apply. If the original IRA owner died after reaching age 70 1/2, then you must continue to take annual MRDs from your inherited IRA. You may elect to calculate those MRDs by using your own age (see above) or by using the deceased IRA owner's age in his or her year of death.
So, if they are under 59 1/2, they should maintain it as an inherited IRA--only a spouse has that option. The spouse can also do a rollover. Most people will recommend, including myself, to do the spousal rollover, but only if the spouse is 59 1/2 or older. Then, at 59 1/2, when the penalty period expires--there's no penalty once you hit 59 1/2--then he or she can do the rollover into their own IRA and they don't have to take required distributions until they turn 70 1/2.
All the normal IRA rules will apply — whether Roth or traditional. If you continue to own the account as a beneficiary, the rules will be mostly the same, with a few important exceptions. No 10% Penalty. First, you can take distributions from the account without being subject to the 10% penalty, regardless of your age. 
An inherited individual retirement account lies at the tricky 3-way intersection of estate planning, financial planning and tax planning. With do-overs granted exclusively by IRS fiat, 1 wrong decision can lead to expensive consequences. 
2. Use our RMD Calculator to see the amount of your RMD based on your age, your account balance, your beneficiary, and other factors. If you have multiple IRAs, you must calculate each account individually, but you can take your total RMD amount from one account or several. Keep in mind: 1  You need to take a distribution regardless of your age. 2  Generally, you need to take distributions over your lifetime or within five years after the original account holder passed away. 3  With an Inherited Traditional IRA, you will pay taxes on distributions. 4  With an Inherited Roth IRA, you will not
They do not have to take lifetime distributions from Roth IRAs, but after-death distributions (below) are required. They can always withdraw more than the minimum amount from your IRA or plan in any year, but if they withdraw less than the required minimum, they will be subject to a federal penalty. The IRS penalty is an excise tax equal to 50% of the amount they should have withdrawn, but did not. 
If you inherit IRA assets from someone other than your spouse, you generally have two options from which to choose: direct transfer of the IRA to a special type of IRA called an inherited IRA, or take cash distributions as taxable income. An inherited IRA is a special type of IRA which is commonly called a Beneficiary Distribution Account IRA, or BDA IRA. When you establish an inherited IRA, it's important that the IRA custodian registers the account properly. The account registration should include: