1 The pituitary, pineal and parathyroid glands are neuroendocrine glands. 2  The thyroid gland is not a neuroendocrine gland, but it contains scattered neuroendocrine cells known as C cells. 3  The adrenal glands are made up of a non-neuroendocrine area called the cortex, and a central neuroendocrine gland called the medulla. 1 Neuroendocrine cells in the digestive system regulate intestinal movements and the release of digestive enzymes. 2  Neuroendocrine cells in the respiratory system are believed to play a role in the developmental stages of the respiratory organs. 3  They also regulate respiratory function.
Anatomy and physiology of the neuroendocrine system. The neuroendocrine system is made up of a network of cells that are distributed throughout the body. The word neuroendocrine refers to 2 qualities of these cells: they have a similar structure to nerve cells (neurons) and produce hormones like endocrine cells. 1 Neuroendocrine cells in the digestive system regulate intestinal movements and the release of digestive enzymes. 2  Neuroendocrine cells in the respiratory system are believed to play a role in the developmental stages of the respiratory organs. 3  They also regulate respiratory function.
Neuroendocrine tumors in the pancreas are known as islet cell carcinomas or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Islet cell tumors are not the same as carcinoid tumors. They have a different prognosis (course of disease and outlook) and respond differently to treatment. Carcinoid tumors start from cells of the diffuse neuroendocrine system. This system consists of cells that are like nerve cells in certain ways and like hormone-making endocrine cells in other ways.
The neuroendocrine system. The neuroendocrine system is made up of nerve and gland cells. It makes hormones and releases them into the bloodstream. Neuro means nerve and endocrine means the cells of the endocrine system. The endocrine system is a network of glands and organs in the body that produce hormones. It is also called the hormone system. Generally speaking, hormones control how our bodies work.
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs), also called pancreatic endocrine tumors (PETs) or islet cell tumors arise out of the endocrine pancreas. Since this is the section of the pancreas that makes and secretes hormones, the tumors can be hormone producing or asymptomatic (they do not product hormones). 
The endocrine system is made up of pituitary, pineal, thyroid, parathyroid and adrenal glands, pancreatic islet cells (also known as islets of Langerhans) and the ovaries or testicles. 1  The pituitary, pineal and parathyroid glands are neuroendocrine glands. 1 Neuroendocrine cells in the digestive system regulate intestinal movements and the release of digestive enzymes. 2  Neuroendocrine cells in the respiratory system are believed to play a role in the developmental stages of the respiratory organs. 3  They also regulate respiratory function.
Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors form in hormone-making cells (islet cells) of the pancreas. The pancreas is a gland about 6 inches long that is shaped like a thin pear lying on its side. The wider end of the pancreas is called the head, the middle section is called the body, and the narrow end is called the tail. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). When pancreatic NETs are malignant, they are called pancreatic endocrine cancer or islet cell carcinoma. Pancreatic NETs are much less common than pancreatic exocrine tumors and have a better prognosis.
The major endocrine glands include the pineal gland, pituitary gland, pancreas, ovaries, testes, thyroid gland, parathyroid gland, hypothalamus, gastrointestinal tract and adrenal glands. The endocrine system is in contrast to the exocrine system, which secretes its hormones using ducts. For example the kidney secretes endocrine hormones such as erythropoietin and renin. A number of glands that signal each other in sequence are usually referred to as an axis, for example, the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
1 They cluster together in many small groups (islets) throughout the pancreas. 2  Endocrine pancreas cells are also called islet cells or islets of Langerhans. 3  Tumors that form in islet cells are called islet cell tumors, pancreatic endocrine tumors, or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pancreatic NETs). Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) may be benign (not cancer) or malignant (cancer). When pancreatic NETs are malignant, they are called pancreatic endocrine cancer or islet cell carcinoma. Pancreatic NETs are much less common than pancreatic exocrine tumors and have a better prognosis.
A major organ of the endocrine system, the anterior pituitary (also called the adenohypophysis or pars anterior), is the glandular, anterior lobe that together with the posterior lobe (posterior pituitary, or the neurohypophysis) makes up the pituitary gland (hypophysis). 