Distances between Posts. As a general rule, posts should be spaced 20 feet apart to support polypropylene deer fencing and 15 feet apart to support metal hexagrid deer fencing. There are exceptions (as when trees are being used as posts, see below), and the distances involved should not be regarded as iron-clad.
Although it’s really up to you, the commonly accepted distance between electric fence posts is 12 feet. However, others recommend anywhere between 15 feet and 30 feet. This way, it will be less likely to sag. If you use wooden posts, they should have insulators attached. If your electric fence posts are plastic horse posts, ensure they’re fully pressed into the ground.
Wood posts from 5.5 to 8.5 feet long and from 2.5 to 8 inches or larger diameter are readily available. The larger the top diameter, the stronger the post. Line posts can be as small as 2.5 inches, but larger ones will provide for a stronger, more durable fence. Corner and gate posts should have a top diameter of at least 8 inches. Brace posts should be 5 inches or more in diameter.
Determine Spacing for Fence Posts. Decide how far apart you’d like to set the fence posts. Typically, fence posts are spaced between six and eight feet apart. The corner posts are set first. To align all of the posts in between, stretch a line from each corner post to work as your guide. Mark the exact position where you’d like each post hole dug
When I use tape to keep it nice and straight I go about 10-12 feet apart. For the wire about 18-20 feet. It is really a personal preference and how much money you have available to work with the fencing. My Hotwire is always 3 - 4 strands and no less that 4 1/2 to 5 feet high. 
HI, we put 10 ft 5-6 inch posts in. We put them every 8 feet and brace all corners. Make sure you put the posts acutally 2 inches further than counting so the wood will line up and not over lap when nailing up the boards. Its all up to you an how your horses are with fencing/. I chose 8 ft apart as I take in WIld MUstangs and it must be tough fencing. Goodluck. If you can get away with 10 spacing it will save you money in posts and time to set less posts as well. (When I say I 'would' -- part of my fence out back actually IS that way). As far as installing the field fencing... I am pretty sure that the old stuff around most of our property is on posts that are 10-12' apart, but only every 3rd post is wood -- the intervening ones are t-posts.
When you’re installing electric fence posts, one thing you need to know is how far apart to place your fence posts. This is something that will depend on the type of fence you’re installing and whether it’s permanent or temporary. This way, it will be less likely to sag. If you use wooden posts, they should have insulators attached. If your electric fence posts are plastic horse posts, ensure they’re fully pressed into the ground.
I heard 50’ with some fencing. Standard post spacing for horse fencing is 8', 10' or 12'. For smaller areas, high-traffic areas or round pens, we recommend 8'. Medium pastures should be spaced at 10', and larger pastures can be spaced at 12'. PVC post spacing must be 8' on center, while mesh fence is best at 8' or 10'. Wider post spacing can create sagging with continuously run fence rails. With horses, it is better to keep an injury at bay, rather than chancing it