A: The taurine in Red Bull Energy Drink is a purely synthetic substance produced by pharmaceutical companies and is not derived from animals or animal materials. All ingredients for Red Bull Energy Drink are synthetically produced by pharmaceutical companies. This guarantees the highest quality. 
Taurine is named after the Latin taurus (a cognate of the Greek ταῦρος) which means bull or ox, as it was first isolated from ox bile in 1827 by German scientists Friedrich Tiedemann and Leopold Gmelin. Taurine is a major constituent of bile and can be found in the large intestine and in the tissues of many animals, including humans. Mammalian taurine synthesis occurs in the pancreas via the cysteine sulfinic acid pathway.
In RedBull and other energy drinks, however, the taurine is a synthetic element. There is no truth to the myth that taurine is an extract from a bull's testicles, although this rumor has been circulating for years. 
Contrary to popular belief, taurine is not derived from bull’s testicles although it can be found in the bile of a bull as well as in female cattle. Taurine is also commonly found in food sources such as meat and fish, but is often synthetically made for commercial products like energy drinks and supplements. Taurine is safe to consume and can improve the health of those with heart problems and other medical conditions. Those who drink energy drinks with taurine should be aware that the taurine in those drinks may be synthetic and may not offer all of the benefits of taurine found in food sources or in the human body.
No. Taurine is a naturally occurring aminoethanesulfonic acid. It can be found in the bile and tissues of many animals, including humans. The name taurine comes from the latin … Taurus meaning an ox or bull. This name was chosen as taurine was first discovered in ox bile in 1827. But don't panic that you may be drinking ox bile when you purchase an energy drink, the taurine used in energy drinks is a synthetic. Taurine is a naturally occurring aminoethanesulfonic acid. It can be found in the bile and tissues of many animals, including humans. The name taurine comes from the latin Taurus meaning an ox or bull. This name was chosen as taurine was first discovered in ox bile in 1827
Report Abuse. You're right Taurine is a Latin word for bull or ox. It is mostly found in seaweed, meat and animal source foods, excluding milk products, in places such as the brain, retina, muscle, and heart. In recent years, taurine has become a common ingredient in energy drinks. Taurine is often used in combination with bodybuilding supplements such as creatine and anabolic steroids, partly due to recent findings in mice that taurine alleviates muscle fatigue in strenuous workouts and raises exercise capacity.
(August 2014). Taurine (/ˈtɔːriːn/), or 2-aminoethanesulfonic acid, is an organic acid widely distributed in animal tissues. It is a major constituent of bile and can be found in the large intestine, and accounts for up to 0.1% of total human body weight. Taurine has many fundamental biological roles, such as conjugation of bile acids, antioxidation, osmoregulation, membrane stabilization, and modulation of calcium signaling. Taurine is a major constituent of bile and can be found in the large intestine and in the tissues of many animals, including humans. Mammalian taurine synthesis occurs in the pancreas via the cysteine sulfinic acid pathway.
Taurine is a free form amino acid contained in foods and manufactured in the body from the amino acid cysteine. It was first discovered in the bile of bulls, and now produced synthetically by the truckload. Since taurine is created naturally in the human body, a good diet supplies all you need. Because taurine is utilized by the body during exercise and in times of stress, it’s become a popular ingredient in energy drinks. Natural Taurine is actually beneficial for the body and can be found in cows milk, meat, fish, and eggs, and for vegetarians it can be found seaweed. The daily allotment of Taurine should be no higher than 500mg; however, higher amounts from food have shown no toxic effects.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Taurine is the ingredient in Red Bull and other energy drinks that helps muscle function, may aid athletic performance and endurance, helps reduce anxiety, and appears to aid blood sugar regulation and cardiac health. 