ESBL infections have several symptoms that are associated with them. Common symptoms include a pain or burning sensation during urination, diarrhea, abdominal pain and/or stomach cramps, redness around the site of your wound and/or fluid discharging from the wound, chills and a high fever. 
Certain strains of bacteria are resistant to treatments with commonly used antibiotics such as penicillin and cephalosporins. These bacteria produce enzymes known as E xtended S pectrum B eta-L actamases or ESBLs for short. If a patient is suspected to have an infection then a swab or or specimen of the infected area will be taken and sent to the microbiology lab for testing. It is very important that diagnosis of ESBL is made quickly so that the most appropriate treatment can be prescribed quickly.
Extended-Spectrum Beta-lactamase (ESBL) – are chemicals which are produced by a certain type of bacteria. The bacteria break down antibiotics, thereby making infections very hard to treat. Most people are infected by the bacteria in hospitals, and this is due tom improper handing by medical staff. 
In fact many people have ESBL-producing E-coli bacteria in their bowels and they are completely harmless. This is known as colonisation or carriage because an individual can feel well without any signs or symptoms of infection whilst carrying the bug. If a patient is suspected to have an infection then a swab or or specimen of the infected area will be taken and sent to the microbiology lab for testing. It is very important that diagnosis of ESBL is made quickly so that the most appropriate treatment can be prescribed quickly.
Urine infection is the most commonly diagnosed infection, but infection in the lungs (chest), wounds and in the blood can also occur. Infections caused by ESBL-producing bacteria can be more difficult to treat because of antibiotic resistance, as there are fewer effective antibiotics to use. As a result, infections caused by these bacteria can be difficult to treat and the prevalence of these bacteria and infections caused by them are becoming more common in both community and healthcare settings.
Definition. ESBLs are enzymes that are produced by bacteria. The enzymes make the bacteria resistant to many kinds of antibiotics. It is possible to carry these bacteria without being sick. This is called being colonized. A person who is colonized can still spread the infection to others. Causes TOP. This condition occurs when the body is infected with bacteria. These bacteria produce enzymes that make the infection resistant to many kinds of antibiotics. That is why it is so hard to treat.
There are only a few antibiotics that can be used to treat this infection. It is also important to take steps to control the spread of ESBL infections, such as: 1  Preventing the spread of ESBL-producing bacteria to others by isolation, handwashing, and other steps. Causes TOP. This condition occurs when the body is infected with bacteria. These bacteria produce enzymes that make the infection resistant to many kinds of antibiotics. That is why it is so hard to treat.
Extended-Spectrum Beta-lactamase (ESBL) -- Producing Bacteria Extended-spectrum beta-lactamases are chemicals made by certain kinds of germs (bacteria). These germs (or ESBL for short) break down several types of antibiotics (medications that fight infection). So, when a person gets sick because of ESBL, the infection is harder to treat with those antibiotics. ESBL is mainly spread among people in hospitals and long-term care facilities. Infections due to ESBL usually affect the urinary tract and gut (intestine). They can also affect wounds and the blood
Introduction. Extended Spectrum Beta-Lactamases (ESBLs) are enzymes produced by bacteria such as Escherichia coli (E.coli) and Klebsiella. These are mainly bacteria that are found normally in the human bowel, but can cause serious illness. As a result, infections caused by these bacteria can be difficult to treat and the prevalence of these bacteria and infections caused by them are becoming more common in both community and healthcare settings.
A urinary tract infection is the most commonly caused infection by ESBL producing E. Coli but more serious life-threatening infections of the blood and lungs can also occur. These infections are often very difficult to treat due to their resistance to antibiotics. If a patient is suspected to have an infection then a swab or or specimen of the infected area will be taken and sent to the microbiology lab for testing. It is very important that diagnosis of ESBL is made quickly so that the most appropriate treatment can be prescribed quickly.