Ultraviolet (UV) light is a form of light that is invisible to the human eye. It occupies the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum between X-rays and visible light. The sun emits ultraviolet light; however, much of it is absorbed by the earth’s ozone layer. Microorganisms are inactivated by UV light as a result of damage to nucleic acids. The high energy associated with short wavelength UV energy, primarily at 254 nm, is absorbed by cellular RNA and DNA.
UV is a proven and safe alternative for primary disinfection as it is free of the harmful by-products associated with chemical disinfection. UV also has the added benefit of not compromising the taste, color or odor of water. Trojan has an unrivalled depth of experience at all scales. 
Ultraviolet Disinfection 1 Ultraviolet (UV) sanitizing units are used in many water purification systems to control bacteria and havecertain applications in animal drinking water systems. 2 Ultraviolet Disinfection FlowrateAll UV units have a maximum flowrate capacity and some have a minimum flowrate as well. Ifthe flow is too high, water will pass through without enough UV exposure. If the flow is too low,heat may build up which can damage the UV lamp.
NATIONAL DRINKING WATER CLEARINGHOUSE PAGE OF FOUR Using ultraviolet (UV) light for drinking water disinfection dates back to 1916 in the U.S. Over theyears, UV costs have declined as researchers develop and use new UV methods to disinfect waterand wastewater. 
How does UV disinfect water. UV light is a naturally occurring component of solar radiation. It falls in the region between visible light and X-Rays in the electromagnetic spectrum. Generally, UV light is considered as falling between the wavelengths 100nm – 400nm, however UV can be categorized even further into separate regions. UV light damages the DNA in bacteria, viruses, moulds and some protozoa, leaving them unable to perform cellular functions and multiply. UV is particularly highly effective against Cryptosporidium and Giardia – organisms resistant to chlorine that are a major risk to human health.
the Torch. The TORCH Ultraviolet Light Disinfection System is a low cost, highly effective addition to your cleaning and disinfection program to reduce organisms and infections. Ultraviolet light is a proven method of reducing a wide range of pathogens on environmental surfaces. 
WHAT UV DOSE DO I REQUIRE. UV disinfection equipment is being manufactured to a number of different dose standards and it is important to know the dose being used when flow rates are specified. The oldest standard still in use is the US Department of Health standard which recommends a dose of 16mj/cm2.
Unlike chemical approaches to water disinfection, UV light provides rapid, effective inactivation of microorganisms through a physical process. When bacteria, viruses and protozoa are exposed to the germicidal wavelengths of UV light, they are rendered incapable of reproducing and infecting. Microorganisms are inactivated by UV light as a result of damage to nucleic acids. The high energy associated with short wavelength UV energy, primarily at 254 nm, is absorbed by cellular RNA and DNA.
4 A Brief Description of UV • UV disinfection of drinking water involves generating UV light and transmitting that light to pathogens. • UV light is in the region of electromagnetic spectrum that lies between X-rays and visible light. • The UV wavelength is 100- 400 nm. The germicidal wavelength is 200- 300 nm. 
Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation (UVGI) is a disinfection method that uses short-wavelength ultraviolet (UV-C) light to kill or inactivate microorganisms by destroying nucleic acids and disrupting their DNA, leaving them unable to perform vital cellular functions. UV light is electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths shorter than visible light. UV can be separated into various ranges, with short-wavelength UV (UVC) considered germicidal UV. At certain wavelengths, UV is mutagenic to bacteria, viruses and other microorganisms.