Hi guys, I'm moving my first steps with Arduino. I have a base workshop kit with come with a lot of different capacitors. I read about what are they usually used, anyway I still don't see a practical use scenario for them on simple arduino projects.. The problem is: I do know what a capacitor does. The theory around it. Still I don't see how can I use in my Arduino projects, even if as a side component. Instead I always see lot of usages for eg resistors, buttons, transistors, etc.. Capacitors are still kind of vodoo to me
I'm trying to visualize the charge discharge curve of a capacitor with Arduino. This is my curcuit: 13 is pin 13 of the Arduino and A0 is the analog pin 0 that I use to read voltages at that point. What I do is to set 13 to HIGH/LOW with time spans of around 4.7 seconds, which is the loading time for that capacitor with the 10k resistor.
Measuring uptime. What I want to do is: Charge a capacitor to 5V and see how long the ATmega runs until the supply voltage is too low. During this time the controller should measure V CC and store the values. After powering again with 5V read out the data and look what happened. When we get reasonable results we could make a Minimal Solar Arduino with a capacitor to store the energy. This is the idea behind this project: Building a solar powered arduino system with minimal power consumption and a minimum of components.
Arduino Capacitance Meter Theory. Capacitance is a measure of the ability of something to store electrical charge. Each Arduino capacitance meter relies on the same basic property of capacitors-the time constant. The time constant of a capacitor is defined as the time it takes for the voltage across the capacitor to reach 63.2% of its voltage when fully charged. The Arduino measures the capacitance of the unknown capacitor by recording the time it takes for the capacitor to reach 63.2% of its voltage when fully charged, then dividing that value by the known resistance of the circuit.
1 Connect Bypass Capacitors from the Power/Vcc pin of the chip to the chip ground pin, very close to the chip. 2  A good value is .1uF. 3  Timing capacitor for a 555 timer to set it's frequency, along with a resistor. 1 This is what is called a Bypass Capacitor, because it conducts any changes in voltage to ground. 2  Bypass capacitors DO conduct current when some circuit tries to make the voltage change, such as changing currents drawn by Arduino chips on their circuit board.
1 Same thing when putting IC Chips on a breadboard. 2  Connect Bypass Capacitors from the Power/Vcc pin of the chip to the chip ground pin, very close to the chip. 3  A good value is .1uF. 4  Timing capacitor for a 555 timer to set it's frequency, along with a resistor. 1 This is what is called a Bypass Capacitor, because it conducts any changes in voltage to ground. 2  Bypass capacitors DO conduct current when some circuit tries to make the voltage change, such as changing currents drawn by Arduino chips on their circuit board.
De-Rating Rule of Thumb. While people may argue about what is acceptable for de-rating capacitors, I would suggest using capacitors whose voltage rating is at least 2-3 times that of the expected voltage. For example, if you plan on decoupling a 5V power line, use a capacitor with a rated voltage at 10V or above. 
1 That's why there are Bypass Capacitors on the Arduino boards. 2  If there is a constant changing AC signal trying to change the voltage like in a power supply, a capacitor can act as a Filter Capacitor, and smooths the voltage so that it is more like pure DC. 1 This is what is called a Bypass Capacitor, because it conducts any changes in voltage to ground. 2  Bypass capacitors DO conduct current when some circuit tries to make the voltage change, such as changing currents drawn by Arduino chips on their circuit board.