Did you know that the orbit of a spacecraft can sometimes be a hyperbola? A spacecraft can use the gravity of a planet to alter its path and propel it at high speed away from the planet and back out into space using a technique called gravitational slingshot. A hyperbola is a curve where the distances of any point from: 1  a fixed point (the focus), and. 2  a fixed straight line (the directrix) are always in the same ratio.
In mathematics, a hyperbola (plural hyperbolas or hyperbolae) is a type of smooth curve, lying in a plane, defined by its geometric properties or by equations for which it is the solution set. A hyperbola can be defined as the locus of points for which the ratio of the distances to one focus and to a line (called the directrix) is a constant that is larger than 1. This constant is the eccentricity of the hyperbola.
So, let's get started. The standard equation of a hyperbola that we use is (x-h)^2/ a ^2 - (y-k)^2/ b ^2 = 1 for hyperbolas that open sideways. If our hyperbola opens up and down, then our standard equation is (y-k)^2/ a ^2 - (x-h)^2/ b ^2 = 1. Our hyperbola has a center given by the point (h, k). Our hyperbola also has two vertices, or tips. For hyperbolas that open sideways, the vertices are given by the points (h + a, k) and (h-a, k). We learned that a hyperbola looks like two arcs back to back with each other. We also learned that the standard equation of a hyperbola
When the transverse axis is horizontal (in other words, when the center, foci, and vertices line up side by side, parallel to the x-axis), then the a2 goes with the x part of the hyperbola's equation, and the y part is subtracted. Like an ellipse, an hyperbola has two foci and two vertices; unlike an ellipse, the foci in an hyperbola are further from the hyperbola's center than are its vertices: The hyperbola is centered on a point (h, k) , which is the  center  of the hyperbola.
When the transverse axis is vertical (in other words, when the center, foci, and vertices line up above and below each other, parallel to the y-axis), then the a2 goes with the y part of the hyperbola's equation, and the x part is subtracted. In conics form, an hyperbola's equation is always  =1 . Like an ellipse, an hyperbola has two foci and two vertices; unlike an ellipse, the foci in an hyperbola are further from the hyperbola's center than are its vertices: The hyperbola is centered on a point (h, k) , which is the  center  of the hyperbola.
In the standard equation of the hyperbola, the center is located at, the foci are at, and the vertices are at. The so-called asymptotes (shown as the dashed lines in the above figures) can be found by substituting 0 for the 1 on the right side of the general equation (8), (10). and therefore have slopes. A hyperbola (plural hyperbolas; Gray 1997, p. 45) is a conic section defined as the locus of all points in the plane the difference of whose distances and from two fixed points (the foci and) separated by a distance is a given positive constant, (1). (Hilbert and Cohn-Vossen 1999, p. 3).
A hyperbola has two pieces, called connected components or branches, that are mirror images of each other and resemble two infinite bows. The hyperbola is one of the four kinds of conic section, formed by the intersection of a plane and a double cone. A hyperbola can be defined as the locus of points for which the ratio of the distances to one focus and to a line (called the directrix) is a constant that is larger than 1. This constant is the eccentricity of the hyperbola.
A hyperbola is a set of all points P such that the difference between the distances from P to the foci, F 1 and F 2, are a constant K. Before learning how to graph a hyperbola from its equation, get familiar with the vocabulary words and diagrams below. 1 To determine the foci you can use the formula: a 2 + b 2 = c 2. 2  transverse axis: this is the axis on which the two foci are. 3  asymptotes: the two lines that the hyperbolas come closer and closer to touching. 4  The asymptotes are colored red in the graphs below and the equation of the asymptotes is always:
Definition of HYPERBOLA. : a plane curve generated by a point so moving that the difference of the distances from two fixed points is a constant: a curve formed by the intersection of a double right circular cone with a plane that cuts both halves of the cone. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, from Greek hyperbolē
1 focus of hyperbola: the two points on the transverse axis. 2  These points are what controls the entire shape of the hyperbola since the hyperbola's graph is made up of all points, P, such that the distance between P and the two foci are equal. 3  To determine the foci you can use the formula: a 2 + b 2 = c 2. 1 To determine the foci you can use the formula: a 2 + b 2 = c 2. 2  transverse axis: this is the axis on which the two foci are. 3  asymptotes: the two lines that the hyperbolas come closer and closer to touching. 4  The asymptotes are colored red in the graphs below and the equation of the asymptotes is always: