Glacial landforms are landforms created by the action of glaciers. Most of today's glacial landforms were created by the movement of large ice sheets during the Quaternary glaciations. 1 Moraine: Feature can be terminal (at the end of a glacier), lateral (along the sides of a glacier), or medial (formed by the emerger of lateral moraines from contributary glaciers). 2  Outwash fan: Braided stream flowing from the front end of a glacier.
Landforms of coastal deposition. Coastal deposition is the laying down of material on the coast by the sea. It occurs when waves lose energy or when large inputs of sediment are made into the coastal system-perhaps due to the arrival of fluvial sediment at a river estuary. In addition to beaches, a range of unique depositional landforms exist, including the bar, spit, tombolo and cuspate foreland. The formation of these landforms additionally depends upon the process of longshore drift.
A river delta is a landform that forms from deposition of sediment carried by a river as the flow leaves its mouth and enters slower-moving or standing water. This occurs where a river enters an ocean, sea, estuary, lake, reservoir, or (more rarely) another river that cannot transport away the supplied sediment. 
Later, when the glaciers retreated leaving behind their freight of crushed rock and sand (glacial drift), they created characteristic depositional landforms. Examples include glacial moraines, eskers, and kames. Drumlins and ribbed moraines are also landforms left behind by retreating glaciers. The stone walls of New England contain many glacial erratics, rocks that were dragged by a glacier many miles from their bedrock origin. 1 Moraine: Feature can be terminal (at the end of a glacier), lateral (along the sides of a glacier), or medial (formed by the emerger of lateral moraines from contributary glaciers). 2  Outwash fan: Braided stream flowing from the front end of a glacier.
Arch – Continual erosion into a headland undermining the foundations. This is usually seen in hard rock landforms such as chalk. An example on our frontage is White Ness (Thanet) . Bar – Offshore accumulation of sediments due to wave erosion, transportation and deposition. Coastal Landforms Beach – an area of coastal sediment accumulation at the land-sea boundary. The beach is the first line of defence for coastal protection. The beaches along our coastline are characterised by shingle, sand, shell and shale. Delta – Deposition of fluvial sediments into the coastal waters.
Beaches are considered depositional landforms, as they are made up largely of sediment deposited there by waves. These types of coastlines are an example of depositional landforms that change rapidly as existing sediment is eroded and new sediment deposited. Waves can also deposit sediment in areas offshore, where they build up to be sandbars and sand dunes. These piles were carried for long distances by the movement of glaciers, then deposited when the ice melted. Drumlins are tear-shaped depositional landforms created by the compression of such rubble. When glaciers melt, they drop the rocks and other sediments they are carrying into the landscape.
Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images. Depositional landforms are the visible evidence of processes that have deposited sediments or rocks after they were transported by flowing ice or water, wind or gravity. Examples include beaches, deltas, glacial moraines, sand dunes and salt domes. These piles were carried for long distances by the movement of glaciers, then deposited when the ice melted. Drumlins are tear-shaped depositional landforms created by the compression of such rubble. When glaciers melt, they drop the rocks and other sediments they are carrying into the landscape.
Depositional landforms are the visible evidence of processes that have deposited sediments or rocks after they were transported by flowing ice or water, wind or gravity. These piles were carried for long distances by the movement of glaciers, then deposited when the ice melted. Drumlins are tear-shaped depositional landforms created by the compression of such rubble. When glaciers melt, they drop the rocks and other sediments they are carrying into the landscape.
Stack – Further backward erosion into a headland resulting in a collapsed arch and the formation of a sea stack. An example of this is at Botany Bay in Kent (see Bay, for picture). Coastal Landforms Tombolo – Sea ward deposition of sediment linking the mainland to an island. We have no tombolo within the south east boundaries; however good examples include Holy Island, Northumberland, St Michael’s Mount, Cornwall, and the Isle of Portland. Coastal Landforms Beach – an area of coastal sediment accumulation at the land-sea boundary. The beach is the first line of defence for coastal protection. The beaches along our coastline are characterised by shingle, sand, shell and shale. Delta – Deposition of fluvial sediments into the coastal waters.
If enough sediment is eroded away in one place, it can begin to form erosional landforms. A bay at place where a river meets the sea is an excellent example of an erosional landform. The size, shape, and scope of a bay can vary drastically by the composition of the rocks and soil surrounding it. Even places like the famous Haystack Rock off the Oregon coast is an example of an erosional landform. At one time, this magnificent piece of rock was once a part of a cliff-like shoreline. Over time, the force of the ocean eroded it away.