Plumeria rubra is a deciduous plant species belonging to the genus Plumeria. Originally native to Mexico, Central America, Colombia and Venezuela, it has been widely cultivated in subtropical and tropical climates worldwide and is a popular garden and park plant, as well as being used in temples and cemeteries.
Tubular fragrant flowers occur in summer-autumn. Plumeria Rubra (and variation Plumeria Acutifolia) also known as the Common Frangipani or Red Frangipani, is native to Mexico, Central America, and Venezuela. It is a decidous, spreading, sparsely branched tree or shrub with a height to 4m and spread to 4m and more. Produces fragrant flowers with 5 spreading petals, ranging from yellow to pink depending on form or cultivar, in summer to autumn. Leaves are lance shaped to oval, and 20cm to 30cm long.
Plumeria Rubra (and variation Plumeria Acutifolia) also known as the Common Frangipani or Red Frangipani, is native to Mexico, Central America, and Venezuela. It is a decidous, spreading, sparsely branched tree or shrub with a height to 4m and spread to 4m and more. Produces fragrant flowers with 5 spreading petals, ranging from yellow to pink depending on form or cultivar, in summer to autumn. Leaves are lance shaped to oval, and 20cm to 30cm long.
1 In tropical regions, the frangipani may reach a height of 30-40 feet and grow half as wide. 2  Frangipani plants have long leather, fleshy leaves in clusters near the branch tips. 3  Frangipani plants have widely spaced, thick succulent branches which are round or pointed. 4  Frangipani leaves tend to fall in early winter.
1 Frangipani flowering plants can grow to be large shrubs or even small trees. 2  In tropical regions, the frangipani may reach a height of 30-40 feet and grow half as wide. 3  Frangipani plants have long leather, fleshy leaves in clusters near the branch tips.
It grows as a spreading tree to 7–8 m (23–26 ft) high and wide, and is flushed with fragrant flowers of shades of pink, white and yellow over the summer and autumn. Its common names include frangipani, red paucipan, red-jasmine, red frangipani, common frangipani, temple tree, or simply plumeria.