Heat is simply molecular energy, or, the speed molecules are moving. When heating water, energy is added to the particles of water, and so they move and vibrate faster, thus heating up, until the particles break away from each others electromagnetic force, and fly off at their own will, creating steam and water-vapour. Water when cool is in a way (sticky). When heated the water molecules are moving far too quickly stick together. … The heated water molecules become less dense and may stick to air molecules. Floating into and combining with the atmosphere.
The same thing happens when you heat up a solid (like ice) -- the molecules stop sticking together, and the solid melts into a liquid. Most of the things you use every day will melt inside an oven -- think of ice, or glass, or plastic things (please don't try to experiment with melting things in your oven!). Answer 3: Actually, aluminum foil does get hot when it is in the oven. For example, if you wrap up a baked potato in foil and cook it in the oven, the foil will be too hot too touch. What you might be thinking about is, for example, laying a piece of foil in the oven (like when people make a tent over their turkey).
What you Need A balloon filled with air A balloon filled with water A lit candle Help from an adult What to Do Place the lit candle in the sink, this way if anything should happen, you can easily put out the flame with tap water. Blow up a balloon and tie it off. Then hold it over a lit candle with a parents help. What to Do. 1  Place the lit candle in the sink, this way if anything should happen, you can easily put out the flame with tap water. 2  Blow up a balloon and tie it off. 3  What happens to the balloon? 4  Now fill a balloon with water and tie it off. 5  Now hold the water balloon over the candle.
Confidence votes 36.8K. When you heat water, like anything else, its temperature or energy increases. The molecules will have more and more motion, i.e. more and more energy-this is the definition of temperature. What happens to water molecules when water is heated? Like other molecules, water molecules, H2O (or H-O-H), move, vibrate and rotate in many ways at a temperature above absolute 0.
Report Abuse. Carbonated water is carbon dioxide dissolved in water. As you heat it up the carbon dioxide will escape from the water. It will not be as fizzy when you cool it back down. Iason Ouabache · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
When water molecules are heated up, the total e … nergy of the molecules is increased and result in moving, vibrational and rotational speeds increase. The structure of a water molecule provides a special attracting force between water molecules, hydrogen bond, to keep water molecules together. What happens to water molecules when water is heated? Like other molecules, water molecules, H2O (or H-O-H), move, vibrate and rotate in many ways at a temperature above absolute 0.
If you heat the copper slowly, the water will evaporate, but the copper will not be heated to the point where it reacts with the oxygen in the air (combust). If you heat it quickly, the copper will heated so intensely that it reacts with oxygen to form the copper (2) oxide compound. Therefore, you will not have pure copper, but look on the bright side, the water's gone. denwel33 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
When water absorbs heat, it makes the individual water molecules vibrate faster. This is because heat is essentially evenly spread energy. If the molecules vibrate fast enough … , they will be able to separate from each other and become a gas, which is what happens if the water evaporates and boils. What happens to water molecules when water is heated? Like other molecules, water molecules, H2O (or H-O-H), move, vibrate and rotate in many ways at a temperature above absolute 0.
Air heats up relatively quickly for two reasons: first, because the specific heat capacity of air is about a quarter of water's; second, because air is a gas, it has relatively little mass. If your room is freezing and you turn on a fan (convection) heater, you'll find everything seems to warm up very quickly. Objects can store heat because the atoms and molecules inside them are jostling around and bumping into one another like people in a crowd. This idea is called the kinetic theory of matter, because it describes heat as a kind of kinetic energy stored by the atoms and molecules from which materials are made.