DEFINITION of 'Financial Intermediary'. An entity that acts as the middleman between two parties in a financial transaction. While a commercial bank is a typical financial intermediary, this category also includes other financial institutions such as investment banks, insurance companies, broker-dealers, mutual funds and pension funds. 
Intermediation. A financial intermediary (such as a bank) simultaneously interacts with savers (or lenders) and borrowers and produces a set of services which facilitate the transformation of its liabilities (such as deposits) into assets (such as loans). 
A financial intermediary is vital for a complex financial system. Lubrication is the buzzword for any economy in the sense that liquidity is closely related to how easily currency can be transferred from one party to another. Article Tags: Financial Intermediary. Source: Free Articles from ArticlesFactory.com. It is not feasible to do this directly as there is a large amount of risk and cost involved when qualifying borrowers. A financial intermediary is a specialized business in economy such as a commercial bank that takes on an amount of this risk and cost to provide qualified borrowers to lenders.
In the U.S., a financial intermediary is typically an institution that facilitates the channelling of funds between lenders and borrowers indirectly. That is, savers (lenders) give funds to an intermediary institution (such as a bank), and that institution gives those funds to spenders (borrowers). This may be in the form of loans or mortgages. The importance of the financial intermediaries is immense in the modern day world. Financial Intermediaries as Markets for Firm's Assets::Financial intermediaries appear to have a key role in the restructuring and liquidation of firms in distress.
A financial intermediary is a firm or an institution that acts an intermediary between a provider of service and the consumer. It is the institution or individual that is in between two or more parties in a financial context. In theoretical terms, a financial intermediary channels savings into investments. Financial intermediaries exist for profit in the financial system and sometimes there is a need to regulate the activities of the same. 
In the context of climate finance and development, financial intermediaries generally refer to private sector intermediaries, such as banks, private equity, venture capital funds, leasing companies, insurance and pension funds, and micro-credit providers. According to some heterodox economists and others, financial intermediaries simply do not exist. Through the process of financial intermediation, certain assets or liabilities are transformed into different assets or liabilities.
The process of financial intermediation is a very important role in an economy like ours. The majority of economic agents are in need of resources which they cannot generate on their own while some have surplus resources. The ability of the two economic agents can be quickened by a financial intermediary. A financial intermediary helps to facilitate the different needs of lenders and borrowers. For example, if you need to borrow $1 000 – you could try to find an individual who wants to lend £1 000.
A financial intermediary is typically an institution that facilitates the channeling of funds between lenders and borrowers indirectly. That is, savers (lenders) give funds to an intermediary institution (such as a bank), and that institution gives those funds to spenders (borrowers). This may be in the form of loans or mortgages. Alternatively, they may lend the money directly via the financial markets, which is known as financial disintermediation. According to some heterodox economists and others, financial intermediaries simply do not exist. Through the process of financial intermediation, certain assets or liabilities are transformed into different assets or liabilities.
Definition of financial intermediaries. A financial intermediary is a financial institution such as bank, building society, insurance company, investment bank or pension fund. A financial intermediary offers a service to help an individual/ firm to save or borrow money. A financial intermediary helps to facilitate the different needs of lenders and borrowers. 
Another type of financial intermediary is a non-depository institution such as an insurance company. Insurance companies collect premiums for various types of coverages; auto, home, and liability. They do not immediately pay out the all the premiums in losses. Examples of Financial Intermediaries. If someone asked you to name a financial intermediary that helps move funds from lenders to spenders, you probably would say a bank. And you would be correct. A bank is considered a depository financial intermediary, where savers deposit money and spenders borrow that money.