What does Harvey mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Harvey is of French origin. The meaning of Harvey is warrior. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is battle worthy. The name Harva is a form of Harvey. Harvey has the diminutive (nickname) Harve. Harvey falls into the classic name category. Some famous bearers of this name include: Harvey Firestone.
1 English and Scottish: from the Breton personal name Aeruiu or Haerviu, composed of the elements haer ‘battle’, ‘carnage’ + vy ‘worthy’, which was brought to England by Breton followers of William the Conqueror, for the most part in the Gallicized form Herve.  hervé | Share. Save Name. Last name origins & meanings: 1 
Harvey. The name Harvey is thought to be a Gallicized version of the name Herve-coming from an older Breton name of Aeruiu or Haerviu which comprised the elements haer meaning battle and vy worthy.. 
The surname is generally recorded as Harvey, Harvie, Hervie and Hervey, and early recordings include William Hervy of Essex in 1232, Warin Harvi in the Pipe Rolls of Cambridge for the year 1273, and John Hervy, burgess of Aberdeen in 1398. This ancient surname, which is one of the earliest on record, is of English and Irish origin. It is also well recorded in Scotland, although the origin is as for England. The name has two possible sources, the first being from the Breton personal name Aeruiu or Haerviu, composed of the elements haer, meaning battle, and vy, - worthy
American Meaning: The name Harvey is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Harvey is: warrior. Celtic Meaning: The name Harvey is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Harvey is: Eager for battle. The name Harvey is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Harvey is: Soldier. English Meaning: The name Harvey is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Harvey is: Bitter. Eager for battle. French Meaning: The name Harvey is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Harvey is: From Celtic words for battle, strong, worthy, and ardent
Last Name Meaning & Genealogy Links for the Surname HARVEY. Meaning & Origin: From the Breton first name Haerviu or Aeruiu, derived from the elements haer meaning battle or carnage and viu, meaning worthy.. In general it was used to refer to a soldier or someone who was battle worthy.. It's also possible that the Harvey surname derives from the Old German personal name Herewig, from the elements hari army and wig war.. Surname Origin: English, Scottish, Irish.
Harvey Name Meaning. English and Scottish: from the Breton personal name Aeruiu or Haerviu, composed of the elements haer ‘battle’, ‘carnage’ + vy ‘worthy’, which was brought to England by Breton followers of William the Conqueror, for the most part in the Gallicized form Herve. hervé
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Harvey is an English family and given name derived from the Breton name Huiarnuiu, derived from an Old Breton first name Huiarnviu, derived from the elements hoiarn, huiarn (Breton houarn) meaning iron and 'viu' (Breton bev) meaning blazing. It is related to Old Welsh Haarnbiu. 