bacterial recombination in bacterial genetics, the process of producing a new gene by any of several processes, e.g., the sexual union of two parents, molecular crossing over between two DNA chains, or transformation. recombination. 1. the reunion, in the same or different arrangement, of formerly united elements that have been separated. 2. in genetics, the process that creates new combinations of genes by shuffling the linear order of the DNA.
Homologous recombination is a type of genetic recombination in which nucleotide sequences are exchanged between two similar or identical molecules of DNA. It is most widely used by cells to accurately repair harmful breaks that occur on both strands of DNA, known as double-strand breaks. Homologous recombination is also used in horizontal gene transfer to exchange genetic material between different strains and species of bacteria and viruses.
Genetic recombination and recombinational DNA repair also occurs in bacteria and archaea, which use asexual reproduction. Recombination can be artificially induced in laboratory (in vitro) settings, producing recombinant DNA for purposes including vaccine development. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A current model of meiotic recombination, initiated by a double-strand break or gap, followed by pairing with an homologous chromosome and strand invasion to initiate the recombinational repair process.
Genetic recombination is the production of offspring with combinations of traits that differ from those found in either parent. In eukaryotes, genetic recombination during meiosis can lead to a novel set of genetic information that can be passed on from the parents to the offspring. Most recombination is naturally occurring. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A current model of meiotic recombination, initiated by a double-strand break or gap, followed by pairing with an homologous chromosome and strand invasion to initiate the recombinational repair process.
Medical Definition of RECOMBINATION. : the formation by the processes of crossing-over and independent assortment of new combinations of genes in progeny that did not occur in the parents. — re·com·bi·na·tion·al \-shnəl, -shə-nəl\ adjective. See recombination defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Recombination. Definition. noun, plural: recombinations. (1) (genetics) The process or act of exchanges of genes between chromosomes, resulting in a different genetic combination and ultimately to the formation of unique gametes with chromosomes that are different from those in parents. In genetics, recombination occurs during meiosis when chromosomes exchange genes. Thus, recombination is one of the important means to promote and increase genetic diversity between generations. Word origin: re - (again) + combination. Related term(s):
recombination. Recombination in meiosis. Recombination is a process by which pieces of DNA are broken and recombined to produce new combinations of alleles. This recombination process creates genetic diversity at the level of genes that reflects differences in the DNA sequences of different organisms. In eukaryotic cells, which are cells with a nucleus and organelles, recombination typically occurs during meiosis. Meiosis is a form of cell division that produces gametes, or egg and sperm cells. During the first phase of meiosis, the homologous pairs of maternal and paternal chromosomes align.
V(D)J recombination in organisms with an adaptive immune system is a type of site-specific genetic recombination that helps immune cells rapidly diversify to recognize and adapt to new pathogens. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A current model of meiotic recombination, initiated by a double-strand break or gap, followed by pairing with an homologous chromosome and strand invasion to initiate the recombinational repair process.