Inguinal hernias can also be incarcerated or strangulated. An incarcerated inguinal hernia happens when tissue becomes stuck in the groin and can’t go back. Strangulated versions are more serious medical conditions that restrict blood flow to the small intestine. An inguinal hernia occurs in the groin area when fatty or intestinal tissues push through the inguinal canal. The inguinal canal resides at the base of the abdomen. Both men and woman have an inguinal canal. In men, the testes usually descend through this canal shortly before birth
About umbilical hernia. An umbilical hernia is a result of weakness in the muscles in or around your belly button. It causes the belly button to pop outwards and can happen at any age. Umbilical hernias are most common in women during and after pregnancy, and in people who are overweight. 
Umbilical Hernia. An umbilical hernia is a weakness that develops in the abdominal wall through and around the belly button, called the umbilicus. A bulge or sac containing fat or intestine pushes out through that weakness, sometimes causing an outie belly button. 
Symptoms of an umbilical hernia. An umbilical hernia occurs when part of the bowel or fatty tissue pokes through an area near the belly button. A symptom is something the patient senses and describes, while a sign is something other people, such as the doctor notice. For example, drowsiness may be a symptom while dilated pupils may be a sign. There may be a soft bulge/swelling near the umbilicus (navel), ranging from about 1 to 5 cms in diameter (0.5 to 2 inches). The bulge is usually more noticeable if the baby cries, laughs, coughs or strains. Pain-in children and infants umbilical hernias are not usually painful. Adults may feel pain or discomfort.
Definition. Umbilical hernia repair is surgery to repair an umbilical hernia. An umbilical hernia is a sac (pouch) formed from the inner lining of your belly (abdominal cavity) that pushes through a hole in the abdominal wall at the belly button. 
Umbilical hernia. An umbilical hernia occurs when part of the intestine protrudes through the umbilical opening in the abdominal muscles. Umbilical hernias are common and typically harmless. They are most common in infants, but they can affect adults as well. 
An umbilical hernia in adults usually occurs when too much pressure is put on a weak section of the stomach muscles, due to factors including: 1  being overweight. 2  frequent pregnancies. 3  multiple gestation pregnancies (having twins, triplets, etc.). 4  fluid in the abdominal cavity. 5  stomach surgery. 
Hernias: Umbilical, Ventral Hernia-Cleveland, Ohio Hernia. A ventral hernia refers to a bulge occurring anywhere in the abdomen. They most often appear in the upper abdomen and can vary in size. They are generally considered a congenital development and therefore can occur at all ages. 
Symptoms. An umbilical hernia creates a soft swelling or bulge near the navel (umbilicus). If your baby has an umbilical hernia, you may notice the bulge only when he or she cries, coughs or strains. The bulge may disappear when your baby is calm or lies on his or her back. 