1.) The best way to hatch a goose egg is to let the female goose hatch it. But if you want to hatch them yourselves, go ahead, it's a fun experience. The temperature should be around 99 degrees F. Turn the eggs 3 times a day, but about on the 3rd to last day, stop turning the egg. It is preparing to hatch. About 2 or 1 day before the goose hatches, you should see a small hole in the egg, made by the goose's beak.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The incubation period for Canada Geese in the wild is 25-28 days. Incubation actually starts only after the goose lays all of her eggs. It is exciting to watch, but remember to watch from a distance, so the mother will not feel threatened and abandon the nest. Also, do not assume that she has abandoned the nest if she is absent. RE: How long does it take for goose eggs to hatch? I saw a nest at work with quite a few goose eggs in it and am wondering how long the incubation period is? I&#39;m very excited to see the babies.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on condition
Answers. Best Answer: Most goose eggs take about 28-34 days to hatch, depending on what kind of goose.Don't worry if yours don't hatch on the EXACT day, because some goose eggs hatch early, and some hatch late. Here's some additional info on how to hatch goose eggs. The temperature should be around 99 degrees F. Turn the eggs 3 times a day, but about on the 3rd to last day, stop turning the egg. It is preparing to hatch. About 2 or 1 day before the goose hatches, you should see a small hole in the egg, made by the goose's beak.
Here is what I came up with. Most goose eggs take from 28 to 32 days to hatch. However, it is not uncommon for them to hatch anywhere from day 26 to day 35. Goose eggs take the same temperature as chickens---99.5 forced air and 101.5 still air. They also need a much higher humidity--at least 65% from days 1-26, then 85% or more until they hatch. Cool the eggs for 15 minutes a day after day 4. Cooling eggs can be anything from removing them from the incubator as in a cabinet incubator; or simply removing the top of the incubator as in a styrofoam incubator. You will also need to mist the eggs during the cool down with warm water until you see the first pip.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. 
5. Wait until the eggs hatch. Incubation can take 28 to 35 days, and hatching can take as long as three days. 1  Keep the conditions of the nest clean throughout this entire period and continue turning the eggs each day during the entire process. 1 The use of nest boxes can prevent more egg breaks. 2  Provide one 20 inch (50 cm) nest box for every three geese in your flock. 3  If you want to speed up the production of your eggs, you can also shine artificial light on the nest boxes throughout the day and evening.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. You get a male and female goose. You put them in a safe place outdoors with food and plenty of water. In the spring, the female will lay about 20 eggs which she will set … on both day and night until the eggs hatch about 28 days later.