What is Chlamydia Pneumoniae. Chlamydophila pneumoniae (formerly known as Chlamydia pneumoniae) are bacteria infect humans and can lead to pneumonia. They are a type of chlamydia. Chlamydophila pneumoniae has a complex life cycle and needs to infect another cell to reproduce themselves. The chlamydia were counted once for the virus. Today, however, they are assigned to the coccoid bacteria.
The Bacteria Chlamydia Pneumoniae. The bacteria Chlamydia pneumoniae is a complex infectious bacterium that is a major cause of pneumonia. It has a complex life cycle which must infect another cell to reproduce. It travels from an infected person to the lungs of an uninfected person in small droplets. 
A common cause of bacterial pneumonia is Streptococcus pneumoniae. Other bacteria can cause pneumonia, including Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Chlamydophila (Chlamydia) pneumoniae, Chlamydophila (Chlamydia) psittaci, and Legionella pneumophila. 
Chlamydia pneumoniae (now called Chlamydophila pneumoniae) is one of three Chlamydia species that can cause pneumonia in humans. They are Gram-negative cocci bacteria present throughout nature. Untreated, these infections can become chronic. The more familiar Chlamydia trachomatis (what most people think of when they hear the word Chlamydia) is associated with sexually transmitted diseases trachoma, pelvic inflammatory disease, and cervicitis, although it can also cause eye, ear, and nose infections and pneumonia in infants and young kids.
Chlamydia pneumoniae (now called Chlamydophila pneumoniae) is one of three Chlamydia species that can cause pneumonia in humans. They are Gram-negative cocci bacteria present throughout nature. Untreated, these infections can become chronic. Symptoms. Chlamydia pneumoniae in the respiratory tract causes atypical pneumonia, a persistent cough, headache, and a general ill feeling. The bug may also cause infections such as bronchitis, laryngitis, pharyngitis, rhinitis, and sinusitis.
Chlamydia pneumoniae usually causes a type of relatively mild walking pneumonia. Patients experience fever and cough. This type of pneumonia is called a community-acquired pneumonia because it is easily passed from one member of the community to another. Chlamydial pneumonia refers to one of several types of pneumonia that can be caused by various types of the bacteria known as Chlamydia. Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs. The air sacs (alveoli) and/or the tissues of the lungs become swollen, and the alveoli may fill with pus or fluid.
Until recently, it was known as Chlamydia pneumoniae, and that name is used as an alternate in some sources. In some cases, to avoid confusion, both names are given. C. pneumoniae has a complex life cycle and must infect another cell to reproduce; thus, it is classified as an obligate intracellular pathogen. Chlamydophila pneumoniae is a small gram negative bacterium (0.2 to 1 μm) that undergoes several transformations during its life cycle. It exists as an elementary body (EB) between hosts. The EB is not biologically active, but is resistant to environmental stresses and can survive outside a host for a limited time.
Chlamydophila pneumoniae is a species of Chlamydophila, an obligate intracellular bacterium that infects humans and is a major cause of pneumonia. It was known as the Taiwan acute respiratory agent (TWAR) from the names of the two original isolates – Taiwan (TW-183) and an acute respiratory isolate designated AR-39. Chlamydophila pneumoniae is a small gram negative bacterium (0.2 to 1 μm) that undergoes several transformations during its life cycle. It exists as an elementary body (EB) between hosts. The EB is not biologically active, but is resistant to environmental stresses and can survive outside a host for a limited time.
Three chlamydial organisms are pathogenic to humans: Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Chlamydophila psittaci, and Chlamydia trachomatis. These are small, gram-negative, obligate intracellular organisms. All three species can cause pneumonia in humans. 
They think of Chlamydia trachomatis, a common cause of sexually transmitted diseases. Chlamydia pneumonia is the one that's not fun to catch.. The Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) organism, first described in 1988, is not the sexually-transmitted type. It is an airborne organism that you get from breathing after a person carrying the organism has coughed. They float around as droplet nuclei, similar to TB