Why Oxygen Is Important. Oxygen is important because it makes aerobic respiration possible by accepting electrons from the transport chain in the mitochondria. In fermentation, the pyruvate accepts electrons from glycolysis; in aerobic respiration, on the other hand, the pyruvate is broken down still further to make more ATP in the mitochondria. As a result, aerobic respiration can generate up to 19 times more ATP per molecule of glucose than lactic acid fermentation.
Cellular respiration utilizes oxygen at the end of electron transport. The electrons to reduce the oxygen molecule into water molecule are provided by the intermediate products, and are transferred to oxygen through electron transport cycle. Oxygen is used by the respiratory metabolic reaction in the following way. The method of harvesting energy from the food by the cells is cellular respiration. Cellular respiration occurs in two ways. One way is aerobic respiration and anaerobic respiration. Aerobic cellular respiration is a process in which the chemical energy stored in glucose produces ATP or adenosine tri phosphate. ATP molecule is used by the cell as source of energy for metabolic processes. There is transfer of energy from glucose to ATP in cellular respiration
Cellular respiration is the set of metabolic reactions and processes that take place in the cells of organisms to convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and then release waste products. The reactions involved in respiration are catabolic reactions, which break large molecules into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process, as weak so-called high-energy bonds are replaced by stronger bonds in the products. Respiration is one of the key ways a cell gains useful energy to fuel cellular activity.
Cellular respiration is the process cells use to retrieve energy stored in carbohydrates, fats and proteins. Glucose and other molecules are broken down, and the energy released is used to make another molecule called adenosine triphosphate (ATP), the energy currency of the cell. In fermentation, the pyruvate accepts electrons from glycolysis; in aerobic respiration, on the other hand, the pyruvate is broken down still further to make more ATP in the mitochondria. As a result, aerobic respiration can generate up to 19 times more ATP per molecule of glucose than lactic acid fermentation.
Fermentation. Cellular respiration generally refers to aerobic respiration, where cells use the process described above to make ATP. If oxygen is unavailable, however, our cells can still make a limited amount of ATP through lactic acid fermentation. In fermentation, the pyruvate accepts electrons from glycolysis; in aerobic respiration, on the other hand, the pyruvate is broken down still further to make more ATP in the mitochondria. As a result, aerobic respiration can generate up to 19 times more ATP per molecule of glucose than
Cellular Respiration. The term cellular respiration refers to the biochemical pathway by which cells release energy from the chemical bonds of food molecules and provide that energy for the essential processes of life. All living cells must carry out cellular respiration. 
Cellular respiration is important because it is energy that is  released from food molecules. Cellular respiration is also  important because oxygen is needed in order to br … eak down and  digest the food. The food gives humans the nutrients needed to stay  healthy. 1 person found this useful. ATP is a major form of energy in organisms. It is important, because organisms require it for life, and as it is made in cellular respiration, it is an important product, beca … use it is necessary for life. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved. 
Oxygen is needed for the Electron Transport Chain, or ETC for  short. Oxygen's role in ETC is as the final acceptor of electrons.  The transfer of electrons pumps hydrogen p … rotons across the inner  mitochondrial membrane through ATP Synthase and this gradient is  used to synthesize energy in the form of ATP.