BTU, or British thermal unit, is the industry-standard used to measure the heating efficiency of furnaces. In addition to BTU ratings, furnace manufacturers might include a Manual J Load rating and a percentage of energy efficiency. BTU is a unit of measurement that measures the amount of energy required to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit. Furnaces are measured in how many BTUs they use per hour to achieve this temperature increase.
BTU is an acronym for British Thermal Unit. Although its name seems to suggest otherwise, it is no longer commonly used in the United Kingdom. BTU is a unit of measurement for energy. One BTU is equal to the amount of energy used to raise the temperature of one pound of water one degree Fahrenheit. In most applications the BTU has been replaced by the joule, but BTU remains a popular measurement of heating and cooling equipment. 
Most air conditioners have their capacity rated in British thermal units (Btu). A Btu is the amount of heat necessary to raise the temperature of 1 pound (0.45 kilograms) of water one degree Fahrenheit (0.56 degrees Celsius). One Btu equals 1,055 joules. In heating and cooling terms, one ton equals 12,000 Btu. A typical window air conditioner might be rated at 10,000 Btu. The energy efficiency rating (EER) of an air conditioner is its Btu rating over its wattage. As an example, if a 10,000-Btu air conditioner consumes 1,200 watts, its EER is 8.3 (10,000 Btu/1,200 watts).
A BTU is a measurement of thermal energy where one BTU is equal to the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of 1 pound of water by 1° Fahrenheit. Even small space heaters can produce thousands of BTUs. A central air conditioner, which uses hundreds of thousands of BTUs. A BTU, short for British thermal unit, is a basic measure of thermal (heat) energy. One BTU is the amount of energy needed to raise the temperature of 1 pound (0.45 kg) of water by 1° Fahrenheit (0.55° Celsius).
If measuring heat, a BTU measures the amount of heat that is  required to raise the temperature of a pound of water to 1Aº  1âº. Fahrenheit in terms of air, conditioning The … B tu determines  the amount of heat the unit can remove from the. room input of gas heater The heater has its own BTU rating separate from the gas and the heat transferred. Every heater has an efficiency rating... for instance, a heater can be ra … ted at 92%. This means that for every BTU burn in the heater, 92% of that BTU is transferred in to the water.
Mike McCune/Flickr. Definition: A British Thermal Unit (BTU) is the amount of heat energy needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree F. This is the standard measurement used to state the amount of energy that a fuel has as well as the amount of output of any heat generating device. 
The British thermal unit (BTU or Btu) is a traditional unit of work equal to about 1055 joules. It is the amount of work needed to raise the temperature of one pound of water by one degree Fahrenheit (Physical analogue: one four-inch wooden kitchen match consumed completely generates approximately 1 BTU). Definitions of the BTU based on different water temperatures can therefore vary by up to 0.5%. A BTU can be approximated as the heat produced by burning a single wooden kitchen match or as the amount of energy it takes to lift a one-pound weight 778 feet (237 m).
Definitions [edit]. A BTU is the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of 1 avoirdupois pound of liquid water by 1 degree Fahrenheit at a constant pressure of one atmosphere. calorie, several definitions of the BTU exist, because the temperature response of water to heat energy is non-linear. Definitions of the BTU based on different water temperatures can therefore vary by up to 0.5%. A BTU can be approximated as the heat produced by burning a single wooden kitchen match or as the amount of energy it takes to lift a one-pound weight 778 feet (237 m).