Magnesium provides many health benefits, both physical and mental. At the same time, many people do not consume enough magnesium to provide these benefits. The best way to ensure that your body has the magnesium you need is to eat a diet high in magnesium-rich foods such as vegetables, nuts, legumes and whole grains. But, if your diet is lacking in magnesium you may need to take a daily supplement. 
There is no evidence that potassium supplements are useful in the treatment of high blood pressure. Lack of potassium may cause muscle weakness, irregular heartbeat, mood changes, or nausea and vomiting. Injectable potassium is administered only by or under the supervision of your doctor. Although a balanced diet usually supplies all the potassium a person needs, potassium supplements may be needed by patients who do not have enough potassium in their regular diet or have lost too much potassium because of illness or treatment with certain medicines.
Eating foods that are rich in magnesium can be considered the best form of magnesium for absorption to meet the recommended magnesium intake, but even then, most people are still magnesium deficient. 
Absorption. The best form of potassium for absorption isn't really relevant. Dr. Elson Haas, author of Staying Healthy with Nutrition, explains that potassium is generally well absorbed in your small intestine. In fact, roughly 90 percent of ingested potassium is absorbed during the process of digestion. Photo Credit YelenaYemchuk/iStock/Getty Images. Diet is by far the best source of potassium. Many of the foods rich in potassium also contain an array of nutrients essential to your health. Beyond diet, potassium supplements are available, but you must use them only when directed to do so by a doctor.
Many people looking to take in higher quantities of potassium instead use high potassium foods (coconut water, potato skins, white beans, avocado, banana, etc.), electrolyte drinks (sports drinks, Pedialyte, etc.), and/or potassium salts that come in the form of tiny crystals or powder (like table salt). 
Magnesium Citrate. This is one of the most common forms of Mg on the commercial market. This is Mg bonded to citric acid, which increases the rate of absorption. Citrate is a larger molecule than the simple oxygen of oxide, so there is less magnesium by weight than in the oxide form. Mg oxide is the most poorly absorbed form but has the highest Mg per weight, so actually you may get more elemental magnesium out of the same dose of Mg oxide vs. another magnesium, simply because of the size. The other forms of magnesium are somewhere in the middle in terms
It is the safest option for correcting a long-term deficiency. Magnesium chloride -- Though magnesium chloride only contains around 12 percent elemental magnesium, it has an impressive absorption rate and is the best form of magnesium to take for detoxing the cells and tissues. 
Different: both are different electrolytes (and magnesium is essential for absorption of potassium. The biggest question is why you are taking them as supplements and what you need rafter than want. They are best taken with meals otherwise tend to cause upset stomach. ...Read more. What are the best over-the-counter potassium supplements? 2. Get help from a doctor now ›. Fruits & vegetables: All otc potassium supplements in the us are limited to 99 mg because more can irritate your stomach. 1 cup of tomatoes/1 cup of carrots or 1 banana = 4 of these pills. 1 baked potato or yam= 9 pills.