1 Snus is a variety of wet snuff, meaning that the substance in the pouch contains only about 30 percent tobacco and 70 percent water and flavoring. 2  Because of the existence of salt and flavoring, it promotes less saliva than other smokeless tobaccos. 3  You should start to notice the familiar tobacco head buzz soon. Buy a pack of snus. Snus comes in a few different varieties of strength, flavor and size. It's probably best to start with a lower strength variety unless you've already got a considerable nicotine tolerance from other tobacco products.
Marlboro Snus is a smokeless tobacco pouch product designed especially for adult smokers in the U.S. Snus pouches are not cigarettes or spitting tobacco like dip or chew. Marlboro Snus is a new, spitless, dry Swedish-style snus product. It appears to have been designed to appeal to smokers, and may have a high potential for dual use with cigarettes. Marlboro Snus is clearly an outgrowth of the recently developed Taboka dry snus product test marketed by Philip Morris.
1 Scandinavian snus is a moist form of smokeless tobacco which is usually placed under the upper lip, and which does not result in the need for spitting. 2  It is sold either as a moist powder known as loose snus, or prepackaged into pouches known as portion snus. The sale of snus is illegal in the European Union and Turkmenistan but, due to special exemptions, it is still manufactured and consumed primarily in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. The Russian State Duma drafted a bill which banned snus in Russia from 1 June 2013 onwards; however, it was never ratified.
Snus (/ˈsnuːs/ ; [snʉːs]) is a moist powder tobacco product originating from a variant of dry snuff in early 18th-century Sweden. It is placed under the upper lip for extended periods. Snus is not fermented and contains no added sugar. The sale of snus is illegal in the European Union and Turkmenistan but, due to special exemptions, it is still manufactured and consumed primarily in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. The Russian State Duma drafted a bill which banned snus in Russia from 1 June 2013 onwards; however, it was never ratified.
Camel Snus Flavors. Currently, there are five flavors of Camel Snus on the market, and they each have a different taste to them. Compared to Swedish Snus, American Snus tastes a little sweeter and less salty. Camel Robust and Winterchill snus was made available in the United States in the summer of 2010. 
Description. Camel Snus, a smokeless spitless tobacco product, consists of pasteurized tobacco portioned into 0.6 gram (Mellow, Frost) and 1.0 gram (Robust, Winterchill) pouches. Camel Snus is available in four flavors: Mellow, Robust, Frost, and Winterchill. Camel Snus by R.J. Reynolds is manufactured in Winston-Salem, North Carolina for sale within the United States. Japan Tobacco International (JTI) owns the international rights to the Camel brand name outside
And there's evidence that these nitrosamines -- or something else in snus -- are causing cancer. In Sweden and Norway, where snus originated, snus users have a significantly higher risk of pancreatic cancer. Snus are also linked to mouth sores, dental cavities, heart attack, stroke, and diabetes risk. And they do deliver nicotine -- an addictive drug.
How to Use Snus. Snus, the Swedish word for snuff, is a smokeless tobacco product that's easy to use and somewhat less messy than traditional snuff or dipping tobacco. It comes in a variety of flavors and sizes and is good for both the casual tobacco user and smokers hoping to cut back. Buy a pack of snus. Snus comes in a few different varieties of strength, flavor and size. It's probably best to start with a lower strength variety unless you've already got a considerable nicotine tolerance from other tobacco products.