Leukemia is cancer of the blood cells. It starts in the bone marrow, the soft tissue inside most bones. Bone marrow is where blood cells are made. 1  White blood cells help your body fight infection. 2  Red blood cells carry oxygen to all parts of your body. 3  Platelets help your blood clot.
In acute myelogenous leukemia, adults are more affected than children, and men than women. Even this acute form of the cancer is a curable one, but again there are several factors which influence this opinion. And finally, chronic myelogenous leukemia is again more common in adults than in children. Even this chronic form of leukemia, although treatable for most, is not a curable one. Besides the above mentioned, there is one rare type of leukemia known as hairy cell leukemia, that affects a few number of people. Whether leukemia is curable or not depends on several factors. The patient's age, his overall health, the kind of the cancer, and whether it has metastasized (spread to other parts of the body), influence the treatment.
1 Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. 2  Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. 3  There are different subtypes of AML. Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes abnormal myeloblasts (a type of white blood cell), red blood cells, or platelets. Adult acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. This type of cancer usually gets worse quickly if it is not treated
The goal of treatment for leukemia is to destroy the leukemia cells and allow normal cells to form in your bone marrow. Treatment decisions are based on the kind of leukemia you have, its stage, and your age and general health. 
Leukemia is a cancer of the early blood-forming cells. Most often, leukemia is a cancer of the white blood cells, but some leukemias start in other blood cell types. Leukemia is often described as being either acute (fast growing) or chronic (slow growing). Different types of leukemia have different treatment options and outlook
1 Adult acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a type of cancer in which the bone marrow makes too many lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell). 2  Leukemia may affect red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. 3  Previous chemotherapy and exposure to radiation may increase the risk of developing ALL. These cells are also called leukemia cells. These leukemia cells are not able to fight infection very well. Also, as the number of leukemia cells increases in the blood and bone marrow, there is less room for healthy white blood cells, red
Leukemia: Introduction. Leukemia is a type of cancer that occurs in the blood or bone marrow. Leukemia causes an uncontrolled growth of abnormal white blood cells, the infection fighting cells in the blood. Leukemia is one of the most common types of cancer and one of the top ten cancer killers. Leukemia is most treatable and curable if caught in the earliest stages of the disease. Untreated and/or advanced leukemia results in a proliferation of abnormal white blood cells that spread throughout the blood stream.
Yes, acute leukemia can be cured. Not everyone will be cured, but the percent of people who are is getting higher all the time. Leukemia is cancer of the white blood cells. The disease usually affects one of the two major types of white blood cells: lymphocytes and granulocytes. These cells circulate throughout the body to help the immune system fight off viruses, infections, and other invading organisms. 