Culantro leaves can be used in place of cilantro and last longer in the refrigerator. Here’s what I’ve learned about culantro according to the folks at www.chow.com : “ Culantro is native to Latin America and the Caribbean and is related to cilantro. It has tall, stiff, serrated leaves with a prominent central ridge and a more penetrating aroma than cilantro.
culantro = (Eryngium foetidum), a different plant with different-shaped leaves. All three (parsley, cilantro/coriander, and culantro) are related to one another, and culantro's flavor is often described as a much stronger version of cilantro. In some dishes they can be interchangeable, but often they are not. 
While relatively new to American cuisine, culantro has long been used in the Far East, Latin America, and the Caribbean. In Asia, culantro is most popular in Thailand, Malaysia, and Singapore where it is commonly used with or in lieu of cilantro and topped over soups, noodle dishes, and curries. ECOLOGY AND CULTURE. Culantro is native to continental tropical America and the West Indies (Adams 1971). It grows naturally throughout many Caribbean islands including Trinidad and Tobago, where it is abundant in forests particularly in disturbed areas as in slash and burn sites.
Although widely used in dishes throughout the Caribbean, Latin America, and the Far East, culantro is relatively unknown in the United States and many other parts of the world and is often mistaken and misnamed for its close relative cilantro or coriander (Coriandrum sativum L.). ECOLOGY AND CULTURE. Culantro is native to continental tropical America and the West Indies (Adams 1971). It grows naturally throughout many Caribbean islands including Trinidad and Tobago, where it is abundant in forests particularly in disturbed areas as in slash and burn sites.
Culantro, Eryngium foetidum, has long, serrated leaves and sports a blue flower when permitted to bolt. It is the leaves of culantro that are popular in Caribbean and Asian dishes. Culantro is also often called spiny cilantro and is not as widely available as cilantro. Check with your market's produce manager if you do not see any in with other fresh herbs. Culantro is not an alternate spelling of cilantro. Answer: Culantro is a completely different plant from cilantro (see link below for more information on cilantro). Although the two are cousins, they look nothing alike and are quite easy to differentiate by appearance
Commonly known as culantro in English-speaking Caribbean countries, Eryngium foetidum is also referred to as shado beni (from French chardon beni, béni meaning blessed, thistle not to be confused with the similarly Named cnicus) benedictus or (Bandhaniya: hindi, बन्धनिय meaning shrub). cilantro 1 In Peru it's known as sacha culantro or (jungle culantro) in the Amazon region where E. foetidum is a basic ingredient. 2  The rest of the country does not use it but use coriandrum sativum which is coriander but called culantro, which is different.
Eryngium foetidum is a tropical perennial and annual herb in the family Apiaceae. Its scientific Latin name literally translates as foul-smelling thistle. Common names include culantro (/kuːˈlɑːntroʊ/ or /kuːˈlaentroʊ/), Kuːˈlæntroʊ mexican coriander and long. coriander 1 In Peru it's known as sacha culantro or (jungle culantro) in the Amazon region where E. foetidum is a basic ingredient. 2  The rest of the country does not use it but use coriandrum sativum which is coriander but called culantro, which is different.
Culantro is rich in iron, carotene, riboflavin and calcium. Culantro's harvested leaves are widely used as a fresh herbaceous food flavoring and seasoning for meat and vegetable dishes, chutneys, preserves and sauces. It is a favored herb for tearing up and adding to hot bowls, specifically pho noodle soup. A common herb used in Asian, Latin American and Caribbean cuisines, culantro is increasingly becoming a globally traded crop to meet the demands of ethnic populations in the developed countries of the West, specifically large immigrant communities in London, New York, and Toronto.