Credit: NASA/ESA/A. Simon (Goddard Space Flight Center). Uranus: The sign for Uranus is a combination of two other signs – Mars’ sign and the symbol of the Sun – because the planet is connected to these two in mythology. Uranus represented heaven in Roman mythology, and this ancient civilization believed that the Sun’s light and Mars’ power ruled the heavens. 
Uranus for kidsDiscover the myths surrounding Uranus, the Primordial Greek god of the heavens and the sky. Uranus (Ouranos) featured in many of the tales and legends from ancient Greek mythology and was famously the father of the Titans and the consort of his mother Gaia. 
Though Uranus is visible to the naked eye like the five classical planets, it was never recognized as a planet by ancient observers because of its dimness and slow orbit. Sir William Herschel announced its discovery on March 13, 1781, expanding the known boundaries of the Solar System for the first time in history. Uranus is named after the ancient Greek deity of the sky Uranus (Ancient Greek: οὐρανός), the father of Cronus (Saturn) and grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter), which in Latin became Ūranus. It is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology. The adjective of Uranus is Uranian.
The astronomical symbol for Uranus is a circle with a dot at its center, with a spear pointing off the top. If this looks familiar, you’re right. The symbol for Uranus is actually combination of the symbol for the Sun mixed with the symbol for Mars. In Greek mythology, Uranus represented heaven, and represents the combined power of the Sun and spear of Mars. Uranus Symbol. The symbol for Uranus is also the same as the alchemical symbol for platinum. The astrological symbol of Uranus is actually different from the astronomical symbol.
The orbits of the regular moons are nearly coplanar with Uranus's equator, which is tilted 97.77° to its orbit. Uranus's irregular moons have elliptical and strongly inclined (mostly retrograde) orbits at large distances from the planet. Uranus, the seventh planet of the Solar System, has 27 known moons, all of which are named after characters from the works of William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. Uranus's moons are divided into three groups: thirteen inner moons, five major moons, and nine irregular moons.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun. 
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: Uranus. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. 
He was the father of Cronus (also known as Saturn in Roman mythology) and of the Cyclopes and Titans (predecessors of the Olympian gods). This is the symbol for Uranus: Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sunand the third largest of the nine planets (in size). Uranus is larger in size but smaller in weight than Neptune. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun and the third largest of the nine planets (in size). Uranus is larger in size but smaller in weight than Neptune. Like the other gas planets, Uranus has rings. Uranus' rings are very dark like Jupiter's rings. The rings are made up of fairly large particles ranging up to 10 meters across in addition to fine dust-much like the rings of Saturn. There are 11 known rings, all are very faint.
Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons. Uranus is named after the ancient Greek deity of the sky Uranus (Ancient Greek: οὐρανός), the father of Cronus (Saturn) and grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter), which in Latin became Ūranus. It is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology. The adjective of Uranus is Uranian.