STDs are sexually transmitted diseases. This means they are most often -- but not exclusively -- spread by sexual intercourse. HIV, chlamydia, genital herpes, genital warts, gonorrhea, some forms of hepatitis, syphilis, and trichomoniasis are STDs. STDs used to be called venereal diseases or VD. Most of the organisms are spread by vaginal, anal, or oral sex, but some, such as those that cause genital herpes and genital warts, may be spread through skin contact. You can get hepatitis B by sharing personal items, such as toothbrushes or razors, with someone who has it.
Your Guide to Sexually Transmitted Diseases. Sexually transmitted diseases, commonly called STDs, are diseases that are spread by having sex with someone who has an STD. You can get a sexually transmitted disease from sexual activity that involves the mouth, anus, vagina, or penis. According to the American Social Health Organization, one out of four teens in the United States becomes infected with an STD each year.
Skin-to-skin contact That’s right, guys – you can even get an STD by simple skin-on-skin touching. There are three venereal diseases that can spread this way: HPV, scabies and crabs. For more thorough information on HIV or STD's contact Health Education Services on campus or check out the American Social Health Association GET TESTED...GET TREATED!!!! Back to top HIV The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is the virus that causes AIDS. AIDS is a result of HIV infection.
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) can be transmitted without sex, that is, without intercourse. Even grandma kissing you at Christmas might pass on cold sores (a herpes virus). Chlymidia is a common STD and most people have never heard of it. Venereal diseases are often undiagnosed or hidden by symptoms that are common to other diseases. You can have an STD and never know it. STDs are more common than you might think. Your best protection is for you and your partner to be tested. STD testing can be done confidentially. You don't even need a doctor's visit for most tests. For more information on getting low cost and confidential STD testing check out: www.saveonlabs.com/categories/STD-Testing.
If you have symptoms of an STD, it's important to be tested. Some common symptoms of STDs include sores on the genitals, discharge from the penis or vagina, itching, and burning during urination. But remember, many infections often do not cause any symptoms. Many people get or spread infections without ever having symptoms. If you've had sex with another person and did not use a condom, female condom, dental dam, or other barrier, it's a good idea to talk to your health care provider about STD testing.
WARNING: You Could Get STDs from Counting Money. Having lots of paper money can make you happy, but they can make you unhealthy too. With thousands of bacteria in each, think about the germs we pass to other people and what they pass to us. Doctors Clarify How the STDs Spread. According to the medical experts, the majority of STDs don’t spread by merely contacting with dirty items, such as money, utensils, and toilet seats. You also don’t get them by swimming at public swimming pools where infected people swim as well.
The only way to know if you or anyone else has an STD is to get tested. Find a testing site near you here. You can’t always tell by the way someone “looks.” STDs are very common, and it only takes one sexual experience to get one. Even more to the point: STDs, including HIV, often have NO symptoms. Telling someone you have an STD is one of them. But it’s not just about you. Your partner needs to know so he or she can get tested and treated if necessary. Everyone gets an STD from someone else.
You can get a STD from vaginal, anal, or oral sex. You can also be infected with trichomoniasis through contact with damp or moist objects such as towels, wet clothing, or toilet seats, although it is more commonly spread by sexual contact. Most of the organisms are spread by vaginal, anal, or oral sex, but some, such as those that cause genital herpes and genital warts, may be spread through skin contact. You can get hepatitis B by sharing personal items, such as toothbrushes or razors, with someone who has it.
If you are infected with an STD your partner could be at risk. Further, if you get treated and your partner doesn’t get treated you run the risk of getting the STD again, from them. If you are nervous about telling your sex partner about your STD we can help. 
However, this does not mean you will not get them, especially when talking about genital warts. In fact, these warts can easily be spread through skin contact. What’s more alarming is that you don’t need to see the warts to get infected. Genital warts are often spread through vaginal, oral, and anal sex. It is important to stay clean after handling dirty cash by washing afterward. Doctors Clarify How the STDs Spread. According to the medical experts, the majority of STDs don’t spread by merely contacting with dirty items, such as money, utensils, and toilet seats. You also don’t get them by swimming at public swimming pools where infected people swim as well.