For best results, starting meats on the grill at an internal temperature of 50 to 55 degrees is great. Any internal warmth is better than 38-degree meat. Tempered meat produces a more desirable, even-cooked color and texture. Even a rare steak is better if it is cooked when the meat is not too cold. 
Best Answer: about 300 degree celsius is good for rare and medium rare if your steak is less than an inch. Gives it a nice grill marks fast and stake is still rare inside. make sure to give it a proper rest before serving. Hotter grill is better for nice grill marks. If you want to cook it to medium or more after the marks it's best to finish it off in oven in around 200 degree celsius so your steaks don have burnt sides.
Medium: Grill 10 minutes per side or to 155°F internal temperature. Check Internal Temperature. Remove steaks from the grill when a quick-response meat thermometer inserted through the side of the steak to its center reads the desired temperature below. To retain juices and reach final temperature, let steaks sit for 2 minutes before cutting. Steak Doneness
2. Let steaks sit at room temperature for about 10-15 minutes while your grill is pre-heating. Trim fat off around edge of steak and season liberally with kosher salt and fresh cracked pepper on both sides. 3. Heat your grill to a very hot temperature. Place the steaks on the hot grill to sear. Don’t move them for 2-3 minutes. If you want diagonal hatch marks, you can rotate your steak 45 degrees after a couple of minutes and then finish searing. Use the tongs again to flip steaks and sear the other side.
Directions. About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper. Place the steaks on the grill and cook until golden brown and slightly charred, 4 to 5 minute
Medium. To prepare a medium steak on the grill, cook to an internal temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit. When you press the steak, it should feel slightly firm with a pink center and a grayish burn on the outside. As a general rule, cook a 1-inch steak to medium by leaving it on the grill for 2 to 3 minutes per side. Well Done. A well-done steak needs an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit. To reach this internal temperature, you need to leave the steak on the grill for 4 to 5 minutes per side for a 1-inch steak or 8 to 9 minutes for a steak measuring 1 3/4 inches. Leave the steak on the grill for an extended period of time, only flipping the steak once after 5 minutes of grilling
Turn the steaks over and continue to grill 3 to 5 minutes for medium-rare (an internal temperature of 135 degrees F), 5 to 7 minutes for medium (140 degrees F) or 8 to 10 minutes for medium-well (150 degrees F). About 20 minutes before grilling, remove the steaks from the refrigerator and let sit, covered, at room temperature. Heat your grill to high. Brush the steaks on both sides with oil and season liberally with salt and pepper.
1 Using a digital instant-read meat thermometer, check the temperature of the steak while it’s still on the grill. 2  Grill the steak to your desired taste: 130°F for rare, 135°F medium-rare, 145°F medium, 150°F medium well and 160°F for well done. 