Bruising is a very general term for a condition in which blood leaks out of the blood vessels into the tissues of the skin, mucus membranes or other organs, including muscles and bones. Different types of bruises include contusions, hematomas and purpura. Contusions are common types of bruises that are caused by trauma, often blunt-force injury, that damages and breaks open the tiny blood vessels in the tissues of the skin, mucus membranes or other organs. Contusions are often accompanied by pain and swelling due to the body’s inflammatory response to injury
Bruises are bluish or purple-coloured patches that appear on the skin when tiny blood vessels, called capillaries, break or burst underneath. The blood from the capillaries leaks into the soft tissue under your skin, causing the discolouration. 
Black and blue marks are often associated with bruises. A bruise, or “contusion,” appears on the skin due to trauma. Examples of trauma are a cut or a blow to the area. The injury causes tiny blood vessels called capillaries to burst. 
Bruises change colors over time in a predictable pattern, so that it is possible to estimate when an injury occurred by the color of the bruise. Initially, a bruise will be reddish, the color of the blood under the skin. Definition. Bruises, or ecchymoses, are a discoloration and tenderness of the skin or mucous membranes due to the leakage of blood from an injured blood vessel into the tissues. Pupura refers to bruising as the result of a disease condition. A very small bruise is called a petechia
As a type of hematoma, a bruise is always caused by internal bleeding into the interstitial tissues which does not break through the skin, usually initiated by blunt trauma, which causes damage through physical compression and deceleration forces. Bruising present in a different location than the site of impact is called ectopic bruising and occurs when the tissue at the site of injury is loose, allowing blood to travel under the skin to another location due to gravity or other forces, such as in a black eye.
Bruises. Bruises are usually black or blue marks on the skin that appear after a bump or injury. Blood from damaged blood vessels beneath the skin collects near the surface of the skin resulting in the appearance of bruising. As well as accidents and bumps, causes of bruises include: 1  Bruises can occur in some people who exercise rigorously such as athletes and weightlifters. 2  These bruises result from microscopic tears in blood vessels under the skin.
Bruises develop when small blood vessels under the skin tear or rupture, most often from a bump or fall. Blood leaks into tissues under the skin and causes the black-and-blue color. 
Bruises Overview. A bruise is a common skin discoloration that results from the breakage of tiny blood vessels leaking under the skin after a traumatic injury. Blood from damaged blood vessels beneath the skin collects near the surface of the skin to appear as what we recognize as a black and blue mark. This mark is from skin discoloration by red blood cells and their contents. A bruise is also known as a contusion.
Most bruises form when small blood vessels (capillaries) near the skin's surface are broken by the impact of a blow or injury — often on the arms or legs. When this happens, blood leaks out of the vessels and initially appears as a black-and-blue mark. Eventually your body reabsorbs the blood, and the mark disappears. 