Xanax is a potent benzodiazepine, prescribed most frequently to sufferers of anxiety or panic disorders. Xanax causes a decrease in anxiety through an increase in GABA (a neurotransmitter) in the brain. This increase in GABA calms and soothes an excited mind, and can be very pleasant. Xanax works fast and has a relatively short half-life, and this means that after quitting – withdrawal symptoms begin quickly. Most people will start to feel symptoms within 12 hours, and symptoms will peak within 3-4 days. Residual and lingering symptoms of withdrawal can last for months.
On average, withdrawal from Xanax lasts 2 months or more. A good rule of thumb I like to go by is the 90 day rule for any psychiatric medication. In most cases, withdrawal symptoms subside by the third month of not taking the medication. Larry, I have been on Xanax 0.25 mg three times a day for the last twenty years (20) for Panic Disorder. I had my initial Panic Attack while a student in Air Traffic Controller School. My max daily dosage is 1.5 mg-1.75 mg, and I can feel myself building up a tolerance to it.
24 – 72 hours Xanax withdrawal – During the first hours of Xanax withdrawal, you are at highest risk of seizures. Being monitored might be a good option if you have experience withdrawal seizures in the past or have a history of neurological disorders. Symptoms of Xanax withdrawal can last anywhere from several weeks to several months. But the major withdrawal symptoms present during Xanax detox should resolve within about a month. However, people have reported cases of insomnia, heightened anxiety, and cravings long after the initial 30 days of Xanax withdrawal.
Seizures attributable to XANAX were seen after drug discontinuance or dose reduction in 8 of 1980 patients with panic disorder or in patients participating in clinical trials where doses of XANAX greater than 4 mg/day for over 3 months were permitted. Dependence And Withdrawal Reactions, Including Seizures. Certain adverse clinical events, some life-threatening, are a direct consequence of physical dependence to XANAX. These include a spectrum of withdrawal symptoms; the most important is seizure (see Drug Abuse And Dependence).
Xanax Withdrawal Symptoms. Xanax works fast and has a relatively short half-life, and this means that after quitting – withdrawal symptoms begin quickly. Most people will start to feel symptoms within 12 hours, and symptoms will peak within 3-4 days. Residual and lingering symptoms of withdrawal can last for months.
Hi Andy. Xanax withdrawal varies from person to person depending on a lot of factors. But, if you took that dose for a month and a couple of weeks, I’d say it will last about week (of course, this can vary). My tip is to stay away from caffeine and try to eat some dark chocolate and some vitamin supplements. Symptoms of Xanax withdrawal can last anywhere from several weeks to several months. But the major withdrawal symptoms present during Xanax detox should resolve within about a month. However, people have reported cases of insomnia, heightened anxiety, and cravings long after the initial 30 days of Xanax withdrawal.
Xanax is arguably the hardest pharmaceutical to on the market to detox from. The withdrawal symptoms of Xanax are not only excruciating, but can be life-threatening as benzodiazepine withdrawal can induce seizures or provoke suicides. After stabilization of the more adverse withdrawal symptoms, the less acute symptoms may persist for a year or more after complete cessation. The duration of Xanax withdrawal and severity of the acute and post-acute withdrawal symptoms are dependent on the dose and time-span it was administered.
1 Depression: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally three times a day. 2  The dose can be increased by no more than 1 mg every three to four days. 3  An average dose of 3 mg of Xanax daily in divided doses has shown to be most effective. 4  Maximum dose should not exceed 4.5 mg daily in divided doses. 1 Panic: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 2  This dose can be increased every three to four days. 3  The maintenance dose of Xanax is between 1 mg to 10 mg per day in divided doses (with an average dose ranging between 5 mg to 6 mg per day).
1 Anxiety: An initial dose of 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 2  The dose can be increased gradually every three to four days up to maximum daily dose of 4 mg in divided doses. 3  Panic: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 1 Panic: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 2  This dose can be increased every three to four days. 3  The maintenance dose of Xanax is between 1 mg to 10 mg per day in divided doses (with an average dose ranging between 5 mg to 6 mg per day).