On Professional editions of Windows, you can enable logon auditing to have Windows track which user accounts log in and when. The Audit logon events setting tracks both local logins and network logins. Each logon event specifies the user account that logged on and the time the login took place. Look for events with event ID 4624 – these represent successful login events. To see more information – such as the user account that logged into the computer – you can double-click the event and scroll down in the text box.
The IP is a computer's identification on the web. To find out how many are in your wireless routers memory-meaning the clients may or may not be on the web, but were recently-you'd need to find the address to your router's interface, or options screen. I don't want to stop anyone (not just yet) i just want to be able to look at my computer and tell exactly how many people are logged on to my wireless. I have looked this up on internet but i keep getting advice on how to block people.
Description. WHAT: Each time someone logs into (unlocking does not count) a Windows computer on the network (or Domain) the date, time, username, computer name, IP address, and mac address are logged to a remote .csv file. 
Best Answer: Log onto your router's configuration page. You will need the documentation that came with your router to know how to do so but normally you simply type in the router's IP address into your browser and you will be presented with a login screen. Once you are logged into the router you might consider turning on WEP which will require anyone trying to connect to your network to log in with a password. Go to the security page of your router's setup an check the box to turn on security. You will be prompted to assign a password to your network and anyone attempting to gain access to your network will need to know that password in order to log o
I'm going to use Windows Vista examples to describe what we can look at, but Windows XP is very similar-perhaps even simpler. First, click on Start and then Run (or type Windows Key + R), and enter eventvwr: Press OK to start the Windows Event Viewer. •. Yes, we can probably tell when your computer was booted, and even when it was logged into. But no, we can't tell what that person did once they were logged in; at least not to the granularity that you're looking for.
Now click on Security. It revealed a list of logs, and you'll see a list of security related events that have occurred on your machine: In the example above, you can see that I've highlighted an event logged when I logged into my own machine. In fact, if you look closely you can see that I logged off at 4:02 AM (when this machine automatically reboots each night), and logged on at 8:47 AM, shortly after getting up. •. Yes, we can probably tell when your computer was booted, and even when it was logged into. But no, we can't tell what that person did once they were logged in; at least not to the granularity that you're looking for.
To check to see if somebody else is logged into your computer, you can use the following key combination, CTRL-SHIFT-ESC (or right-click the Task Bar, and then click Task Manager), and then click on the Users tab. This will only show people logged in directly, or through remote desktop. If somebody is logged on to a network share, you can right-click My Computer, click Manage, expand Shared Folders, click on Sessions. Anybody connected will show up in the right pane. I hope this helps. ShawnLam, Consultant
Viewing Logon Events. After enabling this setting, Windows will log logon events – including a username and time – to the system security log. To view these events, open the Event Viewer – press the Windows key, type Event Viewer, and press Enter to open it. Look for events with event ID 4624 – these represent successful login events. To see more information – such as the user account that logged into the computer – you can double-click the event and scroll down in the text box.