Internalization (or internalisation) has different definitions depending on the field that the term is used in. Internalization is the opposite of externalization. Generally, internalization is the process of consolidating and embedding one's own beliefs, attitudes, and values when it comes to moral behavior. The accomplishment of this may involve the deliberate use of psychoanalytical or behavioral methods. Internalization is also often associated with learning (for example, learning ideas or skills) and making use of what has been learned from then on. The notion of internalization therefore also finds currency in applications in education, learning, and training, and in business and management thinking.
BREAKING DOWN 'Internalization'. Brokerage firms internalize securities orders to take advantage of the difference between what they purchased shares for and what they sell them for, known as the spread. For example, a firm may see a greater spread by selling its own shares than by selling them on the open market. In investing, internalization refers to the decision by a brokerage firm to fill a buy order for shares of security from its own inventory of shares rather than seeking to execute the trade using outside inventory. Next Up.
By Ashley Crossman. Definition: Internalization is a process through which we come to identify parts of our culture as parts of ourselves, especially in relation to norms and values. 
Noun. 1. internalisation-learning (of values or attitudes etc.) that is incorporated within yourself. internalization, incorporation. learning, acquisition-the cognitive process of acquiring skill or knowledge; the child's acquisition of language. 
Internalisation (or internalization) in sociology and other social sciences is the process of acceptance of a set of norms and values established by people or groups which are influential to the individual through the process of socialisation. Role models often speed up the process of socialisation and encourages the speed of internalisation as if someone an individual respects is seen to endorse a particular set of norms, the individual is more likely to be prepared to accept, and so internalise, those norms.
DEFINITION of 'Internalization'. A transaction conducted within the confines of a corporation rather than in the open market. Internalization can apply to a multinational corporation shifting assets between subsidiaries cross border. In investing, internalization refers to the decision by a brokerage firm to fill a buy order for shares of security from its own inventory of shares rather than seeking to execute the trade using outside inventory. Next Up.
Internalization. Internalization has different definitions depending on the field that the term is used in. Internalization is the opposite of externalization. Generally, internalization is the process of consolidating and embedding one's own beliefs, attitudes, and values when it comes to moral behavior. The accomplishment of this may involve the deliberate use of psychoanalytical or behavioral methods.
• INTERNALISATION (noun). The noun INTERNALISATION has 1 sense: 1. learning (of values or attitudes etc.) that is incorporated within yourself. Familiarity information: INTERNALISATION used as a noun is very rare. 
John Finley Scott described internalisation as a metaphor in which something (i.e. an idea, concept, action) moves from outside the mind or personality to a place inside of it. The structure and the happenings of society shapes one’s inner self and it can also be reversed. Role models often speed up the process of socialisation and encourages the speed of internalisation as if someone an individual respects is seen to endorse a particular set of norms, the individual is more likely to be prepared to accept, and so internalise, those norms.