Here is a great technique for when you need to remove blood stains in a hurry or on the go: 1  Take two sheets of paper towels (the thicker the better). 2  Place one of the sheets underneath the stained area. 3  Take the other sheet and soak it in water. 4  Place the wet sheet on top of the stained area and apply pressure. The object is to get the blood out of the fabric, not to force it deeper into the garment. This stain removal method will work quickly and easily to save your clothing: 1  Let the tap run to get the water really cold. 2  Flush as much of the blood out of the clothing by holding it under the running faucet.
1 The following common household items can be used to remove blood stains: baking soda, white, unseasoned meat tenderizer, salt, or hydrogen peroxide along with cold water. 2  For baking soda and meat tenderizer, make a paste using cold water and apply to the stain. 3  Let it set for 15-30 minutes and rinse with cold water. Blood Stain Removal. It is easiest to remove blood when it is still wet. Dried blood stains are notoriously harder to remove. Also be sure throughout the process to blot the stain, not rub it, as this will only push the stain further into the fabric. Use the following steps until the stain is removed.
As common as blood stains are, you may get conflicting advice about how to remove them. The BBC strongly recommends not using hot water to remove a blood stain because it could make the stain set in; instead soak the fabric in a quart of cold water with two tablespoons of table salt or ammonia. Real Simple has a guide for removing blood stains that combines all of these ingredients, from the cold water soak and hydrogen peroxide treatment to machine washing the stains off with an enzyme-based laundry detergent.
­­­­­­­­­­. ­­. Blood­ is one ­of the most difficult substances to remove once it has stained a fabric, surface, or laundry. ­However, stain removal can be accomplished with some help, usually with everyday items that can be found around the house. The first step in removing blood stains is to identify the stained material.­ ­­. ­Below are the most common types of materials that can become blood-stained, with steps on how to remove blood from each: 1  Non-washable fibers such as Acetate, Burlap, Fiberglass, Rayon, Rope, Silk, Triacetate, or Wool.
Wash the fabric with water. If the blood stain is gone, wash the fabric with water to remove all the lemon salt solution. If the blood stain remains, moisten the fabric and let it dry under the sun again. Run cold water over the back of the fabric, so it pushes through the stain. Hold the fabric in the running water for several minutes, and the stain should be at least slightly smaller. 1  Warning: never wash a blood stain in warm or hot water, which may cause it to bond permanently to the fibres of the fabric.
Removing Fresh Blood Stains. Usually blood stains are removed very easily with a sponge or paper towels dipped in cold water. If the blood stains are on a counter surface, sink or other area where germs may congregate and come in contact with people, be sure to use a sanitizer spray or wipe thoroughly with Clorox. 1 First remove as much as you can by rinsing the item using only plain cold water-add a dab of dish soap to your fingers to help break up the blood. 2  Do NOT USE HEAT. 3  Heat will set blood stains and make them permanent. 4  This means to use COLD WATER only, not warm or hot.
If you’re not a fan of using dishwashing detergent or ammonia to get blood out of carpet, here is another way to tackle removing the stain. 1  Fill a spray bottle with cold water (if you don’t have a spray bottle, you can wet a white cloth and apply it to the stain.). 2  Spray the cold water onto the blood stain. 1 Fill a spray bottle with cold water (if you don’t have a spray bottle, you can wet a white cloth and apply it to the stain.). 2  Spray the cold water onto the blood stain. 3  If the stain is rather large, spray the stain from the outside, working your way in.
4. Remove blood stains from carpet. There are several methods to use to remove blood stains from a carpet. It is recommended that you use the gentlest method (Water Method) first and then proceed with the stronger removal methods for stubborn blood stains. This is the easiest way to get rid of fresh blood, and it works well if you can catch it right away. If your stain is in a carpet, mattress, or heavy furniture that cannot be soaked, use a clean cloth or sponge to blot the stain. Don't use hot water-this could cause the blood to set in the fabric.