Take a ride through nature on the spectacular Great Ocean Road, which winds alongside the wild and windswept Southern Ocean. Drive Victoria's Great Ocean Road, home to the world class surf at Bells Beach and the craggy limestone spires of the Twelve Apostles. This dramatic region also offers fishing villages, migrating whales, shipwrecks, golden beaches, rainforests and national parks. The Great Southern Touring Route turns the romance of the road trip into a grand love affair. Drive along the Great Ocean Road past the iconic surf spots of Torquay and Bells Beach, then onto the holiday haven of Lorne and the magnificent
Travel from Melbourne to Adelaide along the country's breathtaking south-east coastline. Drive the Great Ocean Road past the iconic surf spots of Torquay and Bells Beach, then onto the holiday haven of Lorne and the magnificent Twelve Apostles. The Great Southern Touring Route turns the romance of the road trip into a grand love affair. Drive along
Welcome to Great Ocean Road Resort. Located just over an hour's drive from Melbourne is the seaside town of Anglesea. Situated on the spectacular Great Ocean Road, pristine beaches, rugged sandstone cliffs and scenic natural forests make Anglesea one of the region's most popular weekend getaway and holiday destinations.
Destinations. Travel one of the world's most scenic roads through the Great Ocean Road region which covers south-west Victoria and is home to the famous 12 Apostles. Stop at Port Campbell on your Great Ocean Road trip and admire the spectacular coastline scenery of Port Campbell National Park and the
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Great Ocean Road is an Australian National Heritage listed 243 kilometres (151 mi) stretch of road along the south-eastern coast of Australia between the Victorian cities of Torquay and Allansford. The Great Ocean Road starts at Torquay and travels 244 kilometres westward to finish at Allansford near Warrnambool, the largest city along the road.
A 45 kilometre section of the Great Ocean Road, between Lorne and Apollo Bay is the location of the annual Great Ocean Road Marathon. First run in 2005, the current marathon record of two hours, 27 minutes and 42 seconds was set in 2011 by James Kipkelwon, of Kenya, who also won the event in 2012. The Great Ocean Road starts at Torquay and travels 244 kilometres westward to finish at Allansford near Warrnambool, the largest city along the road.
What is the physical address of the 12 Apostles? The 12 Apostles are located on the corner of Booringa Rd and Great Ocean Road in Princetown 3269. They are a part of Port Campbell National Park. The entrance to the car park is 6km west of the township of Princetown and 12km east of the township of Port Campbell. The 12 Apostles are accessible from Melbourne via the Great Ocean Road (4.25 hrs) and via the Princes Hwy (3.25 hrs). Which ever way you arrive remember the 12 Apostles is just one area in what is one of Australia's most spectacular coastal National Parks
Great Ocean Road. Travel one of the world's most scenic roads through the Great Ocean Road region which covers south-west Victoria and is home to the famous 12 Apostles. Stop at Port Campbell on your Great Ocean Road trip and admire the spectacular coastline scenery of Port Campbell National Park and the
Great Ocean Road Motor Inn is located at Port Campbell, a sleepy fishing village nestled amongst some of the most spectacular coastline scenery. The Great Ocean Road Motor Inn is in a quiet location at the northern end of this small village and the car entrance is as the back of the property off Desailly Street.
Chelsea, Australia. Located opposite the Angelsea River and just 5 minutes' walk from Anglesea Beach, Great Ocean Road Resort offers an onsite restaurant, a bar, an indoor heated pool, a tennis court and a day spa. All accommodation includes free WiFi and free parking. Great Ocean Road Resort is a 5-minute drive from Anglesea Golf Club.