Polyurethane synthesis, wherein the urethane groups — NH-(C=O)-O-link the molecular units. Polyurethane (PUR and PU) is a polymer composed of organic units joined by carbamate (urethane) links. Polyurethanes, especially those made using aromatic isocyanates, contain chromophores that interact with light. This is of particular interest in the area of polyurethane coatings, where light stability is a critical factor and is the main reason that aliphatic isocyanates are used in making polyurethane coatings.
Polyurethane. Polyurethanes are linear polymers that have a molecular backbone containing carbamate groups (-NHCO2). These groups, called urethane, are produced through a chemical reaction between a diisocyanate and a polyol. First developed in late 1930s, polyurethanes are some of the most versatile polymers. They are used in building insulation, surface coatings, adhesives, solid plastics, and athletic apparel. While polyurethane polymers are used for a vast array of applications, their production method can be broken into three distinct phases. First, the bulk polymer product is made. Next, the polymer is exposed to various processing steps.
Polyurethanes are the most well known polymers used to make foams. If you're sitting on a padded chair right now, the cushion is more than likely made of a polyurethane foam. Polyurethanes are more than foam. Much more than foam! Polyurethanes are the single most versatile family of polymers there is. Polyurethanes can be elastomers, and they can be paints.
Polyurethane is derived from a chemical reaction of a diisocyanate with a polyol. Once this reaction has occurred, a substance is created that is safe and extremely versatile. It can have a number of diverse properties (resilience, flexibility, rigidity), depending on the choice of combined substances. Essentially, all polyurethanes belong to the same chemical family. They are created by means of a chemical reaction combining a diisocyanate and a polyol. There is a wide range of these two substances that can be combined, rather like a tool kit.
Non-isocyanate based polyurethanes (NIPUs) have recently been developed as a new class of polyurethane polymers to mitigate health and environmental concerns. Polyurethane products often are simply called “urethanes”, but should not be confused with ethyl carbamate, which is also called urethane. Polyurethanes, especially those made using aromatic isocyanates, contain chromophores that interact with light. This is of particular interest in the area of polyurethane coatings, where light stability is a critical factor and is the main reason that aliphatic isocyanates are used in making polyurethane coatings.
Polyurethane is a resilient, flexible and durable manufactured material that can take the place of paint, cotton, rubber, metal or wood in thousands of applications across virtually all fields. It can be hard like fiberglass, squishy like upholstery foam, protective like varnish, bouncy like rubber or sticky like glue. 
Polyurethane foams are now used in high-temperature oil filter applications. Polyurethane foam (including foam rubber) is sometimes made using small amounts of blowing agents to give less dense foam, better cushioning/energy absorption or thermal insulation. Polyurethanes, especially those made using aromatic isocyanates, contain chromophores that interact with light. This is of particular interest in the area of polyurethane coatings, where light stability is a critical factor and is the main reason that aliphatic isocyanates are used in making polyurethane coatings.
They are comprised of two chemicals which, when mixed and heated, form liquid polyurethane prior to being further processed. These chemicals are polyol, a type of complex alcohol, and diisocyanate, a petroleum byproduct that reacts strongly with alcohol. By combining the two, a stable long-chain molecule is formed. 