Obelisk of Sesostris I, XII dynasty, Middle Kingdom. An obelisk is a stone made monument, much like a column but supporting nothing. Obelisks were erected by Ancient Egyptians for an commemoration. Obelisks were usually made of a single piece of stone. A bird's eye view of obelisk is square and this structure has gradually tapering four sides and its ends in a pyramidal top. 
The obelisk at Edinburgh, seen at the left, is made of ashlar, not a single piece of stone. Queen Hatshepsut of the Eighteenth Dynasty erected some six obelisks in the 16th year of her reign, around 1485 BC. There is no inscription on it, as on an Egyptian obelisk, but the representation of doors on the ground floor and windows above. An attempt was made to construct a 108 ft high stele, but this was too ambitious, and it lies fallen in the same area.
The true Egyptian obelisk was made from a single block of red granite or similar rock, and its pyramidal top, the pyramidion, was sheathed in gold or electrum, and was about a tenth of the total height. It was an offering to the sun god Re, whose rays glistened at its top. There is no inscription on it, as on an Egyptian obelisk, but the representation of doors on the ground floor and windows above. An attempt was made to construct a 108 ft high stele, but this was too ambitious, and it lies fallen in the same area.
An obelisk was a monument made of stone. Each obelisk was placed in a public place. In ancient Egypt, obelisks were often built in pairs. Some were not very high. But some were seventy feet (70 feet!) tall. An obelisk has four sides and tapers towards the top to a pyramid shaped point. In ancient Egypt, these huge structures were cut from one huge piece of incredibly heavy stone. The ancient Egyptians were clever.
The London and New York obelisks are a pair and originate from the Egyptian city of Heliopolis (now Cairo). They are made of red granite, they are 21 metres (69 ft) high and weigh about 224 tons. The obelisk in New York was erected in Central Park in 1881. It was rediscovered broken to pieces in 1587 along with the Lateran obelisk and placed in it’s current location. Obelisks From Around The World: Flaminio Obelisk, Piazza del Popolo, Rome, Italy. 10. Obelisk of Axum, Axum, Ethiopia – A 24 meters tall (79 ft) granite obelisk.
Augustus also brought two obelisks to Rome. One was erected in the Circus Maximus, and the other in the Campus Martius as a large sundial, the Solarium or Horologium, in 10 BC. The first mentioned was a porphyry obelisk of Psamtik I, 75 feet high. There is no inscription on it, as on an Egyptian obelisk, but the representation of doors on the ground floor and windows above. An attempt was made to construct a 108 ft high stele, but this was too ambitious, and it lies fallen in the same area.
Obelisk making technology in ancient Egypt is an archaeological matter that is not entirely understood today. Ancient Egyptian Obelisks are tapering stone pillars which have a square cross-section, were used for ornamental purposes in temples and had religious or socio-political connotations. They were generally made from granite coming from well-known quarries located near the banks of the Nile, mainly in the region of Aswan.
Obelisk. The Pharaohs of Ancient Egypt made it. And the Roman Emperors made its replicas. Really a lot of obelisks were made, from a small one as less than 1 meter to a large one as more than 30 meters. But there are about 30+ obelisks at present, which are large-size ones standing outdoors.