The Eastern Ghats or Pūrva Ghaṭ, also known as Mahendra Pravata, are a discontinuous range of mountains along India 's eastern coast. North of the Palar River in Andhra Pradesh, the central portion of the Eastern Ghats consist of two parallel ranges running approximately north-south. The lower Velikonda Range lies to the east and the higher Palikonda-Lankamalla-Nallamalla Ranges lie to the west.
The eastern region of the Western Ghats which lie in the rain shadow, receive far less rainfall averaging about 1,000 mm (40 in) bringing the average rainfall figure to 2,500 mm (150 in). Data from rainfall figures reveal that there is no relationship between the total amount of rain received and the spread of the area. There are about 50 major dams along the length of the Western Ghats with the earliest project up in 1900 near Khopoli in Maharashtra. Most notable of these projects are the Koyna Hydroelectric Project in Maharashtra, the Parambikulam Dam in Kerala, and the Linganmakki Dam in Karnataka.
The Bilgiri Hills connects the Eastern and the Western Ghats by forming a ecological, forested corridor, running from the east of the Western Ghats up to River Kaveri. The forest region also serves as an important route for the elephants. The southern part of the Eastern Ghats is the Karanthamalai and Sirumalai Hills located in the south of Tamil Nadu. The central region of the Eastern Ghats comprise of 2 parallel ranges, namely the lower Velikonda Range in the east, and the higher Palikonda-Lankamalla-Nallamalla Ranges in the west.
The Eastern Ghats thus bear an ecological significance as well, like the Western Ghats. Flora and Fauna of the Eastern Ghats. The diverse environmental niches and ecological situation offers a great habitat for a rich and varied flora and fauna. The ranges house many Asiatic elephants. Apart from that, you can also find Leopards, Gaurs, Nilgiri Tahr, Sambar, and tigers etc. The southern part of the Eastern Ghats is the Karanthamalai and Sirumalai Hills located in the south of Tamil Nadu. The central region of the Eastern Ghats comprise of 2 parallel ranges, namely the lower Velikonda Range in the east, and the higher Palikonda-Lankamalla-Nallamalla Ranges in the west.
The mountain ranges run parallel to the Bay of Bengal. The Deccan Plateau lies to the west of the range, between the Eastern Ghats and Western Ghats. The coastal plains, including the Coromandel Coast region, lie between the Eastern Ghats and the Bay of Bengal. The Eastern Ghats are not as high as the Western Ghats. North of the Palar River in Andhra Pradesh, the central portion of the Eastern Ghats consist of two parallel ranges running approximately north-south. The lower Velikonda Range lies to the east and the higher Palikonda-Lankamalla-Nallamalla Ranges lie to the west.
The Western Ghats has to be made an ecologically sensitive zone. It is as important as the ecological system of the Himalayas for protection of the environment and climate of the country. There are about 50 major dams along the length of the Western Ghats with the earliest project up in 1900 near Khopoli in Maharashtra. Most notable of these projects are the Koyna Hydroelectric Project in Maharashtra, the Parambikulam Dam in Kerala, and the Linganmakki Dam in Karnataka.
Much older than the Western Ghats, the Eastern Ghats are located at a height lower than the former. The ranges are situated within 76° 50′ and 86 ° 30 E longitudes and 11° 30′ and 22° N latitude. Extremely fertile, the Eastern Ghats sprawls over an approximate area of 75,000 square km. The southern part of the Eastern Ghats is the Karanthamalai and Sirumalai Hills located in the south of Tamil Nadu. The central region of the Eastern Ghats comprise of 2 parallel ranges, namely the lower Velikonda Range in the east, and the higher Palikonda-Lankamalla-Nallamalla Ranges in the west.
BIODIVERSITY. The Biodiversity or the Biological diversity refers to the different genera and species of organisms present in an area. The degree of species diversity varies from one ecosystem to the other. India is a very rich country in terms of the rich flora and fauna present in the natural ecosystems. The Western Ghats form an important habitat for the ferns and fern-allies and hence, they are one of the important biodiversity centers rich in pteridophytic diversity. About 300 species of pteridophytes are figured to be present in the Western Ghats.