Muslim Baby and Islamic names database provides meaning of Islamic muslim baby boys or girls (male and female) names both in english and urdu, if there are any errors, please report to the editor or submit additional meanings, names and history of muslim names that you think should be included in our database. 
Find Saima meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Saima name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Saima. Bcz SAima is my heart my life can't pass with out SAima she is vey very simple girl. Saima name bhooooooooooot acha h i, i like this name. saima is my mother name she coock very good thank you god for give me world nice mother. SAIMA BHUT ACHA NAAM HAI.
A saima is an Arabic word for goddess. A saima is usually the person doing squats in the gym. Saima is known for the best looking lower body. Saimas' are very soft spoken and polite. Saimas' usually worry about what other people think. If you run into a saima, she is a keeper so hold on to her.
Saima means a fasting girl (a girl who practices retrains in the way of allah. Saima means a fasting girl, a girl who is poius and loyal to God performing her duty of fasting as suggested by GOD. Saima means fasting girl(a girl who practices retrains in the of Allah). Saima means a fasting women that means should patient enough to obey allah with full of eman. Saima also appears in following countries/origins/languages: Afghan, Arabic, Australian, Danish, Finnish. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Saima in Muslim origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
Saima is an Arabic name for girls that means “pious woman who fasts often”. It is derived from the SAAD-W-M root which is used in the Quran, thus Saima is an indirect Quranic name. Saima can also be written as Saaima, Sa’ima, Saimah, Saaimah, among others. It is pronounced [(SA)nd] + [(I)slam] + [(MU)st] with emphasis on the first syllable. Click here to cancel reply.
My elder sis name saima and she is so beautiful. i luv saima bcz my name is saima. my wife name is saima. my bhabi s name is saima,she is so sweet and nice i love her. Want to my daughter name. saima is very good name i love a girl when i was child her name was saima she was so sweet and loving. I love SAima name. Bcz SAima is my heart my life can't pass with out SAima she is vey very simple girl. Saima name bhooooooooooot acha h i, i like this name. saima is my mother name she coock very good thank you god for give me world nice mother. SAIMA BHUT ACHA NAAM HAI.
[ syll. sai-ma, sa-ima ] The baby girl name Saima is pronounced as S EY-MAH †. Saima is of Arabic origin. The meaning of Saima is 'a fasting woman'. Variants of Saima include Saimah, Saimma, and Sayima. Saima is uncommon as a baby girl name. It is not listed within the top 1000. 
The eyeballs of a baby normally look larger as compared to the size of the head of the baby and or its complete size. This is because their eye balls as compared to human eye balls are just about 75%. This means only 25% eye balls grow at a later stage. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Saima in Muslim origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details.
Saima has different meaning depending upon the nationallity the name was choosen from. Most popular in Arabic countries. Originated in Central Asia. Arabic-Fasting woman of the lord. Making the world better, one answer at a time. 