Goldstone. Goldstone is a type of glittering glass made in a low-oxygen reducing atmosphere. The finished product can take a smooth polish and be carved into beads, figurines, or other artifacts suitable for semiprecious stone, and in fact goldstone is often mistaken for or misrepresented as a natural material. Another common name for the material is aventurine glass, based on the original Italian name avventurina (from avventura, adventure or chance).
Often mistaken as a mineral, goldstone is actually a glittering man made glass. It is typically reddish brown with coppery flecks but also comes in green, blue, and purple, with more silvery specks. The other varieties are named after it, like green goldstone, blue goldstone, etc. Each of the spangles in goldstone is a microscopic copper crystal that formed as the glass cooled. Goldstone shares the metal's metaphysical properties: attracting abundance, harmonizing relationships, and creativity. Because copper is a good conductor of electricity, it is a popular tool to direct spiritual energy
The most common goldstone is a reddish-brown colour with tiny glittery bits. Goldstone is a man-made gemstone, first created by alchemists trying to make gold. Not really a gemstone, more of a glass bead. Created using copper and copper salts with a reducing flame. Goldstone Gemstone Meanings-Emotional, Spiritual, etc. 1  Goldstone is great for positive energy. 2  Goldstone renews strength. 3  Goldstone is a transmitter stone. 4  Goldstone balances energies. 5  Goldstone symbolises human ingenuity to improve your life.
Goldstone Gemstone Meanings, Properties & Qualities. The most common goldstone is a reddish-brown colour with tiny glittery bits. Goldstone is a man-made gemstone, first created by alchemists trying to make gold. Not really a gemstone, more of a glass bead. Created using copper and copper salts with a reducing flame.
Shop. Name Origin: Goldstone is a type of glittering glass made in a low-oxygen reducing atmosphere. Another common name for the material is aventurine glass, based on the original Italian name “avventurina” (from avventura, adventure or chance). Goldstone is a man-made gemstone, first created by alchemists trying to make gold. Not really a gemstone, more of a glass bead. Created using copper and copper salts with a reducing flame.
Alternate Names or Spellings: Stone of Ambition. Goldstone is said to help attain one's goals. Goldstone is also said to help one stay calm and stabilize the emotions. It can be used as an energy generator and can deflect unwanted energies, making it used as a protection stone. It is also used for long distance healing and revitalizing one's energy field. Goldstone was said to be originally created by French monks, and in time the secret was lost. It's been rediscovered or recreated in modern times, though, and goldstone is a popular material because of its beauty as well as its metaphysical properties lore.