The 1 g vial may be reconstituted for intravenous and subcutaneous use with 10 mL Bacteriostatic Water for Injection USP with benzyl alcohol. The resulting solution contains 100 mg of cytarabine per mL. (Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection USP with benzyl alcohol as a diluent for intrathecal use. In the induction therapy of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia, the usual cytarabine dose in combination with other anticancer drugs is 100 mg/m 2 /day by continuous IV infusion (days 1 to 7) or 100 mg/m 2 IV every 12 hours (days 1 to 7).
(Redirected from Intrathecal). Intrathecal administration is a route of administration for drugs via an injection into the spinal canal, more specifically into the subarachnoid space so that it reaches the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and is useful in spinal anaesthesia, chemotherapy, or pain management applications. For example, intrathecal immunoglobulin production is production of antibodies in the spinal cord. The abbreviation IT is best not used; instead, intrathecal is spelled out to avoid medical mistakes.
CYTOSAR-U (cytarabine) Sterile Powder, commonly known as ara-C, an antineoplastic, is a sterile lyophilized material for reconstitution and intravenous, intrathecal or subcutaneous administration. A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug
1 Cytarabine, commonly known as Tarabine®, Cytarabine®, or Cytosar-U®, is a drug used to treat certain cancers, most notably leukemia found in dogs and cats. 2  Chemically, it is a pyrimidine analog that functions inside cells as an antimetabolite. Brand Names and Other Names of Cytarabine. 1  This drug is registered for use in humans only. 2  Human formulations: Tarabine® (Adria), Cytarabine® (Faulding), Cytosar-U® (Gensia Sicor), and generic cytarabine.
The 100 mg vial may be reconstituted for intravenous and subcutaneous use with 5 mL Bacteriostatic Water for Injection USP with benzyl alcohol. The resulting solution contains 20 mg of cytarabine per mL. (Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection USP with benzyl alcohol as a diluent for intrathecal use. In the induction therapy of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia, the usual cytarabine dose in combination with other anticancer drugs is 100 mg/m 2 /day by continuous IV infusion (days 1 to 7) or 100 mg/m 2 IV every 12 hours (days 1 to 7).
Overview of Cytarabine for Dogs and Cats. 1  Cytarabine, commonly known as Tarabine®, Cytarabine®, or Cytosar-U®, is a drug used to treat certain cancers, most notably leukemia found in dogs and cats. 2  Chemically, it is a pyrimidine analog that functions inside cells as an antimetabolite. Brand Names and Other Names of Cytarabine. 1  This drug is registered for use in humans only. 2  Human formulations: Tarabine® (Adria), Cytarabine® (Faulding), Cytosar-U® (Gensia Sicor), and generic cytarabine.
The 500 mg vial may be reconstituted for intravenous and subcutaneous use with 10 mL Bacteriostatic Water for Injection USP with benzyl alcohol. The resulting solution contains 50 mg of cytarabine per mL. (Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection USP with benzyl alcohol as a diluent for intrathecal use. In the induction therapy of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia, the usual cytarabine dose in combination with other anticancer drugs is 100 mg/m 2 /day by continuous IV infusion (days 1 to 7) or 100 mg/m 2 IV every 12 hours (days 1 to 7).
The 100 mg vial may be reconstituted with 5 mL of Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol 0.945% w/v added as preservative. The resulting solution contains 20 mg of cytarabine per mL. (Do not use Bacteriostatic Water for Injection with Benzyl Alcohol 0.945% w/v as a diluent for intrathecal use. A cytarabine syndrome has been described by Castleberry. It is characterized by fever, myalgia, bone pain, occasionally chest pain, maculopapular rash, conjunctivitis and malaise. It usually occurs 6-12 hours following drug administration.
When cytarabine is administered both intrathecally and intravenously within a few days, there is an increased risk of spinal cord toxicity, however, in serious life-threatening disease, concurrent use of intravenous and intrathecal cytarabine is left to the discretion of the treating physician. In the induction therapy of acute non-lymphocytic leukemia, the usual cytarabine dose in combination with other anticancer drugs is 100 mg/m 2 /day by continuous IV infusion (days 1 to 7) or 100 mg/m 2 IV every 12 hours (days 1 to 7).