Fluorosis Causes. A major cause of fluorosis is the inappropriate use of fluoride-containing dental products such as toothpaste and mouth rinses. Sometimes, children enjoy the taste of fluoridated toothpaste so much that they swallow it instead of spitting it out. But there are other causes of fluorosi
Dental fluorosis is a defect of the teeth marked by increased porosity of the enamel (a condition known as “ hypomineralization “). In the “moderate” and severe forms of fluorosis, the enamel’s porosity increases to such an extent that the teeth can begin to erode and crumble. Common causes of fluorosis include: fluoridated drinking water (particularly during infancy), ingestion of fluoride toothpaste, use of fluoride tablets, and consumption of processed foods made with fluoridated water.
Skeletal fluorosis is a bone disease caused by excessive accumulation of fluoride in the bones. In advanced cases, skeletal fluorosis causes pain and damage to bones and joints. 
Causes and Symptoms of Dental Fluorosis. Excessive intake of fluoride causes dental fluorosis by damaging the cells that form the enamel, called ameloblasts. Damage to these cells results in a mineralization disorder of the teeth, whereby the porosity of the sub-surface enamel is increased. The damage that dental fluorosis causes to the teeth enamel is permanent and not reversible. Dental fluorosis treatment is targeting in hiding the discoloration of the teeth. Treatment options depend on the severity of dental fluorosis: 1  Tooth whitening-only for mild fluorosis cases.
Ingestion of excess fluoride, most commonly in drinking-water, can cause fluorosis which affects the teeth and bones. Moderate amounts lead to dental effects, but long-term ingestion of large amounts can lead to potentially severe skeletal problems. Clinical dental fluorosis is characterized by staining and pitting of the teeth. In more severe cases all the enamel may be damaged. However, fluoride may not be the only cause of dental enamel defects.
Dental fluorosis, also called mottling of tooth enamel, is a developmental disturbance of dental enamel caused by the consumption of excess fluoride during tooth development. The risk of fluoride overexposure occurs at any age but it is higher at younger ages. Excessive fluoride can cause white spots and, in severe cases, brown stains, pitting, or mottling of the enamel. A tooth is no longer at risk of fluorosis after eruption into the oral cavity. At this point, fluorapatite is beneficial because it is more resistant to dissolution by acids (demineralization).
Dental Fluorosis – Causes, Treatment And Prevention. Dental fluorosis is the name for a mottling condition of the teeth, usually whitish in color, caused by excessive amounts of fluoride becoming incorporated into the outer enamel layer of a tooth. The damage occurs as the enamel is developing in the young child.
Confidence votes 5.3K. Fluorosis is the result of excessive intake of fluoride during the development of dental enamel in childhood. It appears as irregular coloring of the teeth and in severe cases incomplete development of the enamel called mottling (sp). Usually the source of the excessive fluoride is the natural drinking water. 
Although fluorosis can be cosmetically treated, the damage to the enamel is permanent. Common causes of fluorosis include: fluoridated drinking water (particularly during infancy), ingestion of fluoride toothpaste, use of fluoride tablets, and consumption of processed foods made with fluoridated water.
Prolonged, excessive exposure to fluoride can cause a debilitating bone disease known as skeletal fluorosis. The disease develops insidiously and can be difficult to distinguish from a number of other bone and joint diseases. 