We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Talisse history, Talisse ancestory, and Talisse family connections. If you are a Talisse, or are realated to the Talisse family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information. Talisse genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Talisse surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name
Web Sites. Talisse Genealogy. Welcome to some of the best Talisse genealogy resources found on the web. We hope you will participate on the Talisse forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Talisse genealogy and is completely free to participate. Talisse genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Talisse surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike nam
The ism (اسم) is the personal name (e.g. Jafar or Ali). Most names are Arabic words with a meaning, usually signaling the hoped-for character of the person. Such words are employed as adjectives and nouns in regular language. The Arabic for daughter of is bint. A woman with the name Fatimah bint Tariq bin Khalid al-Fulan translates as Fatimah, daughter of Tariq, son of Khaled; of the family al-Fulan.. In this case, ibn and bint are included in the official naming.
[ syll. tu-lia, tul-ia ] The baby girl name Tulia is pronounced as T UW LYAH †. Tulia is derived from Latin origins. Tulia is a variation of the name Tullia (Italian). Tulia is not widely used as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names.
Portuguese form of Thalia. TALIA f Italian, Popular Culture. Short form of ITALIA, the Italian word for “Italy.” The actress Talia Shire (sister of film director and producer Francis Ford Coppola) was named after her mother, Italia Pennino Coppola (1912-2004). As a masculine name in Friesland, this name is usually a short form of names containing the Old High Germanic element adal noble.. But in Scandinavia, it is often a variant form of Tole ...
Nan Talese and Gay Talese at the 2009 Tribeca Film Festival. Gay Talese was born into a Roman Catholic Italian-American family in Ocean City, New Jersey, located just south of Atlantic City. His father, Joseph Talese, was a tailor who had immigrated to the United States in 1922 from Maida, a town in the province of Catanzaro in southern Italy. His mother, the former Catherine DePaolo, was a buyer for a Brooklyn department store (he is sometimes erroneously identified as being from Brooklyn).
Gay Talese (/təˈliːz/ ; born February 7, 1932) is an American author. As a writer for The New York Times and Esquire magazine in the 1960s, he helped to define literary journalism. His most famous articles are about Joe DiMaggio and Frank Sinatra. His father, Joseph Talese, was a tailor who had immigrated to the United States in 1922 from Maida, a town in the province of Catanzaro in southern Italy. His mother, the former Catherine DePaolo, was a buyer for a Brooklyn department store (he is sometimes erroneously identified as being from Brooklyn).
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Talise is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ta-lise. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10000 in baby name popularity for girls with 11 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.