The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. Urea is also a metabolic byproduct which can build up if kidney function is impai
242,131 Helpful Votes. 190 Followers. A. Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dl) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. (In the metric system, a milligram is a unit of weight equal to one-thousandth of a gram, and a deciliter is a unit of volume equal to one-tenth of a liter.).
A normal creatinine depends on muscle mass and age. In general, a normal creatine is 0.5 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). A normal BUN is 7 to 20 mg/dL. Remember that different laboratories use different testing equipment, and may have slightly different ranges for normal.
The kidneys maintain the blood creatinine in a normal range. Creatinine has been found to be a fairly reliable indicator of kidney function. Elevated creatinine level signifies impaired kidney function or kidney disease. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another
So a number that is outside the normal range here may still be normal for you. Blood creatinine: Men: 0.6-1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) or 53-106 micromoles per liter (mcmol/L). Women: 0.5-1.1 mg/dL or 44-97 mcmol/L. Results. Creatinine and creatinine clearance tests measure creatinine levels in your blood and urine. These tests give information about how well your kidneys are working. The creatinine clearance value is found from the amounts of creatinine in the urine and blood and from the amount of urine you pass in 24 hours.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
In children, the normal range of creatinine is 0.2 to 1.0mg/dl but will increase with age as there is better and better physical constitute and muscle buildup. Two units are often used to measure creatinine level, this is, mg/dl and umol/l. 1 mg/dl equals to 88.4umol/l. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females.
Normal range of serum creatinine level will differ with age, gender and physical constitute. In adult men, normal range of serum creatinine is 0.9-1.3mg/dl; while in adult women, normal range of creatinine is 0.6 to 1.1mg/dl. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females.
1. Women usually have lower results on the serum creatinine test because they have a lower muscle mass in their bodies. The average range for women is between 0.6 and 1.1 mg/dL and for men it increases to between 0.7 and 1.3 mg/dL. As with the urine creatinine test, the average results can vary depending on the lab and their specific tests and procedures. 1. The 24 hour sample of urine creatinine will usually range between 500 and 2000 mg/day. The specific results will vary based on a person’s lean body mass and age. For men, the normal range should be between 14 and 26 mg per kilogram of body mass each day and for women these values should be between 11 and 20.
Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) measures the amount of urea nitrogen in bloodstream. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females. Generally, a high blood urea nitrogen level means that the kidneys are not performing well, particularly if the result is above 50mg/dl