If a pan with a rack is not available, place the meat on sturdy foods such as potatoes or carrots to keep it from getting too wet. 5. Turn the oven down to 200ºF and cook for about 1 hour per pound. Check your meat with a thermometer after 2.5 hours for a 2.5 pound roast. Ensuring that your oven is heated before your put in the roast will help ensure even cooking from start to finish. 3. Brown the outside of the meat to sear in the juices. Place a large pan over medium high heat on the stove top.
Heat the oven to 325°. Line a roasting pan with foil. Put the roast in the prepared pan and rub all over with the olive oil. Combine the garlic and remaining ingredients in a small bowl then rub over the roast. Roast for 15 minutes, reduce heat to 225°, and continue roasting for about 3 hours longer, or until done as desired.
4. When the oven is up to 500 degrees, put the beef roast back in uncovered with a thermometer to monitor internal temperature. If you like a rare roast, cook it 125 degrees F. If you like medium, 140 is your number, and for you sadists who like well done, 160 is the magic number. 2. Once you have finished prepping the roast and the oven is up to heat, turn the oven down to 200 degrees F and put the roast in. If you have a thermometer that can be in the roast while it is in the oven, put that in the very center of the roast. You will let the roast cook until it reaches 118 degrees F.
When you are ready to roast the beef, preheat the oven to 250 degrees F. If your roast has a thick fat layer, score it in a criss-cross pattern. Season the roast with salt and pepper, and rub it in with your hands. Finish the roast off with a coating of vegetable oil, and rub that in as well. 2. Once you have finished prepping the roast and the oven is up to heat, turn the oven down to 200 degrees F and put the roast in. If you have a thermometer that can be in the roast while it is in the oven, put that in the very center of the roast. You will let the roast cook until it reaches 118 degrees F.
Step 3. Remove the roast from the refrigerator, set it in a large pot or roaster pan and slide it into an oven preheated to 375 degrees F. Cook the roast until the internal temperature, as measured by a stem thermometer, reaches 145 F for medium-rare, 160 F for medium and 175 F for well done. You Might Also Like.
Heat the olive oil in a large Dutch oven over medium high heat. Once the Dutch oven is HOT add the roast and sear on all sides. Place the meat thermometer into the thickest part of the roast. Place the Dutch oven into the preheated oven and cook until the thermometer reads 115 degrees, about 45-60 minutes. Crank the heat up to 500 degrees and continue cooking until the roast reaches 125-130 degrees, for medium rare. Directions: Preheat the oven to 250 degrees. Place the roast onto a plate then slice a clove of garlic into spears. Using a sharp knife, pierce meat on both sides about 1/2-inch deep and insert slivers of garlic in each hole, pushing all the way in.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Add beef stock and enough water to yield about 1/2 inch of liquid in the roasting pan. Lower oven to 300 degrees F, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain. Top with juice from the pan.
1 Return to Dutch oven. 2  In a small bowl, stir 1/2 cup water into flour. 3  Stir into pan juices. 4  Cook, stirring, on medium heat until thickened, then 1 minute more. 5  Season to taste. 6  Serve with pot roast. 7  For oven cooking: After browning meat and adding liquid mixture to pan, bake, covered, for 1 hour at 325 degrees. 1 In a small bowl, stir 1/2 cup water into flour. 2  Stir into pan juices. 3  Cook, stirring, on medium heat until thickened, then 1 minute more. 4  Season to taste. 5  Serve with pot roast. 6  For oven cooking: After browning meat and adding liquid mixture to pan, bake, covered, for 1 hour at 325 degrees. 7  Prepare potatoes as directed