For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Safety Director in the United States is $103,010, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Safety Director in the United States are expected to make less than $103,010. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Safety Director that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Safety Director are expected to make less than the median.
Details. Parent Category: Safety. The primary responsibility of the Safety Director is to assure compliance with the Safety and Loss Control Program. The Safety Director shall: 1. Establish and administer the county's Safety and Loss Control Program. 2. Conduct county safety meetings as the Commissioners require. 3. Conduct regular physical inspections of all work areas, shops and buildings for any unsafe acts or hazards throughout the county.
safety first image by Greg Pickens from Fotolia.com. A safety director is responsible for ensuring the safety of the workplace. The director accomplishes that by coordinating, administering and implementing comprehensive training programs in occupational, industrial and environmental safety. 
In some industries, such as construction, it is not uncommon for a safety director to be hired from outside the company, in which case that individual would be responsible for on-site inspections, employee safety training and OSHA compliance as well as other safety related duties. A company safety director may have many responsibilities depending upon the needs of their company. Disposing of hazardous waste, keeping records and teaching CPR classes may be some of the duties a company safety director is expected to perform.
Career Definition. The responsibilities of a company safety director are industry-specific and may range from something as simple as instructing a course on back safety to a detailed project like creating a company's safety manual. A company safety director may have many responsibilities depending upon the needs of their company. Disposing of hazardous waste, keeping records and teaching CPR classes may be some of the duties a company safety director is expected to perform.
Construction Safety Directors in the United States tend to have a good amount of experience under their belt — slightly less than two-thirds have more than 10 years in the field. While pay runs from $46K to $118K per year, median earnings come to $77K per year. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. Construction Safety Directors seem to require a number of specific skills.
Safety Director Job Description The following is a full job description for Safety Director. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Safety Director along with statistics.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Safety Director may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Safety Director that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Safety Director are expected to make less than the median.
Popular Skills for Safety Director, Construction. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. Construction Safety Directors seem to require a number of specific skills.