Rose Gold Engagement Rings. It's referred to as rose gold because of the pinkish color of the metal. The reason for this “pinkish” color is due to the presence of copper that was mixed in with the yellow gold; hence rose gold is not a pure form of gold but an alloy. One of the most significant and highly used gold types is Rose Gold. It is widely used in the jewelry making and is preferred by a lot of people because of its unique and beautiful rich color. Rose gold jewelry stands out among the rest and thus, is becoming more popular with each passing day.
Purity of Rose Gold. R ose Gold is no different than than yellow or white gold when it comes to purity. Pure 24k gold is much too soft to be used as casual jewelry. That is why other metals like Silver, Copper, Nickel, Palladium or Zinc is added to pure gold to make it more durable. One of the most significant and highly used gold types is Rose Gold. It is widely used in the jewelry making and is preferred by a lot of people because of its unique and beautiful rich color. Rose gold jewelry stands out among the rest and thus, is becoming more popular with each passing day.
Rose gold is created by increasing the copper-colored alloys mixed with the gold and decreasing the silver-colored alloys. 14K rose gold contains as much pure gold as 14K yellow gold but, because of the increased copper, is slightly pinker in color. Rose gold is available in 9K, 14K and in 18K gold. Ordering Rose Gold Jewelry-Online Before ordering rose gold jewelry, you should be familiar with the color of rose gold.
Rose gold, also known as pink gold and red gold, was popular in Russia at the beginning of the nineteenth century, and was also known as Russian gold although this term is now obsolete. Rose gold jewelry is becoming more popular in the 21st century and is commonly used for wedding rings, bracelets, and other jewelry. 
Rose gold is actually an alloy composed of pure gold mixed with copper. Rose gold is actually an alloy composed of pure gold mixed with copper. © Alex Smith / Fotolia. There is no specific guideline for copper content that needs to be met in order for a piece to be considered rose gold. Generally, the more copper in an alloy, the more pronounced its rose color will be. 
Rose Gold. Rose gold is a mix of pure gold and copper alloy and it is commonly used for specialized jewelry. Rose gold, also known as pink gold and red gold, was popular in Russia at the beginning of the nineteenth century, and was also known as Russian gold although this term is now obsolete.
In terms of the amount of gold found in rose gold as compared to white or yellow gold, it is the same. There is as much pure gold in a 14K rose gold ring as there is in a 14K yellow gold ring. The difference is in the alloys used – more copper colored alloys are used in the rose gold jewelry to give it the pink color. Rose gold jewelry used to be quite rare and harder to find. If you are looking for a unique piece of jewelry, then consider rose gold as an option. The value is the same, but it’s uniqueness makes it extra special. Rose gold jewelry truly is worth considering! Topics: rose gold, Rose gold jewelry | No Comments ». Comments are closed.