application. 1. The system or problem to which a computer is applied. Reference is often made to an application as being either of the computational type (arithmetic computations predominate) or of the data processing type (data handling operations predominate). 2. application. n. 1. the act of applying to a particular purpose or use. 2. relevance or value: the practical applications of space technology. 3. the act of asking for something: an application for leave.
n. 1. the act of applying to a particular purpose or use. 2. relevance or value: the practical applications of space technology. 3. the act of asking for something: an application for leave. 4. a verbal or written request, as for a job, etc: he filed his application.1. The system or problem to which a computer is applied. Reference is often made to an application as being either of the computational type (arithmetic computations predominate) or of the data processing type (data handling operations predominate). 2.
Application. 1. Application and app are synonymous with the word program.. See our program term for full information about programs, comparisons between apps and programs, examples, and other information. 2. Abbreviated as app, this shortened version of the word application became popular with the Apple and Facebook crowd.
Application. An application, or application program, is a software program that runs on your computer. Web browsers, e-mail programs, word processors, games, and utilities are all applications. The word application is used because each program has a specific application for the user. An application, or application program, is a software program that runs on your computer. Web browsers, e-mail programs, word processors, games, and utilities are all applications.
Configuring IIS Application Pool Identities. If you are running IIS 7.5 on Windows Server 2008 R2, or a later version of IIS, you don't have to do anything to use the new identity. For every application pool you create, the Identity property of the new application pool is set to ApplicationPoolIdentity by default.
ap·pli·ca·tion. n. 1. The act of applying. 2. Something applied, such as a cosmetic or curative agent. 3. a. The act of putting something to a special use or purpose: an application of a new method. application. n. 1. the act of applying to a particular purpose or use. 2. relevance or value: the practical applications of space technology. 3. the act of asking for something: an application for leave.
Teradata. vs. Sybase Adaptive Server Enterprise. An application server is a server program in a computer in a distributed network that provides the business logic for an application program.
Examples of APPLICATION. 1  Our loan application has been approved. 2  Anyone interested in running for office must file an application by August 1st. 3  If you'd like to be considered for the job, please send us a letter of application that gives your experience and qualifications. 