Glass is manufactured primarily from the mineral quartz (SiO2) which is what sand is made from. However small amounts of other minerals are added to the sand to make the process easier. These minerals are:-. sodium carbonate (Na2CO3). lime (calcium oxide (CaO). magnesium oxide (MgO). aluminum oxide (Al2O3). 
Glass is made by melting together several minerals at very high temperatures. Silica in the form of sand is the main ingredient and this is combined with soda ash and limestone and melted in a furnace at temperatures of 1700°C. Other materials can be added to produce different colours or properties. Glass is a combination of sand and other minerals that are melted together at very high temperatures to form a material that is ideal for a wide range of uses from packaging and construction to fibre optics.
Gold occasionally serves as a coating for a mirror’s reflective surface, according to NASA. But gold is more commonly used in the framework of mirrors; for example, a wooden frame would be overlaid with gold leaf. Aluminum and Silver. Glass needs a coating before it can provide a good reflecting surface. Modern mirrors usually employ aluminum or silver as a coating material, according to the Gemini Observatory. In ancient times, polished silver sometimes served as a mirror material, without any glass constituent.
One often overlooked way to make mirrors, whether flat mirrors of convex mirrors are with stainless steel rather than glass. As a matter of fact, many of your public restroom and washroom mirrors are manufactured out of stainless steel. This is steel is highly polished making it reflect just as a glass mirror will.Stainless steel convex mirrors are virtually indestructible, won't rust, or harbor bacteria.
the minerals found in mirrors are quartz, feldspar, silica, and silver. Garnet is composed of several different minerals in different  amounts. Minerals that can make up garnet are Aluminum, Pyrope,  Almandine, Spessartine, Calcium, Uvarovite, G … rosular, and  Andradite.
Various minerals have served as components of mirrors, either in the reflecting surfaces or else in the framework. Through the skillful application of minerals, mirrors sometimes became elegant works of art. Ancient mirrors differed in their mineral composition from modern mirrors, and different cultures used different materials. Aluminum and Silver. Glass needs a coating before it can provide a good reflecting surface. Modern mirrors usually employ aluminum or silver as a coating material, according to the Gemini Observatory. In ancient times, polished silver sometimes served as a mirror material, without any glass constituent.
Antacid tablets are made from the mineral calcite. It takes many minerals to make something as simple as a wooden pencil. The lead is made from graphite and clay minerals; the brass band is made of copper and zinc, and the paint that colors it contains pigments and fillers made from a variety of minerals. Steel is not a mineral because it is an alloy produced by people. Inorganic means that the substance is not made by an organism. Wood and pearls are made by organisms and thus are not minerals. Solid means that it is not a liquid or a gas at standard temperature and pressure.
The principal reflecting surface in ancient mirrors was bronze, an alloy of copper and tin. Sometimes, pure copper served as the reflecting surface. Bronze mirrors were common among the Chinese, the Egyptians and the ancient cultures of Mesopotamia. Aluminum and Silver. Glass needs a coating before it can provide a good reflecting surface. Modern mirrors usually employ aluminum or silver as a coating material, according to the Gemini Observatory. In ancient times, polished silver sometimes served as a mirror material, without any glass constituent.
Most of the things that we use in our daily life are either made from minerals or produced using mineral products. Antacid tablets are made from calcite, table salt is crushed halite, several minerals are used to make a wood pencil and dozens of minerals from many different countries are used to make a cell phone. Steel is not a mineral because it is an alloy produced by people. Inorganic means that the substance is not made by an organism. Wood and pearls are made by organisms and thus are not minerals. Solid means that it is not a liquid or a gas at standard temperature and pressure.