VCO-Virgin Coconut Oil. ​ Virgin Coconut Oil (VCO) is a natural oil produced from fresh coconut without the use of chemical or heat treatment resulting in a clear, water-color oil that contains phytonutrients that could be beneficial to health. 
Coconuts are an excellent source of nutrition and have healthful meat, juice, and oil. The oil is arguably the most nutritious and has many health benefits. Coconut oil is over 90% saturated fat and has antimicrobial, antibacterial, and antifungal properties. Coconut oil also has antioxidant properties and it helps in the absorption of other minerals. Coconut oil is an incredible source of medium chain fatty acids (MCFAs), which have been shown to have many health benefits. Coconut oil is the most nutrient dense part of the coconut. It is solid at room temperature like butter. It doesn’t break down in heat or light or become rancid like many oils, and in my opinion has a wonderful tropical smell.
Coconut oil is high in saturated fat and can increase cholesterol. When applied to the skin, it has a moisturizing effect. Coconut oil is safe for most people if used in amounts commonly found in foods. It also appears to be safe when applied to the scalp in combination with other herbs. Its high saturated fat content can cause weight gain and increase cholesterol. The safety of coconut oil used in medicinal amounts is unknown
Organic Coconut Oil: The coconut oil that has been extracted from coconuts obtained from coconut palms raised only on organic manure and no synthetic fertilizers or insecticides. The production of organic coconut oil is also completed without involving any chemical in its extraction or processing. The benefit of coconut oil on the skin is comparable to that of mineral oil. Fortunately, unlike mineral oil, there is no chance of having any adverse side effects on the skin from the application of coconut oil. Coconut oil therefore is a safe solution for preventing dryness and flaking of skin.
Coconut oil is one of the best natural nutrients for your hair. It helps in healthy growth of hair and gives your hair a shiny quality. It is also highly effective in reducing protein loss which can lead to various unattractive or unhealthy qualities in your hair. The benefit of coconut oil on the skin is comparable to that of mineral oil. Fortunately, unlike mineral oil, there is no chance of having any adverse side effects on the skin from the application of coconut oil. Coconut oil therefore is a safe solution for preventing dryness and flaking of skin.
Coconut oil has a saturated fat called lauric acid, a type of MCT. It has been shown that lauric acid increases the good HDL cholesterol in the blood to help improve cholesterol ratio levels. 
Coconut oil, due to its high lauric acid content, is actually beneficial to the body. It is also fascinating to note that countries like Thailand eat very high amounts of saturated fats like coconut oil and lard, and have very low levels of disease on average. Coconut oil is the most nutrient dense part of the coconut. It is solid at room temperature like butter. It doesn’t break down in heat or light or become rancid like many oils, and in my opinion has a wonderful tropical smell.
Coconut oil will not clog pores and it absorbs readily into the skin so it works very well as a carrier oil for dry, itchy or sensitive skin. Coconut oil is great for soap making because of its resistance to spoiling, help to create a a good hard soap that has a wonderful skin nourishing fluffy lather. Coconut Oil. Coconut Oil. 1  Coconut Oil is the natural oil derived from coconuts. 2  Coconut Oil has a defatting effect on skin which is overcome by using coconut oil-deprived esters rather than the oil itself. 3  Surfactants derived from coconut oil have good cleansing properties and are generally known to be mild.
However, coconut oil is still high in calories and saturated fat. Coconut oil has more saturated fat than lard does. Short-term studies have suggested medium-chain fatty acids, such as lauric acid, do not raise serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol as much as do long-chain fatty acids. The few small studies that have looked at coconut oil for weight loss suggest that coconut oil may help reduce waist size, but it doesn't lead to significant weight loss or improved body mass index (BMI). Coconut oil is a tropical oil that's made from the dried fruit (nut) of the coconut palm tree.
Labels on coconut oil include the terms “organic,” “virgin,” and “extra-virgin.” Organic oils are extracted by mechanical pressing of the meat after it has been heat-dried. Virgin coconut oil is not processed in any way, such as bleaching or deodorizing. Coconut oil is extracted from the meat of coconuts — the thick, white interior lining of a coconut. It is a solid when it’s cooler than 76 degree Fahrenheit. It’s similar in texture to vegetable shortening.