Faults are classified by how they move, and there are three main types of stress that cause movement along faults. The stress occurs because as mentioned before, the plates fit together really well, but also float around on the mantle and rub against each other. Tensional stress is when slabs of rock are pulled apart. Three types of faults are caused by three types of stress. Tensional stress is when rock slabs are pulled apart from each other, causing normal faults. With normal faults, the hanging wall slips downward relative to the footwall.
Most earthquakes occur along zones where the Earth's crust is undergoing deformation. Deformation results from plate tectonic forces and gravitational forces. The type of deformation that takes place during an earthquake generally occurs along zones where rocks fracture to produce faults. When a rock is subjected to increasing stress it changes its shape, size or volume. Such a change in shape, size or volume is referred to as strain. When stress is applied to rock, the rock passes through 3 successive stages of
Stress is a force applied over an area. One type of stress that we are all used to is a uniform stress, called pressure. A uniform stress is where the forces act equally from all directions. In the Earth the pressure due to the weight of overlying rocks is a uniform stress and is referred to as confining stress. When a rock is subjected to increasing stress it changes its shape, size or volume. Such a change in shape, size or volume is referred to as strain. When stress is applied to rock, the rock passes through 3 successive stages of deformation.
Stress = Force/Area. Strain = A change in shape or volume in response to a stress. Stress is the cause, strain is the effect! There are three types of stress : 1) Compressive stress Forces that squeeze or push toward one another from opposite directions (cause shortening or flattening). 2) Tensional stress Forces that pull away from one another in opposite directions (cause stretching or extension). 
1 There are three types of stress: compression, tension, and shear. 2  Stress can cause strain, if it is sufficient to overcome the strength of the object that is under stress. 3  Strain is a change in shape or size resulting from applied forces (deformation). 1 It has the same units as pressure, but also has a direction (i.e., it is a vector, just like a force). 2  There are three types of stress: compression, tension, and shear. 3
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Shearing (stress that pushes a mass of rock in opposite directions), tension (stress that stretches rock so that it becomes thinner in the middle), and compression (stress that squeezes rock until it folds or breaks). 
An earthquake (also known as a quake, tremor or temblor) is the perceptible shaking of the surface of the Earth, which can be violent enough to destroy major buildings and kill thousands of people. The severity of the shaking can range from barely felt to violent enough to toss people around. In its most general sense, the word earthquake is used to describe any seismic event — whether natural or caused by humans — that generates seismic waves. Earthquakes are caused mostly by rupture of geological faults, but also by other events such as volcanic activity, landslides, mine blasts, and nuclear tests.
Compression. Compression is a type of stress that causes the rocks to push or squeeze against one another. It targets the center of the rock and can cause either horizontal or vertical orientation. In horizontal compression stress, the crust can thicken or shorten. The Earth has three layers, the crust, the mantle and the core. The Earth’s crust is like the shell of an egg; it is the thinnest of the Earth’s layers. The crust is broken into several parts, known as the continental plates. When the plates are pulled or pushed together, stress occurs.
Ans: An earthquake is caused by a sudden slip on a fault. Stresses in the earth's outer layer push the sides of the fault together. Stress builds up and the rocks slips suddenly, releasing energy in waves that travel through the earth's crust and cause the shaking that we feel during an earthquake. Ans: Earthquakes occur on faults-strike-slip earthquakes occur on strike-slip faults, normal earthquakes occur on normal faults, and thrust earthquakes occur on thrust or reverse faults. When an earthquake occurs on one of these faults, the rock on one side of the fault slips with respect to the other.