Best Answer: Not so fast, folks! There has been a LOT of fraud lately with cashier's checks and money orders. If it's drawn on a major national bank with offices near where the recipient lives it should clear in a day or so. However many checks from obscure local banks can take weeks to clear in some cases. The fraudsters have become so good with their fake checks that it's possible to take as long as 20 days or more for a bogus cashier's check to bounce. 
Depending on the institution, it may take anywhere from one business day to seven business days to clear a check. The usual time is 2-3 business days, but it may take more or … less time to clear due to your bank's procedures and delays/ bank holidays. 20 people found this useful. How long does it take Wells Fargo to clear a check? The time it takes for Wells Fargo to clear a check depends on the history of the person who wrote the check, how much the check was written for and the time or the year the ch … eck was written.
If you don’t currently bank at one of the top 10 banks in the country, finding out how long it takes a check to clear can be difficult. While some banks make it easy to find out how long it takes for funds from a deposited check to clear, not all banks are as transparent and forthcoming with this information. This list is comprised of banks ranked 11 to 20 based on the total value of account deposits, which means these are among the top 20 banks in America. Just to clarify, this information concerns how long it would take for a check to clear when you deposit it into your own bank account.
The exact time it takes for a check to clear depends on bank policies and the nature of the deposit. Most national banks promise that deposited checks will clear and post to your account either the same day or the next business day. If the account is less than 30 days old, the check may take a few extra days to clear.
The usual time is 2-3 business days, but it may take more or … less time to clear due to your bank's procedures and delays/ bank holidays. How long does it take Wells Fargo to clear a check? The time it takes for Wells Fargo to clear a check depends on the history of the person who wrote the check, how much the check was written for and the time or the year the ch … eck was written.
Report Abuse. Oh no NOT AGAIN. Don't tell me the certified check is from someone in Nigeria... If it is, the check is a forgery and will bounce in a week or so. DO NOT sent the crook who sent you this check ANY money via Western Union... don't do it... don't do it. If you contact the bank on which the check was drawn you will find it is either a stolen check or counterfeit. This is a total scam and when the check bounces you will be out any money you sent back to the crook in Nigeria and not only that you could be arrested as an accessory to fraud. 
When you deposit the money is key. The time of day you deposited the check into the ATM will influence the length of the hold. If your bank has a cutoff time of 2 p.m., and you deposited the money in the ATM at 3 p.m., it's considered deposited on the next business day. A local check deposited in a proprietary ATM can have a partial hold for up to seven business days. A partial hold means that some, but not all, of the money is available. In your case, you had $500 available to you, with a hold placed on the remaining $1,000.
How long does a chase check take to clear at a chase bank? I know with my situations, I deposited an out-of-state check into my account for $1,500- they gave me $200 for the rest of that same day, then the remaining $1,500 becomes ava … ilable the next day. How long does it take Wells Fargo to clear a check? The time it takes for Wells Fargo to clear a check depends on the history of the person who wrote the check, how much the check was written for and the time or the year the ch … eck was written.
Writing a check to someone else is a different matter and is dependent on how long it takes for the recipient to deposit it, as well as how long the other bank takes to process the check. BNY Mellon. 1  Standard deposit – The first $5,000 from a deposit of checks will be available on the first business day of your deposit. This list is comprised of banks ranked 11 to 20 based on the total value of account deposits, which means these are among the top 20 banks in America. Just to clarify, this information concerns how long it would take for a check to clear when you deposit it into your own bank account.