Select a tool from the markup menu and drag it to the location you want to use it. You can select: Call out: This will create an arrow pointing to a text box. Text box: Similar to call out, however it places the box directly over the word or words you wish to mark up.
In PDF terms this is called Text Mark-up, and this is how you can mark-up text and annotate your comments using Nitro Reader. To Highlight text. 1  1. 2  In the Home tab, click Mark-up Text and choose Highlight Text. 3  2. Use the left button on your mouse to click-and-drag over the text you wish to highlight.
1 Save annotations in the original file. 2  Share them with coworkers, email them to partners or back to the authors-with no special software needed to view the marked up document. 3  Type comments on top of PDF content. 4  Paste in images, use a stylus or drawing tablet if you have them.
Often, recipients of this content would like to add notes, highlights, comments, and other markups to these PDF documents. In this tip, you will learn how to markup and add comments to PDF documents on various devices, including your computer and tablet.
Marking Up a PDF Document on a Personal Computer. If you have downloaded the PDF document onto your PC and if you have Adobe Acrobat Standard, Professional, or Suite [1] installed on the PC, marking up and adding comments to a PDF document is a simple and straightforward process.
Learn how to do a PDF review or a document review using Acrobat and add text markups to your PDF file. Donna Baker. By Donna Baker  September 12, 2013. In this tutorial, learn how to do a PDF review or a document review using Acrobat XI or the free Reader
Assuming the author of the document has not secured the document to prevent such markups, you can edit, markup, and add your comments to a PDF document by opening the document and clicking Comments to open the Comment Pane, as shown in Figure 1.
Rep: This would be the closest. Open the pdf file in some kind of pdf viewer, print it to files (postscript) having each page as one file, open up the ps file in gimp, mark it up as you want, save the ps files, join the files together with psjoin, use ps2pdf to bring it back to pdf form.