Camerata, a dormitory or a comrade in Italian or an adjective meaning chambered in Latin, may refer to: 1  Camerata (music) , a small chamber orchestra or choir. 2  Florentine Camerata, an Italian musical association of the late sixteenth century. 
Origin of CAMERATA. New Latin, from Latin, neuter plural of cameratus, past participle of camerare to arch, from camera arched roof — more at chamber. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
The Camerata are a group of four powerful and influential individuals in the city of Cloudbank. Established by Grant Kendrell and Royce Bracket, the group circumvents the official administration and democratic nature of Cloudbank, in order to establish some form of stability in the ever-changing city. The group uses the Transistor to integrate various individuals of influence. The true reason for integration is unknown, perhaps the Camerata had moral objection to outright killing their targets. Integration, however, does also appear to increase the functionality of the Transistor.
They met at the house of Giovanni de' Bardi, and their gatherings had the reputation of having all the most famous men of Florence as frequent guests. After first meeting in 1573, the activity of the Camerata reached its height between 1577 and 1582. While propounding a revival of the Greek dramatic style, the Camerata's musical experiments led to the development of the stile recitativo. In this way it facilitated the composition of dramatic music and the development of opera. Unifying the Camerata members was the belief that music had become corrupt, and by returning to the forms and style of the ancient Greeks, the art of music could be improved, and thereby society could be improved as well.
Definition of CAMERATA. : the largest order of crinoids including all Paleozoic species that have the lower brachial plates included in the cup and the mouth and food grooves closed. ADVERTISEMENT. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
The Camerata had a hard time keeping up with the constant thirst of new and exciting attractions for the citizens of Cloudbank, so they began regulating the city. They used the Transistor to absorb influential individuals in hopes of creating constant new and interesting concepts for the city. The group uses the Transistor to integrate various individuals of influence. The true reason for integration is unknown, perhaps the Camerata had moral objection to outright killing their targets. Integration, however, does also appear to increase the functionality of the Transistor.
Not much is known about The Camerata. Its members are Grant Kendrell, Asher Kendrell, Sybil Reisz, and Royce Bracket. As a group, they are responsible for the disappearances of high profile people in Cloudbank. The numerous individuals who disappeared were killed by the Camerata, their Trace Data downloaded into the Transistor. Together, they intended to improve Cloudbank, using The Process as a canvas, and the Transistor as a brush.
The term camerata is entirely a new construct coined by the members of Bardi's circle, although apparently based on the Italian word for chamber, camera, a term used for a room where important meetings were held. Unifying the Camerata members was the belief that music had become corrupt, and by returning to the forms and style of the ancient Greeks, the art of music could be improved, and thereby society could be improved as well.
Take a journey into three superb classics with Camerata Chicago: Dvořak, Dvořák beethoven And rossini at The Wheaton College Artist. Series watch a special series of videos of renowned Cellist Joshua roman Performing’dvorak Dvorák S cello Concerto With camerata chicago At The Wheaton College. artist series There will also be a concert at the Wheaton College Artist Series on Sep 26. See Details …. Spring 2016: Cellist Julian Schwarz plays Haydn. Julian Schwarz joins Camerata Chicago to play the delightful Haydn Cello Concerto in C for our exciting Rising Star Series.