The relative rate of motion between the North American plate and the Pacific plate is approximately 3.5 to 4.6 cm per year, most of which (2.0 to 3.5 cm per year) is accounted for by horizontal displacement along the San Andreas fault zone. The surface expression of the San Andreas transform fault zone is a right-lateral strike-slip fault. The fault zone is approximately 1300 km long and is made up of three major segments, each with characteristic types, magnitudes and frequencies of earthquake activity.
Map of the San Andreas Fault, showing relative motion. The San Andreas Fault is a continental transform fault that extends roughly 1300 km (810 miles) through California. It forms the tectonic boundary between the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate, and its motion is right-lateral strike-slip (horizontal). It is named after San Andreas Lake, a small body of water that was formed in a valley between the two plates. Following the 1906 San Francisco earthquake, Lawson concluded that the fault extended all the way into southern
The San Andreas Fault is a continental transform boundary that  extends roughly 810 miles (1,300 km) through California, forming  the tectonic boundary between the Pacific P … late and the North  American Plate. Its motion is right-lateral strike-slip  (horizontal). The two plates that meet in the San Andreas Fault are the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate.
The San Andreas fault is one of only a few examples of a transform boundary between two tectonic plates that is exposed on a continent. Some other continental transforms are the Alpine fault in New Zealand and the Dead Sea Transform fault system in the Middle East. The surface expression of the San Andreas transform fault zone is a right-lateral strike-slip fault. The fault zone is approximately 1300 km long and is made up of three major segments, each with characteristic types, magnitudes and frequencies of earthquake activity.
Map of the modern San Andreas Fault in relation to the greater plate-tectonic setting of western North America and the northeastern Pacific Ocean basin. The San Andreas Fault represents a great transform-fault boundary between the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate. The San Andreas Fault system connects between spreading centers in the East Pacific Rise (to the south) and the Juan de Fuca Ridge and Mendicino fracture zone system (to the north). 
Like all transform plate boundaries, the San Andreas is a strike-slip fault, movement along which is dominantly horizontal. Specifically, the San Andreas fault zone separates the Pacific and North American Plates, which are slowly grinding past each other in a roughly north-south direction. 
The San Andreas Fault is a transform plate boundary between the Pacific and North American Plates. The two plates that meet in the San Andreas Fault are the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate.
The best-studied strike-slip fault is the San Andreas Fault in California. It is located at the boundary between the Pacific and North American plates and runs roughly 800 miles (1,300 km) through Northern and Southern California. 
The San Andreas fault zone is a transform boundary between two tectonic plates, the North America plate and the Pacific plate. The surface expression of the San Andreas transform fault zone is a right-lateral strike-slip fault. The fault zone is approximately 1300 km long and is made up of three major segments, each with characteristic types, magnitudes and frequencies of earthquake activity.
The two plates are the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate are the plates causing the San Andreas Fault. The two plates that meet in the San Andreas Fault are the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate.