The President of Germany, officially the President of the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundespraesident bundespräsident Der Bundesrepublik), deutschland is the head of state Of. Germany germany has a parliamentary system of government with The Federal chancellor running the government and the politics of the. day The Federal President, by his or her actions and public appearances, represents the state itself, its existence, its legitimacy, and unity. The President's office involves an integrative role and the control function of upholding the law and the constitution.
However, the German President has a role which is more than ceremonial with the office being a genuine political office with extensive discretion regarding the way the President exercises his official duties. The Federal President, by his or her actions and public appearances, represents the state itself, its existence, its legitimacy, and unity. The President's office involves an integrative role and the control function of upholding the law and the constitution.
BERLIN — A rights activist and former Lutheran pastor was overwhelmingly elected as Germany ’s 11th postwar president on Sunday, putting former East Germans in the nation’s two highest offices at a time when it is being called on to assume a greater leadership role in Europe. Joachim Gauck is applauded by members of the German parliament following his election as Germany's new president on Sunday. Credit Odd Andersen/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images.
The President of Germany, officially the President of the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundespraesident bundespräsident Der Bundesrepublik), deutschland is the head of state Of. germany The Federal President, by his or her actions and public appearances, represents the state itself, its existence, its legitimacy, and unity. The President's office involves an integrative role and the control function of upholding the law and the constitution.
Federal President Joachim Gauck and Daniela Schadt are undertaking state visits to the Republic of Korea and to Mongolia from 10 to 16 October. During his trip to Mongolia from 14 to 16 October the Federal President will hold political talks with the President and the Chairman of Parliament. The Federal President met US President Barack Obama at the White House in Washington. Twenty five years after the reunification of Germany, the visit focused on transatlantic relations, the German American friendship, shared political and economic aims and common values.
President of Germany – his role and functions. No comments. By Mirco – October 29, 2011. The federal President of Germany is the German head of state. On paper that makes him the most powerful political figure in Germany. Appointment and dismissal of the government. After elections the President of Germany suggests the Chancellor and appoints the various other members of the government. He also appoints and dismisses federal judges, high-ranking military personnel and other officials
The role of the German president. The resignation of German President Christian Wulff has once again called into question the role of the president. DW takes a look at Germany's highest office, which plays a largely ceremonial role. The president's role is largely ceremonial for historical reasons. With the resignation of Germany's president, Christian Wulff, the country's Federal Convention will now be tasked with the responsibility of voting for a successor. Compared with leaders of other countries, the German president has few opportunities to influence day-to-day politics in his or her country. 
Germany has both a Chancellor and a President. The German president's role is things that happen in German. The Chancellor deals with everything that happens outside of Germany that affects Germany.
His main responsibilities and actions are, however, mostly representative and ceremonial. The President of Germany is not directly involved in making laws or political decisions which stir the country in one direction or the other. His role in German politics is rather that of a watcher or public conscience. Appointment and dismissal of the government. After elections the President of Germany suggests the Chancellor and appoints the various other members of the government. He also appoints and dismisses federal judges, high-ranking military personnel and other officials