Periods typically occur every 4 weeks and last no more than 7 days. Sometimes, periods become especially heavy and last an unusually long time. Several things can cause heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding, called menorrhagia. Possibilities include reproductive system problems and disorders unrelated to reproductive function. One or more noncancerous growths called uterine fibroids, or leiomyomas, are a common cause of heavy flow. These growths develop in the uterine wall and contain muscle and other tissue. Other noncancerous growths, called polyps, can develop on the surface of the uterine lining and also cause heavy, long periods.
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
Amenorrhea. A long menstrual cycle could refer to an extended period of time between bouts of bleeding. Amenorrhea is the absence of periods for more than 60 days. It usually occurs during pregnancy and breastfeeding, but it can also occur at other times in a woman's life. Menorrhagia. This is the occurrence of an abnormally long or heavy period. Talk to your doctor to see if the cause behind your long menstrual cycles merit these options in the case that simpler methods do not suffice. Irregular periods can be frustrating and inconvenient, but with the right attitude and proper treatment, they could soon be a thing of the past.
You may hear your doctor use certain medical terms when referring to irregular or prolonged menstrual bleeding. Menorrhagia describes a period that is very heavy or long lasting. Polymenorrhea refers to irregular bleeding for spans of 21 days or less. These are abnormal conditions identified after other causes, like pregnancy, have been ruled out. Depending on the circumstances, long menstruation may be a condition that can be easily controlled with birth control hormones or one that indicates a serious underlying health issue. The length of an average menstrual cycle for an adult woman lasts anywhere between 21 and 35 days.
Reasons for a Two-Week-Long Period 2 5 2. Menstrual periods occur in all females from the onset of puberty (average age of onset 11 or 12 years) and last until menopause in middle age. They occur when the lining of the uterus is shed via vaginal bleeding due to the girl or woman not being pregnant. 
Another cause of a long bleeding period is problems with the uterus. One such problem is polyps. Endometrial polyps are small growths that appear on the lining of the uterus. These polyps are usually harmless but can cause longer menstrual periods. There could be several reasons for having a prolonged menstrual cycle. Besides a possible bleeding disorder, one cause of a long bleeding period is a problem with your ovaries. If your body does not ovulate, the ovaries will still continue to make estrogen which causes the lining of the uterus to thicken even more. This is often the cause of a late period
Report Abuse. Some STD's and vaginal infections can cause bleeding which may seem like a period. If you are usually regular and now seem to be bleeding for longer periods of time, you should talk to your doctor. Just a thought · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. it could be stress, worring. one time my sister was so stressed she had her period for a month. The menstrual cycle is not the same for every woman. On average, menstrual flow occurs every 28 days (with most women having cycles between 24 and 34 days), and lasts about 4 days.
A normal monthly menstrual period is enough of an inconvenience. But sometimes a woman may experience monthly cycles where she has heavy bleeding over a long period of time. The bleeding can last for several weeks and can naturally cause some distress. Another problem is a sensitive abdomen during these times. There could be several reasons for having a prolonged menstrual cycle. Besides a possible bleeding disorder, one cause of a long bleeding period is a problem with your ovaries. If your body does not ovulate, the ovaries will still continue to make estrogen which causes the lining of the uterus to thicken even more. This is often the cause of a late period