Parkinson's disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The loss of these neurons is associated with a glial response composed mainly of activated microglial cells and, to a lesser extent, of reactive astrocytes. This glial response may be the source of trophic factors and can protect against reactive oxygen species and glutamate.
The role of glial cells in Parkinson's disease. Vila M, Jackson-Lewis V, Guegan Guégan, C WU, Dc Teismann, P CHOI, Dk Tieu, K Przedborski. S'parkinson s disease is a common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive loss of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars. compacta
The role of glial cells in Parkinson's disease. Vila M, Jackson-Lewis V, Guegan Guégan, C WU, Dc Teismann, P CHOI, Dk Tieu, K Przedborski. s
Reactive glial cells are consistently found in the brain tissue of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Both clustered and scattered glial cells occur in AD brain.
Scientists have used supporting cells of the central nervous system, glial cells, to regenerate from damaged cells the healthy and functional neurons that are critical for transmitting signals in the brain, shown in green in this image in the brain of a mouse with Alzheimer's disease.
The nervous system is a complex organ made up of nerve cells (also called neurons) and glial cells, which surround and support neurons (see Figure 3.1). Neurons send signals that affect numerous functions including thought processes and movement.
However, scientists are now realizing that many other cellular changes occur in the brain during the Alzheimer’s disease process. For example, glial cells show abnormalities, as certain populations of glial cells begin to swell up and divide to produce more glial cells.
The intensive research aiming at curing Parkinson's disease with stem cells is a good example for the various strategies, successful results, and remaining challenges of stem cell-based brain repair. Parkinson's disease is a progressive disorder of motor control that affects roughly 2% of persons 65 years and older.