A booking agency says it knows how much it’ll cost to get acts from Taylor Swift ($1 million+) to a Dave Matthews tribute band ($5-$10K) for your private party. See all the numbers. Shop ▾. The site Priceonomics recently reached out to Degy Entertainment, a third-party booking agency, to give curious live music aficionados a rough idea of just how much it may cost to book your favorite musical act based on “a list of rates suggested by the artists’ agents per show, pre-expense.”.
Contrary to popular belief, a travel agent won't always cost more. In fact, it's possible you will pay less than booking a vacation yourself because agents might be aware of promotional offers and occasionally have access to exclusive deals. Some agents will charge a per-hour fee for their time in planning a trip. Agents can earn commissions on some bookings, but it's not nearly as lucrative as it used to be because airlines don't pay commission. In general, however, using a travel agent will often cost about the same as booking it yourself, experts say.
(October 2012). A talent agent, or booking agent, is a person who finds jobs for actors, authors, film directors, musicians, models, film producers, professional athletes, writers, screenwriters, broadcast journalists, and other people in various entertainment or broadcast businesses. The cost factor of having a booking agent must be weighed against what the agent can do for clients and buyers alike. Some agents represent several different types of artists, while others represent artists in one main area/genre.
According to the American Society of Travel Agents, the average service fee for booking airline tickets in 2009 was around $20, while the fee for booking a cruise was $50, USA Today writes. So, to book through a travel agent or to book online? Some agents do charge a per-hour fee when they’re planning a trip, and agents can earn commission on some of their bookings. But, you can typically expect a travel agent to cost around the same as if you’d booked it yourself. When you factor in the time it saves you, travel agents may be worth the cost.
Booking agents for bands work on a strict commission basis. So if an agent books a gig, he'll get a percentage of whatever the band makes for that show. Depending on the contract, the booking agent's cut could include a portion of ticket sales as well as any merchandise and CDs sold at the show. The typical booking agent commission for a band is between five and 10 percent, although some agents will charge more for radio, TV and film appearances [source: Salazar ]. The same agent might charge very different commissions for different types of clients. 
Tweet. Also called a booking agent, a talent agent specializes in finding jobs for as artists including actors, models, musicians, writers, directors and entertainers. A talent agent may book auditions for actors, schedule go sees for models, or line up auditions and meetings with potential employers. Typical costs: 1 A talent manager differs from a talent agent in that their main responsibility is not scheduling auditions, but managing an artist's public relations and business matters. 2  A talent manager generally earns 15-20% of the artist's earnings in exchange for managing their career, scheduling interviews, and so forth.
Booking Agents are paid on commission, receiving a percentage off the top of the Artists’ fees. Commissions vary but they usually range from 10% – 20% of the act’s per show gross income. If a Booking Agent is working in an agency, they may be paid a salary plus a percentage of the profits they bring into the agency. Booking Agents who make the most money are the ones who handle more than one act, bringing in anywhere from $200,000 to $1,000,000 or more per year. 
Anticipate agents charging $25 to $30 to book a domestic flight, $50 to $80 to book a vacation to a single destination, and about $100 per hour for research and planning advice, according to Consumers’ Checkbook. Some agents do charge a per-hour fee when they’re planning a trip, and agents can earn commission on some of their bookings. But, you can typically expect a travel agent to cost around the same as if you’d booked it yourself. When you factor in the time it saves you, travel agents may be worth the cost.
According to the research, acts like Dave Matthews Band, Bruce Springsteen, Justin Bieber (ugh), Justin Timberlake, and Taylor Swift are the most expensive to book, with an estimated rate of $1 million-plus per performance, while it’ll run you around $125,000-$175,000 for “Happy” singer Pharrell. The site Priceonomics recently reached out to Degy Entertainment, a third-party booking agency, to give curious live music aficionados a rough idea of just how much it may cost to book your favorite musical act based on “a list of rates suggested by the artists’ agents per show, pre-expense.”.