Short Biography Thomas Edison. Thomas Edison was born in Milan, Ohio on Feb 11, 1847, the youngest of seven siblings. His parents were middle class, though they were not wealthy, especially when the railroad bypassed Milan, forcing the family to move to Port Huron, Michigan.
Thomas Edison (1847 – 1931) was an American inventor and businessman who developed and made commercially available – many key inventions of modern life. His Edison Electric company was a pioneering company for delivering DC electricity directly into people’s homes. Thomas Edison was born in Milan, Ohio on Feb 11, 1847, the youngest of seven siblings. His parents were middle class, though they were not wealthy, especially when the railroad bypassed Milan, forcing the family to move to Port Huron, Michigan.
He is credited with num Thomas Alva Edison was an American inventor, scientist and businessman who developed many devices that greatly influenced life around the world, including the phonograph, the motion picture camera, and a long-lasting, practical electric light bulb. His advanced work in these fields was an outgrowth of his early career as a telegraph operator. Edison originated the concept and implementation of electric-power generation and distribution to homes, businesses, and factories – a crucial development in the modern industrialized world.
This section contains a summary about America's greatest inventor, Thomas Alva Edison. It highlights his life as an inventor, entrepreneur and businessman. The first practical incandescent light bulb is the invention for which he is most remembered, but he often said the. was his favorite invention. In 1868, Edison's close friend, Milton Adams was working at the Franklin Telegraph Company in Boston when he received a message from Tom who was then visiting home in Port Huron; Tom went home because his father had just died.
I first became interested in Thomas Edison as a youngster after seeing the movie “Young Tom Edison” with Mickey Rooney. As I became more familiar with the life of Edison I became curious about his middle name “Alva” which is a Spanish surname. 
Thomas Alva Edison (February 11, 1847 – October 18, 1931) was an American inventor and businessman. He developed many devices that greatly influenced life around the world, including the phonograph, the motion picture camera, and the long-lasting, practical electric light bulb. More significant than the number of Edison's patents was the widespread impact of his inventions: electric light and power utilities, sound recording, and motion pictures all established major new industries world-wide. Edison's inventions contributed to mass communication and, in particular, telecommunications.
The extensive collection of papers preserved in the archives of the Thomas Edison National Historical Park (ENHP) approximately 5 million pages in allis the product of Thomas Alva Edison's sixty-year career as inventor, manufacturer, and businessman. At his West Orange laboratory, Edison used some of the standard size books, as well as numerous pocket notebooks, to record ideas about the operations of his factories and businesses. In addition, there are several hundred notebooks containing evaluations of phonograph recordings and tests of storage batteries.
Thomas Edison’s Early Life. Thomas Alva Edison was born on February 11, 1847, in Milan, Ohio. He was the seventh and last child born to Samuel Edison Jr. and Nancy Elliott Edison, and would be one of four to survive to adulthood. In his 84 years, Thomas Edison acquired a record number of 1,093 patents (singly or jointly) and was the driving force behind such innovations as the phonograph, the incandescent light bulb and one of the earliest motion picture cameras.
Thomas Alva Edison, Jr. Thomas Alva, Junior, was born on January 10, 1876. Since his sister Marion was nicknamed “Dot,” he was nicknamed “Dash.” He boarded at St. Paul’s School in Concord, New Hampshire and the J.M.Hawkins School in Staten Island, New York. Theodore Miller Edison was born at Glenmont on July 10, 1898. Edison was 51 when his son was born. He was named after a beloved brother of Mina who had just died in the Spanish-American War.
Edison was also a great admirer of the enlightenment thinker Thomas Paine. He wrote a book praising Paine in 1925, he also shared similar religious beliefs to Thomas Paine – no particular religion, but belief in a Supreme Being. Thomas Edison was born in Milan, Ohio on Feb 11, 1847, the youngest of seven siblings. His parents were middle class, though they were not wealthy, especially when the railroad bypassed Milan, forcing the family to move to Port Huron, Michigan.