In 2011, 96 people age 65 and older served as living kidney donors in the United States, according to data from the United Network for Organ Sharing, which manages the nation’s transplant system. More than half of them do not have upper age limits for kidney transplant recipients. But physicians are conservative about living kidney donors: Nearly three-quarters of transplant centers have not accepted organs from people older than 70, according to Johns Hopkins research.
Based on these data, it is our opinion that there is no reason to establish an absolute upper age limit for kidney transplantation, assuming the organ supply is sufficient and the patient and physician are willing to accept the initially higher risk with transplant, Dr. Heldal maintained. The only difference was a higher percentage of female patients in the transplantation group (32% vs 19%; P = .05). During the study period, 81% of the elderly patients received a kidney transplant, with 16% of organs obtained from living donors.
Juan Regueiro Lopez, MD. Living kidney donors usually range in age from 18-60 years, although there is limited experience beyond this range. Donors below 18 years of age are considered children and cannot usually provide informed consent without parental approval
Years On The Waiting List. There’s no question about the burgeoning need for kidneys. Almost half of the 871,000 Americans with advanced kidney disease are older than 65, and rates of chronic kidney disease in this age group more than doubled between 2000 and 2008, according to the National Institutes of Health. There are two options for patients with advanced kidney disease: a transplant or dialysis. With a transplant, the risk of death from severe disease is cut by about half, compared with patients who depend on dialysis, and quality of life is significantly improved, according to 2003 research. In some parts of the country, it can take six to eight years for someone to rise to the top of transplant lists, according to transplant surgeons. The harsh reality is that more than half of kidney transplant candidates over the age of 60 will die before receiving an organ from a deceased donor, researchers estimate.
A. A living kidney donor is usually between ages 18 to 65 and in excellent health. Donors over age 65 are considered on a case by case basis. 
Almost half of the 871,000 Americans with advanced kidney disease are older than 65, and rates of chronic kidney disease in this age group more than doubled between 2000 and 2008, according to the National Institutes of Health. There are two options for patients with advanced kidney disease: a transplant or dialysis. More than half of them do not have upper age limits for kidney transplant recipients. But physicians are conservative about living kidney donors: Nearly three-quarters of transplant centers have not accepted organs from people older than 70, according to Johns Hopkins research.
In 2011, 96 people age 65 and older served as living kidney donors in the United States; altogether, 1,382 older adults have done so since 1988, according to data from the United Network for Organ Sharing, which manages the nation’s transplant system. In some parts of the country, it can take six to eight years for someone to rise to the top of transplant lists, according to transplant surgeons. The harsh reality is that more than half of kidney transplant candidates over the age of 60 will die before receiving an organ from a deceased donor, researchers estimate.
In general, patients of advanced age are not accepted for pancreas transplant or combined kidney and pancreas transplant. A patient's medical status is a more important consideration than chronological age but in general, patients greater than 50-55 years of age are rarely accepted. 
The average additional years gained through transplant is 3.7 in patients 65 years and older, and 8.7 in younger patients, he said. In a population with a well-matched graft, he noted, there is little to no influence of the recipient's age on outcome. The only difference was a higher percentage of female patients in the transplantation group (32% vs 19%; P = .05). During the study period, 81% of the elderly patients received a kidney transplant, with 16% of organs obtained from living donors.