Key points from the evidence. Aclidinium bromide (Eklira Genuair) is an inhaled long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) for maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adults with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It received a European marketing authorisation in July 2012 and was launched in the UK in September 2012. (2012) Efficacy and safety of a 12-week treatment with twice-daily aclidinium bromide in COPD patients (ACCORD COPD I). COPD: Journal of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease 9: 90–101. Jones PW, Singh D, Bateman ED et al.
Aclidinium is used to control and prevent symptoms (such as wheezing, shortness of breath) caused by ongoing lung disease (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease-COPD which includes bronchitis and emphysema). Use this medication regularly to get the most benefit from it. This medication works best if used at evenly spaced intervals. To help you remember, use it at the same times each day. Do not increase your dose, use this medication more often, or stop using it without first consulting your doctor.
Aclidinium bromide is a long-acting antimuscarinic agent, which is often referred to as an anticholinergic. It has similar affinity to the subtypes of muscarinic receptors M 1 to M 5. In the airways, it exhibits pharmacological effects through inhibition of M 3 receptor at the smooth muscle leading to bronchodilation. Aclidinium bromide is a white powder. It is very slightly soluble in water and ethanol and sparingly soluble in methanol. Aclidinium bromide powder consists of a dry powder formulation of aclidinium bromide for oral inhalation only. Aclidinium bromide powder is a breath-actuated multi-dose dry powder inhaler
Aclidinium bromide is an anticholinergic with specificity for muscarinic receptors. Aclidinium bromide is a synthetic, quaternary ammonium compound, chemically described as 1-Azoniabicyclo[2.2.2]octane, 3- [(hydroxydi-2-thienylacetyl)oxy]-1-(3-phenoxypropyl)-, bromide, (3R)-. The structural formula is: Aclidinium bromide is a white powder. It is very slightly soluble in water and ethanol and sparingly soluble in methanol. Aclidinium bromide powder consists of a dry powder formulation of aclidinium bromide for oral inhalation only. Aclidinium bromide powder is a breath-actuated multi-dose dry powder inhaler.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/23/2015. Tudorza Pressair (aclidinium bromide) inhalation powder is an anticholinergic indicated for the long-term maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Excretion of aclidinium bromide, the active ingredient in Tudorza Pressair into human breast milk is probable. There are no human studies that have investigated the effects of Tudorza Pressair on breastfed infants. Caution should be exercised when Tudorza Pressair is administered to nursing women.
TUDORZA PRESSAIR consists of a dry powder formulation of aclidinium bromide for oral inhalation only. Aclidinium bromide, the active component of TUDORZA PRESSAIR is an anticholinergic with specificity for muscarinic receptors. Aclidinium bromide is a synthetic, quaternary ammonium compound, chemically described as 1Azoniabicyclo[2.2.2]octane, 3-[(hydroxydi-2-thienylacetyl)oxy]-1-(3phenoxypropyl)-, bromide, (3R)-. This results in delivery of 375 mcg aclidinium bromide from the mouthpiece, based on in vitro testing at an average flow rate of 63 L/min with constant volume of 2 L. The amount of drug delivered to the lungs will vary depending on patient factors such as inspiratory flow rate and inspiratory time.
Umeclidinium bromide is an anticholinergic drug approved for use in combination with vilanterol (as umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol) for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The structural formula is: Aclidinium bromide is a white powder with a molecular formula of C 26 H 30 NO 4 S 2 Br and a molecular mass of 564.56. It is very slightly soluble in water and ethanol and sparingly soluble in methanol. This results in delivery of 375 mcg aclidinium bromide from the mouthpiece, based on in vitro testing at an average flow rate of 63 L/min with constant volume of 2 L. The amount of drug delivered to the lungs will vary depending on patient factors such as inspiratory flow rate and inspiratory time.
This systematic review explored the efficacy and safety of aclidinium bromide in comparison with placebo and other long-acting bronchodilators for treatment of moderate to severe COPD. Randomised controlled trials were identified through systematic searches of different databases of published trials. The effect of aclidinium bromide on exercise tolerance, as assessed by exercise endurance time, and dynamic hyperinflation in patients with moderate to severe COPD seems to be at least comparable to other long-acting bronchodilators, incl. tiotropium bromide and indacaterol.