A very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the platinum group, iridium is generally credited with being the second densest element (after osmium) based on measured density, although calculations involving the space lattices of the elements show that iridium is denser. Iridium is one of the rarest elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of only three tonnes. 191 Ir and 193 Ir are the only two naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable isotopes; the latter is the more abundant of the two.
Best Answer: Iridium is in the same chemical group as platinum, so it shares many of its properties. As a metal, it's silvery-white with a very slight yellowish cast. Here's a link to a picture: http://www.pniok.de/ir.htm It gets its name ('iridium' means rainbows) from the many brightly-coloured salts it forms. 
A member of the platinum group metals, iridium is white, resembling platinum, but with a slight yellowish cast. Because of its hardness, brittleness, and very high melting point, solid iridium is difficult to machine, form, or work, thus powder metallurgy is commonly employed, instead. Iridium is one of the rarest elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of only three tonnes. 191 Ir and 193 Ir are the only two naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable isotopes; the latter is the more abundant of the two.
The name iridium is appropriate, for its salts are highly coloured. Iridium is white, similar to platinum, but with a slight yellowish cast. It is very hard and brittle, making it very hard to machine, form, or work. It is the most corrosion resistant metal known, and was used in making the standard metre bar of Paris, which is a 90% platinum-10% iridium alloy. 
The pigment iridium black, which consists of very finely divided iridium, is used for painting porcelain an intense black; it was said that all other porcelain black colors appear grey by the side of it. Iridium is one of the rarest elements in Earth's crust, with annual production and consumption of only three tonnes. 191 Ir and 193 Ir are the only two naturally occurring isotopes of iridium, as well as the only stable isotopes; the latter is the more abundant of the two.
1 Since the color of your home is the first thing an…. 2  The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum. 3  It is well known for being the most corrosive and r…. 1 The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum. 2  It is well known for being the most corrosive and r….
Iridium is a chemical element with symbol Ir and atomic number 77.  It is a very hard, brittle, silvery-white transition metal of the  platinum family. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Iridium was discovered in 1803 among insoluble impurities in natural platinum. Smithson Tennant, the primary discoverer, named the iridium for the goddess Iris, personificatio … n of the rainbow, because of the striking and diverse colors of its salts.
Iridium is a very hard, usually brittle, extremely corrosion-resistant silver-white metal with a face-centered cubic crystalline structure. It falls between platinum and osmiu … m in Group 9 of the periodic table. It is not certain whether osmium or iridium is the most dense element. 1 The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum. 2  It is well known for being the most corrosive and r….
Iridium is a metallic element that is both hard and brittle. Described as whitish-yellow or silvery in color, it just a little less dense than osmium, which is the densest ele … ment-22.560 gm/cm3 compared to 22.6 gm/cm3. 1 The Element Iridium in Chemistry The element iridium is a platinum group metal that is a very durable, hard, and lustrous metal and is similar to platinum. 2  It is well known for being the most corrosive and r….