Intestinal villi (singular: villus) are small, finger-like projections that protrude from the epithelial lining of the intestinal wall. Each villus is approximately 0.5-1.6 mm in length, and has many microvilli projecting from the enterocytes of its epithelium which collectively form the striated or brush border. Villi are specialised for absorption in the small intestine as they have a thin wall, about one cell thick, which enables a shorter diffusion path. They have a large surface area so there will be more efficient absorption of fatty acids and glycerol into the blood stream.
The small intestine consists of three different parts: the duodenum, jejunum and ileum. The small intestine contains small finger-like projections of tissue called villi which increase the surface area of the intestine and contain specialized cells that transport substances into the bloodstream. Although these villi do not aid in the digestion of nutrients, they do help with nutrient absorption. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Vili are folds in the walls of the gastrointestinal tract (intestines) which increase surface area. Basically, as food and stuff you've ingested is pushed past, all these little folds (vili and microvili), they absorbs the nutrients you need in your body. The villus is the main structure of the small intestine, villi the the plural. The inner wall of the small intestine has many ridges each containing many villi, each villus has a network of blood & lymohatic vessels. After digestion, nutrients goes to the small intestine, then get absorbed into the blood, the villi does the absorption and transport the nutrient into the blood & the lymph
In the intestinal wall, the villi (with micro-villi on them) are used to increase the surface area (just like the inside of your lungs do). This means that in the relatively s … mall space, a lot of the nutrients in the food you eat can be absorbed by them and then diffused into the blood stream. Once the churn … ed up food is in the small intestine which is covered in villus (like a brush) the microvilli on the villus, to increase the surface area further, absorb all of the soluble glucose. Inside of the villus are capillaries that absorb most of the churned up food.
Villi, the singular of which is villus, are finger-like projections in the small intestine that help absorb food more efficiently in the body. The small intestine is an organ in the body in which most digestion occurs. A person with damaged villi may not be able to absorb nutrients into their body. Villi, which are tiny projections that line the walls of the intestines, absorb nutrients during the digestive process. Villi, located in the small intestine, help absorb food
The villi are tiny hair-like appendages which line the small intestine. They increase the surface area of the intestine, helping digestion due to their rich blood supply and s … ingle-celled wall, they are able to absorb nutrients. Once the churn … ed up food is in the small intestine which is covered in villus (like a brush) the microvilli on the villus, to increase the surface area further, absorb all of the soluble glucose. Inside of the villus are capillaries that absorb most of the churned up food.
Villi are found in the small intestine. They are small finger like growths coming out from the sides of your intestine which slow down food to absorb the most nutrients possib … le. Once the churn … ed up food is in the small intestine which is covered in villus (like a brush) the microvilli on the villus, to increase the surface area further, absorb all of the soluble glucose. Inside of the villus are capillaries that absorb most of the churned up food.
190 Followers. A. The small intestine has an inner lining of cells that form finger-like projections called villi. The villi are important because they increase the number of cells and surface area available for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen into the bloodstream. In celiac disease, inflammation destroys the villi, causing the inner lining of the small intestine to become flattened. 
The villi are the parts that absorb nutrients from food and pass them into the bloodstream. Villi are also covered with microvilli. The purpose of both structures is to increase the small intestine’s surface area so that nutrient absorption is enhanced. Villi increase the surface area where substances are able to be absorbed in the small intestine 30-fold while microvilli increase it 60-fold. A person with damaged villi may not be able to absorb nutrients into their body. Villi, which are tiny projections that line the walls of the intestines, absorb nutrients during the digestive process. Villi, located in the small intestine, help absorb food in the body.