Antibiotics such as amoxicillin, cephalexin, or penicillin are used to treat strep throat. Antibiotics work only against bacterial infections such as strep throat. They will not help sore throats caused by allergies or viral infections such as colds. Antibiotics are commonly used to: 1  Kill the bacteria and shorten the time you are contagious. 
In contrast, if allergies or irritants are the cause of your sore throat, it will usually last longer unless the cause is eliminated. If strep throat isn't treated with antibiotics, you will continue to be contagious for 2 to 3 weeks even if your symptoms go away. You are much less contagious within 24 hours after you start antibiotics and are less likely to develop complications of the strep infection. Treating strep throat can greatly reduce your risk for rheumatic fever and its complications. It is not clear whether treating the strep infection with antibiotics reduces your risk for inflammation of the kidneys (acute glomerulonephritis).
The only time antibiotics may be needed is if the infection overwhelms the immune response. If your bacterial throat infection is caused by Group A Streptococcus (strep throat) it is recommended to treat that with antibiotics because of the possible complications including kidney disease, and heart valve damage. 
How You Get Strep Throat. Strep throat is an infection in the throat and tonsils caused by group A Streptococcus bacteria (called group A strep). Group A strep bacteria can also live in a person's nose and throat without causing illness. The bacteria are spread through contact with droplets after an infected person coughs or sneezes. Healthcare professionals can do a quick test to detemine if a sore throat is strep throat and decide if antibiotics are needed. Proper treatment can help you feel better faster and prevent spreading it to others!
Strep throat is a common type of sore throat in children, but it's not very common in adults. Healthcare professionals can do a quick test to detemine if a sore throat is strep throat and decide if antibiotics are needed. Proper treatment can help you feel better faster and prevent spreading it to others!
Best Answer: You need antibiotics to get rid of the strep. The sore throat will go away without treatment. The rheumatic fever or post-streptococcal glomerluonephritis will not, and if you're one of the unlucky ones to get that, could have a devastating impact on your life (lifelong heart problems or kidney failure). The reason doctors encourage treatment of strep throat with antibiotics, though, is not to get you well any faster. If there's a difference, it's trivial. The need for antibiotics is in preventing complications, especially rheumatic fever, which, while rare, can be a devastating illness.
When someone with a painfully sore throat and fever is taken to the doctor, the appropriate exam includes a rapid strep test a throat swab that checks for the presence of the strep antigen. The test, which can be done in the doctor s office, takes 5 or 10 minutes to process and is 70 to 80 percent accurate. Complicated Decision. Symptoms of a strep throat and a sore throat caused by a virus can overlap (children may experience stuffy noses, coughs and sneezing with a strep infection as well as with a cold), further complicating a doctor s decision on whether to treat the illness or to let nature take its course.
“You need antibiotics to get rid of the strep. The sore throat will go away without treatment. The rheumatic fever or post-streptococcal glomerluonephritis will not, and if you’re one of the unlucky ones to get that, could have a devastating impact on your life (lifelong heart problems or kidney failure). (In fact some studies show that it is actually better not to start antibiotics during the first 2 to 3 days of the strep infection as it can make a recurrence more likely.) If you have a sore throat (especially with white spots or streaks) and fever for five days, it is time to get to a doctor.