Ureters are tube-shaped organs that deliver urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Because the linings of the ureters and the bladder are continuous, it is possible for infection to start in the bladder and ascend into the tubes. The ureters are tube shaped organs whose main function is to deliver urine from the kidneys downward to the urinary bladder. They have a funnel shaped area at the top where they connect to the kidneys called the renal pelvis. These tubes are approximately 9.8 inches (25 cm) long
The ureter is a small tube that connects a kidney to a urinary bladder. Humans, along with most other mammals, typically have two ureters, with one coming from each kidney. These ureters run down the back of the abdominal cavity before connecting to the urinary bladder. 
Ureter. The ureter is a tube that carries urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. There are two ureters, one attached to each kidney. The upper half of the ureter is located in the abdomen and the lower half is located in the pelvic area. The ureter is about 10 to 12 inches long in the average adult
The ureter is the tube that connects each kidney to the bladder. The kidneys clean the blood and filter waste from it. This process produces a liquid waste, urine. Urine flows from the kidneys through the ureters to the bladder. The urine is stored in the bladder until a person urinates. During urination, the urine leaves the body by passing from the bladder through another tube, the urethra, which is open at one end.
Each ureter enters the bladder through a tunnel in the bladder wall, which is angled to prevent the urine from running back into the ureter when the bladder contracts. A ureter is one of two uterine tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Each ureter is about ten to twelve inches long. Urine flows down partly by gravity, but mainly by waves of contractions, which pass several times per minute through the muscle layers of the urethral wall
In human anatomy, the ureters are tubes made of smooth muscle fibers that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. In humans, the ureters arise from the pelvis of each kidney, and descend on top of the psoas major muscle to reach the brim of the pelvis.
ureter. the fibromuscular tube, 41 to 46 cm long, through which the urine passes from the kidney to the bladder. adj., adj ure´teral, ureter´ic. As urine is produced by each kidney, it passes into the ureter, which, by contracting rhythmically, forces the urine along and empties it in spurts into the bladder. After being stored temporarily in the bladder, the urine passes out of the body by way of the urethra. the fibromuscular tube through which the urine passes from the kidney to the bladder. ectopic ureter. an abnormally placed opening of the ureter, either into the urinary bladder or at another site in the lower urinary or genital tract. There is usually constant dribbling of urine and commonly an associated pyuria.