1 Olfactory nerve is the only sensory cranial nerve that projects directly to the cerebral cortex. 2  Optic nerve terminates in thalamus. 3  Vagus nerve is the only cranial nerve which supplies in areas other than head and neck. 4  Trochlear nerve is the only cranial nerve to emerge from dorsal surface of brain stem. 1 Vagus nerve is the only cranial nerve which supplies in areas other than head and neck. 2  Trochlear nerve is the only cranial nerve to emerge from dorsal surface of brain stem. 3  Trochlear nerve is smallest in terms of number of axons it carries. 4  Trochlear nerve supplies only one muscle – Superior Oblique.
1 The facial nerve then passes through the parotid gland, which it does not innervate, to form the parotid plexus, which splits into five branches innervating the muscles of facial expression (temporal, zygomatic, buccal, marginal mandibular, cervical). 1 In the tympanic segment, the facial nerve runs through the tympanic cavity, medial to the incus. 2  The pyramidal eminence is the second bend in the facial nerve, where the nerve runs downward as the mastoid segment. 3  In the temporal part of the facial canal, the nerve gives to the stapedius and chorda tympani.
The 12 Cranial Nerves. There are twelve Cranial Nerves that supply the head, neck and internal organs. Here you can find a structured list of the nerves in numerical order, which includes their position, exit from the skull, what each nerve supplies and whether it is a motor or sensory nerve.
Gross Anatomy. The vagus nerve is the longest cranial nerve. It contains motor and sensory fibers and, because it passes through the neck and thorax to the abdomen, has the widest distribution in the body. It contains somatic and visceral afferent fibers, as well as general and special visceral efferent fibers. (See Table 1, below.).
The 3 branches that exit from the mastoid segment of the facial nerve are (1) the nerve to the stapedius muscle, (2) the chorda tympani nerve, and (3) the nerve from the auricular branch of the vagus. The labyrinthine segment of the facial nerve lies beneath the middle cranial fossa and is the shortest segment in the facial canal (approximately 3.5-4mm in length). In this segment, the nerve is directed obliquely forward, perpendicular to the axis of the temporal bone, as shown above.
Cranial nerves are the nerves that emerge directly from the brain (including the brainstem), in contrast to spinal nerves (which emerge from segments of the spinal cord). Cranial nerves exchange information between the brain and parts of the body, primarily to and from regions of the head and neck. Spinal nerves emerge sequentially from the spinal cord with the spinal nerve closest to the head (C1) emerging in the space above the first cervical vertebra. The cranial nerves emerge from the central nervous system above this level.
The course of the facial nerve is very complex. There are many branches, which transmit a combination of sensory, motor and parasympathetic fibres. Anatomically, the course of the facial nerve can be divided into two parts: 1  Intracranial – the course of the nerve through the cranial cavity, and the cranium itself. Branches of the facial nerve are responsible for innervating many of the muscles of the head and neck. All these muscles are derivatives of the second pharyngeal arch. The first motor branch arises within the facial canal; the nerve to stapedius.
True to its name the vagus nerve wanders from the brain stem through organs in the neck, thorax and abdomen. The nerve exits the brain stem through rootlets in the medulla that are caudal to the rootlets for the ninth cranial nerve. The rootlets form the tenth cranial nerve and exit the cranium via the jugular foramen. 
The facial nerve, or cranial nerve (CN) VII, is the nerve of facial expression. The pathways of the facial nerve are variable, and knowledge of the key intratemporal and extratemporal landmarks is essential for accurate physical diagnosis and safe and effective surgical intervention in the head and neck. The labyrinthine segment of the facial nerve lies beneath the middle cranial fossa and is the shortest segment in the facial canal (approximately 3.5-4mm in length). In this segment, the nerve is directed obliquely forward, perpendicular to the axis of the temporal bone, as shown above.
Introduction. Cranial nerves are those nerves which arise from the brain and brain stem rather than the spinal cord. Nerves arising from the spinal cord are the peripheral nerves. There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves and these pairs of nerves passage through foramina in the skull, either individually or in groups. Accessory nerve (XI). The accessory nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervation of structures derived from the branchial arches. It is also part of a group together with the glossopharyngeal and vagus nerves that passes through the jugular foramen which is termed the vagus group.