(2) In VoIP terminology jitter refers to a type of packet delay where the delay has an impact on the quality of the voice conversation. (3) Generally, any distortion of a signal or image caused by poor synchronization. 
Jitter is a variation in packet transit delay caused by queuing, contention and serialization effects on the path through the network. Packet to packet delay variation is used as a basis for the RTCP (RFC1889) jitter measurement. If the delay of two successive packets is t1 and t2 then the packet to packet delay variation is abs(t2-t1).
Packet jitter is expressed as an average of the deviation from the network mean latency. However, for this use, the term is imprecise. The standards-based term is  packet delay variation  (PDV). PDV is an important quality of service factor in assessment of network performance. Deterministic jitter is a type of clock timing jitter or data signal jitter that is predictable and reproducible. The peak-to-peak value of this jitter is bounded, and the bounds can easily be observed and predicted.
You can se if there is some jitter in your network using RTP timestamps in Cisco IOS. Cisco IOS has by default those buffers set like a dynamic queue. This queue will change its size depending on the packet timing and tempo when arriving to destination. In this image above, you can notice that the time it takes for packets to be send is not the same as the period in which the will arrive at the receiver side. One of the packets encounters some delay on his way and it is received little later than it was assumed. Here are the jitter buffers entering the story.
Jitter is any deviation in, or displacement of, the signal pulses in a high-frequency digital signal. The deviation can be in terms of amplitude, phase timing or the width of the signal pulse. Among the causes of jitter are electromagnetic interference (EMI) and crosstalk with other signals. Jitter in IP networks is the variation in the latency on a packet flow between two systems, when some packets take longer to travel from one system to the other. Jitter results from network congestion, timing drift and route change
1 Introduction. Jitter is a variation in packet transit delay caused by queuing, contention and serialization effects on the path through the network. In general, higher levels of jitter are more likely to occur on either slow or heavily congested links. Packet to packet delay variation is used as a basis for the RTCP (RFC1889) jitter measurement. If the delay of two successive packets is t1 and t2 then the packet to packet delay variation is abs(t2-t1).
Introduction. This document describes methods for measuring delay, jitter, and packet loss on the data network using Cisco IOS® Service Assurance Agent (SAA) and Round Trip Time Monitor (RTTMON) features and Cisco routers. These features enable you to test and collect delay, jitter, and packet loss statistics on the data network. Internetwork Performance Monitor (IPM) is a Cisco network management application that can configure the features and monitor the SAA and RTTMON data.
In the context of computer networks, jitter is the variation in latency as measured in the variability over time of the packet latency across a network. A network with constant latency has no variation (or jitter). Deterministic jitter is a type of clock timing jitter or data signal jitter that is predictable and reproducible. The peak-to-peak value of this jitter is bounded, and the bounds can easily be observed and predicted.
Jitter is specific issue that normally exists in packet networks and this phenomenon is usually not causing any communication problems. TCP /IP is responsible for dealing with the jitter impact on communication. In this image above, you can notice that the time it takes for packets to be send is not the same as the period in which the will arrive at the receiver side. One of the packets encounters some delay on his way and it is received little later than it was assumed. Here are the jitter buffers entering the story.