Save. Henri Matisse's artwork spanned some of the most exciting periods in art history. Like Picasso, he worked in many different mediums and was one of the first great painters of the 20th century. Though his work varied in subject and material, his style is what is commonly referred to as Fauvism
Fauvism. The term fauve is french for wild beast, coined by art critic Louis Vauxcelles in reaction to the work of Henri Matisse and other artists of what became known as the Fauvist Movement in France. Henri Matisse's artwork spanned some of the most exciting periods in art history. Like Picasso, he worked in many different mediums and was one of the first great painters of the 20th century. Though his work varied in subject and material, his style is what is commonly referred to as Fauvism
Confidence votes 9. Henri Matisse was had a unique painting style all his own. He liked to use bright and dark colours. And he used his wife as a model for many of his paintings. His subjects were largely domestic or figurative. It was called Fauvism. 
Matisse began painting still-lives and landscapes in the traditional Flemish style, at which he achieved reasonable proficiency. Most of his early works employ a dark palette and tend to be gloomy. Chardin was one of Matisse's most admired painters having made four the French still-life master paintings in the Louvre. 
Matisse is commonly regarded, along with Pablo Picasso and Marcel Duchamp, as one of the three artists who helped to define the revolutionary developments in the plastic arts in the opening decades of the twentieth century, responsible for significant developments in painting and sculpture. Henri-Émile-émile Benoit (. [benoît matisse ɑ̃ʁi emil] ; bənwɑ Matis 31 – december 1869 3) november 1954 Was a, french artist known for both his use of colour and his fluid and. Original draughtsmanship he was, a, draughtsman printmaker, and sculptor but is known primarily as. a painter
Synopsis. Henri Matisse is widely regarded as the greatest colorist of the twentieth century and as a rival to Pablo Picasso in the importance of his innovations. He emerged as a Post-Impressionist, and first achieved prominence as the leader of the French movement Fauvism. Matisse once declared that he wanted his art to be one of balance, of purity and serenity devoid of troubling or depressing subject matter, and this aspiration was an important influence on some, such as Clement Greenberg, who looked to art to provide shelter from the disorientation of the modern world.
Henri Matisse. Henri Matisse was a French painter and sculptor who helped forge modern art. From his early Fauvist works to his late cutouts, he emphasized expansive fields of color, the expressive potential of gesture, and the sensuality inherent in art-making. Fauvism, the first twentieth-century movement in modern art, was initially inspired by the examples of Vincent van Gogh, Paul Gauguin, Georges Seurat, and Paul Cezanne. Cézanne The (fauves wild) beasts were a loosely allied group Of french painters with shared. interests
Fauvism is the style of les Fauves (French for the wild beasts), a loose group of early twentieth-century Modern artists whose works emphasized painterly qualities and strong color over the representational or realistic values retained by Impressionism. 