Bacteria builds up in your bladder and kidneys if you aren't flushing the toxins out properly. This build up of bacteria in itself wont do you any harm, but it does mean you are more likely to develop urinary tract (UTI) and kidney infections if you dont drink plenty of fluids. RE: Bacteria in Urine? what does it mean when you have MANY of bacteria in your urine during a test. doctor said its probably fine and let me go but i dont think so... any advice? i did take the test results from them.
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative. If organisms grow in numbers large enough to indicate an infection, the culture is positive.
Urine is normally sterile, which means that it contains no bacteria. A small number of bacteria may be found in the urine of many healthy people. This is usually considered to be harmless. However, a certain level of bacteria can mean that the bladder, urethra, or kidneys are infected. www.healthoracle.org 1 Bacteria in Urine Urine in the healthy bladder is normally free of bacteria. However, bacteria from the rectal area may enter the urinary tract through the urethra and travel the short distance to the bladder.
Urine bacteria: If the urine was collected correctly, bacteria in the urine is a sign of a urinary tract infection (uti). Urine is sterile and if there are bacteria in it, you will need to have a culture sent off to find out what antibiotic can kill the bacterium that is causing your uti. ...Read more. : Bacteria in the urine as an isolated event is not very helpful or specific. This could be caused by a poor collection or by actual bacteria in the urine this does not necessarily indicate an infection. Urinary tract infection is usually heralded by pain urgency and frequency of urination
Depends upon type.: In most instances, urine should not contain any bacteria, and the presence of bacteria might indicate an infection. Sometimes when a urine culture is collected, a few bacteria from the skin or end of the urethra may contaminate the urine. : Bacteria in the urine as an isolated event is not very helpful or specific. This could be caused by a poor collection or by actual bacteria in the urine this does not necessarily indicate an infection. Urinary tract infection is usually heralded by pain urgency and frequency of urination ...Read more.
Urine Culture Overview. A urine culture is a test that can detect bacteria in your urine. This test can find and identify the germs that cause a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Bacteria, which typically cause UTIs, can enter the urinary tract through the urethra. 
View image. Asymptomatic bacteriuria means you have bacteria in your urine but you have no symptoms of infection. If you are healthy, this condition is usually not a problem and not something that your healthcare provider needs to check for. If you have one of these conditions, you will be checked for asymptomatic bacteriuria. Urine is normally sterile, which means that it contains no bacteria. A small number of bacteria may be found in the urine of many healthy people. This is usually considered to be harmless. However, a certain level of bacteria can mean that the bladder, urethra, or kidneys are infected. Anything that blocks the flow of urine or prevents the bladder from emptying completely can cause bacteria to grow in the urine. For example, a kidney stone or tumor might block the flow of urine