The EABC enables business leaders to engage in high-level dialogue on economic and public policy issues with Australian and European political leaders, senior officials, diplomats and business delegations.
Climate Diplomacy rings out across Australia. 2015 is a big year for climate change action. In a coordinated way the European Union (EU) has made it a focus both in action and in diplomacy in the lead up to the Paris climate talks at the end of November.
European Union Ambassador to Australia Sem Fabrizi said the documentary would also be shown in Greek-Australian Colleges throughout Australia. The European Union and its Member States will jointly hold events in Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Hobart and Perth, Ambassador Fabrizi said.
In this section of our website, you can access information regarding the activities of our the Embassy of Greece in Canberra, the services we provide and our contact information. You can also read about our bilateral relations and find detailed and up-to-date information about Greece.
The EU Ambassador to Australia, Sem Fabrizi, said the strategy was great news for EU-Australia trade relations. The trade strategy states that authorisation will be sought to negotiate FTAs with Australia and New Zealand, taking into account the EU agricultural sensitivities, Ambassador Fabrizi said.
On 12 April the Ambassador of the European Union to Australia H.E. Sem Fabrizi welcomed the Australian Prime Minister The Hon. Tony Abbott MP to a dinner at the EU Residence together with the Ambassadors of the EU Member States represented in Canberra.
The EU has shown it's leadership with 23% of emissions already cut in the EU. According to a report published by the European Environment Agency on 20 October, 2015 greenhouse gas emissions in Europe decreased by 23 percent between 1990 and 2014 and reached the lowest levels on record.
UK Trade and Investment (UKTI) kicks off the inward mission to London for 10 of Australia's best fintech companies.