Triassic period. The Triassic began after the worst mass extinction ever, at the end of the Permian. Life on Earth took a while to recover and diversify. The Triassic was characterised by heat, vast deserts and warm seas. Towards the end of the Triassic, 220 million years ago, there was another extinction, which wiped out many of the non-dinosaurs including the dicynodonts such as Placerias and primitive archosaurs such as Postosuchus. It was after this that dinosaurs really started to radiate
What the Earth was like. Reconstruction of the Earth in the Triassic period, 248 million - 205 million years ago. Credit: Dr Ron Blakey, NAU Geology. Desert Earth A vast desert formed in Earth's prehistoric past when the supercontinent of Pangaea straddled the equator and stretched to the poles. Towards the end of the Triassic, 220 million years ago, there was another extinction, which wiped out many of the non-dinosaurs including the dicynodonts such as Placerias and primitive archosaurs such as Postosuchus. It was after this that dinosaurs really started to radiate and diversify.
The Triassic /traɪˈaesɪk/ traɪˈæsɪk is a geologic period and system that extends from roughly 250 to 200 (mya.252 ± 17.0 06 to.201 ± 3.0 2 million years), ago an interval of.51 04 million. years The Triassic period ended with a mass extinction, which was particularly severe in the oceans; the conodonts disappeared, as did all the marine reptiles except ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs. Invertebrates like brachiopods, gastropods, and molluscs were severely affected.
The Triassic began in the wake of the Permian–Triassic extinction event, which left the Earth's biosphere impoverished; it would take well into the middle of the period for life to recover its former diversity. Therapsids and archosaurs were the chief terrestrial vertebrates during this time. The Triassic period ended with a mass extinction, which was particularly severe in the oceans; the conodonts disappeared, as did all the marine reptiles except ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs. Invertebrates like brachiopods, gastropods, and molluscs were severely affected.
The Triassic /traɪˈaesɪk/ traɪˈæsɪk is a geologic period and system that extends from roughly 250 to 200 (mya.252 ± 17.0 06 to.201 ± 3.0 2 million years), ago an interval of.51 04 million. Years it is the first period of The Mesozoic, era and lies between The permian And jurassic. periods The Triassic period ended with a mass extinction, which was particularly severe in the oceans; the conodonts disappeared, as did all the marine reptiles except ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs. Invertebrates like brachiopods, gastropods, and molluscs were severely affected.
Click here to download. The start of the Triassic period (and the Mesozoic era) was a desolate time in Earth's history. Something—a bout of violent volcanic eruptions, climate change, or perhaps a fatal run-in with a comet or asteroid—had triggered the extinction of more than 90 percent of Earth's species. 
The Mesozoic Era is divided into three periods: the Triassic Period, the Jurassic Period, , and the Cretaceous Period. The Triassic began around 248 million years ago, after the mass extinction that brought an end to the Permian Period. It lasted about 42 million years. Reptiles Inherit The Earth. The Triassic Period is the first period of the Mesozoic Era. The great extinction at the end of the Permian period had brought the end to 90% of the living species on Earth. The Triassic was a time of growing new species to repopulate the planet. A New Era. This time was the beginning of a new era, the Mesozoic Era
The Triassic Period was the first period of the Mesozoic Era and occurred between 251 million and 199 million years ago. It followed the great mass extinction at the end of the Permian Period and was a time when life outside of the oceans began to diversify. 