Recovery time for grade 1 sprain may take 2 to 6 weeks. Grade 2 and 3 may take a longer time to heal and may take 6 to 10 weeks for complete recovery. Now you must be aware of the methods to treat a sprained foot. To speed up the recovery time, take complete rest by allowing only minimal movement of the injured leg.
Home Treatment. Ankle sprains take an average of 6 weeks to heal but can take can up to 4 months, depending on the severity. An ankle brace, air stirrup, hiking boots, or other form of ankle support should be worn during this time to protect the ligaments. Some people who have repeated or severe sprains can develop long-term joint pain and weakness. Treating a sprained ankle can help prevent ongoing ankle problems. Rehabilitation (rehab) exercises for an ankle sprain can be done at home to promote proper healing and prevent chronic pain and instability.
Grade 3 Sprain. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely. Physicians usually immobilize the joint and prescribe physical therapy, just as with a grade 2 sprain. However, the immobilization period is longer, as is the physical-therapy program
In more severe sprains, you may hear and/or feel something tear, along with a pop or snap. You will probably have extreme pain at first and will not be able to walk or even put weight on your foot. Usually, the more pain and swelling you have, the more severe your ankle sprain is and the longer it will take to heal. 
Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries. There's a grade one, where the ligament that holds the joint in place is stretched. There's sometimes a grade two, where you can get some tearing of the ligament, or a grade three, where it is torn completely. As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together. General rule of thumb, say for ankle sprain, perhaps a grade one: two, three weeks; grade two: four weeks; and a grade three: sometimes four, six weeks -- sometimes longer. Comments. 
The rehabilitation of a Grade 3 ankle sprain normally takes 6 to 12 weeks, but is quite variable depending on your specific injury. Your physiotherapist or surgeon will be able to provide you with more specific guidelines and advice. For more specific advice about your sprained ankle, please ask your physiotherapist. 
With a grade one sprain, there is slight instability, pain, swelling, joint stiffness, and trouble walking. Grade two sprains can take 4 to 6 weeks to heal. This involves partial tearing of the ligaments. Signs of a grade two sprain include instability, moderate to severe pain, swelling, stiffness and possible bruising. Grade three sprains can take 8 to 12 weeks to heal. This is a complete tear of the ligament. With grade three sprains, there is a lot of instability within the joint, severe pain when the injury occurs and no pain after injury, severe swelling and excessive bruising. A Dr. Holman Chan, MD, Foot & Ankle Surgery, answered on behalf of Sunrise Hospital & Medical Center. How long it takes to recover from a sprained ankle can be from one week to one year, says Holman Chan, MD, an orthopedic surgeon at Sunrise Hospital.
Most grade 2 sprains take four to six weeks to heal. A grade 3 sprain is the most serious injury with the longest healing/recovery time. A sprain of this severity can easily take 8 to 12 weeks or even longer to heal completely. Physicians usually immobilize the joint and prescribe physical therapy, just as with a grade 2 sprain. However, the immobilization period is longer, as is the physical-therapy program