Digestive Health. Subscribe to our Digestive Health e-newsletter to stay up to date on digestive health topics. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a chronic digestive disease. GERD occurs when stomach acid or, occasionally, stomach content, flows back into your food pipe (esophagus). The backwash (reflux) irritates the lining of your esophagus and causes GERD. Both acid reflux and heartburn are common digestive conditions that many people experience from time to time. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which food and acids in the stomach move back up into the esophagus. This is called reflux. Stomach acid from reflux can irritate the esophagus and cause heartburn, indigestion, and trouble swallowing. GERD is an abbreviation for gastroesophageal reflux disease, a condition that refers to damage to the lining of the lower esophagus caused as a result of frequent or prolonged exposure to stomach acid.
Common symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease are heartburn and/or acid regurgitation. Heartburn is a burning sensation felt behind the breast bone that occurs when stomach contents irritate the normal lining of the esophagus. Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) occurs when there is an imbalance between the normal defense mechanisms of the esophagus and offensive factors such as acid and other digestive juices and enzymes in the stomach.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD, is a condition which develops when acid from your stomach backs up into your esophagus on a regular basis, causing heartburn and other uncomfortable symptoms. GERD is an abbreviation for gastroesophageal reflux disease, a condition that refers to damage to the lining of the lower esophagus caused as a result of frequent or prolonged exposure to stomach acid.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD), gastric reflux disease, acid reflux disease, or reflux (in babies and young children) is a chronic symptom of mucosal damage caused by stomach acid coming up from the stomach into the esophagus. 
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which the stomach contents (food or liquid) leak backwards from the stomach into the esophagus (the tube from the mouth to the stomach). This action can irritate the esophagus, causing heartburn and other symptoms. When you eat, food passes from the throat to the stomach through the esophagus (also called the food pipe or swallowing tube). Once food is in the stomach, a ring of muscle fibers prevents food from moving backward into the esophagus.
A. A. Gastroesophageal reflux disease, or GERD, is a digestive disorder that affects the lower esophageal sphincter (LES), the ring of muscle between the esophagus and stomach. Many people, including pregnant women, suffer from heartburn or acid indigestion caused by GERD
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common digestive disorder with symptoms of heartburn in which stomach contents regurgitate (reflux) into the esophagus often causing inflammation and damage to the esophagus and occasionally to the lungs and vocal cords. GERD is an abbreviation for gastroesophageal reflux disease, a condition that refers to damage to the lining of the lower esophagus caused as a result of frequent or prolonged exposure to stomach acid.
Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition in which reflux of gastric contents into the esophagus produces frequent or severe symptoms that negatively affect the individual's quality of life or result in damage to esophagus, pharynx, or the respiratory tract. GERD is an abbreviation for gastroesophageal reflux disease, a condition that refers to damage to the lining of the lower esophagus caused as a result of frequent or prolonged exposure to stomach acid.