Climate change is projected to cause significant alterations to aquatic biogeochemical processes, (including carbon dynamics), aquatic food web structure, dynamics and biodiversity, primary and secondary production; and, affect the range, distribution and habitat quality/quantity of aquatic mammals and waterfowl. Consequently, the status of aquatic ecosystems as carbon sinks or sources is very likely to change. Climate change will also very likely affect the biodiversity of freshwater ecosystems across most of the Arctic. The magnitude, extent, and duration of the impacts and responses will be system-and location-dependent.
Sub-lethal temperature effects are also related to metabolic inefficiencies, susceptibility to disease and toxic effects of pollutants, behavioural patterns, intra-and inter-specific competition, predator-prey relationships, community composition and parasite-host relationships. Temperature reductions to stream environments in winter may result from the loss of insulation of the forest canopy under clear-cut conditions in combination with increased radiant cooling; accelerated freezing may lead to anchor ice formation and minimize interstitial habitat for juvenile fish (Hicks et al.
Temperature. Temperature directly affects the activity of the soil biota by determining the rate of physiological activity such as enzyme activity and indirectly by affecting physico-chemical properties such as diffusion & solubility of nutrients, mineral weathering and evaporation rates and so on. Soil moisture. Soil moisture affects the soil biota in two ways. Biologically water is essential for life and for enzyme activity and metabolism and, is a solvent for biological nutrients and other chemicals. Physically, soil moisture affects soil temperature (water is good conductor of heat) and soil aeration.
A comprehensive review of the biological effects of water temperature on marine and brackish water organisms has been summarized in the CCME-Canadian Water Quality Guidelines for the Protection of Aquatic Life, Temperature (CCME; 1999). Temperature reductions to stream environments in winter may result from the loss of insulation of the forest canopy under clear-cut conditions in combination with increased radiant cooling; accelerated freezing may lead to anchor ice formation and minimize interstitial habitat for juvenile fish (Hicks et al.
The water’s temperature affects the dissolved oxygen capacity of the water. The ratio of the dissolved oxygen content to the potential capacity of the water gives the percent of saturation, which is an indicator of water quality. Since temperature fluctuates during each day and according to the seasons of the year, dissolved oxygen levels also fluctuate accordingly (Gada 2010).
Temperature. Temperature is a measure of the average energy (kinetic) of water molecules. It is measured on a linear scale of degrees Celsius or degrees Fahrenheit. It is one of the most important water quality parameters. Temperature affects water chemistry and the functions of aquatic organisms. Salts and other substances affect the quality of water used for irrigation or drinking. They also have a critical influence on aquatic biota, and every kind of organism has a typical salinity range that it can tolerate. Moreover, the ionic composition of the water can be critical.
3.0 Effects of temperature on aquatic biota. Temperature has long been recognized as an important environmental factor in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems in regard to its pivotal role over biological activity (development, growth and reproduction). Temperature reductions to stream environments in winter may result from the loss of insulation of the forest canopy under clear-cut conditions in combination with increased radiant cooling; accelerated freezing may lead to anchor ice formation and minimize interstitial habitat for juvenile fish (Hicks et al.
The variation of abiotic factors in both the beach and the salt pond greatly affect the biota in those areas. At the beach there was a rocky landscape that rounded the water, while at the salt pond, there was more of a wet grassy area allowing different life forms or biota to thrive in each. Multiple physical abiotic data such as temperature, salinity, and dissolved oxygen allowed for different animals to prosper in both the beach and the salt pond. For example, the temperature of the beach water was 20 oC while the salt pond temperate was 17.3 oC.
Dissolved oxygen may play a large role in the survival of biota in temperate lakes and reservoirs during the summer months, due to a phenomenon called stratification. Seasonal stratification occurs as a result of water's temperature-dependent density. As water temperatures increase, the density decreases. 