The most common cause of hip pain is osteoarthritis (OA). Other causes of hip pain include rheumatoid arthritis, osteoporosis, osteonecrosis (death of bone caused by insufficient blood supply), injury, infection, and bone tumors. 
A dislocated left hip can cause pain in the upper left hip area. According to the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons, a dislocated hip occurs when the head of the femur of thigh bone slips from or is forced out of the hip joint or socket. Causes of Pain in the Upper Left Hip. Numerous conditions can cause pain in the upper left hip. Photo Credit hip xray image by JASON WINTER from Fotolia.com. Numerous conditions can cause pain in the upper left hip. Hip pain may be felt in one or both hips, depending on the cause of the pain and the tissues involved.
Hip pain is a common complaint that can be caused by a wide variety of problems. The precise location of your hip pain can provide valuable clues about the underlying cause. Problems within the hip joint itself tend to result in pain on the inside of your hip or your groin. Hip pain on the outside of your hip, upper thigh or outer buttock is usually caused by problems with muscles, ligaments, tendons and other soft tissues that surround your hip joint. Hip pain can sometimes be caused by diseases and conditions in other areas of your body, such as your lower back or your knees. This type of pain is called referred pain. Most hip pain can be controlled with self-care at home. 1  Causes
Hip pain can be caused by a number of injuries or conditions. The most common cause of acute hip pain is inflamed tendons, often caused by over-exercising. This condition can be very painful, but usually heals within a few days. The most common cause of long-term hip pain is arthritis, or joint swelling. Arthritis can cause pain, stiff and tender joints, and difficulty walking. There are a number of other, less common conditions that can cause hip pain, too. These include snapping hip syndrome and osteonecrosis. Snapping hip syndrome (most commonly found in dancers or athletes) is characterized by a snapping sound or feeling in the hip.
Pain in the hip can result from a number of factors. Abnormalities of the skin, nerves, bones, joints, blood vessels, and soft tissues of the hip can all result in pain. Sometimes diseases that affect other joints in the body, such as the inflammation resulting from arthritis, can be the cause of pain in the hip. Trauma or injury, including bone fracture, is also a cause of hip pain
3. In reproductive age women, pain above left hip can be caused by a condition of the ovaries. For example, a cyst on the left ovary could cause pain that irradiates towards the hip and stomach. In such a condition, go directly to the emergency room. Ovary Problems. In reproductive age women, pain above left hip can be caused by a condition of the ovaries. For example, a cyst on the left ovary could cause pain that irradiates towards the hip and stomach.
Hip bursitis can cause pain in the upper left hip region. Bursitis is a painful swelling and inflammation of a bursa--a fluid-filled sac located between ligament or tendons and bone that help reduce friction between these structures during movement. Causes of Pain in the Upper Left Hip. Numerous conditions can cause pain in the upper left hip. Photo Credit hip xray image by JASON WINTER from Fotolia.com. Numerous conditions can cause pain in the upper left hip. Hip pain may be felt in one or both hips, depending on the cause of the pain and the tissues involved.