Hypoxia (also known as hypoxiation or anoxemia) is a condition in which the body or a region of the body is deprived of adequate oxygen supply. Hypoxia may be classified as either generalized, affecting the whole body, or local, affecting a region of the body. Hypoxia differs from hypoxemia in that hypoxia refers to a state in which oxygen supply is insufficient, whereas hypoxemia refers specifically to states that have low arterial oxygen supply. Hypoxia in which there is complete deprivation of oxygen supply is referred to as anoxia
Hypoxia, by definition, is the lack of sufficient oxygen in the blood, tissues, and/or cells to maintain normal physiological function. Many different factors can cause this state of oxygen deficiency. 
Hypoxia is defined as a lack of oxygen in the body tissues. This can be caused either by a shortage of oxygen in the air being breathed or by a number of physiological/pathological issues affecting blood circulation or the quantity of oxygen carried by haemoglobin in the blood. 
anemic hypoxia hypoxia due to reduction of the oxygen-carrying capacity of the blood as a result of a decrease in the total hemoglobin or an alteration of the hemoglobin constituents. circulatory hypoxia stagnant hypoxia. histotoxic hypoxia that due to impaired utilization of oxygen by tissues, as in cyanide poisoning. Hypoxia, or altitude sickness, reduces the amount of oxygen in the brain causing such symptoms as dizziness, shortness of breath, and mental confusion.
Hypobaric Hypoxia. Hypobaric hypoxia is a condition where the body is deprived of a sufficient supply of oxygen from the air to supply for body tissues whether in quantity or molecular concentration. Hypoxic hypoxia affects the body’s ability to transfer oxygen from the lungs to the bloodstream. Oxygen is the main component required to maintain our body functions because it is involved in the oxidation of complex chemical food-stuff to produce energy for our other biological processes that happen inside our body. Hypoxic hypoxia therefore does not mean that erythrocytes are not enough to carry oxygen around from the alveoli of the lungs to the body tissues but simply the oxygen molecule that is to be carried is insufficient. This condition is particularly more likely to happen when a person ascends to a higher altitude.
Although hypoxia is often a pathological condition, variations in arterial oxygen concentrations can be part of the normal physiology, for example, during hypoventilation training or strenuous physical exercise. Hypoxia differs from hypoxemia in that hypoxia refers to a state in which oxygen supply is insufficient, whereas hypoxemia refers specifically to states that have low arterial oxygen supply. Hypoxia in which there is complete deprivation of oxygen supply is referred to as anoxia
How hypoxia affects the human body. Dr. Corey Hebert joins to discuss the signs and symptoms associated with hypoxia, which is being cited by NORAD as a possible factor in the crash of a small plane off the Jamaican coast on Friday. ... more Duration: {{video.duration.momentjs}}. Up next in: Health on msnbc. 
Back. Hyperbaric Oxygenation reduces hypoxia in the body: Hypoxia is not enough oxygen circulating in the body for a variety of reasons. Hypoperfusion, or a poor or decreased blood flow into brain tissues leads to hypoxia in the brain. Hypoxia triggers electrical failure (ion activity) in brain cells.
Hypoxemia (low oxygen in your blood) can cause hypoxia (low oxygen in your tissues) when your blood doesn't carry enough oxygen to your tissues to meet your body's needs. The word hypoxia is sometimes used to describe both problems. 