Jeep is a brand of American automobiles that is a division of FCA US LLC (formerly Chrysler Group, LLC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles. Chrysler bought out AMC in 1987, shortly after the Jeep CJ-7 was replaced with the AMC-designed Jeep Wrangler or YJ. Chrysler merged with Daimler-Benz in 1998 to form DaimlerChrysler. DaimlerChrysler eventually sold most of their interest in Chrysler to a private equity company in 2007.
Subaru: Owned by Fuji Heavy Industries with Toyota a minority partner. Tesla: Toyota is a minority partner. Partnership with Daimler AG. Toyota Motor Company owns: Lexus, Scion, Daihatsu and Hino Motors, with a stake in Fuji Industries (Subaru's parent company) and Isuzu. Volkswagen owns: Audi, Bentley, Bugatti, Lamborghini, Porsche, and overseas-brands SEAT and Skoda
In the early days, this plucky Italian automaker also made railroad engines, tractors, and airplane engines. Fiat now owns Alfa Romeo, Ferrari, Lancia, Maserati, and all the Chrysler brands, including Dodge, Jeep, Ram, and SRT. Fiat has a parent company called Exor but we won’t go into that. GM. General Motors, along with Fiat-owned Chrysler, was one of those companies we bailed out a few years back. The company was started in 1908 by a man in the horse-drawn carriage business, which we have to assume was on the decline. GM owns Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, and GMC.
Best Answer: Yes, and Chrysler is owned by Daimler-Chrysler. The Chrysler Corp bought AMC (formerly American Motors Corp) in 1987, from the Renault Company of France. AMC owned the Jeep Company. (Chrysler continued to sell some AMC-Renault designed cars under the Eagle brand, but discontinued them a few years later.) Daimler-Benz, which owns Mercedes-Benz, bought Chrysler Corp in 1998. The merged company is called Daimler-Chrysler and is headquartered in Stuttgart, Germany. The Chrysler Group (CG), is a subsidiary of Daimler-Benz, and produces Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep vehicles. CG is headquartered in Auburn Hills, Michigan. 
I am not sure of other years or models but a 2011 Jeep Patriot is 95% American built in USA. The remaining 5% is comprised of the transmission alone and that is Mexican. Jee … p is part of the Chrysler Corporation which is partly owned by Fiat, an Italian car company. In 2007 Cerberus Capital Management purchases controlling interest in Chrysler with Daimler-Benz still maintaining a portion. As of 2009 The U.S. government owns 8%, Canada owns 2%, Fiat owns 20%, the United Workers union's retiree health care trust owns 55%.
Andy, Windsor, Colo. Chrysler Group LLC is still a separate company based in Auburn Hills, Mich., not a subsidiary of Italy-based Fiat, and it is still considered a domestic manufacturer — for now. Fiat gained control of Chrysler in 2009 as part of Chrysler's government-managed bankruptcy and currently owns a 58% stake. Fiat CEO Sergio Marchionne also is Chrysler's CEO, so the Italian company is clearly in charge. Though Chrysler is certainly U.S.-centric, it is a global company that sells vehicles in more than 100 countries. In addition to producing vehicles in the U.S., Chrysler also has plants in Canada, Mexico, Egypt and Venezuela.
In 1998, Chrysler merged with German automaker Daimler-Benz AG to form DaimlerChrysler; the merger proved contentious with investors and Chrysler was sold to Cerberus Capital Management and renamed Chrysler LLC in 2007. Chrysler greatly expanded in 1928, when it acquired the Fargo truck company and the Dodge Brothers Company and began selling vehicles under those brands; that same year it also established the Plymouth and DeSoto automobile brands.
Chrysler (/ˈkraɪslər/), officially FCA US LLC, is an American automobile manufacturer headquartered in Auburn Hills, Michigan and owned by holding company Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, headquartered in London, U.K. Chrysler is one of the . Big Three  American automobile manufacturers. Chrysler greatly expanded in 1928, when it acquired the Fargo truck company and the Dodge Brothers Company and began selling vehicles under those brands; that same year it also established the Plymouth and DeSoto automobile brands.
In 1998 Daimler-Benz merged with Chrysler. In 2007 Cerberus Capital Management purchases controlling interest in Chrysler with Daimler-Benz still maintaining a portion. As of 2009 The U.S. government owns 8%, Canada owns 2%, Fiat owns 20%, the United Workers union's retiree health care trust owns 55%.
In June of 2009, as reported by the Los Angeles Times, finalized its purchase of controlling interest of the Chrysler corporation, the parent company of Jeep. In 1987 Chrysl … er Corporation acquired American Motors Corp. for 800 million who owned and produced at that time. In 2007 Cerberus Capital Management purchases controlling interest in Chrysler with Daimler-Benz still maintaining a portion. As of 2009 The U.S. government owns 8%, Canada owns 2%, Fiat owns 20%, the United Workers union's retiree health care trust owns 55%.