Calculating Amortization. If the capitalized cost of a trademark is $20,000, that amount is divided by 15 and the resulting deduction for each year would be $1,333. The 15-year amortization period begins the month that the trademark was acquired or the month it was actively used to produce income, whichever is earlier. When a trademark is acquired from another party, the total cost of the acquisition is capitalized. The IRC permits a trademark's capital costs to be amortized over a 15-year period, which means the taxpayer can deduct a portion of these costs in each year of the amortization period. This deduction reduces the trademark owner's income subject to taxation
Step 2. Divide the patent's total cost by the amortization period from Step 1 to determine the annual amortization expense. To continue the previous example, if the patent cost $25,000 and had an amortization period of 10 years, the annual expense would be $2,500. Related Reading: How to Nullify a Patent. Step 3
The result is the annual amortization expense. To amortize the trademark, decrease the trademark's asset value by the annual amortization expense. So if you have a new trademark you are only going to keep for one term, and it is worth $1000, the value of the asset would decrease $100 every year over 10 years. Acquired Trademarks. For trademarks acquired through the purchase of a product-line or business, the intangible asset is recorded at its fair value. Fair value is how much something would cost if someone sold the asset to an unrelated party, and neither party was under any compulsion to enter into the transaction.
Under Section 197, the costs incurred in renewing a trademark may be amortized as an acquisition over the allowed amortization period. If the capitalized cost of a trademark is $20,000, that amount is divided by 15 and the resulting deduction for each year would be $1,333. When a trademark is acquired from another party, the total cost of the acquisition is capitalized. The IRC permits a trademark's capital costs to be amortized over a 15-year period, which means the taxpayer can deduct a portion of these costs in each year of the amortization period. This deduction reduces the trademark owner's income subject to taxation
Reader Comments (2). QUESTION related to the topic: Given that your patent costs $70,000 with a legal life of 10 years, and amortization expense of $7,000/year. An additional cost of $45,000 is incurred for legal costs in defending your patent. Do you include the additional cost of $45,000 to the patent cost and re-compute for the amortization expense?
Trademark Amortization Rules. Rules for amortizing a trademark depend on the trademark's expected life. Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. A trademark is a type of intangible, or nonphysical, asset that gives a business the exclusive right to use a name, phrase or logo. Amortization is the process of allocating, or spreading out, the cost of an intangible asset over its useful life. The annual amortization expense is $15,000, or $60,000 divided by four. To amortize the trademark, debit the amortization expense account and credit the trademark account annually by $15,000.
To qualify as a long-term asset for amortization, the trademark must last at least 12 months. Amortize the trademark over 180 months to determine your allowable tax deduction. You must complete Form 4562 if you have any trademark amortization deductions to report. Divide the total capitalized cost by the economic life of the trademark to determine the monthly amortization amount. Amortization is shown on the company's general ledger as an expense. To set up the asset account in your general ledger, debit the total cost of the trademark.
Generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, require a business to amortize only intangible assets with definite lives. Because a trademark can be renewed every 10 years with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office indefinitely, a business typically does not amortize a trademark in its accounting records. The annual amortization expense is $15,000, or $60,000 divided by four. To amortize the trademark, debit the amortization expense account and credit the trademark account annually by $15,000.