Sedimentary Rocks. Sedimentary rocks are formed from sediment, which is solid, loose pieces of rocks (in the form of sand, silt, clay, and gravel), or the remains of living things found at the surface of the Earth. Sediment is material that has been eroded and deposited by wind, running water, waves, and ice
MINERALS. CRYSTALS. GEMSTONES. FIND OUT MORE. Earth’s crust is made of rock, and rock is made of natural substances called MINERALS. There are three main types of rock—sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic rock. Each type is produced in different ways. The oldest rocks on Earth were formed about 3.8 billion years ago. 
Minerals, quite simply, are the building blocks for making rocks, and a rock is made up of one or more minerals. When you look at a rock and see different colors, those colors are minerals that make up that specific rock. Igneous rocks form when magma or lava cools and hardens into a rock. Magma and lava are rocks that are so hot they move like a liquid. Magma is molten rock that is underground; lava is molten rock that is above the ground – and that is the only difference between them. A common igneous rock is granite
There are three different types of rocks based on the way they form, igneous, sedimentary and metamorphic. When magma cools and solidifies it forms igneous rock. Examples of igneous rocks include granite, basalt, gabbro, obsidian and pumice. More igneous rock facts. 
Many natural phenomena occur in cycles. The rock cycle explains the relationship between the three major groupings of rocks. 1  Igneous rocks are formed deep within the Earth. 2  They come up to the surface underground (in the form called magma) or break out of the ground (in the form called lava). 
Diffen › Science › Geology. A mineral is a naturally-occurring substance formed through geological processes that has a characteristic chemical composition, a highly ordered atomic structure and specific physical properties. A rock is a naturally occurring aggregate of minerals and/or mineraloids. Rocks do not have a definite chemical composition. 
There are also articles on physical rock formations, also known as strata, and the formal naming of geologic formations. The three main ways rocks are formed 1  : Sedimentary rocks are formed through the gradual accumulation of sediments: for example, sand on a beach or mud on a river bed. 1 Sedimentary rocks are formed through the gradual accumulation of sediments: for example, sand on a beach or mud on a river bed. 2  As the sediments are buried they get compacted as more and more material is deposited on top. 3  Eventually the sediments will become so dense that they would essentially form a rock
Teaching and Learning Focus. It is important that your students begin to understand that rocks are made of minerals. Different rocks have different characteristics because of their minerals, the ways in which the rocks were formed, and the processes that acted on the rocks since they were formed. Sedimentary rocks are formed from sediment, which is solid, loose pieces of rocks (in the form of sand, silt, clay, and gravel), or the remains of living things found at the surface of the Earth.