FIVE-SPICE POWDER, a blend of spices used in Oriental cookery, is increasingly available in natural-food stores as well as in spice shops and Oriental groceries. The same five spices are not always used, but some of the most common components are anise, fennel, cloves, black pepper, cinnamon, and ginger. The overall effect is sweet and slightly spicy, with a licorice undertone, since either anise or fennel is always present. CURRY POWDER is a blend of spices used in Indian cuisine with some constant ingredients and some that vary. Indian specialty-food stores and spice shops are good places to get fresh, aromatic curry blends with a choice of varying degrees of hotness. The supermarket variety often tastes and smells rather flat.
Mexican Spices: Garlic. Garlic is one of the most common Mexican spices. Garlic can be found in fresh, jarred, or powder form. It is often incorporated into salsa and taco seasoning. A Mexican spice that is commonly used in conjunction with garlic is onion powder. Mexican Spices: Oregano. Oregano is another commonly used Mexican spice. There are many different types of oregano, such as Mexican oregano and Mediterranean oregano. Adding oregano to your Mexican dishes will create a fresh, earthy taste.
Spices and Seasonings. Japanese cuisine uses the following five basic flavours; salt, sugar, vinegar, soya sauce and miso. However, as with any other cuisine there is also a range of herbs, spices and other ingredients used to enhance the flavours present in the dish. Root ginger is used ground in Japanese cuisine and mixed with soya to marinate pork prior to sauteing sautéing, it as the flavours of pork and ginger complement one another. Well it is also served on top of a pyramid of (Daikon japanese white) radish to put in the tempura dipping. sauce
Japanese food is mostly rice based, and can be spicy but not overly so, with lots of fresh vegetables, herbs and spices being the principal ingredients. There a number of basic ingredients that you will need to have on hand when you set off to cook a typical Japanese meal. Here is a list of the top five. Japanese Rice. Add to that list lots of fresh vegetables, particularly peppers as well as raw fish especially salmon as well as edible seaweed known as “Nori” which is used to bind the “maki-zushi” variety of Sushi. Cooking Japanese food can be an invigorating challenge for any competent cook.
This is a list of culinary herbs and spices. Specifically these are food or drink additives of mostly botanical origin used in nutritionally insignificant quantities for flavoring or coloring. 
Mirin is is an essential condiment used in Japanese cuisine, consisting of around 50% sugar. It is a kind of rice wine similar to Sake, saké but with a lower alcohol. Content it is used to sweeten (dishes but less than), sugar reduce the smell of certain fish dishes and give vegetables and other food a shiny. appearance Be that olive oil or salt and pepper for French cooking, or spices for Indian cooking, Japanese cooking also requires a number of ingredients at hand. These are the 10 essential ingredients for Japanese cooking. I use at least one of them in every Japanese dish I create.
Beni-shouga is red, salt-pickled ginger used to add flavour to okonomiyaki (a Japanese style tortilla), itame-gohan (fried rice mixed with other ingredients) and yakisoba (stir-fried noodles). The red colour is derived from red perilla or shiso. Root ginger is used ground in Japanese cuisine and mixed with soya to marinate pork prior to sauteing sautéing, it as the flavours of pork and ginger complement one another. Well it is also served on top of a pyramid of (Daikon japanese white) radish to put in the tempura dipping. sauce
About Japanese Spices. Japan is blessed with an abundance of fragrant spices, both native and from neighboring cultures, all of which provide a unique accent to the country’s complex food culture and which are found in homes throughout the land.
Together with the typical root ginger which originates in China and is used in many different cuisines, Japanese cuisine uses this young ginger shoot, which looks similar to a spring onion with a white bulb graduating to green leaves. It can be eaten raw, or pickled in vinegar, the white bulb turning pink when pickled. Root ginger is used ground in Japanese cuisine and mixed with soya to marinate pork prior to sauteing sautéing, it as the flavours of pork and ginger complement one another. Well it is also served on top of a pyramid of (Daikon japanese white) radish to put in the tempura dipping. sauce