One of the more serious results of vagus nerve damage can be cardiovascular damage affecting the function of the heart and circulatory system. Irregular heartbeat, a condition known as arrhythmia, is the most common of these symptoms. Arrhythmia can cause chest pain, dizziness, and shortness of breath.
Loss of hearing can be a symptom of vagus nerve damage. Damage to the vagus nerve may lead to an increased risk of choking on food. Vagus nerve damage can cause an irregular heartbeat in some cases. A diagram showing the vagus nerve.
Diabetes can cause neuropathy, or nerve damage, to a number of different areas of the body. A prolonged increase in blood sugar associated with diabetes can alter nerve chemistry, and damage the blood vessels that support the nerves.
Diabetes is one of the most common causes of damage to the vagus nerve. Patients who have had this disease for a long time can experience damage to nerves throughout the body, often because of improper blood flow. Without enough blood, the vagus nerve can become permanently impaired.
The vagus nerve originates in the brain stem and sends signals back and forth between the brain and internal organs. Chronic diseases such as diabetes can cause vagus nerve damage, as can trauma to the nerve. Smoking and drinking may exacerbate the condition. Vagus nerve damage can cause complications such as trouble swallowing or digestive problems.
Causes. Diabetes is a common cause of damage to the vagus nerve. The mechanism by which diabetes damages nerves is not fully understood. Any nerve in the body can be affected by diabetes. Another cause of vagus nerve damage is trauma to the vagus nerve. This can be caused by trauma to the body, such as a car accident, that puts pressure on part of the vagus nerve. Surgery also can put pressure on the vagus nerve and cause damage.
In cases where diabetes has damaged the vagus nerve, it can cause gastroparesis, a condition wherein the muscles of the stomach and intestine are not able to efficiently move food through the gastrointestinal system.