Outsourcing refers to an organization contracting work out to a 3rd party, while offshoring refers to getting work done in a different country, usually to leverage cost advantages. Offshoring provides many of the same benefits as outsourcing, including: 1  Cost savings: Companies usually offshore manufacturing or services to developing countries where wages are low, thus resulting in cost savings. 2  These savings are passed on to the customers, shareholders and managers of these companies.
Offshore outsourcing is the practice of hiring an external organization to perform some business functions ( Outsourcing ) in a country other than the one where the products or services are actually developed or manufactured ( Offshore ). 
DEFINITION of 'Offshore'. 1. Located or based outside of one's national boundaries. The term offshore is used to describe foreign banks, corporations, investments and deposits. A company may legitimately move offshore for the purpose of tax avoidance or to enjoy relaxed regulations. Offshore financial institutions can also be used for illicit purposes such as money laundering and tax evasion. 2
The terms outsourcing and offshoring are often used almost synonymously in much of the popular literature today. However, there is a technical difference. When a company outsources, it buys from a third party a part or service it used to produce itself. 
As a means to hopefully stave off bankruptcy, the board had decided that offshoring jobs to another country would be the only way to save the company. 5 people found this helpful. Some companies will use offshoring when they can find a better deal in another country to lower their overhead costs. The moving of various operations of a company to another country for reasons such as lower labor costs or more favorable economic conditions in that other country.
Offshoring is a type of outsourcing. Offshoring simply means having the outsourced business functions done in another country. Frequently, work is offshored in order to reduce labor expenses. Other times, the reasons for offshoring are strategic — to enter new markets, to tap talent currently unavailable domestically or to overcome regulations that prevent specific activities domestically. India has emerged as the dominant player in offshoring, particularly in software work. Three factors came into play to make this possible. First, in the 1970s the Indian government put in place regulations that mandated that all foreign ventures have Indian majority ownership
Offshoring is defined as the movement of a business process done at a company in one country to the same or another company in another, different country. Almost always work is moved because of a lower cost of operations in the new location. Offshoring can be seen in the context of either production offshoring or services offshoring. After its accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, the People's Republic of China emerged as a prominent destination for production offshoring
Offshoring. Offshoring is a form of outsourcing. Offshoring is when a company moves business processes or services to a country other than its home country or primary marketplace. This is usually done in an effort to cut costs. Typically the new country has lower labor costs.
Offshoring is the relocation of a business process from one country to another—typically an operational process, such as manufacturing, or supporting processes, such as accounting. Typically this refers to a company business, although state governments may also employ offshoring. Offshoring can be seen in the context of either production offshoring or services offshoring. After its accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, the People's Republic of China emerged as a prominent destination for production