Magdalena has its origins in the Hebrew language. It is used largely in Czech, Dutch, English, German, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Scandinavian, Slavic, and Spanish. The first name is derived from the name Mary Magdalene, borne in the Bible by the woman who was cured of evil spirits and infirmities. Her name Magdalene means 'of Magdala', referring to the village on the western shore of the Sea of Galilee, north of Tiberias; the place name is itself from the Hebrew word migdal. Magdalena is unusual as a baby girl name. Its usage peaked in 2005 with 0.016% of baby girls being named Magdalena. It had a ranking of #813 then. The baby name has substantially dropped in popularity since then, and is used only on a very modest scale today.
Today Magdalena is quite cosmopolitan, found on the charts of Austria, Germany, Poland, Chile, Croatia, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. Maggie, Magda, Alena and Lena are all possible nicknames. Magdalene means quite simply “of Magdala”. Mary Magdalene is one of the more well-known female characters in the New Testament, and so called Magdalene because she was from Magdala, a village on the Sea of Galilee (Magdala comes from a Hebrew word meaning “tower”).
How popular is Magdalena? Magdalena is a very prominent first name for females (#703 out of 4276, Top 16%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#74164 out of 150436, Top 49%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Magdalena for girls. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Magdalena and related names. Popular varying forms of Magdalena (#976 in 2014) listed in the Top 1000 are Alena (#617 in 2014) , Madeline (#89) , Magdalen and Magdalene. Variants like Magdalina are seldom used.
Magdalena is a Spanish, Czech form of the name Magdalene. The name Magdalene derives from a character in the New Testament who came from the town of Magdala. Magdala was a village on the Galilee that was located a few miles north of Tiberias and its name means high tower in Hebrew.
Magdalena is basically the Hispanic-American version of Madeline. It’s a name that celebrates the Biblical character of Mary Magdalene. Because Magdalena has mainly been restricted to Spanish, German, Slavic and/or Scandinavian-Americans, it has never achieved enormous success in the United States. Magdalene means quite simply “of Magdala”. Mary Magdalene is one of the more well-known female characters in the New Testament, and so called Magdalene because she was from Magdala, a village on the Sea of Galilee (Magdala comes from a Hebrew word meaning “tower”).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Magdalena is the original version of the name Magdalene (the surname of Mary Magdalene), and is used in Czech, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Spanish, Croatian, Macedonian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Polish, Slovak, Georgian, Slovene among other languages. Magdalena may also refer to: 1 Magdalena was the original name of the island of Tobago, derived from the name of one of Christopher Columbus’ ships, and the name pays homage to the island’s rich history, tradition, and people.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Magdalena. Magdalena is the German, Spanish, Slavic and Nordic version of Magdalene, the Biblical Latin form of Mary Magdalene. Magdalene means quite simply “of Magdala”. Mary Magdalene is one of the more well-known female characters in the New Testament, and so called Magdalene because she was from Magdala, a village on the Sea of Galilee (Magdala comes from a Hebrew word meaning “tower”).
Meaning of Magdalena. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Magdalena means-woman from magdala. Other origins for the name Magdalena include-Spanish, Hebrew.The name Magdalena is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-woman from magdala. Origin-Spain.
Magdalena /mag-dale-na/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced mag-da-LEE-nah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Magdalena is woman from Magdala. Biblical: Mary Magdalene came from the Magdala area near the sea of Galilee. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of Magdalena and related names. Popular varying forms of Magdalena (#976 in 2014) listed in the Top 1000 are Alena (#617 in 2014) , Madeline (#89) , Magdalen and Magdalene. Variants like Magdalina are seldom used.