Software patches can be found through the software developer's website. If you are trying to find a patch for a program, visit our third-party contact page for a list of all computer related companies and their Internet addresses.
You are here: Dictionary P-Definitions. A patch is a piece of software code that can be applied after the software program has been installed to correct an issue with that program. Most software programs may have several patches after their initial release and usually update the version of the program when successfully installed.
A patch is a piece of software designed to update a computer program or its supporting data, to fix or improve it. This includes fixing security vulnerabilities and other bugs, with such patches usually called bugfixes or bug fixes, and improving the usability or performance.
1. An update is a software file that contains fixes for problems found by other users or the software developer. Installing an update fixes the code and prevents the problems from happening on your computer.
patch-Computer Definition. A quick, unscheduled fix for a bug, security hole, or other deficiency or defect in a program. Patches are incorporated into subsequent program upgrades. See also bug, bug fix, update, and upgrade. A modification (noun) of software or to modify (verb) software.
Patch. A patch is a piece of software code that can be applied after the software program has been installed to correct an issue with that program. Most software programs may have several patches after their initial release and usually update the version of the program when successfully installed.
A patch, sometimes just called a fix, is a small piece of software that's used to correct a problem, sometimes called a bug, with a software program or even an operating system. A collection of usually already-released patches is often called a service pack.
security patch-Computer Definition. A fix to a program that eliminates a vulnerability exploited by malicious hackers. See vulnerability and patch. Computer Desktop Encyclopedia THIS DEFINITION IS FOR PERSONAL USE ONLY All other reproduction is strictly prohibited without permission from the publisher.