Popular Arts in Peru. Peru boasts one of the largest varieties of arts and crafts on Earth, as can be seen from the growing network of exporters who each year exhibit the skill of Peruvian craftsmen in Europe, Asia and North America. The excellence of Peruvian artisans can be seen in the harmony of the geometric designs in weavings, the minute portraits of peasant farming life on the carved gourds called mates burilados, the cultural mestizaje or blend in the colorful retablo boxed scenes.
Woman of puno that are decendents of the Incas make our products. peru peru handicraft offert peru art, crafts textiles clothing in peru and clothing of alpaca to the world shop in our store. The versatility of the materials, makes the Peru art truly unique. The peruvian art combined with the skill of the craftsmen, years of experience and innovative techniques, creates the finest crafts in the world. Peru handicraft is created to offer to the world the beauty of Peru craft. We offer peru handicraft, peru art, peruvian art, peru crafts, peru craft, peru artists, peru handicrafts, peru handcrafts. 
Peruvian art has its origin in the Andean civilizations. These civilizations rose in the territory of modern Peru before the arrival of the Spanish. The first center of art established by the Spanish was the Cuzco School that taught Quechua artists European painting styles. Diego Quispe Tito (1611-1681) was one of the first members of the Cuzco school and Marcos Zapata (1710-1773) was one of the last.
Peru's earliest artwork came from the Cupisnique culture, which was concentrated on the Pacific coast, and the Chavin chavín, culture which was largely north Of lima between The andean mountain ranges of The Cordillera negra and The Cordillera. blanca The first center of art established by the Spanish was the Cuzco School that taught Quechua artists European painting styles. Diego Quispe Tito (1611-1681) was one of the first members of the Cuzco school and Marcos Zapata (1710-1773) was one of the last.
A group of people in the north called the Moche developed the use of the press mold. A press mold is a carved-out form in which wet clay was pressed. As the clay dried, it pulled away from the mold and was removed. The Moche used hard ceramic -- harder than clay -- for their press molds. The excellence of Peruvian artisans can be seen in the harmony of the geometric designs in weavings, the minute portraits of peasant farming life on the carved gourds called mates burilados, the cultural mestizaje or blend in the colorful retablo boxed scenes.
The diversity, color, creativity and multiple functions of Peru's folk art has made it a fundamental activity not just for Peru's cultural identity, but also as a way of life for thousands of families and even entire communities, such as Sarhua and Quinua in Ayacucho. The excellence of Peruvian artisans can be seen in the harmony of the geometric designs in weavings, the minute portraits of peasant farming life on the carved gourds called mates burilados, the cultural mestizaje or blend in the colorful retablo boxed scenes.
Inca art – Inca Pottery. The best example of pottery produced before the days of the Inca Empire is found in the ceramic produced by the Moche or Mochica culture that thrived from 100 to 700 AD in the northern Peruvian coast. Moche sculptural portrait stirrup spout bottle.
Peruvian music is an amalgamation of sounds and styles drawing on the Peru’s Andean musical roots and Spanish musical influences. Native Peruvian music is dominated by the national instrument, the charango. The charango is a type of mandolin, and was invented in Bolivia by musicians imitating Spanish lutes and guitars. A group of hefty queros, members of what is probably Peru’s purest Quechua community, dress up as pabluchas and set out for the mountaintop, at 6,362 meters (20,867 feet), in search of the Snow Star which is reputedly buried within the mountain.
Gold Tumi made by the pre-Inca Lambayeque Culture in the north of Peru. Inca art was inherited from cultures that predated the Inca Empire by thousands of years. They took what they thought was important and useful from them and perfected it adapting forms of art to their own needs and likes. The best example of pottery produced before the days of the Inca Empire is found in the ceramic produced by the Moche or Mochica culture that thrived from 100 to 700 AD in the northern Peruvian coast. Moche sculptural portrait stirrup spout bottle.
Peruvian culture, like the culture of many American countries, is a mix of native and European art forms. That's because Peru was settled by European explorers in the 16th century who brought with them new art forms. Before the Europeans arrived, Incas ruled the land of Peru. The excellence of Peruvian artisans can be seen in the harmony of the geometric designs in weavings, the minute portraits of peasant farming life on the carved gourds called mates burilados, the cultural mestizaje or blend in the colorful retablo boxed scenes.