The Alaskan Malamute is a large breed of domestic dog (Canis lupus familiaris) originally bred for hauling heavy freight because of their strength and endurance, and later an Alaskan sled dog. They are similar to other arctic breeds, like the Greenland dog, Canadian Eskimo Dog, the Siberian Husky and the Samoyed. The Alaskan Malamute is a heavy dog, with a more formidable nature and structure than the Siberian Husky, which is bred for speed. The Alaskan Malamute is bred for power and endurance, which is its original function and what the standard of the breed requires of Alaskan Malamute breeders.
The Alaskan Malamute is like living with a teenager for its entire life. They are fun and need lots of exercise, so they keep you active. They are a thinking breed and want to help you out in work and fun. When you make them part of your family, they make you part of theirs, and will give there life for you. Alaskan Malamutes have strong, big-boned, wolf-like frames covered in soft double-thick coats. Their wide heads have rounded skulls, large muzzles, triangular ears and black noses. They have almond-shaped eyes with a wolf-like but kind and curious expression.
Alaskan Malamute Dogs. Alaskan Malamutes may look like lone wolves, but they could not be more fun, playful and friendly. They love to goof around, play games and be rowdy (in a pleasant way, of course). Alaskan Malamutes have strong, big-boned, wolf-like frames covered in soft double-thick coats. Their wide heads have rounded skulls, large muzzles, triangular ears and black noses. They have almond-shaped eyes with a wolf-like but kind and curious expression.
It is part of your responsibility as a responsible Malamute owner (or future owner) to explain No and why not. Malamutes share many traits with wolves because they are dogs-and more so because they are a natural breed. A natural breed has not been shaped by man into a specific mold for a specific purpose. The only purpose Malamutes were shaped for is pulling and confidence around man. 
In some accounts, the Alaskan Malamute is described as a descendant of dogs of the Mahlemut (now known as Kuuvangmiut or more commonly Kobuk) group of Inupiat in upper western Alaska. These dogs had a prominent role with their human companions – as a utilitarian dog, working, hunting, and living alongside humans. The Alaskan Malamute is a heavy dog, with a more formidable nature and structure than the Siberian Husky, which is bred for speed. The Alaskan Malamute is bred for power and endurance, which is its original function and what the standard of the breed requires of Alaskan Malamute breeders.
The Alaskan Malamute Club of America was formed in 1935 and the American Kennel Club recognized the breed that same year. During World War II, most of the registered Alaskan Malamutes were loaned out for war duty because there was a great demand for sled dogs. Not surprisingly, Malamutes are sensitive to heat. They're Arctic dogs, not designed by nature to live in hot, humid environments. If your Malamute lives in the Sunbelt, be sure to provide him with plenty of shade, fresh water, and air conditioning during the summer, and avoid exercise in the heat of the day.
The Alaskan Malamute is the largest of the Arctic dogs. This thick, well-built dog is solid with a plumed tail that is held over the back. The head is wide with erect ears. The eyes are of medium size, dark brown small, and almond in shape and are obliquely placed in the skull. Kiana the Alaskan Malamute at 3 years old; she is very large for her gender—86 pounds (39 kg) and 25 inches (63 cm) at the shoulder. Her owner says he could not ask for a better dog and friend.. 1  Find an Alaskan Malamute Breeder. 2  Place an Ad. 3  Rescue an Alaskan Malamute.
Bred to run great distances, Alaskan Malamutes are very active and need lots of exercise. They might not do so well in apartments. Ideally, they should have a big yard with a high fence. Be warned, however: These dogs like to dig. Alaskan Malamutes have strong, big-boned, wolf-like frames covered in soft double-thick coats. Their wide heads have rounded skulls, large muzzles, triangular ears and black noses. They have almond-shaped eyes with a wolf-like but kind and curious expression.
The Alaskan Malamute features a powerful, sturdy body built for stamina and strength. It reigns as one of the oldest dog breed s whose original looks have not been significantly altered. This intelligent canine needs a job and consistent leadership to avoid becoming bored or challenging to handle. Not surprisingly, Malamutes are sensitive to heat. They're Arctic dogs, not designed by nature to live in hot, humid environments. If your Malamute lives in the Sunbelt, be sure to provide him with plenty of shade, fresh water, and air conditioning during the summer, and avoid exercise in the heat of the day.
General Appearance. The Alaskan Malamute, one of the oldest Arctic sled dogs, is a powerful and substantially built dog with a deep chest and strong, well-muscled body. 