The Diamond Dragon can be bred using an Ice Dragon and a Mine Dragon, in either order, at the Breeding Cave / Epic Breeding Island. 1 The Diamond Dragon is the most expensive gemstone dragon. 2  The Diamond Dragon cannot breed with any other dragon, including breeding with another Diamond Dragon. 3  Initially, the Diamond Dragon was available at level 17, but the level availability was changed on October 9, 2013, to level 18
By DoubleDizle on. 15 Comments. In DragonVale for the Android and iOS systems (iPhone and iPad, etc.), the Diamond Dragon is the twelfth and final Gemstone Dragon to be introduced in the game, representing the month of April. Being a Gemstone dragon, it earns gems instead of gold and can not mate at all. Check out my DragonVale Breeding Guide for more dragon breeding combinations, as well as the combinations you’ll need to make the necessary dragons for the Diamond Dragon, and other Gemstone Dragons. Similar Articles to Check Out.
I can't seem to find out how to breed a diamond dragon in Dragonvale. I've tried quite a few combos in the Epic Breeding Island, but none work for me. Google dragonvale sandbox and use that to find all dragon breed combos. You can put in 2 dragons and get the results possible — or viceversa. It is awesome to say the least and I recommend it to anyone who plays it.
Dragonvale: How to Breed the Diamond Dragon. As many dragonvale fans will tell you, breeding the diamond dragon may be the most challenging task you will ever meet in dragonvale. However, do not be discourages as some have been lucky enough to breed the diamond dragon on their first try. Even before we rush into letting you know everything about breeding the diamond dragon, here are some facts about the dragon: 1  The dragon is only available as from level seventeen of the game play. 2  As such, if you are in lower levels, you will not be able to breed this dragon.
The Diamond Dragon has a base breeding time of 30 hours, sells for 1,750,000 gold, and earns 150,000 XP upon successful breeding at level 17. To get a Diamond Dragon, breed an Ice Dragon with a Mine Dragon during the month of April. If you get an incubation time of 30 hours then you should be successful. Check out my DragonVale Breeding Guide for more dragon breeding combinations, as well as the combinations you’ll need to make the necessary dragons for the Diamond Dragon, and other Gemstone Dragons. Similar Articles to Check Out.
1 The fact that the Diamond Dragon is bred using an Ice Dragon and a Mine Dragon may be due to the slang term for diamond jewelry; ice and also that diamonds are found in mines. 2  The Diamond Dragon's description mentions Adam Anteen. 1 The Diamond Dragon is the most expensive gemstone dragon. 2  The Diamond Dragon cannot breed with any other dragon, including breeding with another Diamond Dragon. 3  Initially, the Diamond Dragon was available at level 17, but the level availability was changed on October 9, 2013, to level 18
1 The habitat for this dragon is the dragonvale gemstone habitat. 2  The normal breeding period for the diamond dragon is 30 hours. 3  This time can be shortened to 24 hours. 4  The incubation period is however similar to the normal breeding time. Even before we rush into letting you know everything about breeding the diamond dragon, here are some facts about the dragon: 1  The dragon is only available as from level seventeen of the game play. 2  As such, if you are in lower levels, you will not be able to breed this dragon.
The Diamond Dragon in DragonVale is the April Gemstone dragon in DragonVale. The Diamond Dragon appears each month of April for players to breed their special birthstone dragons in their very own DragonVale park. You can still breed the dragon using your breeding cave but it is most recommended that you use your breeding island for higher chances of getting the Diamond Dragon. Keep in mind that when breeding dragons, the breeding left and right does not matter. The Level of your dragons also
1 The Diamond Dragon cannot breed with any other dragon, including breeding with another Diamond Dragon. 2  Initially, the Diamond Dragon was available at level 17, but the level availability was changed on October 9, 2013, to level 18. 1 The Diamond Dragon is the most expensive gemstone dragon. 2  The Diamond Dragon cannot breed with any other dragon, including breeding with another Diamond Dragon. 3