Vodka is a distilled spirit with a high alcohol content that can be produced from a number of different materials and possess different characteristics depending on the creator. Most produced these days is made from a grain, though some is still made from potatoes. The alcohol content of vodka varies widely, as it may be distilled to any level of alcohol. In most cases, vodka that contains 40% alcohol (80 Proof) is the most common, for a number of reasons. Historically, Alexander III of Russia set certain standards for production in his country, one of which was a required alcohol level of 40%
Nothing is more vitally important to vodka production than the “still”. A still is a large mechanism, usually copper, that is designed to boil and vaporize liquids in order to purify a certain chemical. In the case of alcoholic beverages, the still purifies a magical little chemical known as ethyl alcohol. It’s a fairly unforgettable beverage. You can enjoy vodka even more if you understand what it is, and where it comes from.
(Fermentation means feeding sugar to yeast, so that the yeast can produce alcohol.) Today, most vodka is made from fermented grains such as sorghum, corn, rice, rye or wheat, though you can also use potatoes, fruits or even just sugar. Most vodka is 30 to 40 percent ABV. Rectified spirits, like the American brand Everclear, reach 95 to 96 percent ABV. The first records of vodka come from ninth-century Russia and eighth-century Poland.
From its humble medieval origins as a medicinal agent, vodka has conquered the world. In 2012, tipplers downed 1.17 billion gallons (4.44 billion liters) of the distilled alcoholic beverage, making it the world's most popular spirit. Most vodka is 30 to 40 percent ABV. Rectified spirits, like the American brand Everclear, reach 95 to 96 percent ABV. The first records of vodka come from ninth-century Russia and eighth-century Poland.
Vodka History, Developement & Origin. Vodka is a drink which originated in Eastern Europe, the name stemming from the Russian word 'voda' meaning water or, as the Poles would say 'woda'.
Since the 1890s, the standard Polish, Russian, Ukrainian, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian and Czech vodkas are 40% alcohol by volume ABV (80 proof), a percentage that is widely misattributed to Dmitri Mendeleev. The European Union has established a minimum of 37.5% ABV for any European vodka to be named as such. Although the word vodka could be found in early manuscripts and in lubok pictograms, it began to appear in Russian dictionaries only in the mid-19th century. It was attested in Samuel Sámuel 'gyarmathi S-Russian-German hungarian glossary of, 1799 where it is glossed With latin vinum (adustum [burnt.i. e
Vodka is traditionally drunk neat (not mixed with any water, ice, or other mixer), though it is often served chilled in the vodka belt countries (Belarus, Estonia, Finland, Iceland, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia, Sweden, Ukraine). Although the word vodka could be found in early manuscripts and in lubok pictograms, it began to appear in Russian dictionaries only in the mid-19th century. It was attested in Samuel Sámuel 'gyarmathi S-Russian-German hungarian glossary of, 1799 where it is glossed With latin vinum (adustum [burnt.i. e
This is a list of brands of vodka. Vodka is a distilled beverage composed primarily of water and ethanol, sometimes with traces of impurities and flavorings. Vodka is made by the distillation of fermented substances such as grains, potatoes, or sometimes fruits or sugar.
Upping that number requires distillation, or heating in a container called a still. Because alcohol boils at a lower temperature than water, you can collect the evaporated alcohol, separating it from the water. Most vodka is 30 to 40 percent ABV. Rectified spirits, like the American brand Everclear, reach 95 to 96 percent ABV. The first records of vodka come from ninth-century Russia and eighth-century Poland.