Under Article I, Section 2 of the Constitution, seats in the House of Representatives are apportioned among the states by population, as determined by the census conducted every ten years. Each state, however, is entitled to at least one Representative. Article I, Section 2 of the Constitution sets three qualifications for representatives. Each representative must: (1) be at least twenty-five years old; (2) have been a citizen of the United States for the past seven years; and (3) be (at the time of the election) an inhabitant of the state they represent.
Massachusetts. Massachusetts is a U.S. state with two senators in the United States Senate and nine representatives in the United States House of Representatives. Scroll down for a map of the districts. Representatives. The United States is divided into 435 congressional districts — 9 in Massachusetts — each with a population of about 710,000 individuals. Each district elects a representative to the House for a two-year term. Representatives are also called congressmen/congresswomen.
The House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress (a bicameral legislature). It is frequently referred to as The House. The other house is the Senate. The composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution. Article I, Section 2 of the Constitution sets three qualifications for representatives. Each representative must: (1) be at least twenty-five years old; (2) have been a citizen of the United States for the past seven years; and (3) be (at the time of the election) an inhabitant of the state they represent.
Its modern embodiment, known as the Georgia General Assembly, is one of the largest state legislatures in the nation. The General Assembly consists of two chambers, the House of Representatives and the Senate. Since the General Assembly is the legislative body for the state, the location of its meetings has moved along with each move of the state capital. In its earliest days the legislature met first in Savannah, and subsequently in Augusta, Louisville, and Milledgeville.
The Massachusetts House of Representatives is the lower house of the Massachusetts General Court, the state legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. It is composed of 160 members elected from 12 counties each divided into single-member electoral districts across the Commonwealth. The House of Representatives convenes at the Massachusetts State House in Boston. The Speaker of the House presides over the House of Representatives. The Speaker is elected by the majority party caucus followed by confirmation of the full House through the passage of a House Resolution.
1 Or, go to the Massachusetts legislature's website for an online directory of Massachusetts state senators, www.malegislature.gov/people/senate and Massachusetts state representatives, www.malegislature.gov/people/house. 2  You can also view maps of the Senate and House districts, complete with contact information. Room numbers and telephone numbers for Massachusetts state representatives and state senators. Updated April 2013. 1  Click on the attachement below download a pdf which has all the contact information for both representatives and senators.
State Representative Michael Brady is a candidate for the State Senate in the 2nd Plymouth and Bristol District, which includes Brockton, Halifax, Hanover, Hanson, Plympton and Whitman as well as three precincts in East Bridgewater and two precincts in Easton. 
The Massachusetts Senate is the upper house of the Massachusetts General Court, the bicameral state legislature of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The Senate comprises 40 elected members from 40 single-member senatorial districts in the state. Senators serve two-year terms, without term limits. The Senate convenes in the Massachusetts State House, in Boston. The current session is the 189th General Court, which convened January 7, 2015. It consists of 33 Democrats and 6 Republicans, with one vacancy. The President of the Senate is Stanley Rosenberg of Amherst