[…] there is tangible evidence that GMO crops (and the large amounts of pesticides used to grow them) pose a significant threat to organic agriculture. Proponents of GMOs may contend that contamination of non-GMO crops is a […]. 
Harmful Effects of the Agent. Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) are a broad group of plants, animals, and bacteria that are engineered for a wide variety of applications ranging from agricultural production to scientific research. Another example comes from a study showing that a strain of genetically modified soybean produced lower levels of phytoestrogen compounds, believed to protect against heart disease and cancer, than traditional soybeans (Bakshi, 2003).
There have been many extensive studies showing that GMO crops are 100% safe. The U.S. Food & Drug Administration, the American Medical Association, the World Health Organization, Health Canada, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the National Academy of Sciences have all found GMOs to be completely safe. GMOs harm the environment. GM crops and their associated herbicides can harm birds, insects, amphibians, marine ecosystems, and soil organisms. They reduce bio-diversity, pollute water resources, and are unsustainable.
Most of the concern surrounding GMOs relates to their potential for negative effects on the environment and human health. Because GMOs that could directly effect human health are primarily products that can enter the human food supply, this website focuses on genetically modified food. Another example comes from a study showing that a strain of genetically modified soybean produced lower levels of phytoestrogen compounds, believed to protect against heart disease and cancer, than traditional soybeans (Bakshi, 2003).
The Environmental Impact. In addition to the potential health risks, there is some evidence that GMOs are bad for the environment. The Union of Concerned Scientists (UCSUSA) mentions six ways that GMOs might have a negative environmental impact. 1  GMO crops could become weeds. 
Many Americans are concerned about the spread of genetically modified organisms throughout agriculture -- and the perception that some members of the U.S. Congress are in the pocket of the Monsanto Co. (NYSE:MON) certainly isn’t helping. And much of the public is convinced that genetic modification is a health danger -- hence the fierce push to label GMO food and broad restrictions on GM crops in Europe. Some of the health concerns of food-safety advocates are warranted.
No chemicals are involved. [ Read Andrew Kimbrell: The Case for Labeling GMOs ]. Farmers have been using GMOs for nearly 20 years, and between 70 percent and 80 percent of the food you consume contains GM ingredients. The use of this technology ensures farmers can grow more food, fend off infestations and recover from drought faster. GM technology also helps to keep food prices lower.
GMOs are bad for your body, bad for the community, bad for farmers and bad for the environment. This is why: 1  The health consequences of eating genetically modified organisms are largely unknown. 2  Genetically engineered foods have not been shown to be safe to eat and may have unpredictable consequences. Share on Facebook Tweet on Twitter. Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are created when a gene from one species is transferred to another, creating something that would not be found in nature.
Genetic modification is a safe and effective way to make America’s crops resilient. By Pamela Bailey. + More. Italian scientists recently read and summarized 1,783 scientific studies to conclude that there is, in fact, scientific consensus around the safety of genetically modified organisms. Farmers have been using GMOs for nearly 20 years, and between 70 percent and 80 percent of the food you consume contains GM ingredients. The use of this technology ensures farmers can grow more food, fend off infestations and recover from drought faster. GM technology also helps to keep food prices lower.
As was the case for the nonexistent cell phone-cancer link, there has now been a steady drip-drip-drip of bad studies touted by anti-GMO activists as “evidence” that GMOs are the work of Satan that will corrupt or kill us all (and make us fat, to boot). 