A THERMOMETER measures the air temperature. Most thermometers are closed glass tubes containing liquids such as alcohol or mercury. When air around the tube heats the liquid, the liquid expands and moves up the tube. A scale then shows what the actual temperature is. A BAROMETER measures air press
The temperature of the air near the surface of the Earth is measured at meteorological observatories and weather stations, usually using thermometers placed in a Stevenson screen, a standardized well-ventilated white-painted instrument shelter. The thermometers should be positioned 1.25–2 m above the ground. 
3. Thermocouple Thermometer. This type of thermometer notices the difference between hot and cold junctions through the current in the attached probes. This is a very sensitive model that can provide accurate temperature results between -250 and 1600 degrees Celsius. 1. Traditional Thermometer. Traditional thermometers are designed for at home use for measuring the temperature of the air or water in both F or C. These should not require much maintenance, but they may have a varied accuracy, range and resolution.
Thermometers 1 A thermometer is a device that measures temperature or temperature gradient, using a variety of different principles. The word thermometer is derived from two smaller word fragments: thermo from the Greek for heat and meter from Greek, meaning to measure. 
The temperature of the air is a measure of how quickly the molecules are moving. The more energy of motion the molecules have, the higher the temperature you feel in the air. Air temperature is measured with thermometers. Common thermometers consist of a glass rod with a very thin tube in it. The tube contains a liquid that is supplied from a reservoir, or bulb, at the base of the thermometer. Sometimes the liquid is mercury, and sometimes it is red-colored alcohol. 
Different types of thermometers are intended to be used to measure different types of environments for temperature settings. There are a variety of thermometers available, each with a specific use. 1. Traditional Thermometer. Traditional thermometers are designed for at home use for measuring the temperature of the air or water in both F or C. These should not require much maintenance, but they may have a varied accuracy, range and resolution.
A variety of sensors are available for measuring air temperature, including mercury-in-glass thermometers, bimetallic thermometers, pressure thermometers, thermocouples, resistance temperature detectors, thermistors and monolithic (ICTT) temperature sensors. A common mistake is to measure air temperature at some location other than in the immediate vicinity of the animals. For example, measuring air temperature at four foot from the floor when the animals are only one foot in height, can sometimes result in errors of several degrees Celsius.
There are various principles by which different thermometers operate. They include the thermal expansion of solids or liquids with temperature, or the change in pressure of a gas on heating or cooling. Radiation-type thermometers measure the infrared energy emitted by an object, allowing measurement of temperature without contact. Thermometers are widely used in industry to control and regulate processes, in the study of weather, in medicine, and scientific research. The precision or resolution of a thermometer is simply to what fraction of a degree it is possible to make a reading. For high temperature work it may only be possible to measure to the nearest 10 °C or more. Clinical thermometers and many electronic thermometers are usually readable to 0.1 °C.
These thermometers are designed to measure extreme temperatures in the air, liquids or surfaces within a professional environment. The specific temperature range will vary by brand but they work to provide a non-slip grip that is manoeuvrable for use in a variety of environments without compromising accuracy. 1. Traditional Thermometer. Traditional thermometers are designed for at home use for measuring the temperature of the air or water in both F or C. These should not require much maintenance, but they may have a varied accuracy, range and resolution.