Sustanon 250 contains, per mL, short-acting testosterone propionate, 60 mg of testosterone phenylpropionate, 60 mg of testosterone isocaproate, and 100 mg of testosterone decanoate. The first, testosterone propionate, is short-acting and gives Sustanon a quick onset of action in a steroid cycle. 
The effect of six months treatment with a 100 mg daily dose of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) on circulating sex steroids, body composition and muscle strength in age-advanced men and women. Morales AJ(1), Haubrich RH, Hwang JY, Asakura H, Yen SS. Author information: 
Uses. This medication is used in men who do not make enough of a natural substance called testosterone. In males, testosterone is responsible for many normal functions, including growth and development of the genitals, muscles, and bones. It also helps cause normal sexual development (puberty) in boys. This medication is given by injection into the buttock muscle as directed by your doctor, usually every 1 to 4 weeks. Do not inject this medication into a vein. Dosage is based on your medical condition, testosterone blood levels, and response to treatment.
Available in oral and injectable forms, Testosterone cypionate has an active life of approximately 15-16 days and can be detected over a period of 3 months. The recommended dose of Testosterone Cypionate for men is 300-2000 mg per week but these doses must not stretch beyond a period of 6-8 weeks at a stretch. In the world of professional sports dominated by use of legal anabolic steroids and legit performance enhancing drugs, testosterone cypionate is one of the very few names that commands respect from all quarters.
Testosterone, or androgen, is the male sex hormone, naturally produced by the male body. It is necessary for normal sexual development, muscle growth, bone health, and genital development. However, some men cannot produce enough testosterone to keep the body properly supplied. In those cases, doctors may prescribe a testosterone replacement. One such treatment is testosterone cypionate, an injectable form of the hormone. Learn about testosterone cypionate and how it treats low testosterone levels. For adult males treating low testosterone levels, the average dose is 25 to 50 milligrams injected into the buttock muscle two to three times a week. Larger doses may be given less frequently. The amount of medicine you need depends on the severity of the condition that is being treated.
Testosterone Cypionate is one of the best mass building anabolics known to man and is a highly recommended as the base of any mass building cycle. An effective dose of this drug for a man is between 200-2000 mg per week. The degree of effects typically experienced with Testosterone use depends on dosage. Generally, the higher the dose used, the better the results, yet more potential for side effects due to higher amounts of androgens in the body. (3).
Testosterone Injections Dosage. Testosterone is a male hormone produced in the testicles. It is also referred to as a male growth hormone, as it is responsible for the development of facial hair, deep voice, and muscles in men. The level of testosterone in males shoots up drastically in their puberty. Decreasing testosterone levels is one of the main causes of low libido and low energy in men. Testosterone deficiency can lead to lack of motivation. For such men, testosterone injections may prove to be beneficial. Administration of this hormone can cause puberty in those with delayed puberty.
The aim of testosterone replacement therapy is to increase blood testosterone concentrations to normal levels. In doing so, it can also restore the man’s sex drive and expression of male sex characteristics (e.g. deep voice, body hair). 
Testosterone cypionate is a long-acting version of the parent hormone testosterone with an attached cypionate ester to delay its release into the body. Testosterone is the most potent, naturally occurring androgen that is formed in the human body. The degree of effects typically experienced with Testosterone use depends on dosage. Generally, the higher the dose used, the better the results, yet more potential for side effects due to higher amounts of androgens in the body. (3).
The recommended dose of testosterone cypionate is 20-100 mg per week, with or without meals. This long-lasting, single-ester steroid comes with a length of eight carbons and is generally stored in the adipose tissue when administered through an intramuscular injection. In the world of professional sports dominated by use of legal anabolic steroids and legit performance enhancing drugs, testosterone cypionate is one of the very few names that commands respect from all quarters.