A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a type of antidepressant known as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI). It is commonly used to treat depression, social anxiety disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), panic disorder and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. It is in a group of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) that work to balance out the chemical, serotonin, in the brain that causes depression symptoms when there is too little to go around.
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and social anxiety disorder. A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. It is in a group of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) that work to balance out the chemical, serotonin, in the brain that causes depression symptoms when there is too little to go around.
Sertraline is used for a number of conditions including: major depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), panic disorder and social phobia (social anxiety disorder). It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991. Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children.
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Do not take sertraline if you have used an MAO inhibitor such as furazolidone (Furoxone), isocarboxazid (Marplan), phenelzine (Nardil), rasagiline (Azilect), selegiline (Eldepryl, Emsam, Zelapar), or tranylcypromine (Parnate) in the last 14 days. A dangerous drug interaction could occur, leading to serious side effects.
A: Zoloft (sertraline) is in a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Zoloft is used to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic attacks, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and social anxiety disorder. A: Zoloft (sertraline) is a medication that is used to treat depression or anxiety. It is in a group of medications called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) that work to balance out the chemical, serotonin, in the brain that causes depression symptoms when there is too little to go around.
Sertraline (trade names Zoloft and others) is an antidepressant of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) class. It was introduced to the market by Pfizer in 1991. Sertraline is primarily prescribed for major depressive disorder in adult outpatients as well as obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, and social anxiety disorder, in both adults and children.
Sertraline is used to treat depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and social anxiety disorder (SAD). Sertraline belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Sertraline belongs to a class of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Other drugs in this class are fluoxetine (Prozac, Sarafem), paroxetine (Brisdelle, Paxil, Paxil CR, Pexeva), citalopram (Celexa) and fluvoxamine (Luvox CR) . 
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. Less serious side effects may include: 1  drowsiness, dizziness, tired feeling; 2  mild nausea, stomach pain, upset stomach, constipation; 3  dry mouth; 4  changes in appetite or weight; 5  sleep problems (insomnia); or.