The term phytochemicals is a broad name for a wide variety of compounds produced by plants. They’re found in fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and other plants. Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body. Some researchers estimate there are up to 4,000 phytochemicals!
Phytonutrients (also referred to as phytochemicals) are compounds found in plants. They serve various functions in plants, helping to protect the plant's vitality. For example, some phytonutrients protect the plant from UV radiation while others protect it from insect attack. Fruits and vegetables are concentrated sources of phytonutrients; other plant foods like whole grains, legumes/beans, nuts and seeds, and herbs and spices also contain phytonutrients.
Among the benefits of phytonutrients are antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Phytonutrients may also enhance immunity and intercellular communication, repair DNA damage from exposure to toxins, detoxify carcinogens and alter estrogen metabolism. Like all phytonutrients, lignans are found in fruits and vegetables, especially kale, broccoli, apricots and strawberries, according to Premkumar. They are particularly abundant in seeds and whole grains, including sesame seeds, poppy seeds, rye and oat bran. Flaxseeds are the richest source of lignans
Phytonutrients aren't essential for keeping you alive, unlike the vitamins and minerals that plant foods contain. But when you eat or drink phytonutrients, they may help prevent disease and keep your body working properly. These are called phytonutrients or phytochemicals.Phyto refers to the Greek word for plant. These chemicals help protect plants from germs, fungi, bugs, and other threats.
Plant foods contain thousands of natural chemicals. These are called phytonutrients or phytochemicals.Phyto refers to the Greek word for plant. These chemicals help protect plants from germs, fungi, bugs, and other threats. Fruits and vegetables contain phytonutrients. Other plant-based foods also contain phytonutrients, such as: 1  Whole grains. 2  Nuts. 3  Bean
Not only do phytonutrients award benefit to the plants but they also provide benefits to those who enjoy plant food. That's because they have health-promoting properties including antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and liver-health-promoting activities. Fruits and vegetables are concentrated sources of phytonutrients; other plant foods like whole grains, legumes/beans, nuts and seeds, and herbs and spices also contain phytonutrients.
Phytonutrients are chemicals found in plants that are necessary for the health and defense of the plant. And, some of them can also be useful to the human body. They’re found in all fruits and vegetables and many phytonutrient-rich foods have deep or bright colors — such as blueberries, red cabbage, tomatoes, and kale. However, not all foods that contain phytonutrients are jewel-toned!
Phytochemicals are found in plant foods (fruits, vegetables, beans, grains). By maintaining a balanced eating pattern that includes different forms and colors of fruits and vegetables, you’ll provide your body with a wide variety of all beneficial compounds, including phytochemicals! They’re found in fruits, vegetables, beans, grains, and other plants. Each phytochemical comes from a variety of different plant sources and has different proposed effects on, and benefits for, the body.