Simply put, you can’t legally drive a vehicle without tags. You must replace lost or damaged license plates as soon as possible. Of course, replacing them is a process like any other DMV transaction, riddled with state and situation variations. Some states, like California, require you to report lost license plates to law enforcement. Generally, you’ll have to submit a copy of the police report with the application for the replacement license plate. However, you should notify the police even if your state doesn’t require it.
You must replace your license plates immediately after your plate(s) has been lost, stolen, mutilated, or become illegible. You do this by requesting duplicate or substitute license plates. The requirements for regular series plates are: Complete an Application for Replacement Plates, Stickers, Documents (REG 156). 
1 If you have not received your replacement registration card, license plates, or stickers within two weeks of submitting your application, contact the New York DMV at (518) 402-4838, weekdays between 8 am and 4 pm for assistance. 2  See also Vehicle registration and Registration Renewal. You can obtain replacement plates only in person at the local DMV office. 1  Complete the Certificate of Lost License, Permit, or Plates. 2  Bring the damaged plate(s) with you, if you still have them. 3  If you have lost only one plate, the other one must be returned to the DMV.
If one or both of your license plates are lost, stolen, or damaged, you must apply for replacement plate(s) immediately. You can obtain replacement plates only in person at the local DMV office. 1  Complete the Certificate of Lost License, Permit, or Plates. 2  Bring the damaged plate(s) with you, if you still have them. 3  If you have lost only one plate, the other one must be returned to the DMV.
A new set of license plates will be ordered reflecting the same license plate number(s) and mailed to you in approximately 45 days from receipt of the defective license plate contact form. A registration sticker will be sent with the new license plates, provided that the license plates’ registration is current. 
Pay the Replacement License Plate Fees. The good news is that license plate replacement fees usually don’t cost any more than what you paid during the initial register car process. Sometimes, the fee is even lower. The better news is that, depending on where you live, you might get a replacement license plate for free. Some states, like California, require you to report lost license plates to law enforcement. Generally, you’ll have to submit a copy of the police report with the application for the replacement license plate. However, you should notify the police even if your state doesn’t require it.
1 If only 1 of 2 license plates is lost or stolen you will need to bring the remaining license plate to the DMV. 2  NOTE: Both plates will have to be replaced. 3  In order to replace your license plates for free you will need a police report or a MV-78B form. 4  If the plates are damaged, bring in the plates. To apply for a transit permit, go in person to a NY DMV office with: 1  The In-Transit Permit/Title Application (Form MV-82ITP). 2  A document proving you own the vehicle, such as the vehicle title. 3  A form of ID, such as your NY driver’s license.