An individual who commits money to investment products with the expectation of financial return. Generally, the primary concern of an investor is to minimize risk while maximizing return, as opposed to a speculator, who is willing to accept a higher level of risk in the hopes of collecting higher-than-average profits. “ The investor insisted on a bigger equity share in order to invest the amount of money the company was asking for.
BREAKING DOWN 'Investor'. Investors have varying risk tolerances, capital, styles, preferences and timeframes. For instance, some investors prefer very low-risk investments that will lead to conservative gains, such as certificates of deposits and certain bond products. A distinction can be made between the terms investor and trader in that investors typically hold positions for years to decades (also called a position trader or buy and hold investor) while traders generally hold positions for shorter periods.
An angel investor or angel (also known as a business angel, informal investor, angel funder, private investor, or seed investor) is an affluent individual who provides capital for a business start-up, usually in exchange for convertible debt or ownership equity. 
Investment is the commitment of money or capital to purchase financial instruments or other assets in order to gain profitable returns in the form of interest, income, or appreciation of the value of the instrument. Meaning of Investment from different Perspectives: Investment is a term frequently used in the fields of economics, business management and finance. It can mean savings alone, or savings made through delayed consumption. Investment can be divided into different types according to various theories and principles.
This article concerns investment in finance. In finance, investment is buying or creating an asset with the expectation of capital appreciation, dividends (profit), interest earnings, rents, or some combination of these returns. This may or may not be backed by research and analysis. In finance, investment is the purchase of an asset or item with the hope that it will generate income or appreciate in the future and be sold at the higher price. It generally does not include deposits with a bank or similar institution.
Any person who commits capital with the expectation of financial returns. Investors utilize investments in order to grow their money and/or provide an income during retirement, such as with an annuity. A distinction can be made between the terms investor and trader in that investors typically hold positions for years to decades (also called a position trader or buy and hold investor) while traders generally hold positions for shorter periods.
Investment Definition in terms of Finance : In finance, investment refers to the purchasing of securities or other financial assets from the capital market. It also means buying money market or real properties with high market liquidity. Some examples are gold, silver, real properties, and precious items. Meaning of Investment from different Perspectives: Investment is a term frequently used in the fields of economics, business management and finance. It can mean savings alone, or savings made through delayed consumption. Investment can be divided into different types according to various theories and principles.
investor. A person who buys an asset with the expectation that its market value will increase and yield a profit when sold. A person whose investment strategy focuses on the long-term, rather than speculation about short-term market movements. Compare to Daytrader; scalpe
What Investing Is Not. Investing is not gambling. Gambling is putting money at risk by betting on an uncertain outcome with the hope that you might win money. Part of the confusion between investing and gambling, however, may come from the way some people use investment vehicles. For example, it could be argued that buying a stock based on a hot tip you heard at the water cooler is essentially the same as placing a bet at a casino.