Xanax dosage for adults: Anxiety Disorder. The usual starting Xanax dosage is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg taken three times a day. This Xanax dosage may then be increased every three to four days to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, divided into smaller doses. Panic Disorder. The usual starting Xanax dosage for panic disorder is 0.5 mg taken three times a day. This amount can then be increased by 1 mg a day, every three to four days
1 Anxiety: An initial dose of 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 2  The dose can be increased gradually every three to four days up to maximum daily dose of 4 mg in divided doses. 3  Panic: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 1 Depression: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally three times a day. 2  The dose can be increased by no more than 1 mg every three to four days. 3  An average dose of 3 mg of Xanax daily in divided doses has shown to be most effective. 4  Maximum dose should not exceed 4.5 mg daily in divided doses
For most people, the recommended starting dose for the treatment of anxiety is 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg three times a day. Elderly people or those with liver disease (or other serious health problems) may need to start with a lower dosage, such as 0.25 mg two or three times daily. Higher Xanax dosages are often necessary to control the symptoms of panic disorder. However, it is recommended that you start with a low dose, such as 0.5 mg three times daily. Your healthcare provider can slowly increase your dose if necessary. Starting with a low dose and slowly increasing to an effective dosage helps prevent bothersome Xanax side effects.
Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily. The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. Description. Alprazolam (Xanax) is a benzodiazepine used to treat anxiety and panic disorder. Benzodiazepines are used to relieve anxiety, nervousness, or tension. Benzodiazepines should not be used for anxiety, nervousness, or tension caused by the stress of everyday life.
Treatment may be initiated with a dose of 0.5 mg three times daily. Depending on the response, the dose may be increased at intervals of 3 to 4 days in increments of no more than 1 mg per day. In controlled trials conducted to establish the efficacy of XANAX in panic disorder, doses in the range of 1 to 10 mg daily were used. The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily. Among the approximately 1700 patients participating in the panic disorder development program, about 300 received XANAX in dosages of greater than 7 mg/day, including approximately 100 patients who received maximum dosages of greater than 9 mg/
Anxiety Disorders and Transient Symptoms of Anxiety. Treatment for patients with anxiety should be initiated with a dose of 0.25 to 0.5 mg given three times daily. The dose may be increased to achieve a maximum therapeutic effect, at intervals of 3 to 4 days, to a maximum daily dose of 4 mg, given in divided doses. The mean dosage employed was approximately 5 to 6 mg daily. Among the approximately 1700 patients participating in the panic disorder development program, about 300 received XANAX in dosages of greater than 7 mg/day, including approximately 100 patients who received maximum dosages of greater than 9 mg/day.
1 The following dosage information is for the immediate release version: 2  Anxiety: An initial dose of 0.25 mg to 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally, three times a day. 3  The dose can be increased gradually every three to four days up to maximum daily dose of 4 mg in divided doses. 1 Depression: An initial dose of 0.5 mg of Xanax is administered orally three times a day. 2  The dose can be increased by no more than 1 mg every three to four days. 3  An average dose of 3 mg of Xanax daily in divided doses has shown to be most effective. 4  Maximum dose should not exceed 4.5 mg daily