Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food.
It usually takes from 24 to 72 hours for healthy people to completely digest food and eliminate waste products. The first stop for food is the esophagus, which moves food from the back of the throat to the stomach. About six to eight hours after eating, food passes through the stomach and small intestine.
Report an error. Digestion time varies depending on the individual. For most healthy adults, it's usually between 24 and 72 hours. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion and absorption of water. Elimination of undigested food residue through the large intestine usually begins after a total of 24 hours.
To further elaborate the hours of digestion from small intestine where the real digestion happens, the size of small intestine is normally ranging from 18-21 feet long and may take 3-6 hours for the chemical elements from food pass all the way though the blood stream to absorb the nutrients.
However, the normal range of digestion will take 24 to 72 hours. Now, let us have insight on how it takes to digest from the moment we ingest food up to the last process of digestion.
Meat may stay in the intestines for 24-72 hours and still depend on its type. Likewise, red meat in particular takes 1-3 days to complete the digestion process because of fat content and high protein, according to Lisa Cicciarello Andrews of University of Cincinnati.
Your body can digest most food in less time it takes hotshot celebrities to get engaged: about 4-12 hours. Fruits are the fastest travelers on the intestinal interstate, with meats driving like an oversized load in the right lane (they can take 2-3 days to be excreted or even longer as it rots inside your intestine).