ERFA Thyroid® is a hormone preparation made out of desiccated thyroid for hypothyroidism and other disorders related to thyroid disorders. ERFA Thyroid® varies from other levothyroxine preparations in it is a natural treatment containing around 20% T3 and traces of T2, T1 and calcitonin.
1 Dosing solely by the TSH and the total T4, or using the outdated Thyroid Panel. 2  Prescribing anti-depressants in lieu of evaluating and treating the free T3. 3  Telling thyroid patients that desiccated natural thyroid is unreliable, inconsistent, dangerous or outdated.
ERFA Thyroid is a prescription drug. To buy ERFA Thyroid from our international mail order prescription service, you must have a valid prescription. Buy ERFA Thyroid (Thyroid) online at the guaranteed lowest price. North Drugstore contracts with a Canadian pharmacy, international pharmacies and dispensaries.
1 Prescribing anti-depressants in lieu of evaluating and treating the free T3. 2  Telling thyroid patients that desiccated natural thyroid is unreliable, inconsistent, dangerous or outdated. 3  Making labwork more important than the hypo symptoms which scream their presence.
Levothyroxine is a replacement for a hormone that is normally produced by your thyroid gland to regulate the body’s energy and metabolism. Levothyroxine is given when the thyroid does not produce enough of this hormone on its own. Levothyroxine treats hypothyroidism (low thyroid hormone). Levothyroxine is also used to treat or prevent goiter (enlarged thyroid gland), which can be caused by hormone imbalances, radiation treatment, surgery, or cancer.
Myth: Synthetic thyroid medications are superior to natural thyroid. Fact: For many patients, synthetic medications work fine. But the fact is that for many other patients, natural thyroid resolves symptoms more effectively, perhaps because it includes both of the primary thyroid hormones, T4 and T3.
Thyroid Madness Definition: 1  Treating hypothyroid patients solely with T4-only meds. 2  Dosing solely by the TSH and the total T4, or using the outdated Thyroid Panel. 3  Prescribing anti-depressants in lieu of evaluating and treating the free T3.