Case Discussion: Laryngocele is usually an acquired herniation of laryngeal mucosa secondary to an increase in intralaryngeal pressure. Risk factors include excessive cough, playing wind instruments or post inflammatory stenosis and obstruction. 
Dr. T. Balasubramanian M.S. D.L.O. History: This benign tumor was first described by Virchow in 1863. He defined it as an anomalous air sac communicating with the laryngeal ventricle. He initially used the term laryngocele ventricularis to describe this condition. Laryngoceles are intimately associated with laryngeal saccule, which is infact an appendix of the laryngeal ventricle. If the accumulated fluid is mucoid in nature the term laryngomucocele is used. If it is filled with pus then laryngopyocele is used to describe the mass. Pathophysiology: Factors that cause an increase in intra laryngeal pressure like coughing, straining, blowing wind instruments may cause laryngocele.
laryngocele. [ləring′gōsēl′]. an abnormal air-containing cavity connected to the laryngeal ventricle. It is caused by a protrusion of the mucous membrane of the ventricle and may displace and enlarge the false vocal cord, resulting in hoarseness and airway obstruction. Because a laryngocele is also a potential reservoir of infection, it is usually excised. Also called laryngeal pouch, saccule of larynx.
Laryngocele refers to a congenital anomalous air sac communicating with the cavity of the larynx, which may bulge outward on the neck. It may also be acquired, seen in glassblowers due to continual forced expiration producing increased pressures in the larynx which leads to dilatation of the laryngeal ventricle (sinus of Morgagni). It is also seen in people with chronic obstructive airway disease.
Laryngocele Definition. Laryngocele refers to a congenital anomalous air sac which communicates with the cavity of the larynx which bulges outward. Laryngocele Causes. Laryngocele can be the result of abnormally large saccule. Saccule is the appendix of the laryngeal ventricle. This abnormally large saccule may extend over the level of the thyroid cartilage. These structures are connected with the laryngeal lumen and it is filled with air. This condition is more common in adults
Medical Definition of LARYNGOCELE. : an air-containing evagination of laryngeal mucous membrane having its opening communicating with the ventricle of the larynx. What made you want to look up laryngocele?
A laryngocele is a disorder of the saccule, or laryngeal appendix, in which air abnormally expands it. Watch this video to see how a laryngocele behaves in real-time, and why that can affect the voice. 
Laryngocele: A rare condition where an air-filled sac associated with the larynx becomes dilated. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Laryngocele is available below. Read about other experiences, ask a question about Laryngocele, or answer someone else's question, on our message boards: 1  I can not get a diagnosis. 2  Tell us your medical story. 3  Share your misdiagnosis story. 4  What is the best treatment for this? 5  See all the forums.