1. The basic unit of living matter in all organisms, consisting of protoplasm enclosed within a cell membrane. All cells except bacterial cells have a distinct nucleus that contains the cell's DNA as well as other structures like mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum. somatic cell, vegetative cell-any of the cells of a plant or animal except the reproductive cells; a cell that does not participate in the production of gametes; somatic cells are produced from preexisting cells; blastema-a mass of undifferentiated cells from which an organ or body part develops.
3. A membrane bound structure containing biomolecules, such as nucleic acids, proteins, and polysaccharides. Supplement. There are two distinct types of cells: prokaryotic cells (e.g. bacterial cells) and eukaryotic cells (e.g. plant or animal cell). The main difference between the two is a well-defined nucleus surrounded by a membranous nuclear envelope present only in eukaryotic cells. 
1 Some eukaryotic cells (plant cells and fungal cells) also have a cell wall. 2  Inside the cell is the cytoplasmic region that contains the genome (DNA), ribosomes and various sorts of inclusions. 3  The genetic material is freely found in the cytoplasm. While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species, humans contain more than 10 trillion (10 13) cells. Most plant and animal cells are visible only under the microscope, with dimensions between 1 and 100 micrometres.
Cells, for kids who are curious about how our bodies do what they do, spells out these important tasks in fun and fascinating detail; they’ll learn about the major differences between plant and animal cells, as well as get a close-up look at the “organs” that power each one. 
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. Cells consist of cytoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids. Organisms can be classified as unicellular (consisting of a single cell; including bacteria) or multicellular (including plants and animals). While the number of cells in plants and animals varies from species to species, humans contain more than 10 trillion (10 13) cells. Most plant and animal cells are visible only under the microscope, with dimensions between 1 and 100 micrometres.
That's because all cells are surrounded by a structure called the cell membrane — which, much like the walls of a house, serves as a clear boundary between the cell's internal and external environments. The cell membrane is sometimes also referred to as the plasma membrane. Rather than grouping cells by their size or shape, scientists typically categorize them by how their genetic material is packaged. If the DNA within a cell is not separated from the cytoplasm, then that cell is a prokaryote. All known prokaryotes, such as bacteria and archaea, are single cells. In contrast, if the DNA is partitioned off in its own membrane-bound room called the nucleus, then that cell is a eukaryote. Some eukaryotes, like amoebae, are free-living, single-celled entities
All cells are bounded by a cell membrane; plant cells have an outer cell wall in addition. 4. (Biology) biology any small cavity or area, such as the cavity containing pollen in an anther. 5. somatic cell, vegetative cell-any of the cells of a plant or animal except the reproductive cells; a cell that does not participate in the production of gametes; somatic cells are produced from preexisting cells; blastema-a mass of undifferentiated cells from which an organ or body part develops.