These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells. 
Alveoli. The epithelium of the alveoli, contains two main types of cells: 1. type I pneumocytes: large flattened cells - (95% of the total alveolar area) which present a very thin diffusion barrier for gases. They are connected to each other by tight junctions. 2. type II pneumocytes (making up 5% of the total alveolar area, but 60% of total number of cells). 
the walls of the alveoli are composed of simple squamous epithelium. these cells are called type I cells. there are also type II cells that secrete surfactant. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the walls of the alveoli are very thin but strong layers of elastic tissue lines with a single layer of flattened epithelium.
a thin layer of tissue that covers a surface, lines a cavity, or divides a space or organ. adj., adj mem´branous. alveolar-capillary membrane (alveolocapillary membrane) a thin tissue barrier through which gases are exchanged between the alveolar air and the blood in the pulmonary capillaries. Called also blood-air barrier and blood-gas barrier. alveolodental membrane periodontium. arachnoid membrane arachnoid. 
Third, the surface area would be reduced as the surface area of the alveoli becomes covered by a thick layer of water. The surface area of the water has now become the effective surface area of the lung. For these reasons, excess water in the lungs creates a barrier to oxygen uptake and can cause drowning. Carbon dioxide diffuses out of the capillaries, into the alveoli, into the thin layer of water, and then quickly exits into the air. The end result is that oxygen is taken out of the air and enters the bloodstream, while carbon dioxide is removed from the blood and released
The alveolar epithelium comprises two main cell types: the alveolar type I and alveolar type II cell. The type I cell is a complex branched cell with multiple cytoplasmic plates that are greatly attenuated and relatively devoid of organelles; these plates represent the gas exchange surface in the alveolus. 
the walls of the alveoli are composed of simple squamous epithelium. these cells are called type I cells. there are also type II cells that secrete surfactant. The outer layer of the skin (epidermis) is made up of stratified squamous epithelium. If it helps, remember stratified squamous is made up of multiple layers to provide protec … tion, like when you scrape your knee. because hopefully, there will be other layers underneath!
The epithelium is made up of ciliated columnar cells in larger bronchioles, or non-ciliated in smaller bronchioles (difficult to see at this magnification). There are no goblet cells, but there are cells called Clara cells. These cells are secretory-they secrete one of the components of surfactant. Respiratory | Trachea, bronchioles and bronchi. The conducting portion is made up of: nasal cavities, nasopharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchii and bronchioles. The trachea branches to give rise to two primary (main) bronchii. These then branch successively to give rise in turn to secondary and tertiary bronchii.
The alveoli consist of an epithelial layer and extracellular matrix surrounded by capillaries. In some alveolar walls there are pores between alveoli called Pores of Kohn. The alveoli contain some collagen and elastic fibres. The elastic fibers allow the alveoli to stretch as they are filled with air during inhalation. The alveolar membrane is the gas-exchange surface. Carbon dioxide rich blood is pumped from the rest of the body into the alveolar blood vessels where, through diffusion, it releases its carbon dioxide and absorbs oxygen.