True tree lilacs (Syringa reticulata and Syringa pekinensis) bloom a bit later than lilac bushes. Their blooms are white, and they're not as aromatic as the flowers of Syringa vulgaris and other lilac shrubs. But the tree lilacs do have an attractive bark, especially the Chinese tree lilac, which has a shedding bark a la the paper birch (Betula papyrifera). 
Lilac trees can grow to a height of thirty feet, and usually have a rounded, upright shape. The most common of the lilac trees is the Japanese lilac tree. The Japanese lilac tree is hardy to zones three through seven, and has creamy white flowers appearing in early summer. The heart shaped leaves of this lilac tree are dark green and deciduous. The flowers of lilac trees are similar to those on lilac bushes, but generally have smaller individual blossoms. The range of color is also more limited, usually only cream to pink, but some purple cultivars have been introduced. 
Vitex agnus–castus. Deciduous large shrub or small tree with distinctive palmately compound leaves. Profuse spikes of lavender flowers, blooming heavily in the early summer, and then sporadically throughout the summer and fall. Vitex is heat, drought and pest tolerant
Plants can be grown as large shrubs or small trees. Japanese tree lilac grows 20 to 30 feet tall with a spread of 15 to 25 feet. Leaves. Leaves are simple, opposite, entire, ovate, and 3 to 6 inches long, half as wide, with long, tapered tip. The medium to dark green leaves are slightly fuzzy beneath. 
Our native wild lilacs range in form from groundcover to large shrub or small tree; deciduous and evergreen; flowers of creamy white to bright cobalt blue. What they all have in common, however, is their need for excellent drainage, lack of summer watering and nutritionally lean soil. Characteristics: There are evergreen and deciduous species of Ceanothus. Of the evergreen varieties, leaves tend to be small, rounded to oval, toothed and somewhat leathery in texture, usually dark green. Leaves of deciduous varieties are larger, softer in texture, rounded to oval and slightly toothed.
Lilac Tree. The lilac tree is among the family of deciduous trees and is one of the hardy plants found on earth. This tree has become popular due to its characteristic feature of blooming flowers in mid to late spring. The flowers are not only eye-catching, but they also bear delicious fragrance, powerful but not overpowering. 
Lilac. Lilac bushes are one of the most popular deciduous shrubs planted in residential gardens. Tough as nails, hardy, disease resistant and easy to grow are just a few of the benefits of these shrubs. However, the most common reason Lilac's are planted is their attractive flowers and their incredible fragrance. 
Answer   Knowing when to trim lilac bushes is important. Most lilacs don't require pruning until they reach about six to eight feet tall. The best time for pruning lilac … bushes is right after their flowering has ceased. This allows new shoots plenty of time to develop the next season of blooms. Pruning lilacs too late can kill young developing buds. Most maple tree species are deciduous, because they lose their other parts seasonally; such as leaves, or petals after flowering and fruit when ripe. In a more specific sense, … deciduous means the dropping of a part that is no longer needed, or falling away after its purpose is finished. 10 people found this useful.
full sun. Zones: 2-8. This common lilac cultivar is an upright, deciduous shrub which grows 8-15' tall. Deep purple to wine red, sweetly fragrant, single flowers with white edges are arranged in dense, pyramidal, terminal clusters (panicles) which cover this shrub in late April to early May (St. Louis). 