A reduced version of the framework, .NET Compact Framework, is available on Windows CE platforms, including Windows Mobile devices such as smartphones. Additionally, .NET Micro Framework is targeted at severely resource-constrained devices. .NET Framework includes a garbage collector (GC) which runs periodically, on a separate thread from the application's thread, that enumerates all the unusable objects and reclaims the memory allocated to them. It is a non-deterministic, compacting, mark-and-sweep garbage collector.
1 Zachman framework, a logical structure intended to provide a comprehensive representation of an information technology enterprise that is independent of the tools and methods used in any particular IT business. Examples of frameworks that are currently used or offered by standards bodies or companies include: 1  Resource Description Framework, a set of rules from the World Wide Web Consortium for how to describe any Internet resource such as a Web site and its content.
Programs written for .NET Framework execute in a software environment (as contrasted to hardware environment), known as Common Language Runtime (CLR), an application virtual machine that provides services such as security, memory management, and exception handling. .NET Framework includes a garbage collector (GC) which runs periodically, on a separate thread from the application's thread, that enumerates all the unusable objects and reclaims the memory allocated to them. It is a non-deterministic, compacting, mark-and-sweep garbage collector.
.NET Framework (pronounced dot net) is a software framework developed by Microsoft that runs primarily on Microsoft Windows. .NET Framework includes a garbage collector (GC) which runs periodically, on a separate thread from the application's thread, that enumerates all the unusable objects and reclaims the memory allocated to them. It is a non-deterministic, compacting, mark-and-sweep garbage collector.
Part of the IT standards and organizations glossary: In general, a framework is a real or conceptual structure intended to serve as a support or guide for the building of something that expands the structure into something useful. Examples of frameworks that are currently used or offered by standards bodies or companies include: 1  Resource Description Framework, a set of rules from the World Wide Web Consortium for how to describe any Internet resource such as a Web site and its content.
Most times, applications will ask for a particular version of the framework to be installed. We'd recommend avoiding installing that particular version, and trying instead to install the most up-to-date version of .NET, assuming your Windows OS supports it. .NET is a framework like any other. The key is just to understand what a framework is: [en.wikipedia.org]. Essentially, a framework is just a bunch of code that the programmer can call without having to write it explicitly.
1 inversion of control: In a framework, unlike in libraries or normal user applications, the overall program's flow of control is not dictated by the caller, but by the framework. 2  default behavior: A framework has a default behavior. 3  This default behavior must be some useful behavior and not a series of no-ops. 1 non-modifiable framework code: The framework code, in general, is not supposed to be modified, while accepting user-implemented extensions. 2  In other words, users can extend the framework, but should not modify its code.
A framework is similar to an application programming interface (API), though technically a framework includes an API. As the name suggests, a framework serves as a foundation for programming, while an API provides access to the elements supported by the framework. For example, a Windows program may require Microsoft .NET Framework 4.0, which is not installed on all Windows machines (especially PCs running older versions of Windows). In this case, the Microsoft .NET Framework 4 installer package must be installed in order for the program to run.
In computer systems, a framework is often a layered structure indicating what kind of programs can or should be built and how they would interrelate. Some computer system frameworks also include actual programs, specify programming interfaces, or offer programming tools for using the frameworks. Examples of frameworks that are currently used or offered by standards bodies or companies include: 1  Resource Description Framework, a set of rules from the World Wide Web Consortium for how to describe any Internet resource such as a Web site and its content.
A framework, or software framework, is a platform for developing software applications. It provides a foundation on which software developers can build programs for a specific platform. For example, a Windows program may require Microsoft .NET Framework 4.0, which is not installed on all Windows machines (especially PCs running older versions of Windows). In this case, the Microsoft .NET Framework 4 installer package must be installed in order for the program to run.