I have a 2010 Toyota Corolla and one of my headlight bulbs was not working. I went to Auto Zone and they said they couldn't fix it and referred me to a repair a shop. Before I left Auto Zone I asked if I needed to just take the bulb since it was $10.99. He told me no they would give me one there and to say that he sent me. I went to the shop and said I was seeing how much it would cost to get my headlight replaced. They said they would look at it and see
Recently, a headlight lamp on my Audi A4 blew, and with much trepidation, I called my friendly thief of a dealer to inquire how much it would cost to replace. Since the car is off warranty (it has very low miles, so I figured what could go wrong...), I was told that the charge would be around $80. 
Parts: $82 - $100. The average cost for a headlamp bulb replacement is between $130 to $162. Labor costs are estimated between $48 to $62 while parts are priced between $82 to $100. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
Parts: $281 - $401. The average cost for a hid headlamp bulb replacement is between $347 to $485. Labor costs are estimated between $66 to $84 while parts are priced between $281 to $401. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: For the dealership to replace a headlight in our car, it's $75 total for the left one and $32 for the right one. That is because the battery is sitting behind the one on the left and they have to remove it...which makes the labor cost more. Before I left Auto Zone I asked if I needed to just take the bulb since it was $10.99. He told me no they would give me one there and to say that he sent me. I went to the shop and said I was seeing how much it would cost to get my headlight replaced.
Report Abuse. I think it's going to be expensive. The headlights now come as complete assemblies that you have to replace entirely in 1 go. On parts.com the headlight assembly costs $763.10, and this is a discount from $1073 MSRP. Then you need to add on the labor to switch it out. http://www.parts.com/oemcatalog/index.cf... 
How much is it? 1  Most of the time, the price of having a replacement headlight bulb depends on the type of car you have as well as the auto repair shop you choose to handle the repair. 2  Parts, on the other hand, can range anywhere from as little as $10 to as much as $130 for a HID light. 1 Parts, on the other hand, can range anywhere from as little as $10 to as much as $130 for a HID light. 2  Included in the amount you pay for headlamp repair service are the labor costs, the fee you pay for the maintenance, cost of the parts; and the dealer price.
For those vehicles with HID or LED lights the headlight assembly repair cost is much higher than vehicles with simple halogen lights. A common misdiagnosis for the replacement of a headlight assembly is a shot headlight bulb. You do not have to replace the full headlight assembly to replace the bulb. A bulb is a cheap and simple DIY repair that should not take more than 20 mins and $10-$75. The full cost of repairing or replacing a headlight assembly cannot be accurately estimated without knowing the make and model of the car. 
If it's your first time to replace the headlight bulbs of your car, then most likely, it's a halogen bulb. Halogen bulbs are the most commonly used today, and they typically last from 400 to 600 hours. These actually come in many different types. 