Islands located near a continent are generally considered, in a geographical sense, part of that continent. Greenland, for example, is politically part of Europe but belongs geographically to North America, as do the islands of the Caribbean and the western North Atlantic Ocean. There are some islands and island groups, however, that are not considered part of any continent, geographically speaking. By convention there are seven continents: Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Europe, Australia, and Antarctica. Some geographers list only six continents, combining Europe and Asia into Eurasia.
Islands located near a continent are generally considered, in a geographical sense, part of that continent. Greenland, for example, is politically part of Europe but belongs geographically to North America, as do the islands of the Caribbean and the western North Atlantic Ocean. There are some islands and island groups, however, that are not considered part of any continent, geographically speaking. Politically New Zealand is part of Oceania. Tectonically, it is on a (submerged) continent called Zealandia (continent). Zealandia is described by Hamish Campbell and Nick Mortimer in the book.
The Mediterranean Sea /ˌmɛdɪtəˈreɪniən ˈsiː/ is a sea connected to the Atlantic Ocean surrounded by the Mediterranean region and almost completely enclosed by land: on the north by Southern Europe and Anatolia, on the south by North Africa, and on the east by the Levant. The Mediterranean Sea has an average depth of 1,500 m (4,900 ft) and the deepest recorded point is 5,267 m (17,280 ft) in the Calypso Deep in the Ionian Sea.
It is a group of islands, and islands by definition are not part of continental landmasses. For example, Britain (also made up of islands) is part of the region known as Europe, but not the European continent. New Zealand is usually said to be part of the Oceania or Asia Pacific regions. Politically New Zealand is part of Oceania. Tectonically, it is on a (submerged) continent called Zealandia (continent). Zealandia is described by Hamish Campbell and Nick Mortimer in the book.
Due to the Mediterranean's large size and central location, it borders 21 different nations on three continents. The following is a list of the 21 nations with coastlines along the Mediterranean Sea. They are arranged alphabetically and separated by continent. By Amanda Briney. The Mediterranean Sea is a large sea that is located between Europe, northern Africa and southwestern Asia. Its total area is 970,000 square miles (2,500,000 sq km) and its greatest depth is located off the coast of Greece at around 16,800 feet (5,121 m) deep.
Eurasia. I don't consider Europe and Asia to be continents. The island of Cyprus is in the Mediterranean on the Eurasian plate, therefore it's part of Eurasia. Historically, I would consider it a part of Europe, because its history is more Greek than Turkish. And there is no continent called Oceania, Oceania is a region. But isn't it true that Cyprus is a part of Europe and most of Turkey is a part of Asia, even though Cyprus is more geographically remoted to other European countries than Turkey? Please, if someone knows for... show more Someone stated that if Turkey doesn't belong to Europe, then most definitely nor Cyprys does.
The countries with coastlines on the Mediterranean Sea are Albania, Algeria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Greece, Israel, Italy, Lebanon, Libya, Malta, Morocco, Monaco, Montenegro, Northern Cyprus (recognized only by Turkey), Palestine, Slovenia, Spain, Syria, Turkey, and Tunisia. The Mediterranean Sea has an average depth of 1,500 m (4,900 ft) and the deepest recorded point is 5,267 m (17,280 ft) in the Calypso Deep in the Ionian Sea.
By convention there are seven continents: Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Europe, Australia, and Antarctica. Some geographers list only six continents, combining Europe and Asia into Eurasia. Politically New Zealand is part of Oceania. Tectonically, it is on a (submerged) continent called Zealandia (continent). Zealandia is described by Hamish Campbell and Nick Mortimer in the book.