How to Buy a Recliner on eBay. eBay is a great source of recliners as well as upholstery tools. To find a great deal on a new or used recliner, you can use the eBay search box on any page of the site. Just enter some search terms, like  vintage recliner  or  upholstery fabric , and wait for the results. Before reupholstering a recliner, people should know how to choose new upholstery, take the recliner apart, remove the fabric, attach the new fabric, and reassemble the chair.
LazyBoy Makeover: How to Reupholster a Recliner. The recliner used in this project has been in my family for ages -- it's been dubbed the sick chair.. It's been through a knee surgery, an ankle surgery, countless colds, bouts of the flu, and even cancer. ALSO, bought the chair on craigslist...It needs nothing! Hubs wants the couch gone, and I have an amputee, sigh I might just have to find some one to turn me a leg for the prosthesis. New Ashley recliners were 600 to 800 dollars. My eye is still twitching.
1 On average, a La-Z-Boy recliner will need at least seven to nine yards to reupholster a chair. 2  Some charges could range from about $400 to more than $1,000 for the total upholster job via a professional. 3  The labor alone may cost from $350 to $450. On average, each recliner can cost anywhere from about $300 up to $2000 based on quality, features and type of materials. However, this chair is also prone to wear and damage, and overtime, it loses its attractive appearance. Oftentimes, the recliner can be damaged based on how you use it and how you take care of it.
:) I used about 5 yards of very wide upholstery fabric. Step 3: Rip off old fabric and cover with new fabric! Or you could even cover the old fabric with new fabric. I cut squares of fabric that cover the area of the piece I was working on and went at it. This takes a lot of tugging, pulling, folding and stapling. (Note to self and those reading: An electric stapler would be awesome for the next project. November 2, 2012 at 5:15 AM. My husband and I have been working to give our home a face lift-new paint, window treatments, and rugs-but I haven't been able to figure out how to fit our old recliner into the new color scheme. Your post provides the direction and encouragement to recover it.
LazyBoy Makeover: How to Reupholster a Recliner. The recliner used in this project has been in my family for ages -- it's been dubbed the sick chair.. It's been through a knee surgery, an ankle surgery, countless colds, bouts of the flu, and even cancer. 
It is cheaper in the long run. An $800 redo of a wonderfully made old sofa will last 12-15 years with minimum care and careful fabric selection. And every 10 to 20 years or so, you can make it look like a new one while keeping the quality built into it by craftspeople who took their work seriously 50-100 years ago. 
Today we’re going to take a look at how to reupholster a recliner. So, this is NOT a step by step on how to reupholster a recliner. I had that in mind when we started, and then I realized about 5 pictures in that it is a much more detailed process than the space of one tutorial post would allow. I found a chair I liked the bones of, and it looked like this: Because Hubby is not a negotiator and he went without me to look at and buy this chair, he paid the full asking price of $60 for this Lazy Boy recliner from 1972 – we know the year because we found a tag with the manufacturing date. He failed to notice that it had a semi-attached back
La-Z-Boy is a common furniture brand found in many homes. On average, each recliner can cost anywhere from about $300 up to $2000 based on quality, features and type of materials. However, this chair is also prone to wear and damage, and overtime, it loses its attractive appearance. Oftentimes, the recliner can be damaged based on how you use it and how you take care of it.
Check with your local re-upholsterers to see if they can reupholster your recliner at a reasonable price. A used lazy boy recliner with a good frame and reclining mechanism may still be a bargain if you can get it reupholstered. The backs on most lazy boy recliners can be removed for shipping purposes. The clips that hold the back in place may not be properly engaged on the recliner you are considering purchasing.