Gently lower the eggs into the water one at a time. Cook the eggs for 5 to 7 minutes: For 1 to 2 eggs, cook 5 minutes for a very runny yolk or up to 7 minutes for a barely-set yolk. For 3 or 4 eggs, add a few extra seconds to your timing. (For more than 4 eggs, cook in batches.) Remove the eggs with a slotted spoon. Bring the water up to a boil, then lower it to a rapid simmer. Add the eggs to the pot, and then begin timing. If you're just cooking one or two eggs, five minutes is perfect for a runny yolk, or cook as long as seven minutes for a more firmly set, but still spoonable, yolk.
1. Use a small saucepan. Place eggs in the pan, and fill with enough cold water to cover the eggs by about 1/2 inch (1cm). http://pad1.whstatic.com/images/thumb/b/be/Hard-Boil-an-Egg-Step-2-preview.jpg/550px-Hard-Boil-an-Egg-Step-2-preview.jpg. 1 3 minutes: the white is just set, and the yolk is just starting to thicken. 2  4 minutes: the white and yolk are set, with the center of the yolk still creamy. 3  Note: if your eggs are very fresh (1-5 days old), add an additional 30 seconds to the above times.
Cook. When I want a soft boiled egg I want the yolk soft and the white firm. The boiling time has a lot to do with your elevation. 5 minutes is perfect for an elevation of 1100 ft (330 meters) if you are nearer sea level decrease the boiling time if at a higher elevation increase the time. 1 Bring the water to a rapid boil. 2  add saltand keep it at a rapid boil. 3  Prick the bottom (wider end) of the egg with an egg pricker. 4  Immerse in the boiling water and boil for exactly 5 minutes.
Step 1: Place the Eggs in a Pan of Water and Bring to a Boil. For hard-boiled eggs, put the eggs in a pan and cover them with cold water. This way you'll have less of a chance of breaking them. Bring to a boil, put a lid on it and turn off the heat. Let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk. http://foodnetwork.sndimg.com/content/dam/images/food/fullset/2011/7/15/3/HT_Hard-Boil-Beauty-02_s4x3.jpg.rend.snigalleryslide.jpeg.
Always start with eggs that are at room temperature to best predict the cooking time and minimise cracking. For a soft-boiled egg, lower the egg into gently boiling water with a slotted spoon. Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be
Step 5: Soft-Boiled Eggs. Boil the water first and drop in the egg very gently. If you're making more than one, start timing when the water returns to a boil. Lower the heat to a simmer. In about 3 to 4 minutes you'll have the perfect consistency: tender-set egg whites with a creamy yolk. http://foodnetwork.sndimg.com/content/dam/images/food/fullset/2011/7/15/3/HT_Hard-Boil-Beauty-02_s4x3.jpg.rend.snigalleryslide.jpeg.
Step 3: Simmer the eggs for 4 minutes for soft-boiled eggs. For semi-firm yolks and hard whites, simmer for 5 minutes. For hard-boiled eggs, simmer for 8 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. Transfer to an egg cup and serve immediately.
Use a slotted spoon to lower the eggs gently into the simmering water. Cook the eggs for about 6 minutes; 5 minutes if you like a very runny yolk and 7 minutes if you prefer a firmer set one. Use the slotted spoon to remove the eggs from the water and place them into an ice-water bath for 30 to 60 seconds. Alternatively, run them under cold water. Difficulty: Intermediate. Despite its name, minimal boiling occurs when you make a soft-boiled egg. Producing velvety whites with a meltingly runny yolk requires immersing the eggs in gently simmering water for the optimal amount of time. Cook them too long, and the middles go hard; too little, and you've got raw eggs.
Directions. Place eggs in a saucepan large enough to accommodate them in a single layer. Fill the pan with cold water, covering eggs by an inch. Set over medium-high heat, and bring to a boil. Turn off heat, cover, and let stand 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Remove eggs from water. Serve immediately in egg cups -- perfect for cracking and scooping the egg right from the shell