Protein structure is the biomolecular structure of a protein molecule. Proteins are polymers — specifically polypeptides — formed from sequences of monomer amino acids. By convention, a chain under 40 amino acids is often identified as a peptide, rather than a protein. The sequence of a protein is unique to that protein, and defines the structure and function of the protein. The sequence of a protein can be determined by methods such as Edman degradation or tandem mass spectrometry. Often, however, it is read directly from the sequence of the gene using the genetic code.
Protein Structure. The three-dimensional geometry of a protein molecule is so important to its function that four levels of structure are used to describe a protein. The first level, or primary structure, is the linear sequence of amino acids that creates the peptide chain. Enzymes. Most enzymes are proteins and therefore their function is specific to their structure. Enzymes function as a catalyst to increase the rate of virtually all the chemical reactions that take place in a living system.
Structure. The sequence of amino acids in a protein determines its shape, which in turn determines its function. The raw sequence of amino acids is known as its primary structure. However, when a molecule is as large as proteins tend to be, it will interact with itself to take on a specific shape.
A protein is not a protein without its 3D structure, and regardless of what function it has, a protein is useless if its structure is somehow incorrect. Scientists in the field actually refer to proteins as having structure-function relationships. You don't get more thematic than that. 
A single protein molecule may contain one or more of these protein structure types. The structure of a protein determines its function. For example, collagen has a super-coiled helical shape. It is long, stringy, strong, and resembles a rope. This structure is great for providing support. 1 These proteins are involved in muscle contraction and movement. 2  Enzymes-are proteins that facilitate biochemical reactions. 3  They are often referred to as catalysts because they speed up chemical reactions. 4  Examples include the enzymes lactase and pepsin.
It is the particular sequence of amino acids that determines the shape and function of the protein. Protein synthesis, like many other biological processes, can be affected by environmental factors. These include maternal nutrition, temperature, stress, oxygen levels and exposure to chemicals. Proteins are molecules made of amino acids. They are coded for by our genes and form the basis of living tissues. They also play a central role in biological processes.
Proteins differ from one another primarily in their sequence of amino acids, which is dictated by the nucleotide sequence of their genes, and which usually results in protein folding into a specific three-dimensional structure that determines its activity. A linear chain of amino acid residues is called a polypeptide. A protein contains at least one long polypeptide. Short polypeptides, containing less than 20-30 residues, are rarely considered to be proteins and are commonly called peptides, or sometimes oligopeptides.
For example, structural proteins maintain cell shape, akin to a skeleton, and they compose structural elements in connective tissues like cartilage and bone in vertebrates. Enzymes are another type of protein, and these molecules catalyze the biochemical reactions that occur in cells. Yet other proteins work as monitors, changing their shape and activity in response to metabolic signals or messages from outside the cell. 
Protein function is directly related to the structure of that protein. A protein's specific shape determines its function. If the three-dimensional structure of the protein is altered because of a change in the structure of the amino acids, the protein becomes denatured and does not perform its function as expected. Enzymes. Most enzymes are proteins and therefore their function is specific to their structure. Enzymes function as a catalyst to increase the rate of virtually all the chemical reactions that take place in a living system.