Casein is a protein that is found in milk and used independently in many foods as a binding agent. Technically, it is part of a group called phosphoproteins, collections of proteins bound to something containing phosphoric acid. It may also be called caseinogen, particularly in European foods. 
Foods that Contain Casein. Dairy Foods: Casein is mainly found in milk. According to the study reports presented by the Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network (FANN), about 2.5% kids younger than 3 years are allergic to milk. Most people are allergic or intolerant to lactose (a sugar in milk)
A. If a glass of milk or a slice of pizza causes swollen lips, hives, or other significant symptoms, you may have an allergy to casein, a protein in milk. Another milk protein associated with food allergies is whey. Some people are allergic to both casein and whey. The most serious reaction to milk allergy is called anaphylaxis. This is a potentially life threatening reaction that can occur rapidly. Allergy to foods (including casein in milk) is believed to be the leading cause of anaphylaxis outside the hospital setting.
Use the free fitness report card now! According to World’s Healthiest Foods, casein is found in many processed foods. Casein is one of the primary proteins in cow’s milk. When eaten, casein protein turns into a gel like substance in the stomach that slowly digests and releases amino acids. Casein is added to foods for texture, emulsification and protein supplementation. 
Meet Milk Protein: Whey and Casein. There are two types of protein found in dairy products: casein and whey protein. Thirty-eight percent of the solid matter in milk is made of protein. Of that total protein, 80 percent is casein and 20 percent is whey. Cheese is made mostly of casein, where most of the liquid whey found in milk has been filtered or strained out. But all dairy products contain casein, not just cheese.
Casein is one of the main proteins found in dairy products. Lactose intolerance, which is an intolerance to the sugar found in milk, is one of the most common food intolerances, but an intolerance to casein can sometimes cause similar symptoms. Casein is one of the main proteins found in milk and some dairy products. Since casein is a protein, it is found in dairy products that have a higher protein content, such as milk, yogurt, kefir, cheese and ice cream. Dairy products that contain barely any protein, such as butter and cream, only have traces of casein.
These proteins are commonly found in mammalian milk, making up 80% of the proteins in cow milk and between 20% and 45% of the proteins in human milk. Casein has a wide variety of uses, from being a major component of cheese, to use as a food additive, to a binder for safety matches. 
Casein is a type of protein found in milk and milk products. In people with milk allergies, casein may be the culprit. The protein sometimes shows up in unsuspected products, so awareness is essential if your doctor has advised you to avoid it. All cow's milk contains casein. Cream, half and half, yogurt and sour cream are other obvious sources of the protein. Ice cream, butter, cheese and pudding also contain it. Foods made with these products -- such as cream-based soups, sherbet, pudding and custard -- are also casein-rich.
If a glass of milk or a slice of pizza causes swollen lips, hives, or other significant symptoms, you may have an allergy to casein, a protein in milk. Another milk protein associated with food allergies is whey. The most serious reaction to milk allergy is called anaphylaxis. This is a potentially life threatening reaction that can occur rapidly. Allergy to foods (including casein in milk) is believed to be the leading cause of anaphylaxis outside the hospital setting.
Casein in Foods. Most dairy products contain casein, but not all. Since casein is a protein, it is found in dairy products that have a higher protein content, such as milk, yogurt, kefir, cheese and ice cream. Dairy products that contain barely any protein, such as butter and cream, only have traces of casein.