Both the WBC count and WBC differential can provide your doctor with clues as to why you have elevated or low white blood cell numbers. Both tests can also help your doctor know if your condition is getting worse or improving. To conduct a WBC count and differential, your doctor will need to collect a blood sample from you. Blood is typically drawn from a vein in either the bend of your arm or on your hand.
A differential informs the healthcare provider as to which type of WBC is low or high. An abnormal differential result may be followed by other tests such as a blood smear, bone marrow biopsy, chromosome analysis, or immunophenotyping (e.g., flow cytometry). The differential is often performed as part of the complete blood count (CBC) , which may be ordered at the time of a routine health exam. A differential may be included as part of the CBC when someone has general signs and symptoms of an infection and/or inflammation, such as: 1  Fever, chills. 2  Body aches, pain. 3  Headache.
The white blood cell differential count determines the number of each type of white blood cell, present in the blood. It can be expressed as a percentage (relative numbers of each type of WBC in relationship to the total WBC) or as an absolute value (percentage x total WBC). Of these, the absolute value is much more important than the relative value. There are five basic white blood cell types: 1  Neutrophils
Differential blood count is not a part of complete blood count (CBC) but is interpreted together with CBC to help support or exclude a suspected diagnosis. For example, the presence of anemia along with thrombocytopenia with a low or high white blood cell count may suggest bone marrow involvement by leukemia. Interpretation. Differential blood count gives relative percentage of each type of white blood cell and also helps reveal abnormal white blood cell populations (eg, blasts, immature granulocytes, or circulating lymphoma cells in the peripheral blood).
A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. This means that a value that falls outside the normal values listed here may still be normal for you or your lab. Normal values for the complete blood count (CBC) tests depend on age, sex, how high above sea level you live, and the type of blood sample.
White Blood Cell Count and Differential. A white blood cell (WBC) count measures the number of white blood cells in your blood. A WBC differential determines the percentage of each type of white blood cell present in your blood. A differential can also detect immature white blood cells or any abnormalities, both of which are signs of a potential problem. To conduct a WBC count and differential, your doctor will need to collect a blood sample from you. Blood is typically drawn from a vein in either the bend of your arm or on your hand.
The white blood cell differential is often used as part of a complete blood count (CBC) as a general health check. It may be used to help diagnose the cause of a high or low white blood cell (WBC) count, as determined with a CBC. The differential is often performed as part of the complete blood count (CBC) , which may be ordered at the time of a routine health exam. A differential may be included as part of the CBC when someone has general signs and symptoms of an infection and/or inflammation, such as: 1  Fever, chills. 2  Body aches, pain. 3  Headache.
The white blood cell count (WBC) is a component of a complete blood cell count (CBC) and is the enumeration of white blood cells in a small volume of whole blood. The testing is performed on an automated hematology analyzer. 
White Blood Cell Count (WBC) and Differential. White blood cells, or leukocytes, are classified into two main groups: granulocytes and nongranulocytes (also known as agranulocytes). 1  The granulocytes, which include neutrophils, eosinophils, and basophils, have granules in their cell cytoplasm. The lifespan of white blood cells ranges from 13 to 20 days, after which time they are destroyed in the lymphatic system. When immature WBCs are first released from the bone marrow into the peripheral blood, they are called bands or stabs.. Leukocytes fight infection through a process known as phagocytosis.