Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease.
Types of Vegetables. Starchy vegetables include several types of roots, bulbs and kernels. Corn, peas, parsnips, potatoes, pumpkin, squash, zucchini and yams are all examples of starchy vegetables. Non-starchy vegetables are typically flowering parts of the plant. Lettuce, asparagus, broccoli, cauliflower, cucumber, spinach, mushrooms, onions, peppers and tomatoes are all considered non-starchy vegetable
On the other hand, there is also another type of vegetable: the non-starchy vegetables. These plant foods are nutrient-dense (having more vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants) but contain lower amounts of carbohydrate and energy compared to the starchy vegetables. Generally, there are two types of vegetables according to their carbohydrate content: the starchy vegetables are those with high carbohydrate content, while the non-starchy vegetables are those with low carbohydrates.
There are two main types of vegetables—starchy and non-starchy. For this section, we are going to focus only on the non-starchy vegetables. Starchy vegetables like potatoes, corn and peas are included in the  Grains and Starchy Vegetables  section because they contain more carbohydrate.
Green plants produce starch and many staple foods like potatoes, rice, and corn contain large amounts of this organic compound. Starch in vegetables are digested primarily by gastric amylase, an enzyme found in the gastrointestinal tract, and the digested starch is then stored in the cells to be used as energy. Generally, there are two types of vegetables according to their carbohydrate content: the starchy vegetables are those with high carbohydrate content, while the non-starchy vegetables are those with low carbohydrates.
Starchy vegetables, such as corn, potatoes, squash, peas and yams, offer a variety of healthy benefits. Acorn squash, butternut squash, winter squash, white potatoes, sweet potatoes, yams, corn and green peas are all rich in potassium, a mineral that helps preserve bone health and reduce blood pressure. Butternut squash is rich in beta-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin, antioxidants that help maintain skin, hair and eye health. Starchy vegetables are easy to incorporate into your diet. They make excellent side dishes to complement a variety of healthy meals.
Although potatoes are vegetables, in the UK we mostly eat them as the starchy food part of a meal, and they are a good source of carbohydrate in our diets. Because of this, potatoes don't count towards your five portions of fruit and vegetables a day, but they can play an important role in your diet. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease.
Starchy vegetables are high-carbohydrate plant foods that contain a rich energy source for man. Starch is a carbohydrate formed from the bonding of several glucose units, and is the most common form of stored energy from plants that is present in the human diet. Generally, there are two types of vegetables according to their carbohydrate content: the starchy vegetables are those with high carbohydrate content, while the non-starchy vegetables are those with low carbohydrates.
Beans are one of the healthiest starch options, according to Dr. Jampolis. This starch contains lots of fiber, protein and antioxidants. Beans are extremely versatile and can be used as a side dish or main meal. Vegetarian chili is one great way to use a few different types of beans in a delicious dish. Experiment with different types of beans to find the ones you like, such as kidney beans, navy beans and pinto beans. Butternut squash is rich in beta-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin, antioxidants that help maintain skin, hair and eye health. Starchy vegetables are easy to incorporate into your diet. They make excellent side dishes to complement a variety of healthy meals.