NOK culture is a culture which provides evidence of the earliest ancient civilization of Nigeria. Nok culture is named after the city, Nok in the present Kaduna State where the first finds or objects or cultural artifacts were excavated by archaeologists in 1929.
By Alistair Boddy-Evans. Nok Culture spanned the end of the Neolithic (Stone Age) and start of the Iron Age in sub-Saharan Africa, and may be the oldest organized society in sub-Saharan Africa; current research suggests it predated the founding of Rome by some 500 years.
Nok sculpture, terracotta, Louvre The Nok culture appeared in Nigeria around 1000 B.C. andmysteriously vanished around 500 AD in the region of West Africa.This region lies in Central Nigeria.
The Nok culture was an ancient civilisation in what is now Nigeria. It appeared around 1000 BC and vanished around 300 CE. This civilisation lived in northern and central Nigeria.
an archaeological culture that was widespread from circa 900. to the second century. over what is now northern and central Nigeria. It is named after the site of the first finds, discovered in 1931, in the village of Nok, southwest of the town of Jos.
an archaeological culture that was widespread from circa 900. to the second century. over what is now northern and central Nigeria. It is named after the site of the first finds, discovered in 1931, in the village of Nok, southwest of the town of Jos. Especially significant were the terra-cotta heads of a very pronounced African racial type.
The civilization, which flourished in and around Nok, a small village of Kaduna, Nigeria, is believed to have been the oldest society in the sub-Saharan regions of Africa. Evidence suggests that the Nok Culture existed in central Nigeria as early as 1000 BC.
The Nok culture appeared in Northern Nigeria around 1000 BC and vanished under unknown circumstances around 300 AD in the region of West Africa. It is thought to have been the product of an ancestral nation that branched to create the Hausa, Gwari, Birom, Kanuri, Nupe and Jukun peoples.