1 Create a living smorgasbord that includes plants with berries, foliage, fruit, nectar, nuts, pollen, sap, and seeds, so critters can dine on what they like. 2  When it shoves its tubelike mouthparts into a plant to suck sap from the xylem, the insect may transmit a deadly plant bacterium, Xylella fastidiosa, in its saliva. It comes originally from the late 16th-century verb sap ‘dig a tunnel or covered trench’ thus meaning ‘undermine’. The latter is from French saper, from Italian zappa ‘spade, spadework’, probably from Arabic sarab ‘underground passage’, or sabora ‘probe a wound, explore’.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: SAP means Systems, Applications and Products in data processing. SAP is the third largest software company in the world. SAP is the largest business application and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) solution software provider in terms of revenue. SAP's products focus on ERP, which it helped to pioneer. Don't worry, the translated version to English-means Systems, Applications, Products in Data Processing SAP is the King or Enterprise Resource Planning applications and is the NUMBER 1.
1 The fluid which circulates in the vascular system of a plant, consisting chiefly of water with dissolved sugars and mineral salts. Example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Create a living smorgasbord that includes plants with berries, foliage, fruit, nectar, nuts, pollen, sap, and seeds, so critters can dine on what they like. It comes originally from the late 16th-century verb sap ‘dig a tunnel or covered trench’ thus meaning ‘undermine’. The latter is from French saper, from Italian zappa ‘spade, spadework’, probably from Arabic sarab ‘underground passage’, or sabora ‘probe a wound, explore’.
Definition of SAP. 1. a: the fluid part of a plant; specifically: a watery solution that circulates through a plant's vascular system b (1) : a body fluid (as blood) essential to life, health, or vigor (2) : bodily health and vigor. 2. : a foolish gullible person. Definition of SAP. intransitive verb. : to proceed by digging a sap. transitive verb. 1. : to subvert by digging or eroding the substratum or foundation: undermine. 2. 3. : to operate against or pierce by a sap
SAP stands for Systems Applications and Products in Data Processing. It was Founded in 1972 by Wellenreuther, Hopp, Hector, Plattner and Tschira. SAP by definition is also name of the ERP (Enterprise Resource Planing) software as well the name of the company. SAP system comprises of a number of fully integrated modules, which covers virtually every aspect of the business management. SAP is #1 in the ERP market
Old English saep, sæp probably Of germanic. Origin the (verb dating from the mid 18th) century is often interpreted as a figurative use of the ‘notion drain the sap’, from but is derived originally from the verb, sap in the 'sense'. Undermine. More Old english ‘saep sæp’ vital fluid is Probably of. germanic origin It comes originally from the late 16th-century verb sap ‘dig a tunnel or covered trench’ thus meaning ‘undermine’. The latter is from French saper, from Italian zappa ‘spade, spadework’, probably from Arabic sarab ‘underground passage’, or sabora ‘probe a wound, explore’.
Origin. Late 16th century (as a verb in the sense 'dig a sap or covered trench'): from French saper, from Italian zappare, from zappa 'spade, spadework', probably from Arabic sarab 'underground passage', or sabora 'probe a wound, explore'. More. Old English saep ‘sæp vital’ fluid is probably Of germanic. origin It comes originally from the late 16th-century verb sap ‘dig a tunnel or covered trench’ thus meaning ‘undermine’. The latter is from French saper, from Italian zappa ‘spade, spadework’, probably from Arabic sarab ‘underground passage’, or sabora ‘probe a wound, explore’.
'sap' also found in translations in German-English dictionary. wenn sich Fruehlingsgefuehle frühlingsgefühle. regen wenn Sich fruehlingsgefuehle. frühlingsgefühle. regen exp when he starts to; feel frisky when the sap starts. to rise Wenn sich fruehlingsgefuehle frühlingsgefühle. bei ihm/regen an. jdm etw/zehren an. jdm. etw zehren exp to sap sb's energy/enthusiasm jdm die Energie/Begeisterung nehmen. Translation English-German Collins Dictionary. See also: sap, slap, snap, soap. [Lit.]. To ensure the quality of comments, you need to be connected. It’s easy and only takes a few seconds Or Sign up/login to Reverso account. the sap is rising exp.