The first five years of a child's life are fundamentally important. They are the foundation that shapes children's future health, happiness, growth, development and learning achievement at school, in the family and community, and in life in general. Understanding the stages of child development helps parents know what to expect and how to best support the child as she or he grows and develops. In many settings, early childhood programmes support parents and their children from infancy through age 8, which includes the important transition from home to school.
The Importance of Early Childhood Cognitive Development. Early childhood generally refers to the period from birth through age 5. A childs cognitive development during early childhood, which includes building skills such as pre-reading, language, vocabulary, and numeracy, begins from the moment a child is born.
To determine the role of parents on children’s early childhood development and education. 2. To determine the role of other family members on children’s early childhood development and education. 3. To compare both the parents’ role on children’s early childhood development and education. 3.2 Research Questions 1. 4. METHODOLOGY The major purpose of this study was to find out the role of families on children’s early childhood care and education. The study had been carried out based on descriptive mode of research. Data have been collected from different sources for the purpose of qualitative and quantitative approaches.
Importance of early childhood development. The emotional, social and physical development of young children has a direct effect on their overall development and on the adult they will become. That is why understanding the need to invest in very young children is so important, so as to maximize their future well-being. 
The research on family involvement leaves little doubt about the importance and the benefits of families' participation in children's education. Early childhood educators have traditionally encouraged parent involvement, so the transition may not be so difficult to involve families. Understanding families and communities is the starting point, and the goal of this chapter. From that understanding, it will be important to develop a philosophy about families.
It is the most crucial period of a child’s life. Involvement of family is very much needed in this period. This study has been carried out on Dhaka-the capital city of Bangladesh; in search of the role of the families on children’s early childhood development and education. 4. METHODOLOGY The major purpose of this study was to find out the role of families on children’s early childhood care and education. The study had been carried out based on descriptive mode of research. Data have been collected from different sources for the purpose of qualitative and quantitative approaches.
Extensive research, much of it very current, shows that families are critical to children's success. We think that the findings of some of those studies are an important foundation to your philosophy about family involvement and to your decisions about the role families will play in your future work. Early childhood educators have traditionally encouraged parent involvement, so the transition may not be so difficult to involve families. Understanding families and communities is the starting point, and the goal of this chapter. From that understanding, it will be important to develop a philosophy about families.
Early Learning Deputy Assistant Secretary Libby Doggett, Ph.D. recaps key messages discussed during the White House Symposium on Transformative Family Engagement along with early childhood initiatives launched to strengthen home-school connection in this U.S. Department of Education blog post. 
By Kyle Snow, Ph.D. Meaningful family engagement in children’s early learning supports school readiness and later academic success. Parental involvement is a critical element of high-quality early care and education. A pair of recent studies underscores the importance of family involvement in early education experiences. The first study looks at how frequently families engage in certain activities at home that promote readiness skills in relation to their views about several readiness skills.