1 Blood glucose meters require the purchase of test strips, which a diabetic patient could use up to 12 times a day. 2  Test strips are specific to the blood glucose meter and range in cost from $.35 each to $1 each, according to an article published in the Medical Laboratory Observer. 1 Lancets (small, thin needles used to puncture the skin) are required to test a patient's blood sugar, and cost between $5 and $22 per 100 lancets, depending upon the features.Some lancets have a setting for various depths of penetration.
1 Test strips are specific to the blood glucose meter and range in cost from $.35 each to $1 each, according to an article published in the Medical Laboratory Observer. 2  Individuals with insurance coverage for the test strip packages can expect to pay typical copays and coinsurance rates, which can range from $5 to $50. 1 Lancets (small, thin needles used to puncture the skin) are required to test a patient's blood sugar, and cost between $5 and $22 per 100 lancets, depending upon the features.Some lancets have a setting for various depths of penetration.
Glucose monitors and the strips you use each time you test your blood vary widely in price. There are about 75 different kinds. Many are covered by insurance, as well as Medicare, so finding one that your doctor recommends, and that your coverage will pay for, can help you obtain one that is affordable. Sometimes you can even get a monitor free from your doctor or diabetes educator or the manufacturer. The real expense is the test strips. At full retail, these typically go for about $0.75 per strip. Even if you're monitoring just once a day, that's $22.50 per month or $270.00 per year.
The cost of home blood glucose monitoring can be substantial due to the cost of the test strips. In 2006, the consumer cost of each glucose strip ranged from about $0.35 to $1.00. Manufacturers often provide meters at no cost to induce use of the profitable test strips. 
Glucose monitors are not very expensive; they typically retail for between $50 and $100, and you can usually get coupons that offer a substantial discount. Sometimes you can even get a monitor free from your doctor or diabetes educator or the manufacturer. The real expense is the test strips. At full retail, these typically go for about $0.75 per strip. Even if you're monitoring just once a day, that's $22.50 per month or $270.00 per year.
1 Check with them, they may have a contract with a different meter company and you may be paying more than you have to for your test strips. 2  Check with your blood glucose meter company. 3  Many companies have programs or discount cards to help with the cost of testing supplies. 4  The number should be on the back of your meter. 
Test Strips. Blood glucose (blood sugar) test strips are used with a meter to monitor the level of glucose in the blood in type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Another type of test strip can monitor ketones, though a different type of meter may be needed to read the strip. 
Low-cost Blood Glucose Test Strips. Discovering low-cost blood glucose test strips on your diabetic test meter will be something that may truly assist the regular monthly spending budget. 
1 Blood glucose meters vary tremendously. 2  For those without insurance, a meter can cost between $8.99 and $1,150, but averages $20-$80. 3  While all meters perform the same function, the cost depends primarily on the meter's extra features. 1 Lancets (small, thin needles used to puncture the skin) are required to test a patient's blood sugar, and cost between $5 and $22 per 100 lancets, depending upon the features.Some lancets have a setting for various depths of penetration.
Tips for Buying Blood Glucose Test Strips. Expense of the blood glucose test strips. Over time, test strips are often the most expensive part of monitoring your blood sugar, so keep in mind the cost of compatible strips when choosing your glucose monitor. On average, glucose test strips range from 35¢ to $1.00 each. Amount of blood glucose test strips to buy. Outdated glucose test strips can affect the accuracy of your blood sugar readings, so pay close attention to the expiration date on the box and only buy as many as you can use in that time period. Blood sample size needed.