The maximum life expectancy of shubunkins and many other goldfish is approximately 30 years, although this is not the norm. Expect 10 years in an aquarium and 25 years in a pond. During this time, the 3- to 5-inch-long shubunkin you purchased can grow to 12 inches.
The Shubunkin Goldfish is usually kept in ponds, but you can keep a Shubunkin Goldfish in an aquarium as well as long as you can provide it with enough space. The Shubunkin Goldfish can grow very large and an adult Shubunkin Goldfish will need at least 30-40 gallons of water, while a juvenile requires around 15 gallons. The aquarium or pond should be decorated and provide the Shubunkin Goldfish with heavily planted places as well as open areas for swimming.
Goldfish commonly grow to over 12 inches. The size of your tank would indicate that it is not really large enough for keeping goldfish in. The basic rule of fishkeeping … is 1 Inch of fish needs a minimum of 1 gallon of water. Goldfish should really be kept in a pond.
Fancy Goldfish (Ryukins, orandas, fan tail, bubble eyes) - Grow about 6 inches. Ranchus, Lion heads, Pearl Scales-grow about 3 - 4 inches. Common Goldfish (comets) - They can reach lengths of 2 feet or more. Koi-grow about 12 - 24 inches, sometimes more.
Fancy goldfish don’t grow as large as Common goldfish. A good size would be around 5 inches body length for most fancy varieties, 8 inches for Comets and 12 inches for Common Goldfish. These sizes are usually only attained by pond grown fish.
Common Goldfish can grow over 90 centimeters and take more than 2 years to max out. I've been told that they don't stop growing, but I don't know how true that is. Fancy Goldfish can grow to about 20 centimeters ant take about 2 years to max out I hope the Goldfish aren't Fancy, Koi can get very nasty.
Shubunkin goldfish can grow to be 12 inches, so according to this rule, you should give each goldfish 12 gallons. This guideline works better for small fish than for big goldfish. Instead, I like to follow the guideline #2 below.