In this article. Histoplasmosis: A disease caused by the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Most people with histoplasmosis have no symptoms. However, histoplasma can cause acute or chronic lung disease and progressive disseminated histoplasmosis affecting a number of organs. It can be fatal if untreated
Histoplasmosis (also known as cave disease, Darling's disease, Ohio valley disease, reticuloendotheliosis,  spelunker ’s lung and caver's disease) is a disease caused by the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum'. If symptoms of histoplasmosis infection occur, they will start within 3 to 17 days after exposure; the average is 12–14 days. Most affected individuals have clinically silent manifestations and show no apparent ill effects.
Histoplasmosis is a type of lung infection. It is caused by inhaling Histoplasma capsulatum fungal spores. Spores are found in soil and in the droppings of bats and birds. This fungus mainly grows in the central, southeastern, and mid-Atlantic states. Most cases of histoplasmosis don’t require treatment
an infection caused by inhalation of spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. Most cases are asymptomatic. Individuals who experience symptoms are usually either immunocompromised or have been exposed to a high inoculum. Primary histoplasmosis is characterized by fever, malaise, cough, and lymphadenopathy. Histoplasmosis is an infectious disease caused by inhaling the microscopic spores of the fungus Histoplasma capsulatum. The disease exists in three forms. Acute or primary histoplasmosis causes flulike symptoms. Most people who are infected recover without medical intervention
1 Histoplasmosis is an infection caused by a dimorphic fungus, Histoplasma capsulatum. 2  Risk factors for histoplasmosis include immunocompromised people and association with airborne particles containing the fungi (caves containing bats, bird feces, construction sites). 
Definition of Histoplasmosis. Photomicrograph showing the environmental form of Histoplasma. Histoplasmosis is an infection caused by the fungus Histoplasma. The fungus lives in the environment, particularly in soil that contains large amounts of bird or bat droppings. 
Histoplasmosis is a disease caused by an infection with a fungus known as Histoplasma capsulatum, which is found in the environment, most frequently in association with bird or bat droppings. The infection can cause a lung disease similar to pneumonia in some people. 1 Histoplasmosis is disease caused by an infection with a fungus, Histoplasma capsulatum. 2  The infection results from inhaling airborne spores of the fungus.
Histoplasmosis is an infectious disease caused by a fungus called Histoplasma capsulatum. The infection usually affects the lungs and symptoms can vary greatly. It can sometimes affect other parts of the body, including the eyes, liver, central nervous system, skin, or adrenal glands. 
Histoplasmosis is an infection caused by a fungus, Histoplasma capsulatum. The principal habitat for this fungus is soil enriched by bird droppings and in bat droppings. 