Quinine occurs naturally in the bark of the cinchona tree, though it has also been synthesized in the laboratory. The medicinal properties of the cinchona tree were originally discovered by the Quechua, who are indigenous to Peru and Bolivia; later, the Jesuits were the first to bring cinchona to Europe. Quinine is also used to treat lupus and arthritis. In the past, quinine was frequently prescribed in the US as an off-label treatment for nocturnal leg cramps, but this has become less prevalent due to a Food and Drug Administration statement warning against the practice.
Quinine can cause paralysis if accidentally injected into a nerve. It is extremely toxic in overdose, and the advice of a poisons specialist should be sought immediately. Quinine in some cases can lead to constipation, erectile dysfunction, or diarrhea. Quinine is also used to treat lupus and arthritis. In the past, quinine was frequently prescribed in the US as an off-label treatment for nocturnal leg cramps, but this has become less prevalent due to a Food and Drug Administration statement warning against the practice.
Quinine Dangers. The trouble is that some people are extremely sensitive to quinine’s toxic effects. This drug can cause headache, rash, ringing in the ears, nausea, dizziness and blurred vision. The most serious reactions are rare but can be life threatening. Blood disorders can lead to hemorrhaging. Tonic contains 83 mg. of quinine in a liter. An eight-ounce glass or tonic would only have about 20 mg of quinine, considerably less than the dose that used to be prescribed for leg cramps (200 to 300 mg).
1 Review. Quinine is the generic form of the brand-name drug qualaquin, a medication used to treat uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria, a specific type of malaria. Malaria is a disease caused by parasites that typically enter the body through the bite of a mosquito. It's common in Africa, South America, and Southern Asia. Quinine will not treat other forms of malaria, and should not be taken to prevent malaria.
Cinchonism or quinism is a pathological condition caused by an overdose of quinidine or its natural source, cinchona bark. Quinine is medically used to treat malaria. In much smaller amounts, quinine is an ingredient of tonic drinks, acting as a bittering agent. Cinchonism can occur from therapeutic doses of quinine, either from one or several large doses. 
Quinine is only approved for the treatment of malaria. Tonic water contains quinine but it does not have enough quinine to help with leg cramps. Common side effects associated with quinine can include headache, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, hives, fever, ringing in the ears, vision problems, and bleeding problems. Malaria is a disease caused by parasites that typically enter the body through the bite of a mosquito. It's common in Africa, South America, and Southern Asia. Quinine will not treat other forms of malaria, and should not be taken to prevent malaria.
Link to Problems for Discussion. Quinine poisoning presents a unique toxicological syndrome comprising cardiovascular quinidine-like effects, visual loss, CNS signs and cinchonism (tinnitus, paraesthesiae, ataxia). Treatment of arrhythmias is similar to that for tricyclic antidepressants. In patients with unconsciousness and ECG changes the diagnosis of quinine poisoning is suggested by fixed dilated pupils (see also differential diagnosis of coma, seizures and arrhythmias). Includes maintenance of the airway and ventilation, IV access and fluids.
Quinine poisoning presents a unique toxicological syndrome comprising cardiovascular quinidine-like effects, visual loss, CNS signs and cinchonism (tinnitus, paraesthesiae, ataxia). In patients with unconsciousness and ECG changes the diagnosis of quinine poisoning is suggested by fixed dilated pupils (see also differential diagnosis of coma, seizures and arrhythmias). Includes maintenance of the airway and ventilation, IV access and fluids.