If the battery is in good shape, the charging system is in good shape, and its a typical (gas) car. Not all that long 20 minutes would do it. This example would be, like a light got left on or something. How ever it wouldn't completely charge up system but likely start next time you go to turn key. This would mean 50 Amp Hours. If this battery is completely flat it would need to have 50 Amps charging it for an hour to be full charged if the battery was 100% efficient (which is is not).
Report Abuse. If the battery is a sealed one then it should be OK. A full charge should take about 12-18 hours. If it will not start your car after that then it is dead and you will need a trip to Halfords to replace it. Matthew Myatt · 6 years ago. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depending on your charging system and battery capacity, it could take between 6 and 12 hours. It is better not to let them go flat though. Spend the $15 and buy one those little battery maintainers that trickle charge continuously. I do this with my battery for my motorcycle and my boat
In order to charge a dead car battery, a set of jumper cables and a functional car with a charged battery is required. You will then have the ability to connect the batteries to one another using the jumper cables, and re-charge the dead battery by transferring energy from the functional battery. Allow at least 5 minutes to pass after starting the engine of the car with the charged battery. This will allow the dead battery to build up a charge of its own, although it would take longer to fully charge the battery. 8.
What to do if you have a flat car battery. Discovering that you have a flat car battery is perhaps one of the most frustrating experiences in life, as it never comes at a convenient time. Find out what you can do if your car battery is dead with this quick guide. You can suffer a dead car battery for a whole host of reasons, including cold weather, frequent short journeys, excessive strain and battery age. This is why flat car batteries are the number one reason for call-outs to breakdown services. 1 You'll need a set of Jump Leads and a 'donor' car to do this-but first, see our how to jump start a car guide for some essential safety advice. 2  If you don't have a second car, you can use a power pack to jump start a battery, making it a good idea to keep a power pack in the boot.
If it is not, then you will have to take the battery off the car, so watch the video below to see how easy it is. HOW TO USE A CAR BATTERY CHARGER. Once you have taken off the battery, take it to a safe area with plenty of ventilation and away from kids, pets, naked flames and sparks. * Spanner (usually 10mm or an Adjustable), * Up to 8 hours charge time (overnight), * Possibly some distilled or de-ionised water. HOW TO CHARGE A CAR BATTERY If your car is parked close enough to your house or in a garage, then you can leave the car on the battery whilst it is charging.
In order to recharge your car battery while driving you will need to operate the vehicle over 1,000 RPM’s for a sustained period of time. The longer the battery has been dead, the longer it will take to fully recharge it. However, by driving for at least a half an hour at 1,000 RPM’s, you should charge your battery enough that you will be able to restart the vehicle once you turn it off.
7. Allow at least 5 minutes to pass after starting the engine of the car with the charged battery. This will allow the dead battery to build up a charge of its own, although it would take longer to fully charge the battery. 8. Try to start the engine of the car that contains the dead battery
Look at the top of the battery. It will have a few numbers on it. Maybe e.g. 50Ah. This would mean 50 Amp Hours. If this battery is completely flat it would need to have 50 Amps charging it for an hour to be full charged if the battery was 100% efficient (which is is not).
How to charge a battery. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. A basic charger usually charges at around 2 amps-and so needs 24 hours to deliver the 48 amps needed to fully charge a flat, 48 amp hour battery. But there is a wide range of chargers with different charge rates on the market-from 2 to 10 amps. The higher the charge output, the faster a flat battery is recharged.