The main cause of fraternal and identical twins comes from conception; either two completely separate eggs can be fertilized (fraternal twins) or one fertilized egg can split into two during maturation (identical twins). To start off, let's first talk about fraternal twins, another word for this is dizygotic which means a fraternal twin happens when two separate eggs are fertilized by two separate sperm. These babies can come out because of different reasons such as hyper-ovulation (it is hereditary).
The difference between fraternal and identical twins is that fraternal twins are two separate eggs fertilized by two separate sperm to form two separate embryos and then make two separate babies. Identical twins are formed when one fertilized egg divides into two separate embryos to make two babies. Fraternal, or dizygotic, twins happen when Mom releases two eggs (either at the same or different times during her cycle), and different sperm fertilize each egg. Fraternal twins share up to 50% of their genes, and are no more alike or different than any two siblings would be.
Meaning, having twins in your family will make no difference in the possibility of conceiving identical twins. Identical twins seem to occur randomly throughout the population without rhyme or reason. Fraternal twins (dizygotic) occur when two separate eggs are fertilized by two separate sperm. Two separate babies with no more in common than siblings born at different times are formed. Fraternal twins can be the same sex and/or blood type. Two separate babies with identical DNA are formed. Identical twins are always the same sex and blood type. They almost always share the same placenta but may also have two separate placentas. Depending on when the egg splits usually determines if identical twins will share the same placenta, and/or chorions and amnions.
Identical Twins occur when a single egg is fertilized by a single sperm to form one zygote (monozygotic) but the zygote then divides into two separate embryos. The biological mechanisms that prompt the single fertilized egg to split in two remain a mystery. The two embryos develop into foetuses sharing the same womb. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Fraternal twins can occur when the mother's ovaries release two eggs at the same time instead of one. If the eggs are fertilized, then fraternal twin embryos will develop. Since they came from o … nly one egg and one sperm, their genes will be identical. Fraternal twins are two children born of two eggs and two sperms, each of them developing into a full organism.
If she releases two eggs, which are fertilized by separate sperm, she has fraternal twins. When a single, fertilized egg divides and separates, she has identical or paternal twins. In the case of conjoined twins, a woman only produces a single egg, which does not fully separate after fertilization. 
Identical twins are genetically the same, because they come from the same fertilized egg/sperm cell zygote, which happens to split into two viable zygotes.   Fraternal t … wins, however, come from two different egg/sperm cell zygotes, that are concurrently fertilized and remain viable. Since they came from o … nly one egg and one sperm, their genes will be identical. Fraternal twins are two children born of two eggs and two sperms, each of them developing into a full organism.
Fraternal (Non-identical) twins are formed when two egg cells are fertilized; each egg by a different sperm so that two embryos are formed. Fraternal twins can be of the same or opposite sex and they don't have to look at all alike. The two halves are genetically identical. Identical twins are usually of the same sex. Conjoined (Siamese) twins are formed exactly like identical twins, but during the split, the embryo does not separate completely to form two separate babies and the twins develop attached to one another.
Dizygotic (DZ) or fraternal twins (also referred to as non-identical twins, dissimilar twins, biovular twins, and, informally in the case of females, sororal twins) usually occur when two fertilized eggs are implanted in the uterus wall at the same time. 
Fraternal twins form when she releases two (or more) eggs. Each one is fertilized by a separate sperm. Genetically, fraternal twins are no more alike than siblings (brothers and sisters). Identical twins start off as one fertilized egg. To start off, let's first talk about fraternal twins, another word for this is dizygotic which means a fraternal twin happens when two separate eggs are fertilized by two separate sperm. These babies can come out because of different reasons such as hyper-ovulation (it is hereditary).