Last name origins & meanings: 1  Jewish, Welsh, Scottish, English, French, Portuguese, German, Czech, Slovak (David) dávid And: slovenian from The hebrew personal Name ‘david’, beloved which has been perennially popular Among, jews in honor of The biblical king of this, name the greatest of the early kings Of.  israel 1 The first French family of the name David recorded in Quebec was in Trois-Rivieres rivières around; 1649 their place of origin In france is. 2  Unknown a second, line From, normandy was In Chateau château richer.  by 1662
The name David is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name David is: Beloved. Scottish Meaning: The name David is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name David is: Beloved or friend, adopted from the Hebrew. David was a common name of Scottish kings in the Middle Ages. Welsh Meaning: The name David is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name David is: Beloved or friend, from the Hebrew. Sixth century St David (or Dewi) was patron saint of Wales. Biblical Meaning: The name David is a Biblical
David Name Meaning. The meaning of David is “Beloved”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of David and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
The name David in the Bible. David is the youngest of eight (1 Samuel 16:10-13) or seven (1 Chronicles 2:15) sons of Jesse the Bethlehemite, and the first king of the united Kingdom of Israel. He was not the first king of Israel because that was Saul (1 Samuel 10:1). Saul, however, never managed to make peace in Israel. Popular as this name is nowadays, in the Bible there is only one person named this way. Many names occur more than once, but David's name was never repeated.
These include examples such as Daud, Dewi, and Taffe, through to patronymics Davidge, Davidovich, and Davitashvili. It owes its popularlity to the Hebrew male given name David meaning beloved, which as a given name has always been very popular with both the Jews and the Christians. 
Etymology and meaning of the name David. Most Bible translators and commentator will render the name David as Beloved, but as always with important names, the etymology of the name David is disputed. But we can't help noticing the distinct similarity of this name with the Hebrew root דוד (dwd) that yields דוד (dod), generally meaning beloved: He was not the first king of Israel because that was Saul (1 Samuel 10:1). Saul, however, never managed to make peace in Israel. Popular as this name is nowadays, in the Bible there is only one person named this way. Many names occur more than once, but David's name was never repeated.
Meaning of David. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name David means-Beloved or friend. The Old Testament David killed the giant Goliath in 10th Century BC, then succeeded Saul as King of Israel.. Other origins for the name David include-Hebrew, Israeli, Scottish, Welsh.The name David is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Beloved or friend. The Old Testament David killed the giant Goliath in 10th Century BC, then succeeded Saul as King of Israel. Origin-Hebrew. 
Meanings and history of the name David : | Edit. Meanings of the name David. Swedish: Beloved. American: Beloved. Scottish: Beloved or friend, adopted from the Hebrew. Fact: David was a common name of Scottish kings in the Middle Ages. 
David /dav-id/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DAY-vid. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of David is beloved. Biblical: one of the most remarkable personalities in the Scriptures. David was a shepherd, musician, poet, soldier, statesman, prophet, and king. He wrote about half of the Psalms and very likely composed music for them as well. David is a very popular first name for males (#6 out of 1220, Top 1%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#818 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of David for boys. David reached its top rank of #2 in the U.S. in the 1960s, and is currently at #18.