Costco (COST) shoppers who have been limited for years to American Express credit cards may be able to pluck a new option from their wallets or purses next year after an exclusivity deal between the companies expires. American Express said that Costco pays a significantly lower rate than the overall average it imposes on other retailers as part of the agreement. That arrangement gave the credit card company exclusivity for almost two decades, though Costco also accepts debit cards and cash.
The warehouse company is still working on what credit card or cards it will take at its stores. Up until now, AmEx held the exclusive relationship with Costco, which does not take Visa, Mastercard or Discover. AmEx said Costco's terms to keep the exclusive relationship were not in the credit card company's best interests. View/Post Comments. American Express is everywhere you want to be. Except, very soon, for Costco warehouse clubs. The credit card company announced that it is ending its 16-year exclusive relationship with Costco after the two sides failed to reach terms on a new agreement, the Wall Street Journal is reporting. Thus, as of March 31, 2016, shoppers will no longer be able to use their American Express card at Costco
(TMFCop). Mar 4, 2015 at 5:27PM. Costco will be replacing American Express with co-branded Visa cards from Citi. Costco (NASDAQ: COST) breaking up with American Express (NYSE: AXP) last month wasn't a surprise, but it still raises the question of what took the big-box warehouse operator so long to part ways. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Costco will be replacing American Express with co-branded Visa cards from Citi. Costco (NASDAQ: COST) breaking up with American Express (NYSE: AXP) last month wasn't a surprise, but it still raises the question of what took the big-box warehouse operator so long to part ways.
American Express credit cards will no longer be accepted on that date. That’s a hit to AmEx. Last year, Costco accounted for 8 percent of American Express billed business, 10 percent of its cards in force and 20 percent of its worldwide loans. Citigroup is also expected to take over the existing American Express Costco credit cards. After the announcement last month that Costco was ending its relationship with American Express, “we wanted to reassure everyone that we had another deal in the works,” says David Sherwood, director of finance and investor relations at Costco.
American Express ended a similar agreement with Costco in Canada last year, a spokeswoman said. Costco Wholesale Corp. representatives did not return calls seeking comment from The Associated Press. The Issaquah, Washington, company has 474 locations in the United States and 88 in Canada. American Express said that Costco pays a significantly lower rate than the overall average it imposes on other retailers as part of the agreement. That arrangement gave the credit card company exclusivity for almost two decades, though Costco also accepts debit cards and cash.
Holders of the Costco American Express card will be able to switch to a Citi Visa card that gives extra Costco benefits to cardholders (the details of which will be announced at a later date). [ Business Insider ]. Photo by Mike Mozart. 7 135 Reply Leave a reply. Kinja is in read-only mode. 