Origin of the name Glenn: Derived from the Gaelic gleann (mountain valley, a narrow, secluded valley). It is unclear whether the surname or the given name came first. Var: Glen, Glyn, Glynn. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
In the 19th century, Glenn also became common as a given name in English speaking cultures. In Sweden, Glenn is relatively common first name in the western parts of the country but especially Gothenburg, originally due to a large and influential population of emigrated Scotsmen, especially in the city's early centuries.
Celtic Meaning: The name Glenn is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Glenn is: From the valley. American Meaning: The name Glenn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Glenn is: From the valley. Welsh Meaning: The name Glenn is a Welsh baby name. In Welsh the meaning of the name Glenn is: Dwells in the glen. Gaelic Meaning: The name Glenn is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Glenn is: Derived from the Gaelic 'gleana', meaning valley. Used both as a surname and given name. 
Glenn /glenn/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Glenn) has the meaning glen. Glenn is an alternate form of Glen (Irish, Gaelic): place name. Compare last name Glann. 
Glenn is a surname derived from the Irish/Scottish Gaelic word gleann. In Sweden, Glenn is relatively common first name in the western parts of the country but especially Gothenburg, originally due to a large and influential population of emigrated Scotsmen, especially in the city's early centuries.
Meaning of Glenn. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Glenn means-Derived from the Gaelic gleana, meaning valley. Used both as a surname and given name. Famous bearer: Canadian actor Glenn Ford.. Other origins for the name Glenn include-Gaelic, Irish, Celtic, Welsh.The name Glenn is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Gaelic Name Meaning-Derived from the Gaelic gleana, meaning valley. Used both as a surname and given name
Glen /glen/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Glen) is pronounced glen. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Glen is glen. Place name. A glen is a narrow valley between hills. As a surname, Glen would refer to an ancestor who lived in such a valley. 
American Meaning: The name Glen is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Glen is: From the valley. Gaelic Meaning: The name Glen is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Glen is: Derived from the Gaelic 'gleana', meaning valley. Used both as a surname and given name. Famous bearer: American singer Glen Campbell
[ 1 syll. glen (n), gl-e- nn ] The baby boy name Glenn is sometimes used as a girl name. It is pronounced as GLehN †. Glenn is used predominantly in the English, Irish, and Scottish languages, and it is derived from Celtic origins. The name is of the meaning from the valley. The name Glenna (English) is the female version of Glenn. The name Glyn (English, Irish, and Welsh) and the name Glynn (Welsh) are variants of Glenn. Glenn is an unusual baby name for boys. Its usage peaked in 1962 with 0.350% of baby boys being given the name Glenn.