General Information on Vistaril. Vistaril is used for treating allergic reactions. The generic name of this drug is Hydroxyzine. It falls under a category of drugs referred to as antihistamines. A doctor’s prescription is required to buy Vistaril. Antihistamines like Vistaril work by inhibiting the activity of a naturally occurring chemical known as histamine.
Uses. Hydroxyzine is used to treat itching caused by allergies. It is an antihistamine and works by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine) that your body makes during an allergic reaction. Hydroxyzine may also be used short-term to treat anxiety or to help you feel sleepy/relaxed before and after surgery. Before taking hydroxyzine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to cetirizine; or to levocetirizine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Hydroxyzine (brand names Vistoril, Atarax) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic (drying) and sedative properties that is used to treat allergic reactions. Hydroxyzine is a first-generation antihistamine. It is used primarily as an antihistamine for the treatment of itches and irritations, an antiemetic for the reduction of nausea. The drug is available in two formulations, the pamoate and the dihydrochloride or hydrochloride salts. Generic Atarax 25mg / 10mg.
It also acts as an antihistamine that reduces the natural chemical histamine in the body. Histamine can produce symptoms of sneezing and runny nose, or hives on the skin. Hydroxyzine is used as a sedative to treat anxiety and tension. It is also used together with other medications given for anesthesia. Hydroxyzine may also be used to control nausea and vomiting. Hydroxyzine is also used to treat allergic skin reactions such as hives or contact dermatitis. Hydroxyzine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
Uses. Hydroxyzine is used to treat itching caused by allergies. It is an antihistamine and works by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine) that your body makes during an allergic reaction. Hydroxyzine may also be used short-term to treat anxiety or to help you feel sleepy/relaxed before and after surgery.
In addition, they prevent histamine from binding and stimulating the cells. Hydroxyzine itself has no histamine-like activity. After ingestion, it is converted to its active form. The active form of hydroxyzine is a drug called cetirizine (Zyrtec). Although, both hydroxyzine and cetirizine act as antihistamines, hydroxyzine causes more sedation than cetirizine. The FDA approved hydroxyzine in 1956.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Hydroxyzine Hydrochloride sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. 
DRUG INTERACTIONS. May potentiate CNS depressants (eg, narcotics, non-narcotic analgesics, barbiturates, alcohol); reduce dose of CNS depressants when administered concomitantly. Modify use of meperidine and barbiturates, on an individualized basis, when used in preanesthetic adjunctive therapy. 
HYDROXYZINE (Atarax®, Vistaril®) is an antihistamine. This drug relieves itching and allergic skin reactions; may relieve emotional conditions that result in anxiety and tension; reduces nausea and vomiting; helps make you sleep before surgery or at bedtime, and may help with pain relief after surgery. It is used primarily as an antihistamine for the treatment of itches and irritations, an antiemetic for the reduction of nausea. The drug is available in two formulations, the pamoate and the dihydrochloride or hydrochloride salts. Generic Atarax 25mg / 10mg.