1 The socialization period of kittens normally lasts until 8 weeks of age, which is one reason why 8 weeks is the earliest a kitten can leave its mother. 2  The mother queen’s nursing of her kittens should not end abruptly; weaning can be done safely at around 8 to 10 weeks of age.
Most kittens are fully weaned when they are 8 to 10 weeks old. For their first three to four weeks, kittens rely solely on their mother's milk for nutrition. Cat food is slowly introduced and increased in their diets until they are fully weaned from milk and eating only cat food.
Age of Weaning. Most kittens are fully weaned when they are 8 to 10 weeks old. For their first three to four weeks, kittens rely solely on their mother's milk for nutrition. Cat food is slowly introduced and increased in their diets until they are fully weaned from milk and eating only cat food.
Best Answer: Kittens should stay with mother & littermates at least 8 weeks (which is also the legal minimum in many places that have a law about it), but really 12 weeks is much, much better for their mental & social development, and in some ways may be better for health.
1. Expect to separate the kittens from their mother when they are around 12 weeks old. While most kittens are weaned by 8-10 weeks, most experts recommend leaving kittens with their littermates until 12-13 weeks, so they can be properly socialized.
Kittens are usually weaned at about 6 to 8 weeks and by three months (12 weeks) the mother will leave them on their own. Many, if not all, good cat breeders strongly advise t … hat you should not take a kitten away from its litter until 12-14 weeks of age.
So, from the nursing point of view, 10 weeks of age, or when the kitten has been weaned, is the safest time for a kitten to leave its mother. If the kitten is still nursing at 12 weeks, something is wrong with the breeder’s strategy.
Weaning. It is very important for kittens to remain with mom until weaning is completed. The mother is the sole nutritional source for kittens until they're about 4 weeks of age, although weaning often continues until the cuties are between 8 and 10 weeks, according to the ASPCA.