Czar Floors hardwood parquet is available in many modern patterns as well as classic European styles. Parquet wood tiles are intended for glue-down installation over wood or concrete subfloors. Available in standard 3/4, 3/8 or custom thickness from a variety of wood species. Solid wood (no veneers) construction. If you need a custom pattern-we can make it for you. 
Jupiterimages/Polka Dot/Getty Images. Parquet flooring is a particularly beautiful method of creating a wooden floor, and when cared for with regular polishing, looks warm and richly colored. 
Traditionally, parquet is made from solid pieces of wood cut in a tongue and groove pattern so that they can be fitted together. Because the floor is solid all the way through, it can be sanded down and resurfaced as it degrades with age, and some floors will permit several refinishings before they need to be replaced. Top 10 facts about the world. A parquet floor is a wooden floor made from many pieces of wood fitted together like a mosaic or puzzle, and it can be as large as a ballroom or as small as a bathroom. Frequently, parquet is made from different types of wood with varying grains, to create a unique and eye catching pattern
Installation. What makes parquet so appealing besides its looks is the fact that it is very easy to install. You can actually use it as a floating flooring by placing it over your existing flooring material. If you have some experience in carpentry, then you can probably install the parquet flooring by yourself, but if you are just a regular homeowners who have not even held a hammer your entire life, then it is probably a good idea to hire the services of a good contractor.
If you want to know what is parquet flooring, then you are probably looking into replacing your current flooring material with this very beautiful type of hardwood floor. If you have some experience in carpentry, then you can probably install the parquet flooring by yourself, but if you are just a regular homeowners who have not even held a hammer your entire life, then it is probably a good idea to hire the services of a good contractor.
If you're interested in parquet flooring and you would like to use it in various areas of your home, you might be actually interested in what it's made of. Well, first of all you should know what such flooring is made from dozens of pieces of wood that are fitted together, much like a puzzle or mosaic. In general, parquet is made by cutting solid wood pieces in a groove pattern and tongue, so that eventually they can easily be fitted together. Due to the fact that the floor is quite solid, when it will start to degrade in age, it will be simple to resurface and sand it down.
Popularly associated with Versailles and the Grand Trianon, parquet flooring is a type of wood flooring made from small blocks or strips of wood which are laid to create a regular and geometric pattern. In the early days, parquet flooring was use to cover or replace cold tiles and remains popular to this day. This entry was posted on February 26, 2012 by Jonathan Sapir. Parquet flooring is the name given to a type of flooring which owes the origins of its name to the French word parqueterie and dates back to the mid to late 1600’s.