Print this map. RELATIVE LOCATION: Peru, just to the south of the Equator, is positioned in both the western and southern hemispheres. It's located on the western coast of South America and bordered by Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile and the Pacific Ocean.
Peru’s Location in South America. Peru is located in Western South America, bordering the South Pacific Ocean. The nation’s coastline stretches for about 1,500 miles (2,414 km). Five South American countries share a border with Peru: 1  Ecuador to the north (border length 882 miles). 2  Colombia to the north (1,119 miles). Peru is one of twelve independent countries located in South America (not including French Guiana, which is an overseas region of France). The entire country is located south of the equator -- but only just. The equator runs through Ecuador to the north of Peru, missing Peru’s northernmost point by a small margin.
Peruvian Flag. Map of Peru. GEOGRAPHY. Peru is the third largest country in South America, after Brazil and Argentina. It is made up of a variety of landscapes, from mountains and beaches to deserts and rain forests. Most people live along the coast of the Pacific Ocean, where the capital, Lima, is located. 
Geography. Peru, in western South America, extends for nearly 1,500 mi (2,414 km) along the Pacific Ocean. Colombia and Ecuador are to the north, Brazil and Bolivia to the east, and Chile to the south. Five-sixths the size of Alaska, Peru is divided by the Andes Mountains into three sharply differentiated zones. 
Location Of Machu Picchu. The location of Machupicchu is 112.5 km. northeast of the city of Cusco, at 2,350 meters, within the Machu Picchu Archaeological Park, which comprises a large area of the province of Urubamba in the Cusco Department. 
Ecuador is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of South America. Countries near Ecuador include Colombia, Peru, Panama and Costa Rica. Its biggest cities and towns include Guayaquil, Quito, Cuenca and Santo Domingo. 
Where is Lima, Peru Located? Lima is a city/town with a very large population in the country of Peru which is located in the continent/region of South America. Cities, towns and places near Lima include Rimac, Rímac, Coronel Coronel hacienda And. monserrate
Peru's Geography and Climate. Peru is located in the west of South America, and has borders with Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Bolivia and Chile. It has sovereignty over 1,285,215 km2 of land and 200 nautical miles of the Pacific Ocean, as well as 60 million hectares of the Antarctic. Location