The functions listed in this table provide a number of ways to convert character strings to numeric data. Function. Description. Example. uintN (e.g., uint8). Convert a character to an integer code that represents that character. 'Hi' → 72 105. str2num. Convert a character type to a numeric type. '72 105' → [72 105]. str2double. Similar to str2num, but offers better performance and works with cell arrays of strings.
Note str2num uses the eval function to convert the input argument. Side effects can occur if the string contains calls to functions. Using str2double can avoid some of these side effects. x = str2num('str') converts the string str, which is an ASCII character representation of a numeric value, to numeric representation. str2num also converts string matrices to numeric matrice
Using to_char() with numerical data is very similar to using the function with dates. One common use is to simply convert data from a numerical datatype to type varchar2. For example, returns. When converting numerical data, to_char() can also take a second argument, a format model for the output of the function. 
About ASCII to text converter tool. Convert text into ASCII number format. For example A is 065. Text in a computer is stored as numbers called ASCII numbers with each letter having its own number. Input text to convert to these ASCII numbers. ASCII is short for American Standard Code for Information Interchange. With applications in computers and other devices that use text, ASCII codes represent text. Based on the English alphabet, ASCII is a character-encoding scheme
TO_CHAR (number) converts n to a value of VARCHAR2 datatype, using the optional number format fmt. The value n can be of type NUMBER, BINARY_FLOAT, or BINARY_DOUBLE. If you omit 'nlsparam' or any one of the parameters, then this function uses the default parameter values for your session. Examples. The following statement uses implicit conversion to combine a string and a number into a number: Compare this example with the first example for TO_CHAR (character) . In the next example, the output is blank padded to the left of the currency symbol
Exceptions. [C#, C++] The following code example converts Decimal numbers to Char values (Unicode characters) using the explicit Decimal to Char conversion. [Visual Basic, JScript] No example is available for Visual Basic or JScript. To view a C# or C++ example, click the Language Filter button in the upper-left corner of the page. Converts a Decimal to a Unicode character. [Visual Basic] In Visual Basic, you can use the conversion operators defined by a type, but you cannot define your own. You can use the ToInt16 method instead of the
.NET Framework 1.1. Converts a Decimal to a Unicode character. [Visual Basic] In Visual Basic, you can use the conversion operators defined by a type, but you cannot define your own. You can use the ToInt16 method instead of the Decimal to Char conversion.
CONVERT(). The CONVERT() function is more sophisticated than STR(); it converts between characters, numbers and dates in different formats. It works just as well as STR() for changing integers into character data. A SQL statement using CONVERT() looks like the following: SELECT item_name, CONVERT(CHAR(8), item_quantity) FROM items; In this statement, CONVERT() turns the integer contained in item_quantity into an eight-character data item.
to_char_number ::=. Purpose. TO_CHAR (number) converts n to a value of VARCHAR2 datatype, using the optional number format fmt. The value n can be of type NUMBER, BINARY_FLOAT, or BINARY_DOUBLE. If you omit fmt, then n is converted to a VARCHAR2 value exactly long enough to hold its significant digits. If you omit 'nlsparam' or any one of the parameters, then this function uses the default parameter values for your session. Examples. The following statement uses implicit conversion to combine a string and a number into a number: Compare this example with the first example for TO_CHAR (character) . In the next example, the output is blank padded to the left of the currency symbol