Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium. Some water pills increase the amount of calcium in the body. Taking large amounts of vitamin D along with some water pills might cause to be too much calcium in the body. This could cause serious side effects including kidney problems.
Long-term use of large amounts of vitamin A might cause serious side effects including fatigue, irritability, mental changes, anorexia, stomach discomfort, nausea, vomiting, mild fever, excessive sweating, and many other side effects.
Liver disease: Too much vitamin A might make liver disease worse. Do not take vitamin A if you have liver disease. Malnutrition: In people with severe protein malnutrition, taking vitamin A might result in having too much vitamin A in the body.
It should be noted that preformed vitamin A (such as retinol and other similar compounds) is much more likely to produce side effects, compared to provitamin. A sources (such as beta-carotene).
Most people do not commonly experience side effects with vitamin D, unless too much is taken. Some side effects of taking too much vitamin D include weakness, fatigue, sleepiness, headache, loss of appetite, dry mouth, metallic taste, nausea, vomiting, and others.
Calcipotriene is a drug that is similar to vitamin D. Taking vitamin D along with calcipotriene (Dovonex) might increase the effects and side effects of calcipotriene (Dovonex). Avoid taking vitamin D supplements if you are taking
Too much vitamin A can actually be harmful. Although it is important to get sufficient vitamin A, you should do this by eating well, not by taking supplements. You should especially avoid megadosing (taking very large doses).
1 Taking vitamin A by mouth does not prevent or reduce gastrointestinal side effects of chemotherapy in children. 2  Fetal and early infant death. 3  Taking vitamin A supplements before, during, or after pregnancy does not seem to reduce the risk of fetal or early infant death when taken by malnourished women.
There is growing concern that taking high doses of antioxidant supplements such as vitamin A might do more harm than good. Some research shows that taking high doses of vitamin A supplements might increase the chance of death from all causes and possibly other serious side effects. Vitamin A is LIKELY SAFE for children when taken in the recommended amounts.