Some argue that ownership is a key criterion. A firm becomes multinational only when the headquarter or parent company is effectively owned by nationals of two or more countries. For example, Shell and Unilever, controlled by British and Dutch interests, are good examples. However, by ownership test, very few multinationals are multinational. An international company is multinational if the managers of the parent company are nationals of several countries. Usually, managers of the headquarters are nationals of the home country. This may be a transitional phenomenon. Very few companies pass this test currently.
Advantages of multinational companies. Multinationals create jobs which boosts the local economy and more workers to tax. They bring expertise in that skills of workforce are improved, some may use IT that would never have before or other skills now deemed basic by the western or developing world. Multinationals' profits are not usually kept in the host country. For example the money made and saved by General Motors moving car assembly production to Mexico would still go back to HQ in Michigan. Multinational companies can be environmentally irresponsible. Multinationals have been accused of cutting corners.
What is meant by a multinational corporation (MNC)? Give 2 examples of MNCs that are U.S. based, and 2 that are based elsewhere but operate in the U.S. Multinational Corporation is the corporation of having operations, subsidiaries, or investments in more than one countries. Multinational corporations play an important role in globalization; some argue that a new form of MNC is evolving in response to globalization: the 'globally integrated enterprise'. MNCs have existed since 1602, in which year the first MNC, the Dutch East India Company, was established.
As the name implies, a multinational corporation is a business concern with operations in more than one country. These operations outside the company's home country may be linked to the parent by merger, operated as subsidiaries, or have considerable autonomy. Multinational corporations are thus able to penetrate new markets in a variety of ways, which allow existing concerns in the market to be accessed a varying degree of autonomy and control over operations.
Multinational organisations. A multinational organisation is a company which has its headquarters in one country but has assembly or production facilities in other countries. Coca Cola, Nike and BP are examples of multinationals. Multinationals' profits are not usually kept in the host country. For example the money made and saved by General Motors moving car assembly production to Mexico would still go back to HQ in Michigan. Multinational companies can be environmentally irresponsible. Multinationals have been accused of cutting corners.
A multinational corporation (MNC) or multinational enterprise is an organization that owns or controls production of goods or services in one or more countries other than their home country. A multinational corporation is usually a large corporation which produces or sells goods or services in various countries.
Business. Give three specific examples of multinational corporations in your area. Check on the Internet or with each firm to determine in what countries these firms have operations. (Answer #1). Three multinational corporations in my area are: 1. McDonalds Corp. 2. Starbucks Corporation. 3. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. McDonalds has global operations; this includes operations in the USA, Europe, the Asia/Pacific, the Middle East, Africa, Canada, as well as Latin America.
Robert Scoble via Flickr. Last night there was a huge party at the New York Stock Exchange honoring the top 25 multinational corporations (where 40% of a company's workforce is stationed outside its headquarters). 
Posted on. (Answer #1). Three multinational corporations in my area are: 1. McDonalds Corp. 2. Starbucks Corporation. 3. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. McDonalds has global operations; this includes operations in the USA, Europe, the Asia/Pacific, the Middle East, Africa, Canada, as well as Latin America.
A firm becomes multinational only when the headquarter or parent company is effectively owned by nationals of two or more countries. For example, Shell and Unilever, controlled by British and Dutch interests, are good examples. However, by ownership test, very few multinationals are multinational. 