Fundamental Rights. The Part III of the Constitution of India gives a detailed description on a charter of rights called the Fundamental Rights'. These fundamental rights guarantee civil freedom to all the citizens of India to allow them to live in peace and harmony. These are the basic rights that every Indian citizen has the right to enjoy, irrespective of their caste, creed and religion, place of birth, race, color or gender.
As India is a country of many languages, religions, and cultures, the Constitution provides special measures, in Articles 29 and 30, to protect the rights of the minorities. Any community that has a language and a script of its own has the right to conserve and develop it. As per Article 19 of Part 3 of the Indian constitution, the fundamental rights of people such as freedom of speech and expression, gathering peaceably without arms and forming associations or unions shall not effect the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India but not unity of India.
The Fundamental Rights, embodied in Part III of the Constitution, guarantee civil rights to all Indians, and prevent the State from encroaching on individual liberty while simultaneously placing upon it an obligation to protect the citizens' rights from encroachment by society. These sections are considered vital elements of the constitution, which was developed between 1947 and 1949 by the Constituent Assembly of India. The Fundamental Rights are defined as the basic human rights of all citizens.
Such rightsare called Fundamental Rights. The Constitution guarantees six Fundamental Rights to Indian citizens as follows:(i) Right to equality, (ii) Right to freedom, (iii) Right against exploitation, (iv) Rightto freedom of religion, (v) cultural and educational rights, and (vi) Right toconstitutional remedies. The Constitution guarantees sixfundamental rights to Indian citizens as follows: (i) right to equality, (ii) right tofreedom, (iii) right against exploitation, (iv) right to freedom of religion, (v) culturaland educational rights, and (vi) right to constitutional remedies.
The Constitution of India contains the right to freedom, given in articles 19, 20, 21, 21A and 22, with the view of guaranteeing individual rights that were considered vital by the framers of the constitution. It is a cluster of four main laws. The right to freedom in Article 19 guarantees the following six freedoms: As per Article 19 of Part 3 of the Indian constitution, the fundamental rights of people such as freedom of speech and expression, gathering peaceably without arms and forming associations or unions shall not effect the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India but not unity of India.
The Right Against Exploitation in the Constitution of India. The Rights against Exploitation is provided under Articles 23 and 24 of the Constitution of India. Right to personal liberty is never real if some people are exposed to exploitation by others. Arts. 23 and 24 of the constitution are designed to prevent exploitation of men by men. Thus rights ensured by these two articles may be considered as complimentary to the individual rights secured by Arts.
Right Against Exploitation. The right against exploitation is one of the most vital fundamental rights given by the Indian Constitution. These rights aim at protecting citizens from being subjugated to environmental, domestic and work hazards. Articles 23 and 24 of the Indian Constitution safeguard women and children and others against exploitation of various forms. The first provision in the Article that mentions the Right against exploitation, states the eradication of human trafficking and forced labor (beggar) . Article 23 declares slave trade, prostitution and human trafficking a punishable offence.
Seven fundamental rights were originally provided by the Constitution – right to equality, right to freedom, right against exploitation, right to freedom of religion, cultural and educational rights, right to property and right to constitutional remedies. These sections are considered vital elements of the constitution, which was developed between 1947 and 1949 by the Constituent Assembly of India. The Fundamental Rights are defined as the basic human rights of all citizens.