There are a number of factors that can cause your gums to recede, including: 1  Periodontal diseases. 2  These are bacterial gum infections that destroy gum tissue and supporting bone that hold your teeth in place. 3  Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. 1 In fact, studies show that 30% of the population may be predisposed to gum disease, regardless of how well they care for their teeth. 2  Aggressive tooth brushing. 3  If you brush your teeth too hard or the wrong way, it can cause the enamel on your teeth to wear away and your gums to recede. 4  Insufficient dental care.
Your gums actually attach to the teeth at a lower point than the gum edges that we see. This forms a small space called a sulcus. Food can get trapped in this space and cause a gum infection or gingivitis. Plaque is a thin film of bacteria. It constantly forms on the surface of your teeth. As plaque advances, it hardens and becomes tartar.
Gingivitis is an inflammation of the gums, usually caused by a bacterial infection. If left untreated, it can become a more serious infection known as periodontitis. Gingivitis and periodontitis are major causes of tooth loss in adults, according to the American Dental Association. Food can get trapped in this space and cause a gum infection or gingivitis. Plaque is a thin film of bacteria. It constantly forms on the surface of your teeth. As plaque advances, it hardens and becomes tartar.
1 Gingivitis: this is the earliest stage of gum disease, an inflammation of the gums caused by plaque buildup at the gumline. 2  If daily brushing and flossing do not remove the plaque, it produces toxins (poisons) that can irritate the gum tissue, causing gingivitis. Gingivitis-gums are mildly inflamed, may appear red or swollen and may bleed during brushing. Periodontitis-gums begin to separate and recede from the teeth. This allows plaque to move toward the roots, supporting fibers and bone.
You can develop an infection when plaque extends below the gum line. Left unchecked, gingivitis can cause the gums to separate from the teeth. This can cause injury to the soft tissue and bone supporting the teeth. The tooth may become loose and unstable. If infection progresses, you may ultimately lose your tooth or need a dentist to remove it. Food can get trapped in this space and cause a gum infection or gingivitis. Plaque is a thin film of bacteria. It constantly forms on the surface of your teeth. As plaque advances, it hardens and becomes tartar.
A. A. Gum recession is the process in which the margin of the gum tissue that surrounds the teeth wears away, or pulls back, exposing more of the tooth, or the tooth 's root. When gum recession occurs, pockets, or gaps, form between the teeth and gum line, making it easy for disease-causing bacteria to build up. Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. Your genes. Some people may be more susceptible to gum disease. In fact, studies show that 30% of the population may be predisposed to gum disease, regardless of how well they care for their teeth. Aggressive tooth brushing.
Gums separate from the teeth, forming pockets (spaces between the teeth and gums) that become infected. As the disease progresses, the pockets deepen and more gum tissue and bone are destroyed. Often, this destructive process has very mild symptoms. Eventually, teeth can become loose and may have to be removed. 
There are a number of factors that can cause your gums to recede, including: Periodontal diseases. These are bacterial gum infections that destroy gum tissue and supporting bone that hold your teeth in place. Gum disease is the main cause of gum recession. Your genes. Some people may be more susceptible to gum disease. In fact, studies show that 30% of the population may be predisposed to gum disease, regardless of how well they care for their teeth. Aggressive tooth brushing.
Plaque Build-Up. Plaque that is not removed will eventually cause the gums to separate and recede from the teeth. Once your gums begin to recede, pockets can form between the teeth and gums. Germs can get trapped inside these pockets, attacking the gums and bone supporting the teeth. Plaque will eventually harden into tartar. This is called Gingivitis and is the first stage of gum disease. Gingivitis is usually a painless condition and bleeding gums may be the only symptom. Some other signs may include: swollen, red or tender gums; persistent bad breath or taste; teeth that are loose; and a change in the way your teeth fit when you bite.
1 Advanced Periodontitis: in this final stage of gum disease, the fibers and bone supporting your teeth are destroyed, which can cause your teeth to shift or loosen. 2  This can affect your bite and, if aggressive treatment can't save them, teeth may need to be removed. Gingivitis-gums are mildly inflamed, may appear red or swollen and may bleed during brushing. Periodontitis-gums begin to separate and recede from the teeth. This allows plaque to move toward the roots, supporting fibers and bone.