When confronted with a stubborn scratch or cut, contact the Authorized Corian® retailer from whom you purchased your Corian® solid surface product, or engage any Authorized Retailer to repair your countertop. Contact your Corian® Retailer or DuPont to arrange for professional refinishing. 1 (See the Corian® maintenance sourcing list below for details on abrasive pads and other products.). 2  With the countertop surface still wet, start rubbing the scratched area with the peach-colored side of the cleaning pad. 3  Use a light touch. 4  Pressing too hard may actually leave deeper scratches.
Load your hand sander with the finest grit sandpaper (1200-grit) and spray the Corian countertop with water. Use the sander loaded with your first grit sandpaper and begin to work away the scratches, spraying while you go. Instructions. Clean off the Corian counter top and wipe it down, just to get all of the crumbs and dirt off of the counter. Use the green side of the green and yellow scrubbier pad on the small, minor scratches.
Step 3 – Use Abrasive Pads. Scratches can be removed by using the green side of abrasive pads. Use a light sanding motion, following the direction of the scratch first, and then against the direction of the scratch. Apply more pressure later as needed. Dust off residue and clean the abrasive pad in between sanding. Step 6 – Refinish your Countertop. Using the sponge, create a matte finish by rubbing the entire surface. If you want a gloss finish, use a white polishing paste together with your sander fitted with finishing pads.
1 With the countertop surface still wet, start rubbing the scratched area with the peach-colored side of the cleaning pad. 2  Use a light touch. 3  Pressing too hard may actually leave deeper scratches. 4  Rub over the scratch, using a straight-line motion. 5  Periodically, switch rubbing direction ninety degrees. 1 (See the Corian® maintenance sourcing list below for details on abrasive pads and other products.). 2  With the countertop surface still wet, start rubbing the scratched area with the peach-colored side of the cleaning pad. 3  Use a light touch. 4
Empty and clean your countertop. Before you can completely clean your countertop, make sure there is no food debris, kitchen devices, or other items on the surface, then spray the whole surface with warm, soapy water or use your ammonia-based cleaning formula. Rinse with warm water and allow it to dry fully. Work on the minor scratches first. Use the green, abrasive side of your scrub to rub the minor scratches and lighter blemishes on your countertop. You should use a circular motion to evenly refine the surface. As you work, spray the surface with water once in a while
A Corian countertop, is easy to clean, scratches can be removed, and it is quite durable. When taken care of properly, it will last you a long time. However, if your Corian countertop has accumulated stains and scratches, you can still perform some remedies. You just need to have the tools listed below. Step 6 – Refinish your Countertop. Using the sponge, create a matte finish by rubbing the entire surface. If you want a gloss finish, use a white polishing paste together with your sander fitted with finishing pads.
Countertop Refinishing – Don’t Replace, Refinish! Countertop refinishing is a process of repairing and restoring an existing kitchen counter or bathroom vanity to extend its functional life, without replacement. The process involves the application of a very hard and durable acrylic coating to the existing counter. Countertop refinishing works equally well on kitchen countertops, bathroom vanities, laminate breakfast bars, and even cultured marble sink vanities. A refinished countertop is durable and can extend the useful life of your counters for 10-15 years with basic care and maintenance. Countertop finishes are available in dozens of colors and textures to fit almost any decorating plan.
Wash the entire Corian counter top with just water and a clean towel. Load the sander with the next finest grit sandpaper (1000) and sand the entire area with that, still spraying with water while you sand. Use a large rubbing action to blend the sanding lines. Then use the next lightest (800) and do the same thing. Clean the Corian counter top with water again and then rub the entire area with the yellow side of the green and yellow scrubbier pad. This will give you a matte finish on your Corian countertop. If you want a gloss finish, continue to step 8. Instructions. Clean off the Corian counter top and wipe it down, just to get all of the crumbs and dirt off of the counter. Use the green side of the green and yellow scrubbier pad on the small, minor scratches.
Kitchen counters can be made out of a variety of materials including granite, concrete, tile, wood, and laminates, such as Formica. In addition, relatively new technology has led to the development of engineered or synthetic composite materials like Dupont’s Corian, Silestone, and Swanstone. If you’re considering installation of Corian, Silestone, or another solid surface, also consider the time, cost and repair advantages of countertop refinishing by Miracle Method.
How to Resurface Countertops. Resurfacing an existing countertop is a simple way to update the look of your kitchen or bathroom without having to spend a great deal of money or time. Countertops that look damaged make the rest of the room look damaged as well. 10. Apply a thick, even layer of grout to the entire surface with a small trowel. 11. Press the tiles into the grout until the grout forms a small ridge between the tiles. 1  Once the tiles are in place, remove the excess grout from the tile with your trowel, and wipe the surface clean with a damp rag.