I use this find command example to find out all the executable files, you can also modify it to find all the read only files or files having write permission etc by changing permissions e.g. to find all read only files in current directory: find. –perm 555 Here . or period denotes current directory.
How to search for a string in a selection of files (-exec grep ...). This command will search in the current directory and all sub directories. All files that contain the string will have their path printed to standard output. If you want to just find each file then pass it on for processing use the-q grep option.
In Unix, what is the find command, and how do I use it to search through directories for files? To use the find command, at the Unix prompt, enter: Replace pattern with a filename or matching expression, such as *.txt . (Leave the double quotes in.).
1. find –print and find is same as –print is a default option of find command. 2. find –print0 should be used to avoid any issue with white space in file name or path while forwarding output to xargs, also use xargs -0 along with find –print0.
The find command allows the Unix user to process a set of files and/or directories in a file subtree. You can specify the following: 1  where to search (pathname). 2  what type of file to search for (-type: directories, data files, links). 3  how to process the files (-exec: run a process against a selected file). 4  the name of the file(s) (-name).
While using find command I realized that some time I only need to find files and directories that are new, only in the current directory so I modified the find command as follows. –type option can be used to specifiy search for only file, link or directory and maxdepth specifies how deep find has to search.
The general form of the command is: The find command will begin looking in the starting directory you specify and proceed to search through all accessible subdirectories. You may specify more than one starting directory for searching.
Introduction. The find command allows the Unix user to process a set of files and/or directories in a file subtree. You can specify the following: 1  where to search (pathname). 2  what type of file to search for (-type: directories, data files, links). 3  how to process the files (-exec: run a process against a selected file). 4  the name of the file(s) (-name).