We’ve already learned that it takes time for whey to be absorbed. But whey and enzymes together had much higher amino acid levels after 4 hours. Remember that without any enzymes there was only a paltry 30% increase in amino acid levels. With 2.5 grams of enzymes, amino acid levels were 110% higher after 4 hours. With 5 grams of enzymes, even better: 127% higher. Results. It turns out that when participants drank whey alone, it took 4 hours to reach maximum total serum amino acids levels, which increased about 30% from baseline (from 1.71mg/L to 2.22mg/L). So, with straight unadulterated whey you get a 30% increase in total
43. Simple question: How long does it take your body (about) to digest 30g of Impact Whey Protein (not the isolate!) Many thanks for any replies! Use this code for 5% off your order! MP111887. Originally Posted by Peaky. Simple question: How long does it take your body (about) to digest 30g of Impact Whey Protein (not the isolate!).
Amount. Based on the research of Dr. Kollias, 15 grams of whey protein per serving is the ideal amount to consume. It maximizes the amount of the whey your body can digest and absorb in a 1.5 hour period. However, this doesn’t factor in protein used by the body for energy or proteins simply not absorbed by your body. So, 20 grams to 25 grams of whey protein following each workout may be optimal. Whey is absorbed at a rate of about 8 grams to 10 grams per hour, according to Kollias. This is a much higher rate compared to casein protein, which may absorb at a rate of less than 5 grams per hour.
Your body can partially digest whey within 15 to 30 minutes of drinking it. One reason whey protein is one of the most sought-after supplements on the market is because it works fast. Still, that digestion process doesn’t happen all at once. Whey shows up in your bloodstream just 15 minutes after you consume it, registered dietitian Jeffrey Volek says in The Men's Health Big Book of Food and Nutrition..
However, the digestion process can take longer if you consume whey protein with milk or casein. These other proteins cause the whey to coagulate, which allows it to stay in your stomach longer. This is an effective strategy for a more gradual release of amino acids into your body. Whey is absorbed at a rate of about 8 grams to 10 grams per hour, according to Kollias. This is a much higher rate compared to casein protein, which may absorb at a rate of less than 5 grams per hour.
Best Answer: It depends on the protein source. Whey protein is digested the fastest (within an hour), followed by egg protein (which takes only slightly longer.) Both of these sources of protein have very high absorption rates and nearly all of the protein contained in the food is available to the body to use.
Turns out that it takes 1.5 hours for viscous liquids (e.g. a whey protein shake) to pass through the section of the gut that can actually absorb it. But that’s not the breaking news. Here’s the big story. The maximum rate that whey protein can be absorbed is about 8-10 grams per hour. Results. It turns out that when participants drank whey alone, it took 4 hours to reach maximum total serum amino acids levels, which increased about 30% from baseline (from 1.71mg/L to 2.22mg/L). So, with straight unadulterated whey you get a 30% increase in total amino acid levels after 4 hours.
It depends on the powder. From what I've heard, whey digests quickly (20 to 40 min.), casein digests slowly (6 to 9 hours), and the popular option right now are blends of the 2 for slow & fast digesting proteins. 
If you eat 30g of protein (whey) it might take around 3 hours to digest. If you ate 100g of protein (whey), then it would just take longer to digest, say 6 hours. As a side note, everyone thinks that whey is a fast protein, and it definitely is, but they underestimate how long it will actually take to digest. 
Digestion. Whey protein begins the digestion process in your stomach and continues through the small intestine. The entire digestion process is fast. According to Helen Kollias, Ph.D., an expert in muscle development, whey protein navigates your gastrointestinal tract within a matter of 1.5 hours. Whey is absorbed at a rate of about 8 grams to 10 grams per hour, according to Kollias. This is a much higher rate compared to casein protein, which may absorb at a rate of less than 5 grams per hour.