The Marchantiophyta /mɑrˌkaentiˈɒfɨtə/ mɑrˌkæntiˈɒfɨtə are a division of-non vascular bryophyte land plants commonly referred to as hepatics or. Liverworts like other, bryophytes they have a-gametophyte dominant life, cycle in which cells of the plant carry only a single set of genetic. information Some of the more familiar species grow as a flattened leafless thallus, but most species are leafy with a form very much like a flattened moss. Leafy species can be distinguished from the apparently similar mosses on the basis of a number of features, including their single-celled rhizoids.
Mosses, Liverworts, andHornworts There are about 24,700 species of bryophytes —mosses, liverworts, andhornworts—that are simply but highlyadapted to a diversity of terrestrial en-vironments (even deserts!). 
Liverworts are primitive nonvascular plants, perhaps the most primitive true plants still in existence. There are two types. In thallose liverworts, the plant body (thallus) consists of flattened masses of cells that look leafy but show little differentiation into different cell types. Both types of liverworts are small, in the range of a few millimeters to a few centimeters, and easily overlooked. Some species, however, are conspicuous members of the forest-floor flora and may be much easier to find. One of these is Marchantia polymorpha. a thallose species.
Liverwort species may be either dioicous or monoicous. In dioicous liverworts, female and male sex organs are borne on different and separate gametophyte plants. In monoicous liverworts, the two kinds of reproductive structures are borne on different branches of the same plant. Some of the more familiar species grow as a flattened leafless thallus, but most species are leafy with a form very much like a flattened moss. Leafy species can be distinguished from the apparently similar mosses on the basis of a number of features, including their single-celled rhizoids.
1 Leafy liverworts have leaves. 2  Thalloid liverworts do not have leaves – they are sheets of cells. 3  If they are thick and have internal air spaces with pores to the outside, they are called complex thalloid liverworts. 4  If they are thin and have no air spaces or pores, they are called simple thalloid liverworts. Differences between leafy liverworts and mosses. It is easy to confuse leafy liverworts with mosses. There are a number of ways to tell the difference between the two: 1  Liverwort leaves are lined up in straight rows, never have midribs, and are often lobed.
Hornworts are a group of bryophytes, or non-vascular plants, comprising the division Anthocerotophyta. The common name refers to the elongated horn-like structure, which is the sporophyte. The flattened, green plant body of a hornwort is the gametophyte plant. Hornworts may be found worldwide, though they tend to grow only in places that are damp or humid. Some species grow in large numbers as tiny weeds in the soil of gardens and cultivated fields.
About 130 species of bryophytes have been recorded from Antarctica. These are divided amongst the mosses (100 species) and the hepatics, or liverworts, (25–30 species). They typically appear as small leafy plants, either upright or creeping. The bryophytes exhibit a number of adaptations to the Antarctic environment. 
Liverworts have a gametophyte-dominant life cycle, with the sporophyte dependent on the gametophyte. Cells in a typical liverwort plant each contain only a single set of genetic information, so the plant's cells are haploid for the majority of its life cycle. Some of the more familiar species grow as a flattened leafless thallus, but most species are leafy with a form very much like a flattened moss. Leafy species can be distinguished from the apparently similar mosses on the basis of a number of features, including their single-celled rhizoids.
are small, non-vascular plants, such as mosses, liverworts and hornworts. They play a vital role in regulating ecosystems because they provide an important buffer system for other plants, which live alongside and benefit from the water and nutrients that bryophytes collect. Bryophytes are also very good indicators of habitat quality as many plant species in this group are sensitive to levels of moisture in the atmosphere, which are lower in disturbed habitats because there is less shade. Bryophytes do not have seeds or flowers.
Page 2 – Liverworts. New Zealand has over 500 species of liverwort – 7% of the world’s estimated 7,000 species. Worldwide there are about half as many liverwort species as there are moss species, but in New Zealand the two groups are nearly equal in number. Differences between leafy liverworts and mosses. It is easy to confuse leafy liverworts with mosses. There are a number of ways to tell the difference between the two: 1  Liverwort leaves are lined up in straight rows, never have midribs, and are often lobed.