Hoiho-the noisy penguin. The yellow-eyed penguin (Megadyptes antipodes) is only found in New Zealand is one of the rarest of our penguins. They live and breed around the south-east coast of the South island, on Stewart island and in the sub-antarctic Auckland and Campbell islands. They are known to Maori as Hoiho. Physical characteristics. Standing 65 cm tall and weighing 5 to 6 kg, the yellow-eyed is the fourth largest of the worlds penguins.
The population of yellow-eyed penguins is estimated to be around 2,000 breeding pairs and is centred on the sub-antarctic Auckland and Campbell Islands, however around 500 pairs breed on New Zealand's South Island and another 150 pairs on and around Stewart Island. They live and breed around the south-east coast of the South island, on Stewart island and in the sub-antarctic Auckland and Campbell islands. They are known to Maori as Hoiho. Physical characteristics. Standing 65 cm tall and weighing 5 to 6 kg, the yellow-eyed is the fourth largest of the worlds penguins.
The yellow-eyed penguin is found off the coast of the south island of New Zealand where this species gathers in colonies along the beaches and boulder fields. The yellow-eyed penguin is also found on a few of the islands of the main island including Stewart, Auckland and the Campbell Islands.
Introduction. Yellow-eyed penguins are found along the south-east South Island, on islands off Stewart Island, Stewart Island itself, the Auckland Islands and Campbell Island. Hoiho and chicks. Unique to New Zealand, the hoiho, or yellow-eyed penguin, is thought to be the world's rarest penguin. Population and range. Yellow-eyed penguins are found along the south-east South Island, on islands off Stewart Island, Stewart Island itself, the Auckland Islands and Campbell Island.
Endemic to New Zealand, Yellow-eyed Penguins breed on the east and south coast of the South Island, on and around Stewart Island, the Auckland Islands, and Campbell Islands. Migration and Vagrancy: Resident. Adults can be found near the breeding colonies throughout the year. 
The HoiHo, or the Yellow-eyed Penguin, is native to New Zealand. They breed around the south-east coast of, South Island, and Foveaux Strait. Including Stewart, Auckla … nd, and Campbell Islands, along with the popular tourist site, Otago Peninsula. They are listed as endangered by IUCN Red List. 
Distribution. Yellow-eyed penguins breed on the southeast coast of the South Island, on Stewart Island and adjacent islands, and in the subantarctic on the Auckland and Campbell Islands. On the mainland, yellow-eyed penguins breed in four distinct breeding regions: the Catlins, Otago Peninsula, North Otago and Banks Peninsula. The largest of the penguins breeding on the New Zealand mainland, the yellow-eyed penguin has become a flagship species for nature-based tourism in the southern South Island.
Confidence votes 8.9K. The HoiHo, or the Yellow-eyed Penguin, is native to New Zealand. They breed around the south-east coast of, South Island, and Foveaux Strait. Including Stewart, Auckland, and Campbell Islands, along with the popular tourist site, Otago Peninsula. They are listed as endangered by IUCN Red List. 