tRNA. transfer RNA (ribonucleic acid). aminoacyl-tRNA. transfer RNA to which its specific amino acid has been coupled by its specific aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase. aminoacyl-tRNA binding site. one of two tRNA binding sites on a ribosome that holds the incoming tRNA molecule charged with an amino acid. Called also A site. 
There are three binding sites for tRNAs on the ribosome. In the aminoacyl site (A site), a tRNA charged with an amino acid (aminoacyl-tRNA) is presented to the messenger RNA (mRNA) being translated. The peptidyl site (P site) carries the growing peptide chain attached as a peptidyl-tRNA complex. The exit site (E site) contains empty tRNAs on their way out of the ribosome. During translocation, the peptidyl-tRNA, still bound to the mRNA, moves into the P site and the uncharged tRNA that previously carried the peptide chain moves to the E site, ready to exit the ribosome. The EF-G–GDP complex occupies the A site, which might help drive the translocation reaction.
The interaction of tRNA and mRNA in protein synthesis. A transfer RNA (abbreviated tRNA and archaically referred to as sRNA, for soluble RNA) is an adaptor molecule composed of RNA, typically 76 to 90 nucleotides in length, that serves as the physical link between the mRNA and the amino acid sequence of proteins. The specific nucleotide sequence of an mRNA specifies which amino acids are incorporated into the protein product of the gene from which the mRNA is transcribed, and the role of tRNA is to specify which sequence from the genetic code corresponds to which amino acid.
The initiation complex contains a peptidyl binding site, (P site) and an aminoacyl binding site (A site) . The first tRNA to bind is always the initiator tRNA, tRNAfMET. tRNA binds to the start codon of mRNA, AUG. The first amino acid of the protein is thus methionine. One end of the tRNA contains an anticodon loop which pairs with a mRNA specifying a certain amino acid. The other end of the tRNA has the amino acid attached to the 3' OH group via an ester linkage. tRNA with an attached amino acid is said to be charged.
The ribosome has three active sites: the A site, the P site, and the E site. The A site is the point of entry for the aminoacyl tRNA (except for the first aminoacyl tRNA, which enters at the P site). The P site is where the peptidyl tRNA is formed in the ribosome. The tRNA in the P site minus the amino acid is known to be deacylated. In the final stage of elongation, called translocation, the deacylated tRNA (in the P site) and the dipeptidyl-tRNA (in the A site) along with its corresponding codons move to the E and P sites, respectively, and a new codon moves into the A site.
Peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase (Pth) releases tRNA from peptidyl-tRNA by cleaving the ester bond between the peptide and the tRNA. Genetic analyses using Escherichia coli harbouring temperature-sensitive Pth have identified a number of translation factors involved in peptidyl-tRNA release. 
transfer RNA to which its specific amino acid has been coupled by its specific aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase. aminoacyl-tRNA binding site. one of two tRNA binding sites on a ribosome that holds the incoming tRNA molecule charged with an amino acid. Called also A site. a set of enzymes that couple each of the 20 amino acids to its appropriate tRNA molecule. initiator tRNA. a special methionine tRNA that binds to the initiation codon AUG that forms part of the initiation complex at the start of mRNA translation. peptidyl-tRNA binding site. one of two tRNA binding sites on a ribosome that holds the tRNA that is normally linked to the polypeptide chain