Answer by Ligand. Confidence votes 7.7K. Chromosomes are easiest to see when they are condensed (coiled and supercoiled, so that they become short and fat). They are at their most condensed from late prophase through to early telophase, in either mitosis or meiosis. The tetrad is a structure that only exists during the late stages of Prophase I and early stages of Metaphase I in Mieosis I. Prior to being sent off to different cells, the h … omologous chromosomes clump together in these units called tetrads consisting of 2 chromosomes and 4 chromatids.
Human cells have 23 pairs of chromosomes (22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes), giving a total of 46 per cell. In addition to these, human cells have many hundreds of copies of the mitochondrial genome. Sexually reproducing species have somatic cells (body cells), which are diploid [2n] having two sets of chromosomes (23 pairs in humans with one set of 23 chromosomes from each parent), one set from the mother and one from the father. Gametes, reproductive cells, are haploid [n]: They have one set of chromosomes.
You can see a chromosone at all times, however they are most easily visible during mitosis, when the cell is dividing. During this process the chromosomes condense, making them more easily visible. There is always more than one chromosome in a eukaryotic cell. After cell division and before DNA replication, there is only one molecule of DNA in each chromosome. After DNA replication, there are two DNA molecules in each chromosome; these are separated at the next cell division.
A chromosome is an 'X' shaped gene which contains DNA, found inside living cells. Chromosomes are easily seen using a microscope and are normally invisible most of the time (t … his period of time called 'interphase') but become visible when the cell starts to multiply. There is always more than one chromosome in a eukaryotic cell. After cell division and before DNA replication, there is only one molecule of DNA in each chromosome. After DNA replication, there are two DNA molecules in each chromosome; these are separated at the next cell division.
Sex Chromosomes. The nuclei of human cells contain 22 autosomes and 2 sex chromosomes. In females, the sex chromosomes are the 2 X chromosomes. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. The presence of the Y chromosome is decisive for unleashing the developmental program that leads to a baby boy. 
Chromosomes are easiest to see when they are condensed (coiled and supercoiled, so that they become short and fat). They are at their most condensed from late prophase … through to early telophase, in either mitosis or meiosis. There is always more than one chromosome in a eukaryotic cell. After cell division and before DNA replication, there is only one molecule of DNA in each chromosome. After DNA replication, there are two DNA molecules in each chromosome; these are separated at the next cell division.
In humans we have 22 pairs of autosomes and 1 pair of sex chromosomes (X and Y chromosomes).   2) Classified based on the position of centromere or primary constriction. The either sides of the centromere is referred to as arms (p-petite or short arm; q-quadran or long arm). There is always more than one chromosome in a eukaryotic cell. After cell division and before DNA replication, there is only one molecule of DNA in each chromosome. After DNA replication, there are two DNA molecules in each chromosome; these are separated at the next cell division.
Report Abuse. You can see chromosomes under a light microscope, it is just that the cells have to be in the right stage of the cell cycle (metaphase) in order for the chromosomes to look like the pictures in textbooks. N E · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. In a normal condition, the chromosomes inside a cell are too small to be seen under a light microscope. But when the cells started to divide, chromatins will become highly condense and they for can be seen under
Compaction of the duplicated chromosomes during cell division (mitosis or meiosis) results either in a four-arm structure (pictured to the right) if the centromere is located in the middle of the chromosome or a two-arm structure if the centromere is located near one of the ends. Sexually reproducing species have somatic cells (body cells), which are diploid [2n] having two sets of chromosomes (23 pairs in humans with one set of 23 chromosomes from each parent), one set from the mother and one from the father. Gametes, reproductive cells, are haploid [n]: They have one set of chromosomes.