PTC stands for „Positive Temperature Coefficient“. PTC thermistors are resistors with a positive temperature coefficient, which means that the resistance increases with increasing temperature. PTC thermistors are divided into two groups, based on the materials used, their structure and the manufacturing process. The first group of PTC thermistors is comprised of silistors, which use silicon as the semiconductive material. They are used as PTC temperature sensors for their linear characteristic. The second group is the switching type PTC thermistor. This type of PTC thermistors is widely used in PTC heaters, sensors etc. Polymer PTC thermistors, made of a special plastic, are also in this second group, often used as resettable fuses. The switching type PTC thermistor has a highly nonlinear resistance-temperature curve
The second group is the switching type PTC thermistor. This type of PTC thermistors is widely used in PTC heaters, sensors etc. Polymer PTC thermistors, made of a special plastic, are also in this second group, often used as resettable fuses. Thermal resistors with a positive temperature coefficient are called PTC thermistors (Positive Temperature Coefficient). Thermistor definition A resistor whose resistance changes significantly with a change in temperature.
There are two types of thermistors: Negative Temperature Coefficient (NTC) and Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC). With an NTC thermistor, when the temperature increases, resistance decreases. Conversely, when temperature decreases, resistance increases. This type of thermistor is used the most. In addition to thermistors, several other types of temperature sensors are used. The most common are Resistance Temperature Detectors (RTD) and integrated circuits (IC), such as the LM335 and AD590 types. Which sensor works best for a particular use is based on many factors.
, first-order temperature coefficient of resistance. Thermistors can be classified into two types, depending on the classification of. If is positive, the resistance increases with increasing temperature, and the device is called a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) thermistor, or posistor. If is negative, the resistance decreases with increasing temperature, and the device is called a negative temperature coefficient (NTC) thermistor.
1 Applications for positive temperature coefficient thermistors: 2  Current limiting devices: PTC thermistors can be used as current limiting devices in electronic circuits, where they can be used as an alternative to a fuse. 
Negative Temperature Coefficient (NTC) thermistors exhibit a decrease in electrical resistance when subjected to an increase in body temperature and Positive Temperature Coefficient (PTC) thermistors exhibit an increase in electrical resistance when subjected to an increase in body temperature. 
Current Protection PTC Thermistor Description. Ceramic PTC (positive temperature coefficient) thermistors are used instead of conventional fuses to protect load, such as motors, transformers, or electronic circuit, against overcurrent for circuit protection. 
QTC11. PTC silicon die precision thermistors are used in wire-bonding and specialized reflow-soldering applications. Board attachment by either wire bonding, conductive epoxy, or a combination of both may be used. Solder attachment may be performed using different solder configurations, however it is not recommended. 
The word is a portmanteau of thermal and resistor. Thermistors are widely used as inrush current limiter, temperature sensors (NTC type typically), self-resetting overcurrent protectors, and self-regulating heating elements. If is positive, the resistance increases with increasing temperature, and the device is called a positive temperature coefficient (PTC) thermistor, or posistor. If is negative, the resistance decreases with increasing temperature, and the device is called a negative temperature coefficient (NTC) thermistor.
PTC stands for „Positive Temperature Coefficient“. PTC thermistors are resistors with a positive temperature coefficient, which means that the resistance increases with increasing temperature. PTC thermistors are divided into two groups, based on the materials used, their structure and the manufacturing process. Thermal resistors with a positive temperature coefficient are called PTC thermistors (Positive Temperature Coefficient). Thermistor definition A resistor whose resistance changes significantly with a change in