Goats are becoming ever popular in the Philippines, with people raising them on farms, backyards and ranches. Goat raising started in the 1970’s and demand has been growing ever since. In general supply is unable to meet demand and many are investing in breeding stock from within and outside the Philippines. The Philippine or common goat is a tough but small animal weighing around 25 kilograms when mature. The average daily milk production is approximately 350 grams, with a butterfat content of around 4.6 percent.
The Dadiangas goat is common in Dadiangas (now known as General Santos City), South Cotabato. The breed is a mixture of native, Nubian and Jamnapari goats and some animals may even have some Alpine or Saanen blood. The milk production and butterfat content are marginally higher than native goats and they do best in the drier areas of the country. The optimum potential of goat as one of the main sources of milk and meat has not been fully tapped in the country. The Bureau of Agricultural Statistics of the Department of Agriculture reported that the total number of goats in the country is about 3,355,574.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Dadiangas, Nubian, and Jamnapari goats are available in the Philippines. They are mainly used for dairy products and for trade. Breeding goats depends on the breed of goat and where you live. Dairy goats (Saanen, Oberhasli, Alpine, etc) are able to be bred in the fall. They can take from late Aug … ust to probably December. Other goats, like meat goats can be bred year round, depending on how cool the climate is. Good luck!
Among the goats raised by most Filipino farmers are the Philippine strain (also known as the common goat) and the Dadiangas goat (which originated from General Santos City). Some farmers are also raising exotic breeds, which include Anglo-Nubian, Toggernburg, Saanen, French Alpine, and Boer. Goat's Milk Unknowingly, goats are good source of milk. Research conducted at the MBRLC has shown that the volume of milk produced from a purebred milking doe is about 3-4 liters per day (including the milk fed to the kids), which is more than the national average production of 2 liters.
Dadiangas Goat-This breed--common in Dadiangas, South Cotabato--is a. cross between the native goat and other breeds like Nubian and Jumnapari. Other good milkes include Saanen, Alpine, La Mancha, and Toggenburg. A new, widely adapted meat breed is the Boer Goat from South Africa. 
The breed is a mixture of native, Nubian and Jamnapari goats and some animals may even have some Alpine or Saanen blood. The milk production and butterfat content are marginally higher than native goats and they do best in the dryer areas of the Philippines. The Philippine or common goat is a tough but small animal weighing around 25 kilograms when mature. The average daily milk production is approximately 350 grams, with a butterfat content of around 4.6 percent.
It is a very good idea to have these things in place and be well prepared before actually bringing home any goats. Now that you have decided what type of goats you want to buy and they have a safe, well prepared home waiting for them it is time to go goat shopping! Here are some Do's & Don'ts and tips for buying goats. Don't buy just one goat. Goats are herd animals that need the company of their own kind. 
Dadiangas, Nubian, and Jamnapari goats are available in the  Philippines. They are mainly used for dairy products and for trade. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Common goats in the Philippines are Dadiangas, Nubian and Jamnapari. Common sheep in the Philippines are Katahdin. Sheep are used for more of the meat side of marketing and goats are more milk production