How to Balance Chemical Equations. Two Methods: Traditional balance Algebraic balance. A chemical equation is a written symbolic representation of a chemical reaction. The reactant chemical(s) are given on the left-hand side and the product chemical(s) on the right-hand side. Balance the oxygen atoms. 1  Because you've added coefficients to the molecules on the right side of the equation, the number of oxygen atoms has changed. 2  Add a coefficient of 5 to the oxygen molecule on the left side of the equation. 3  C 3 H 8 + 5 O 2 2 O + 3CO 2. 4  The carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms are balanced.
Just like we want the scale to be balanced on both sides, a chemical equation should also be balanced on both sides. A chemical equation shows us the substances involved in a chemical reaction-the substances that react (reactants) and the substances that are produced (products). However, the number of hydrogen (H) atoms is not balanced on both sides. We need to make use of another coefficient in front of H2. This time, we put a coefficient of 3 in front of H2 to balance the chemical equation. The equation above is now balanced.
1 Change the coefficients (the numbers in front of the compound or molecule) so that the number of atoms of the element is the same on each side of the equation. 2  Remember! 3  To balance an equation, you change the coefficients, not the subscripts in the formulas. 
A chemical equation is the symbolic representation of a chemical reaction in the form of symbols and formulae, wherein the reactant entities are given on the left-hand side and the product entities on the right-hand side. Therefore, the same charge must be present on both sides of the balanced equation. One balances a chemical equation by changing the scalar number for each chemical formula. Simple chemical equations can be balanced by inspection, that is, by trial and error.
Instructions. To balance a chemical equation, enter an equation of a chemical reaction and press the Balance button. The balanced equation will appear above. 1  Use uppercase for the first character in the element and lowercase for the second character. 2  Examples: Fe, Au, Co, Br, C, O, N, F.
As a result, the chemical equation that shows the chemical reaction needs to be balanced. A balanced chemical equation occurs when the number of the atoms involved in the reactants side is equal to the number of atoms in the products side. However, the number of hydrogen (H) atoms is not balanced on both sides. We need to make use of another coefficient in front of H2. This time, we put a coefficient of 3 in front of H2 to balance the chemical equation. The equation above is now balanced.
Likewise, the charge is conserved in a chemical reaction. Therefore, the same charge must be present on both sides of the balanced equation. One balances a chemical equation by changing the scalar number for each chemical formula. Simple chemical equations can be balanced by inspection, that is, by trial and error.
In the chemical equation, to make the number of nitrogen (N) atoms equal on both sides, first, we place a coefficient of 2 in front of NH3. Once we do that, the number of nitrogen (N) atoms on both sides is balanced. However, the number of hydrogen (H) atoms is not balanced on both sides. We need to make use of another coefficient in front of H2. This time, we put a coefficient of 3 in front of H2 to balance the chemical equation. The equation above is now balanced.
A chemical equation is balanced when the number of each kind of element on the left side of the yield sign is equal to the number of each kind of element on the right side. Edit. Share to: Chrishan Silva. To balance a chemical equation, you can change the coefficients (number of molecules). Remember: You cannot change the subscripts. When we balance an equation we change the … number of atoms on one or both sides of the equation by means of simple mathematical calculation.