California’s Rare Milkweeds There are nine other milkweed species native to California. Their potential for habitat restoration efforts is limited because they are either uncommon, have a restricted distribution, or have strict habitat requirements. Several occur only in the Mo-jave and Sonoran Deserts. Page 6: California milkweed (Asclepias californica), © Mark W. Skinner @ USDA-NRCS PLANTS Database; heartleaf milkweed (Asclepias cordifolia), © Keir Morse; woolly milkweed (Asclepias vestita), © Neal Kramer. Page 7: Woolypod milkweed (Asclepias eriocarpa), © Aaron Schusteff.
California Milkweed. Asclepias californica, California milkweed is one of the most beautiful milkweeds in California. It has deep purple flowers and almost white gray fuzzy foliage. It is very drought tolerant even occruing in some high desert areas. It is found mostly in Southern California
A Guide to Common Milkweeds of California Milkweeds are a critical part of the monarch butterfly’s life cycle. To protect monarchs in western North America, the Xerces Soci-ety for Invertebrate Conservation has launched an initiative to lo-cate milkweed stands that serve as breeding areas for monarchs. 3 Fruits Milkweed fruits (“pods”) are also very distinctive though they are variable in size and shape between species. When the fruits are mature, they split open lengthwise, releasing the seeds. Each seed is attached to fluffy hairs that aid in wind dispersal.
Cover photos Top: California milkweed (Asclepias californica), © Brianna Borders, The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation; bottom left: monarch (Danaus plexippus) adult, © Eric Eldredge; bottom right: monarch caterpillar, © Wil-liam M. Ciesla, Forest Health Management International, Bugwood.org. 3 Fruits Milkweed fruits (“pods”) are also very distinctive though they are variable in size and shape between species. When the fruits are mature, they split open lengthwise, releasing the seeds. Each seed is attached to fluffy hairs that aid in wind dispersal.
How to plant milkweed for monarch butterflies. January 4, 2011 | 7:00 am. Dwindling monarch butterfly populations have prompted some gardeners to pepper their landscapes with milkweeds, the various plants in the Asclepiadaceae family on which monarchs lay their eggs. Chubby, zebra-striped monarch caterpillars gorge themselves on the plants' milky alkaloid sap, which makes them poisonous to birds. The question for many isn't whether to grow milkweed, but how -- and which kind.
Milky sap Milkweeds are named for their milky, latex sap, which oozes from the stems and leaves when plants are injured. Milkweeds are not the only plants that have milky sap, but in combina-tion with the unique flower shape, this can help to positively identify a milkweed plant. 3 Fruits Milkweed fruits (“pods”) are also very distinctive though they are variable in size and shape between species. When the fruits are mature, they split open lengthwise, releasing the seeds. Each seed is attached to fluffy hairs that aid in wind dispersal.
MONARCH JOINT VENTURE Partnering across the U.S. to conserve the monarch migration Plant Milkweed for Monarchs Monarchs cannot survive without milkweed. Monarch caterpillars need milkweed plants (Asclepias spp. ) to grow and develop, and female monarch butterflies only lay their eggs on milkweed. With shifting land management practices, we have lost much milkweed from the landscape. Please plant milkweed to support monarch populations, and their incredible migration!
2. © John Anderson, Hedgerow Farms Overview Fifteen species of milkweed are native to California. These drought-tolerant plants play a critical role in supporting a tremendous range of pollinators, and occur in nearly all of the state’s eco-regions. Page 6: California milkweed (Asclepias californica), © Mark W. Skinner @ USDA-NRCS PLANTS Database; heartleaf milkweed (Asclepias cordifolia), © Keir Morse; woolly milkweed (Asclepias vestita), © Neal Kramer. Page 7: Woolypod milkweed (Asclepias eriocarpa), © Aaron Schusteff.
The loveliest of the California natives is showy milkweed (Asclepias speciosa). Its carnation-scented blossoms are two-tiered: Five-fingered pink coronas are backed by petals that blush a rosy mauve. Velvety leaves glow in soft light. Chubby, zebra-striped monarch caterpillars gorge themselves on the plants' milky alkaloid sap, which makes them poisonous to birds. The question for many isn't whether to grow milkweed, but how -- and which kind.