Normally the father or the paternal grandfather of the bride is her wali. In this case the father or paternal grandfather is wali mujbir, if it is her first marriage. In this case, the bride's silence is considered consent. If father and grandfather are deceased another male relative may function as wali. If there is no Muslim relative, a qadi may function as wali. It should not be confused with the different word wāli (والي) which is an administrative title that means magistrate or governor and is still used today in some Muslim countries, such as the former Wali of Swat.
Wali is an Arabic word meaning trusted one.   Wali is a word which has a vast range of meaanings,even oposite meanings too   like it means servant and master both.  …  it also means loved ones, friend. 3 people found this useful. you are the one who took his heart away he loves you, thinks about you every night and day he loves you, look the sm … ile in his eyes through the lonesome eyes.. he's Waiting for the moment when you say.... I love you Feel free to correct me if I am wrong anywhere..
Find Wali meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Wali name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Wali. 
[ syll. wa-li, wal-i ] The baby boy name Wali is pronounced as W AA Liy †. Wali has its origins in the Arabic language. The meaning of the name is 'all-governing'. Wali is irregularly used as a baby boy name. 
In Islam, the phrase ولي الله walī allāh can be used to denote one vested with the authority of God : Only Allah is your Wali and His Messenger and those who believe, those who keep up prayers and pay the poor-rate while they bow. However, the most common meaning of the word is that of a Muslim saint or holy person. It should not be confused with the different word wāli (والي) which is an administrative title that means magistrate or governor and is still used today in some Muslim countries, such as the former Wali of Swat.
The word wali can mean many different things and have several translations. 1  It can be a close friend. 2  It can mean an adviser. 3  It can mean a guardian. But I prefer to take the safest route, that a Wali is mandatory for marriage. Prophet Muhammad (pbuh) said: There is no marriage without a wali. I cannot stress how important this is. I’ve seen several instances where a Muslim woman gets married without a Wali.
Wali is someone who has  Walayah  (authority or guardianship) over somebody else. For example, in fiqh, a father is wali of his children especially for his daughters in marriage. It should not be confused with the different word wāli (والي) which is an administrative title that means magistrate or governor and is still used today in some Muslim countries, such as the former Wali of Swat.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Anotherside. Confidence votes 8. Wali is an Arabic word meaning trusted one. Wali is a word which has a vast range of meaanings,even oposite meanings too like it means servant and master both. it also means loved ones, friend. 
Click on a place to view Wali immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Wali families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Wali ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Wali ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.