Home / Drug Information / Opiate Receptors. Opiate receptors are a group of special proteins found in the brain, spinal cord, and gastrointestinal tract. These receptors connect with certain amino acids that are naturally produced by the body to initiate specific results. Opiate receptors are also affected by external opiates. Opiates affect the opiate receptors in the brain, spinal cord, and gastrointestinal tract in a similar fashion as amino acids in the body. They bind with these receptors and make their way to the brain where they cause changes in the functioning of the brain and its control over systems in the body.
Opioid receptors are a group of inhibitory G protein-coupled receptors with opioids as ligands. The endogenous opioids are dynorphins, enkephalins, endorphins, endomorphins and nociceptin. The opioid receptors are ~40% identical to somatostatin receptors (SSTRs). The receptors were first identified as specific molecules through the use of binding studies, in which opiates that had been labeled with radioisotopes were found to bind to brain membrane homogenates. The first such study was published in 1971, using 3H-levorphanol.
Opiates elicit their powerful effects by activating opiate receptors that are widely distributed throughout the brain and body. Once an opiate reaches the brain, it quickly activates the opiate receptors that are found in many brain regions and produces an effect that correlates with the area of the brain involved. Two important effects produced by opiates, such as morphine, are pleasure (or reward) and pain relief. The brain itself also produces substances known as endorphins that activate the opiate receptors. When a person injects, sniffs, or orally ingests heroin (or morphine), the drug travels quickly to the brain through the bloodstream. Once in the brain, the heroin is rapidly converted to morphine, which then activates opiate receptors located throughout the brain, including within the reward system.
Prescription Drug Abuse. Opioids act by attaching to specific proteins called opioid receptors, which are found in the brain, spinal cord, gastrointestinal tract, and other organs in the body. When these drugs attach to their receptors, they reduce the perception of pain. 
Receptors located in the brain and various organs that bind opiates or opioid substances. Mentioned in: Methadone. specific cell surface receptors within the central and peripheral nervous system, which combine with naturally occurring opioid compounds (e.g. endorphins) to reduce pain and increase euphoria. specific receptor sites for opioids, named for the drugs which have a high binding affinity for them. The main ones are mu (morphine), kappa (opioid agonist-antagonists such as pentazocine) and delta (enkephalin endogenous opioids).
As an example, opiates and endorphins block pain signals by binding to the mu receptor site. The delta receptor in the brain is involved in pain relief, antidepressant effects and physical dependence. Kappa receptors in the brain and spinal cord are linked with sedation, spinal analgesia and pupil constriction. Opiate Receptors. Home » Opiates » Opiate Receptors. Opiate receptors are a type of protein found in the brain, spinal cord and gastrointestinal tract. Opiates activate receptors once they reach the brain. They produce effects that directly correlate with the area of the brain involved
The opiate receptor and other brain receptors are proteins located on the surfaces of nerve cells, or neurons. The brain works through neurons communicating with each other by releasing signaling chemicals called neurotransmitters. These chemicals attach to receptors on nearby neurons the waya key fits a lock. 