So this greatly affects how often a stud dog owner can breed a stud dog to outside bitches. Many bitch owners are refused and must choose a lesser dog as a stud for their bitch. Thus, we limit the possible improvement of our breed by limiting the breeding of our very best dogs. 
Report Abuse. A dog could be bred 2 times a year, however it should not be bred more than once a year. It is recommended to breed every other heat cycle. Be sure you wait until your dog is at least 2 years old prior to breeding. Also, make sure you save up at least $2000 just in case your dog needs a c-section. They simply can not breed 3 or 4 times in one year, impossible. Once every 2 years is acceptable, and easier on the female. Once a year is just a bit to hard on her. Just so you know they only have heat twice a year. If you are planning to breed there is so much to learn.
Owning a stud dog used for breeding is not always the simple operation many people assume it to be. If the circumstances are favorable, a dog and bitch can be left together in a suitable pen, and the mating will take place in due course. If a litter of puppies results, it seems a simple way to earn a stud fee.
1 Since a dog can be bred at any time, unlike bitches, waiting for two years is not a problem, whereas a bitch often has a season just before two years of age and then has to wait until 2.5 or three which sometimes presents problems in trying to time her litters. Bitches. 1  A bitch should be atleast 18 months of age at the time of breeding or the season closest to the second birthday is a good one to start breeding. 2  However in some breeds, one may need to wait one more season before beginning.
The age of the dog is usually a hot topic. I would never breed a dog under the age of 1 1/2. I don't know about a lot of breeders, but service dogs are bred no more than 3 times in a row and then given a break during the next heat. It's a lot of work on the mother dogs. Report Abuse. Depends on the breeder. If they are a Breeder or a puppymill. A true breeder will not breed more than once a year due to love of his dog and her health. If demand increases there will be more than one dame in the kennel.
How often to breed your Bitch. The experts all seem to agree that the least healthy approach for a breeding bitch is to skip heat cycles and keep the bitch unbred. The recommendation it to breed them young, breed on every heat cycle until you are done, then spay them. THAT is the healthiest scenario for your breeding bitch. While Dr. Threlfall and Dr. Hutchinson don't see eye to eye on some issues, this one they completely agree on.
Best Answer: If they are a good breeder they will not breed the female every time she gos into season. A female dog goes into season on the average every 6 months. Then after the litter is born I believe they will go into heat a month after the puppies are born. Report Abuse. Depends on the breeder. If they are a Breeder or a puppymill. A true breeder will not breed more than once a year due to love of his dog and her health. If demand increases there will be more than one dame in the kennel.
· just now. Report Abuse. Every two years but you can only breed a female/male dog when he/she turns two but its best not to breed a dog after its six years old.I was curios about the same thing if you want to know more about the cycle of breeding dogs research.have fun:). Source(s): i research dogs and dog breeds. k9lvr · 5 years ago. You 'can' breed a b itch at every season. You should NOT breed a b itch at every season. The Kennel Club in the UK won't accept litter registrations from puppies taken from the same b itch in a 12 month period.