History. The FAA evolved from the Air Commerce Act of 1926, the federal government's first initiative to regulate civil aviation. In 1938, the Civil Aeronautics Act transferred federal civil aviation responsibilities from the Commerce Department to a new independent agency, the Civil Aeronautics Authority. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 created the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) and gave it broad authority to combat aviation hazards as well broad rulemaking power. In addition, the FAA has sole responsibility for developing and maintaining a common civil-military system of air navigation and air traffic control
Today, the aviation regulations are known as the FARs (Federal Aviation Regulations). The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 was an act of Congress that created the Federal Aviation Agency (later the Federal Aviation Administration or the FAA) and abolished its predecessor, the Civil Aeronautics Administration. In addition, the Act transferred the authority to set aviation regulations from the Civil Aeronautics Board to the FAA. This Act grants the FAA sole responsibility for the nation's civil-military system of air navigation and air traffic control.
Created by the passage of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 as the Federal Aviation Agency, the FAA changed its name when it joined the Department of Transportation in 1967 [source: FAA History ]. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) ensures their safety by regulating the air transportation industry and maintaining a nationwide network of air traffic control systems.
A Brief History of the FAA. The modern age of powered flight began in 1903 when Orville Wright made the first sustained, powered flight on December 17 in a plane he and his brother Wilbur built. The FAA had to certify every new airline, and there were hundreds of applications after deregulation that FAA had to review and approve or disapprove. In the immediate years after the deregulation act, FAA flight standards and other offices focused primarily on the new applicants.
As an agency of the United States Department of Transportation, it has authority to regulate and oversee all aspects of American civil aviation. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 created the organization under the name Federal Aviation Agency. The agency adopted its current name in 1966 when it became a part of the U.S. Department of Transportation. The FAA's roles include: 1  Regulating U.S. commercial space transportation. 2  Regulating air navigation facilities' geometry and flight inspection standards. 3  Encouraging and developing civil aeronautics, including new aviation technology.
The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 did away with the Civil Aeronautics Administration and established the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). In addition, the Act transferred the authority to set aviation regulations from the Civil Aeronautics Board to the FAA. This Act grants the FAA sole responsibility for the nation's civil-military system of air navigation and air traffic control.
Photo courtesy Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)Founded in 1958, the Federal Aviation Agency later became the Federal Aviation Administration in 1967, when it joined the U.S. Department of Transportation. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) ensures their safety by regulating the air transportation industry and maintaining a nationwide network of air traffic control systems.
The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 was an act of the United States Congress, (signed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower), that created the Federal Aviation Agency (later the Federal Aviation Administration or the FAA) and abolished its predecessor, the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA). 
Purpose. The Federal Aviation Act of 1958 created the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) and gave it broad authority to combat aviation hazards as well broad rulemaking power. In addition, the FAA has sole responsibility for developing and maintaining a common civil-military system of air navigation and air traffic control