We are fortunate in my home state of North Carolina to have 301 miles of coastline offering a wide variety of beaches for family vacations. Topsail Beach. Early this summer, our 9 day vacation included 3 days at Topsail Island, NC and 6 days at Carolina Beach, NC. Carolina Beach is 14 miles south of Wilmington on Pleasure Island which also includes Kure Beach and Fort Fisher. As I compare the two vacation experiences, it is important for you to know exactly where we stayed. At Carolina Beach, we stayed oceanfront next door to the Carolina Beach Boardwalk.
Enjoy our video tour designed for our Vacation Rentals and Real Estate Sales departments at Century 21 Action, Inc. The area is comprised of several towns including Topsail Beach, Surf City, North Topsail Beach, Sneads Ferry, Holly Ridge, and Hampstead. Topsail Island offers a multitude of attractions that draw people from any walk of life. 
Situated at the southern end of Topsail Island, off the coast of southeastern North Carolina, the Town of Topsail Beach is the smallest of the three communities located on the 26-mile long island. North Topsail Beach occupies the northernmost section, and Surf City, the largest town on the island, is in the center. The Island is just off US Highway 17, about half-way between Wilmington and Jacksonville.
Bridging Fun and Relaxation. Topsail Island is a 26-mile-long barrier island approximately 30 minutes north of Wilmington and almost exactly between Jacksonville and Wilmington. The island consists of three towns, North Topsail Beach, Surf City and Topsail Beach. There are two ways to get to the island, and both involve crossing bridges
Topsail Island is a 26-mile (41.8 km) long barrier island off the coast of North Carolina, USA just south of Camp Lejeune, the Bogue Banks, and the Outer Banks. It contains the communities of North Topsail Beach, Surf City and Topsail Beach. 
Topsail Island is a narrow island over 25 miles long encompassing Surf City, Topsail, and North Topsail Beach. Topsail Island is 31 miles north of Wilmington, NC and 15 miles south of Camp Lejeune. Carolina Beach is 14 miles south of Wilmington on Pleasure Island which also includes Kure Beach and Fort Fisher. As I compare the two vacation experiences, it is important for you to know exactly where we stayed. At Carolina Beach, we stayed oceanfront next door to the Carolina Beach Boardwalk.
Mandalay Bay is located in the middle of Topsail Island in Surf City. To the north of Surf City is North Topsail Beach and to the south is Topsail Beach. Surf City, NC is the apex of entertainment, shopping, food and fun on Topsail Island, so owners in Mandalay Bay are close to the action! Mandalay Bay is a new community as of 2012. Mandalay Bay is a new subdivision in Surf City, NC. Each home is a semi-detached townhome (no shared walls). The first phase of development offered four homes, each with four bedrooms and three baths on a 20 x 40 lot. The most recent construction offers three bedrooms and three baths on a 16 x 40 lot.
The second park is located .6 miles south of the Surf City traffic light on S. Topsail Drive. It offers a playground, picnic areas & a basketball court. The last one is located approximately 2 miles north of the Surf City traffic light on N. New River Drive. It offers a playground. The one park in North Topsail Beach, located 10 miles north of the Surf city traffic light offers a playground, basketball court, tennis courts, volleyball, horseshoe pits and picnic areas. 
Directions to Treasure Realty. Topsail Island is located in southeast N.C. We are only about a 2 1/2 hour drive from Raleigh and about 2 hours from Myrtle Beach, S.C. Topsail Island is located halfway between Wilmington and Jacksonville, NC (about 25 miles from either city). **If you are renting a property in N. Topsail Beach, you will check-in at our Sneads Ferry office. ** If you are renting a property in Surf City or Topsail Beach, you will check-in at our Surf City office
Find out more about. Topsail Island is easy to reach by car-it is less than 25 miles off of Interstate Highway 40 (see our Topsail Island Map & Directions). View our maps for information on vacation rental locations in Surf City and Topsail Beach, including Serenity Point town homes. 