Vitamin A fortification of staple foods. Vitamin A is important for visual health, immune function and fetal growth and development. Vitamin A deficiency is a public health problem in many parts of the world, particularly Africa and South-East Asia. Fortification of staple foods with vitamin A may be a cost-effective intervention for reducing vitamin A deficiency, especially in settings where improving dietary quality through food variety is not possible.
Two forms of vitamin D are used in fortified foods and dietary supplements: vitamin D2 (ergocalciferol) and vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol). When a food is fortified with vitamin D or a nutritional claim is made, the type of vitamin D must be listed in the ingredient statement. Milk is the No. 1 dietary source of vitamin D, calcium and phosphorus, for Americans 2 years and older. Thus, increasing consumption of vitamin D-fortified dairy foods is a simple strategy to help Americans meet recommended intakes of vitamin D and other important bone-building nutrients.
Since the 1930s, voluntary fortification of milk with vitamin D has been instrumental in the eradication of rickets, a vitamin D deficiency disease that leads to stunted growth, bowed legs and delays in motor development in children. Milk is the No. 1 dietary source of vitamin D, calcium and phosphorus, for Americans 2 years and older. Thus, increasing consumption of vitamin D-fortified dairy foods is a simple strategy to help Americans meet recommended intakes of vitamin D and other important bone-building nutrients.
What Food Fortification Is. Food fortification is the practice of adding essential vitamins and minerals (e.g. iron, vitamin A, folic acid, iodine) to staple foods to improve their nutritional content. Fortification is a safe, effective way to improve public health that has been used around the world since the 1920s. Commonly fortified foods include staple products such as salt, maize flour, wheat flour, sugar, vegetable oil, and rice.
Fortification. A fortified food simply has vitamins, minerals or other nutrients not normally present in the food added to it during processing. For example, milk does not naturally contain vitamin D, but is often fortified with it because vitamin D enhances calcium absorption. Enriching food differs from fortifying. The vitamins eligible for fortification are A, C, D, E, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, B-6, B-12, biotin, pantothenic acid and folate. Other eligible nutrients and minerals are protein, calcium, iron, phosphorus, magnesium, zinc, iodine, copper and potassium.
Vitamin fortified food means that vitamins or minerals have been added to the food in addition to the levels that were originally found before the food was refined. When foods are fortified, they will have more vitamins and minerals after they are refined than they did before being refined. The European Commission has proposed legislation in this area of vitamin and mineral food fortification. The legislation is designed to regulate the way that substances can be added to food and how this is marketed to consumers.
Cereal is often fortified with vitamins in order to increase the nutrient content. Eating a well-balanced diet including foods fortified with vitamins may help to prevent nutrient deficiencies or long-term health complications. The vitamins eligible for fortification are A, C, D, E, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, B-6, B-12, biotin, pantothenic acid and folate. Other eligible nutrients and minerals are protein, calcium, iron, phosphorus, magnesium, zinc, iodine, copper and potassium.
The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, or FAO, lists foods commonly fortified with vitamin A in developed countries, including breakfast cereals, margarine, milk and dairy products. Foods fortified with B vitamins include nutritional yeast and breakfast cereals. 