If the lymph nodes behind the ears are swollen this is a sign that you are suffering from an infection in the ear, throat or eye, and around the scalp. You may also be suffering from an allergic reaction in this area that has heightened your antibody production. 
Earwax, also known by the medical term cerumen /səˈruːmɛn/ , is a yellowish waxy substance secreted in the ear canal of humans and other mammals. It protects the skin of the human ear canal, assists in cleaning and lubrication, and also provides some protection from bacteria, fungi, insects and water. Earwax consists of shed skin cells, hair, and the secretions of the ceruminous and sebaceous glands of the outside ear canal. Major components of earwax are long chain fatty acids, both saturated and unsaturated, alcohols, squalene and cholesterol.
The parotid duct, a long excretory duct, emerges from the anterior border of the gland, superficial to the masseter muscle. The duct pierces the buccinator muscle, then opens into the oral cavity on the inner surface of the cheek, usually opposite the maxillary second molar. Each gland lies posterior to the mandibular ramus and anterior to the mastoid process of temporal bone. The gland is effectively palpated bilaterally. Start anterior to each ear, move to the cheek area, and then inferior to the angle of the mandible.
The type of secretion of the sebaceous glands is referred to as holocrine. In the eyelids, meibomian glands, also called tarsal glands, are a type of sebaceous gland that secrete a special type of sebum into tears. Fordyce spots are ectopic (misplaced) sebaceous glands found usually on the lips, gums and inner cheeks. Sebum, secreted by the sebaceous gland in humans, is primarily composed of triglycerides (~41%), wax esters (~26%), squalene (~12%), and free fatty acids (~16%). The composition of sebum varies across species. Wax esters, like squalene, are unique to sebum and not produced anywhere else in the body.
The parotid gland is a salivary gland, responsible for making saliva. There are two parotid glands, one on each side of the face. They are located in front of the ears and extend to the lower borders of the jawbones. The glands secrete thin saliva which travels into the mouth to aid in chewing and digesting food. If a tumor of the parotid gland is suspected by you or your primary care doctor, you should be seen by an Ear, Nose, and Throat surgeon. A careful history and thorough physical examination will then be carried out by your surgeon.
The parotid gland (often simply parotid) is a major salivary gland in many animals. In humans, the two parotid glands occur under the mouth and in front of both ears. They are the largest of the salivary glands. Each gland lies posterior to the mandibular ramus and anterior to the mastoid process of temporal bone. The gland is effectively palpated bilaterally. Start anterior to each ear, move to the cheek area, and then inferior to the angle of the mandible.
PUP said: These glands are lymph nodes. There are many small glands behind the ear, and in neck region. They act as protective glands. If there is any type of infection the lymph glands are first to react and in doing so they become swollen. They stop the infection from spreading. 
Expert: Dr. D. Love replied 4 years ago. There are a couple of structures behind that ear that may be referred to as a gland. The most common would be a lymph nodes, which is also sometimes referred to as a lymph gland. The body will shunt germs to lymph nodes and the germ can sometimes cause an infection within the lymph node, referred to as lymphadenitis, and may also form an abscess. There also can be an infection of a sebaceous cyst or a gland in the skin. It is also possible to get an infection of a sinus, called the mastoid sinus, but this would be within the bony prominence behind the ear.