The ancient inhabitants of the Iberian peninsula. Today, the word Iberian makes you think about Spain and Portugal, but the word comes from the name of an ancient population that inhabited the southern and eastern Iberian Peninsula in Antiquity. The Iberians are the oldest historically known inhabitants of the Iberian Peninsula. They were non Indo-European, rather short and dark haired. Men wore beards and long hair. Iberian raised cattle, pigs and sheep and cultivated the land.
Content: Hello, I have a question about Iberian DNA. On my dna test, I came up as having 16% Iberian Peninsula, and I am trying to think of where is might come from and how big of a percentage might be expected in other populations. I have tested 2 of my grandparents so far, and they have only 5% and 1% trace amounts of Iberian dna. I don't know who all my grandparents were or where they came from in the early 1800's which would be about 64 individuals, much less who or where they were from in the 1500's or 1400's. And then factor in the fact that you don't even get 50% of all of a parent's DNA.
This article is about an ancient people known today as the Iberians from the Iberian Peninsula. For modern-day Iberians, see Spanish people and Portuguese people. For the ancient Georgians, see Caucasian Iberians. The Phoenicians established their first colony on the Iberian Peninsula in 1100 BC, and probably made contact with Iberians then or shortly thereafter. The Phoenician colony was originally called Gadir. Later, the Roman renamed it Gades (modern Cadiz). cádiz
The Iberians were not a clearly defined culture, ethnic group or political entity. The name is instead a blanket term for a number of peoples belonging to a pre-Roman Iron Age culture inhabiting the eastern and southeastern Iberian peninsula and who have been historically identified as Iberian. The Phoenicians established their first colony on the Iberian Peninsula in 1100 BC, and probably made contact with Iberians then or shortly thereafter. The Phoenician colony was originally called Gadir. Later, the Roman renamed it Gades (modern Cadiz). cádiz
The ancestry of modern Iberians (Spanish and Portuguese) is consistent with the geographical situation of the Iberian Peninsula in the south-west corner of Europe. Y-chromosome analysis had suggested Paleolithic ancestry among populations in the Iberian Peninsula and that Iberia may have played a role in the re-population of western Europe after the last glaciation.
From Gibraltar to the Pyrenees. Discover more about your ethnicity with AncestryDNA. By comparing your genetic signature to the DNA of people from the Iberian Peninsula region, AncestryDNA can give you a clearer picture of your ethnic origins. 
R1b1a2, the most common western European haplogroup, arose 4,000 to 8,000 years ago in southwest Asia and later spread to Europe. Haplogroup composition of the ancient Iberians was very similar to that found in the modern Iberian Peninsula populations, suggesting a long-term genetic continuity since pre-Roman times. Y-chromosome analysis had suggested Paleolithic ancestry among populations in the Iberian Peninsula and that Iberia may have played a role in the re-population of western Europe after the last glaciation.
Background. The hope of this DNA Project is to better understand the ancient history of the Iberian Penninsula and its descedants within the last 10,000 years. The Project Administrator is a history teacher who has done extensive research on the diffent peoples who have had an impact in this peninsula. By using DNA haplogroups and the history of the Iberian Peninsula it is possible to get the origin of an ancient forefather or ancient foremother. Here is a brief history of the Iberian Penninsula, which illustrates a few of the many peoples who have left descedants: The Iberian Peninsula, or Iberia, is located in the extreme southwest of Europe. It has been inhabited for at least 500,000 years, first by Neanderthals and then by Cro-Magnon people (modern humans).