Posted by Staff Writer in Soapstone. Soapstone is a natural and durable countertop choice. For centuries, it has been used to craft countertops, hearths, and stoves. Soapstone forms from mineral deposits and is one of the softest, most non-porous, natural stones on earth. The natural qualities of soapstone make it a popular choice for countertops; however, a few disadvantages should be considered before making a final selection.
The price range is broad, from roughly $50 to $200 per linear foot. Stone. Granite is the most popular of the stone countertop types, but marble, soapstone, and others are also available. Many colors and patterns are available, and the price is in the range of $15 to $40 per linear foot of countertop. Most consist of a core material with a surface veneer applied. Formica is one common brand name.
Granite countertops usually cost about $50 to $100 per square foot, including installation. If you have 30 square feet of counter space-which is fairly standard-the total cost would be $1,500 to $3,000. 
At the second tier, you can expect to pay $60 - $70 per linear foot. You'll have some concerns about chipping and denting, but less so than at the lower tier. At the highest tier, soapstone bathroom countertops are priced at $70 - $80 per linear foot, and their durability should not be an issue. For the first tier of soapstone quality, you can expect to pay $50 – 60 per linear foot. This variety will be of lower quality and may scratch or chip more easily, but it will still have a beautiful appearance—and there are some who would argue that soapstone improves with time and wear.
Granite: Price is compared at $75 to $200 per linear foot installed. Granite is a timeless countertop surface. Not only does the product stand the test of time, granite slabs greatly increase the value of your home. Therefore, granite is the most expensive of all countertop types. Composite Stone: Price is compared at $110 to $250 per linear foot installed. Now, composite stone material is the granite rival. The stone is a synthetic composite made from 90% quartz particles and 10% acrylic or epoxy binder. It is even difficult to decipher between the looks of real stone, composite, and granite.
Soapstone vs. Other Countertop Materials. Priced at $55 per linear foot, soapstone is one of the most cost effective countertop materials. Lifetime maintenance of soapstone is inexpensive, requiring only sandpaper and mineral oil. Other countertop materials including, granite, concrete, stainless steel, and solid surfaces start at price points greater than $100 per linear foot. Soapstone forms from mineral deposits and is one of the softest, most non-porous, natural stones on earth. The natural qualities of soapstone make it a popular choice for countertops; however, a few disadvantages should be considered before making a final selection.
COUNTERTOPS. The price is right. Laminate is inexpensive and usually costs a lot less than most other materials. It's about $10 to $40 a square foot installed. Look at the largest samples available and try them out in your kitchen.
This all depends on the type of soapstone slab the homeowner chooses. Typically, soapstone can start at approximately $25 per square foot, and of course, the cost increases from there to as much as $95 per square foot for the thicker slabs of soapstone. The remainder of the cost of the soapstone is the actual installation, which can double the overall cost. Budget Conscious Soapstone. One option that saves the cost of a sub-base on your cabinet is purchasing 1-1/4-inch soapstone. This is not as heavy as the thicker stone. However, it is substantial enough that you will not need a sub-base on your cabinet for installation.
Today you’ll still see soapstone tables and counters being used in scientific labs across the country because they are just this durable. A fabricated countertop usually runs anywhere from $70 up to $120 per foot for the slab of stone. This does not include the installation costs, which can vary from one installer to the next.
Granite Countertop Prices. The price of granite rivals marble and so does its natural splendor. This is a high-end countertop that can take a kitchen from good to great. Granite countertops: $30 to $155 per square foot. Stainless steel countertops: $30 to $90 per square foot. Solid Surface Counter Prices. Tough acrylic is the basis for these innovative and durable countertops. Corian and Swanstone are leading brands and offer the most colors and patterns, many of which are modeled on the patterns found in granite or marble.