Chain e-mail claims that when baboons congregate, it's called a 'congress.'. By C. Eugene Emery Jr. on Monday, January 2nd, 2012 at 9:33 a.m. We are all familiar with a herd of cows, a flock of chickens, a school of fish and a gaggle of geese, the e-mail begins. Our ruling. The e-mail claiming that a group of baboons is known as a congress states the claim as fact and tickles our sense of irony at a time when the U.S. Congress' approval rating is about 16 percent or lower. But the correct term is a troop..
None of the definitions for congress referred to baboons, apes, monkeys or primates. A congress can be a meeting or session of any group, but the e-mail makes it clear that this is a specific term for a gathering of baboons. Our ruling. The e-mail claiming that a group of baboons is known as a congress states the claim as fact and tickles our sense of irony at a time when the U.S. Congress' approval rating is about 16 percent or lower. But the correct term is a troop..
Love theatre, art, travel, warm weather, dogs, sewing, geometry, and Cardinals baseball. It is a myth that a group of baboons is called a Congress.. There was a political email chain that circulated a few years ago that made this claim. A congress can be a meeting or session of any group. However, according to most scientific-related sites, a group of baboons is actually called a Troop.
It is a myth that a group of baboons is called a Congress.. There  was a political email chain that circulated a few years ago that  made this claim. A congress can be a … meeting or session of  any group. However, according to most scientific-related  sites, a group of baboons is actually called a  Troop. Baboons........ Which are also referred to as a troop of baboons. Baboons are not and never have been known as a congress. This is a misconception started by a joke chain e … mail that went around a few years back.
A group of baboons can be called a congress. Sorry, this is a fallacy started by a chain email a few years ago, the correct collective noun for Baboons is a troop. + 38 others found this useful. Baboons........ Which are also referred to as a troop of baboons. Baboons are not and never have been known as a congress. This is a misconception started by a joke chain e … mail that went around a few years back.
First stop: Dictionary.com. None of the definitions for congress referred to baboons, apes, monkeys or primates. A congress can be a meeting or session of any group, but the e-mail makes it clear that this is a specific term for a gathering of baboons. Merriam-Webster.com also produced negative results. Our ruling. The e-mail claiming that a group of baboons is known as a congress states the claim as fact and tickles our sense of irony at a time when the U.S. Congress' approval rating is about 16 percent or lower. But the correct term is a troop..
Both said the correct term for a group of baboons is a troop.. I have never heard the term congress used for a group of baboons!. Swedell said in an e-mail. I would prefer to be governed by baboons than the current Congress, however!!! Our ruling. The e-mail claiming that a group of baboons is known as a congress states the claim as fact and tickles our sense of irony at a time when the U.S. Congress' approval rating is about 16 percent or lower. But the correct term is a troop..
A group of baboons is usually called a “troop” and a large number of baboons is sometimes also called a “tribe.” Politifact (Rhode Island) rated “a congress of baboons” as “PANTS ON FIRE” (absolutely not true) in December 2011. However, “A Congress of Baboons” was a headline in the Kansas City (MO) Star in 1893. British Comedy Guide. - A group of baboons is called a “Congress”, although the word “Flange” (which originated from the ‘Gerald the Talking Gorilla’ sketch in Not the Nine O’Clock News) is beginning to replace it and is now even being used by some academics as the official word.