One semester hour equals 1.5 quarter hours or 1 quarter hour equals .6667 semester hours. To convert semester hours into quarter hours divide the quarter credit hours by 1.5 or multiply the semester credit hours by .6667. To convert quarter hours into semester hours multiply the semester hours by 1.5. Typical graduation requirements are 192 quarter hours under a quarter system and 128 semester units under a semester system. 1  192 quarter credits divided by 1.5 = 128 semester credits. Graduation requirements in terms of amount of study are typically the same for a quarter system and a semester system. To graduate from PUC in four years without summer school attendance, you will need to average 16 hours each quarter.
Converting and equating credits. Converting quarter credits to semester credits is easy for the sake of making approximations, but it is advised that you speak with an admissions officer to verify your calculations. Semester credits are worth 1.5 times more than quarter credits. Thus, a 120-credit-hour bachelor degree under the conventional system is equal to a 180-credit-hour degree under the quarter credit system. Approximate degree lengths: 
Colleges and universities that operate on a semester system award semester credit. The UW awards quarter credit. To convert semester to quarter credits, multiply by 1.5. For example, a student who earns 30 credits in an institution on a semester calendar would have earned 45 quarter credits at the UW.
Quarter Hour Conversion. Use the conversion table below to convert between quarter and semester hours Click here to use the the Quarter-Semester Conversion Calculator. Quarter credits earned are multiplied by 2/3 and rounded up to convert them to semester credits earned. This calculation is donein the chart below. It shows quarter hours earned on the left and the resulting semester hours earned on the right
Typically a quarter or semester refers to the number of weeks a course runs. There are usually four quarters in a school calendar year versus two semesters in a school calendar year. American College of Education terms run for 5 weeks. Most courses taken during a term were worth 4 quarter credits. With the conversion to semester credits, the course term will remain the same – 5 weeks – but the rigor and work load of the 4 quarter credit course increased and will now carry 3 semester credits. Credit Conversion: The process by which American College of Education moved from the quarter credit system to the semester credit system. Quarter credits that were worth 4 credits were converted to 2.67 semester credits, and courses offered under the semester credit system are worth 3 semester credits.
Step 3. Determine the total number of semester hours you want to convert. For example, say you have 30 semester hours, typically what a full-time student would complete in a year. Multiply by 1.5. For example, 30 (semester hours) X 1.5. The answer to the equation converts the number of semester hours into quarter hours
After converting the quarter credits to semester credits and calculating how many semester credits are needed, a student may be required to take one or more bridge courses if there is a deficit of credits from quarter to semester credit conversion. Credit Conversion: The process by which American College of Education moved from the quarter credit system to the semester credit system. Quarter credits that were worth 4 credits were converted to 2.67 semester credits, and courses offered under the semester credit system are worth 3 semester credits.
6/3/2013 9:07:45 AM #. Is this conversion for semester credits or quarter credits? For example, typically a 4.5/5.0 credit quarter length class is equal to a 3 credit semester length class. A quarter is 10-11 weeks and a semester is 16 weeks. 