It is important to get a roofing inspector experienced with inspections in your specific locale and for your specific type of roof. The cost for your roof inspection may vary based on the expertise needed for a given type of roof. A roof inspection may be a valuable thing to have performed every few years throughout the lifespan of your roof. A roof inspection is a way of determining the level of wear and tear on a roof, how much life it has left in it, and if there is a need for repair currently or soon in the future.
20 x 2 = 40 rtm less our Standard 30 rtm that is included in our Standard Roof Inspection Service Fee = 10 rtm extra outside of the Standard 30 rtm x additional Travel Fee of $2.00 per rtm = an additional $20.00 is added to our Standard Roof Inspection Service Fee listed above. Additional Fee for Extra Time: If additional time is required to perform our Roof Inspection Service, our rate for any additional time over the first 30 minutes, billed at one quarter hour increments, is:
Standard Amount of Time-for us to perform our Roof Inspection Service and to hand write our Roof Inspection Report is about 30 minutes or less. If additional time is required to perform our Roof Inspection Service our rate is $160.00 per man-hour for any time over the first 30 minutes billed at quarter hour increments. Additional Fee for Extra Time: If additional time is required to perform our Roof Inspection Service, our rate for any additional time over the first 30 minutes, billed at one quarter hour increments, is:
but it s important to know how much a roof inspection will cost so you won t be surprised by the bill let s start with some factors that can affect the cost of a roof inspection in 2013 the first is the type of property and roof single family residential properties tend to be the least expensive to inspect because they re small and typically have simple roofs if the roof does need repairs the roofer can offer a free estimate make sure to get estimates from several roofers to get a broad idea of the fairest price commercial properties can be more expensive with inspections costing between $ 300 and $ 500 this is due to the increased size and complexity of the job
Most roof inspectors charge a flat fee for their services. Additional fees might be charged if the roof has a steep slope or multiple levels, is large or is more than 50 years old. Roofs made of specialty materials such as slate might also cost extra to inspect. Hiring a roof inspector allows homeowners to have the information they need about the condition of the roof of their home or one they are considering for purchase.
Cost to Hire a Roof Inspector. The roof of a home is an essential part of the building's structure. Not only does the roof protect everything inside the home, but it also helps protect the walls and foundation from the ravages of rain, ice, snow and wind. Hiring a roof inspector allows homeowners to have the information they need about the condition of the roof of their home or one they are considering for purchase.
However, it will not typically come with a roof certification, something you can get with a full-fledged roof inspection. In 2013, the average cost for a home inspection is about $300 to $500. You can decide how much of that covers the roof. The cost of a full-fledged roof inspection in 2013 for an average-size home is about $300. So you hire it out. Here's what you can expect to pay for a roof inspection in 2013. Three Levels of Roof Inspection Cost. Many roof inspections cost nothing. This is because they're performed by roofing contractors interested in working on your roof.
When hiring a roof inspector, you have two major options. The first is to hire a roofing company. Often, professional roofers will provide free estimates. The downside is that they may exaggerate problems with your roof in order to provide themselves with a little job security. Your other option is to hire a professional roof inspection company, which might charge $200 to $400. You should receive a full report on all aspects of your roof, from the shingles and trusses to the vent caps and drip edges, including any problems or potential problems that might arise. In the case of roof inspection, this means climbing on top of your house once every spring and fall and checking for signs of damage. And for those homeowners who suffer from acrophobia or a fear of heights a roof inspection done from the ground with a pair of binoculars is better than nothing.
Most roof inspectors will have a flat rate that they charge for a standard inspection, but that rate may fluctuate depending on the size of your home, slope of your roof, or type of roof you have. Infrared roof inspections are used when an inspector cannot access the roof. A roof inspection may be a valuable thing to have performed every few years throughout the lifespan of your roof. A roof inspection is a way of determining the level of wear and tear on a roof, how much life it has left in it, and if there is a need for repair currently or soon in the future.
The cost to hire a roof inspector depends on a few key factors, but the average roof inspection cost is $617 with most roofing inspections ranging in price from $488 to $746. National Hire a Roof Inspector Costs. Hiring a roof inspector allows homeowners to have the information they need about the condition of the roof of their home or one they are considering for purchase.