We’re thrilled to introduce our new rewards programme-UCount Rewards. It’s our way of thanking you for banking with Standard Bank and showing that you count. With UCount Rewards, all you have to do is swipe your Standard Bank personal debit, cheque or credit card to collect points on everything you buy, no matter where you shop. *Terms and conditions apply (available on www.standardbank.co.za/UCount) **The number of litres will be calculated using the weighted average fuel price. The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited (Reg. No. 1962/000738/06). Authorised financial services provider.
The rewards vary from up to 10% in points on grocery purchases at participating stores, and up to 1.5% in points on all other general purchases. The program also has fuel rewards where getting fuel from Caltex forecourts returns R1 in points per litre of petrol purchased. The uCount points, like eBucks, work on an exchange rate of 10 points to R1.
Collect rewards points every time you use your Standard Bank personal card – and get up to 1.5%* back in rewards points on your purchases! You’ll collect rewards points when you use your Standard Bank personal debit, cheque or credit card to pay for your everyday purchases** – no matter where you shop or what you buy! The fixed cycle runs from the 16th of the month to the 15th of the following month. Rewards tiering and how it works Based on your monthly banking activity and the number of Standard Bank products and services you use every month, you automatically get tiering points which put you into a particular rewards tier.
Standard Bank has launched uCount, a new rewards program for clients to earn cash back each month by transacting with the bank. The uCount points, like eBucks, work on an exchange rate of 10 points to R1.
Standard Bank Ucount Rewards and Send Money. For you guys who are Standard Bank customers, how do you rate the newly introduced rewards program, Ucount I feel its a load of b@llsh%t: 1. The point allocation system is so complicated that even the call center staff don't even understand it. 2. Senior Member. For you guys who are Standard Bank customers, how do you rate the newly introduced rewards program, Ucount I feel its a load of b@llsh%t: 1. The point allocation system is so complicated that even the call center staff don't even understand it
Simply use your Standard Bank personal debit, cheque or credit card to pay and your rewards points will be automatically credited to your rewards account once a month. Collecting rewards points from Participating Grocery Retailers is limited to 20% of your total monthly card spend. The fixed cycle runs from the 16th of the month to the 15th of the following month. Rewards tiering and how it works Based on your monthly banking activity and the number of Standard Bank products and services you use every month, you automatically get tiering points which put you into a particular rewards tier.
While structurally similar to the eBucks rewards, uCount does differ. The program offers rewards for grocery purchases at selected stores, but offers no return for airtime purchases like FNB’s eBucks. Both programs are capped, with uCount allowing customers to reap a maximum of R15,000 in rewards for tier-4 customers, while tier 1 customers can get back a maximum of R2,000. The uCount points, like eBucks, work on an exchange rate of 10 points to R1.
Get up to 1.5%* back in rewards points every time you swipe your card, no matter where you shop. Get R1 per litre** back in rewards points when you buy fuel at participating Caltex forecourts until 31 December 2013. Thereafter, you will collect 20 cents per litre back in rewards points. *Terms and conditions apply (available on www.standardbank.co.za/UCount) **The number of litres will be calculated using the weighted average fuel price. The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited (Reg. No. 1962/000738/06). Authorised financial services provider.