Spider Rigging Basics. Most spider riggers start by using a variety of baits or lures rigged at different depths. For example, when using six poles, four might be rigged with jigs in different colors and sizes, and the other two with minnows. Two baits might be set 6 feet deep, two at 8, and two at 10. 
Dishing out reflections. Deep-trolling rig: spoon like the one at top, rigged on mono or wire behind planer. Tradition has it that an angler was eating his lunch when he accidentally dropped a spoon overboard, and saw a northern pike strike it with gusto. With so many new trolling lures on the market these days, it’s worth noting that spoons work as well today as they did 50 years ago. It’s hard to beat a properly presented spoon for kingfish, blackfin tuna, Spanish mackerel and bluefish. Even dolphin and the occasional billfish will take a crack at them.
Florida Sportsman member Split Shot ties on feathers to the end of this spoons to make them a little more enticing. When it comes to inshore fishing lures, the gold spoon is tried and true. Of course, just as with any fishing lure, the spoon has a time and a place for use that is most suitable for it to be effective. Florida Sportsman member pjstevko questions the quality of his gold spoon when fishing with it over and over again for redfish yields poor results. 
Start with the lure just touching bottom, with your rod tip 6 inches off the water so you know where bottom is when jigging. As soon as it touches bottom, snap it up 5 feet. The timing is critical. There are subtle things you have to learn, like letting the spoon wobble its way down on a semi-taut line. 
When using spoons for walleyes, most anglers assume the method is vertically fishing heavy jigging spoons in deep water. With apologies to the heavy-metal brigade, when it comes to trolling spoons, thin is in. Obviously, any weighting system can be used to take spoons down to desired depths, though some form of diving system–be it a three-way crankbait rig or a directional diving planer–seems to be the method of choice when trolling lightweight flutterspoons for walleyes on the Great Lakes. 1  Share on Facebook.
These are IL400 Ilanders rigged for high speed (10-20 Knots) Wahoo fishing. They feature a skirt on the inside of the Ilander with a double hookset. The Hook Material is your choice of metal or Stainless Steel. Available in a array or assorted colors. Rigged with a 3407SS hook and 125 lb mono leader. Deadly on all fish at all speeds. Tuna Treat™ can be fished with a strip rig, ballyhoo, Boone® Birds™ or as rigged.
Of course, with these larger depth-control devices, you usually have to get the spoon well away from the device to draw many strikes—12 feet is the minimum, and some guys go as much as 100 feet in clear water. You’ll often rig spoons with wire. When you do, be sure to hang them on a reinforced wire loop, which is made by weaving the wire through the spoon’s eye or ring twice before forming the haywire twist. With so many new trolling lures on the market these days, it’s worth noting that spoons work as well today as they did 50 years ago. It’s hard to beat a properly presented spoon for kingfish, blackfin tuna, Spanish mackerel and bluefish. Even dolphin and the occasional billfish will take a crack at them.
Aaron Martens went completely away from bags a few years ago and makes his storage very modular and small. He said it has made him a much more efficient angler at the top levels of bass fishing. He uses several varieties of Planos down to boxes 2 inches by 4 inches. 
No additional weights are used or, at most, a small 1/8- to 1/2-oz. keel-type sinker 6 feet up the line from the spoon. The spoon is let out behind your moving boat 50 to 150 feet, and the troll is begun. The Jet Diver makes it particularly easy to know exactly how far out your spoon is behind the boat. . . .trolling spoons. The degree of success you'll attain by trolling spoons for chinook or coho salmon will depend heavily on understanding the differences in habits and preferences between the two species and a knowledge of how tides and currents affect saltwater fish and fishing conditions.
Knowing how to rig a fishing boat the right way depends on the type of fishing that it will be used for, but the same materials can be used in equipping any vessel. Following are easy steps for setting up a fishing boat. 1  Buy rods, reels, and lines appropriate for the type of fishing that the boat will be doing. Lock them up somewhere, as all of the items that make for a well rigged fishing boat are prone to theft, especially when they are lying out in the open in a boat, whether the boat is in a yard or docked at a marina. Facebook Twitter Stumble Google+ Save.