Zinc deficiency results in impaired functioning of the special senses, and night blindness is often due to a zinc deficiency. The loss of the sense of taste and/or smell is a common complaint in the elderly.
1 Sickle cell disease. 2  Taking zinc by mouth seems to help reduce symptoms of sickle cell disease in people with zinc deficiency. 3  Taking zinc supplements also appears to decrease the risk for complications and infections related to s
Zinc Deficiency and Crohn’s Disease. The most common cause of zinc deficiency in people suffering from Crohn’s disease is diarrhea. The increased bowel movement caused by diarrhea empties the contents of the gastrointestinal tract before macronutrients and micronutrients can be absorbed.
Zinc deficiency is caused by inadequate intake or absorption, increased zinc excretion, or increased bodily need for zinc. Zinc deficiency symptoms include growth and development problems, hair loss, diarrhea, impotence, eye and skin conditions, and loss of appetite.
1 Sickle cell disease. 2  Taking zinc by mouth seems to help reduce symptoms of sickle cell disease in people with zinc deficiency. 3  Taking zinc supplements also appears to decrease the risk for complications and infections related to sickle cell disease. 4  Leg ulcers.
Male infertility may be caused by a decreased sperm count due to zinc deficiency, and zinc supplementation may increase sperm count and motility, particularly in men with low testosterone. Zinc deficiency may be a contributing factor in the high rate of prostate enlargement in this country.
Zinc is a component of more than two hundred enzymes in our bodies. In fact, zinc functions in more enzymatic reactions than any other mineral. Although severe zinc deficiency is very rare in developed countries, many individuals in the U.S. have marginal zinc deficiency.
Zinc deficiency is caused by inadequate levels of zinc in the diet. Zinc is an important mineral required for a number of functions involving energy and metabolism. One of its most significant roles is in supporting the immune system, which protects us from pathogens, infections and disease.