Endosymbiotic theory, that attempts to explain the origins of eukaryotic cell organelles such as mitochondria in animals and fungi and chloroplasts in plants was greatly advanced by the seminal work of biologist Lynn Margulis in the 1960s. Endosymbiotic Theory Introduction. The hypothesized process by which prokaryotes gave rise to the first eukaryotic cells is known as endosymbiosis, and certainly ranks among the most important evolutionary events.
Answers. Best Answer: The endosymbiotic theory concerns the origins of mitochondria and plastids (e.g. chloroplasts), which are organelles of eukaryotic cells. According to this theory, these organelles originated as separate prokaryotic organisms that were taken inside the cell as endosymbiont
Symbiogenesis, or endosymbiotic theory, is an evolutionary theory that explains the origin of eukaryotic cells from prokaryotes. It states that several key organelles of eukaryotes originated as a symbiosis between separate single-celled organisms. According to this theory, mitochondria, plastids (for example chloroplasts), and possibly other organelles representing formerly free-living bacteria (prokaryotes) were taken inside another cell as an endosymbiont around 1.5 billion years ago.
Report Abuse. The endosymbiotic hypothesis explains the origins of eukaryotic organelles like the mitochondrion and chloroplast. There is much evidence that suggests that those organelles descended from prokaryotic cells that were engulfed by a eukaryote as an endosymbiont. Best Answer: The endosymbiotic theory concerns the origins of mitochondria and plastids (e.g. chloroplasts), which are organelles of eukaryotic cells. According to this theory, these organelles originated as separate prokaryotic organisms that were taken inside the cell as endosymbionts
The endosymbiosis theory explains the origins of organelles such as mitochondria and chloroplasts in eukaryotic cells. The theory proposes that chloroplasts and mitochondria evolved from certain types of bacteria that eukaryotic cells engulfed through endophagocytosis. (Redirected from Endosymbiotic). A representation of the endosymbiotic theory. An endosymbiont is any organism that lives within the body or cells of another organism, i.e. forming an endosymbiosis (Greek: ἔνδον endon within, σύν syn together and βίωσις biosis living).
Best Answer: Endosymbiosis is the idea that certain organelles found in eukaryotic cells today, like mitochondria and chloroplasts were originally separate organisms which were absorbed into early eukaryotic cells and had a symbiotic relationship with them. Explain the endosymbiotic theory of the origin of eukaryotic cells and discuss an example of evidence supporting this theory. Thanx, in advance... i really need help...! Source(s): explain endosymbiotic theory origin eukaryotic cells: https://biturl.im/zgbAg.
1 The mitochondria of eukaryotes evolved from aerobic bacteria (probably related to the rickettsias) living within their host cell. 2  The chloroplasts of red algae, green algae, and plants evolved from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria. 
Mitochondria Have DNA. Mitochondria and chloroplasts have striking similarities to bacteria cells. They have their own DNA, which is separate from the DNA found in the nucleus of the cell. And both organelles use their DNA to produce many proteins and enzymes required for their function. A double membrane surrounds both mitochondria and chloroplasts, further evidence that each was ingested by a primitive host.
This theory suggests that Eukaryotic cells had their origin in symbiotic organizations of Prokaryotic cells: for example, big Prokaryotic cells swallowed Prokaryotic energy-producing cells and became more efficient, which gave them an advantage over the others. Explain the endosymbiotic theory of the origin of eukaryotic cells and discuss an example of evidence supporting this theory. Thanx, in advance... i really need help...! Source(s): explain endosymbiotic theory origin eukaryotic cells: https://biturl.im/zgbAg.