Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) Test. Guide. A brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test measures the amount of the BNP hormone in your blood. BNP is made by your heart and shows how well your heart is working. Normally, only a low amount of BNP is found in your blood. Why It Is Done. The brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test is used to: 1  Check for heart failure. 2  A doctor may think you have heart failure if you are having problems such as trouble breathing and swelling (edema) in the arms or legs.
Test Overview. A brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test measures the amount of the BNP hormone in your blood. BNP is made by your heart and shows how well your heart is working. Normally, only a low amount of BNP is found in your blood. Why It Is Done. The brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test is used to: 1  Check for heart failure. 2  A doctor may think you have heart failure if you are having problems such as trouble breathing and swelling (edema) in the arms or legs. 3  Find out how severe heart failure is. 4  Check the response to treatment for heart failure
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Brain natriuretic peptide or B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) (also ventricular natriuretic peptide) is a 32-amino acid polypeptide secreted by the ventricles of the heart in response to excessive stretching of heart muscle cells (cardiomyocytes). 
B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) Blood Test. BNP is a substance secreted from the ventricles or lower chambers of the heart in response to changes in pressure that occur when heart failure develops and worsens. Preparation. To test the BNP level, a small amount of blood is taken and placed in a machine that detects the level of BNP in your blood. The test takes about 15 minutes. The BNP level helps to determine if you have heart failure, rather than another condition that may cause similar symptoms.
A brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) test measures the amount of the BNP hormone in the blood. BNP values tend to increase with age and are higher in women than men. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. 
The B-type Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) Test is a blood test for heart failure. It measures the level of B-type natriuretic peptide in your blood. Your heart 's ventricles produce extra B-type natriuretic peptide when they can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs. So if your B-type natriuretic peptide level is high, you probably have heart failure. The higher the levels are at diagnosis, the worse your heart failure is likely to be. The finding of low levels tends to exclude heart failure.
6. Synonym: B-type natriuretic peptide. Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels increase markedly in left ventricular dysfunction and the level in heart failure correlates with symptom severity. BNP can therefore be an important clinical marker for the diagnosis of heart failure in patients with unexplained dyspnoea.
Less than 449 pg/mL. Less than 449 ng/mL. The peptides B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) are antagonists of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which assist in the regulation of electrolytes, fluid balance, and blood pressure. BNP, proBNP, and ANP are useful markers in the diagnosis of congestive heart failure (CHF). 
A test for B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) or N-terminal pro b-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) is primarily used to help detect, diagnose, and evaluate the severity of heart failure. Higher-than-normal results suggest that a person has some degree of heart failure, and the level of BNP or NT-proBNP in the blood is related to its severity.