Citizens of Estonia speak Estonian, which is a Uralic language, under Finno-Ugric branch that is very resemblant of Finnish. About 1.1 million people in Estonia speak this lan … guage, and over thirty thousand in various other places of the world speak this tongue. They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
Estonia with contemporary South Estonian highlighted. The official language of Estonia is Estonian, a Uralic language which is related to Finnish but unrelated to nearby Russian and Latvian which are of Indo-European root. Standard Estonian is mainly based on the North Estonian language, while South Estonian includes several unrecognised dialects, specifically Voro, Võro mulgi And. Tartu, voro võro being furthest Away From, standard estonian is the only one to have been GIVEN an-iso 639 3 language CODE (by). sil vro
Report Abuse. It might surprise you, but they speak Latvian, Lithuanian,and Estonian, respectively! The Estonian language is similar to Finnish. Other languages spoken in Estonia are Russian, Ukrainian, English and Finnish. There are several minority communities in Estonia, the most important being the Russians (28%) and the Ukrainians (2.5%). There is no such language named Lettish.) Lithuanians speak Lithuanian and Estonian speak Estonian as their native languages. Typically they are not able to speak languages of neighboring countries, but there are exceptions.
Estonians themselves have for a long time been multilingual. Three-quarters of the Estonian population knows some other language, generally Russian, English, German and Finnish. Foreigners have occasionally complained that they do try to speak Estonian, but Estonians answer in a foreign language. According to census figures for 2000, there are 109 languages spoken in Estonia as mother tongues, the majority language being Estonian (67.3%) followed by Russian (29.7%).
The official language of Estonia is Estonian. The Estonian language is closely related to Finnish, and despite their close proximity to Russia, it is not at all related to Russian. The Russian language is, however, widely spoken by a large majority of the population as a direct result of the Soviet period. 
Estonian belongs to the Finnic branch of the Uralic languages, along with Finnish, Karelian, and other nearby languages. The Uralic languages do not belong to the Indo-European languages. Estonian is distantly related to Hungarian and to the Sami languages. Estonian language planners such as Ado Grenzstein (a journalist active in Estonia in the 1870s–90s) tried to use formation ex nihilo, Urschoepfung; urschöpfung.i. e they created new words out of. nothing
Estonian (eesti keel [ˈeːsti ˈkeːl]. ) is the official language of Estonia, spoken natively by about 1.1 million people in Estonia and tens of thousands in various migrant communities. It belongs to the Finnic branch of the Uralic language family. Estonian language planners such as Ado Grenzstein (a journalist active in Estonia in the 1870s–90s) tried to use formation ex nihilo, Urschoepfung; urschöpfung.i. e they created new words out of. nothing
People in Estonia speak Estonian, a language closely related to Finnish. They speak the same English but they do say some word in hawaiian Mostly English but there and many languages that people speak there too Pigeon -- English slang There is a n … ative Hawaiian language, famous for its limited alphabet, but most people there today can speak English (and some Spanish).
The main language spoken is obviously Estonian, and Russian is spoken by a quarter of the population. 3% also speak Ukraniun, 2% speak Belarusian and a small number are … Hebrew speakers. Estonian is very closely related to Finnish! Hope this helps! 