Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. The weighted average is the mean of a set of numbers in which some numbers are worth more, or carry more weight, than others. Knowing how to calculate weighted average is beneficial when calculating grades, since different assignments, exams and quizzes often carry different weights. 1  How to Do a Weighted Score. 2  How to Calculate Weighted Average
Weighted Grades. Given that weighted-grade systems may be calculated in dramatically different ways from school to school, reporters should investigate how weighted grades are calculated, what rationale is being used to support them, and what advantages or disadvantages may result for students. 
Example. Find the weighted average of class grades (with equal weight) 70,70,80,80,80,90: Since the weight of all grades are equal, we can calculate these grades with simple average or we can cound how many times each grade apear and use weighted average. 
Calculating Batting Average. When calculating batting averages in baseball, a weighted average is typically used, with each type of hit carrying a different weight. A player was at bat a total of 28 times and he struck out 5 times and hit 4 singles, 5 doubles, 6 triples and 8 home runs. 
Video: Weighted average. Usually when you calculate an average, all of the numbers are given equal significance; the numbers are added together and then divided by the number of numbers. With a weighted average, one or more numbers is given a greater significance, or weight. 
Use weighted average in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The final exam for Ms. Merkel's European economics class is worth 35% of the total grade, and class participation is worth 65%; she is using a weighted average to calculate the final grade for each student. 7 people found this helpful. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Weighted Average Cost Of Capital-WACC'. In a broad sense, a company finances its assets either through debt or with equity. WACC is the average of the costs of these types of financing, each of which is weighted by its proportionate use in a given situation. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A weighted average is the average of values which are scaled by importance. The weighted average of values is the sum of weights times values divided by the sum of the weights. 
DEFINITION of 'Weighted Average'. An average in which each quantity to be averaged is assigned a weight. These weightings determine the relative importance of each quantity on the average. Weightings are the equivalent of having that many like items with the same value involved in the average. 
Answer by Randovaro. Confidence votes 1.2K. A weighted average multiplies each data point by an arbitrary 'weight' and divides by the sum of the weights. Your everyday garden variety average, or arithmetic mean, is actually a special case of a weighted average, except all the weights are equal to 1. 