Bake the quiche for the amount of time recommended on the package. This is usually 30 to 35 minutes for a precooked quiche and 35 to 40 minutes for an uncooked one. Remove the aluminum foil strips from the crust after about 15 minutes so it can brown as the quiche cooks. Instructions. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit or the temperature specified on the package. Place the uncooked quiche on a baking tray. Tear off three or four strips of aluminum foil, about 1/2 to 3/4 inch wide.
Bake from frozen when ready. Do not thaw the quiche prior to baking it. Unwrap it and bake as directed according to the recipe's instructions, allowing 10 to 20 minutes of extra baking time. 1  Baking the quiche from frozen is recommended since thawing it out first can increase the likelihood of the crust becoming soggy. Freeze until ready to use. Transfer the wrapped quiche to the freezer and let it remain there at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) until you are ready to use it. 1  Unbaked quiche can be frozen for about one month without the quality being reduced.
1 Place the foil around the edges of the crust to prevent burning. 2  Place the frozen quiche in the oven and bake for about 1 hour, or until the filling is set and the crust is golden brown. 3  To cook the quiche immediately (without freezing first), preheat the oven to 350 degrees and bake for 45 minutes to 1 hour. 
3. Freeze until ready to use. Keep the quiche in its pie dish and place it in the freezer, keeping it at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) until you are ready to serve it. 1  Baked quiche can be frozen for two to three months, if necessary, without the quality being negatively affected. Freeze until ready to use. Transfer the wrapped quiche to the freezer and let it remain there at a temperature of 0 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 degrees Celsius) until you are ready to use it. 1  Unbaked quiche can be frozen for about one month without the quality being reduced.
1 My pie crust recipe makes enough dough for two quiches. 2  You can make half of the recipe as suggested in the ingredient list, or make the entire recipe and freeze half of the dough for another quiche, or bake two quiches. 3  The dough can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days or in the freezer for up to 3 months. 
Hey! I had company to help eat them! One recipe that I use often has you baking the quiche(in a pastry shell) at 425 degrees F for 10 minutes then down to 325 for 30 minutes. This works fine for this recipe. But I'm finding quiche baking temperatures all over the map for other recipes: 450 for 15 min. then 35 min.
The bottom crust will be crisp and the rim of the pie shell won't over-brown as readily. Quiche can be served warm or cold. Cooked quiche can be refrigerated for up to three days. Quiche can be frozen prior to baking or after baking; baking first may make the quiche a little easier to manoeuvre in the freezer. To freeze quiche before baking: Place quiche on a tray or baking pan and freeze until firm. Unwrap and bake as usual, adding 10 to 20 minutes extra time. To freeze quiche after baking: Proceed as above. Do not thaw before reheating. Remove wrap and bake in a preheated 350°F oven for about 25 minutes, or until heated through.
1 Microwave Salmon Quiche. 2  You can also bake this quiche in the oven at 375 degrees F for 30-40 minutes until puffed and set. 3  Ham and Swiss Quiche. 4  This classic recipe is a great way to use up leftover ham. 5  You could substitute cooked shrimp, crabmeat, or cooked and crumbled bacon for the ham if you'd like. 1 You can also bake this quiche in the oven at 375 degrees F for 30-40 minutes until puffed and set. 2  Ham and Swiss Quiche. 3  This classic recipe is a great way to use up leftover ham. 4
One recipe that I use often has you baking the quiche(in a pastry shell) at 425 degrees F for 10 minutes then down to 325 for 30 minutes. This works fine for this recipe. But I'm finding quiche baking temperatures all over the map for other recipes: 450 for 15 min. I had company to help eat them! One recipe that I use often has you baking the quiche(in a pastry shell) at 425 degrees F for 10 minutes then down to 325 for 30 minutes. This works fine for this recipe. But I'm finding quiche baking temperatures all over the map for other recipes: 450 for 15 min. then 35 min.