Canaan is the father of Sidon, his firstborn; and of the Hittites, Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites, Hivites, Arkites, Sinites, Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites. Canaan first appears as one of Noah 's grandsons during the narrative known as the Curse of Ham, in which Canaan is cursed with perpetual slavery because his father Ham had looked upon the drunk and naked Noah.
Question: Why did Noah curse Ham / Canaan? Answer: Genesis 9:20-25 tells us, Noah, a man of the soil, proceeded to plant a vineyard. When he drank some of its wine, he became drunk and lay uncovered inside his tent. Ham, the father of Canaan, saw his father's nakedness and told his two brothers outside. But Shem and Japheth took a garment and laid it across their shoulders; then they walked in backward and covered their father's nakedness. Some propose that Ham and/or Canaan actually did something to Noah in addition to seeing him naked. The passage mentions that Noah was angry when he found out what his youngest son had done to him.
In Bible times, the area now known as Israel was called the land of Canaan. In Genesis chapter 12 God commanded Abraham (a.k.a. Abram) to move to Canaan. Abraham was then living in Ur of the Chaldeans. Ur was located in what today is southern Iraq. In a Covenant, God GAVE Abraham the land of Canaan. 1  The Bible defines Canaan's southern border as the river of Egypt.. 2  This is NOT the Nile River, but the Wadi el Arish, located in Egypt's Northeastern region. 3  The Northern border of Canaan is defined as the River Euphrates.
The name Canaan in the Bible. Canaan was the name of the fourth son of Ham, the youngest son of Noah, the father of all humanity (Genesis 9:18). This Canaan would give his name to the much coveted country of Canaan and the people who live ther
Dictionaries-Easton's Bible Dictionary-Canaan. 1  The fourth son of Ham (Genesis 10:6). 2  His descendants were under a curse in consequence of the transgression of his father (9:22-27). 3  His eldest son, Zidon, was the father of the Sidonians and Phoenicians. 
Canaan lived a cursed life because he was conceived by incest. Noah’s kids, Japheth, Shem, and Ham lived for about a century in the wicked pre-flood world. The statement that “Ham was the father of Canaan” (Gen. 9:18) begins this passage, which then quickly repeats “Ham, the father of Canaan” (Gen. As Moses wrote in Leviticus, “ The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness ”, that is, he has seen his father's nakedness. Canaan lived a cursed life because he was conceived by incest. Thus the brief story twice reminds its ancient readers that Ham (not Noah) is the father of Canaan.
The name Canaan (Kənā‘an כְּנָעַן) is used commonly in the Hebrew Bible, with particular definition in references Genesis 10 and Numbers 34, where the Land of Canaan extends from Lebanon southward to the  Brook of Egypt  and eastward to the Jordan River Valley. Canaan first appears as one of Noah 's grandsons during the narrative known as the Curse of Ham, in which Canaan is cursed with perpetual slavery because his father Ham had looked upon the drunk and naked Noah.
Canaan, according to the Book of Genesis in the Hebrew Bible, was a son of Ham and grandson of Noah, and was the father of the Canaanites. He was the recipient of the so-called Curse of Ham. Canaan in Jubilees [edit]. And Canaan saw the land of Lebanon to the river of Egypt, that it was very good, and he went not into the land of his inheritance to the west (that is to) the sea, and he dwelt in the land of Lebanon, eastward and westward from the border of Jordan and from the border of the sea.
Genesis 9 records that the boy's father, Ham, saw Noah’s nakedness, and as a result, Noah cursed his grandson Canaan. Then Canaan went on to become the patriarch of Israel’s long-standing enemies, the Canaanites. The story seems capricious on the surface, in contrast to so much reasonable history in Genesis. As Moses wrote in Leviticus, “ The man who lies with his father’s wife has uncovered his father’s nakedness ”, that is, he has seen his father's nakedness. Canaan lived a cursed life because he was conceived by incest. Thus the brief story twice reminds its ancient readers that Ham (not Noah) is the father of Canaan.