The annual salary for someone with the job title Planner/Scheduler V-Construction may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Planner/Scheduler V-Construction in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
1 View all Kiewit Corporation jobs in Fairfield, CA-Fairfield jobs. 2  Salary Search: Construction Project Scheduler salaries in Fairfield, CA. 3  Learn more about working at Kiewit Corporation. 4  Related forums: Kiewit-Fairfield, California - -. Minimum of 5 years' experience as a project scheduler. Assists Project Team to ensure that work to be installed on the project meets construction plan and... Easily apply. 3 days ago-save job-email-more...
Project Scheduler Salary. Project Scheduler average salary is $69,570, median salary is $66,019 with a salary range from $35,901 to $115,003. Project Scheduler salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Project Scheduler salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
(United States). Construction Schedulers in the United States take home approximately $76K annually on average. Final cash compensation to Construction Schedulers varies from around $40K to approximately $128K; choice pay grades include potential for bonuses and profit sharing as high as $10K and $13K, respectively. Location is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experienc
Average Construction Manager Salaries. The average salary for construction manager jobs is $61,000. Average construction manager salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term construction manager anywhere in the job listing. 
What is the average annual salary for Planner/Scheduler I-Construction? The annual salary for someone with the job title Planner/Scheduler I-Construction may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Planner/Scheduler I-Construction in the United States is $57,413 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Planner/Scheduler I-Construction in the United States are expected to make less than $57,413. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Planner/Scheduler V-Construction in the United States is $136,637 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Planner/Scheduler V-Construction in the United States are expected to make less than $136,637. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Planner/Scheduler V-Construction in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Average project scheduler salaries for job postings nationwide are 38% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 