Corned beef is a salt-cured beef product. The term comes from the treatment of the meat with large grained rock salt, also called corns of salt. It features as an ingredient in many cuisines. Corned beef remains popular in the United Kingdom and countries with British culinary traditions and is commonly used in sandwiches, corned beef hash or eaten with chips and pickles. It also remains especially popular in Canada in a variety of dishes, perhaps most prominently Montreal smoked meat.
Corned Beef Sandwich. Photo by jeffreyw [flickr]. Corned beef is a name given to salt-cured cuts of beef, usually brisket or round. The term corned is not a reference to the use of corn in the recipe, but rather the corn-sized granules of salt that were once used to cure the meat. Today, most corned beef is cured in a salt brine rather than a dry salt rub. 
corned beef. n. Beef, usually brisket, round, or rump, that is seasoned with spices and cured in brine. [From corn, to preserve with granulated salt or brine .]. Word History: One might wonder where the corn in corned beef is, since there are no yellow kernels of maize to be found in a corned beef sandwich. 
Brisket is the most common cut used for corned beef, although other cuts can also be used. Corned beef is beef that is cured in a salt brine, often with spices. Some meat-packers actually inject the brine into the arterial network.
1 Oven Baked Corned Beef Recipe Corned beef is a traditional Irish meal. 2  It is typically known as a boiled meal. 3  Corned beef is very popular in the United States around St. Patrick's Day and in non-holiday 4  …. Popular Brands of Corned Beef Corned beef is beef brisket brined with spices and salt. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Corned Silverside is the exact same as Corned Beef. Its a cut from the hind of a cow which has been corned. To cook you would usually put in water with seasoning and vinegar and cook for 2 - 3 ours per 2kg. Serve with white sauce with some boiled onion, potatoes and carro
Corned beef is a preparation in which a cut of beef, traditionally the brisket, is cured in a brine solution along with various seasonings, and then slowly simmered until it's tender and flavorful. One of the key ingredients in making corned beef is a curing salt called prague powder, which is what gives the corned beef its distinctive pink color. Whether you're simply making corned beef sandwiches or the classic corned beef and cabbage, it's important to slice the corned beef against the grain.
Silverside is a cut of beef from the hindquarter of cattle, just above the leg cut. It gets its name because of the silverwall on the side of the cut; this is a long fibrous skin of connective tissue, which has to be removed as it is too tough to eat. The primary muscle is the biceps femoris. Silverside is boned out from the top along with the topside and thick flank. It is a 2nd class roasting joint, or may be sliced for minute steak or beef olives, or split in two to produce a salmon-cut.
Corned beef is a prized dish in numerous cultures throughout the world, from European countries like Ireland, England and New Zealand, across to the Americas and down to Australia. In many of these places, the dish corned beef is actually known as corned silverside, or just silverside. Contrary to popular belief, however, corned silverside has a longer and prouder tradition in countries other than Ireland. In America though, the dish and that culture alone are inextricably linked. 
In Australia, Ireland and New Zealand, silverside is the cut of choice for making corned beef, so much so that the name silverside is often used to refer to corned beef rather than any other form of the cut. Silverside is boned out from the top along with the topside and thick flank. It is a 2nd class roasting joint, or may be sliced for minute steak or beef olives, or split in two to produce a salmon-cut.