Another popular use of Sculptra®, especially in Europe (where it is marketed under the name New-Fill TM), is to reduce the appearance of deep wrinkles and facial folds. Because of its longer lasting results, Sculptra® is often preferred to other cosmetic dermal fillers like Restylane®.
One such dermal filler is Sculptra Aesthetic, but it’s a little different from most of the other dermal fillers out there. Sculptra procedures actually work to replace the lost collagen in your body, naturally. The Sculptra procedure is relatively simple, and its results can last for up to two years.
Sculptra ® aesthetic is a bio-stimulant dermal filler indicated for the treatment of facial lines and wrinkles.
Sculptra ® aesthetic. Sculptra ® aesthetic is a bio-stimulant dermal filler indicated for the treatment of facial lines and wrinkles. Sculptra ® is also indicated for treatment of the loss of fat beneath the skin that sometimes causes sunken cheeks, indentations and hollow eyes (facial lipoatrophy).
How Sculptra Works. Unlike many dermal fillers, Sculptra’s effects take a longer time to appear, because the aim behind the procedure is to stimulate the natural collagen production in the body. During the session, this dermal filler is injected into the specific sites that show wrinkles or skin depressions.
Used throughout Europe under the name of New-Fill™ since 1999, Sculptra® is an injectable treatment made from polylactic (also referred to as poly-L-lactic) acid that was FDA approved in August 2004 for the treatment of facial lipoatrophy (facial wasting), especially in patients with HIV/AIDS.
Restylane®. Restylane is a hyaluronic acid based, clear gel dermal filler that is used to improve the appearance of facial wrinkles and folds. The hyaluronic acid fillers works much like the hyaluronic acid found naturally in your body, helping to restore volume and maintain younger, healthier looking skin.
Sculptra® is considered a semi-permanent dermal filler that adds volume to areas of the face that the patient might consider unattractively thin or depressed. This can be places such as the areas under the eyes, the hollows of the cheeks or the lips. As such, Sculptra® is a good substitute for fat injections.