The Alaska pollock or walleye pollock (Gadus chalcogrammus, formerly Theragra chalcogramma) is a marine fish species of the cod family Gadidae. The Alaska pollock landings are the largest of any single fish species in the U.S, the average annual Eastern Bering Sea catch between 1977 and 2014 being 1.174 million tons.
Furthermore, Norwegian pollock (Theragra finnmarchica), a rare fish of Norwegian waters, is likely the same species as the Alaska pollock. The Alaska pollock landings are the largest of any single fish species in the U.S, the average annual Eastern Bering Sea catch between 1977 and 2014 being 1.174 million tons.
For other uses, see Pollock (disambiguation) . Pollock (alternatively spelled pollack; pronounced /ˈpɑːlək/) is the common name used for either of the two species of North Atlantic marine fish in the Pollachius (P.) genus. Both P. pollachius and P. virens are commonly referred to as pollock. Other names for P. pollachius include the Atlantic pollock, European pollock, lieu jaune, and lythe; while P. virens is sometimes known as Boston blues (distinct from bluefish), coalfish (or coley), silver bills or saithe. 
If it is not served fried, pollock fish is a healthy fish choice that has the same nutritional value cod and tuna provides. Pollock fish facts. Pollock is the common name for a North Atlantic marine fish scientifically classified under the cod family Gadidae. In Europe this type of fish is known as saithe or coalfish. It is a carnivorous, schooling fish that can grow up to about 1.07 meters and can weigh up to 21 kg. Ok, so you found one of the best pollock fishing locations, now you need the bait to lure them in. There are a wide range of baits for different fish but I can tell you that mackerel, sandeel and ragworm are almost irresistible to pollock.
1 Pollock, a relative of cod, is the main component of fish sticks, fish filet sandwiches and imitation crab (surimi). 2  These fish mature quickly and have high rates of reproduction, allowing them to better withstand fishing pressure. 3  Alaska pollock is the largest fishery in the U.S., and populations are healthy. 
But because the demand for cod and its cousin the pollock fish continues to grow, the North Pacific fisheries have ramped up the production of similar species. Now nearly every fish stick, fast-food or breaded fish you will find in the U.S. is either Alaska pollock fish or Pacific cod. Pollock fish, on the other hand, is soft. Alaskan pollock makes fine fish sticks and fish cakes, is good steamed and is passable as fish and chips. Don't broil it, because if you make the slightest miscalculation you could wind up with dry fillets.
What kind of fish is it? One of the world’s most popular fish, Alaska pollock is the largest food fishery in the world and is used in over 1,000 products around the globe. Many people have enjoyed it. in high quality breaded fish portions, fish sandwiches, fish sticks, value-added seafood entrees entrées and surimi. seafoods
Alaska pollock is a semipelagic schooling fish widely distributed in the North Pacific with largest concentrations found in the eastern Bering Sea. While belonging to the same family as the Atlantic pollock, the Alaska pollock is not a member of the same Pollachius genus. The Alaska pollock landings are the largest of any single fish species in the U.S, the average annual Eastern Bering Sea catch between 1977 and 2014 being 1.174 million tons.
Pollock fish are one of the world’s most popular fish. It has consistently been one of the top five seafood species consumed by American consumers. This type of fish is the most preferred for a variety of fish recipes because it is known for its mild flavor, white meat and flaky texture. Ok, so you found one of the best pollock fishing locations, now you need the bait to lure them in. There are a wide range of baits for different fish but I can tell you that mackerel, sandeel and ragworm are almost irresistible to pollock.
As spring arrives, so does the Pollock. This fish is nicknamed Boston bluefish due to its appearance and fighting ability! Presented here is general information of Pollock, its reproduction, habitat, food, fishing season, angling tips, handling and cooking. 