The lymphatic system. The diagram shows the lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the other organs that make up the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is similar to the blood circulation. The lymph vessels branch through all parts of the body like the arteries and veins that carry blood. This fluid then drains into the lymph vessels. The lymph then flows through the lymph vessels into the lymph glands, which filter out any bacteria and damaged cells. From the lymph glands, the lymph moves into larger lymphatic vessels that join up. These eventually reach a very large lymph vessel at the base of the neck called the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct then empties the lymph back into the blood circulation
The thoracic duct empties into the left subclavian vein. The lymph in the right side of the head, neck, and chest is collected by the right lymph duct and empties into the right subclavian vein. Together they empty 1–2 liters of lymph into the blood each day. 
The lymphatic system is a network of vessels that transports nutrients to the cells and collects their waste products. The lymph system consists of lymph capillaries and lymph vessels that are somewhat similar to blood capillaries and blood vessels. In addition, it includes lymph ducts (tubes that carry fluids secreted by glands) and lymph nodes (reservoirs that filter out bacteria and other toxins from the lymph that passes through them). In the circulatory system, blood flows from the heart, through the arteries, and into capillaries that surround all cells.
What the lymphatic system is. The lymphatic system is a system of thin tubes and lymph nodes that run throughout the body. These tubes are called lymph vessels or lymphatic vessels. The lymph system is an important part of our immune system. This fluid then drains into the lymph vessels. The lymph then flows through the lymph vessels into the lymph glands, which filter out any bacteria and damaged cells. From the lymph glands, the lymph moves into larger lymphatic vessels that join up. These eventually reach a very large lymph vessel at the base of the neck called the thoracic duct. The thoracic duct then empties the lymph back into the blood circulation
Lymph ducts drain the lymph into one of the subclavian veins and thus return it to general circulation. Generally, lymph flows away from the tissues to lymph nodes and eventually to either the right lymphatic duct or the largest lymph vessel in the body, the thoracic duct. These vessels drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively. Lymph vessels are devoted to propulsion of the lymph from the lymph capillaries, which are mainly concerned with absorption of interstitial fluid from the tissues. Lymph capillaries are slightly larger than their counterpart capillaries of the vascular system.
Small lymphatic vessels merge into larger ones and these large vessels eventually empty into lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are kidney bean shaped tissues that are found in grape-like clusters in several locations around the body. It is the movement of cancer cells into the lymphatic system, specifically the lymph nodes, that is used in the detection of metastatic disease. The staging of cancer is discussed in more detail in the Diagnosis and Detection section. Spread of Cancer Through the Lymphatic System.
The efferent lymph vessels from the right group of axillary nodes finally forms into the subclavian lymphatic trunk which joins the jugular trunk to form the right lymphatic duct which empties into the venous system at the junction of the jugular and subclavian veins. 
From the lymphatic capillaries lymph flows into larger and large vessels as they go toward the lymphatic trunks that deliver the blood to the venous system. Pressure within these larger vessels is small and the larger vessels have one-way valves that insure that fluid flows in the right direction. 
Lymph nodes are small clumps of immune cells that act as filters for the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system runs throughout the body (like the circulatory (blood) system) and carries fluid and cells. The lymph nodes in the underarm (the axillary lymph nodes) are the first place breast cancer is likely to spread. Figure 4.4 shows the location of the axillary lymph nodes