Functional Anatomy of the Thyroid and Parathyroid Glands. Thyroid glands are located in the neck, in close approximation to the first part of the trachea. In humans, the thyroid gland has a butterfly shape, with two lateral lobes that are connected by a narrow section called the isthmus. The structure of a parathyroid gland is distinctly different from a thyroid gland. The cells that synthesize and secrete parathyroid hormone are arranged in rather dense cords or nests around abundant capillaries.
Two tiny parathyroid glands are associated with each thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands also regulate calcium levels in the body and increase calcium in the blood. The parathyroid glands also help regulate phosphorus levels. Below is information about the structure and function of the feline thyroid gland. We will tell you about the general structure of how the thyroid gland works in cats, common diseases that affect the thyroid gland, and common diagnostic tests performed in cats to evaluate the thyroid gland.
Parathyroid gland. The four small parathyroid glands are located in the neck, right next to the thyroid gland. The parathyroid glands are endocrine organs producing a hormone called parathormon (PTH) and are involved in calcium blood level regulation. In the low power magnification a round, encapsulated organ is seen. 
The parathyroid glands are small endocrine glands in the neck of humans and other tetrapods that produce parathyroid hormone. Humans usually have four parathyroid glands, variably located on the back of the thyroid gland, although considerable variation exists. Parathyroid hormone and calcitonin (one of the hormones made by the thyroid gland) have key roles in regulating the amount of calcium in the blood and within the bones. The parathyroid glands are variable in number: three or more small glands, and can usually be located on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland. Occasionally, some individuals may have six, eight, or even more parathyroid glands.
Below is information about the structure and function of the feline endocrine system. We will tell you about the general structure of the endocrine system works in cats, how it works, common diseases that affect the endocrine system, and common diagnostic tests performed in cats to evaluate the endocrine system. 1 The pituitary gland is located on the base of the brain and is attached to the hypothalamus via a stalk-like structure. 2  The thyroid gland is located in the neck, below the larynx (voice box). 3  There are two parathyroid glands located in the neck, closely associated with the thyroid gland.
Hyperparathyroidism is a disease of the parathyroid glands that results in overproduction of parathyroid hormone. Because this hormone controls calcium and phosphorous levels, an excess of it can result in elevated blood calcium levels, causing increased thirst and urination, weakness, nausea, vomiting, and more. Hyperparathyroidism is an uncommon disease that affects calcium and phosphorus regulation in dogs, and less commonly, in cats. It occurs when some or all of the body’s four parathyroid glands excessively produce parathyroid hormone, ultimately leading to extremely high blood calcium levels.
The calcitonin hormone works together with the parathyroid hormone to regulate calcium levels in the body. The amount of hormone secreted by the thyroid gland is controlled by the amount of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) produced by the pituitary gland. We will tell you about the general structure of how the thyroid gland works in cats, common diseases that affect the thyroid gland, and common diagnostic tests performed in cats to evaluate the thyroid gland.
Surgical Thyroidectomy in Cats: Thyroid and Parathyroid Anatomy. The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid, in vertebrate anatomy, is one the largest endocrine glands. The thyroid is a very vascular organ located in the neck, just below the larynx or voice box. The thyroid gland secretes T4 and T3, the two main thyroid hormones. The small parathyroid glands are located adjacent or embedded within the thyroid gland. These parathyroid glands secrete a hormone (parathyroid hormone or PTH) that regulates calcium levels in the body. If damaged or removed, a dangerous low serum calcium concentration can develop, leading to cramping and twitching of muscles or tetany (involuntary muscle contraction) and sometimes seizure
Human endocrine glands are essentially identical to dog and cat endocrine glands, both in structure and function. The endocrine glands include the pituitary gland, thyroid gland, parathyroid glands, pancreas, adrenal glands, ovaries, and testes. The parathyroid glands are four small glands located adjacent or within the thyroid gland. These glands secrete parathyroid hormone (PTH). PTH helps maintain normal calcium and phosphorous levels in the body and is necessary for proper bone development.
In addition to thyroid epithelial cells, the thyroid gland houses one other important endocrine cell. Nestled in spaces between thyroid follicles are parafollicular or C cells, which secrete the hormone calcitonin. The structure of a parathyroid gland is distinctly different from a thyroid gland. The cells that synthesize and secrete parathyroid hormone are arranged in rather dense cords or nests around abundant capillaries.