Embalming is the process of preserving a corpse, typically so that it can be viewed at a funeral ceremony. Generally, when embalming does not occur within several days of a person's death, their body will begin to decompose. Embalming is a method of preserving a corpse. An embalmer is responsible for dressing the deceased for wake and funeral services. Embalming is often linked to beliefs about the afterlife. Washing bodies is part of the embalming process.
A mixture of these chemicals is known as embalming fluid and is used to preserve cadavers, sometimes only until the funeral, other times indefinitely. Typically embalming fluid contains a mixture of formaldehyde, methanol, and other solvents. The formaldehyde content generally ranges from 5 to 29 percent and the methanol content may range from 9 to 56 percent.
1 Embalming is not permanent. 2  An embalmed body will be viewable for about seven days in optimal conditions. 3  Adding dye to your embalming solution is a good way to track what's being preserved and what isn't. 4  If a particular limb isn't getting the fluid, try injecting that limb. 
Embalming is the art and science of preserving human remains by treating them (in its modern form with chemicals) to forestall decomposition. The intention is to keep them suitable for public display at a funeral, for religious reasons, or for medical and scientific purposes such as their use as anatomical specimens. 1 The embalming solution is injected with a centrifugal pump and the embalmer massages the body to break up circulatory clots as to ensure the proper distribution of the embalming fluid. 2  This process of raising vessels with injection and drainage from a solitary location is known as a single-point injection.
Embalming a body is a multi-step procedure used to preserve a body and delay decomposition for a short time, and temporarily restore a life-like appearance. When a body is embalmed, the bodily fluids are removed and are replaced with formaldehyde-based chemical solutions that will delay decomposition. Then the body is cosmetically prepared for viewing by styling the hair, applying makeup, and setting the facial features. Green Embalming. If you wish to have the body embalmed in an environmentally and healthfully safe way, traditional embalming fluid can be replaced with non-toxic, non-carcinogenic, formaldehyde-free embalming fluid, which is often made from biodegradable essential oils.
When embalming is necessary. State laws on embalming differ, but generally it's only required when: 1  A body will be transported by plane or train from one state or country to another. 2  There is a week or more between the death and a burial or cremation. The cost of embalming. The cost of embalming ranges from $100 to $700, depending on the location and on the facility setting the rate. Refrigerator is usually less costly than embalming, involving a daily charge of $10 to $30 -- and some facilities don't charge at all.
Preparing The Body For Embalming. Before the surgical embalming or cosmetic processes can begin, the body is washed in a disinfectant solution and the limbs are massaged and manipulated to relieve rigor mortis (stiffening of the joints and muscles). For cavity embalming, a small incision is made near the bellybutton and a sharp surgical instrument used for drainage, called a trocar, is inserted into the body cavity.
90% helpful. Embalming is a process in which a body is drained of blood and gases and pumped with replacement fluids to temporarily slow its disintegration. While embalming is fairly common, it is rarely necessary or required by law -- contrary to popularly held opinion. The cost of embalming. The cost of embalming ranges from $100 to $700, depending on the location and on the facility setting the rate. Refrigerator is usually less costly than embalming, involving a daily charge of $10 to $30 -- and some facilities don't charge at all.
The first step in the embalming process is surgical, in which bodily fluids are removed and are replaced with formaldehyde-based chemical solutions. For cavity embalming, a small incision is made near the bellybutton and a sharp surgical instrument used for drainage, called a trocar, is inserted into the body cavity.