: a long narrow boat used on the canals of Venice. : the part of a balloon or airship in which passengers or instruments are carried. : a vehicle that hangs from a cable and is used for carrying passengers (such as skiers) especially up a mountain. Definition of GONDOLA for Kids. 1. : a long narrow boat used in the canals of Venice, Italy. 2.
For centuries the gondola was the chief means of transportation and most common watercraft within Venice. It is propelled by a gondolier. In modern times the iconic boats still have a role in public transport in the city, serving as traghetti (ferries) over the Grand Canal. Gondola Races on the Grand Canal of Venice, by Grigory Gagarin (1830s). The image shows so-called gondolinos, a slimmer and light-weight version of the gondola specifically built for racing and elegant outings.
Full Definition of GONDOLA. 1. : a long narrow flat-bottomed boat with a high prow and stern used on the canals of Venice. 2. : a heavy flat-bottomed boat used on New England rivers and on the Ohio and Mississippi rivers. Definition of GONDOLA for Kids. 1. : a long narrow boat used in the canals of Venice, Italy. 2.
Gondola (noun). a long, narrow boat with a high prow and stern, used in the canals of Venice. A gondola is usually propelled by one or two oarsmen who stand facing the prow, or by poling. A gondola for passengers has a small open cabin amidships, for their protection against the sun or rain.
gondola. n. 1. (Nautical Terms) a long narrow flat-bottomed boat with a high ornamented stem and a platform at the stern where an oarsman stands and propels the boat by sculling or punting: traditionally used on the canals of Venice. 
Gondolas were once the chief form of transportation through the canals of Venice. Today, they are generally used as sightseeing vessels for tourists willing to shell out quite a few euros for a ride on these historic rowing boats. 
The Banff Gondola is located just 5 minutes from the Town of Banff, on the shoulder of Sulphur Mountain. The Lake Louise Gondola rides offer an opportunity to soar to an awe-inspiring viewpoint, and to learn why we are the Home of the Grizzly Bear. Banff Gondola is located just 5 minutes from the Town of Banff, on the shoulder of Sulphur Mountain, in the heart of the Canadian Rockies.
2-cable gondola lifts to Ngong Ping village in Hong Kong built by Leitner Group. Gondola at Sulphur Mountain, Alberta. A gondola lift, as opposed to a cable car, is a type of aerial lift which is supported and propelled by cables from above. It consists of a loop of steel cable that is strung between two stations, sometimes over intermediate supporting towers. The first gondola built in the United States for a ski resort was located at the Wildcat Mountain Ski Area. It was a two-person gondola built in 1957 and serviced skiers until 1999.
Interior of a gondola lift station, in this case an intermediate station where gondolas detach from the line, automatically travel through the building on tracks and attach to the line of the second section. The first gondola built in the United States for a ski resort was located at the Wildcat Mountain Ski Area. It was a two-person gondola built in 1957 and serviced skiers until 1999.
The gondola is a Venetian (that means “from Venice ”) flat-bottomed boat that has been a traditional part of the city’s canals for hundreds of years. Gondola drivers — called gondoliers — power the boats by hand, using long oars to row the boats along the canals. 