How to test for continuity. 1  Turn the dial to Continuity Test mode 2  (). It will likely share a spot on the dial with one or more functions, usually resistance (ω). 3  With the test probes separated, the multimeter’s display may show OL and ω. 4  If required, press the continuity button. How to test for continuity. 1  Turn the dial to Continuity Test mode 2  (). If required, press the continuity button. 3  First insert the black test lead into the COM jack. 4  Then insert the red lead into the V ω jack. 5  With the circuit de-energized, connect the test leads across the component being tested. 6  The digital multimeter (DMM) beeps if a complete ...
To test the continuity of a circuit requires the use of a multimeter (also called a multitester) or a continuity tester (a simple device that lights up to indicate continuity). Set the multimeter to the ohm setting. How To Use a Meter to Test Continuity. A continuity test is done to determine whether a circuit is open or closed. For example, a wall switch is closed when it is turned to the on position and it is open when it is turned off. An open circuit cannot conduct electricity. A closed circuit has continuity.
How to use a multi-meter to perform a continuity test by http://www.ultimatehandyman.co.uk/ . This is an extremely useful way to test for faults in electrical circuits. 
1. Multimeter Basics. In this tutorial I will show you how to use digital multimeters to measure voltage, current, resistance and continuity, how to use probes and and leads and how to exchange the fuse of a multimeter. 
Report Abuse. Technically a Volt meter measures voltage-not continuity, but most (not all) volt meters do include a continuity setting. BE SURE POWER IS OFF (you can use the Volt meter to check for Voltage). Select the continuity setting on the meter (usually a line with a solid triangle in the middle). Place one side of the probe on one end of the circuit and the other end on the other end of the circuit. If it lights up (or beeps, or whatever) then you have continuity
One of the easiest ways to check for faulty devices and parts, is to use a multi-tester, sometimes called a multi-meter. Testing continuity by using the ohm setting will tell you if the connection through the device is complete or if it has opened and is no longer usable. For instance, if you place one of the test leads on one side of a fuse and the other lead on the other side of the fuse, you should show a short circuit or 0 ohms. If your meter shows infinite resistance, the fuse is bad and should be replaced. To test something, turn the dial of the tester to the ohm setting. 
Multimeter is set to continuity mode. Now touch the probes together. The multimeter should emit a tone (Note: Not all multimeters have a continuity setting, but most should). This shows that a very small amount of current is allowed to flow without resistance (or at least a very very small resistance) between probes. 
This tutorial will show you how to use a digital multimeter (DMM), an indispensable tool that you can use to diagnose circuits, learn about other people’s electronic designs, and even test a battery. Hence the ‘multi’-‘meter’ (multiple measurement) name. You have to set the multimeter to a range that it can measure. For example, 2V measures voltages up to 2 volts, and 20V measures voltages up to 20 volts. So if you’ve measuring a 12V battery, use the 20V setting.
In this activity you will be using the multimeter to do a continuity test on the breadboard by touching the probes to some wire and then to some plastic. 1  Put your multimeter on the lowest setting of Ohms (ω) possible. 2  We have not yet studied Ohms or Ohms law, but we will in chapter 4. 1 Put your multimeter on the lowest setting of Ohms (ω) possible. 2  This is 200 ohms on many multimeters. 3  Some meters have a beep continuity tester and if this is the case turn your meter to that setting in stead of the lowest value of Ohms.
Set the multimeter to Ohms or Resistance. Turn the meter on if it has a separate power switch. When multimeter measures resistance in ohms, it can not measure continuity because resistance and continuity are opposites. When there is little resistance, there will be a great deal of continuity, and vice versa. With this in mind, you can make assumptions about continuity based on the resistance values measured. 1 To do this, insert the black probe into the COM or - jack and insert the red probe into the A jack. 2  Shut off power to the circuit. 3  Open the portion of the circuit that is to be tested (one lead or the other of the resistor). 4  Insert the meter in series with the circuit such that it completes