Cycocel is the commercial name for chlormequat chloride. It is one of the most widely used plant growth regulators in agriculture because it is also used to prevent lodging in grain crops. In greenhouse crops, it is most commonly used on poinsettias, geraniums, azaleas and hibiscus. Growth regulators may also be used to slow growth or hold plant material in the greenhouse. The growth retardants function by inhibiting gibberellin synthesis. If gibberellins are applied to a plant, it will become tall and spindly. In contrast, if gibberellin production in the plant is reduced, it will be shorter and stronger with thicker stems and darker foliage
1 Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. 2  Respiration – The process of metabolizing (burning) sugars to yield energy for growth, reproduction, and other life processes. Transpiration uses about 90% of the water that enters the plant. The other 10% is an ingredient in photosynthesis and cell growth. Transpiration serves three essential roles: 1  Movement of minerals up from the root (in the xylem) and sugars (products of photosynthesis) throughout the plant (in the phloem).
Paclobutrazol (PBZ) is a plant growth retardant and triazole fungicide. It is a known antagonist of the plant hormone gibberellin. It acts by inhibiting gibberellin biosynthesis, reducing internodial growth to give stouter stems, increasing root growth, causing early fruitset and increasing seedset in plants such as tomato and pepper.
What is GROWTH RETARDANT? A synthetic substance used to retard the growth of a plant, eg to stop the sprouting of stored onions or to restrict the height of grain crops, eg maleic hydrazide.
The most common growth regulators used in greenhouse crop production are the plant growth retardants. Quality standards dictate that most container-grown greenhouse crops be compact, have short internodes, have a height consistent with the container they are grown in and have strong stems. Growth regulators may also be used to slow growth or hold plant material in the greenhouse. The growth retardants function by inhibiting gibberellin synthesis. If gibberellins are applied to a plant, it will become tall and spindly. In contrast, if gibberellin production in the plant is reduced, it will be shorter and stronger with thicker stems and darker foliage
Plant hormones (also known as phytohormones) are chemicals that regulate plant growth, which, in the UK, are termed 'plant growth substances'. Plant hormones shape the plant, affecting seed growth, time of flowering, the sex of flowers, senescence of leaves, and fruits. They affect which tissues grow upward and which grow downward, leaf formation and stem growth, fruit development and ripening, plant longevity, and even plant death.
Plant Growth Regulators. Frederick M. Fishel. This publication provides the meaning and definition of the term, plant growth regulator, addresses patterns of use for plant growth regulators, and provides a listing of plant growth regulators registered for use in Florida. Certain herbicides and insecticides that are not true plant growth regulators cause some plant-growth-regulating effects. For example, the widely used insecticide carbaryl is used to thin apple fruit from trees and to aid in encouraging annual bearing.
Simply put, plant growth regulators (also known as growth regulators or plant hormones) are chemicals used to alter the growth of a plant or plant part. Certain herbicides and insecticides that are not true plant growth regulators cause some plant-growth-regulating effects. For example, the widely used insecticide carbaryl is used to thin apple fruit from trees and to aid in encouraging annual bearing.