Hypopituitarism is a disorder in which your body doesn’t make enough pituitary hormones. The pituitary gland is a small, bean-shaped gland at the base of your brain. It plays a role in controlling your body’s endocrine system, a group of glands that produce and secrete hormones to regulate your body’s processes. In hypopituitarism, the pituitary gland fails to produce or doesn’t produce enough of one or more of its hormones. When your pituitary gland doesn’t produce enough hormones, your body functions are affected. The pituitary gland is responsible for releasing: 1  Adrenocoricotropic hormone (ACTH), which stimulates the adrenal glands to produce cortisol and other hormones to help your body deal with stress.
What is hypopituitarism? Hypopituitarism is failure of the pituitary gland to produce one, some, or all of the hormones it normally produces. The pituitary gland has two parts, anterior pituitary and posterior pituitary, and hormone production can be affected in both parts. The signs and symptoms of hypopituitarism depend on which of the pituitary gland hormones are involved, to what extent and for how long. It also depends on whether the hormone deficiencies began as a child or later in adult life.
Hypopituitarism, Panhypopituitarism. The pituitary gland produces a number of hormones, which are released into the blood to control other glands in the body (thyroid, adrenal, ovary or testicles). If the pituitary is not producing one or more of these hormones, the condition is called hypopituitarism. If all the hormones produced by the anterior pituitary are decreased, the condition is called panhypopituitarism. Hypopituitarism is most often caused by large benign tumors of the pituitary gland, or of the brain in the region of the hypothalamus.
Hypopituitary Overview. Hypopituitarism is a condition in which the pituitary gland (a small gland at the base of the brain) does not produce one or more of its hormones or not enough of them. 
In hypopituitarism, there is a lack of one or more pituitary hormones. Lack of the hormone leads to loss of function in the gland or organ that it controls. For example, no TSH leads to loss of function in the thyroid gland. Hypopituitarism may be caused by: 1  Brain surgery. 2  Brain tumor. 3  Head trauma. 
Hypopituitarism. Hypopituitarism is a general term that refers to any under function of the pituitary gland. This is a clinical definition used by endocrinologists and is interpreted to mean that one or more functions of the pituitary are deficient. The term may refer to both anterior and posterior pituitary gland failure. 
Hypopituitarism, also called an underactive pituitary gland, is a condition that affects the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland--usually resulting in a partial or complete loss of functioning of that lobe. The resulting symptoms depend on which hormones are no longer being produced by the gland. 
Alternative names for hypopituitarism ‘Hypopit’; pituitary insufficiency; partial hypopituitarism; panhypopituitarism (‘pan’ referring to all pituitary hormones being affected); anterior hypopituitarism. The signs and symptoms of hypopituitarism depend on which of the pituitary gland hormones are involved, to what extent and for how long. It also depends on whether the hormone deficiencies began as a child or later in adult life.
Hypopituitarism. The pituitary gland produces a number of hormones or chemicals which are released into the blood to control other glands in the body. If the pituitary is not producing one or more of these hormones, or not producing enough, then this condition is known as hypopituitarism. The term Multiple Pituitary Hormone Deficiency (MPHD) is sometimes used to describe the condition when the pituitary is not producing two or more of these hormones
It is responsible for the regulation and secretion of a number of different hormones both in adults and in children. These are described in detail below. Hypopituitarism is a condition in which the pituitary gland does not produce enough of one or more of these hormones. This condition may occur because of disease in the pituitary gland or hypothalamus (a part of the brain that controls the pituitary gland). 