Semi-synthetic opiates are derived from compounds found in the poppy plant which include hydrocodone, oxycodone, hydromorphone and oxymorphone. The term ’opioid’ refers to drugs that are chemically synthesized to mimic the physical effects of pain relief seen with opiates. 1 Codeine is an opiate pain medication. 2  It can commonly be found in prescription cough syrups dispensed for mild to moderate pain, cough and diarrhea. 3  Side effects include dizziness, sleepiness and shortness of breath.
What are opiates?Opiates are powerful drugs derived from the poppy plant that have been used for centuries to relieve pain. Also known as narcotics, opiates can be natural or synthetic. The natural opiates include opium, morphine, and codeine. Other substances, called opioids, are man-made. 
Opioids are substances that act on the nervous system in a similar way to opiates such as morphine and codeine. In a medical context the term usually indicates medications that are artificially made rather than extracted from opium. Although the term opiate is often used as a synonym for opioid, the term opiate is properly limited to the natural alkaloids found in the resin of the Papaver somniferum (opium poppy), while opioid refers to synthetic substances.
Opiates elicit their powerful effects by activating opiate receptors that are widely distributed throughout the brain and body. Once an opiate reaches the brain, it quickly activates the opiate receptors that are found in many brain regions and produces an effect that correlates with the area of the brain involved. Two important effects produced by opiates, such as morphine, are pleasure (or reward) and pain relief. The brain itself also produces substances known as endorphins that activate the opiate receptors.
Description: Heroin is a semi-synthetic opiate derived from morphine or codeine and is the most potent of the opiates. It is typically found in white to brown powdered form and is injected, sniffed, or smoked. In the past, powders sold as illicit heroin typically contained only 1% to 10% of the drug. 
Opiate drugs are those that are derived, either naturally or synthetically, from the opium plant. There are opiate drugs that are illegal, such as heroin, and others that are legally available with a prescription. Opiates are often prescribed to treat pain but many are also effective in treating coughs. 
Opiates are central nervous system depressants which are often used medically to relieve pain. They are from a resin taken from poppy plants found in countries throughout the world, including Mexico, Turkey, India, China, Burma and Yugoslavia. This resin can be converted into opium, heroin, codeine and morphine. Opiates have a high potential for abuse and are found in a variety of forms including: powders, liquids, tablets, syrups, and prescription from a physician such as morphine, codeine and dilaudid. These drugs are used to relieve pain, cough and diarrhea
Opiates in the Human Body Nervous Opiate drugs, such as morphine, heroin, codeine, and opium, are potent painkillers derived from the poppy plant. These drugs alter pain perception, making it easier to tolerate, and elevate mood. 