Here's weather information for Scandinavia, practical climate facts and average temperatures, published to help travelers in Scandinavia. Find out what weather patterns and temperatures to expect in Norway with this guide to average climate and monthly temperatures for each month.
Here are some temperature averages taken across cities in the Scandinavian country of Sweden over 25 years. 1  January - 23 Degrees Fahrenheit (°F). 2  February - 22. 3  March - 29. 4  April - 36. 5  May - 47. 6  June - 55. 7  July - 61. 8  August - 58. 9  September - 51. 10  October - 41. 11  November - 32. 12  December - 26. 
The Scandinavia climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine. Select a region/destination from the list below
Weather and Climate. Sweden enjoys a generally temparate climate, thanks to the Gulf Stream. Above the Arctic Circle, winter can be crisp and invigorating. In the south, winter is generally mild with an average of temperature above 0C/32F degrees, but temperatures can vary markedly in different parts of the country. Sweden's northerly position has a definite summer advantage in that temperatures are rarely extreme and humidity levels are not high.
Stockholm, Sweden has on average the warmest summer of the Nordic countries, with an average maximum temperature of 23 °C (73 °F) in July; Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki have an average July maximum temperature of 22 °C (72 °F). Contents. In January, the average temperature in Norway is somewhere in between −6 °C (21 °F) and 3 °C (37 °F). Like neighboring Norway, Sweden averages −6 °C (21 °F) to 1 °C (34 °F) in the month of January. Swedish areas north of the Arctic Circle rarely see the sun rise, due to the natural phenomenon of the polar night.
Stockholm, Sweden-When To Go. Stockholm starts warming up in May. The warmest time to go--June through August--offers average temperatures near 70. The warmest month is July, which averages 17 days above 70 degrees (along with 20 days of some rain). Stockholm has lots of precipitation throughout the year, so bring your rain gear or buy some in Sweden. Stockholm is the capital of Sweden and a favored destination year round for Scandinavian tourists. In winter, special ice-breaking tour boats can take you around Stockholm. While the average highs of December and January barely break above freezing, Stockholm is prepared for this kind of winter weather.
In Denmark, January temperatures average between −2 °C (28 °F) and 4 °C (39 °F). Denmark's coldest month, however, is February, where the mean temperature is 0 °C (32 °F). The amount of hours of sunlight per day does increase during the month of February for Denmark, where they get seven to eight hours a day. In January, the average temperature in Norway is somewhere in between −6 °C (21 °F) and 3 °C (37 °F). Like neighboring Norway, Sweden averages −6 °C (21 °F) to 1 °C (34 °F) in the month of January. Swedish areas north of the Arctic Circle rarely see the sun rise, due to the natural phenomenon of the polar night.
Stockholm: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Stockholm with an average temperature of 18°C (64°F) and the coldest is January at -3°C (27°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in June. The wettest month is July with an average of 72mm of rain. 
Sweden's many lakes and the gulfs of Bothnia give Sweden generally a relatively mild climate. July temperatures in Sweden average 13 to 17°C. February is usually Sweden's coldest month, with temperatures from - 22 to -3°C. In northern Sweden, winter temperatures often drop to -30°C, sometimes even lower. 