Because of its colourful harmonic changes, Angel Eyes is a very popular jazz standard which has inspired many original interpretations. The song was also sampled by Nas in his single  The Message  from It Was Written (1996), and by Sadistik in his single Angel Eyes, from the 2008 album The Balancing Act.
Angel Eyes  was covered by Australian recording artist Paulini for her debut studio album, One Determined Heart (2004). It was produced by Audius Mtawarira and released physically on July 5, 2004, as the lead single from the album. In a statement posted to her official website, Paulini said 'Angel Eyes' is an amazing song. Audius came up with some great ideas and we did it and it worked. All the instruments are live. Angel Eyes debuted at number two on the ARIA Singles Chart on July 12, 2004. The following week, the song rose to number one, where it remained for three consecutive weeks. Angel Eyes was certified platinum by the ARIA, for shipments of 70,000 copies.
June 29, 2002 | DENNIS McLELLAN | TIMES STAFF WRITER. Matt Dennis, a singer, pianist and composer who wrote Angel Eyes and a handful of other standards recorded by artists ranging from Ella Fitzgerald to Willie Nelson, died of natural causes June 21 in a Riverside hospital. He was 89. Sinatra recorded it right away.. Another of Dennis' big hits, Angel Eyes, took longer to get off the ground. I wrote it in 1947 and had ... a time getting it going, even with monumental starts, he recalled.
Angel Eyes is track #4 on the album Light of the Stable. It was written by Crowell, Rodney J.. Angel Eyes is track #4 on the album Light of the Stable. It was written by Crowell, Rodney J.. Submit Corrections Cancel. (Rodney Crowell). Angel eyes, angel eyes. The ways of the world are feeble. Don't give up on simple people. Angel eyes....... The blues you can live wthoutIt's not what you song's about
Angel Eyes  is a 1946 popular song composed by Matt Dennis, with lyrics by Earl Brent. It was featured in the 1953 film Jennifer. First edition by Dorsey Bros Music a Div. of Music Sales Corp (ASCAP) 1946 (Renewed). The song was also sampled by Nas in his single  The Message  from It Was Written (1996), and by Sadistik in his single Angel Eyes, from the 2008 album The Balancing Act.
Angel Eyes  is a song written by John Hiatt and Fred Koller, produced by Greg Ladanyi for The Jeff Healey Band 's first album See the Light (1988). Angel Eyes debuted at number two on the ARIA Singles Chart on July 12, 2004. The following week, the song rose to number one, where it remained for three consecutive weeks. Angel Eyes was certified platinum by the ARIA, for shipments of 70,000 copies.
Ella Fitzgerald, who recorded Angel Eyes at least four times, named it as her all-time favorite song. In 1971, when Sinatra held what he intended to be his farewell concert (and the end to his show business career), he closed with Angel Eyes. His retirement lasted only two years. The song was also sampled by Nas in his single  The Message  from It Was Written (1996), and by Sadistik in his single Angel Eyes, from the 2008 album The Balancing Act.
It is performed by Survivor, with the song being written by request of Sly Stallone himelf. He wanted a boxing theme song, and, boy, did he get one! The correct answer t … o who wrote the song Eye of the Tiger is the band Survivor. The band members of Survivor include Frankie Sullivan and Jim Peterik.
Irish Angel was written by Bruce McCabe, Jonny Lang's pianist/keyboard player. It was written as a demo song for Jonny and performed in concert by him -- beautifully, Irish … Angel was also released on Bruce McCabe's eponymous solo album. He wanted a boxing theme song, and, boy, did he get one! The correct answer t … o who wrote the song Eye of the Tiger is the band Survivor. The band members of Survivor include Frankie Sullivan and Jim Peterik.