Click on a song that you want to delete off your iPod and press backspace or delete on your keyboard. A note might come up saying something like do you want to delete songs from your iPod shuffle, press yes.Hope it helps. 
6. Delete all of your music. If you want to clear all of the music on your device, tap the - next to All Songs and then tap the Delete button that appears. If you don't want to delete all of your music, see the next step. 7. Delete individual songs, albums, or artists. Select your iPod from the row of buttons along the top of iTunes. If you are using iTunes 11, select it from the Devices menu. This should open the Summary tab. 4. Check the Manually manage music box at the bottom of the Summary screen. Click Apply. This will allow you to pick and choose songs to delete.
Perform a master reset on your iPod Touch to erase the memory and restore original settings. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images News/Getty Images. You can erase all the memory off of your iPad Touch without the password by connecting the device to iTunes, and then placing the device in the Device Firmware Update mode. Step 2. Press and hold the “Home” key and the “Power” button on the iPod Touch. The screen goes black and the device powers off. Related Reading: How to Recover a Yahoo Email Password From an iPod Touch. Step 3. Release the “Power” button while continuing to press the “Home” key.
Get help. Erasing all content and settings on an iPhone 3G or earlier and iPod touch (2nd generation or earlier) can take several hours. Before erasing one of these devices, connect your device to a charger and leave it connected until your device resets. Erase all content and settings on your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Apple Watch. Learn how to erase your device. You can use the steps below to restore your device to factory settings and remove all settings and information. Depending on your device, it can take a few minutes to completely erase your data
On those rare occasions when you want to erase all the music, audiobooks, games, and any other files on your iPod, the solution is to restore the iPod disk to factory settings. Once you follow these steps, all the songs, games, audiobooks, and other files will be deleted permanently from your iPod. iPod. Tips & Warnings. 1  These instructions apply to the erasing the music from the iPod, the iPod classic, the iPod mini and the iPod nano. 2  During the restore, don't worry if you can barely see the progress bar. 3  That's normal when the light is off.
Instructions. Make sure iTunes is downloaded on your computer. Open iTunes. Connect the iPod to the computer via the USB port or FireWire cable. From the Source section, click on your iPod when it appears. Click Restore. Choose the version of iPod software you want to overwrite the iPod disk. Log in as an administrator if you get that prompt (Mac users only). Tips & Warnings. 1  These instructions apply to the erasing the music from the iPod, the iPod classic, the iPod mini and the iPod nano. 2  During the restore, don't worry if you can barely see the progress bar. 3  That's normal when the light is off.
1 To delete all of the songs from an artist, tap the Edit button, tap the red - next to the artist's name, and then tap the Delete button that appears. 2  If you want to delete an album or an individual song, turn Edit mode off so you can navigate through your music. Select your iPod from the row of buttons along the top of iTunes. If you are using iTunes 11, select it from the Devices menu. This should open the Summary tab. 4. Check the Manually manage music box at the bottom of the Summary screen. Click Apply. This will allow you to pick and choose songs to delete.
If you’re selling your iPod, you will want to wipe all the music, videos and personal pictures from it. Unlike a classic iPod, which requires a computer to erase its songs, the Touch’s Settings app lets you conveniently remove all content without a computer and iTunes. Step 1. Plug the iPod Touch into a charger to ensure the music player does not run down its battery during the erasure process. How to Erase Everything on an iPod Without a Computer & iTunes. Erasing a secondhand iPod frees up its memory for your music. Todd Warnock/Lifesize/Getty Images. In some circumstances, it is necessary to erase everything from an iPod Touch.