Abstract. Filopodia and lamellipodia are dynamic membrane protrusions of the cell edge. Their activity is largely responsible for the forward progression of the anterior edge of migrating cells. Both lamellipodia and filopodia generate pushing force using the same molecular strategy, coordinated polymerization of multiple interconnected actin filaments. Acting as a cohort, actin filaments can achieve necessary stiffness to produce large forces.
Actin polymerization-driven protrusion of the leading edge is a key element of cell motility. The important actin nucleators formins and the Arp2/3 complex are believed to have nonoverlapping functions in inducing actin filament bundles in filopodia and dendritic networks in lamellipodia, respectively. The concept of functional separation of Arp2/3 complex and formins during leading-edge protrusion to generate dendritic networks in lamellipodia and parallel bundles in filopodia, respectively, is challenged by the observation that filopodia may arise by reorganization of the lamellipodial network [ 10, 19, 20 ].
We next asked whether mDia2 roles in lamellipodia and filopodia are related. Kinetic analysis of filopodia initiation showed that virtually all δGBD-mDia2–induced filopodia formed from δGBD-mDia2–positive lamellipodia (Figure 8; Video S5). The concept of functional separation of Arp2/3 complex and formins during leading-edge protrusion to generate dendritic networks in lamellipodia and parallel bundles in filopodia, respectively, is challenged by the observation that filopodia may arise by reorganization of the lamellipodial network [ 10, 19, 20 ].
A lamellipodium separated from the main part of a cell by scratching across the cell with a pipette tip can continue to crawl freely about on its own. Lamellipodia are a characteristic feature at the front, leading edge, of motile cells. Arp2/3 complexes are present at microfilament-microfilament junctions in lamellipodia, and help create the actin meshwork. Arp 2/3 can only join onto previously existing microfilaments, but once bound it creates a site for the extension of new microfilaments, which creates branching (Weed, et al., 2000).
Abstract. Lamellipodia formation necessary for cell invasion is regulated by Rac1. We report here that lamellipodia formation and three-dimensional invasion were significantly promoted by HGF and serum, respectively, in invasive human breast cancer cells. Further clarification of the mechanisms by which PI3K activation induces the release of IQGAP1 and kinesin heavy chain from Rac1 and serum promotes three-dimensional cell invasion should lead to an increased understanding of the regulation of lamellipodia formation and cell invasion.
To understand the mechanism of lamellipodia-to-filopodia transition, we performed correlative EM for cells with known live history (Figure 8 B– 8 J; Video S7 – S9). Figure 8 shows two examples of filopodia formed during live imaging. The concept of functional separation of Arp2/3 complex and formins during leading-edge protrusion to generate dendritic networks in lamellipodia and parallel bundles in filopodia, respectively, is challenged by the observation that filopodia may arise by reorganization of the lamellipodial network [ 10, 19, 20 ].
The lamellipodium (plural lamellipodia) (from Latin Lamina - thin sheet, pod - foot) is a cytoskeletal protein actin projection on the leading edge of the cell. It contains a quasi-two-dimensional actin mesh; the whole structure propels the cell across a substrate (Alberts, et al., 2002). Within the lamellipodia are ribs of actin called microspikes, which, when they spread beyond the lamellipodium frontier, are called filopodia (Small, et al., 2002). Arp2/3 complexes are present at microfilament-microfilament junctions in lamellipodia, and help create the actin meshwork. Arp 2/3 can only join onto previously existing microfilaments, but once bound it creates a site for the extension of new microfilaments, which creates branching (Weed, et al., 2000).
Quantitation of changes in cell shape using computerized image analysis demonstrated that PDGF doubled the total projected area of lamellipodia formed by each cell within 5 min of addition and increased it by almost 10-fold at 30 min (Fig. 3 ⇓ A). To determine relative changes in lamellipodia length in different regions of the cell, corners were defined as parts of the square perimeter within 6 μm from the intersection of the two sides; sides were defined as the 18 μm interval between these corner regions.
Second, we discovered a novel mechanism of lamellipodia-to-filopodia transformation during bridge formation. Two previous models of filopodia formation were formulated for filopodia emerging from the free leading edge of migrating cells (Yang and Svitkina, 2011). Our data reveal a mechanism of cell–cell junction formation in endothelial cells using lamellipodia as the initial protrusive contact, subsequently transforming into filopodia-like bridges connected through adherens junctions.
Lamellipodia formation and movement ceased after tension generation was suppressed using the more specific ROCK inhibitor Y27632 or by chelating intracellular calcium using BAPTA-AM (not shown). Thus, cytoskeleton-based tractional forces appear to play a key role in control of lamellipodia extension. To determine relative changes in lamellipodia length in different regions of the cell, corners were defined as parts of the square perimeter within 6 μm from the intersection of the two sides; sides were defined as the 18 μm interval between these corner regions.