Wesley has 1 feminine form: Weslee. Wesley is a very prominent first name for males (#171 out of 1220, Top 14%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#1512 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Wesley for boys. Wesley /wes-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced WEZ-lee, WES-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Wesley is western meadow. Place name; variant of the English surname Westley. Used in honor of brothers John and Charles Wesley, 18th-century founders of Methodism, a Protestant Christian denomination. Actors Wesley Snipes, Wes Bentley
It ranked 3628 in popular baby names for girls with 43 occurrences. View the Wesley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Wesley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Wesley to other names. Wesley is a variant spelling of Westley. Variants of the name Wesley include Westley. Wesley is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Wes-ley. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 130 in baby name popularity for boys with 3112
Meaning of name Wesley. Etymology: From a surname which was derived from a place name meaning west meadow in Old English. Saint : Origin: English. 
Meaning of Wesley. English name. In English, the name Wesley means-From the west meadow. John and Charles Wesley were the founders of Methodism.. Other origins for the name Wesley include-English, German.The name Wesley is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-From the west meadow. John and Charles Wesley were the founders of Methodism. 
View the Wesley Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Wesley has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Wesley to other names. Wesley is a variant spelling of Westley. Wesley is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Wes-ley. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 130 in baby name popularity for boys with 3112 occurrences.
Westley /west-ley/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Westley's root is Old English, and the meaning of the name Westley is western meadow. Westley is a version of Wesley (Old English): place name. Westlie is a common last name. Kreatif forms: Welstley, Wheestley, Whistley. 
Eyesight Versus Brain. A baby’s eyesight is sharper than his brain. A baby is able to see everything as an adult who has good eyesight, but since the processing of the brain is slow, they are not able to comprehend each and every thing clearly. Twin baby facts. If you want to know where in the world are the highest chances of giving birth to twins, the answer is West Africa. Similarly, the country which has the least chances of giving birth to twins is Japan.
Mary Ann replied: Bonnie —. See if there is a St. Wesley that he is named after, or see if Wesley is also a derivation of Wenceslaus, a king and saint. If not, surely he has another name, because generally for Baptism. a saint's name or religious name is also required. 