Set your Crock Pot on high to reach a simmer point of 209 degrees F in 3 to 4 hours, or low to reach the same cooking temperature in 7 to 8 hours. The total time it takes to cook an arm roast depends on its size. A 3- to 4-lb. chuck roast takes 5 to 6 hours on high and 10 to 12 hours on low. Chuck roasts usually contain enough marbled fat to cook without water, but most Crock-Pot roast recipes call for a little liquid. Most importantly, resist the temptation to lift the lid while your roast is cooking.
1 Coat a large skillet with cooking oil. Over medium heat, brown roast on both sides. 2) Add potatoes, onions, carrots, and then arm roast to the crockpot. 3) Combine soup mix with water and pour over pot roast. 4) Cooked covered on LOW 8-10 hrs or until tender. 5) Remove the roast and vegetables; keep warm. 6) Blend 2 tbsp flour with the ¼ cup water then thicken the gravy. Cook on HIGH until thickened
Serve gravy with the meat and the vegetables. How to Make a Pot Roast -- Oven Directions. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Prepare as directed above, except in Step 3, bake pot roast, covered, for 1 hour. Add the vegetables and potatoes as directed. Cover and bake 45 to 60 minutes more or until the meat is tender. Prepare the gravy in a saucepan as directed in Step 7. 
up vote 2 down vote. i love arm roasts! when i get them i put them in the crockpot with 1/2 cup of water and cook on low for 6 hours. then i pull it out, shred it with forks, put it back in the crockpot, cover it with a bottle of barbeque sauce, and let it rewarm for about 30 minutes. Most importantly, I cooked it very long and slow, about 5 hours at 300F. 1  Chop 1 carrot, 1 celery stalk, half an onion and a slice or two of bacon and saute them together in a large pot until lightly browned. 2  Remove from pot. 3  Salt and pepper the arm roast and then brown it on both sides in that same pot. 4  Remove.
Line baking dish with foil (enough to also cover roast). Place roast in foil lined pan. Add mushroom soup. Sprinkle the onion soup mix over the mushroom soup. Fold ends of foil together to cover the roast. Place in preheated 300 degree oven for 2 1/2 to 3 hours. About 50 minutes per pound. 
Best Answer: I'm assuming you're talking about a beef arm roast. This cut of meat is from the Chuck (shoulder) and is best cooked using a wet method, such as, stewing or braised, as in a pot roast. Dry roasting in the oven will lead to kind of a tough piece of meat. Instead, use a dutch oven or a covered baking pan. season the beef, cut up some veggies-potatos, carrots, celery and onions, add a can of beef broth... cover and bake in the oven at 325 for 3 to 4 hours. 
Put the lid on, then roast in a 275-degree oven for 3 hours, for a 3 pound roast. For a 4 to 5 pound roast, plan on 4 hours. And don’t peek and fiddle and frig with it, either. Just find a hobby that will occupy your thoughts and actions for the time it takes for your roast to cook. 
1 Put the pot in a 300 degree oven for as long as it takes for the meat to just be falling apart. 2  It was like, 5 hours for me, and I turned the roast over about 2 hours in. 3  Add more liquid if needed; I didn't. Most importantly, I cooked it very long and slow, about 5 hours at 300F. 1  Chop 1 carrot, 1 celery stalk, half an onion and a slice or two of bacon and saute them together in a large pot until lightly browned. 2  Remove from pot. 3  Salt and pepper the arm roast and then brown it on both sides in that same pot. 4  Remove.
Considerations. The total time it takes to cook an arm roast depends on its size. A 3- to 4-lb. chuck roast takes 5 to 6 hours on high and 10 to 12 hours on low. Chuck roasts usually contain enough marbled fat to cook without water, but most Crock-Pot roast recipes call for a little liquid. Most importantly, resist the temptation to lift the lid while your roast is cooking.
Line baking dish ... to also cover roast). Place roast ... the roast. Place in preheated 300 degree oven for 2 1/2 to 3 hours. About 50 minutes per pound. Trim all excess fat from roast. Place potatoes ... Crockery Pot on top of potatoes and onions. Cover and cook on low setting for 10 to 12 hours (high 5 to 6).