Echinoderms exhibit a type of radial symmetry called pentamerous symmetry in which their body can be divided into five equal parts around a central axis. Echinoderms developed this symmetry after they had already diverged from their bilaterally symmetrical ancestors. Echinoderms (Echinodermata) are a group of marine invertebrates that includes star fish, sea lilies, feather stars, brittle stars, sea cucumbers and sea urchins.
Starfishes, sea urchins, and sea lilies all belong to the phylum echinodermata. Like some other invertebrates, echinoderms live their lives entirely in water. They can be recognized by their spiny skin and by their five part radial symmetry. Thier is five kind of Echinoderms, their is sea stars, brittle stars, sea cucumbers, sea urchins, and sand dollars. 3 people found this useful.
Symmetry. Echinoderms and chordates have different types of symmetry, one of their most obvious differences. Chordates like humans have bilateral symmetry, which means you can divide them into a left and right half, and that they have a defined top, bottom, front and back. At the same time, a few echinoderms like the sand dollar have bilateral symmetry. Scientists believe that echinoderms evolved from animals with bilateral symmetry. One of the oldest fossil echinoderms, the Homalozoa, has
The more notably distinct trait, which most echinoderms have, is their remarkable powers of regeneration of tissue, organs, limbs, and of asexual reproduction, and in some cases, complete regeneration from a single limb. The planktotrophic larva is considered to be the ancestral larval type for echinoderms but after 500 million years of larval evolution, about 68% of species whose development is known have a lecithotrophic larval type.
Echinoderms are characterized by their radial symmetry, water vascular system and internal skeleton. The most striking feature of all echinoderms is their pentamerous radial symmetry. That is, the body can be divided into five parts (or appendages) which point outward from the center of the body. Interestingly, although most mature echinoderms are radially symmetrical, the larvae usually have bilateral symmetry. Sea stars, also known as “starfish”, are probably the most well known echinoderm of the sea. The common name ‘starfish’ is quickly being replaced by the more accurate term ‘sea star’. Since starfish have no relation to fish, the term ‘sea star’ is preferable.
However, the radial symmetry in echinoderms is secondary radial symmetry, since their larval stage has bilateral symmetry and the radial pattern appears only in adult specimens (there are a few adult echinoderms with lateral symmetry). The main features of echinoderms. Examples of representative species: sea cucumbers, sea urchins, starfish. Basic morphology: calcareous endoskeleton with spines, ambulacral system. Type of symmetry: secondary radial.
The adults are recognizable by their (usually five-point) radial symmetry, and include such well-known animals as starfish, sea urchins, sand dollars, and sea cucumbers, as well as the sea lilies or stone lilies. Echinoderms are found at every ocean depth, from the intertidal zone to the abyssal zone. The planktotrophic larva is considered to be the ancestral larval type for echinoderms but after 500 million years of larval evolution, about 68% of species whose development is known have a lecithotrophic larval type.
Aside from the hard-to-classify Arkarua (a Precambrian animal with echinoderm-like pentamerous radial symmetry), the first definitive members of the phylum appeared near the start of the Cambrian. The echinoderms are important both biologically and geologically. The planktotrophic larva is considered to be the ancestral larval type for echinoderms but after 500 million years of larval evolution, about 68% of species whose development is known have a lecithotrophic larval type.
Echinoderms evolved from animals with bilateral symmetry. Although adult echinoderms possess pentaradial, or five-sided, symmetry, echinoderm larvae are ciliated, free-swimming organisms that organize in bilateral symmetry which makes them look like embryonic chordates. The planktotrophic larva is considered to be the ancestral larval type for echinoderms but after 500 million years of larval evolution, about 68% of species whose development is known have a lecithotrophic larval type.
An echinoderm is a sea animal that has a hard spiny shell, or exoskeleton. Echinoderms display radial symmetry, having 5 similar body extensions from a central point.  The se … ven classes of echinoderms are brittle stars, basket stars, sea urchins, sand dollars, sea lilies, feather stars, and sea cucumbers. Echinoderms have swimming larvae that are bilaterally symmetrical, with left and right sides, but they do not 'develop into' bottom-living adult echinoderms, which are radiall … y symmetrical, often star-shaped. The juvenile (young adult), radial from the start, grows from a group of stem cells within the larva.