Photorespiration, or 'photo-respiration', is a process in plant metabolism. A sugar has oxygen added to it by the enzyme (RuBisCO), instead of carbon dioxide during normal photosynthesis. This process reduces efficiency of photosynthesis. Photorespiration can occur when carbon dioxide levels are low, for example, when the stomata are closed to prevent water loss during drought.
Photorespiration is a process of metabolic pathway that consumes oxygen, releases carbon dioxide, generates no ATP, and decreases photosynthetic output; generally occurs on hot, dry, bright days, when stomata close and the oxygen concentration in the leaf exceeds that of carbon dioxide. Photorespiration occurs because Rubisco can utilize O2 as a substrate instead of CO2. It means when stomata partially close on hot day, dry day, CO2 levels drop as CO­2 is consumed in the Calvin cycle.
C. Photorespiration occurs when a plant uses sunlight to run the... show more A. Photorespiration occurs when a plant needs the energy carriers from the light reactions immediately and bypasses the Calvin cycle. B. Photorespiration occurs when a plant runs out of CO2 and uses O2 to create sugar in the Calvin cycle. C. Photorespiration occurs when a plant uses sunlight to run the reactions of respiration instead of sugar. D. Photorespiration occurs when a plant runs out of CO2 and begins adding O2 to RuBP in the Calvin cycle. 
Photorespiration is a process of metabolic pathway that consumes oxygen, releases carbon dioxide, generates no ATP, and decreases photosynthetic output; generally occurs … on hot, dry, bright days, when stomata close and the oxygen concentration in the leaf exceeds that of carbon dioxide. Photorespiration occurs when a plant runs out of CO2 and begins adding O2 to RuBP in the Calvin cycle.
Simplified photorespiration and Calvin cycle. Photorespiration (also known as the oxidative photosynthetic carbon cycle, or C2 photosynthesis) is a process in plant metabolism which attempts to reduce the consequences of a wasteful oxygenation reaction by the enzyme RuBisCO. Photorespiration also incurs a direct cost of one ATP and one NAD(P)H. While it is common to refer to the entire process as photorespiration, technically the term refers only to the metabolic network which acts to rescue the products of the oxygenation reaction (phosphoglycolate).
Photorespiration is a problem for plants in hot, dry conditions. When it is hot and dry, plants close their stomatato conserve water. As a result, oxygen from the light-dependent reactions accumulates in leaf tissues. Photorespiration occurs when oxygen levels in the leaf are high relative to carbon dioxide levels. Some groups of plants have adapted to these conditions by using alternative pathways to fix carbon. C4and CAM plants avoid photorespiration in different ways. C4plants use spatial separation.
Photorespiration is a problem for plants in hot, dry conditions. When it is hot and dry, plants close their stomata to conserve water. As a result, oxygen from the light-dependent reactions accumulates in leaf tissues. Oxygen competes with carbon dioxide for the binding site on rubisco. Photorespiration occurs when oxygen levels in the leaf are high relative to carbon dioxide levels. Some groups of plants have adapted to these conditions by using alternative pathways to fix carbon. C4and CAM plants avoid photorespiration in different ways. C4plants use spatial separation.
Definition of PHOTORESPIRATION. : a light-dependent process in some plants resulting in the oxidation of glycolic acid and release of carbon dioxide that under some environmental conditions (as high temperature) tends to inhibit photosynthesis. ADVERTISEMENT