Kōkutsu-dachi (後屈立, back long stance). This is a mirror image of zenkutsu-dachi, where the rear leg is bent strongly at the knee and the front leg is either straight or slightly bent, depending on the style. The rear foot is turned 90 degrees to the side. The body is turned 90 degrees or more away, except for the head which looks to the front. Zenkutsu-dachi is one of the most common stances in kata. Nekoashi-dachi (猫足立, cat foot stance). All weight rests on the back leg, which is bent at the knee. The rear foot is turned at about 20-30 degrees out and the knee sits at the same angle.
Stances: Fudo Dachi. Fudo Dachi (or rooted stance) is one of the more advanced stances a student will learn in Shotokan. It is first encountered in black belt katas such as Chinte, and is the characteristic stance of the kata Sochin. Practicing in this strong stance is great for developing strength in the legs
Ippon-ashi-dachi (One leg stance). This one-leg stance can be used to block kicks. Ippon-ashi-dachi is formed by balancing on one leg. Turn the balancing foot outward about 45°. Raise the other leg off the floor. Keeping the thigh and foot of the raised leg parellel to the floor and the other foot.
http://karateclassesonline.com Karate stances video. Shotokan stances. Fudo dachi (immovable stance). This is one of the more advanced shotokan stances, that is practiced in shotokan karate dojo. 1  Sports. 2  Standard YouTube License
1 Shiko Dachi: Sumo or square stance. 2  Also referred to as Sheiko Dachi. 3  It is similar... 4  Shizen Dachi: Natural stance, shoulder width, toes out as much as 45 degrees,... 5  Sochin Dachi : + Redirect to Fudo Dachi-Redirect to Fudo Dachi Immovable (or... 1 Also referred to as Sheiko Dachi. 2  It is similar... 3  Shizen Dachi: Natural stance, shoulder width, toes out as much as 45 degrees,... 4
Zenkutsu-dachi (前屈立, forward stance). This is a long frontal stance where the weight is mostly on the front leg. It has exactly the same height as shiko-dachi, but the rear leg is completely straight at the knee and extended back. Zenkutsu-dachi is one of the most common stances in kata. Nekoashi-dachi (猫足立, cat foot stance). All weight rests on the back leg, which is bent at the knee. The rear foot is turned at about 20-30 degrees out and the knee sits at the same angle.
You can win prizes, highlight your martial arts blog or school on the wiki & much more. So please join our Black Belt Wiki Community. Instructions for a Shotokan Immovable Stance or Fudo Dachi. This page provides details on how to do a Shotokan immovable stance. This stance is known as Fudo Dachi in Japanese. This Shotokan stance is used in katas, basic kicking techniques, etc. For additional stance information, please visit the main Shotokan Stances section. Instructional Video for a Shotokan Immovable Stance or Fudo Dachi. Written Instructions for Stance. 1  Members-Please add written instructions for this stance here. 
Sensei Y.Katsumata teaching the invisible rules of fudo-dachi to sensei anthimos and his instractors. 1  Sports. 2  Standard YouTube License. Sensei Y.Katsumata teaching the invisible rules of fudo-dachi to sensei anthimos and his instractors. Category. License.
1 Also referred to as Tachi when used at the start of a... 2  Fudo Dachi: Immovable (or deeply rooted) stance. 3  Also known as Sochin Dachi. ... 4  Hachiji Dachi: Figure Eight Stance, shoulder width, toes turning out as far as 45... 5  Hangetsu Dachi: Crescent moon, or grounded stance. 1 Also referred to as Sheiko Dachi. 2  It is similar... 3  Shizen Dachi: Natural stance, shoulder width, toes out as much as 45 degrees,... 4  Sochin Dachi : + Redirect to Fudo Dachi-Redirect to Fudo Dachi Immovable (or...