Petaling Jaya Hilton, the first international-class hotel in PJ, is found here. Subang Jaya, on the other hand, has gone on to establish itself as the satellite town of PJ. The old Subang International Airport lies just a few kilometres away. Relentless progress continued and by 1977, when it was conferred the Petaling Jaya Municipal Council (MPPJ) status, it had grown into an expansive town that included Seksyen 52, the Sungai Way-Subang (SS) area and the new township of Subang Jaya.
Petaling Jaya (commonly called  PJ  by locals) is a major Malaysian city originally developed as a satellite township for Kuala Lumpur. It is located in the Petaling district of Selangor with an area of approximately 97.2 square kilometres (37.5 sq mi). Petaling Jaya was granted city status on 20 June 2006. Petaling Jaya is surrounded by the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur to the east, the Gombak District to the north, the capital of Selangor, Shah Alam to the west and Subang Jaya to the south. The Petaling Jaya Town Authority headed by N.A.J. Kennedy commenced administrating Petaling Jaya in 1954. On 24 August 1959, Encik Abdul Aziz bin Haji Mohd Ali became the first Malayan to head the PJ Authority.
While the state itself has a long history, the birth of Petaling Jaya, fondly known as PJ among the locals, did not come until early 1950s. Petaling Jaya was born as Malaysia's first satellite town to support the fast developing Kuala Lumpur, an economic hub since the 1850s. As you approach the third interchange on the Federal Highway, the city's first international class hotel, Petaling Jaya Hilton, will be on the horizon. A left turn here will bring you to one half of Seksyen 52.
Being centrally located between Port Klang and Petaling Jaya and a mere 30km away from Kuala Lumpur, the site was chosen following a proposal by V Antonic, an advisor of the United Nations Town Developer. Shah Alam became the state capital on 7 December 1978. Relentless progress continued and by 1977, when it was conferred the Petaling Jaya Municipal Council (MPPJ) status, it had grown into an expansive town that included Seksyen 52, the Sungai Way-Subang (SS) area and the new township of Subang Jaya.
In this development effort, the government adopted the British urban development system and legislation. Petaling Jaya (PJ), the first new town in Malaysia, was designed in accordance with the British town planning principles, which were based on the model of a modern ideal city. The first type of new towns such as Petaling Jaya, Shah Alam, and Bangi were developed with the main purpose of solving urban problems related to the congestion of a metropolitan city. These new towns built on the outskirts of metropolises were located within 10 to 30km from the city.
Until the end of 1953, the town was administered by the Kuala Lumpur district officer. The Petaling Jaya Town Authority headed by N.A.J. Kennedy commenced administrating Petaling Jaya in 1954. On 24 August 1959, Encik Abdul Aziz bin Haji Mohd Ali became the first Malayan to head the PJ Authority.
Tweet. The best suburb to visit in Kuala Lumpur is Petaling Jaya, known to locals simply as PJ. Established in the 1950s on the hacked-away remains of rubber plantations, it now has a population of more than 500,000 people, with each of Malaysia’s three main ethnicities -- Malay, Chinese and Indian -- well represented. Grabbing a morning coffee is a perfect excuse to check out PJ’s Old Town, in Section 1 to see plenty of kopi tiams -- coffee shops -- and one of the city’s liveliest morning markets. More info: Petaling Jaya’s Old Town Market is known officially as Pasan Besar Jalan Othman.
Being centrally located between Port Klang and Petaling Jaya and a mere 30km away from Kuala Lumpur, the site was chosen following a proposal by V Antonic, an advisor of the United Nations Town Developer. Shah Alam became the state capital on 7 December 1978. As you approach the third interchange on the Federal Highway, the city's first international class hotel, Petaling Jaya Hilton, will be on the horizon. A left turn here will bring you to one half of Seksyen 52.
Malaysia. Petaling Jaya is an urban city in the heart of Selangor, originally a satellite township of Kuala Lumpur that now comprises part of the greater Klang Valley Metropolitan Area with KL, Subang Jaya, Shah Alam, Putrajaya, Ampang, Rawang, Semenyih and Klang. In 2006, PJ was officially accorded city status by state government and Cabinet approval. Location & Travel Tips. Petaling Jaya is geographically the heart of Klang Valley, a buffer zone between Kuala Lumpur at east and Klang at west, and Rawang at north and Putrajaya at south.