Copernican heliocentrism is the name given to the astronomical model developed by Nicolaus Copernicus and published in 1543. It positioned the Sun near the center of the Universe, motionless, with Earth and the other planets rotating around it in circular paths modified by epicycles and at uniform speeds. The Copernican model departed from the Ptolemaic system that prevailed in Western culture for centuries, placing Earth at the center of the Universe, and is often regarded as the launching point to modern astronomy and the Scientific Revolution.
A Geocentric theory is an astronomical theory which describes the universe as a Geocentric system, i.e., a system which puts the Earth in the center of the universe, and describes other objects from the point of view of the Earth. 
The heliocentric model is a theory that places the Sun as the center of the universe, and the planets orbiting around it. The heliocentric model replaced geocentrism, which is the belief that the Earth is the center of the universe. The geocentric model was the prevailing theory in Ancient Greece, throughout Europe, and other parts of the world for centuries. Universe Today also has a number of articles on the heliocentric model including Galileo an advocate of the heliocentric model and the heliocentric model. Astronomy Cast also has an episode about
Heliocentrism, or heliocentricism, is the astronomical model in which the Earth and planets revolve around the Sun at the center of the Solar System. The non-geocentric model of the Universe was proposed by the Pythagorean philosopher Philolaus (d. 390 BC). According to Philolaus, there was at the center of the Universe a central fire around which the Earth, Sun, Moon and Planets revolved in uniform circular motion.
Report Abuse. The idea that the sun is the center of the universe. Of course, it's not, but it IS the center of the solar system. This theory overturned the geocentric universe model, which said that Earth was the center of the Universe. Three apparent proofs of the heliocentric hypothesis were provided in 1727 by Bradley, in 1838 by Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel and in 1851 by Foucault. Bessel proved that parallax of a star was greater than zero. He measured the parallax of 0.314 arcseconds of a star named 61 Cygni.
The word heliocentric is a Greek word meaning, 'with the sun at the center.' It refers to the heliocentric model of the solar system credited to the brilliant German-Polish Astronomer, Nicolaus Kopernik, most commonly known in English by the latinized form of his name Copernicus.. The heliocentric model places the Sun at the center of a Solar System with planets travelling around it in circular orbits, at increasing distances. It replaced the earlier Ptolomic model which had been handed down from Ancient Greek and Islamic astronomers.
The geocentric theory was the model that the earth is at the center of the universe, and everything (sun, stars,moon,ect.) revolve around it daily. It was disproven about 500 … years ago by Copernipus in favor of the heliocentric model which said that the earth went around the sun. 30 people found this useful. The heliocentric model places the Sun at the center of a Solar System with planets travelling around it in circular orbits, at increasing distances. It replaced the earlier Ptolomic model which had been handed down from Ancient Greek and Islamic astronomers.