Kimberly /kim-ber-ly/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Kimberly) is pronounced KIM-ber-lee. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Kimberly is Cyneburg's field. Place name and surname: Cyneburg was an Old English personal name meaning  royal forest .
The name Kim is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kim is: Noble or brave. English Meaning: The name Kim is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kim is: Bold family. Bold kin. Famous Bearer: The hero of Rudyard Kipling's novel 'Kim'. Welsh Meaning: The name Kim is a Wel
Kim is a very prominent first name for women (#118 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#109 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Kim for girls.
Kim /kim/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Kim) is pronounced kim. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Kim is Cyneburg's field. Short form of Kimberly, used as an independent name since the mid 20th century, influenced by actresses Kim Novak and Kim Basinger. Kim is also a Korean name meaning gold. Actress Kim Catrall.
American Meaning: The name Kim is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kim is: Noble or brave. English Meaning: The name Kim is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kim is: Bold family. Bold kin. Famous Bearer: The hero of Rudyard Kipling's novel 'Kim'. Welsh Meaning: The name Kim is a Wel
The name Kimberly is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kimberly is: From the wood of the royal forest. From the royal fortress meadow. A surname and place name that can be used for both genders, although it is more commonly used as a girl's name.
English Meaning: The name Kimberly is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kimberly is: From the wood of the royal forest. From the royal fortress meadow. A surname and place name that can be used for both genders, although it is more commonly used as a girl's name. American Meaning: