Jones, an original member of hip hop collective The Diplomats (also known as Dipset), is also the co-CEO of Diplomat Records, alongside longtime friend and fellow Harlem-bred rapper, Cam'ron. Jim Jones also showed his acting skills on the show Crash: The Series. Jim Jones appeared on Season 5, episode 8 of the critically acclaimed TV drama The Wire on HBO on August 29, 2009. He is seen as one of Marlo Stanfield's henchmen.
1.Hardest rap group out of Harlem and the best out since the Harlem Rennassaince. Started by Killa Cam and Jim Jones. Operated in NYC Diplomat Records. 
dipset. Dipset. The Diplomats, a Harlem NY based record label consisting of: Cam`ron, Jim Jones, Freekey Zekey, Juelz Santana, J.R. Writer, Hell Rell, 40 Cal, and Jha Jha.. Even though there shit might not ryhme/make sense more than half the time and dipset is said every other word.
The group was originally composed of members Cam'ron, Jim Jones and Freekey Zekey, all of whom grew up together in Harlem. In 1999, fellow Harlem-based rapper Juelz Santana was added to the group. Diplomats reunion (2010–present) [edit]. In April 2010, Cam'ron and Jim Jones announced the end of their feud. In June 2010, the Dipset reunion began with a teaser titled Under Construction and a street single, Salute, produced by AraabMuzik. The song features Jim Jones, Cam'ron and Juelz Santana
Dipset. Harlem born and bred and friends since youth, Dipset, also known as The Diplomats, were formed in 1997 by Cam'ron (Cameron Giles) and Jim Jones. Although the original members include Cam'Ron, Jones and Freekey Zekey (Ezekiel Giles), Juelz Santana (LaRon James) joined in 1999. Together they released the hit single Dipset Anthem, which was featured on the 2003 album Diplomatic Immunity.
In April 2010, Cam'ron and Jim Jones announced they ended their feud. On June 26, 2010 Jones reunited with Cam'ron and Juelz Santana on a track titled Salute, marking the return of The Diplomats. They have begun working on an album together, and have been reportedly working with Dr. Dre. Jim Jones also showed his acting skills on the show Crash: The Series. Jim Jones appeared on Season 5, episode 8 of the critically acclaimed TV drama The Wire on HBO on August 29, 2009. He is seen as one of Marlo Stanfield's henchmen.
The Diplomats (popularly known as Dipset), are an American hip hop group founded in 1997 by Cam'ron and Jim Jones, in Harlem, New York City. Diplomats reunion (2010–present) [edit]. In April 2010, Cam'ron and Jim Jones announced the end of their feud. In June 2010, the Dipset reunion began with a teaser titled Under Construction and a street single, Salute, produced by AraabMuzik. The song features Jim Jones, Cam'ron and Juelz Santana
dipset. The diplomats, also known as dipset, are a Harlem new york based group who previously signed to Rockefeller records but now are signed to their own label diplomat records. The group was founded by rappers Cameron and Jim Jones. The diplomats first became popular following Cameron's reemergence in 2002. Dipset. The Diplomats, a Harlem NY based record label consisting of: Cam`ron, Jim Jones, Freekey Zekey, Juelz Santana, J.R. Writer, Hell Rell, 40 Cal, and Jha Jha.. Even though there shit might not ryhme/make sense more than half the time and dipset is said every other word.