If you didn't use a marinade, brine or spice rub, coat the chicken with a little olive oil, and season it to taste with kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper. Set up the grill for medium-high heat. If using a charcoal grill, a two-zone indirect flame works best. Let the grill heat, covered, for about 15 minutes. Sear the chicken until browned, about 10 minutes, turning occasionally. Move the chicken to the cooler side of the grill. The outer portions of the grill are typically cooler than the center. Close the grill. Grill the legs for 35 minutes, or until they measure 165 degrees Fahrenheit with an instant-read thermometer.
Set the chicken legs on the hottest side of the grill. If you use charcoal, place the legs over the coals. Sear the chicken until browned, about 10 minutes, turning occasionally. Move the chicken to the cooler side of the grill. The outer portions of the grill are typically cooler than the center. Close the grill. Grill the legs for 35 minutes, or until they measure 165 degrees Fahrenheit with an instant-read thermometer.
The rule of thumb is if you can cook anything on an outdoor grill, then you can just as easily cook the same thing on the Foreman grill in half the time, since you are cooking your food on BOTH sides simultaneously. The typical time for grilling chicken drumsticks is about 40 minutes (20 minutes on each side). Therefore you put it on the Foreman grill for only 20 minutes. No need to marinade, unless that's what you want to do. Best Answer: drumsticks are rather small...if the grill is closed it should take prolly about 20 minutes...closed it will cook both sides so no need to really turn em i dont think...season to your liking and toss em on your grill and enjoy.... Source(s): tormentt · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Place the drumsticks on an upper grill. If your grill has only one grill, wrap the drumsticks in heavy duty aluminum foil. Close the foil and the lid of the grill. Allow to cook for 25-30 minutes and prepare yourself for a delicious treat. For charcoal grills the process is similar.
Super easy, never fails, grilled drumsticks for the whole family. Pat dry, spice and cook over medium high heat. Then you will have crispy goodness for all. The “art” of the grilled chicken legs (drumsticks)… that is what I have been working on for several weeks. All the recipes I looked at said things like until “fluid runs clear” or 30 minutes over medium high heat. I need more precise.
1 Chill and marinade for 4 hours. 2  Grill chicken on a well oiled grill until well browned on all sides, turning once, 30 to 40 minutes (meat near thigh bones should no longer be pink when tested with the tip of a knife). Directions. 1  Mix all marinade ingredients in a zip lock bag add chicken. 2  Chill and marinade for 4 hours. 3  Grill chicken on a well oiled grill until well browned on all sides, turning once, 30 to 40 minutes (meat near thigh bones should no longer be pink when tested with the tip of a knife). 4  FYI.
1 Mix all marinade ingredients in a zip lock bag add chicken. 2  Chill and marinade for 4 hours. 3  Grill chicken on a well oiled grill until well browned on all sides, turning once, 30 to 40 minutes (meat near thigh bones should no longer be pink when tested with the tip of a knife). 4  FYI. Directions. 1 
For a gas grill, preheat grill. Reduce heat to medium. Adjust for indirect cooking. Test for medium heat above the drip pan. Place drumsticks on the grill rack over drip pan. Cover and grill for 50 to 60 minutes or until chicken is no longer pink (180 degrees F), turning once halfway through grilling. Step 3: Grill the chicken. Cover and grill for 25 minutes. Turn chicken over. Cover and grill for 25 to 30 minutes more or until juices run clear and an instant-read thermometer inserted in thickest part of thigh registers 180 degrees F. Remove chicken from grill and let rest for 10 minutes.
Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with! Note that chicken thighs and legs will hold up better to long, slow heat than will breasts which can more easily dry out. If you barbecue breasts, keep them on the coolest part of the grill. This recipe assumes fairly large chicken pieces (like the main pieces from a 4 to 5 pound whole chicken).
2 Lay the chicken pieces skin side down on the hottest side of the grill in order to sear the skin side well. Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill. Note that chicken thighs and legs will hold up better to long, slow heat than will breasts which can more easily dry out. If you barbecue breasts, keep them on the coolest part of the grill. This recipe assumes fairly large chicken pieces (like the main pieces from a 4 to 5 pound whole chicken).