The original, costly, traditional balsamic vinegar (Aceto Balsamico Tradizionale), is made from a reduction of cooked white Trebbiano grape juice, and used as a condiment. It has been produced in Modena and Reggio Emilia since the Middle Ages, being mentioned in a document dated 1046. Modena uses a different system to indicate the age of its balsamic vinegars (Aceto Balsamico Tradizionale di Modena). A white-coloured cap means the vinegar has aged for at least 12 years and a gold cap bearing the designation extravecchio (extra old) shows the vinegar has aged for 25 years or more.
Cooking with Balsamic Vinegar. Balsamic vinegar is delicious drizzled over salads, of course. But try it in cooked dishes, too. Balsamic vinegar holds onto its spicy kick, balancing the rich flavor of meat, poultry, and fish, and adding welcome acidity to vegetables. Some Italians even toss back balsamic vinegar as a tonic, sometimes mixed with a bit of water.
Balsamic vinegars range in age from young (three to five years) to middle-aged (six to 12 years) to the noble older versions, which can range from 12 to more than 100 years old. By law a vinegar labeled aceto balsamico tradizionale di Modena must have been wood-aged for a minimum of 12 years. The word stravecchio on the label tells you the balsamic's been aged at least 25 years. Older, high-quality balsamics are sometimes used as an aperitif or digestif after a meal. White balsamic vinegar also comes from Modena, Italy, but is made by an entirely different process than classic balsamic vinegar. The grape undergoes pressurized cooking, which prevents the caramelization of both flavor and color.
A remarkable glaze for steak, pork and poultry, balsamic vinegar is delicious when drizzled over risotto, greens or berries, Villa ... Manodori vinegar has a vibrant dark color and rich aroma that reflect a century of family tradition from Massimo Bottura, acclaimed chef of Osteria Francescana in Modena, Italy. 
Balsamic Vinegar of Modena (Aceto Balsamico di Modena), an inexpensive imitation, is today widely available and much better known. Modena uses a different system to indicate the age of its balsamic vinegars (Aceto Balsamico Tradizionale di Modena). A white-coloured cap means the vinegar has aged for at least 12 years and a gold cap bearing the designation extravecchio (extra old) shows the vinegar has aged for 25 years or more.
Balsamic vinegar has become all the rage in America, thanks to creative chefs at upscale restaurants. It is difficult to believe that this robust product of the vine has only come to be appreciated within the last two decades in America, when Italians have been enjoying it for centuries. 
Determine which type of balsamic vinegar is for you to use in your cooking and different recipes: True aceto balsamic vinegar comes in 3.4 ounce bottles and sells from $50.00 to $500.00 per bottle. It must be aged a minimum of 10 year. Balsamic vinegar is a reduction made from grapes, but it is not considered a wine vinegar because the grape juice used is unfermented. The unfermented white sweet grape juice that is used is called must and comes from the Trebbiano grapes. You will find lots of balsamic vinegars in your local stores.
Traditional Balsamic Vinegar (or Aceto Balsamico Tradizionale) is a costly type of balsamic vinegar produced in the Emilia Romagna region of Italy. Unlike inexpensive Balsamic Vinegar of Modena (BVM), Traditional Balsamic Vinegar (TBV) is produced from cooked grape must, aged at least 12 years, and is protected under the European Protected Designation of Origin (PDO) system.
The best Balsamic Vinegars have nothing else added to them-only the grapes. There is a lot of confusion about balsamic vinegar. On the grocery shelves you will find $3.00 bottles next to $25.00 bottles (often the $3.00 bottles have fancier labels). But, buyer beware! Not all balsamic vinegars are what they appear to be. Balsamic vinegar is a reduction made from grapes, but it is not considered a wine vinegar because the grape juice used is unfermented. The unfermented white sweet grape juice that is used is called must and comes from the Trebbiano grapes. You will find lots of balsamic vinegars in your local stores.