A: You may obtain a KYU number for your company by completing the Kentucky Trucking Application (TC 95-1) and the Vehicle Additions or Deletions Subject to KYU tax form (TC 95-38). Both of these forms can be found under section 2-A on the Forms and Applications page by printing out the Kentucky Trucking application. Since the KYU number is linked to the US DOT number, if the company has that particular truck VIN listed on the taxable inventory list and the KYU is active, then the truck should be fine as far as the KYU tax is concerned. There is however, one important exception in the case of a lease. See the question below.
You must file for Unified Carrier Registration (UCR). This is the registration of your federal authority with the states. Your UCR fee will be calculated at check out and submitted for you. Fee includes state and third-party processing fees. It is not the Department of Transportation or any state agency and is not endorsed by or affiliated with any United States Government or state agency. By using this website, you agree to hold Excelsior, DOTNumber.us and its owners free from any and all litigation that may arise from the use of this website.
Form BOC-3 will be issued to you and the government listing your individual agents for each state. Your BOC-3 will be filed with USDOT for you under your MC or FF Number. EXAMINATION, EXPERIENCE & FITNESS There is no examination or experience required for Interstate Motor Carrier Operating Authority. It is not the Department of Transportation or any state agency and is not endorsed by or affiliated with any United States Government or state agency. By using this website, you agree to hold Excelsior, DOTNumber.us and its owners free from any and all litigation that may arise from the use of this website.
The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration strongly encourages applicants to use the online system as it has built-in edit checks and is faster to complete, taking about 20 minutes to fill out. After you submit your application online, your USDOT number is reactivated. To reactivate an MC number, you complete the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's form MCS-150. Depending on your reason for deactivation, you do this online or using a paper form.
Check your eligibility to reinstate your Wisconsin driving privilege. To use the on-line system, you will need to enter the following information: 1  Whether you are currently a Wisconsin resident. 2  Personal identifying information: 3  Your Wisconsin driver license number or Wisconsin driver identification card number; or. 
1 obtain a court clearance receipt (with a final disposition code and date, violation code and date, and complaint number) or a Court Abstract form. 2  bring the receipt or Abstract to any MVD driver license office and pay a $10 reinstatement fee (no personal checks), in addition to an application fee. To reinstate your license, you must pay a $10 reinstatement fee in addition to an application fee (see below). If we do not have a digital photo on file, you must apply in person. Otherwise, you may pay these fees by mail or online.
You are accessing a U.S. Government information system. This information system, including all related equipment, networks, and network devices, is provided for U.S. Government-authorized use only. Unauthorized or improper use of this system is prohibited, and may result in civil and criminal penalties, or administrative disciplinary action. The communications and data stored or transiting this system may be, for any lawful Government purpose, monitored, recorded, and subject to audit or investigation
If your vehicle is subject to the KYU tax and the company with authority is not providing the KYU tax license, then you must obtain either a temporary permit for the KYU tax, or provide your own KYU tax license linked to your own US DOT number. Kentucky recommends that you display your personal KYU number. Since the KYU number is linked to the US DOT number, if the company has that particular truck VIN listed on the taxable inventory list and the KYU is active, then the truck should be fine as far as the KYU tax is concerned. There is however, one important exception in the case of a lease. See the question below.
You will need a PIN number to update your US DOT number. However, proof of insurance (insurance card) must still be sent to the Department of Motor Vehicles, Insurance Compliance Unit once every year. This may be faxed to 860-263-5550 or emailed to dmv.inscomp@ct.gov. Failure to comply may result in inactivation of your DOT Number. Pursuant to C.G.S. 14-163c, all Connecticut motor carriers must display their legal name or single trade name and their DOT number on each side of the power unit.
The motor carrier number used by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration is a U.S. Department of Transportation number. To reactivate an MC number, you complete the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration's form MCS-150. Depending on your reason for deactivation, you do this online or using a paper form.