Languages. A Finn’s mother tongue is either Finnish, Swedish (5.6% of the population are Swedish speakers) or Saami (some 8,000 native speakers). Finnish belongs to the small Finno-Ugrian language group; outside Finland it is understood (and to some extent spoken) in Estonia. 
Finnish (suomi (help·info) , or suomen kieli) is the language spoken by the majority of the population in Finland and by ethnic Finns outside Finland. It is one of the two official languages of Finland and an official minority language in Sweden. In Sweden, both standard Finnish and Meaenkieli, meänkieli A finnish, dialect are. Spoken The kven, language a dialect Of, finnish is spoken In Northern. norway In Sweden, both standard Finnish and Meaenkieli, meänkieli A finnish, dialect are. Spoken The kven, language a dialect Of, finnish is spoken In Northern. Norway finnish is the eponymous member of The finnic language family and is typologically between fusional and agglutinative. languages
The Finnish language, spoken mainly in Finland but also by people of Finnish origin in Sweden and other countries, belongs to the Fenno-Ugric group of languages, which is a part of the Uralian family of languages. For example, telephone is puhelin and university is yliopisto in Finnish. This approach was especially used in the 19th century when Finnish was consciously developed from the status of a language spoken by common people into a written, official (since 1863) and cultural language.
Location: Spoken in Sweden and in Finland (mainly coastal region). There is also a small minority of speakers in North Western Estonia. Number of Speakers: 10.5 million worldwide. 9.2 million inhabitants speak it as mother tongue (no official language registration). In Finland there are around 291,219 speakers, which is 5.4% of the population and they register themselves as Swedish-speaking (date from 31.12.2011).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Swedish is the official language of Sweden and is spoken by the vast majority of the nine million inhabitants of the country. It is a North Germanic language and quite similar to its sister Scandinavian languages, Danish and Norwegian. Finnish was the majority language of Sweden's eastern parts, though it was used almost exclusively as a spoken language. These areas were also home of a significant Swedish-speaking minority. Finnish became a minority language in the west as well since many Finnish speakers migrated there (mostly for economic reasons).
Finnish is spoken by about five million people, most of whom reside in Finland. There are also notable Finnish-speaking minorities in Sweden, Norway, Russia, Estonia, Brazil, Canada, and the United States. The majority of the population of Finland, 90.37% as of 2010, speak Finnish as their first language. In Sweden, both standard Finnish and Meaenkieli, meänkieli A finnish, dialect are. Spoken The kven, language a dialect Of, finnish is spoken In Northern. Norway finnish is the eponymous member of The finnic language family and is typologically between fusional and agglutinative. languages
Legal status: In Sweden it is the official language. With five more recognized minority languages spoken in the country (2010): Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami sámi Romani. And Jiddish, In finland Finnish and swedish are official national languages with an, equal footing making the. country bilingual 9.2 million inhabitants speak it as mother tongue (no official language registration). In Finland there are around 291,219 speakers, which is 5.4% of the population and they register themselves as Swedish-speaking (date from 31.12.2011).