To become a veterinarian, you need to earn a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree and obtain a professional license in your state. Keep reading to learn more. Schools offering Animal Care degrees can also be found in these popular choices. To become a veterinarian, you'll need to complete several years of education and training. You'll need to earn a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree and obtain a license. Many DVM graduates also choose to continue their training through internships and residency program
Requirements. Education. The first step in becoming a veterinary technician is to enroll in a certificate or associate’s degree program in the field. Some institutions require candidates to complete college-level coursework in microbiology, chemistry, biology and the humanities prior to admission. Training generally takes two years to complete
Veterinarians are trained to examine and treat small and large animals, including small household pets and large zoo animals. If you want to become a vet, you need to be committed to your career to meet academic and training requirements. It can take up to eight years to complete degrees required to get hired into veterinary jobs. The Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that before you start working as a veterinarian you are required to complete a Veterinary of Medicine doctorate degree. You complete your doctorate degree while attending an accredited veterinary medicine school.
Step 1: Complete a Bachelor's Degree Program. Most schools of veterinary medicine require or prefer applicants to have a bachelor's degree. While many students earn their degree in a biological science, most veterinary schools don't have a preferred major as long as certain science courses are taken. 
A veterinary technician usually finds work in private clinical veterinary practices and is required to have an associate's degree. Veterinary technologists, on the other hand, are required to have a bachelor's degree and usually work in laboratories and research facilities. Associate's Degree. Obtaining a two-year associate's degree in veterinary technology is the usual path to becoming a veterinary technician, and a partial path to becoming a veterinary technologist.
Many veterinary school graduates go on to complete 1-year, unpaid internships under supervision. As post-graduate students, veterinarians can also complete 3-4 year residencies if they wish to become board certified in a specialty area of veterinary medicine. Licensing is required in all states before veterinarians can practice. To obtain licensure, an individual must pass the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE). This computer-based test is offered during two separate periods each year at Prometric testing sites.
Contents. There are 30 veterinary schools accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) in the U.S. There were nearly 6,800 applicants competing for approximately 2,700 openings in 2013. In other words, it is very competitive to gain admission to a veterinary school. Admission requirements for veterinary schools have many things in common; however the specific requirements may vary among schools. It is therefore advisable to become familiar with the entrance requirements (PDF) early in your career as this may affect course selection especially after your first year of college
Required Education. To become a veterinarian, you'll need to complete several years of education and training. You'll need to earn a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree and obtain a license. Many DVM graduates also choose to continue their training through internships and residency programs
Educational Prerequisites. DVM program applicants must submit GRE scores, letters of recommendation, essays and academic transcripts. A bachelor's degree isn't necessarily required in order to enter a veterinary program, but applicants must have a designated number of undergraduate credit hours completed. However, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), most applicants hold a bachelor's degree (www.bls.gov). Licensing is required in all states before veterinarians can practice. To obtain licensure, an individual must pass the North American Veterinary Licensing Examination (NAVLE). This computer-based test is offered during two separate periods each year at Prometric testing sites.