Earth's orbit is intermediate between the orbits of Venus and Mars. Earth is an average distance of 149.6 million kilometres from the Sun, while Venus is (on average) 108 mill … ion kilometres from the Sun and Mars (on average) is 227 million kilometres from the Sun. The asteroid belt is located roughly between the orbits of the planets Mars and Jupiter, about 2.5 to 3 AU (375 to 450 million kilometers) from the sun. It includes the dwarf … planet Ceres, the protoplanets Vesta and Pallas, and several other large asteroids (minor planets)
Venus is the closest planet to Earth (it's also the most similar in size). But its proximity to our planet depends on the orbits of both. The two planets travel in ellipses around the sun, and so the distance between them is constantly shifting. At its farthest, Venus lies 162 million miles (261 million kilometers) away. Venus takes 224.7 Earth days to travel around the sun.
Earth's orbit is intermediate between the orbits of Venus and Mars. Earth is an average distance of 149.6 million kilometres from the Sun, while Venus is (on average) 108 mill … ion kilometres from the Sun and Mars (on average) is 227 million kilometres from the Sun. Venus is closer to the sun. The order of the planets is (from the Sun); Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, (asteroid belt), Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. The new Solar System … Model classifies Pluto as the second largest minor planet in the solar system with Eris as the largest. 9 people found this useful.
1 Venus is the planet which is closest to the Earth and is a little smaller than the Earth. 2  The diameter of the Earth (the distance right round the middle of the Earth at the equator) is 12,760 kilometres, or 7926 miles. 3  The diameter of Venus is 12,103 kilometres, or 7520 miles. 1 Venus is the hottest planet in the Solar System, even hotter than Mercury, which is closer to the Sun. 2  The temperature on the surface of Venus is about 860° Fahrenheit or 460° Celsius. 3  Compare this to a warm summer’s day in London, when the temperature might be 80° Fahrenheit or 26° Celsius.
The planet that can be closest to earth when we're both in the same part of our orbits is Venus. The minimum distance between us and Venus is about 25.5 million miles, or about 28% of the distance from earth to the sun. The next nearest possible is Mars, whose distance from Earth can be as small as 48.5 million miles. Venus is closer to the sun. The order of the planets is (from the Sun); Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, (asteroid belt), Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. The new Solar System … Model classifies Pluto as the second largest minor planet in the solar system with Eris as the largest. 9 people found this useful.
Where is It? Venus is the second planet from the Sun, located in between Mercury and Earth. The orbit, or path, Venus follows around the Sun is nearly circular, so the planet’s distance from the Sun averages about 105 million kilometers. 