Best Answer: I grill my pork chops on medium heat. If your's are really thick, you might want to start on medium and then turn it to low after the initial searing. I put my plain pork chops on, then grill about 5 minutes and turn over. Add bbq sauce to the top if desired. Then after another 4 or 5 minutes, flip back over to sauce the second side. Then just about another minute to let the sauce finish. Cook on a medium temperature, or keep the grill around 350 degrees (if you have a heat gauge on your grill). You don't want to cook them to fast as the outside will burn and the inside will not be cooked through and you don't want to eat raw pork.
3. Leave the grill’s lid closed for about 30 minutes or until the pork chops reaches 145 degrees at the center. You can determine the temperature of the meat by inserting a meat thermometer in it. 4. When cooked, take the stuffed pork chops out of the grill, and then allow it to cool down for 3 minutes before serving. 3. Place the stuffy pork chops on the baking sheet or baking dish. 4. Bake the pork chops. Put the meat inside the oven uncovered and then leave it for about 30-60 minutes. After 30 minutes, get a meat thermometer and insert it in the meat.
The pork chops are then rubbed with a flavorful mixture of black pepper, oregano, crushed red pepper, and thyme before they are baked at 375 degrees F for 35 minutes or until they reach an internal temperature of 145 degrees F. Allow chops to stand for 3 minutes at room temperature before serving. First the pork chops are dipped in a mixture of milk and egg, then they are coated with corn bread stuffing mix. The chops are baked at 425 degrees F for 20 minutes or until the chops reach an internal temperature of 145 degrees F. Allow chops to stand for 3 minutes at room temperature before serving. To stuff, cut a pocket in the side of each pork chop
When testing a pork chop with a meat thermometer insert the temperature through the side right to the middle of the meat. This is the coldest part. Once that temperature reaches 140 degrees F/60 degrees C remove the chops from the grill or broiler and place them on a warm plate. 20 to 30 minutes. The secret to a great pork chop is a hot fire and the right time. Preheat your grill or broiler to high before you start. If you are using a broiler, the meat should be 4 to 5 inches from the heat.
Allow pork chops to continue cooking until the center reaches 145 degrees F/65 degrees C. Resting: Once the chops are cooked the way you like them get them off the grill. Place on a plate and cover with aluminum foil for 5 to 10 minutes to let them rest. This recovery period lets the meat loosen up and the juices flow through the pork chop.
Report Abuse. Rule: The thinner the meat-the higher the heat Brine your pork chops in salt and brown sugar for 30 minutes. Dry well and coat with a bit of olive oil. Heat the grill rocket hot, then turn down to high when you put on the chops. Use a digital timer. Let the chops sit over high heat for 2 minutes. Then use tongs and rotate 45 degrees. If you have room on the grill, move them to a new spot. (This helps brand grill marks into the meat). 2 minutes later, flip (onto a formerly empty part of the grill). 2 minutes later rotate 45 degrees. 
That's easy. Heat a grill or grill pan over medium heat. Remove the pork chops from the bag and lightly sprinkle with salt and pepper. Place on the grill and cook until the pork chop releases from the grill, about 4 minutes. Flip and cook on the other side for another 3 minutes. If using a grill pan, be sure to do in batches so you don't steam the chops. And don't worry if you have neither; you can do this in a pan. See, easy!
Get the grill nice and hot, over 450 degrees and place the pork chops on the grill. Sear each side for 2-4 minutes. When both sides are showing grate marks lower the heat to 250 degrees and baste your favorite BBQ sauce liberally on the chops. The searing process locks the juices into the meat. 