(That’s right. Packaging is considered a food additive by the FDA and does, in many cases, add undesirable ingredients to the food inside.) You can avoid ingesting all of these ingredients by shopping at a market that sells real food, not a chemical supply house. Now think about what you DO want to find in tonight’s dinner. You have control over the nutritional value of the foods you prepare. Locally grown food is fresher by definition, which also means it’s more nutritious. Cooking methods also count.
Dumping all the leftover food from your plate and feeding it to your dog is not the healthiest way to feed table scraps. While this may have been a common practice in the past, dogs today eat a properly balanced diet and adding large amounts of table scraps will upset that balance and can lead to problems. Many people make their own dog food, and their dogs eat “people foods” without a problem. Moderation is the Key. A common concern with feeding table scraps is that it causes obesity. While this is certainly a concern, it does not need to be the case.
This one's a no-brainer, clearly. The food is loaded with preservatives, the preferred cooking method is deep fried and even the healthy options aren't all that good for you. In fact, the McDonald's crispy chicken salad has more than 18 grams of fat. Add the dressing and you're at 36 grams. 
But even here, not all species share food with their offspring to the same degree. Jaeggi and Van Schaik’s research shows that it is possible to predict which primate species will share food with its young (during and post weaning) by the degree of so-called “extractive foraging” it does. In the food for sex exchanges, male primates share with females to attract them, and influence their choice of male partner. In species that form coalitions, males and females swap food to strengthen their bonds. Among unrelated adults, the type of food seems less important.
I just went with it, because that's the rule, and it didn't seem like a big deal to me. The kids all know the rule, so outside of maybe their first two weeks at the school, they don't throw a giant fit when you tell them, You can have it when Sally Jo is done.. Here are a couple of examples of questionable sharing practices that I've seen recently. The first comes from a good friend of mine. (And I hope she doesn't mind that I use her story as an example.) She and her almost-2-year-old were at the park one day. He had brought a small car from home to play with.
The next best thing to eating food, is talking about it. And we've all done our fair share of that -- us food editors especially. But there are some people who love food so much, who think about food in just the right way, that they articulate what we've always felt but haven't been able to eloquently put into words. 
3. Most of us have heard that giving “people food” or table scraps to dogs is not a good thing. While sharing food directly from your plate probably isn’t the best idea, there are lots of table scraps that are safe and healthy to share with your canine companion. Many people make their own dog food, and their dogs eat “people foods” without a problem. Moderation is the Key. A common concern with feeding table scraps is that it causes obesity. While this is certainly a concern, it does not need to be the case.
Healthy foods are the same for us as they are for dogs. Fresh fruits and veggies are the best treats for your dog. Fresh fruit is high in water and a good source of fibre, so you don’t want to share large amounts as it can result in gastrointestinal upset. Many people make their own dog food, and their dogs eat “people foods” without a problem. Moderation is the Key. A common concern with feeding table scraps is that it causes obesity. While this is certainly a concern, it does not need to be the case.
And I can understand the desire to give your children everything they want; we all have it. But it's a good lesson for you both to learn that this isn't always possible, and you shouldn't step all over other people to get these things. Furthermore, this is not how things work in the real world. In your child's adult life, he's going to think he's owed everything he sees. Here are a couple of examples of questionable sharing practices that I've seen recently. The first comes from a good friend of mine. (And I hope she doesn't mind that I use her story as an example.) She and her almost-2-year-old were at the park one day. He had brought a small car from home to play with.