A nurse case manager may work at a hospital, at a nursing home, or in an industrial environment. The nurse case manager should work with patients and their providers to determine what sort of care is needed. For Nurse Case Managers, more experience in the field does not usually mean bigger paychecks. Survey participants with less than five years' experience pocket $61K on average, but those with five to 10 years of experience enjoy a much bigger median of $66K.
RN Case Manager Job Duties. RN case managers work with new admissions, assessing their conditions and needs in order to develop personalized care plans. They regularly evaluate these plans of care and update them on an as-needed basis. They must educate patients and their families on how to follow their care plans. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an RN case manager. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties, and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
Education. An RN case manager is first and foremost a registered nurse (RN). Most case managers have either many years of experience as a nurse or have earned a Master’s in Nursing degree, focusing on a particular nursing specialty. A growing number of these professionals choose to earn a Doctorate (PhD) in Nursing. After receiving an RN (and passing the NCLEX exam), the prospective RN case manager may also seek a Master’s Degree in Nursing (MSN), choosing a particular nursing specialty among the many possible specialties that include the following: 1  Urgent care. 2  Geriatrics. 3  Pediatric nursing. 4  Surgical nursing.
If employed at a hospital, the duties and responsibilities of an RN case manager generally include: 1  Medical evaluation of newly admitted patients. 2  Involvement in the preparation and implementation of a plan for both in-patient and out-patient care. 3  Required communications with a payer or insurance company. After receiving an RN (and passing the NCLEX exam), the prospective RN case manager may also seek a Master’s Degree in Nursing (MSN), choosing a particular nursing specialty among the many possible specialties that include the following: 1  Urgent care. 2  Geriatrics. 3  Pediatric nursing. 4  Surgical nursing.
RN case managers are registered nurses who are more involved in the social work aspect of healthcare rather than the clinical aspect. Their main function is to evaluate new patients and develop plans of care. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an RN case manager. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties, and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
RN Case Manager Job Description. RN case managers are registered nurses (RNs) who develop, implement, and evaluate individualized patient care plans. They act as social workers, advocate patient welfare, and serve as a liaison between patients, their families, and healthcare providers. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an RN case manager. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties, and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
Case managers specialize in almost every field of nursing. There are community opportunities for nurse case managers to work with disease management, long term care, home health, hospice, and more. Many case managers work eight hour Monday through Friday schedules. Others do nights and twelve hour shifts. Case management work provides opportunities in cosmopolitan and remote locales. Opportunities exist for nurses who enjoy field work. Some case managers are able to telecommute part of the time. Case management nurses must be registered nurses. Most have a Bachelor’s or advanced nursing degree however many case managers posses a Diploma or Associate’s degree in nursing. Case management certification is available and desirable, especially by insurance companies and hospitals.
The annual salary range for Registered Nurses working the field of case management is from fifty three to seventy seven thousand dollars. As budget cuts and managed care become more prominent, the roles of case managers will expand. Job opportunities will continue to increase. Case management nurses must be registered nurses. Most have a Bachelor’s or advanced nursing degree however many case managers posses a Diploma or Associate’s degree in nursing. Case management certification is available and desirable, especially by insurance companies and hospitals.
An RN case manager must first be a registered nurse. They should have an associate's degree or a bachelor's degree from an accredited nursing program, though many employers prefer job candidates who have bachelor's degrees. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an RN case manager. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degree programs, job duties, and licensure to find out if this is the career for you.