Amsterdam’s Cruise Terminal. The Passenger Terminal Amsterdam is a modern facility within walking distance of the city center and with a hotel, Moevenpick Hotel Amsterdam City Centre, situated in the terminal. The terminal features a promenade, built on the roof of the concourse and with good views of the water and beyond. 
The approximate trip time from Amsterdam Cruise port to Amsterdam Schiphol is about 15 minutes. Private tour of Amsterdam or any other destination in the area with a pick-up and drop off at Amsterdam port can be pre-booked with City Airport Taxis. Airport taxi transfers from Amsterdam Cruise Port as well as a wide range of services that require a car and driver from and to Amsterdam and Amsterdam Cruise Port are available from
Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands. With more than one million inhabitants in its urban area, it is the country's largest city and its financial, cultural, and creative centre. Amsterdam derives its name from the city’s origin as “Dam” of river “Amstel”. 
Transfer from Amsterdam Port to Amsterdam City Centre at a fixed, all inclusive price. The default payment is in cash to the driver. Private bus transfers from Amsterdam Port to Amsterdam City Centre as well as bus hire for events, weddings and other functions can be arranged on request. The transfer time from Amsterdam Port to Amsterdam City Centre is about 20 minutes. Please note that this is an estimated transfer time and does not take into account traffic and road conditions.
Today, the Port of Amsterdam is the second largest port in the Netherlands, the largest being the Port of Rotterdam. In 2014, the Port of Amsterdam had a cargo throughput of 97.4 million tons, most of which was bulk cargo. The port was first mentioned in the year 1342, when the city of Amsterdam received city rights. In the Dutch Golden Age the port was one of the main harbours of the Dutch East India Company. The North Holland Canal, that connects Amsterdam to Den Helder was dug between 1819 and 1824.
Its status as the Dutch capital is mandated by the Constitution of the Netherlands though it is not the seat of the Dutch government, which is The Hague. Amsterdam has a population of 825,080 within the city proper, 1,317,663 in the urban area and 1,590,520 in the metropolitan area. Famous Amsterdam residents included Anne Frank the diarist, the artist Vincent van Gogh and the philosopher Baruch Spinoza. The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, the oldest stock exchange in the world, is located in the city center.
The Port of Amsterdam (Dutch: Haven van Amsterdam) is a seaport in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. It is the 4th port in Europe by metric tonnes of cargo. The port is located on the bank of a former bay named the IJ and the North Sea Canal, with which it is connected to the North Sea. The port was first mentioned in the year 1342, when the city of Amsterdam received city rights. In the Dutch Golden Age the port was one of the main harbours of the Dutch East India Company. The North Holland Canal, that connects Amsterdam to Den Helder was dug between 1819 and 1824.
Westhaven. The Port of Amsterdam is located on the banks of the North Sea Canal and the IJ. The port is connected to the North Sea through the North Sea Canal, to Den Helder through the North Holland Canal, to the Markermeer through the IJ and the IJmeer, and to the Rhine through the Amsterdam-Rhine Canal. The port was first mentioned in the year 1342, when the city of Amsterdam received city rights. In the Dutch Golden Age the port was one of the main harbours of the Dutch East India Company. The North Holland Canal, that connects Amsterdam to Den Helder was dug between 1819 and 1824.
The fastest, most comfortable way to get from Amsterdam Port to Amsterdam City Centre is by booking a private transfer with Airport-Transfers-Direct.com. The transfer time from Amsterdam Port to Amsterdam City Centre is about 20 minutes. Please note that this is an estimated transfer time and does not take into account traffic and road conditions.