Ear candling, a traditional therapy used by the Ancient Greeks, was popularised by the Hopi Indian tribe of the American south-west. The narrow, hollow rolled column of cotton flax is impregnated with beeswax. Now know as Hopi candles, they also contain honey, sage, St Johns Wort, and camomile. There's a lot of build-up, particularly in your left ear, she said. You may need to come again.. What she meant was, You have a disgusting amount of wax and one treatment won't shift it.. I am now addicted to what is known as thermal auricular therapy, or ear candling.
Hi-When I trained in ear candling a few years ago I was told not to bother opening up the candle as now the biosun hopi candles have filters in there is no point and they do not provide a good gauge. However I so often hear of people opening up the candles and being wowed by what is inside. 
Hopi Ear Candling(Thermo-Auricular Therapy). This now popular therapy was probably used in ancient times for cleansing, purifying and healing on a spiritual level, but today it is known for its more physical benefits in treating ear and sinus problems. The practice is safe, non-invasive and pleasant. This is to help assess whether Hopi candling will be a safe treatment for you to have and to find out what your expectations of the treatment are. You will be placed in a comfortable position laying down on your side. The Hopi candle will be gently placed just inside the ear canal and lit. The candle will be held firmly in place to prevent any of the ash from falling in or around the ear. You will experience a fire crackling sound as the candle burns and possibly some popping of the ear
Ear candling also should be avoided. Ear candling is a practice in which a hollow candle is inserted into the external auditory canal and lit, with the patient lying on the opposite ear. In theory, the combination of heat and suction is supposed to remove earwax. Medical research has shown that the practice is both dangerous and ineffective and does not help remove earwax or toxicants. The claim by one manufacturer that ear candles originated with the Hopi tribe is also false.
Ear candling, also called ear coning or thermal-auricular therapy, is an alternative medicine practice claimed to improve general health and well-being by lighting one end of a hollow candle and placing the other end in the ear canal. Medical research has shown that the practice is both dangerous and ineffective and does not help remove earwax or toxicants. The claim by one manufacturer that ear candles originated with the Hopi tribe is also false.
Vanessa Charles, public relations officer for the Hopi Tribal Council, has stated that ear candling is not and has never been a practice conducted by the Hopi tribe or the Hopi people.. The Hopi tribe has repeatedly asked Biosun, the manufacturer of 'Hopi Ear Candles', to stop using the Hopi name. Medical research has shown that the practice is both dangerous and ineffective and does not help remove earwax or toxicants. The claim by one manufacturer that ear candles originated with the Hopi tribe is also false.
Ear Candling. Thermal Auricular Therapy (also known as Hopi Ear Candles) is a pleasant and non-invasive treatment of the ears, used to treat a variety of conditions.
Thermal Auricular Therapy (also known as Hopi Ear Candles) is a pleasant and non-invasive treatment of the ears, used to treat a variety of conditions. I use Hopi Candles frequently at my practice in Wolverhampton and Staffordshire, but there are many reputable therapists throughout the country. 
Ear-candling is used for the removal of ear wax and for the treatment of hay fever, headaches, sinusitis, rhinitis, colds, influenza and tinnitus. It is even claimed candling can lead to ‘sharpening of mental functioning, vision, hearing, smell, taste and colour sensation’. There is no evidence that candling is effective in the treatment of any of the other conditions mentioned above. Ear candles are not free of risks: burns, occlusion of the ear canal and perforations of the eardrum are on record. There are also cases of house fires resulting from candling sessions.