RISC processors are also used in supercomputers such as the K computer, the fastest on the TOP500 list in 2011, second at the 2012 list, and fourth at the 2013 list, and Sequoia, the fastest in 2012 and third in the 2013 list. Contents. Various suggestions have been made regarding a precise definition of RISC, but the general concept is that of a system that uses a small, highly optimized set of instructions, rather than a more versatile set of instructions often found in other types of architectures.
The architectural designs of CPU are RISC (Reduced instruction set computing) and CISC (Complex instruction set computing). CISC has the ability to execute addressing modes or multi-step operations within one instruction set. It is the design of the CPU where one instruction performs many low-level operations. 1 Reduced instructions need a less number of transistors in RISC. 2  RISC uses Harvard memory model means it is Harvard Architecture. 3  A compiler is used to perform the conversion operation means to convert a high-level language statement into the code of its form.
PA-RISC is an instruction set architecture (ISA) developed by Hewlett-Packard. As the name implies, it is a reduced instruction set computer (RISC) architecture, where the PA stands for Precision Architecture. The design is also referred to as HP/PA for Hewlett Packard Precision Architecture. The HP 9000 machines were soon upgraded with the PA-RISC processor as well, running the HP-UX version of UNIX. Other operating systems ported to the PA-RISC architecture include Linux, OpenBSD, NetBSD and NEXTSTEP. An interesting aspect of the PA-RISC line is that most of its generations have no Level 2 cache.
The term CISC (complex instruction set computer or computing) refers to computers designed with a full set of computer instructions that were intended to provide needed capabilities in the most efficient way. 
RISC Architecture. RISC (Reduced Instruction Set Computer) is used in portable devices due to its power efficiency. For Example, Apple iPod and Nintendo DS. RISC is a type of microprocessor architecture that uses highly-optimized set of instructions. 1 Reduced instructions need a less number of transistors in RISC. 2  RISC uses Harvard memory model means it is Harvard Architecture. 3  A compiler is used to perform the conversion operation means to convert a high-level language statement into the code of its form.
RISC (reduced instruction set computer) is a microprocessor that is designed to perform a smaller number of types of computer instruction s so that it can operate at a higher speed (perform more millions of instructions per second, or MIPS). 
What is the difference between CISC and RISC processor architectures? CISC, or Complex Instruction Set Computing, provides a rich instruction set that has instructions for many different types of operations, e.g. logic, math, floating point math … , and so forth. RISC, or Reduces Instruction Set Computing, has a much sparser set of instructions that allow you to do very much less with each instruction. Because the individual instructions are simpler, a RISC chip can execute many more instructions than a CISC chip in a certain amount of time.
Most modern CISC processors, such as the Pentium, uses a fast RISC core with an interpreter sitting between the core and the instruction. So when you are running Windows95 on a PC, it is not that much different to trying to get W95 running on the software PC emulator. RISC vs ARM. The argument that RISC processors provide more registers than CISC processors isn't right. Just take a look at the (good old) 68000, it has about the same number of registers as the ARM has. And that 80x86 compatible processors don't provide more registers is just a matter of compatibility (I guess).
RISC and CISC are computing systems developed for computers. Difference between RISC and CISC is critical to understanding how a computer follows your instructions. These are commonly misunderstood terms and this article intends to clarify their meanings and concepts behind the two acronyms. RISC. Pronounced same as RISK, it is an acronym for Reduced Instruction Set Computer. 
CISC (Complex Instruction Set Computer) : It was developed by Intel. CISC is a type of design for the computers. CISC based computer will have shorter programs which are made up of symbolic machine language. A Complex Instruction Set Computer (CISC) supplies a large number of complex instructions at the assembly language level. During the early years, memory was slow and expensive and the programming was done in assembly language.