The earliest form of English is called Old English or Anglo-Saxon (c. 550–1066 CE). Old English developed from a set of North Sea Germanic dialects originally spoken along the coasts of Frisia, Lower Saxony, Jutland, and Southern Sweden by Germanic tribes known as the Angles, Saxons, and Jutes. Countries with large communities of native speakers of English (the inner circle) include Britain, the United States, Australia, Canada, Ireland, and New Zealand, where the majority speaks English, and South Africa, where a significant minority speaks English.
When we talk about ‘’English’, we often think of it as a single language. Claire Bowern shows that the language from the present day back has ancient roots and has evolved through generations of speakers. 1  Share on FacebookShare. 2  Share on TwitterTweet. 3  Share on WhatsappShare. While English doesn’t have the most speakers, it is the official language of more countries than any other language. Furthermore, when we talk about ‘’English’, we often think of it as a single languag
WE DON'T ASK OURSELVES where languages come from because they just seem to be there: French in France, English in England, Chinese in China, Japanese in Japan, and so forth. 
English is an Indo-European language, and belongs to the West Germanic group of the Germanic languages. Most closely related to English are the Frisian languages, and English and Frisian form the Anglo-Frisian subgroup within West Germanic. Countries with large communities of native speakers of English (the inner circle) include Britain, the United States, Australia, Canada, Ireland, and New Zealand, where the majority speaks English, and South Africa, where a significant minority speaks English.
English is a West Germanic language that originated from the Anglo-Frisian dialects and was brought to Britain by Germanic invaders (or settlers) from what is now called north west Germany and the Netherlands. It uses a vocabulary unlike other European languages of the same era. Middle English differed from Old English because of two invasions, which occurred during the Middle Ages. The first invasion was by people who spoke North Germanic languages. They conquered and colonised parts of Britain during the 8th and 9th centuries AD.
Next in a series of articles on the English language and British and American culture. 500 AD: Origins English has its roots in the Germanic languages, from which German and Dutch also developed, as well as having many influences from romance languages such as French. (Romance languages are so called because they are derived from Latin which was the language spoken in ancient Rome.).
Early Modern English began in the late 15th century with the introduction of the printing press to London and the King James Bible as well as the Great Vowel Shift. Through the worldwide influence of the British Empire, modern English spread around the world from the 17th to mid-20th centuries. Countries with large communities of native speakers of English (the inner circle) include Britain, the United States, Australia, Canada, Ireland, and New Zealand, where the majority speaks English, and South Africa, where a significant minority speaks English.
Modern English From the late 15th century, the language changed into Modern English, often dated from the Great Vowel Shift. English is continuously assimilating foreign words, especially Latin and Greek, causing English to have the largest vocabulary of any language in the world. The history of the language can be traced back to the arrival of three Germanic tribes to the British Isles during the 5th Century AD. Angles, Saxons and Jutes crossed the North Sea from what is the present day Denmark and northern Germany.
New MemberJoined: 06 May 2005Posts: 9Location: Saudi arabia. #2 (permalink) Fri May 06, 2005 9:54 am History of the English language. Most English words have come from four other languages: Anglo-Saxon, French, Latin and Ancient Greek. The language spoken in Britain in the first century B.C. would have been a Celtic language, similar to the Gaelic languages that are still spoken today in Ireland, Wales, Scotland and Brittany in northwest France. English come from the Saxons/Norms, who invaded Britain the 10th/11th/12th Century. The Saxon language come from Indo / Asia from the sanskrits.So English comes from Sanskrits, some European scholars will fail to mention this!