Lesson Summary. Transitional epithelium is a layer of cells that form the mucosal lining of your ureters, a portion of your urethra, and your urinary bladder. The cells are stratified, which means they create several layers. These cells provide protection and allow the vessels to expand to accommodate fluid. Expansion. Another reason why transitional epithelium is stratified is so that the tissue can stretch. When your bladder is empty the tissue is relaxed, resulting in the interior surface forming many finger-like folds of the muscle and mucosal layer.
The appearance of transitional epithelium depends on the layers in which it resides. Cells of the basal layer are cuboidal, or cube-shaped, and columnar, or column-shaped, while the cells of the superficial layer vary in appearance depending on the degree of distension. Transitional epithelium is made up of three types of cell layers: basal, intermediate, and superficial. The basal layer fosters the epithelial stem cells in order to provide constant renewal of the epithelium.
Transitional epithelium contains cells that are flattened and cells that are cuboidal; hence the name transitional. You can find transitional epithelium in the bladder (shown below) and in the first expansion of the ureters as they leave the kidneys (called a calyx) (shown in the above photograph). 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Transitional epithelium is a specialized form of stratified skin tissue. It is often called urothelial epithelium because the lining of the urinary tract is the most common place to find it. Transitional epithelium is very different from other types of epithelium because its cells are able to change shape to increase the amount of stretching the tissue can withstand. This ability to change shape is the reason it is referred to as transitional as the cells transition from one shape to another.
transitional epithelium a type characteristically found lining hollow organs, such as the urinary bladder, that are subject to great mechanical change due to contraction and distention; originally thought to represent a transition between stratified squamous and columnar epithelium. transitional epithelium, a form of stratified epithelium found characteristically in the mucous membrane of ureter and bladder; in the contracted condition it consists of many cell layers, whereas in the stretched condition fewer layers can be distinguished. (tran-zish'ŭn-ăl ep'i-thē'lē-ŭm).
Transitional epithelium is a stratified epithelium in which the shape of the surface cells changes (undergoes transitions) depending on the degree of stretch. When a transitional epithelium is not stretched (for example in an empty bladder) the cells of the surface layers are large and rounded. Arrows labeled c indicate several large rounded cells which have been outlined on the photo. When a transitional epithelium is stretched (as it would be in a full bladder) the cells of the surface layers are pulled into a flatter shape. Unlabeled arrows indicate base of the epithelium. ct = connective tissue. lu = lumen.
Epithelium can be either simple, having one layer, or stratified, i.e., multiple layers. Transitional epithelium has multiple layers but is a little more complicated in that the innermost layer appears to be several layers when the tissue is not stretched. Transitional epithelium is very different from other types of epithelium because its cells are able to change shape to increase the amount of stretching the tissue can withstand. This ability to change shape is the reason it is referred to as transitional as the cells transition from one shape to another.
Transitional epithelium is a type of tissue consisting of multiple layers of epithelial cells which can contract and expand. Transitional epithelium is made up of three types of cell layers: basal, intermediate, and superficial. The basal layer fosters the epithelial stem cells in order to provide constant renewal of the epithelium.