Diuretics constitute a large family of medications that increase urine flow and induce urinary sodium loss and are widely used for therapy of hypertension, congestive heart failure, and edematous states.
Diuretics may be used to treat a number of heart-r elated conditions, including high blood pressure, heart failure, kidney and liver problems, and glaucoma. Thiazide diuretics, such as Esidrix or Zaroxolyn, can be used to lower blood pressure, or to treat edema in heart failure.
Quinazoline diuretics are similar to the thiazide diuretics, but are used only in certain people such as those with kidney problems and when other diuretics have not worked. Loop diuretics are prescribed for people who also have heart failure, kidney problems, or swelling in their legs (edema).
1 Electrolyte abnormalities -- Blood test monitoring of blood chemistries or electrolytes, such as potassium, sodium, or kidney function, is important before and during drug use. 2  Extreme tiredness or weakness. 3  These effects should decrease as your body adjusts to the medication. 4  Call your doctor if these symptoms persist.
Diuretics cause the kidneys to remove more sodium and water from the body, which helps to relax the blood vessel walls, thereby lowering blood pressure. Diuretics often are combined with other high blood pressure medicines. Some of the brand names listed here are a combination of a diuretic and another medicine.
The thiazides are the most commonly used oral diuretics and are widely used in the therapy of hypertension and congestive heart failure, as well as the treatment of edema due to local, renal and hepatic causes.
A. For high blood pressure, diuretics, commonly known as water pills, help your body get rid of unneeded water and salt through the urine. Getting rid of excess salt and fluid helps lower blood pressure and can make it easier for your heart to pump.
The thiazide and thiazide-like diuretics are used to treat high blood pressure as well as fluid retention. They work in a different part of the kidney and are inherently weaker than the loop diuretics. The potassium sparing diuretics: Triamterine, amiloride, spironolactone.