The crust and the upper layer of the mantle together make up a zone of rigid, brittle rock called the Lithosphere. The layer below the rigid lithosphere is a zone of asphalt-like consistancy called the Asthenosphere. The asthenosphere is the part of the mantle that flows and moves the plates of the Earth. The Mantle. 
1 Crust-thin outer layer; makes up less than 1% of earth's mass. 2  Mantle-middle layer; composes approximately 64% of earth's mass. 3  Core-dense inner layer. 4  Lithosphere-composed of crust and upper mantle; divided into tectonic plates. 
It consists of two parts, an upper layer that is less dense and relatively brittle and a lower (much thicker) layer that is more dense and plastic (it deforms without breaking). The crust and upper mantle combined form the brittle upper layers of the Earth's interior called the lithosphere. The upper mantle is also called the asthenosphere. The mantle makes up the largest volume of the Earth's interior. The geosphere is considered that portion of the Earth system that includes the Earth's interior, rocks and minerals, landforms and the processes that shape the Earth's surface. The Earth itself (contrary to Christopher Columbus) is not a perfect sphere.
: the solid part of a celestial body (as the earth); specifically: the outer part of the solid earth composed of rock essentially like that exposed at the surface, consisting of the crust and outermost layer of the mantle, and usually considered to be about 60 miles (100 kilometers) in thickness. 
Earth's lithosphere [edit]. Earth's lithosphere includes the crust and the uppermost mantle, which constitute the hard and rigid outer layer of the Earth. The lithosphere is subdivided into tectonic plates. The concept of the lithosphere as Earth’s strong outer layer was described by A.E.H. Love in his 1911 monograph Some problems of Geodynamics and further developed by Joseph Barrell, who wrote a series of papers about the concept and introduced the term lithosphere.
The lithosphere is a layer that includes the crust and the upper most portion of the mantle (Figure 10h-2). This layer is about 100 kilometers thick and has the ability to glide over the rest of the upper mantle. The core is a layer rich in iron and nickel that is composed of two layers: the inner and outer cores. The inner core is theorized to be solid with a density of about 13 grams per cubic centimeter and a radius of about 1220 kilometers.
1 The lithosphere is the outermost mechanical layer and is the most rigid layer of the Earth. 2  The lithosphere consists of the crust, and some of the uppermost mantle. 3  The lithosphere averages about 100 km thick. 4  It is somewhat thicker beneath continents, and dramatically thinner under mid-ocean ridges. Mechanical layers differ in their strength or rigidity. These layers do not correspond on a one-to-one basis with the compositional layers. The Earth has five mechanic layers: 1 