Type, where IP address is the IP address of your external DNS server. Type set q=MX, and then press ENTER. Type, where domain name is the name of an external mail domain, and then press ENTER. The mail exchanger (MX) resource record for the domain that you entered should be displayed.
Many useful applications operate directly from CMD and one of them is Nslookup. It is a network administration command-line tool used widely by system and network administrators. It is used for querying the Domain Name System (DNS) to obtain domain name or IP address mapping or for a specific DNS record.
The nslookup command is used to query internet name servers interactively for information. nslookup, which stands for name server lookup, is a useful tool for finding out information about a named domain.
nslookup is the name of a program that lets an Internet server administrator or any computer user enter a host name (for example, whatis.com) and find out the corresponding IP address.
nslookup is a program used to query Internet domain name servers for information. nslookup has two modes: interactive and non-interactive. Interactive mode allows the user to query name servers for information about various hosts and domains or to print a list of hosts in a domain.
well, according to wikipedia it is. “nslookup is a computer program used in Windows and Unix to query Domain Name System (DNS) servers to find DNS details, including IP addresses of a particular computer, MX records for a domain and the NS servers of a domain. The name nslookup means “name server lookup”.
nslookup is a network administration command-line tool available for many computer operating systems for querying the Domain Name System (DNS) to obtain domain name or IP address mapping or for any other specific DNS record.
“nslookup is a computer program used in Windows and Unix to query Domain Name System (DNS) servers to find DNS details, including IP addresses of a particular computer, MX records for a domain and the NS servers of a domain. The name nslookup means “name server lookup”.
Nslookup has two modes: interactive and noninteractive. If you need to look up only a single piece of data, use noninteractive mode. For the first parameter, type the name or IP address of the computer that you want to look up. For the second parameter, type the name or IP address of a DNS name server.