There are two types of chromatic aberration: axial (longitudinal), and transverse (lateral). Axial aberration occurs when different wavelengths of light are focused at different distances from the lens, i.e., different points on the optical axis (focus shift). 
chromatic. adj. 1. (Colours) of, relating to, or characterized by a colour or colours. 2. (Classical Music) music. a. involving the sharpening or flattening of notes or the use of such notes in chords and harmonic progressions. b. of or relating to the chromatic scale or an instrument capable of producing it: a chromatic harmonica. c. of or relating to chromaticism.
Full Definition of CHROMATIC. 1. a: of or relating to color or color phenomena or sensations b: highly colored. 2. : of or relating to chroma. 3. a: of, relating to, or giving all the tones of the chromatic scale b: characterized by frequent use of accidentals. — chro·mat·i·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. 
The most common conception of the chromatic scale before the 13th century was the Pythagorean chromatic scale. Due to a different tuning technique, the twelve semitones in this scale have two slightly different sizes. Thus, the scale is not perfectly symmetric. On a modern piano or other equal-tempered instrument, all the semitones are the same size (100 cents). In other words, the notes of an equal-tempered chromatic scale are equally spaced. An equal-tempered chromatic scale is a nondiatonic scale having no tonic because of the symmetry of its equally spaced notes.
Chromatic scale drawn as a circle: each note is equidistant from its neighbors, separated by a semitone of the same size. The chromatic scale is a musical scale with twelve pitches, each a semitone above or below another. On a modern piano or other equal-tempered instrument, all the semitones are the same size (100 cents). In other words, the notes of an equal-tempered chromatic scale are equally spaced. An equal-tempered chromatic scale is a nondiatonic scale having no tonic because of the symmetry of its equally spaced notes.
Here is an example of longitudinal chromatic aberration that is visible at different distances: NIKON D3S + 35mm f/1.4 @ 35mm, ISO 200, 1/320, f/1.4. Note the green color on the top of the image, transforming to neutral in the middle, then becoming purple on the bottom part of the image that is closer to the camera. Chromatic aberration is caused by lens dispersion, with different colors of light travelling at different speeds while passing through a lens. As a result, the image can look blurred or noticeable colored edges (red, green, blue, yellow, purple, magenta) can appear around objects, especially in high-contrast situations.
Chromatic Aberration, also known as “color fringing” or “purple fringing”, is a common optical problem that occurs when a lens is either unable to bring all wavelengths of color to the same focal plane, and/or when wavelengths of color are focused at different positions in the focal plane. Chromatic aberration is caused by lens dispersion, with different colors of light travelling at different speeds while passing through a lens. As a result, the image can look blurred or noticeable colored edges (red, green, blue, yellow, purple, magenta) can appear around objects, especially in high-contrast situations.
chromatic. Use chromatic in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of chromatic is having colors, or a musical scale that includes half tones and full tones. An example of something chromatic is a rainbow. chromatic. 1  of color or having color or colors. 2  designating or of colors other than black, white, and gray. 3  highly colored. 4  Biol. 5  Music. 6  using or progressing by semitones: a chromatic scale. 7  producing all the tones of such a scale: a chromatic instrument. 8  using tones not in the key of a work: chromatic harmony.
The Chromatic application claims to provide users with a safer Internet browsing environment. The developers distribute this application using a deceptive software marketing method called 'bundling', which allows them to install Chromium without users' consent. 
An achromat doublet does not completely eliminate chromatic aberration, but can eliminate it for two colors, say red and blue. The idea is to use a lens pair with the strongest lens of low dispersion coupled with a weaker one of high dispersion calculated to match the focal lengths for two chosen wavelengths. Chromatic Aberration. A lens will not focus different colors in exactly the same place because the focal length depends on refraction and the index of refraction for blue light (short wavelengths) is larger than that of red light (long wavelengths).