Glutamate. Glutamate is the most abundant excitatory neurotransmitter in the brain and spinal cord. It is released, for example, by afferent neurons. In many cases, the receptor is a ligand gated ion channel that produces fast postsynaptic potentials. Acetylcholine. Acetylcholine is the neurotransmitter released by two types of neurons you hear about frequently in physiology: parasympathetic postganglionic neurons and somatic efferent neurons. In the parasympathetic case, the receptor is a seven transmembrane domain receptor coupled to a trimeric G protein.
1 Each axon terminal is swollen forming a synaptic knob. 2  The synaptic knob is filled with membrane-enclosed vesicles containing a neurotransmitter. 3  Arrival of an action potential at the synaptic knob opens Ca 2+ channels in the plasma membrane. 1 The synaptic knob is filled with membrane-enclosed vesicles containing a neurotransmitter. 2  Arrival of an action potential at the synaptic knob opens Ca 2+ channels in the plasma membrane. 3  The influx of Ca 2+ triggers the exocytosis of some of the vesicles.
Answers. Best Answer: Mechanism for transmitting pain is by the chemicals found in every nerve cell, called neurotransmitters. These either send or block pain messages. Serotonin is one such neurotransmitter. It blocks pain and induces a feeling of well-being. Endorphin is another neurotransmitter, a natural pain killer similar to morphine. The level of these chemicals varies between people and their production can be voluntarily increased, for example by vigorous exercise.
Glutamate. Glutamate is an excitatory relative of GABA. It is the most common neurotransmitter in the central nervous system-as much as half of all neurons in the brain-and is especially important in regards to memory. Curiously, glutamate is actually toxic to neurons, and an excess will kill them. GABA acts like a brake to the excitatory neurotransmitters that lead to anxiety. People with too little GABA tend to suffer from anxiety disorders, and drugs like Valium work by enhancing the effects of GABA.
It is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, meaning that when it finds its way to its receptor sites, it blocks the tendency of that neuron to fire. Dopamine is strongly associated with reward mechanisms in the brain. Drugs like cocaine, opium, heroin, and alcohol increase the levels of dopamine, as does nicotine. GABA acts like a brake to the excitatory neurotransmitters that lead to anxiety. People with too little GABA tend to suffer from anxiety disorders, and drugs like Valium work by enhancing the effects of GABA.
A complete discussion of neurotransmitters and pain pathways are beyond the scope of this page; suffice it to say that the physical mechanisms underlying the experience of pain (let alone the psychological and emotional factors involved) are complex and new information is constantly being discovered. 
Substance P (SP) is an undecapeptide (a peptide composed of a chain of 11 amino acid residues) member of the tachykinin neuropeptide family. It is a neuropeptide, acting as a neurotransmitter and as a neuromodulator. Capsaicin has been shown to reduce the levels of substance P, it is presumed, by reducing the number of C-fibre nerves or causing these nerves to be more tolerant. Thus, capsaicin is used clinically as an analgesic and an anti-inflammatory agent to reduce pain associated with arthritis and many types of neuralgia.
Most, if not all, ailments of the body cause pain. Pain is interpreted and perceived in the brain. Pain is modulated by two primary types of drugs that work on the brain: analgesics and anesthetics. The term analgesic refers to a drug that relieves pain without loss of consciousness. The modulation of pain by electrical brain stimulation results from the activation of descending inhibitory fibers, which modulate (block) the input and output of laminae I, II, V and VII neurons. The route from the PAG to the spinal cord is not direct.
Substance P coexists with the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate in primary afferents that respond to painful stimulation. Substance P has been associated with the regulation of mood disorders, anxiety, stress, reinforcement, neurogenesis, respiratory rhythm, neurotoxicity, nausea and emesis, pain, and nociception. Capsaicin has been shown to reduce the levels of substance P, it is presumed, by reducing the number of C-fibre nerves or causing these nerves to be more tolerant. Thus, capsaicin is used clinically as an analgesic and an anti-inflammatory agent to reduce pain associated with arthritis and many types of neuralgia.
with an amidation at the C-terminus. Substance P is released from the terminals of specific sensory nerves. It is found in the brain and spinal cord and is associated with inflammatory processes and pain. In 2014, the role of substance P to male aggression in fruit flies was identified. Capsaicin has been shown to reduce the levels of substance P, it is presumed, by reducing the number of C-fibre nerves or causing these nerves to be more tolerant. Thus, capsaicin is used clinically as an analgesic and an anti-inflammatory agent to reduce pain associated with arthritis and many types of neuralgia.