Click here to open a custom Google search that queries only the top websites containing file and process information. If you're wanting to individually scan this file for a virus, use VirusTotal and upload fsutil.exe to have it scanned with dozens of different anti-virus scanners at once.
fsutil.exe is part of VYUPPUE and developed by ©Wyebugur according to the fsutil.exe version information. fsutil.exe's description is  ebtyuxyjf jifo vifo ymohbiipu unow . fsutil.exe is usually located in the 'c:\users\%USERNAME%\appdata\roaming\microsoft\windows\ieupdate\' folder. Some of the anti-virus scanners at VirusTotal detected fsutil.exe.
EXE (executable) files, such as fsutil.exe, are files that contain step-by-step instructions that a computer follows to carry out a function. When you double-click an EXE file, your computer automatically executes these instructions designed by a software developer (eg.
When the scan is finished, locate fsutil.exe in the scan result and tick the checkbox next to the fsutil.exe file. Do not check any other file for removal unless you are 100% sure you want to delete it. Tip: Press CTRL-F to open up FreeFixer's search dialog to quickly locate fsutil.exe in the scan result.
In my task manager a application called fsutil.exe keeps popping sometimes 3 or 4 of them pop up at a time so i have to keep closing them because they slow my computer down alot. they popup alot when im playing online games including league of legends and make me lag too much to play.
Fsutil.exe is a type of EXE file associated with MSDN Disc 2438.7 developed by Microsoft for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Fsutil.exe is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. This EXE file carries a popularity rating of 1 stars and a security rating of UNKNOWN.
Because the fsutil.exe file is a Windows Operating System file it is not recommend you download this file from any website. If this file is missing, it is likely other Windows related files are also missing, we suggest re-installing Windows to make sure your issue is correctly resolved.