How long does it take to drive to Miami Florida from San Antonio Texas? MapQuest estimates the driving time as 21 hours and 13 minutes and gives the distance as 1,383.86 miles. Texas is really big and the size and shape of Florida makes driving time difficult to calculate. It could anything from 40 hours down to 10 hours depending on the chosen route, the vehicle used, the driver/drivers and their need for haste, the road conditions and the weather.
Map of driving directions from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL. Click here to show map. Drag the line on the map to calculate the driving distance for a different route. If you want to verify these driving directions or look for another possible route, you can try. Travel deals near Destin, FL. Save money on your next trip! We found the latest sales and discounts as of Saturday, September 26, 2015. These include hotel deals, cheap flights, vacation packages and more. This is just a sample, you can also browse the full list of Destin Travel Deals.
You can also calculate the cost to drive from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL based on current local gas prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. Since this is a long drive, you might want to stop halfway and stay overnight in a hotel. Travel deals near Destin, FL. Save money on your next trip! We found the latest sales and discounts as of Saturday, September 26, 2015. These include hotel deals, cheap flights, vacation packages and more. This is just a sample, you can also browse the full list of Destin Travel Deals.
Driving distance from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL. The total driving distance from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL is 770 miles or 1 239 kilometers. Your trip begins in San Antonio, Texas. It ends in Destin, Florida. If you are planning a road trip, you might also want to calculate the total driving time from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL so you can see when you'll arrive at your destination. You can also calculate the cost of driving from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL based on current local fuel prices and an estimate of your car's best gas mileage. Since this is a long drive, you might want to stop halfway and stay overnight in a hotel.
The total driving time is 12 hours, 26 minutes. Your trip begins in San Antonio, Texas. It ends in Destin, Florida. If you're planning a road trip, you might be interested in seeing the total driving distance from San Antonio, TX to Destin, FL. Travel deals near Destin, FL. Save money on your next trip! We found the latest sales and discounts as of Saturday, September 26, 2015. These include hotel deals, cheap flights, vacation packages and more. This is just a sample, you can also browse the full list of Destin Travel Deals.
The driving distance from Dallas, TX to Orlando, FL is 1,136 mi-about 16 hours 47 mins. See the link below for a Google Map of the drive w/ directions. Texas is really big and the size and shape of Florida makes driving time difficult to calculate. It could anything from 40 hours down to 10 hours depending on the chosen route, the vehicle used, the driver/drivers and their need for haste, the road conditions and the weather.
How far is it from San Antonio Texas to Calgary? There are 2,016.4 miles between the cities of San Antonio and  Calgary. This would take a person 30 hours driving or 6 hours on a  plane. It's around 1,159 miles when you take I-10 and Merge onto I-75 toward Tampa. We didn' … t stop at all in our trip exept for dining and bathroom breaks. On Google Maps it says that its a 17 hour trip but we took 21 hours. The trip was hard but here are some tips to make it worth while.   * Be Prepared!!!
Driving directions from Houston (Texas) to Destin (Florida). Calculate the Driving Distance Between Houston (Texas) and Destin (Florida) - If you need to reverse this and get a map and driving directions from Destin to Houston click on the link. Driving By Car: If you were in a car and maintained an average speed of 60mph (96 kmh) over the course of your it would take you around 10.96 hours to get from Houston to Destin. We've included a few additional estimates below based on different average speeds.