Corals belong to the phylum Cnidaria, and within that group all are within the class Anthozoa. There are a number of divisions withing Anthozoa, but most of them are referred … to as corals. 4 people found this useful. Bonnie Patterson. 
Class Anthozoa likely appeared in the Precambrian, though the fossil record is sparse and inconclusive. Several soft-bodied Vendian animals are now thought to be early Anthozoa. Sequence analyses also supports the theory that Anthozoa are the first branch of the Phylum Cnidaria (Bridge et al. 1992). Only a few CaCO3-secreting corals or coral-like organisms are known from the early Cambrian (e.g., Sorauf and Savarese 1995), and the Cothoniida, are known from the middle Cambrian. Anthozoans do not have a medusa stage in their development as do other cnidarians. Rather, they release sperm and eggs that form a planula that attaches to a surface on which they grow. A coral head contains thousands of genetically identical polyps, each typically a few millimeters in diameter.
All humans, including those that edit at wiki.Answers.com belong to the species Homo sapiens, of the family Hominidae, of the class Mammalia, of the phylum Chordata. 1 What Are Mammals? 2  Mammals, by definition, are warm-blooded vertebrates that nurse their young and are more or less covered with hair.
Jellyfish belong the phylum Cnidaria which is part of the kingdom Animalia. Apart from the jellyfish, other species that belong to this phylum include corals, sea anemones, hydras, sea pansies, sea fans and sea whips. The word 'Cnidaria' is derived from the Greek word cnidos, which means stinging nettle. The phylum Cnidaria is divided into four main categories or sub groups. They are: Anthozoa: This groups mainly contains sea anemones and corals. Cubozoa: Jellyfish that are known for the potency of their venom, like the box jellyfish, belong to this group.
Corals are marine invertebrates in the class Anthozoa of phylum Cnidaria. They typically live in compact colonies of many identical individual polyps. The group includes the important reef builders that inhabit tropical oceans and secrete calcium carbonate to form a hard skeleton. A coral head is a colony of myriad genetically identical polyps.
Animal Kingdom. The Animal Kingdom is split into several Phyla. Each Phylum group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some animal Phyla: Chordate Phylum: All the animals which have a backbone. Includes: Fish, Reptiles, Birds, Amphibians, and Mammals. Instead of Phyla, the Plant Kingdom is split into Divisions. Each Divsion group contains organisms that have things in common. Below is a list of some plant Divisions: Magnoliophyta Division: All flowering plants. These plants have leaves, stems, and roots. After flowering, they form fruits with seeds.
Corals are classified in the class Anthozoa of the phylum Cnidaria. They are divided into three subclasses, Hexacorallia, Octocorallia, and Ceriantharia. The Hexacorallia include the stony corals, the sea anemones and the zoanthids. These groups have polyps that generally have 6-fold symmetry. They typically live in compact colonies of many identical individual polyps. The group includes the important reef builders that inhabit tropical oceans and secrete calcium carbonate to form a hard skeleton. A coral head is a colony of myriad genetically identical polyps.
Corals are marine organisms of class Anthozoa (Kingdom Animalia, Phylum Cnidaria, Class Anthozoa) that typically live in large colonies of identical individuals. They are important reef builders in tropical seas, and are secretors of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) that forms their hard skeleton. Anthozoans do not have a medusa stage in their development as do other cnidarians. Rather, they release sperm and eggs that form a planula that attaches to a surface on which they grow. A coral head contains thousands of genetically identical polyps, each typically a few millimeters in diameter.
Sea anemones and jellyfish look very different, yet they are both related. Corals are also a close cousin. They all belong to a group called cnidarians (pronounced ‘nid-air-e-ans’), also known as the ‘nettle animals’, because they have stinging tentacles. Cnidarians have a simple body, with a single opening surrounded by a ring of tentacles. They can have two forms: