The ships then made their way back to Europe-completing the last leg and triangle. So the 3 continents involved in the triangular slave trade were Europe, Africa and America. New England sent distilled rum to West Africa in exchange for slaves. West Africa sent slaves to the West Indies in exchange for molasses. The West Indies sent the molasses ba … ck to New England, to repeat the cycle. 3 people found this useful.
Depiction of the Triangular Trade of slaves, sugar, and rum with New England instead of Europe as the third corner. Triangular trade or triangle trade is a historical term indicating trade among three ports or regions. New England also benefited from the trade, as many merchants from New England, especially the state of Rhode Island, replaced the role of Europe in the triangle. New England also made rum from the Caribbean sugar and molasses, which it shipped to Africa as well as within the New World.
Ships that travel these trade routes carried African slaves, manufactured goods, and cash crops between West Africa, … North America, and Europe. The trade proceeded in three steps. The ships left Western Europe for Africa loaded with goods which were to be exchanged for slaves. New England sent distilled rum to West Africa in exchange for slaves. West Africa sent slaves to the West Indies in exchange for molasses. The West Indies sent the molasses ba … ck to New England, to repeat the cycle. 3 people found this useful.
Europe, Africa, and North America were all involved in the Triangular Trade! On the second leg, ships made the journey of the Middle Passage from Africa to the New World. Many slaves died of disease in the crowded holds of the slave ships.
Question and answer. Which three continents were involved in the Triangular Trade? A. Asia, Africa, and Australia B. Europe, Africa, and Asia C. North America, Asia, and Africa D. Europe, Africa, and North America. (More). Questions asked by the same visitor. Which three continents were involved in the Triangular Trade? A. Asia, Africa, and Australia B. Europe, Africa, and Asia C. North America, Asia, and Africa D. Europe, Africa, and North America.
In the American colonies, goods came from two main sources: England and Africa. The first stage of the Triangular Trade involved taking manufactured goods such as cloth, tobacco, metal goods, and cowrie shells from Europe to Africa. These goods were exchanged for African slaves. The second stage of the Triangular Trade (the Middle Passage) involved shipping African slaves to the colonies. The third and final stage of the Triangular Trade involved the return to Europe. Ships returned with goods from the plantations such as cotton, sugar, and tobacco. However, before these goods were loaded on the ship, an entire cleaning of the ships took place.
slaves were brought from Africa to the west indies where they were put to work producing sugar and molasses. We traded these slaves for rum and guns. Slaves were also brought to North America where they picked cotton and produced tobacco and rum. New England sent distilled rum to West Africa in exchange for slaves. West Africa sent slaves to the West Indies in exchange for molasses. The West Indies sent the molasses ba … ck to New England, to repeat the cycle. 3 people found this useful.
The first leg of the triangle was from a European port to Africa, in which ships carried supplies for sale and trade, such as copper, cloth, trinkets, slave beads, guns and ammunition. When the ship arrived, its cargo would be sold or bartered for slaves. New England also benefited from the trade, as many merchants from New England, especially the state of Rhode Island, replaced the role of Europe in the triangle. New England also made rum from the Caribbean sugar and molasses, which it shipped to Africa as well as within the New World.