A grease that is too stiff may not feed into areas requiring lubrication, while a grease that is too fluid may leak out. Grease consistency depends on the type and amount of thickener used and the viscosity of its base oil. A greases consistency is its resistance to deformation by an applied force. 
National Lubricating Grease Institute. The number 2 is a scale created by the National Lubricating Grease Institute to measure the viscosity of industrial grease. The NLGI scale ranges from 000 to 6, with 000 being the most fluid grease and 6 the most solid. more.
Grease is sometimes used to describe lubricating materials that are simply soft solids or high viscosity liquids, but these materials do not exhibit the shear-thinning (thixotropic) properties characteristic of the classical grease. After sufficient force to shear the grease has been applied, the viscosity drops and approaches that of the base lubricant, such as the mineral oil. This sudden drop in shear force means that grease is considered a plastic fluid, and the reduction of shear force with time makes it thixotropic.
The NLGI consistency number (sometimes called “NLGI grade”) expresses a measure of the relative hardness of a grease used for lubrication, as specified by the standard classification of lubricating grease established by the National Lubricating Grease Institute (NLGI). The test grease is inserted into the container and the plunger is stroked 60 times while the test apparatus and grease are maintained at a temperature of 25 °C. Once worked, the grease is placed in a penetration test apparatus. This apparatus consists of a container, a specially-configured cone and a dial indicator.
The NLGI consistency number is also a component of the code specified in standard ISO 6743-9 “lubricants, industrial oils and related products (class L) — classification — part 9: family X (greases)” . The NLGI consistency number alone is not sufficient for specifying the grease required by a particular application. However, it complements other classifications (such as ASTM D4950 and ISO 6743-9). The test grease is inserted into the container and the plunger is stroked 60 times while the test apparatus and grease are maintained at a temperature of 25 °C. Once worked, the grease is placed in a penetration test apparatus. This apparatus consists of a container, a specially-configured cone and a dial indicator.
The characteristic feature of greases is that they possess a high initial viscosity, which upon the application of shear, drops to give the effect of an oil-lubricated bearing of approximately the same viscosity as the base oil used in the grease. This change in viscosity is called thixotropy. After sufficient force to shear the grease has been applied, the viscosity drops and approaches that of the base lubricant, such as the mineral oil. This sudden drop in shear force means that grease is considered a plastic fluid, and the reduction of shear force with time makes it thixotropic.
Certification indicates that NLGI recognizes the individual as a grease expert. Certification is awarded after an individual passes a two-hour exam that consists of 120 questions about lubrication fundamentals and grease types, selection, manufacturing, applications, maintenance, testing, etc. Bloom – The surface color (usually blue or green) of a lubricating oil or grease when viewed by reflected daylight at an angle of about 45 degrees from the surface. Bloom is associated with the absorption of ultraviolet light in the oil and may not be visible if the sample is viewed using artificial light.
The NLGI stands for the National Lubricating Grease Institute and is an international organization that serves the lubricating grease industry. While mineral oil based grease is the most common. Others are: water based lubricants, industrial grease, high temperature grease, dry film lubricants, conveyor lubricants, bearing grease, moly lubricant, synthetic grease – 3/24, dry lubricant bearing grease, and moly grease to name a few.
Greases are classified in one of nine grades based on their consistency. NLGI Grade alone is not sufficient for specifying the grease for a particular application but it is a useful qualitative measure. 
A measure of the stiffness of a grease. A proper consistency will make the grease stay in the bearing without generating too much friction. It is classified according to a scale developed by the NLGI (National Lubricating Grease Institute). The softer the grease, the lower the number. Grease for bearings are typically NLGI 1, 2 or 3