Methods to measure optimism have been developed within both theoretical systems, such as various forms of the Life Orientation Test, for the original definition of optimism, or the Attributional Style Questionnaire designed to test optimism in terms of explanatory style. (1982) is based on the explanatory style definition of optimism. It lists six positive and negative events (you have been looking for a job unsuccessfully for some time), and asks the respondents to record a possible cause for the event and rate the internality, stability, and globality of the event.
A common idiom used to illustrate optimism versus pessimism is a glass with water at the halfway point, where the optimist is said to see the glass as half full and the pessimist sees the glass as half empty. (1982) is based on the explanatory style definition of optimism. It lists six positive and negative events (you have been looking for a job unsuccessfully for some time), and asks the respondents to record a possible cause for the event and rate the internality, stability, and globality of the event.
The other main way to define optimism is to use the concept of 'explanatory style'. This is the approach taken by Professor Martin Seligman, the leader of the Positive Psychology movement and so is the one which is most appropriate for us to outline. The opposite applies when explaining the pervasiveness of good events. The pessimist is likely to see successes as highly specific: Pollyanna is their role model and if they just think positively, everything will turn out for the best in this best of all possible worlds.
Personality is that pattern of characteristic thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that distinguishes one person from another and that persists over time and situations. Personality psychology is a branch of psychology that studies personality and its variation among individuals. Personality is a dynamic and organized set of characteristics possessed by a person that uniquely influences their environment, cognitions, emotions, motivations, and behavioral science in various situations.
The study of personality has a broad and varied history in psychology with an abundance of theoretical traditions. The major theories include dispositional (trait) perspective, psychodynamic, humanistic, biological, behaviorist, evolutionary and social learning perspective. Personality is a dynamic and organized set of characteristics possessed by a person that uniquely influences their environment, cognitions, emotions, motivations, and behavioral science in various situations.
The term is originally derived from the Latin optimum, meaning best. Being optimistic, in the typical sense of the word, is defined as expecting the best possible outcome from any given situation. This is usually referred to in psychology as dispositional optimism. It thus reflects a belief that future conditions will unfold as optimal. (1982) is based on the explanatory style definition of optimism. It lists six positive and negative events (you have been looking for a job unsuccessfully for some time), and asks the respondents to record a possible cause for the event and rate the internality, stability, and globality of the event.
Optimism. Positive Thinking. Optimists have a tendency to make lemonade out of lemons, and to then see the glass as half-full rather than half-empty. It's an admirable quality, one that can positively affect mental and physical health. Some optimists consistently ascribe benevolent motives to others and interpret situations in the best possible light; others simply disassociate their internal mood from external circumstances, no matter how sticky. Keeping your thoughts moving in a positive direction not only makes you feel good in the moment but can also considerably reduce your sadness factor. In addition, it can give you the one thing that we all need to keep our lives moving forward: hope.
The word personality originates from the Latin persona, which means mask. Personality also refers to the pattern of thoughts, feelings, social adjustments, and behaviors consistently exhibited over time that strongly influences one's expectations, self-perceptions, values, and attitudes. Personality is a dynamic and organized set of characteristics possessed by a person that uniquely influences their environment, cognitions, emotions, motivations, and behavioral science in various situations.
Introduction. In psychology, the most commonly used optimism/pessimism construct is dispositional optimism, which is the general tendency to expect positive outcomes, as opposed to dispositional pessimism, which is the general tendency to expect negative outcomes. 