The fee for moving an average 1,000-square-foot, 3-bedroom apartment (goods weighing 5,500 pounds) from Chicago to Miami would be approximately $4,400 to $4,900. The same 1,400-mile move for a 2,800-square-foot, 4-bedroom household (20,500 pounds) would likely cost $14,600 to $15,600. Same distance, different loads. 
Based on my experience in the field, packing costs can be similar to the moving cost itself. A 4 bedroom house can take more than 12h to move from one town to another. In this case your average moving costs will be around $1800 to $2500 without including any packing. For example if you’re moving from Chicago to Boston, MA and you live in a 4 bedroom house, your average moving cost with a full service moving company can go over $10000. But if you are moving locally within 100 miles from your old place, this cost will be based on hourly rate and will vary from company to company.
Most house moving companies want to physically inspect a house and the desired placement location before estimating the cost for them to move it. The cost for moving any size house can range between $12 and $16 per square foot, so obviously a smaller house with not a long distance to travel will be cheaper to move. The roads traveled during the move can add to the cost of the move. The house will need to be inspected as well. Preparing the House for the Move. There are several things that need to be done when getting a house ready to be moved. Before any steps can be taken, the mortgage company or banking holding the mortgage for the house must approve
A total cost of between $8,000 and $40,000 just to actually move the house from the original site to the new site can be considered to be on the cheaper end of the spectrum with costs for moving bigger houses reaching up to hundreds of thousands. The house will need to be inspected as well. Preparing the House for the Move. There are several things that need to be done when getting a house ready to be moved. Before any steps can be taken, the mortgage company or banking holding the mortgage for the house must approve of the move.
Average Cost. Based on 2010 data, the average cost of moving a new home was $20,000 to $40,000. The size of the house, the distance to the new location and the amount of work required to move the building all play a role in the total cost. Purestock/Purestock/Getty Images. When new developments or roads encroach on your home and you have to move, you can take your house with you. The cost of moving the house is often consistent with the cost of building a new home and, in some cases, may be substantially lower. (Goodluz/iStock/Getty Images).
The cost of moving a house starts at about $12 to $16 per square foot but can quickly rise if the home is heavier, bigger or has farther to go [sources: McLinden, Burstein ]. One house builder estimates that moving a large home more than just a few miles can run about $150,000 to $200,000 [source: Fetters ]. In addition to the costs of the actual moving, these expenses should also be considered: 1  Cost of the new home, if you're not moving one that you already own
The cost of moving the house will depend mainly on the time it takes, which depends in turn on the route to be travelled, the size of the house and the degree of difficulty. It can range from a few thousand dollars to move a single-piece house, with the price increasing for the number of pieces, location and difficulty. 
1 Your cost will vary depending on the distance of your move, but a three-bedroom house move usually takes between six to eight hours, putting your move at about $900 to $1300 for labor alone. 2  You may also be charged extra fees for special services and supplies. 1 Any move less than 100 miles is considered a local move. 2  Local movers charge by the hour, with an average rate of about $100 per hour for two movers and a truck. 3  Depending on the amount of goods you need moved, you may need three to four movers, which will increase your hourly rate to about $150 to $170 an hour.