Answer: Muscle spasm results from inflammation that occurs when a muscle is overstretched or torn. It begins as a muscle strain, which doesn't sound like a serious injury, but it can cause severe low back pain. Many people go to the emergency room each year because of a muscle strain. In fact, most episodes of acute lower back pain are caused by damage to the muscles and/or ligaments in the low back. With inflammation, the muscles can spasm leading to severe low back pain and difficulty moving. Lower back pain from a muscle strain occurs most frequently after lifting a heavy object, lifting while twisting, or a sudden movement or fall. The pain is usually localized, meaning it doesn't radiate to the leg.
Like any other muscles in the body, your abdominal muscles can have spasms that occur as a result of muscle strain during heavy use or overuse, fatigue, dehydration, and alcohol or drug use. Abdominal muscle strain is a common injury among athletes and can cause muscle spasms. Abdominal muscle spasm, also known as abdominal rigidity, is a powerful, involuntary contraction of the muscles of the abdomen. During a spasm, the muscle will feel stiff and tender if you apply pressure
Why do muscles twitch. When we experience involuntary muscle contraction and relaxation, it is known as a muscle twitch. A muscle twitch is the result of an electronic impulse sent to that particular muscle by a nerve that is out of voluntary control for the moment at least. 
Neck spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening and shaking, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. In some conditions, such as cervical dystonia, the spasm may cause your head to turn or to jerk. In addition, neck spasms can be symptomatic of either an injury such as a fracture or another disorder, such as: Health Stories: Read how this real patient found the right care. I was in excruciating pain…and you rescued me.
Muscle strains are also known as a pulled muscle. When the muscles in the lower back are strained or torn, the area around the muscles can become inflamed. With inflammation, the muscles can spasm leading to severe low back pain and difficulty moving. Lower back pain from a muscle strain occurs most frequently after lifting a heavy object, lifting while twisting, or a sudden movement or fall. The pain is usually localized, meaning it doesn't radiate to the leg.
1 If muscle spasms are especially painful, if they do not resolve or if they recur, medical care should be accessed to look for possible underlying causes. 2  Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 3  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes. 1 Spasms may affect many different types of muscles in the body, leading to many different symptoms and presentations. 2  Spasms of skeletal muscles are most common and are often due to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities. 3  The spasm occurs abruptly, is painful, and is usually short-lived
Treatment of a Muscle Spasm. When muscle cramps occur, there are several things you can do to help ease them, such as massaging, stretching, or icing the muscle, warming the muscle, or taking a bath with Epsom salt. 
Muscle spasm facts. 1  Spasms may affect many different types of muscles in the body, leading to many different symptoms and presentations. 2  Spasms of skeletal muscles are most common and are often due to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities. 3  The spasm occurs abruptly, is painful, and is usually short-lived. 1 Spasms may affect many different types of muscles in the body, leading to many different symptoms and presentations. 2  Spasms of skeletal muscles are most common and are often due to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities.