Who should get the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13)? All infants beginning at two months of age should receive a four-dose series of vaccine; catch-up vac-cination is recommended for children younger than age 5 years who did not receive vaccine on schedule. This pneumococ-cal polysaccharide vaccine is commonly known as PPSV23. The PPSV23 vaccine is licensed for routine use in adults 65 years and older and people with certain risk factors who are age 2 through 64 years.The first pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, PCV7 (Prevnar 7, Pfizer), was licensed in 2000.
1 Prevenar 13 ® is a 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) mainly suitable for children aged less than 2 years as part of the Childhood Immunization Programme, or for children aged less than 5 years considered to be at high risk of infection. 2  It replaced the 7-valent Prevenar ® vaccine in 2010. 1 If the child is under 1 year of age, they should receive two doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) spaced 2 months apart, before the age of one year if possible, and then a further dose between 12 and 13 months of age (two months after the last PCV13 dose).
1 For children who have already received the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) as part of the Childhood Immunization Programme, give an additional dose of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) when they are two years of age or older (and at least 2 months after their last dose of PCV13). 1 If the child is under 1 year of age, they should receive two doses of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) spaced 2 months apart, before the age of one year if possible, and then a further dose between 12 and 13 months of age (two months after the last PCV13 dose).
Information about recommended immunisations for adults over 65 years of age, including flu. Older adults over 65 years of age, or adults with serious heart, chest, kidney and other long-term health problems, are recommended to get the flu vaccine for protection against flu. Everyone aged over 65 is also recommended to get the Pneumococcal vaccine, which protects against pneumonia, meningitis and septicaemia. One injection provides years of protection. In Scotland around 7000 people aged 70 years and over get shingles every year
People with health problems and the pneumococcal vaccine. The PPV pneumo jab is available on the NHS for children and adults aged from two to 64 years old who are at a higher risk of developing a pneumococcal infection than the general population.
At a Glance. Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) is recommended for all children younger than 5 years old, all adults 65 years or older, and people 6 years or older with certain risk factors. Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) is recommended for all adults 65 years or older. Vaccine Information. The pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, PCV13 or Prevnar 13®, is currently recommended for all children younger than 5 years old, all adults 65 years or older, and people 6 through 64 years old with certain medical conditions.
Babies receive the pneumococcal vaccine as three separate injections, at 2 months, 4 months and 12-13 months. People over-65 only need a single pneumococcal vaccination, which will protect for life. It is not given annually like the flu jab. There are two different types of pneumococcal vaccine: 1  pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) – this is given to all children under two years old as part of the NHS childhood vaccination programme. 2  It's known by the brand name Prevenar 13.
The different types of pneumonia vaccine. There are two different types of pneumococcal vaccine: 1  pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) – this is given to all children under two years old as part of the NHS childhood vaccination programme. 2  It's known by the brand name Prevenar 13.