Nonetheless, if you consume it before the fasting period of 12 hours begins, you should not have any problem with the test results. More often than not, your health care practitioner will guide you regarding what you should eat prior to a test and how long you need to fast. Foods to Avoid Before a Blood Test. Fasting for blood work usually begins 8 to 12 hours before the blood test. During this time, you are not supposed to eat or drink anything (though, some tests may allow drinking water). Given below are some foods that you should avoid for common blood tests.
Fasting is very important. The results of your test will not be accurate if you have had anything to eat or drink within 8 hours. For this reason, if you have not fasted for the full 8 hours, we will not be able to test your blood. We will reschedule your appointment for another day.
Many blood tests don't require any special preparations. For some, you may need to fast (not eat any food) for 8 to 12 hours before the test. Your doctor will let you know how to prepare for blood tests. During a blood test, a small sample of blood is taken from your body. It's usually drawn from a vein in your arm using a needle. A finger prick also might be used.
A triglyceride test is a fasting blood test. 1  You can't eat anything for a period between 12 and 14 hours prior to testing. 2  Water is the only beverage that you may consume while fasting. 3  You'll need to fast the night before and take the test the first thing in the morning to get an accurate reading. A cholesterol test is a fasting blood test. 1  You will have to refrain from eating or drinking anything other than water for a period between 9 and 12 hours before the test. 2  You will need to bring a record of every food and beverage you have consumed for the week prior to testing with you for the doctor to review.
How you prepare. If your blood sample is being tested only for a complete blood count, you can eat and drink normally before the test. If your blood sample will be used for additional tests, you may need to fast for a certain amount of time before the test. Your doctor will give you specific instructions
If your doctor wants to get a fasting blood glucose (sugar), a cholesterol level, or certain other tests, you would need to fast overnight (as others have said, 12 hours is plenty) and I can't think of any blood tests offhand that would require anything more than that. But ask your doctor what is needed. 
1 You can't eat anything for a period between 12 and 14 hours prior to testing. 2  Water is the only beverage that you may consume while fasting. 3  You'll need to fast the night before and take the test the first thing in the morning to get an accurate reading. 4  You should not drink alcohol within 24 hours of testing. A cholesterol test is a fasting blood test. 1  You will have to refrain from eating or drinking anything other than water for a period between 9 and 12 hours before the test. 2  You will need to bring a record of every food and beverage you have consumed for the week prior to testing with you for the doctor to review.
Fasting. If you are required to fast prior to your blood test, your doctor's office will provide you with specific instructions. Most cholesterol and triglyceride blood tests require that you fast for 12 hours prior to your test. If you are having your glucose levels or vitamin levels checked, you will need to fast for at least eight hours prior to your test. Fasting is also not likely required for a blood test that determines your blood counts -- such as a complete blood count, or CBC. The number of blood cells in your body stays the same regardless of whether or not you eat anything.