Soak a clean rag in vinegar and place the rag onto the stain. Allow the vinegar to work into the stain for 5 to 10 minutes. You may need to work in sections for larger stains and apply the vinegar multiple times to see stain lightening. Test an application of hydrogen peroxide in an inconspicuous area of the floor. Instructions. Wipe away any surface dirt and grime with a damp cloth. Working on a dirty floor can result in scratches and gouges, marring the finish even more. Lightly rub the area with the No. 1 steel wool to scour the area, blending with lighter rubbing into the unstained areas
Dark stains on wood flooring are usually caused by urine or water spots that have remained untreated. Once the stain has dried, it can be difficult to remove it entirely from your floor. While staining the floor darker is an option, the dark spots may still be noticeable. 1 Stains that will not lighten may be masked by sanding and staining your entire floor a darker color. 2  However, when you use a stain that is too dark, it may be impossible to lighten the floors later should you be unsatisfied with the result.
Gently rub the abrasive on the white spot until it disappears. Removing Water Stains from Wood Floors. Sometimes, though, water gets down deeper into the wood of your floor and creates a deeper stain that can be black or white depending on the type of wood. This kind of stain requires a bit more effort to remove because it is a deeper stain. How quickly the water starts making a stain depends on the type of wood floor you have, but once the stain is made there are a couple of tips you can use to remove it without damaging the wood. The key to removing water stains from wood floors is to recognize how deeply the stain has penetrated the wood.
Dark stains occur when the water penetrates the finish and goes into the wood, such as a stain on a wood floor where moisture has leached from a planter. In this article, you’ll learn techniques to get water stains off wood, whether the stains appear white or dark. Ad. Method 2 of 3: Removing Dark Stains With Sandpaper. 1. Remove the finish over the stain gently with sandpaper, moving with the grain of the wood. 1  Use #100-grit sandpaper, and then feather the edges with #150-grit sandpaper.
Save. You've decided to fix that dark water spot on your hardwood floor that's been hidden under a throw rug for years. Most dark water stains on hardwood floors are the result of spilled liquids seeping into the polyurethane layers and the uppermost layers of the wood flooring. Removing these stains can restore the beautiful look of your hardwood floors. Restoring your floor will require some elbow grease and patience. Instructions. Wipe away any surface dirt and grime with a damp cloth. Working on a dirty floor can result in scratches and gouges, marring the finish even more. Lightly rub the area with the No. 1 steel wool to scour the area, blending with lighter rubbing into the unstained areas of the floor.
+50. Removing Dark Stains With Sandpaper Remove the finish over the stain gently with sandpaper, moving with the grain of the wood. Use #100-grit sandpaper, and then feather the edges with #150-grit sandpaper. Sand the stain with #150-grit sandpaper, now that you have removed the finish. Wax the wood with a quality polish. Removing Dark Stains With Sandpaper. 1  Remove the finish over the stain gently with sandpaper, moving with the grain of the wood. 2 
Next, remove the old finish and or wax and then use oxalic acid to remove the stain and bring back the original color of the wood. Once the area is dry, simply re-stain or seal it to match the surrounding floor. With some care and attention to detail, removing water stains from wood floors can be relatively simple. How quickly the water starts making a stain depends on the type of wood floor you have, but once the stain is made there are a couple of tips you can use to remove it without damaging the wood. The key to removing water stains from wood floors is to recognize how deeply the stain has penetrated the wood.
Water stains on wood consist of 2 types: white stains and dark stains. White stains are the result of moisture penetrating into the finish, but not into the wood itself. Leaving a glass with condensation on its exterior on wood can cause a white stain that looks like a ring. Method 2 of 3: Removing Dark Stains With Sandpaper. 1. Remove the finish over the stain gently with sandpaper, moving with the grain of the wood. 1  Use #100-grit sandpaper, and then feather the edges with #150-grit sandpaper.