Background. Childhood polyarteritis nodosa (CPAN) is a rare and often fatal disease that affects small and medium arteries. Previously, it had been referred to as infantile polyarteritis nodosa (IPAN). The use of the term infantile is too restrictive, as infancy connotes age 1 year or younger. 
PROGNOSIS. Morbidity and mortality — Untreated polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is associated with a poor prognosis (13 percent five-year survival) [ 5,6 ]. The outcome of PAN has improved in patients receiving treatment; five-year survival is approximately 80 percent [ 7 ]. 
Infantile polyarteritis nodosa is restricted to infants. In polyarteritis nodosa, small aneurysms are strung like the beads of a rosary, therefore making rosary sign an important diagnostic feature of the vasculitis. With treatment, five-year survival is 80%; without treatment, five-year survival is 13%. Death is often a consequence of kidney failure, myocardial infarction, or stroke. Polyarteritis nodosa: Macroscopic specimen of the heart with abundant adipose tissue and nodular thickened coronary vessels. In this disease, symptoms result from ischemic damage to affected organs, often the skin, heart, kidneys, and nervous system.
Your immune system is your body’s defense system. It fights diseases and infections. An autoimmune disease is a condition in which your body's immune system mistakenly attacks your own body. With polyarteritis nodosa, medium-sized arteries and, less commonly, small arteries become inflamed and damaged. Symptoms. Polyarteritis nodosa is a multisystem disease. This means that it affects many parts of your body at the same time. It can affect organs such as the skin, kidney, nerves, and gastrointestinal tract, which includes the mouth, esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a type of vasculitis that mainly affects medium-sized arteries. Vasculitis includes a group of diseases where your immune system attacks the blood vessels and results in inflammation. 
Polyarteritis Nodosa. Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a rare disease that results from blood vessel inflammation (vasculitis) causing injury to organ systems. The areas most commonly affected by PAN include the nerves, intestinal tract, heart, and joints
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a systemic necrotizing vasculitis that typically affects medium-sized muscular arteries and occasionally affects small muscular arteries, resulting in secondary tissue ischemia. 
Polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) is a condition that causes swollen arteries. It primarily affects small and medium-sized arteries, which can become inflamed or damaged. This is a serious disease of the blood vessels caused by an immune system malfunction. 
The outlook for patients with polyarteritis nodosa depends on the degree of damage to affected organs and the response to treatments. For those patients with underlying hepatitis B infection, eradication of the virus is essential for optimal outcome. 