The pyruvic molecules formed in glycolosis enter the mitochondria, where they are converted to acetyl coenzyme A (acetyl CoA). In this complex series of reactions, pyruvate undergoes oxidative decarboxylation. At this point in aerobic respiration, four NADH molecules have been formed from a single starting glucose molecule, two during glycolosis and two during the formation of acetyl CoA from pyruvate. STEP 3: Citric Acid Cycle.
All genomes sequenced to date encode enzymes that use coenzyme A as a substrate, and around 4% of cellular enzymes use it (or a thioester, such as acetyl-CoA) as a substrate. In humans, CoA biosynthesis requires cysteine, pantothenate, and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Coenzyme A is also the source of the phosphopantetheine group that is added as a prosthetic group to proteins such as acyl carrier protein and formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Acetyl coenzyme A or acetyl-CoA is an important molecule in metabolism, used in many biochemical reactions. Its main function is to convey the carbon atoms within the acetyl group to the citric acid cycle (Krebs cycle) to be oxidized for energy production. Structure of coenzyme A (CoASH or CoA) consists of a β-mercaptoethylamine group linked to the vitamin pantothenic acid through an amide linkage. The acetyl group of acetyl-CoA is linked by a high energy thioester to the sulfhydryl portion of the β-mercaptoethylamine
Coenzyme A reacts with acyl groups, giving rise to thioester derivatives, such as acetyl-CoA, succinyl-CoA, malonyl-CoA, and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl (HMG)-CoA. Coenzyme A and its acyl derivatives are required for reactions that generate energy from the degradation of dietary fat, carbohydrates, and proteins. Coenzyme A. Pantothenic acid is a precursor in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) (Figure 1), an essential coenzyme in a variety of biochemical reactions that sustain life (see below). Pantothenic acid kinase II (PANKII) catalyzes the initial step of phosphorylation of pantothenic acid to 4’-phosphopantothenic acid.
The pyruvic molecules formed in glycolosis enter the mitochondria, where they are converted to acetyl Coenzyme-A (acetyl-CoA). In this complex series of reactions, pyruvate undergoes oxidative decarboxylation. The hydrogens removed have reduced NAD+ to NADH. At this point in aerobic respiration, four NADH molecules have been formed from a single starting glucose molecule, two during glycolosis and two during the formation of acetyl-CoA from pyruvate.
In addition, coenzyme A in the form of acetyl-CoA and succinyl-CoA is involved in the citric acid cycle, in the synthesis of essential fats, cholesterol, steroid hormones, vitamins A and D, the neurotransmitter acetylcholine, and in the fatty acid β- oxidation pathway. Coenzyme A. Pantothenic acid is a precursor in the biosynthesis of coenzyme A (CoA) (Figure 1), an essential coenzyme in a variety of biochemical reactions that sustain life (see below). Pantothenic acid kinase II (PANKII) catalyzes the initial step of phosphorylation of pantothenic acid to 4’-phosphopantothenic acid.
Since coenzyme A is, in chemical terms, a thiol, it can react with carboxylic acids to form thioesters, thus functioning as an acyl group carrier. It assists in transferring fatty acids from the cytoplasm to mitochondria. A molecule of coenzyme A carrying an acetyl group is also referred to as acetyl-CoA. Coenzyme A is also the source of the phosphopantetheine group that is added as a prosthetic group to proteins such as acyl carrier protein and formyltetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase.