Academic Honor-President's List. Those students named on the college President's List will have earned a semester grade point average(GPA) of 3.9 or higher on a 4.0 scale. They are normally required to be enrolled in a certain number of credit hours and have no course grade below a 3.0 GPA. Latin Honors. The grade point average(GPA) requirements for Latin Honors vary slightly and may be particular to a specific college or university. These honors are mainly awarded to undergraduates for work that is above average.
What are the qualifications for being admitted to the Honors College? Starting Fall 2014, entering freshmen with composite ACT scores of at least 28 or composite SAT scores of at least 1250 (verbal and quantitative) and at least a 3.50 high school GPA are invited to apply to the Honors College. As a member of The University of Alabama Honors College, you are a member of our Assembly. The Honors College Assembly provides numerous opportunities for students to participate in the non-academic programming of
Current UA students with a minimum 3.3 GPA and at least 12 hours of UA coursework will be accepted into the Honors College upon submission of an application. Starting Fall 2014, all Current UA Students must apply within their first academic year on campus to be eligible for admission. As a member of The University of Alabama Honors College, you are a member of our Assembly. The Honors College Assembly provides numerous opportunities for students to participate in the non-academic programming of the Honors College.
The average SAT score composite at University of Alabama is a 1679. This score makes University of Alabama Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1470, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1860. In other words, a 1470 places you below average, while a 1860 will move you up to above average.
Admission to Honors. Future Students may apply to the Honors College after they have been admitted to The University of Alabama. Admission to the Honors College requires a 28 ACT or 1250 SAT and a minimum 3.5 high school GPA. You will be notified of your acceptance via email. (If your test scores are below the Honors College requirement, you can be admitted later after you have successfully achieved a 3.3 in your college coursework.).
Current UA Students admitted as full-time undergraduates with at least 12 UA hours and a minimum 3.3 overall GPA and Incoming Transfer Students with at least 12 overall hours and a minimum 3.3 overall GPA will be accepted to the Honors College upon submission of their applications. Admission to the Honors College requires a 28 ACT or 1250 SAT and a minimum 3.5 high school GPA. You will be notified of your acceptance via email. (If your test scores are below the Honors College requirement, you can be admitted later after you have successfully achieved a 3.3 in your college coursework.).
The average GPA at University of Alabama is 3.6. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.6, University of Alabama requires you to be above average in your high school class. This score makes University of Alabama Competitive for SAT test scores. The 25th percentile SAT score is 1470, and the 75th percentile SAT score is 1860. In other words, a 1470 places you below average, while a 1860 will move you up to above average.
Current Auburn Students. Students currently enrolled at Auburn who have a 3.4 cumulative unadjusted grade point average may also be considered for admission. Interested students should contact the Honors College Office (844-5860) for more information. 