Acacia confusa is a perennial tree native to South-East Asia. Some local names for it are Acacia Petit Feuille, Small Philippine Acacia, Formosa Acacia (Taiwan Acacia) and Formosan Koa. It grows to a height of 15 m. The tree has become very common in many tropical Pacific areas, including Hawaii, where the species is considered invasive.
About Acacia confusa. Acacia confusa is a perennial tree native to South-East Asia. Some local names for it are Acacia Petit Feuille, Small Philippine Acacia, Formosa Acacia (Taiwan Acacia) and Formosan Koa. It grows to a height of 15 m. The tree has become very common in many tropical Pacific areas, including Hawaii, where the species is considered invasive.
Acacia Koa (or just Koa) is a tree native to hawaii that has become scarce due to over harvesting of it's precious hard wood (it is also essentially considered sacred in Hawaii). Acacia Confusa was brought here by the sugarcane planters to help prevent erosion in cane fields.
Fusarium oxysporum is a soil-borne fungus which is widely present in Hawaiian soils and is the putative cause of koa wilt (Gardner 1980, Anderson and others 2002). The fungus may be a new introduction to Hawaii and may have come in on an ornamental acacia, possibly Formosa koa (Acacia confusa).
Some local names include Acacia Petit Feuille, Small Philippine Acacia, Formosa Acacia (Taiwan Acacia) and Formosan Koa. The tree has become very common in many tropical Pacific areas, including Hawaii, where the species is considered invasive.
Acacia confusa is a perennial tree native to South-East Asia and containing high concentrations of psychoactive tryptamines in its root bark. It appears attractive for use in ayahuasca analogs, though at this point, experience with such preparations remains limited.
General Plant Info. Acacia confusa is a perennial tree native to South-East Asia and containing high concentrations of psychoactive tryptamines in its root bark. It appears attractive for use in ayahuasca analogs, though at this point, experience with such preparations remains limited.