South Walsham is a village and civil parish in the English county of Norfolk. It covers an area of 11.43 km 2 (4.41 sq mi) and had a population of 738 in 303 households at the 2001 census. For the purposes of local government, it falls within the district of Broadland. The village has a Primary School, started in Victorian times and extensively modified since. The school has close links to the Christian Churches in South Walsham and the neighbouring village of Upton
So, where were we? Ah yes, North Walsham train station is Chav heaven, they might be going to Cromer from there. They will all be smoking as they panic about having to spend 15 minutes on a train without cancer sticks. ‘Where did yew get your mewbile unlocked Kevun?’ They will say. Ah yes, North Walsham train station is Chav heaven, they might be going to Cromer from there. They will all be smoking as they panic about having to spend 15 minutes on a train without cancer sticks.
They live in the China Town Ghetto off Aysham Road and the Brick Kiln area, actually they live everywhere but Happisburgh Road, most of Cromer Road and Yarmouth Road. Thursday is Market Day in North Walsham, a good day for them to combine this with being a Thursday morning dole signer. Ah yes, North Walsham train station is Chav heaven, they might be going to Cromer from there. They will all be smoking as they panic about having to spend 15 minutes on a train without cancer sticks.
The town is 7.5 mi (12.1 km) south of Cromer and the same distance north of Wroxham. The county town and city of Norwich is 15 mi (24 km) south. The town is served by North Walsham railway station, on the Bittern Line between Norwich, Cromer and Sheringham. The main road through the town is the A149. Also, the town is located on the B1145 a route which runs between King's Lynn and Mundesley. 32 years later, North Walsham now has a cinema once again, in the form of the Atrium which opened in 2011. The Atrium is a state-of-the-art theatre and cinema with regular screenings and special events around the films.
The comparability of the 2011 population figures with previous census results is restricted because of boundary and methodology changes. 
Town or Parish Councils in Bedford Borough. If you are a town or parish council in Bedford Borough and wish to apply to set up a website please contact Sue Hinde on sue.hinde@bedford.gov.uk for details. Town or Parish Councils in Central Bedfordshire. If you are a town or parish council in Central Bedfordshire and wish to apply to set up a website please contact Sarah Hughes on sarah.hughes@centralbedfordshire
They will be talking in a bizarre ancient language known as ‘Norfolk’ the laziest dialect in the World. North Walsham is a market town 15 miles North East of Norwich. If, like me, you have left North Walsham and only return at Christmas, you will find that all your old school mates have succumbed to being Chavs. Ah yes, North Walsham train station is Chav heaven, they might be going to Cromer from there. They will all be smoking as they panic about having to spend 15 minutes on a train without cancer sticks.