The Channel Master television antenna booster (preamplifier) will-Amplify digital and HD signals received by your antenna. This antenna Amplifier is a high gain, low noise preamplifier used for medium to weak signal areas to allow a weak signal that is present at the antenna to be-Amplified to a viewable strength. 
For Blue zone, and especially Purple zone, channels, or in installations with very long cable runs and a high number of TV sets, the CM7777 may be the better choice. For Red, Blue, and Purple zone channels, it is preferred to use a preamplifier at the antenna instead of a distribution, or drop, amplifier in the house. Connect the coaxial cable from the antenna to the input terminals on the power supply unit. Next, run a length of coaxial cable from the power supply output terminals to the TV. The last step is to plug in the power supply.
Preamplifiers. A pre-amplifier, often called a booster or preamp, is a mast or antenna mounted amplifier that is used to boost the weak incoming signal at the antenna before the signal has had a chance to weaken through the coax cable running between the antenna and the TV. When over-the-air TV signals become weak you will need to boost the signal that is received by your TV antenna with an amplifier, but what type of an amplifier do you need? The following will help you determine the answer to this question.
There will be wires running from the antenna into the box and a lead running down into the house to the television set. However, there are other devices that look similar to masthead amplifiers or it may be out of sight in a roof cavity. Amplifiers usually draw power through the antenna cable from a 240-volt plug pack, which is usually found near or behind the television set. The plug pack is wired to a device known as a power injector attached to the antenna cable going to the antenna.
MAST MOUNTED PREAMPLIFIERS. Chapter Eight-TV ANTENNA-MOUNTED AMPLIFIERS. A mast or TV antenna-mounted amplifier (preamp) is used primarily to eliminate snow on the TV screen. Snow is actually electrical noise that is generated by the TV receiver and other electrical devices. The preamp itself is mounted on the TV antenna boom or on the mast as close to the TV antenna as possible. The power supply unit is mounted indoors. Power is supplied to the preamp unit through the transmission line.
A distribution amplifier is a type of amplifier that is mounted indoors and is used to overcome the signal loss in long cable runs and splitters (used to divide TV signals to multiple locations). When over-the-air TV signals become weak you will need to boost the signal that is received by your TV antenna with an amplifier, but what type of an amplifier do you need? The following will help you determine the answer to this question.
Another possible need for a preamplifier will be on installations with long coaxial cable runs from the antenna to the TV set. If there is 50 feet or more of cable between the antenna and TV set, a preamplifier may provide an improvement. Connect the coaxial cable from the antenna to the input terminals on the power supply unit. Next, run a length of coaxial cable from the power supply output terminals to the TV. The last step is to plug in the power supply.
In stalling a TV Antenna Preamp. A preamp consists of two units: a preamp and a power supply. The preamp itself is mounted on the TV antenna boom or on the mast as close to the TV antenna as possible. The power supply unit is mounted indoors. Power is supplied to the preamp unit through the transmission line.
If there are more than four outlets, and/or the cable length from the antenna to the distribution amplifier input is 50 feet or longer, and the cable length from the distribution amplifier to the TV set are 25 feet or longer, a distribution amplifier will probably be needed. 
The second type of amplified TV antenna are those antennas that don't come with an amplifier. The proper amplifier is chosen to match the reception conditions and is purchased separately from the antenna. These signal amplifiers are designed to be mounted near the antenna onto the mast pipe. This type of amplifier is called a mast mounted amplifier. There are definite advantages to a mast mount amplifier. Any TV antenna can be amplified. There are basically two types of amplified TV antennas. The first type most referred to as an amplified TV antenna are those antennas with the antenna amplifier built into the antenna housing.