A chemical element bonded to an identical chemical element is not a chemical compound since only one element, not two different elements, is involved. Examples are the diatomic molecule hydrogen (H 2) and the polyatomic molecule sulfur (S 8). The physical and chemical properties of compounds differ from those of their constituent elements. This is one of the main criteria that distinguish a compound from a mixture of elements or other substances—in general, a mixture's properties are closely related to, and depend on, the properties of its constituents.
A chemical substance is a form of matter that has constant chemical composition and characteristic properties. It cannot be separated into components by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds. Chemical substances can be chemical elements, chemical compounds, ions or alloys. According to this definition a chemical substance can either be a pure chemical element or a pure chemical compound. But, there are exceptions to this definition; a pure substance can also be defined as a form of matter that has both definite composition and distinct
A mixture is a combination of substances (elements or compounds) can either be homogeneous or heterogeneous. Heterogeneous mixtures do not look the same throughout, so they are easily distinguished from compounds. A heterogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or more substances in it that are easily detected or you can tell apart. A homogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or … more substances, but it is not easy to tell the substances apart by looking at it.
Any substance consisting of two or more different types of atoms (chemical elements) in a fixed proportion of its atoms (i.e., stoichiometry) can be termed a chemical compound; the concept is most readily understood when considering pure chemical substances. The physical and chemical properties of compounds differ from those of their constituent elements. This is one of the main criteria that distinguish a compound from a mixture of elements or other substances—in general, a mixture's properties are closely related to, and depend on, the properties of its constituents.
C has the same properties as CO2, so, C is a compound B is a new white substance = compound Compounds only have a positive ion and a negative ion. C has the same properties as CO2, so, C came from the negative ion. For example CaCO3 when heated produces CaO + CO2 CaO is a compound, so B is a compound. (I know A is a compound because it was broken down into B and C, but I need help determining B and C. An element can not be decomposed. A compound can be decomposed, because a compound is composed of 2 or more elements.
You may have wondered what is meant by the term  pure substance . Here's a look at what a pure substance is and how you can tell if a substance is pure or not. Answer: In a nutshell, a pure substance is any single type of material. A substance can be anything. It doesn't have to consist of a single element or type of molecule. Pure hydrogen is a pure substance
A compound contains 2 or more different elements chemically bonded together (you can't separate them by distillation, filtration, evaporation etc). A mixture contains two or m … ore different substances that are not chemically bonded together. A heterogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or more substances in it that are easily detected or you can tell apart. A homogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or … more substances, but it is not easy to tell the substances apart by looking at it.
918,821 questions onWikianswers. A compound is a combination of two or more elements. A mixture is the same as a solution, containing the solute dissolved in the solvent. A mixture could also be defined as a colloid or a suspension. 
(can u see where this is going) or if each letter of the alphabet was an element, then words would be compounds. Therefore, a compound is not a pure substance but a mixture of two or more substances to form a new substance. A heterogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or more substances in it that are easily detected or you can tell apart. A homogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or … more substances, but it is not easy to tell the substances apart by looking at it.
For example, pure sugar is always composed of molecules of C6H12O6 and always occurs in that proportion--6 atoms of Carbon, 12 atoms of Hydrogen, and 6 atoms of Oxygen. Compounds can only be formed or broken down through a chemical reaction. A heterogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or more substances in it that are easily detected or you can tell apart. A homogenerous mixture is a mixture that has one or … more substances, but it is not easy to tell the substances apart by looking at it.