--------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Introduction. Polioencephalomalacia (PEM) is a common metabolic disorder characterized by neuro-muscular alterations of goats that are thiamine deficient. This disorder may be acute or subacute in nature. Adults and young animals are equally at high risk for developing the disorder. 
Producers should always keep thiamine on hand; the most commonly available strength is 100 mg/ml. Dosage is based on the goat's weight (4-1/2 cc per 100 pounds liveweight for 100 mg/ml thiamine) and must be given every six hours on a 24-hour cycle until all symptoms have disappeared completely to avoid relapse. With Goat Polio and Listeriosis, a goat is usually totally off feed and water. This means that the producer must stomach tube nutrients (electrolytes, energy, protein) into the goat. A 100 pound goat needs one gallon of fluids daily. That is 3,840 cc's.
Boer Goats – Thiamine Dosage for treating Goat Polio Goat polio is a neurological condition caused in goats by a lack of sufficient Thiamine (Vitamin B-1). Technically, this condition is known as Polioencephalomalacia. Normally, the Vitamins B are produced by microorganisms in the gut. In other cases, there is an overgrowth of a certain type of organism that prevents the uptake of the thiamine (being produced by other organisms). Some of the symptoms of goat polio may include star gazing, rapid eye movement, weakness in the back legs, loss of coordination, and seizures.
Injectable multiple B vitamins containing only 25mg/ml of thiamine require four times the 100mg/ml dosage (18-1/2 cc) per 100 pounds bodyweight, so the producer can quickly see the importance of obtaining the proper strength of injectable B vitamins. The key to overcoming Goat Polio is early diagnosis and treatment. With Goat Polio and Listeriosis, a goat is usually totally off feed and water. This means that the producer must stomach tube nutrients (electrolytes, energy, protein) into the goat. A 100 pound goat needs one gallon of fluids daily. That is 3,840 cc's.
Another recommendation that uses vitamin B1 instead of Thiamine. The dosage for B1 (thiamine) is 500 mg per 100 weight every six hours, so check any B vit. to make sure you give your goat enough of the B1, and as you say overdosing will not hurt them, they urinate out what they don't need. Usually have to give this amount, every six hours, for a week at least. Causes. 1  Things that can cause the rumen to not produce the required thiamine are: 2  Rumen acidosis cause by excessive concentrate feeding and sudden feed changes. 3  Moldy feeds. 4  Thiabendazole-active ingredient in some wormer medication like Thibenzole Sheep & Goat Wormer. 5  Levamisole-wormer. 6  Some types of ferns. 7  Following a shot of an antibiotic. 8  Overdo
The official name for Goat Polio is Polioencephalomalacia. It is a nutritional /metabolic disease that affects primarily ruminants, including goats. Metabolic means relating to metabolism, the whole range of biochemical processes that occur within the goat's rumen. Causes. 1  Things that can cause the rumen to not produce the required thiamine are: 2  Rumen acidosis cause by excessive concentrate feeding and sudden feed changes. 3  Moldy feeds. 4  Thiabendazole-active ingredient in some wormer medication like Thibenzole Sheep & Goat Wormer. 5  Levamisole-wormer. 6  Some types of ferns. 7  Following a shot of an antibiotic. 8  Overdo
As for the thiamine, I give 1 gram as a first dose: 500mg SQ, and 500mg IM. The SQ takes longer to work but sustains the blood levels longer. On day 2, I restart the rumen with Calf Pac, and continue the Thiamin each day until the goat is well. Causes. 1  Things that can cause the rumen to not produce the required thiamine are: 2  Rumen acidosis cause by excessive concentrate feeding and sudden feed changes. 3  Moldy feeds. 4  Thiabendazole-active ingredient in some wormer medication like Thibenzole Sheep & Goat Wormer. 5  Levamisole-wormer. 6  Some types of ferns. 7  Following a shot of an antibiotic. 8  Overdo
Baytril 100 (not Baytril 2.27%) is approved for use in livestock. (cattle in certain circumstances). Usage in goats is off-label or extra-label, but this antibiotic is being used in goats by some veterinarians. The appropriate IM dosage is 4 cc's per 100 lbs. of body weight for five consecutive days. Do not use the single-use dosage; goats need five-consecutive-day application.
Goat Polio (Polioencephalomalacia) is a metabolic disease with symptoms that often mimic or overlap those of the brain-stem disease Listeriosis (Listeria monocytogenes). In most cases, both of these diseases are seen in goats raised under intensive management conditions. With Goat Polio and Listeriosis, a goat is usually totally off feed and water. This means that the producer must stomach tube nutrients (electrolytes, energy, protein) into the goat. A 100 pound goat needs one gallon of fluids daily. That is 3,840 cc's.