I don't want to leave my two children with the burden of paying the mortgage. -- Esther. Dear Esther, Mortgage life insurance is a policy sold by your mortgage company/bank that pays off your mortgage upon your death. The beneficiary of this type of policy is almost always the mortgage company. Under some circumstances, that may be your preference. 
Like the name implies, mortgage life insurance, or mortgage protection insurance, is there to repay your mortgage in the event you die or are disabled and can no longer make payments. You will be offered mortgage life insurance when you fill out loan papers for your house and sign your mortgage. Mortgage life insurance premiums are a fixed rate, but the payout is generally fixed to your mortgage principle*. So the value of the policy decreases as you repay your mortgage. Buying a standard term life insurance policy gives you a fixed premium and a fixed payout.
If anyone depends on your income, be sure that you purchase life insurance to help them pay the mortgage and other expenses after your death. The Hard Sell. Mortgage protection insurance companies might try to convince you that you need their product in addition to life insurance. They’ll tell you that paying off the mortgage will eat up a major portion of your life insurance proceeds, leaving much less for your survivors to meet their basic living expenses. The solution they offer is a program claiming to “protect your family in case of an unexpected tragedy by paying off your mortgage.” It’s called a mortgage protection program or mortgage protection
Mortgage life insurance-also referred to as mortgage protection-is a type of life insurance that pays out if you die before you finish paying your mortgage, ensuring that your spouse and dependants don t need to worry about the monthly repayments. It can be called mortgage life insurance or assurance. It might sound obvious, but if you take out mortgage life insurance you need to make sure the sum is enough to pay off your mortgage, should you die first. For example, if you've got a 10-year mortgage for 200,000 it needs to cover this.
Benefits. VMLI provides up to $200,000 mortgage life insurance and is payable only to the mortgage holder (i.e., a bank or mortgage lender), not to a beneficiary. The amount of coverage will equal the amount of the mortgage still owed, but the maximum can never exceed $200,000. Veterans' Mortgage Life Insurance (VMLI) is mortgage protection insurance that can help families of severely disabled Servicemembers or Veterans pay off the home mortgage in the event of their death.
Like many other types of life insurance, mortgage protection insurance may not be available after a certain age. State Farm, for example, only offers 30-year mortgage protection insurance to applicants age 45 or younger; the age limit is 36 in New York. You’ll need to be 60 or younger to get a 15-year policy. The solution they offer is a program claiming to “protect your family in case of an unexpected tragedy by paying off your mortgage.” It’s called a mortgage protection program or mortgage protection life insurance.
Mortgage life insurance pays off your mortgage if you die before it's paid off. There are two types of life insurance that you can get to cover your mortgage. Decreasing term life cover is the most common type and pays out what's left to pay on your mortgage. It might sound obvious, but if you take out mortgage life insurance you need to make sure the sum is enough to pay off your mortgage, should you die first. For example, if you've got a 10-year mortgage for 200,000 it needs to cover this.
Mortgage life insurance is expensive for the amount of coverage. The premiums you pay at the beginning of your mortgage are probably in line with the amount of coverage you are receiving, but as time goes on you receive much less coverage for the money. Mortgage life insurance premiums are a fixed rate, but the payout is generally fixed to your mortgage principle*. So the value of the policy decreases as you repay your mortgage. Buying a standard term life insurance policy gives you a fixed premium and a fixed payout.