Those in the two lower regions, the sacrum and coccyx, are united in the adult to form two bones and are called, the fixed vertebrae. Human Vertebral Column. With the exception of the first two cervical vertebrae, all the movable vertebrae have similar structure; A typical vertebra is a bony ring. Five sacral vertebrae form the sacrum. Four coccygeal vetebrae form the coccyx or tail. The vertebrae in the three upper regions remain separate or distinct throughout life, and are called the movable
Five lumbar vertebrae form the lumbar region or loins. Five sacral vertebrae form the sacrum. Four coccygeal vetebrae form the coccyx or tail. The vertebrae in the three upper regions remain separate or distinct throughout life, and are called the movable vertebrae.
The human vertebral column consists of 33 vertebrae. These are divided into different regions, which correspond to the curves of the spinal column. These regions are called the cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, sacrum and coccyx. There are a total of 33 vertebrae in the vertebral column. The articulating vertebrae are named according to their region of the spine. There are seven cervical vertebrae, twelve thoracic vertebrae and five lumbar vertebrae. The vertebral column consists of vertebrae. The vertebrae of the cervical, thoraic and lumbar spines are independent bones, and generally quite similar. The vertebrae of the sacrum and coccyx are usually fused and unable to move independently.
There are 33 total vertebrae in five sections: Each vertebra is named according to its section and its number from the top: C1 through C7, T1 through T12, L1 through L5 and the sacral-coccyx section, which are formed into one and are not movable. Lastly there is the sacral spine and then the coccyx, or tailbone. The intervertebral disks are shock absorbers which are located in between the vertebrae. The spinal nerves are nerves which exit out of the sides of the vertebrae at most levels through the spinal canal.
1 The vertebrae are arranged into five regions, but only 24 of them are (7 cervical, 12 thoracic and 5 lumbar) are movable. 2  In adults, the five sacral vertebrae are fused to form the sacrum and the four coccygeal vertebrae are fused to form the coccyx. 
Click to read more below. The L4 vertebra is the penultimate of the five (5) lumbar vertebrae, located just above the fixed vertebrae of the sacrum and thus one of the last of the true vertebrae or movable vertebrae in the spinal column. 
Ask a Doctor Online Now! The first of the sacral vertebrae, S1, is in direct contact with the largest movable vertebra in the body – L5. The weight of the entire upper body is carried by L5 which then transmits this weight to the sacrum. The upper half of the sacrum in turn transmits this weight to the pelvic girdle. 
The vertebral column usually consists of 33 vertebrae: 24 presacral vertebrae (7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar) followed by the sacrum (5 fused sacral vertebrae) and the coccyx (4 frequently fused coccygeal vertebrae). The 24 presacral vertebrae allow movement and hence render the vertebral column flexible. 39-10 and 39-11). Five (sometimes six) vertebrae are fused in the adult to form the sacrum, which can be felt below the small of the back.. The sacrum articulates above with L5, laterally with the hip bones, and inferiorly with the coccyx.
The human vertebral column is the vertebral column (backbone or spine) of the human skeleton, consisting of 24 articulating vertebrae and 9 fused vertebrae in the sacrum and the coccyx. The vertebrae in the column are separated from each other by intervertebral discs. The vertebral column consists of vertebrae. The vertebrae of the cervical, thoraic and lumbar spines are independent bones, and generally quite similar. The vertebrae of the sacrum and coccyx are usually fused and unable to move independently.