These lentil-like beans have black skins covering creamy white interiors. Whole urad dal derive their strong, earthy flavor from the black skins and are often used in curries. Split urad dal retain the skins and also have a strong flavor. Skinned and split urad dal are creamy white and somewhat bland. Season: available year-round.
Also Known as. Split black lentils, Black gram dal. Description. Split urad dal retains the skin and also has a strong flavour. Skinned and split urad dal is creamy white and somewhat bland. When boiled, the dal has an unusual mucilaginous texture. Tempered aromatically, it can be used as an accompaniment to rotis and rice. Ground into flour or paste, it is extensively used in culinary preparations like dosa, idli, vada, and papad.
Vigna mungo, black gram, black lentil, mungo bean (not to be confused with the much smaller true black lentil (Lens culinaris)), black matpe bean, is a bean grown in the Indian subcontinent. At one time it was considered to belong to the same species as the mung bean. 
Although wheat is the most important source, there are other foods from which flour is made. India produces a flour called Urad or Urad dal which is made from a small black bean called black gram. This popular Indian flour is used to make culinary items such as uttappams, pooris, chappaties and dosa. The source of Urad flour is a small black bean that is grown commercially in India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Myanmar. The cultivated plant goes by the name of black gram, or Vigna mungo, while Vigna mungo var.silvestris, which is native to India and Pakistan is considered to be its wild ancestor.
3. Cooked urad dal should be stored in the refrigerator and can be used for up to 3 or 4 days. More From List of Indian Dals. Urad dal, also known as white lentil or black lentil is a kind of bean from List of Indian Dals and mostly used in Southern part of Asia. Urad dal is used as a major ingredient in Indian cuisine for preparing a healthy diet. Urad dal has protein, fat, and carbohydrates which is required by the body. 
Substitutes: channa dal OR yellow split peas OR pigeon peas. urad dal = black lentil = black gram = kali dal Notes: These lentil-like beans have black skins covering creamy white interiors. Whole urad dal derive their strong, earthy flavor from the black skins and are often used in curries. Split urad dal retain the skins and also have a strong flavor. 
Skinless (Decorticated) whole beans, Dhuli Urad 3. Skin-on split beans, Chilke wali Dal 4. Skinless (Decorticated) split bean, Dhuli Dal Check your recipe what form is needed. You can buy these beans on-line, or at any Indian or Pakistani Store Now a word about Dal. This type of black bean is also called black Matpe Urad is the name in Hindi. The raw Urad beans are sold in many forms 1. Skin-on whole beans, Urad 2.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Urad is a type of black beans grown in India Pakistan Bangladesh and South Africa. This type of black bean is also called black Matpe Urad is the name in Hindi. The raw Urad beans are sold in many forms 1. Skin-on whole beans, Urad 2.
Urad, Urad Dal Chilka (split urad with skin), and Urad Dal (split urad without skin). Urad (also known as black gram, black lentil, Hindi: urad, Gujarati: adad), is a little black seed with a white interior. It is very similar to a mung bean in size and shape but tastes entirely different. 