Green vegetables (including some salad vegetables), beetroot, cauliflower, asparagus, dried peas, beans and lentils are a good source of folate. Cruciferous vegetables (such as broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, brussels sprouts and bok choy) are believed to have compounds which provide protection against some cancers. Legumes are the seeds of the plant and are eaten in their immature form as green peas and beans, and the mature form as dried peas, beans, lentils and chickpeas. Vegetables can be broken up into different groups, with each group providing their own unique nutrients.
Peas. Peas are members of the legume family, which also includes a wide variety of beans. One of the main distinctions between peas and beans is that peas tend to grow in vines that require support, whereas most beans grow in self-supporting bushes. Peas also favor cooler climates than beans do. 
Well-known legumes include alfalfa, clover, peas, beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob, soybeans, peanuts and tamarind. A legume fruit is a simple dry fruit that develops from a simple carpel and usually dehisces (opens along a seam) on two sides. A common name for this type of fruit is a pod, although the term pod is also applied to a few other fruit types, such as that of vanilla (a capsule) and of radish (a silique). Grain legumes are cultivated for their seeds, and are also called pulses. The seeds are used for human and animal consumption or for the production of oils for industrial uses. Grain legumes include beans, lentils, lupins, peas, and peanuts.
A legume (/ˈlɛɡjuːm/ or /ˌləˈɡjuːm/) is a plant in the family Fabaceae (or Leguminosae), or the fruit or seed of such a plant. Legumes are grown agriculturally, primarily for their food grain seed (example beans and lentils, or generally pulse), for livestock forage and silage, and as soil-enhancing green manure. Legumes are notable in that most of them have symbiotic nitrogen-fixing bacteria in structures called root nodules. Grain legumes are cultivated for their seeds, and are also called pulses. The seeds are used for human and animal consumption or for the production of oils for industrial uses. Grain legumes include beans, lentils, lupins, peas, and peanuts.
A number of legumes are labeled as peas, including green peas, snow peas, snap peas, split peas and black-eyed peas. Similar to beans, peas contain high concentrations of carbohydrates and protein but little fat. The most common varieties of legumes are beans. These include adzuki beans, black beans, soybeans, anasazi beans, fava beans, garbanzo beans (chickpeas), kidney beans and lima beans. These foods are high in protein and carbohydrates but low in fat.
Beans and peas are the mature forms of legumes. They include kidney beans, pinto beans, black beans, lima beans, black-eyed peas, garbanzo beans (chickpeas), split peas and lentils. They are available in dry, canned, and frozen forms. 
Vegetable Legumes. Dry beans* . Dry beans are a low-input crop with little or no fertilizer and few crop protection chemicals. Consists of beans that ripen prior to harvest and are sold dry, such as black-eyed peas, cowpeas, pintos (yields 3,000 pounds per acre), and kidney beans. Black-eyes yield 1,500 to 2,000 pounds. Beans and Vegetables Legumes. Beans and vegetable legumes shown in Table 9 (Crop Group 6) include several dry and succulent beans and peas, such as Southern peas and green/snap beans, as well as lima and mung beans. They are grown predominately in the High Plains and Rolling Plains.
Beans and other legumes: Cooking tips. This guide describes common types of beans and legumes, tips for preparing them, and ways to add more legumes to your meals and snacks. Legumes — a class of vegetables that includes beans, peas and lentils — are among the most versatile and nutritious foods available. Legumes are typically low in fat, contain no cholesterol, and are high in folate, potassium, iron and magnesium. They also contain beneficial fats and soluble and insoluble fiber. Dried beans and legumes, with the exceptions of black-eyed peas and lentils, require soaking in room-temperature water, a step that rehydrates them for more even cooking. Before soaking, pick through the beans, discarding any discolored or shriveled ones or any foreign matter.