Lacto vegetarian: Lacto vegetarians don’t eat meat or eggs, but do eat dairy products. Ovo vegetarian: Ovo vegetarians don’t eat meat or dairy, but do eat eggs. Vegan: Vegans avoid eating any animal products. They don’t eat any meat products, milk, cheese, eggs, honey, or gelatin. Many vegans (and some other types of vegetarians) choose not to wear clothes containing animal products, such as leather, wool, or silk, or wear makeup that may have been tested on animals. 
Vegetarians are non meat eaters so you can have dairy although many do not consider fish to be meat. Vegans do not eat anything that is produced by an animal such as milk or cheese and eggs. juliar2901 · 9 years ago. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes it is vegans that cannot have dairy products including milk yogurt cheese cream. If you eat dairy products and still refrain from eating meat you will then turn to a vegetarian. You can only live the life of a vegan or a vegetarian and can't like convert. It is a way how you choose your life
Vegetarians commonly avoid animal flesh, which includes beef, pork, lamb, venison, buffalo, poultry and seafood. Lacto-ovo vegetarians include dairy and egg products in their diet. Some decide they do not want to eat eggs, but are okay with dairy products; they are called lacto-vegetarians. Others are fine with eating eggs but exclude milk and dairy products from their diet; they are known as ovo-vegetarians. Breads are not excluded from these diet regimens unless they contain animal ingredients. The most extreme on the vegetarian scale, the vegan diet contains no animal products. There is no flesh of any animal, no eggs and no milk. Vegans carefully read ingredient labels to be certain no animal byproducts are included, such as casein or whey from milk, or material from animal hides used to make gelatin.
Yes, if you are a ovo/lacto vegetarian then you can eat dairy and egg products. However, strict vegetarians do not. If you are vegan you wouldn't eat meat or dairy and egg products. A vegan isn't someone who just doesn't eat meat, eggs, or dairy. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes it is vegans that cannot have dairy products including milk yogurt cheese cream. If you eat dairy products and still refrain from eating meat you will then turn to a vegetarian. You can only live the life of a vegan or a vegetarian and can't like convert. It is a way how you choose your life
Vegetarians do not eat meat, fish, or poultry. Vegans, in addition to being vegetarian, do not use other animal products and by-products such as eggs, dairy products, honey, leather, fur, silk, wool, cosmetics, and soaps derived from animal products. 
Report Abuse. Most vegetarians do drink milk and eat dairy products and eggs. Strict vegetarians, or vegans, don't eat any animal by-products, including dairy, eggs, and often honey. So you can absolutely become a vegetarian and still drink milk/eat eggs if you would like to.
Vegetarians eat a diet of grains, pulses, nuts, seeds, fruit and vegetables, dairy products and eggs. Vegetarians who also don't eat eggs and dairy products are called vegans. There are three main types of vegetarian: 1  Lacto-ovo-vegetarians eat both dairy products and eggs. 2  This is the most common type of vegetarian diet. 3  Lacto-vegetarians eat dairy products but not
Lacto-ovo vegetarians that include dairy products can still obtain calcium from dairy sources like milk, yogurt, and cheese. Non-dairy milks that are fortified with calcium, such as soymilk and almond milk can also contribute a significant amount of calcium in the diet. One of the main differences between a vegan and a typical vegetarian diet is the avoidance of both eggs and dairy products such as milk, cheese, butter and yogurt. Ethical vegans do not consume dairy or eggs because they state that their production causes the animal suffering and/or a premature death.