1 Sign in to Skype and to Microsoft Outlook. 2  In Microsoft Outlook, go to your contacts Address Book or open your Skype contact’s Message window, and hover over the contact’s email address to see their status and mood message.
If you have your contact’s Skype primary email address in your Microsoft Outlook Address Book, or if they send an email to your Microsoft Outlook account from their Skype primary email address, you can see their status, send them instant messages and call them directly from Microsoft Outlook.
If you have Contacts in the Contacts folder but they are not accessible when you click on the To button, check these settings: Make sure the Contact folder is enabled as an email address book. Right click the Contacts folder, choose Properties then Outlook Address Book.
If your contacts see your email instead of your phone number when you send messages. Sign out of iMessage and FaceTime, then sign back in: 1  On your iPhone first, sign back in to iMessage and FaceTime.
In the Contacts section, click Import Contacts and select the provider you want to import your contacts from: Facebook, Google, Outlook, another Yahoo account or upload a .csv or .vcf file. Storage. Yahoo Mail gives you the most free storage of any email provider.
In the Delete group, click Junk, and then click Block Sender. If you don’t have a message from the person, you can still manually add email addresses to the Blocked Senders List: Click Home. In the Delete group, click Junk, and then click Junk Email Options. On the Blocked Senders tab, click Add.
Sky Yahoo! Mail. Following the switchover from the old Sky Email, the new Sky Yahoo! Mail service is up and running. If you're already on Sky Yahoo! Mail: • You can find the answers to common questions in Your questions answered, as well as more information in Sky Help & Support.
With Sky Yahoo Mail, it's easy to keep in touch, prioritise work, check messages and even organise family events-wherever you are. Simple to set up. It's easy to transfer your contacts over and set Sky Yahoo Mail to show emails from other accounts so you can see all your messages in one place.