There will come a time after you have your belly button pierced that you will want to change the jewelry. In order to avoid health risks such as infection, you must ensure that your piercing is fully healed before trying to change your belly button ring. A fully healed piercing won’t hurt at all and the area around the piercing will be the same color as the rest of your skin. If you are unsure if your belly button is healed, go to the piercer you used and ask her if it is healed enough to change the jewelry. Some piercing shops will change the jewelry for you.
You should wait a couple months before you change your belly button ring after you have gotten it pierced for the first time. The piercing needs to heal and be cleaned repeatedly before you attempt to change the ring to something more stylish. I suggest six months, but it also depends on how long it takes your piercing to heal. When you go to get your piercing changed, ask the person who is going to change it. They usually have a good idea if it's ready or not. it all depends on the person.. it usually takes about 4 to 6 months for it to completely heal, but for some people it only takes 2 or 3 months
Report Abuse. My brother is a piercer and a tattooist. The changing of the ring could take anywhere from 2 weeks to a month. It just depends of how well it is healing. If there are so infection problems, no redness, or puss. And you can move the ring without it getting stuck. You can change it at the two week mark
you can change it honestly. If its been a yr you can change it but just remember to always have your navel ring in cause if not it will close up. i had mine done yr and 6 months and i already changed mine alots of time i have like at least 8 different navel curved bar bells and all different colors as well.
Before you attempt to remove the belly button ring, you must wash your hands and your navel area. Use antibacterial soap for your hands and saline solution for your belly button. Once your hands and navel are clean, grab the ring with one hand and hold it firmly. Use your other hand to turn the ball to the left. A fully healed piercing won’t hurt at all and the area around the piercing will be the same color as the rest of your skin. If you are unsure if your belly button is healed, go to the piercer you used and ask her if it is healed enough to change the jewelry. Some piercing shops will change the jewelry for you.
Answer   You should wait a couple months before you change your belly button  ring after you have gotten it pierced for the first time. The  piercing needs to heal and be cleaned repeatedly before you attempt  to change the ring to something more stylish. I suggest six months,  but it also depends on how long it takes your piercing to heal.  When you go to get your piercing changed, ask the person who is  going to change it. They usually have a good idea if it's ready or  not.   it all depends on the person.. Any professional body piercer will tell you the jewelry should be left in place for a minimum of 3 to 6 months. Here's the reason, changing the jewelry too soon puts unneeded stress on the newly forming tissue in the piercing. This can damage the piercing and prolong the healing time substantially.
It is not advisable to change your belly button ring before 6 months and during this period you should wear your belly ring at all times to prevent the piercing from closing.  I know you don't want to wait this long, so I'd say to wait until it feels healed to you. That it doesn't hurt when you move the ring. The changing of the ring could take anywhere from 2 weeks to a month. It just depends of how well it is healing. If there are so infection problems, no redness, or puss. And you can move the ring without it getting stuck. You can change it at the two week mark
Be careful with it, a dangle can get caught and pull on a still healing belly button piercing, go for a short one first and after a while if you want to get a longer one but I wouldn't suggest it for the snagging possibility. I took a new ring to the shop that pierced my cartilage the first time and he changed it for me. Stainless steel and surgical steel are best. Anything with copper or a silver coating can cause an infection quickly.