1 For optimal breeding, the male should be at least 18 months old and the female should be at least 24 months old. 2  They should both be at least 18 inches in length from snout to tail. 3  The female should weigh at least 350 grams. 1 To do this, hold your bearded dragon on his back in your hand and gently bend his tail toward his back at a 90-degree angle; be careful not to damage the vertebrae in his tail when you bend it. 2  Two hemipenile bulges on either side of the tail indicate a male; one centered bulge or no bulge at all indicates a female.
Best Answer: When they get up from brumation, if ready to breed, it takes little effort on our part. If you have had bearded dragons for very long, you know how all the boys are all the time! The girls will get that way also, some even jump on the males trying to mate them or other females they are in contact with!
Bearded dragons tend to lay eggs around 4 to 6 weeks after a successful mating, and the eggs can hatch anything between 50 to 100 days plus after laying. You will need to keep the hatchlings for at least 8 weeks after hatching, and maybe longer if it's difficult to find new homes for them all. 
Before setting up a pair of bearded dragons for breeding, it is essential that the habitat is correct for the species. There should be a temperature gradient of 77 to 88 degrees Fahrenheit with a focal basking spot of 105 degrees. Female bearded dragons aren’t very maternal, and they don’t guard their eggs in captivity. Most likely your female wouldn’t recognize her babies, so she and her mate would begin consuming them. Let’s go over the basics and take it from there.
Juvenile bearded dragons. Before setting up a pair of bearded dragons for breeding, it is essential that the habitat is correct for the species. There should be a temperature gradient of 77 to 88 degrees Fahrenheit with a focal basking spot of 105 degrees. The beardies should be on a balanced diet with adequate calcium. Female bearded dragons aren’t very maternal, and they don’t guard their eggs in captivity. Most likely your female wouldn’t recognize her babies, so she and her mate would begin consuming them. Let’s go over the basics and take it from there.
By puffing out their throat area, both males and females can display a beard, although the male's is usually a much darker almost pitch black beard. Adult bearded dragons average 15 to 24 inches in length, while hatchlings are between 3 to 4 inches at birth. Young dragons grow fast and are sexually mature by one year of age. Juvenile beardeds usually start showing their coloration by two months of age. 
1 Female bearded dragons typically lay their eggs in the afternoon or early evening. 2  You may want to start watching her around this time of day to see if she looks ready to lay her eggs. 3  Females usually lay between about 24 eggs at a time, but can also lay as few as15 and as many as 50. 4  A group of eggs is called a clutch. 1 To do this, hold your bearded dragon on his back in your hand and gently bend his tail toward his back at a 90-degree angle; be careful not to damage the vertebrae in his tail when you bend it. 2  Two hemipenile bulges on either side of the tail indicate a male; one centered bulge or no bulge at all indicates a female.
1 For this reason, it would be good to have your dragons tested repeatedly before breeding. 2  Have your veterinarian check your bearded dragons’ ages, lengths, and weights. 3  For optimal breeding, the male should be at least 18 months old and the female should be at least 24 months old. 1 To do this, hold your bearded dragon on his back in your hand and gently bend his tail toward his back at a 90-degree angle; be careful not to damage the vertebrae in his tail when you bend it. 2  Two hemipenile bulges on either side of the tail indicate a male; one centered bulge or no bulge at all indicates a female.
1 Have your veterinarian check your bearded dragons’ ages, lengths, and weights. 2  For optimal breeding, the male should be at least 18 months old and the female should be at least 24 months old. 3  They should both be at least 18 inches in length from snout to tail. 1 To do this, hold your bearded dragon on his back in your hand and gently bend his tail toward his back at a 90-degree angle; be careful not to damage the vertebrae in his tail when you bend it. 2  Two hemipenile bulges on either side of the tail indicate a male; one centered bulge or no bulge at all indicates a female.