LPL encodes lipoprotein lipase, which is expressed on endothelial cells in the heart, muscle, and adipose tissue. LPL functions as a homodimer, and has the dual functions of triglyceride hydrolase and ligand/bridging factor for receptor-mediated lipoprotein uptake. Lipoprotein lipase has been shown to interact with LRP1. It is also a ligand for α2M, GP330, and VLDL receptors. LPL has been shown to be a ligand for LRP2, albeit at a lower affinity than for other receptors; however, most of the LPL-dependent VLDL degradation can be attributed to the LRP2 pathway.
Primary function of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase. up vote 8 down vote favorite. I read here and here that the function of lipoprotein lipase is to facilitate fat uptake and storage in adipose tissue. Could anyone provide a slightly more expanded explanation, without going into too much detail, and without the use of too much jargon (I am not a biologist). 
LPL requires ApoC-II as a cofactor. LPL is attached to the luminal surface of endothelial cells in capillaries by the protein glycosylphosphatidylinositol HDL-binding protein 1 (GPIHBP1) and by heparin sulfated proteoglycans. It is most widely distributed in adipose, heart, and skeletal muscle tissue, as well as in lactating mammary glands. Lipoprotein lipase has been shown to interact with LRP1. It is also a ligand for α2M, GP330, and VLDL receptors. LPL has been shown to be a ligand for LRP2, albeit at a lower affinity than for other receptors; however, most of the LPL-dependent VLDL degradation can be attributed to the LRP2 pathway.
Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) (EC 3.1.1.34) is a member of the lipase gene family, which includes pancreatic lipase, hepatic lipase, and endothelial lipase. Lipoprotein lipase has been shown to interact with LRP1. It is also a ligand for α2M, GP330, and VLDL receptors. LPL has been shown to be a ligand for LRP2, albeit at a lower affinity than for other receptors; however, most of the LPL-dependent VLDL degradation can be attributed to the LRP2 pathway.
The LPL gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called lipoprotein lipase. This enzyme is found primarily on the surface of cells that line tiny blood vessels (capillaries) within muscles and in fatty (adipose) tissue. The official name of this gene is “lipoprotein lipase.”. LPL is the gene's official symbol. The LPL gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
Lipoprotein Lipase. Lipoprotein lipase is an enzyme that is important for the transfer of triglycerides from your blood lipoproteins into your tissues. Insulin stimulates lipoprotein lipase production, especially in your fatty tissues. The enzyme then adheres to the inside of tiny blood vessels in your tissues called capillaries. Lipoprotein lipase breaks down the triglycerides in the lipoproteins to smaller fatty acids and monoglycerides that are transported into your tissues and either burned for fuel or re-assembled into triglycerides for storage.
Lipoprotein Lipase. An enzyme of the hydrolase class that catalyzes the reaction of triacylglycerol and water to yield diacylglycerol and a fatty acid anion. The enzyme hydrolyzes triacylglycerols in chylomicrons, very-low-density lipoproteins, low-density lipoproteins, and diacylglycerols. Lipoprotein lipase. Lipoprotein lipase is a member of the lipase gene family, which includes pancreatic lipase, hepatic lipase, and endothelial lipase.
Lipoprotein lipase breaks down triglycerides carried by two different types of lipoproteins, which bring fat to the bloodstream from different organs. Fat from the intestine, which is taken in from the diet, is transported to the bloodstream by lipoproteins called chylomicrons. The official name of this gene is “lipoprotein lipase.”. LPL is the gene's official symbol. The LPL gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
Insulin and lipoprotein lipase work together in your body to use extra calories from carbohydrates in your diet to make and store fats. Insulin is a pancreatic hormone that is commonly known to regulate your blood sugar level, but it also regulates the production of fats from carbohydrates. Lipoprotein lipase breaks down the triglycerides in the lipoproteins to smaller fatty acids and monoglycerides that are transported into your tissues and either burned for fuel or re-assembled into triglycerides for storage.