Carbohydrates break down into glucose molecules. When used as energy, carbohydrates fuel become fuel for your muscles and brain. If your body does not have any use for the glucose, it is converted into glycogen and stored it in the liver and muscles as an energy reserve. Your body can store about a half a day's supply of glycogen. 
In the liver, glycogen can compose from 5 to 6% of its fresh weight (100–120 g in an adult). Only the glycogen stored in the liver can be made accessible to other organs. In the muscles, glycogen is found in a low concentration (1-2% of the muscle mass). The polysaccharide structure represents the main storage form of glucose in the body. In humans, glycogen is made and stored primarily in the cells of the liver and the muscles hydrated with three or four parts of water.
(3). 1. - Starch-storage form of glucose in plants 2. - Glycogen-short-term storage form of glucose in animals, muscle sugar • Muscles and liver where it is stored 3. - Cellulose of plant cells or Fiber-cell walls • Wood and dietary fiber are both mostly cellulose • Indigestible by most organisms. converted in the liver to: - glycogen = liver and muscles hold a limited amount, 4 to 6 hours worth-Fat = fat cells may also make fat from excess glucose unlimited potential!
Glycogen in muscle, liver, and fat cells is stored in a hydrated form, composed of three or four parts of water per part of glycogen associated with 0.45 millimoles of potassium per gram of glycogen. The polysaccharide structure represents the main storage form of glucose in the body. In humans, glycogen is made and stored primarily in the cells of the liver and the muscles hydrated with three or four parts of water.
Glycogen is the principal storage form of glucose in animal cells. In humans, the most glycogen is found in the liver (10% of the liver mass), whereas muscles only contain a relatively low amount of glycogen (1% of the muscle mass). In addition, small amounts of glycogen are found in certain glial cells in the brain. Glycogen is considered the principal storage form of glucose and is found mainly in liver and muscle, with kidney and intestines adding minor storage sites. With up to 10% of its weight as glycogen, the liver has the highest specific content of any body tissue.
glycogen. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a polysaccharide consisting of glucose units: the form in which carbohydrate is stored in the liver and muscles in man and animals. It can easily be hydrolysed to glucose. Also called: animal starch. 1. glycogen-one form in which body fuel is stored; stored primarily in the liver and broken down into glucose when needed by the body. animal starch. polyose, polysaccharide-any of a class of carbohydrates whose molecules contain chains of monosaccharide molecules. Translations. [ˈglaɪkəʊdʒen] N → glicogeno glicógeno. m
- Storage form of carbohydrate (glucose) in humans and other animals-Stored primarily in liver and muscles-similar in structure to starch but more branches-can break off a glucose easily with branches b/c enzymes start at the outside-undetectable in meats b/c glycogen breaks down as soon as animal is slaughtered. converted in the liver to: - glycogen = liver and muscles hold a limited amount, 4 to 6 hours worth-Fat = fat cells may also make fat from excess glucose unlimited potential!
Glycogen. a highly branched polysaccharide composed of glucose that is made and stored by LIVER and MUSCLE tissues of human beings and animals as a storage form of glucose. Glycogen is not a significant food source of carbohydrate and is not counted as one of the complex carbohydrates in foods. - body cells use as much glucose as they can for their energy needs of the moment-excess glucose is linked together and stored as glycogen until the muscles and liver are full to capacity with glycogen-if glucose keeps coming, body tissues shift to burning more glucose for energy instead of fat...