A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. Synaptic signals from other neurons are received by the soma and dendrites; signals to other neurons are transmitted by the axon. A typical synapse, then, is a contact between the axon of one neuron and a dendrite or soma of another. Synaptic signals may be excitatory or inhibitory.
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. Synaptic signals from other neurons are received by the soma and dendrites; signals to other neurons are transmitted by the axon. A typical synapse, then, is a contact between the axon of one neuron and a dendrite or soma of another. Synaptic signals may be excitatory or inhibitory.
It is composed of neurons, or nerve cells, which receive and transmit impulses, and neuroglia, also known as glial cells or more commonly as just glia (from the Greek, meaning glue), which assist the propagation of the nerve impulse as well as providing nutrients to the neuron. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia.
Neurons are the basic unit of nervous tissue. As we have previously discussed, structure and function are very much intertwined within biology and the structure of a neuron is uniquely suited to its function within nervous tissue. 1 The central cell body contains the neuron's nucleus, associated cytoplasm, and other organelles. 2  Nerve Processes. 3  Nerve processes are finger-like projections from the cell body that are able to conduct and transmit signals. 4  There are two types: 5  Axons-typically carry signals away from the cell body.
Nerve Tissue. Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. The word neuroglia means nerve glue.. These cells are nonconductive and provide a support system for the neurons. They are a special type of connective tissue for the nervous system. 
Neural tissue is specialized for the conduction of electrical impulses that convey information or instructions from one region of the body to another. About 98% of neural tissue is concentrated in the brain and spinal cord, which are the control centers for the nervous system. Neural tissue cell types. 1  Neurons transmit signals as electrical charges which affect their cell membranes. 2  A neuron has a cell body (soma) that contains a nucleus
Nervous Tissue: Neurons. 1  Cell Body. 2  The central cell body contains the neuron's nucleus, associated cytoplasm, and other organelles. 3  Nerve Processes. 4  Nerve processes are finger-like projections from the cell body that are able to conduct and transmit signals. 1 The central cell body contains the neuron's nucleus, associated cytoplasm, and other organelles. 2  Nerve Processes. 3  Nerve processes are finger-like projections from the cell body that are able to conduct and transmit signals. 4  There are two types: 5  Axons-typically carry signals away from the cell body.
Nervous tissue consists of two main types of cells: neurons and neuroglia. Nerve cells, or neurones (also written neurons). that move information around the body. Neuroglia are also known simply as glia and have various functions in support of nerve cells but. themselves. Astroglial cells, also known as astrocytes are found throughout the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : An astrocyte is a star-shaped cell that has many processes extending from its cell body into the surrounding network of nerve fibres.
Structure [edit]. Nervous tissue is composed of neurons, also called nerve cells, and neuroglial cells. Typically, nervous tissue is categorized into four types of tissue. In the central nervous system (CNS), the tissue types found are grey matter and white matter. In the peripheral nervous system (PNS), the tissue types are nerves and ganglia.