Centipedes are active hunters. They roam around looking for small animals to bite and eat. They eat insects, spiders, and other small invertebrates. If the centipede is large enough it will even attack small vertebrates like lizards. 1  Primary Diet. 2  carnivore. 3  eats terrestrial vertebrates. 4  eats non-insect arthropods. 
Generally, they prey on smaller insects such as small worms, moth larvae, small slugs, spiders... … and even other centipedes. However, some larger species of centipedes have been known to prey on small invertebrates and certain species of centipedes will even eat plants if they cannot find other source of food. Where there is no prey, they will con … sume certain types of plants that have some of their necessary proteins. They eat insects, spiders, and other small invertebrates. If the centipede is large enough it will even attack small vertebrates like lizards. + 201 others found this useful.
Centipedes are not likely to consume wood. In actuality, arthropods commonly known as wood eating centipedes are millipedes. While millipedes do closely resemble centipedes, millipedes are herbivores and detritivores, subsisting on dead and decaying plant material, including wood or cellulose material. Appearance. Centipedes belong to class of Chilopoda. The name centipede, which means “100 legs,” can be somewhat misleading: centipedes may have anywhere from 15 to 177 pairs of legs. Centipedes are elongated, with flat, segmented bodies that contain a pair of legs per segment.
Centipedes (from Latin prefix centi- , hundred, and pes, pedis, foot) are arthropods belonging to the class Chilopoda of the subphylum Myriapoda. They are elongated metameric creatures with one pair of legs per body segment. Despite the name, centipedes can have a varying number of legs, ranging from 30 to 354. Centipedes always have an odd number of pairs of legs. Therefore, there is no centipede with exactly 100 legs.
Centipedes are active hunters, and they look around for smaller insects or spiders to eat. Rarely, a centipede will attack a larger prey. Where there is no prey, they will con … sume certain types of plants that have some of their necessary proteins. They eat insects, spiders, and other small invertebrates. If the centipede is large enough it will even attack small vertebrates like lizards. + 201 others found this useful.
The back two legs of centipedes are longer than the others. These are used to lasso prey so the centipede can hold on until it can bite. Garden Centipedes eat insects, spiders, and other small animals. The venom they use will paralyze the prey so that it cannot move. Centipedes also have long antennae and are fast runners. Garden Centipedes live in woods, fields, and gardens. 
Most centipedes eat invertebrates such as worms, spiders, crickets, beetles, cockroaches, flies, grasshoppers, ants, potato bugs and even other centipedes. Some centipede species eat plants, especially decaying vegetation like fallen leaves and tree bark, if they can’t find anything better like insects. Categorized as Arthropods. Centipedes are long, narrow bugs famous for their many legs, ranging from as few as 32 to almost 400. Centipedes are carnivores that hunt by using their long antennae to find prey and then injecting it with a venom.
Confidence votes 2.5K. Centipedes are active hunters, and they look around for smaller insects or spiders to eat. Rarely, a centipede will attack a larger prey. Where there is no prey, they will consume certain types of plants that have some of their necessary proteins. They eat insects, spiders, and other small invertebrates