Tweet. This is part of an ongoing series of posts on my favorite Aussie slang. Be sure to check back for updates, or subscribe to my RSS feed to get updates to your reader automatically. If you use your imagination and context clues, you can probably figure out what “ budgie smugglers ” is referring to in Aussie slang. So, the budgie smugglers are called so because it supposedly looks like what it would if someone stuffed this small bird in their pants. I’m not sure how anyone ever decided that was a good phrase for it. Yes, Australia, you make no sense to me sometimes. Photo credit.
My impression is that budgie smugglers are a much more common form of beach-wear than in North America… much more common. And, if there were one particular Australian person that could be the icon for budgie smugglers, it would be Tony Abbott, the Leader of the Opposition. So, the budgie smugglers are called so because it supposedly looks like what it would if someone stuffed this small bird in their pants. I’m not sure how anyone ever decided that was a good phrase for it. Yes, Australia, you make no sense to me sometimes. Photo credit.
5. Budgie Smugglers. Australian slang term used to describe a tight-fitting, briefs style swimsuit that accents the genital region. The name most likely comes from the fact that it looks like you are smuggling budgies in the front of your swimsuit, due to your dong n' scrote. Australian slang term for men's tight-fitting Speedo-style swimwear. The 'lump in the front' apparently resembles a budgie when it is stuffed down the front of someone's shorts. Ah, those crazy Aussies!!
Noun [edit]. budgie smugglers. ( 1 Australia, New Zealand, informal, plural only) A style of tightfitting men's swimming costume cut like underwear briefs that covers the buttocks and groin but not the legs, especially worn in surf lifesaving and in swimming races. Roughly, the rule goes: if you have just swum, are planning to swim soon or are reasonably proximate to a place where others are swimming, then your budgie smugglers are perfectly acceptable. 2006 November 23, Stuart Rintoul, “Bracks's walk was on the wild side”, The Australian:
Budgie Smugglers. Budgie Smugglers are the pair of swimmers that demonstrate to the world, what being a real man is all about. According to urban dictionary, budgie smuggler is an Australian slang term for men’s tight fitting speedo-style swimwear. The ‘lump in the front’ apparently resembles a budgie (type of bird) when it is stuffed down the front of someone’s shorts. Ah, those crazy Aussies!
A swim brief or racing brief is any briefs-style male swimsuit such as those worn in competitive swimming and diving. The most common racing suit styles are 1.5 inch to 3 inch paneled briefs (as measured by the height and length of the suit's side panel). The racing suit's main function is to reduce the drag of an athlete in water, thus improving his time.
Swim briefs are also referred to as competition briefs, swimming trunks, bathers, racer bathers, posing briefs, racing briefs, and colloquially in Australia as budgie smugglers. Like underwear briefs, swim briefs feature a V-shape front and a solid back providing form-fitting coverage. The most common racing suit styles are 1.5 inch to 3 inch paneled briefs (as measured by the height and length of the suit's side panel). The racing suit's main function is to reduce the drag of an athlete in water, thus improving his time.
The sad fact is, we only realised the incorrect spelling after it was too late to change back again. So budgy smuggler should have been budgie smuggler. But you know what, however you spell it, you'll still look great in a pair of smugglers. All budgy smugglers are 100% Australian made in our factory in Sydney with the top quality Australian Made fabric. We understand when it comes to smuggling your budgy there can be no compromise on quality.