Cornus is a genus of about 30–60 species of woody plants in the family Cornaceae, commonly known as dogwoods, which can generally be distinguished by their blossoms, berries, and distinctive bark. In species such as this Cornus unalaschkensis, the tiny four-petaled flowers are clustered in a tightly packed, flattened cyme at the center of four showy white petal-like bracts.
Cornus florida inflorescence, showing four large white bracts and central flower cluster. Flowering dogwood is a small deciduous tree growing to 10 m (33 ft) high, often wider than it is tall when mature, with a trunk diameter of up to 30 cm (1 ft). A 10-year-old tree will stand about 5 m (16 ft) tall. Flowering dogwood does best horticulturally in moist, acidic soil in a site with some afternoon shade, but good morning sun. It does not do well when exposed to intense heat sources such as adjacent parking lots or air conditioning compressors.
The flowering dogwood (Cornus florida) and its inflorescence are the state tree and the state flower respectively for the U.S. Commonwealth of Virginia. It is also the state tree of Missouri and the state flower of North Carolina, and the State Memorial Tree of New Jersey. In species such as this Cornus unalaschkensis, the tiny four-petaled flowers are clustered in a tightly packed, flattened cyme at the center of four showy white petal-like bracts.
Dogwood. A dogwood is any of the 30-50 species of shrubs or trees that belong to the family Cornaceae. Dogwoods are deciduous, in the sense that they lose their flowers some time of the year
Flowering dogwood is a common name used for the species Cornus florida. While all dogwoods are flowering plants (angiosperms), they have other common names such as cornel, cornelian cherry, red osier, kousa dogwood, bloodtwig, redtwig and gray dogwood, among others. Genus Designation. Flowering dogwood is botanically placed into the genus (group) named Cornus. It is one of about 40 other deciduous shrubs and trees in the genus, all native to temperate regions in the northern hemisphere. Logically, flowering dogwood is a member of the dogwood family, Cornaceae.
The Dogwood blossom (Cornus florida L.) is the North Carolina State Flower. The other common names of Dogwood include American Dogwood and Flowering Dogwood. Dogwood is a native of North America and the south of northern New England, Minnesota, and Wyoming. Dogwood is one of the most popular ornamental trees appreciated for its beauty, and for its use as the background tree in landscaping.
The flowering dogwood is usually included in the dogwood genus Cornus as Cornus florida L., although it is sometimes treated in a separate genus as Benthamidia florida (L.) Spach. Flowering dogwood does best horticulturally in moist, acidic soil in a site with some afternoon shade, but good morning sun. It does not do well when exposed to intense heat sources such as adjacent parking lots or air conditioning compressors.
Dogwoods have simple, untoothed leaves with the veins curving distinctively as they approach the leaf margins. Most dogwood species have opposite leaves, while a few, such as Cornus alternifolia and C. controversa, have their leaves alternate. Dogwood flowers have four parts. In species such as this Cornus unalaschkensis, the tiny four-petaled flowers are clustered in a tightly packed, flattened cyme at the center of four showy white petal-like bracts.