Tendons are a type of soft tissue connecting muscle tissue to bone, similar to the ligaments that connect bone to bone. The function of tendons is to transfer force between mu … scle and bone. This facilitates the joint movement for everyday movements. 2 people found this useful. Johnellishartford. Ligaments: is a tough material that connects bones together at the joints. Cartilage: is a smooth tough material that protects the end of the bones. It protects the end of t … he bones. Tendons: is a rubber-like cords. it's function is it stretch as the muscles and the bones move.
Ligaments and tendons are soft collagenous tissues. Ligaments connect bone to bone and tendons connect muscles to bone. Ligaments and tendons play a significant role in musculoskeletal biomechanics. They represent an important area of orthopaedic treatment for which many challenges for repair remain. The fascicle contains the basic fibril of the ligament or tendon, and the fibroblasts, which are the biological cells that produce the ligament or tendon. There is a structural characteristic at this level that plays a significant role in the mechanics of ligaments and tendons: the crimp of the fibril.
Anatomy and Function of the Achilles Tendon. Anatomy and Function of the Achilles Tendon. The Achilles tendon is one of the most robust tendons in the body. Three relatively large and extremely strong muscles in the calf all attach to the back of heel bone (calcaneus) via the Achilles tendon. 
A tendon is a band of white tough fibrous connecting tissue that attaches a muscle to a bone. The tendon of the heart joins muscle of the heart which aids it in contraction to … the bone of the thorax called the sternum. + 1 other found this useful. Enwongo Ekanem. Ligaments: is a tough material that connects bones together at the joints. Cartilage: is a smooth tough material that protects the end of the bones. It protects the end of t … he bones. Tendons: is a rubber-like cords. it's function is it stretch as the muscles and the bones move.
Background. Tendons are a type of soft tissue that connects muscle tissue to bone, similar to the ligaments that connect bone to bone. They can be found throughout the body from the legs to the hands. They are composed almost entirely of collagen, a fibrous protein, and are often referred to as a collagenous tissue. 
The function of a tendon is a type of soft tissue that connects muscle tissue to bones just like ligaments that connect two or more bones. The purpose of tendons is to transfe … r force between muscle and bone.This allows the joint movement that allows for everyday activities like walking or reaching. 
A tendon (or sinew) is a tough band of fibrous connective tissue that usually connects muscle to bone and is capable of withstanding tension. Tendons are similar to ligaments and fasciae; all three are made of collagen. Ligaments join one bone to another bone; fasciae connect muscles to other muscles. 
Calcaneal tendon. The calcaneal tendon, also known as the tendon of Achilles, is a posterior leg tendon — a fibrous connective tissue that joins muscles in the back of the leg. It is formed when the soleus muscle tendon joins with the gastrocnemius tendon. 
The main function of tendons is to enable free and flexible movement in the body. Running, jumping, walking, lifting, dancing and other similar physical activities are made possible by tendons. The length of tendons is usually decided by the genetics and the muscle size is dictated by the tendons. Tendons are the main connective tissues which hold the whole skeletal frame together. In tandem with muscles and ligaments tendons help in the mechanics of movement and provide form and function to our body.