This prickly pear has beautiful pink flowers when in bloom. The boatical name is Opuntia basilaris. Native to the Mojave desert this plant can take extreme heat, cold and limited precipitation. The growth habit is low a compact. Mature plants will be 18 tall by 3'-4' in diameter. We are offering pads for sale. 
One adaptation of the prickly pear cactus [ Opuntia spp ] is its closeness to the ground. This proximity means that little moisture is loss on the way from the plant's water channeling spines, to the ground, and into the cactus' roots. The pads and fruit of the prickly pear cactus are edible. The fruit can be peeled and eaten raw. However, many experts suggest that the fruit is best when it is made into cand … y, jelly, juice, or wine. It is also available dried or in extract form.
The Beavertail Cactus is a medium-sized to small prickly pear cactus, depending on variety, growing to about 60 cm tall. A single plant may consist of hundreds of fleshy, flattened pads. These are more or less blue-gray, depending on variety, growing to a length of 14 cm and are maximum 10 cm wide and 1 to 1.5 cm thick. Some experts consider the Trelease's beavertail to be a full species (Bowen 1987, R. van de Hoek). It is unique among the varieties of Opuntia basilaris in that the areoles contain spines in addition to the bristles; this indicates that the species does vary a lot in its exterior.
For example, the pads of the prickly pear cactus are used to store water for when they need it during a drought. In some places these adaptive significances help well. In some places these adaptive significances help well. The pancake prickly pear cactus thrives as both a wild and domesticated plant. Pancake Prickly Pear Cactus Genus: Opuntia Species: chlorotica. The prickly pear cactus is a widely used and versatile cactus. It can be used in many different ways such as foods, crops, etc.. In many places the prickly pear is grown as a crop, but in others they are just grown in the wild.
One way that the prickly pear Cactus does this is it stores water in its pads to use when there is a drought. Another way it conserves water is that it has modified its leaves into spines. These structures also serve as protection. Doing this however causes water to evaporate through the stoma. Since the habitat for the prickly pear cactus is not plentiful of water, it is important that water is conserved. This is done by opening to stomata at night when the air is cooler and less water will evaporate.
Adaptations. The Prickly Pear Cactus has acquired many adaptations to survive in the environment that it does. Because it is a low growing, brightly colored plant, it has sharp spines on its pads to protect it from predation. This particular plant is a perennial plant. The Prickly Pear Cactus has acquired many adaptations to survive in the environment that it doe
The habitat for the prickly pear cactus is very harsh. This lead to many different adaptations in the plant. Some of these include different methods of water storage, photosynthesis, and alternative means of reproduction. Doing this however causes water to evaporate through the stoma. Since the habitat for the prickly pear cactus is not plentiful of water, it is important that water is conserved. This is done by opening to stomata at night when the air is cooler and less water will evaporate.
Cactus in the Mojave Desert Beavertail Cactus Opuntia basilaris Flat green to purplish heart-shaped pads, spineless but with numerous bristles (glochids). Two to three inch wide magenta flowers cluster at top of pads in March through June. Pads appear wrinkled in drought conditions. Grand Canyon Plants Some of the common catus species found in the park are the California barrel, fishhook, beavertail, desert prickly pear, claretcup hedgehog, Englemann ... Plants in Zion Utah beavertail-Opuntia basilaris aurea. Dollarjoint cactus-Opuntia chlorotica.