Removing a tick from your cat is a traumatic experience for any cat owner. The best way to treat ticks, therefore, is to prevent them from attaching in the first place. Keep in mind that indoor cats almost never get ticks, unless they're carried in by other pets, pests or people.
Tick Collars. Tick collars are a useful preventive, though often only for protecting the cat's neck and head from ticks. Cut off any excess length of collar to prevent your cat from chewing on it, and watch for signs of discomfort (e.g., excessive scratching) in case an allergic reaction occurs.
Ticks are tiny arachnids, or eight-legged, spineless creatures, that attach to the skin of mammals such as dogs, deer, rodents and cats, and feed on their host's blood. While feeding on infected animals, ticks become carriers of various diseases, and can infect the next animal they bite -- which could be your cat.
Tips. 1  The best way to remove a tick that has attached to your cat is to use a pair of tweezers or special tick-removal appliance and pull the tick out. 2  If you find 1 or more ticks on your cat and are concerned about disease transmission, save the tick and show it to your veterinarian.
Tick Collars. Collars that repel ticks are an additional preventive you can use, though they are mainly only useful for protecting the neck and head from ticks. The collar needs to make contact with your cat’s skin in order to transfer the chemicals onto the cat’s fur and skin.
1 The best way to remove a tick that has attached to your cat is to use a pair of tweezers or special tick-removal appliance and pull the tick out. 2  Be careful to not touch the tick to avoid contact with any diseases.
Dogs are very susceptible to tick bites and tickborne diseases. Vaccines are not available for all the tickborne diseases that dogs can get, and they don’t keep the dogs from bringing ticks into your home. For these reasons, it’s important to use a tick preventive product on your dog.
Use tick collars to help prevent ticks from attaching to your cat and help detach those already on your cat; change the collars every few months.
The safest way to remove a tick is to use tweezers in order to grab the tick at the skin line, as close to the bug's head as you can. Pull gently and straight out. Remember that ticks are resilient; once it's out, you have to kill it. Try putting it in a jar with alcohol and closing the jar.