Genome instability (also “genetic instability” or “genomic instability”) refers to a high frequency of mutations within the genome of a cellular lineage. Genome instability is central to carcinogenesis but also is a factor in some neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or the neuromuscular disease myotonic dystrophy. The sources of genome instability have only recently begun to be elucidated.
Abstract. DNA damage-driven genome instability underlies the diversity of life forms generated by the evolutionary process but is detrimental to the somatic cells of individual organisms. The cellular response to DNA damage can be roughly divided in two parts. While as yet unclear if increased genome instability is the cause of the increased cell-to-cell variation in gene expression at old age, the role of chance events in aging is increasingly appreciated [30] and increased noise in gene expression has been implicated in reduced organismal fitness [31] .
These mutations can include changes in nucleic acid sequences, chromosomal rearrangements or aneuploidy. Genome instability is central to carcinogenesis but also is a factor in some neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or the neuromuscular disease myotonic dystrophy. The sources of genome instability have only recently begun to be elucidated. A high frequency of externally caused DNA damage can be one source of genome instability since DNA damages can cause inaccurate translesion synthesis past the damages or errors in repair, leading to mutation
Identifying the causes of genome instability is crucial to understanding genome dynamics during cell proliferation and its role in cancer, aging, and a number of rare genetic diseases. Such events are primarily associated with defects in DNA replication and the DNA damage response, and show high incidence at repetitive DNA, non-B DNA structures, DNA-protein barriers, and highly transcribed regions.
It is a major driving force for tumorigenesis. During a cell division, genomic instability is minimized by four major mechanisms: high-fidelity DNA replication in S-phase, precise chromosome segregation in mitosis, error free repair of sporadic DNA damage, and a coordinated cell cycle progression. 
Abstract. Genome instability is a fundamentally important component of aging in all eukaryotes. How age-related genome instability occurs remains unclear. The free radical theory of aging posits oxidative damage to DNA and other cellular constituents as a primary determinant of aging. The unique structure of replicating DNA contributes to genome instability at replication forks, which is enhanced by replication fork stalling. (A) When non-replicating DNA molecules suffer single-strand lesions, the integrity of these molecules is maintained ...
A role for replication stress-related genome instability in the age-dependent decline of stem cells and their proliferating progeny is consistent with the recent detection of age-dependent chromosome instability specifically in proliferating cells in various tissues of mice, including brain and intestines (50). The unique structure of replicating DNA contributes to genome instability at replication forks, which is enhanced by replication fork stalling. (A) When non-replicating DNA molecules suffer single-strand lesions, the integrity of these molecules is maintained ...
It is a major driving force for tumorigenesis. During a cell division, genomic instability is minimized by four major mechanisms: high-fidelity DNA replication in S-phase, precise chromosome segregation in mitosis, error free repair of sporadic DNA damage, and a coordinated cell cycle progression. Genomic instability is defined as a process prone to genomic changes or an increased propensity for genomic alterations. During cell division, genomic instability is associated with the failure of parental cells to accurately duplicate the genome and precisely distribute the genomic material among the daughter cells.
DNA damage-driven genome instability underlies the diversity of life forms generated by the evolutionary process but is detrimental to the somatic cells of individual organisms. While as yet unclear if increased genome instability is the cause of the increased cell-to-cell variation in gene expression at old age, the role of chance events in aging is increasingly appreciated [30] and increased noise in gene expression has been implicated in reduced organismal fitness [31] .
Genomic instability in the form of mutations and chromosome rearrangements is usually associated with pathological disorders, and yet it is also crucial for evolution. a | Detection of genome instability (GIN) caused by replicative stress using a colour-sectoring assay. GIN is revealed by hyper-recombination between direct repeats in Saccharomyces cerevisiae that are carrying two copies of a long DNA fragment flanking an ADE2 marker between them.