Simile Definition. A simile is a figure of speech that makes a comparison, showing similarities between two different things. Unlike a metaphor, a simile draws resemblance with the help of the words “like” or “as”. Therefore, it is a direct comparison. We can find simile examples in our daily speech.
a simile is a comparison between two things using like or as. a metaphor is a comparison between two things with the intent to give one a meaning. metaphor is something being compared not using like or as and simile is something being compared using like or as. Similes use like/as and are direct comparisons: He is as … strong as an ox. Metaphors are more implied comparisons and don't use like/as. He thundered around the house.
A simile is a figure of speech that compares two unlike things,for example, her cheeks are like roses or his heart is hard as stone.A simile is a figure of speech involvin … g the comparison of one thing with another of a different kind, as an illustration or an ornament e.g. brave as a lion. A simile is a figure of speech that indirectly compares two different things by employing the words like, as, or than.
A metaphor is a figure of speech that identifies something as being the same as some unrelated thing for rhetorical effect, thus highlighting the similarities between the two. While a simile compares two items, a metaphor directly equates them, and does not use like or as as does a simile. 
simile: * A 'simile' is a figure of speech that directly compares two things through the explicit use of connecting words (like or as). 1  1 Uses. simile: * A 'simile' is a figure of speech that directly compares two things through the explicit use of connecting words (like or as). Contents.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A simile is when you compare something using the words like or as ----- He is a mean AS a snake He jumped LIKE a rabbit. A metaphor is comparing, but you don't use like or as. ------ That man is a snake. All men are dogs
Simile. A simile is a figure of speech that directly compares two things through some connective, usually like, as, than, or a verb such as resembles.. A simile differs from a metaphor in that the latter compares two unlike things by saying that the one thing is the other thing.
Simile-comparing two unlike things using like or as Metaphor-comparing two unlike thing without using like or as Examples of similes:AS strong AS a bull,easy AS pie,sweet LIKE … honey Examples of metaphors:My world is an empty place,And she is buying the stairway to heaven,If i cant see you my world is an empty place. metaphor is something being compared not using like or as and simile is something being compared using like or as. Similes use like/as and are direct comparisons: He is as … strong as an ox. Metaphors are more implied comparisons and don't use like/as. He thundered around the house.
A simile is where you compare to things using the words 'Like' or 'as' A metaphor is comparing two things not using like or as Ex: My teddy is like a dog soft and cuddly Ex: … Kevin is my alarm clock. 6 people found this useful. metaphor is something being compared not using like or as and simile is something being compared using like or as. Similes use like/as and are direct comparisons: He is as … strong as an ox. Metaphors are more implied comparisons and don't use like/as. He thundered around the house.