Thoracentesis. Guide. Thoracentesis is a procedure to remove fluid from the space between the lungs and the chest wall called the pleural space. It is done with a needle (and sometimes a plastic catheter) inserted through the chest wall. Ultrasound pictures are often used to guide the placement of the needle. Normally only a small amount of pleural fluid is present in the pleural space. A buildup of excess pleural fluid (pleural effusion) may be caused by many conditions, such as infection, inflammation, heart failure, or cancer. If a large amount of fluid is present, it may be hard to breathe.
Thoracentesis (THOR-ah-sen-TE-sis) is a procedure to remove excess fluid in the space between the lungs and the chest wall. This space is called the pleural space. Doctors use thoracentesis to find the cause of a pleural effusion. The procedure also might be done to help you breathe easier. During the procedure, your doctor inserts a thin needle or plastic tube into
Thoracentesis is also known as pleural fluid analysis. Thoracentesis is a procedure in which a needle is inserted through the back of the chest wall into the pleural space (a space that exists between the two lungs and the interior chest wall) to remove fluid or air.
Thoracentesis is a procedure to drain excess fluid from the pleura, the space that surrounds the lungs. With thoracentesis, a needle or tube is inserted through the chest wall into the space around the lungs (pleural space), often with ultrasound guidance. The excess fluid is then drained
Instruments for thoracocentesis and needle biopsy of the pleura. Thoracentesis /ˌθɔrəsɨnˈtiːsɨs/ , (from Greek, thorax + centesis, puncture) also known as thoracocentesis or pleural tap, is an invasive procedure to remove fluid or air from the pleural space for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. 
Thoracentesis is a procedure in which a needle is inserted through the back of the chest wall into the pleural space (a space that exists between the two lungs and the interior chest wall) to remove fluid or air. 
Thoracentesis is a procedure done when there is too much fluid in the pleural space, making it hard to breathe. The primary goal is to drain the fluid and make it easier for you to breathe again. In some cases, the procedure will also help your doctor discover the cause of the pleural effusion. Between the lungs and the chest wall there is a small space called the “pleural space.” This space typically contains approximately four teaspoons of fluid. Certain conditions, including tumors, pneumonia, heart failure, or lung illnesses, can cause more fluid to enter the space. This is called
A pleural effusion is the buildup of excess fluid in the pleural space (the space between the lungs and chest wall). Doctors use thoracentesis to find the cause of a pleural effusion. The procedure also might be done to remove excess fluid from the pleural space and help you breathe easier. The most common cause of a pleural effusion is heart failure. This is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to the body. 