About 8% of workers in the USA commute an hour or longer; 4.3% have it much easier because they work from home. A quick look at the highs and lows of commuting: Source: Census Bureau's American Community Survey estimates, 2011 data. The average travel time for workers who commute by public transportation is higher than that of workers who use other modes, said Census Bureau statistician Brian McKenzie. For some workers, using transit is a necessity, but others simply choose a longer travel time over sitting in traffic..
Americans' commutes aren't getting longer. The national average, one-way daily commute is 25.5 minutes, and 4.3% of the nation's workers work from home. The average travel time for workers who commute by public transportation is higher than that of workers who use other modes, said Census Bureau statistician Brian McKenzie. For some workers, using transit is a necessity, but others simply choose a longer travel time over sitting in traffic..
The average daily commute is about 25 minutes. By Heather Huhman. + More. Heather R. Huhman With the average daily U.S. commute at about 25 minutes, many workers are spending at least an hour traveling each day to and from work. For some densely populated cities, such as Chicago or New York, this average is 30 to 35 minutes, sometimes more. Heather R. Huhman.
But the number spending a total of three hours or more travelling has risen to 1.84million-or nine per cent of the workforce. According to the results, accountants have the longest average daily commute – 75.6 minutes – followed by IT workers at 65.6 minutes. The number of Britons spending at least three hours a day on their work commute has risen by 50 per cent. The average total daily commuting distance has dropped from 18.5 miles in 2008 to 16.7 miles-a fall of 10 per cent-as people live slightly closer to their workplaces.
* = Less than 0.5%. According to the survey, American workers say they spend an average of 45.6 minutes commuting to and from work in a typical day. (This includes workers who report zero minutes commuting; excluding these workers yields an average commute time of 48.1 minutes). PRINCETON, NJ -- Gallup's annual Work and Education survey finds that American workers report spending an average of 4
As an example of how much conditions vary, average commute times range from 19 minutes for people who work in towns to 34 minutes for people who work in big cities. And where people say the traffic is OK, it's 24 minutes; where poor, it's 32. Views of traffic conditions over time have been unstable. Life for commuters can be heaven or hell. They report an average one-way commute time of 26 minutes (over an average distance of 16 miles). But the variance is huge: On the best days, the average commute is 19 minutes; on the worst days, 46 minutes. That means traffic, at its worst, can double the average commute time, adding 27 minutes each way
About 8% of workers in the USA have commutes of an hour or longer, and nearly 600,000 full-time workers endure megacommutes of at least an hour-and-a-half and 50 miles, according to new U.S. Census data on commuting. The average travel time for workers who commute by public transportation is higher than that of workers who use other modes, said Census Bureau statistician Brian McKenzie. For some workers, using transit is a necessity, but others simply choose a longer travel time over sitting in traffic..
Average Commute Times. The average travel time to work in the United States is 25.4 minutes, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. Move around the map or enter your town or zip code to find commute times for your area. 
For back in 2008, the average British commute took a total of 42 minutes each day. The average total daily commuting distance has dropped from 18.5 miles in 2008 to 16.7 miles-a fall of 10 per cent-as people live slightly closer to their workplaces.