Dichroic is defined in the dictionary as “The property of a surface of reflecting light of one color and transmitting light of other colors.” Transmitted colors are what you see when you would look through a piece of DichroMagic glass. I had finally found what I was meant to do! Each piece of glass is a different creation of dichroic and art glass, fused, then shaped into a unique piece of Art Jewelry. In addition I make book marks, rings, and braclets.
One color is reflected and one is transmitted. However, each piece of this specialty glass has many secondary colors. As the piece of art glass is turned, the light will begin to bring out a rainbow of colors. Because of its beauty, it is very popular in fused glass projects and in jewelry making. In order to truly give the meaning of dichroic in today's world, we know that it means far more than just two colors. It includes the unique process of depositing the metallic coating on thin sheets of glass. In order to explain that process, it helps to know some of the history
For over a decade there has been a growing interest in dichroic glass. What is it, how is it made and where did it come from? If you are new to dichroic glass, you are in for a real treat as you discover the fire and multicolored brilliance of dichroic glass that has been artistically transformed into wearable art. Dichroic glass is not reflective because of special glass or textures. Instead, it is a special coating treatment that is done to the glass. This beautiful glass represents an adaptation of aerospace technology to the world of art.
For over a decade there has been a growing interest in dichroic glass. What is it, how is it made and where did it come from? If you are new to dichroic glass, you are in for a real treat as you discover the fire and multicolored brilliance of dichroic glass that has been artistically transformed into wearable art. With so many combinations of oxides, glass colors and patterns available to make dichroic glass, the possibilities are endless for incredibly rich and varied colors and patterns. These amazing dichroic design elements add flash and pizzazz, sparkle and intrigue to jewelry, creating a sense of luxury and artistic class.
There are people who date dichroic glass to the years before Christ. That depends on what you think dichroic means. We have had beautiful fused and blown glass for many centuries. However the technique that gives us the dichroic glass of today is very complex and has only been used in the past few decades. As the piece of art glass is turned, the light will begin to bring out a rainbow of colors. Because of its beauty, it is very popular in fused glass projects and in jewelry making. In order to truly give the meaning of dichroic in today's world, we know that it means far more than just two colors.
Dichroic coatings are produced by vacuum depositing multiple thin layers of exotic materials onto a glass substrate. This creates an optical filter that can selectively reflect and transmit wavelengths of light. A vacuum chamber is needed in order to produce a pure environment for depositing the thin film materials. I had finally found what I was meant to do! Each piece of glass is a different creation of dichroic and art glass, fused, then shaped into a unique piece of Art Jewelry. In addition I make book marks, rings, and braclets.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Dichroic glass, also called fusion glass, is glass treated with various metal oxides to make it appear to have many colors. Developed for use in the American space program, dichroic glass is now popular as a jewelry and art material. The name comes from a Greek word meaning “two colors.”. 
19 sheet of rainbow marquis patterned dichroic glass Production Process Dichroic glass is manufactured in an ultra-clean environment, making it one of the most expensive glasses made today. The process involves depositing many very thin layers of rare metal oxides (magnesium, silicon, titanium) on the surface of a piece of glass. 
The second and more recent type of dichroic glass uses a vacuum deposition process to add layers of various metallic oxides on top of the glass. This is what most people think of as dichroic glass and the focus of our explanation since it is precisely this type of dichro used in Trezora's jewelry and art glass. A truly amazing example of this type of dichroic glass is the Lycurgus Cup. The Lycurgus Cup was created in the 4th century AD in Italy. In reflected light the glass appears green. In transmitted light the glass appears red.
Another misconception is that dichroic glass is the same as fused glass or refers to the entire fused glass movement. Though fused glass or warm glass may incorporate dichroic glass elements; doing so is not a requirement. Dichroic glass can be used as an element in glass blowing, bead making and of course glass fusing. A truly amazing example of this type of dichroic glass is the Lycurgus Cup. The Lycurgus Cup was created in the 4th century AD in Italy. In reflected light the glass appears green. In transmitted light the glass appears red.