Vasculitis can affect the small-or medium-sized vessels of the skin. Vasculitis affecting the small vessels of the skin (eg, arterioles, capillaries, postcapillary venules) tends to cause lesions such as purpura, petechiae, and possibly shallow ulcers. Patients may present with skin symptoms such as lesions, including palpable purpura, petechiae, urticaria, ulcers, livedo reticularis, and nodules. If skin involvement is secondary to a systemic vasculitis, symptoms may also include fever, arthralgias, other organ involvement, or a combination.
A vasculitis rash may appear on the ankles. Vasculitis is an inflammation of the blood vessels near the skin. A doctor can usually diagnose a vasculitis rash based on appearance alone. A vasculitis rash may occur anywhere on the body. A bacterial infection may cause a vasculitis rash to develop. 
1 Signs and symptoms include mouth and genital ulcers, eye inflammation, and acne-like lesions on your skin. 2  Buerger's disease. 3  This condition causes inflammation and clots in the blood vessels of your hands and feet. 4  It can cause pain in your hands, arms, feet and legs, and ulcers on your fingers and toes. 1 This form of vasculitis usually affects the kidneys, the digestive tract, the nerves and the skin. 2  It is often associated with hepatitis B infections. 3  Signs and symptoms include a rash, muscle and joint pain, abdominal pain, high blood pressure, and kidney problems. 4  Takayasu's (tah-kah-YAH-sooz) arteritis.
1 Henoch-Schonlein purpura. 2  This condition is an inflammation of the smallest blood vessels (capillaries) of your skin, joints, bowel and kidneys. 3  Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain, blood in the urine, joint pain, and a rash on your buttocks or lower legs. 1 This form of vasculitis usually affects the kidneys, the digestive tract, the nerves and the skin. 2  It is often associated with hepatitis B infections. 3  Signs and symptoms include a rash, muscle and joint pain, abdominal pain, high blood pressure, and kidney problems. 4  Takayasu's (tah-kah-YAH-sooz) arteritis.
Vasculitis is an inflammation of the blood vessels. Inflammation is a condition in which tissue is damaged by blood cells entering the tissues. In inflammatory diseases, these cells are mostly white blood cells. 1 Antibodies that react against cells in vessel walls. 2  In some cases of vasculitis, an antibody against the cytoplasm of neutrophils (anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibodies, or ANCA) is the probable cause of the inflammation and damage.
Cutaneous vasculitis lesions occur when inflammation damages the blood vessels in the skin. The lesions typically appear as small, red-purple spots and bumps on the lower legs; occasionally, larger knots (nodules) and ulcers can develop. Approximately two-thirds of people with lupus will develop some type of skin disease, called cutaneous lupus erythematosus. Skin disease in lupus can cause rashes or sores (lesions), most of which will appear on sun-exposed areas such as the face, ears, neck, arms, and legs.
Some people with lupus may develop a condition known as cutaneous vasculitis, in which the blood vessels near the skin experience inflammation that ultimately restricts blood flow. This condition can cause hive-like lesions on the skin that may itch and do not turn white when depressed. 
Vasculitis, which may also be referred to as angiitis and arteritis refers to a large group of diseases involving inflammation of the blood vessels, specifically the walls of the blood vessels-including arteries, veins and capillaries (tiny veins). The plural of vasculitis is vasculitides. 1 Wegener's Granulomatosis-a type of inflammation and injury to blood vessels that affects several organs, including the lungs, kidneys and upper respiratory tract. 2  It is a life-threatening disorder that requires long-term immunosuppression. 3  Some patients die due to toxicity of treatment.
Common vasculitis skin lesions are: 1  red or purple dots (petechiae), usually most numerous on the legs. 2  larger spots, about the size of the end of a finger (purpura), some of which look like large bruises. 3  Less common vasculitis lesions are hives, an itchy lumpy rash and painful or tender lumps. 1 Antibodies that react against cells in vessel walls. 2  In some cases of vasculitis, an antibody against the cytoplasm of neutrophils (anti-neutrophil cytoplasm antibodies, or ANCA) is the probable cause of the inflammation and damage.
1 Signs and symptoms include abdominal pain, blood in the urine, joint pain, and a rash on your buttocks or lower legs. 2  Henoch-Schonlein usually affects children, but it can occur at any age. 3  Hypersensitivity vasculitis. 4  The primary sign of this condition is red spots on your skin, usually on your lower legs. 1 This form of vasculitis usually affects the kidneys, the digestive tract, the nerves and the skin. 2  It is often associated with hepatitis B infections. 3  Signs and symptoms include a rash, muscle and joint pain, abdominal pain, high blood pressure, and kidney problems. 4  Takayasu's (tah-kah-YAH-sooz) arteritis.