For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature.
Resting Rate. Your resting heart rate is your heart rate while at rest or sitting still. According to the American Heart Association, the best time to check your resting pulse rate is right before you get out of bed in the morning. The normal rate for an adult male is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. For an endurance athlete, the resting heart rate will typically be lower, indicating a more efficient heart function.
For example if on day one you record 72 bpm (beats per minute) day two you record 78 bpm and on day three you record 72 bpm, then your average is 74 bpm. Look at recording your resting heart rate for a full minute to make the test as accurate as possible. Your resting heart rate is often a good determination as to how fit you are, as well as indicating if you're either over training or unwell-showing up as unexplained increases in resting heart rate.
Men: The average resting pulse rate for men is around 70 beats per minute. If the pulse rate is in 60's, well, then the heart is in a good shape. If an individual has a resting pulse rate of 50, it is perfect. If at all it is way above 70, it indicates that the heart is not in a good shape. 
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
Your Heart Rate Over Time. As you grow older, your normal resting heart rate changes. For children 10 years and younger, and most adults, normal heart rate is 60 to 80 beats per minute (BPM) . Well-trained athletes can have a normal heart rate of 40 to 60 BPM.
Save. Your pulse rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute. And while pulse rates vary from person to person, they are influenced by factors such as age and fitness level. There is also a slight difference in rates by gender, as men tend to have a slightly lower resting and maximum heart rate than women. The normal rate for an adult male is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. For an endurance athlete, the resting heart rate will typically be lower, indicating a more efficient heart function.
A normal resting heart rate can range anywhere from 40 to 100 beats per minute. Below is a chart relating resting heart rate and fitness level. As can be seen on this chart, your resting heart rate can vary with your fitness level and with age — the fitter you are, generally the lower the resting heart rate. 1 My resting heart rate is 66 BPM that's after lying on a bed for 10 mins. 2  I go gym and also do Krav Maga contact combat during which time my heart rate on max goes up to 359 BPM, when my heart rate is at this pace I see things in slow motion, with clarity.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you.