When to Test for Rheumatoid Arthritis. The rheumatoid factor test is used to diagnose rheumatoid arthritis or Sjogren's Syndrome, and help distinguish those conditions from other forms of arthritis or other conditions that mimic or have very similar symptomatology to rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid Factor is Made of Antibodies. If you see your primary care doctor, he or she may elect to do a blood test where they test for antibodies that are called rheumatoid factor. When rheumatoid factor is present in your bloodstream, it's a good indicator that you may be suffering from
Rheumatoid Factor (RF). Guide. A rheumatoid factor (RF) blood test measures the amount of the RF antibody present in the blood. Normally, antibodies are produced by the immune system to help destroy and eliminate invading bacteria and viruses that can cause disease. But the RF antibody can attach to normal body tissue, resulting in damage. 
Interpretation. Rheumatoid factor (RF) is used in the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RF results are positive in approximately 75% of patients with RA, although RF is not etiologically related to RA. High RF titers indicate a poorer prognosis, as patients with higher RF levels tend to have more severe disease. 
Rheumatoid factor is an antibody that is measurable in the blood. Rheumatoid factor is actually an antibody that can bind to other antibodies. Antibodies are normal proteins in our blood that are important parts of our immune system. Rheumatoid factor is an antibody that is not usually present in the normal individual. Rheumatoid factor (RF) facts. 1  Rheumatoid factor is an antibody that is detectable in the blood of approximately 80% of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Sometimes rheumatoid factor can be detected in the blood of normal individuals and of those with other autoimmune diseases that are not rheumatoid arthritis
Test Overview. A rheumatoid factor (RF) blood test measures the amount of the RF antibody present in the blood. Normally, antibodies are produced by the immune system to help destroy and eliminate invading bacteria and viruses that can cause disease. But the RF antibody can attach to normal body tissue, resulting in damage. A rheumatoid factor (RF) blood test measures the amount of the RF antibody present in the blood. The results of the rheumatoid factor (RF) test may be reported in titers or units: 1  A titer is a measure of how much the blood sample can be diluted before RF can no longer be detected.
Most commonly, rheumatoid factor is used as a blood test for the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid factor is present in about 80% of adults (but a much lower proportion of children) with rheumatoid arthritis. Rheumatoid factor (RF) facts. 1  Rheumatoid factor is an antibody that is detectable in the blood of approximately 80% of adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Sometimes rheumatoid factor can be detected in the blood of normal individuals and of those with other autoimmune diseases that are not
RF and IgG join to form immune complexes that contribute to the disease process. Rheumatoid factor can also be a cryoglobulin (antibody that precipitates on cooling of a blood sample); it can be either type 2 (monoclonal IgM to polyclonal IgG) or type 3 (polyclonal IgM to polyclonal IgG) cryoglobulin. 