Human body cavities: Ventral body cavity is to the right. The ventral body cavity is a human body cavity that is in the anterior (front) aspect of the human body. It is made up of the thoracic cavity, and the abdominopelvic cavity. The abdominopelvic cavity is further divided into the abdominal cavity and pelvic cavity, but there is no physical barrier between the two. The thoracic cavity is separated from the abdominopelvic cavity by the diaphragm. The thoracic cavity is further separated into the pleural cavity which contains the lungs and the superior mediastinum which includes the pericardial (heart) cavity. The organs within the ventral body cavity are called the viscera.
The ventral body cavity is a hollow space at the front part of the human body. It houses viscera, which are bodily organs. The ventral body cavity is opposed by the dorsal body cavity, which is at the back of the body. The ventral and dorsal body cavities are the two main cavities of the human body. Two body cavities join together to form the ventral body cavity. They are the thoracic cavity, which is in the chest region, and the abdominopelvic cavity, which is in the abdominal and pelvic regions. The upper abdominal part of the ventral body cavity, or the abdominal cavity, is enclosed by the lower part of the ribcage. The stomach, intestines, liver, pancreas, gallbladder and kidneys are in the abdominal cavity, as are the ureters, which are tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder.
The Dorsal Cavity contains the Cranial Cavity (brain) and the Spinal Cavity (spinal cord). It's basically your back (think dorsal fin of a fish). The Ventral Cavity contains the Thoracic Cavity and the Abdominal-pelvic Cavity. Think ventral = front. It contains all the structures within the chest and abdomen. Like the dorsal cavity, the ventral body cavity is subdivided. The superior thoracic cavity is separated from the rest of the ventral cavity by a dome-shaped muscle, the diaphragm. The organs in the thoracic cavity (lungs, heart, etc.) are somewhat protected by the rib cage. The cavity inferior to the diaphragm is the abdominopelvic cavity
The ventral cavity is the area of the body from the top of the rib  cage to the top of the leg. The organs that are found in this area  are, reproductive organs, digestive o … rgans, bladder, rectum, and  the pelvic area. Answered. In Biology. a) thoracic cavity-housed by the ribcage. b) abdominopelvic cavity-located on the abdomen and pelvis, as the name implies. The diaphragm is the muscle organ that separates the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavity. The organs on each sub-cavity are as follows:
Cranial cavity: enclosed by the skull and contains the brain, eyes, and ears. Spinal canal: enclosed by the spine and contains the spinal cord. Ventral body cavity contains the thoracic cavity (contains the lungs and heart) and the abdominopelvic cavity (contains abdomen and pelvic cavity). Abdominal cavity: enclosed by the ribcage and pelvis and contains the kidneys, ureters, stomach, intestines, liver, gallbladder, and pancrea
Ventral Body cavity. Like the dorsal cavity, the ventral cavity has two subdivisions. The superior division is called the thoracic cavity. The thoracic cavity is surrounded by the ribs and muscles in the chest. It’s further su divided into lateral pleural cavities (each pleural cavity envelopes a lung) and the mediastinum. The walls of the ventral body cavity and outer covering of its organs contain a thin covering called the serosa (also called serous membrane). It is a double-layered membrane made up of two parts called the “ parietal serosa ” (lines the cavity walls) and “ visceral serosa ” (covers organs in the cavity).
It is subdivided into 2 cavities: a) thoracic cavity-housed by the ribcage. b) abdominopelvic cavity-located on the abdomen and pelvis, as the name implies. The diaphragm is the muscle organ that separates the thoracic and abdominopelvic cavity. The organs on each sub-cavity are as follows:
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The ventral cavity is the area of the body from the top of the rib cage to the top of the leg. The organs that are found in this area are, reproductive organs, digestive organs, bladder, rectum, and the pelvic area. 