A 1 MW solar farm would cost in the 4-5 million range. 
A solar farm gets 2.5 cents per kWh for their first ten years of operation. Given that the farm might operate for more than 40 years the subsidy is in the neighborhood of a half penny per kWh. The external costs for burning coal, which we taxpayers cover, are in excess of ten cents per kWh. My electric bill is about $140/month on average. So over 30 years solar would cost over $100,000 more than electricity from the grid (gas, coal, wind). That’s WITHOUT subsidies. All the articles include the subsidies but I’m less interested in what will it cots ME as how much will it cost US.
0 Votes. For the average person looking to build a solar farm on their farm or flat plot of land, the initial investment can be as low as $20,000 to $40,000. You will also be paying plenty more for the instillation, varioius extra equipment, and power lines. 0 Votes. The cost of a solar farm and the economics of how the solar farm operates will differ drastically for arrays of different sizes and depending upon geographic location (i.e. due to varying insolation levels and relative availability of PV/solar equipment suppliers).
This amount of acreage is also a good number if using any type of tracking systems on your panels to increase production levels is your goal. A one megawatt solar farm project will typically cost somewhere around $2.5 Million U.S. dollars and require a site of no less than about five acres. Building solar farms that have higher output rates while requiring less ongoing maintenance is what our company excels at. The primary goal of every solar farm owner is to make sure that their income producing solar farms costs them less upfront when totally commissioned yet supplies them with more long term revenue to make their overall IRR greater than most.
A growing number of homeowners want to know how much solar costs, but it can sometimes be difficult to get a straight answer. To help shine a light, we took the results of over 45,000 solar estimates created by real U.S. homeowners in 2011 and put them into these maps. That’s how much the average solar system will save you over 20 years. Residents in some states with high electricity prices can expect to save much more than that – consider Hawaii, where residents save on average $64,000 with solar after 20 years. (See third image).
Home → Solar Farm Cost Per Acre. A good number for solar farm cost per acre is typically $500,000 here in the U.S. You will find that typically a megawatt size solar farm system will need approximately five acres of land to be oriented and sited properly. The primary goal of every solar farm owner is to make sure that their income producing solar farms costs them less upfront when totally commissioned yet supplies them with more long term revenue to make their overall IRR greater than most.
To put up a solar farm takes on average around $ 1 million, there are many advantages to solar energy including relativly low maintaince cost. It depends on what you call small. 5 watt panels are about a square foot or smaller and cost $10-30. You can't do much with a 5 watt panel though. A 100 watt panel is about ab … out half the size of a regular home door. You can generate enough power to recharge car batteries with one of these in a couple days. These cost $200-300 each