I was perusing the net for carbon felt and found this website and decided to join, lots of cool info here! Just wanted to say that amazon carries carbon felt in a 12*12 size for $6. Fiberglass mat would probably work but it is extremely unpleasant to use without the resin coating, nasty splintery stuff. Wet, it conducts the heat and is as hot as the pot. If you just want a piece to use as a potholder, https://www.minibulldesign.com/produ...0&idcategory=4. he sells carbon felt for a windscreen. I think the piece is 18 x 4.
Felt is used extensively in pianos; for example, piano hammers are made of wool felt around a wooden core. The density and springiness of the felt is a major part of what creates a piano's tone. As the felt becomes grooved and packed with use and age, the tone suffers. Wet felting is one of several methods which can produce felt from wool and other animal fibres. Warm soapy water is applied to layers of animal hairs placed at 90 degree angles to one another. Repeated agitation and compression causes the fibres to hook together into a single piece of fabric.
In this video I try to explain why I use carbon felt/fiber. I couldn't find much on the melting point of fiberglass except something I found in one engineering book where it said that the high temp range was 1000°F (540°C). Please try again later. Since I've been using carbon felt/fiber in my burners I've been getting lots of people asking my why I use expensive carbon felt/fiber instead of cheaper fiberglass insulation.
Felt is a textile that is produced by matting, condensing and pressing fibres together. Felt can be made of natural fibres such as wool or synthetic fibres such as acrylic. There are many different types of felts for industrial, technical, designer and craft applications. Wet felting is one of several methods which can produce felt from wool and other animal fibres. Warm soapy water is applied to layers of animal hairs placed at 90 degree angles to one another. Repeated agitation and compression causes the fibres to hook together into a single piece of fabric.
Some of these are traditional items, such as the classic yurt (Gers), while others are designed for the tourist market, such as decorated slippers. In the Western world, felt is widely used as a medium for expression in textile art as well as design, where it has significance as an ecological textile. Wet felting is one of several methods which can produce felt from wool and other animal fibres. Warm soapy water is applied to layers of animal hairs placed at 90 degree angles to one another. Repeated agitation and compression causes the fibres to hook together into a single piece of fabric.
Thus, caution is necessary when carbon (or graphite) felt is used as the active electrode in an industrial cell, particularly when the initial state of the felt is unchanged, and when the extent of the electrode potential distribution has to be restricted (selectivity criteria). 
I have found a good source for carbon felt. Carbon felt can be used for some alcohol stoves as a way to help immobilize the alcohol fuel. This is a way to make some of the many types of stoves safer. It does this by trapping the fuel in the felt. Carbon felt will not burn up in the stove and is heat resistant up to 2500 deg. F. It makes the stoves so safe that you can tip the stove upside down and shake it while it is running. Here check this video out. Be carful if you are going to do this.
9 - 12. Carbon felt and graphite felt are designed foruse as high temperature insulation invacuum furnaces and inert gas furnaces. Theneedle-punched PAN based carbon andgraphite felt is light in weight and has lowthermal conductivity. 
Carbon felt will work as long as it doesn't get wet. Wet, it conducts the heat and is as hot as the pot. If you just want a piece to use as a potholder, https://www.minibulldesign.com/produ...0&idcategory=4. he sells carbon felt for a windscreen. I think the piece is 18 x 4. He also sells a 1x12 strip for wrapping pot or cup handles