Trends seem to indicate that the demand for Behavior Analysts may be growing, according to a survey conducted by the Association of Professional Behavior Analysts. In 2008, it was reported that 97% of respondents found sufficient demand for their services, and 97.5% reported being professionally employed. 
Behavior analysis is a natural science that seeks to understand the behavior of individuals. That is, behavior analysts study how biological, pharmacological, and experiential factors influence the behavior of humans and nonhuman animals. The Association for Behavior Analysis International® (ABAI) is a nonprofit membership organization with the mission to contribute to the well-being of society by developing, enhancing, and supporting the growth and vitality of the science of behavior analysis through research, education, and practice.
Applied behavior analysis (ABA) is the use of these techniques and principles to bring about meaningful and positive change in behavior. As mentioned, behavior analysts began working with young children with autism and related disorders in the 1960s. 
The Behavior Analysis Certification Board (BACB) defines behavior analysis as follows: The field of behavior analysis grew out of the scientific study of principles of learning and behavior. It has two main branches: experimental and applied behavior analysis. A licensed behavior analyst is a type of mental health professional in the United States. They have at least a master's degree, and sometimes a doctorate, in behavior analysis or a related field. Behavior analysts apply behaviorism to people by performing
ABOUT BEHAVIOR ANALYSIS. Behavior Analysis is the scientific study of principles of learning and behavior. Two primary areas of study include the experimental analysis of behavior and applied behavior analysis. 
Behavior analysis is a unique method of treatment based on the idea that most important human behavior is learned over time and that it is maintained by consequences within the environment. As a behavior analyst, one must seek to identify problematic behavior and develop a positive replacement. With the input of teachers, family and aides, the Behavior Analyst will help you discover what is maintaining a specified behavior, discover more appropriate replacement behaviors, and set up a plan to teach them. Behavior Analysts also develop a plan to help you acquire a new behavior or improve a skill level. At times, Behavior Analysts treat the client directly and other times may be training significant others (i.e. teachers, family members, etc.). Behavior analysts (BAs) do not make judgments about behavior.
Buyer Behavior Analyst: Job Description & Requirements. Behavior analysis is a research-intensive field that follows market trends and the latest in industrial and private purchasing.... Behavior analysts focus on behaviors that can be readily observed and measured. As researchers, they conduct studies that measure specific influences, such as the environment, on behavior or look for new ways to solve behavior problems in specific audiences, such as school children or the elderly.
The model licensing act states that a person is a behavior analyst by training and experience. The person seeking licensure must have mastered behavior analysis by achieving a masters degree in behavior analysis or related subject matter. A licensed behavior analyst is a type of mental health professional in the United States. They have at least a master's degree, and sometimes a doctorate, in behavior analysis or a related field. Behavior analysts apply behaviorism to people by performing applied behavior analysis
Motivation is often an important problem in understanding behavior and the behavior analyst is trained to tackle this complex problem head on. Through interviews with parents, caregivers, teachers, and therapists the behavior analyst may be able to determine how best to motivate the client to facilitate behavior change. In mental health the behavior analyst might work with a team of physicians to increase medication compliance or with rehabilitation specialists to improve work performance. Postsecondary training and education at the Master’s or PhD level are required for a career in behavior analysis.