Reishi, also known as Ganoderma lucidum or lingzhi in Chinese, is an herbal mushroom that’s been long-revered in Asia for its benefits related to immunity, anti-aging, and overall wellness.
Reishi mushroom has been used for thousands of years in many Asian cultures as a traditional medicine to enhance health and prolong life. It is also known as lingzhi.
1 High blood pressure. 2  There is inconsistent evidence about the effects of reishi mushroom on high blood pressure. 3  Early research suggests that taking reishi mushroom extract daily for 12 weeks does not lower blood pressure in people with slightly
Reishi – a regulator of the nervous system. Reishi has traditionally been used in oriental medicine as a remedy for insomnia. Clinical studies have confirmed that the use of Reishi facilitated entry into the “slow” phase of sleep. Reishi in oriental medicine is recommended for a number of diseases of the nerves and psyche.
Reishi mushroom is used for boosting the immune system; viral infections such as the flu (influenza), swine flu, and avian flu; lung conditions including asthma and bronchitis; heart disease and contributing conditions such as high blood pressure and high cholesterol; kidney disease; cancer; and liver disease.
Red Reishi (Ganoderma lucidum), commonly known as Ling Zhi in Chinese, is a herbal mushroom known to have miraculous health benefits.
1 Hepatitis B. Early research suggests that taking a specific reishi mushroom product (Ganopoly) for 12 weeks reduces how much of the hepatitis B virus is circulating in the body. 2  This product also seems to improve liver function in people with this condition.
Immediately want to digress – the use of Reishi mushroom is no substitute for your drugs for diseases, but it is one of the best tools for health prevention and comprehensive treatment. Reishi mushroom (Ganoderma lucidum) used in traditional Chinese medicine for over three thousand years.
Reishi is one of the most versatile medicinal mushrooms. It has long been used in Asia as an energy tonic to promote longevity and overall health. Studies indicate that Reishi is an antioxidant and contains polysaccharides and other compounds that may boost the immune system.