COMMENTS. From September 1, no identity proof would be required at the time of booking a ticket under the Tatkal reservation scheme. (File Photo). New Delhi: Passengers booking tatkal train tickets will not be required to show an identity proof anymore as Railways have decided to discontinue with this provision. The modified provision is expected to come into effect by September 1. Officials said the decision to do away with producing identity card while purchasing tatkal ticket was taken to avoid any duplicity as the passengers had to produce identity proof at the time of the journey too.
“Under the modified rules, there will be no need to furnish photocopy of proof of identity while booking Tatkal ticket from computerized reservation counter or to indicate its number at the time of booking of tatkal ticket at the counter or through internet,” said a railway statement. Decision was taken to avoid any duplicity as passengers had to produce identity proof at the time of journey. PTI. Currently, passengers at the time of booking a ticket have to provide a photocopy of identity card which he/she will carry during the journey.
Photo: Hindustan Times. New Delhi: Passengers booking tatkal train tickets would not be required to produce identity proof anymore as the railways have decided to discontinue with this provision. The modified provision could come into effect by 1 September. Decision was taken to avoid any duplicity as passengers had to produce identity proof at the time of journey. PTI. Currently, passengers at the time of booking a ticket have to provide a photocopy of identity card which he/she will carry during the journey.
A tatkal ticket is a train ticket that you can book just one day before your journey in case you didn’t have the chance to plan it out earlier. All you need to do is book under the ‘tatkal quota’ on the day before you intend to travel, that is, the day prior to your train’s date of departure. You can book your ticket one day in advance to the actual date of your journey. For example, if your train leaves on the 8th of October, tatkal bookings for that train will commence at 10 A.M. on the 7th of October. You need one of the following identification proofs for your tatkal train ticket to be considered valid:
CHENNAI: Soon, passengers need not worry about providing their identity proof while booking tatkal train tickets, be it in the online or offline mode. 
New Delhi: Passengers booking tatkal train tickets would not be required to produce identity proof anymore as the railways have decided to discontinue with this provision. Decision was taken to avoid any duplicity as passengers had to produce identity proof at the time of journey. PTI. Currently, passengers at the time of booking a ticket have to provide a photocopy of identity card which he/she will carry during the journey.
If you are booking your ticket at the ticket counter and not online, you are required to have a copy of your identity proof, but the original is mandatory at the time of actual travel. Four passengers at most can be booked under a PNR for Tatkal tickets, that is, one person can book tickets for four people. You can book your ticket one day in advance to the actual date of your journey. For example, if your train leaves on the 8th of October, tatkal bookings for that train will commence at 10 A.M. on the 7th of October. You need one of the following identification proofs for your tatkal train ticket to be considered valid:
For tatkal tickets, you need to select the ‘tatkal’ option under ‘quota’ instead of ‘general’. You can book your ticket one day in advance to the actual date of your journey. For example, if your train leaves on the 8th of October, tatkal bookings for that train will commence at 10 A.M. on the 7th of October. You need one of the following identification proofs for your tatkal train ticket to be considered valid: Which means that if you are not an Indian citizen, your passport or a credit card with a photograph should suffice. 1  A Voter Photo identity card issued by the Election Commision of India
No ID proof required for Tatkal ticket bookings from Sep 1. PTI New Delhi Last Updated: July 20, 2015 | 12:45 IST. Photo: Reuters. Passengers booking tatkal train tickets would not be required to produce identity proof anymore as Railways have decided to discontinue with this provision. The modified provision could come into effect by September 1. Officials said the decision to do away with producing identity card while purchasing tatkal ticket was taken to avoid any duplicity as the passengers had to produce identity proof at the time of the journey too.