Merry Maids is a subsidiary of industry giant ServiceMaster.At Merry Maids®, our House Cleaning Associates do so much more than clean clients’ homes. They build trust and confidence with our clients. Because we know that the people of Merry Maids® are the backbone of our business, and it’s important that we take care of them just as they do our customers. Our associates are critical to our success in reinventing our customer experience, and in helping us to become the industry leader we strive to be.
Merry Maids cleaning services are available weekly, every other week, monthly or one-time, special event services. Merry Maids' team dusts, vacuums, washes and sanitizes each room. They use their own equipment and products. There are usually at least two cleaners in your home at a time. Merry Maids is one of the largest home cleaning networks in the world. Merry Maids home cleaning services are available weekly, every other week, monthly or a one-time cleaning. On every visit, your Merry Maids team of at lest two people dusts, vacuums, washes and sanitizes each room
Read More. Merry Maids Inc offers employees an average of $10.40 per hour, and overtime earnings push that number up to $12.21. What you do at the company influences pay for Merry Maids Inc workers the most, followed by your experience level. The data in this summary comes from the PayScale salary survey. Employer: Merry Maids Inc. Hourly Rate Range by Job. Check salary info for your own job ». Job. National Hourly Rate Data
Merry Maids is happy to scrub, straighten, and sanitize. Founded in 1979, home cleaning company Merry Maids has more than 600 franchises in the US and Canada and cleans more than 300,000 residences a month. The company also has operations in Hong Kong, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, and the UK. Because we know that the people of Merry Maids® are the backbone of our business, and it’s important that we take care of them just as they do our customers. Our associates are critical to our success in reinventing our customer experience, and in helping us to become the industry leader we strive to be.
Most Merry Maid offices have a special cleaning service that they offer to people who live in an apartment or condominium. For these packages you will get an additional discount if more than one person from the same building requests their services. Merry Maids is one of the largest home cleaning networks in the world. Merry Maids home cleaning services are available weekly, every other week, monthly or a one-time cleaning. On every visit, your Merry Maids team of at lest two people dusts, vacuums, washes and sanitizes each room
I also want... show more I have a maid service clean my 5,000 sq foot, 5 bedroom 4 bath house. I just want a ballpark figure on how much the merry maids cost. Not someone to tell me to do it myself or to hire someone out of the paper. Also, anyone know of any good lawn care companies that mow, trim, and garden once a week. 
Merry Maids put their employees on a time schedule for each home. With a two person team they give you one hour and 30 mins to clean a home, if you go over that time, your pay gets deduct every 15 mins you go over-this is why the cleaners do not do a good job. Merry Maids will give you set hours but will work you over that time and not fully pay you. It takes me 3 hours to clean it, and it was just cleaned the day before Merry Maids came to my home for an estimate, which was: 1st cleaning: $819.13, every cleaning thereafter: $445.12. The estimate is so ridiculous it doesn't even warrant a comment! Do not call them.