4b. Name My Tune – Sing or hum a short clip of the song you are trying to find the name of. Once you are done recording and enter the Genre and Era that you think the song most likely fits in. They’ll send you an email when other people on that site are able to recognize your tune. 3. Record a short clip to identify the music. 3a. AudioTag – If you have a short recording of a song on your computer or your mobile phone, you may use the online music recognition service at AudioTag to figure out the exact name of that song.
Key signatures are a type of musical notation that indicate which key the song is to be played in. But key signatures, despite the name, are not the same thing as key. Key signatures are simply notational devices; just as a note is the notational name for a pitch, key signatures are the notational names for keys. 
1. Find Music with your Mobile Phone. 1a. Shazam – Shazam is a mobile application that you may use to find song names from your iPhone, BlackBerry, Windows Mobile, Android or your Nokia S60 phone. 3. Record a short clip to identify the music. 3a. AudioTag – If you have a short recording of a song on your computer or your mobile phone, you may use the online music recognition service at AudioTag to figure out the exact name of that song.
Find song names using your own voice. 2a. Midomi – If you have a tune that’s stuck in your head, just grab a microphone, hum that tune yourself and Midomi will be able tell you what that song is. Alternatively, you may play a short recording of that “unknown” track for Midomi to identify its name. 3. Record a short clip to identify the music. 3a. AudioTag – If you have a short recording of a song on your computer or your mobile phone, you may use the online music recognition service at AudioTag to figure out the exact name of that song.
Many of these piano brand names are stencil pianos, which means that the company which owns the brand name is simply applying the name to a piano manufactured for them by another company, and that the same or very similar pianos are sold under differing stencil brands. This article is a list of piano brand names from all over the world. This list also includes names of old instruments which are no longer in production.
im trying to find the names of these chords on a piano: ACE ACF GCE GBD i found a site that tells you this, but you have to look for the name, then it tells you the notes.... i want to find the notes and get the name. Follow. 4 answers 4. im trying to find the names of these chords on a piano: ACE. ACF. GCE. GBD. i found a site that tells you this, but you have to look for the name, then it tells you the notes.... i want to find the notes and get the name. Add your answer. Source.
Support me on twitter - @VitoFaircloth. A lot of people ask me about what songs they should learn on the piano, here's 10 famous piano songs so that you can all get an idea of what you would like to learn, or so you can suggest one of them that I can cover in the future! 
ScreenTunes. If it's a tune from a movie soundtrack that's stuck in your brain, or you just can't remember the name of That Song from That Movie, ScreenTunes might be able to help you out. Mashing up the IMDB soundtrack data with the LyrcisFly API, ScreenTunes allows you to search by song or movie title, or by a specific lyric. 
Use a virtual keyboard to find the song name. 5a. Musipedia – With Musipedia, you can search for a song by either playing it on a virtual piano keyboard or by whistling it to the computer using any microphone. Musipedia is styled after Wikipedia and works best at finding classical music. 3. Record a short clip to identify the music. 3a. AudioTag – If you have a short recording of a song on your computer or your mobile phone, you may use the online music recognition service at AudioTag to figure out the exact name of that song.