Phytosanitary certificate document is the origin of the shipment and confirms inspection in the country of origin by a member of that country's national plant protection organization. This helps ensure that the shipment of commodities is free of injurious plant pests and diseases. \n Phytosanitary certificate is governed under the International Plant Protection Convention, a multilateral treaty acknowledged by the World Trade Organization as the source for international standards for phytosanitary measures affecting trade.
(July 2012). Phytosanitary certification is used to attest that consignments meet phytosanitary import requirements and is undertaken by an NPPO (National Plant Protection Organization). A public officer who is authorized by the National Plant Protection organization (NPPO) and accredited for the signing of phytosanitary certificates, who 1)possesses the required education, experience, and training; and 2) has written confirmation of having successfully passed an approved examination.
The USDA APHIS PPQ issues Phytosanitary Certificates for export via the PCIT Phytosanitary Certificate Issuance and Tracking System. This is a program that tracks the inspection of agricultural products and certifies compliance with statutory and regulatory plant health standards of importing countries. A public officer who is authorized by the National Plant Protection organization (NPPO) and accredited for the signing of phytosanitary certificates, who 1)possesses the required education, experience, and training; and 2) has written confirmation of having successfully passed an approved examination.
Phytosanitary certificate document is the origin of the shipment and confirms inspection in the country of origin by a member of that country's national plant protection organi} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGoodLong_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|. \n Phytosanitary certificate is governed under the International Plant Protection Convention, a multilateral treaty acknowledged by the World Trade Organization as the source for international standards for phytosanitary measures affecting trade.
1.1 Purpose of phytosanitary certificates. Phytosanitary certificates are issued to indicate that consignments of plants, plant products or other regulated articles meet specified phytosanitary import requirements and are in conformity with the certifying statement of the appropriate model certificate. Model certificates provide a standard wording and format that should be followed for the preparation of official phytosanitary certificates. This is necessary to ensure the validity of the documents, that they are easily recognized, and that essential information is reported.
A Phytosanitary Certificate is an official document issued by the plant protection organization of the exporting country to the plant protection organization of the importing country. 
1.2 Mode of issue. The phytosanitary certificate is an original document, or under specific circumstances is a certified copy issued by the NPPO, that accompanies the consignment and is presented to the relevant officials upon arrival in the importing country. Model certificates provide a standard wording and format that should be followed for the preparation of official phytosanitary certificates. This is necessary to ensure the validity of the documents, that they are easily recognized, and that essential information is reported.
Phytosanitary Certificate is a certificate that certifies plant and plant products are free from regulated pests, and conforms with other phytosanitary requirements as specified from the importing country. Approximately 10 Minutes in completing the form. 
A phytosanitary certificate for export is usually issued by the NPPO of the country where the plants, plant products or regulated articles were grown or processed (1). A public officer who is authorized by the National Plant Protection organization (NPPO) and accredited for the signing of phytosanitary certificates, who 1)possesses the required education, experience, and training; and 2) has written confirmation of having successfully passed an approved examination.