A gallbladder scan is a nuclear scanning test that is done to check gallbladder function. The scan can find blockage in the tubes (bile ducts) that lead from the liver to the gallbladder and small intestine (duodenum). During a gallbladder scan, a radioactive tracer substance is injected into a vein in the arm. The liver removes the tracer from the bloodstream and adds it to the bile that normally flows through the bile ducts to the gallbladder.
Definition. A HIDA scan is an imaging test. It helps to diagnose problems of the gallbladder and liver. Bile is a fluid that is made in the liver. It is stored in the bile duct. This fluid helps your body digest certain foods. If there is a problem with the production or flow of bile, a HIDA scan may find the problem.
Cholescintigraphy is a test done by nuclear medicine physicians to diagnose obstruction of the bile ducts (for example, by a gallstone or a tumor), disease of the gallbladder, and bile leaks. 
A gallbladder scan is also called a hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid scan (HIDA scan), gallbladder radionuclide scan, hepatobiliary scan, cholescintigraphy, or hepatobiliary scintigraphy. A gallbladder scan is only one method used to diagnose conditions of the gallbladder, liver and bile ducts. Discuss all of your testing options with your doctor to understand which options are right for you. 1  Previous. 2  1.
Other related procedures that may be used to diagnose problems of the gallbladder include abdominal X-rays, computed tomography (CT scan) of the liver and biliary tract, abdominal ultrasound, cholecystography, or endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) . A gallbladder scan is a specialized radiology procedure used to assess the function and structure of the gallbladder. This procedure may also be referred to as a liver-biliary scan because the liver often is examined as well due to its proximity and close functional relationship to the gallbladder.
HIDA Scan. HIDA scan is an imaging procedure that helps your doctor track the production and flow of bile from your liver to your small intestine. Bile is a fluid produced by your liver that helps your digestive system break down fats in the foods you eat. A HIDA scan, which stands for hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid scan, creates pictures of your liver, gallbladder, biliary tract and small intestine. A HIDA scan can also be called cholescintigraphy, hepatobiliary scintigraphy or hepatobiliary scan. A HIDA scan is a type of imaging study called a nuclear medicine scan.
HIDA scan test or cholescintigraphy is one of the tests used to diagnose gallbladder problems or obstructions in the bile duct. The HIDA scan exam may be advised for a patient when gallbladder disease is suspected but cannot be detected by the usual ultrasound procedure. Basically, the HIDA scan test is a scan that uses a radioactive dye, namely, hydroxy imino diaetic acid (HIDA), to trace the path of the bile produced by the liver.
Definition. A HIDA scan is an imaging test. It helps to diagnose problems of the gallbladder and liver. Bile is a fluid that is made in the liver. It is stored in the bile duct. This fluid helps your body digest certain foods. If there is a problem with the production or flow of bile, a HIDA scan may find the problem
A cholescintigraphy is a test that diagnoses obstructed bile ducts. Cholescintigraphy is most commonly used to diagnose problems with the gallbladder when other more commonly-performed tests, particularly ultrasonography, are normal. 