If you are unsure about what is covered under your homeowners insurance policy, you should talk to your insurance agent to clarify the details. Now that you know what types of perils homeowners insurance policies typically cover, it's time to determine what aspects of your home are covered. 
Branch Owner, TWFG Insurance Services, Fremont California and the Greater Bay Area Representing Dozens of Insurance Carriers. If your electrical wiring is just old, deteriorating and or wore out then no, homeowners insurance does not cover electrical wiring. Electrical wiring would only be covered if it is damaged by a covered peril. Homeowners insurance does not pay to replace out dated wiring or renovation of wiring. Homeowners insurance is not designed as a maintenance policy. It is designed to protect you from unforeseeable events such as fire, wind damage, lightning strikes and similar perils
If you want to know why fire insurance coverage is so important, all you have to do is take a look at some recent statistics on the frequency of home fires and the extent of the damage they have done. According to the U.S. Fire Administration, there were more than 360,000 residential fires in 2010. Having fire insurance can save you from financial disaster. Your home is probably your most valuable asset. Failing to insure it against fire damage could put you in a precarious financial situation if you leave yourself no recourse in the event of a fire.
Yes, the homeowner`s insurance cover electrical fires of house. They do not come to look the burnt place that how much the house is burnt due to fire. The insurance company will pay the amount only to rebuilt or reconstruct the house burnt by electrical fires. 
Best Answer: Homeowners insurance covers sudden, accidental damage. It does NOT cover maintenance issues. So, it depends on what CAUSED the go. If it's DAMAGED, and the damage was caused by a covered cause of loss, yes. If not, no-but they'll make you fix it anyway. 
What most standard homeowners policies provide. 1  Dwelling coverage. 2  Pays to repair or rebuild your home-including electrical wiring, plumbing, and heating and air conditioning-if damaged by a covered cause of loss. 3  It's important to buy enough dwelling coverage to cover the cost to rebuild. Most homeowners insurance policies will cover damage caused by such perils as fire, windstorms, hail, lightning, theft or vandalism. There are other homeowners policies that cover additional perils as well.
Owner, SeniorCare Financial Services Northeast Ohio, Electrical wiring would only be covered if it is damaged by a covered peril. Homeowners insurance does not pay to replace out dated wiring or renovation of wiring. Homeowners insurance is not designed as a maintenance policy. It is designed to protect you from unforeseeable events such as fire, wind damage, lightning strikes and similar perils.
What's covered; what's not. Most homeowners insurance policies will cover damage caused by such perils as fire, windstorms, hail, lightning, theft or vandalism. There are other homeowners policies that cover additional perils as well. Typically, floods and earthquakes are excluded
It is always a good idea to have a conversation with your Insurance Professional about the specific terms and conditions of your policy, but damage caused by fire is generally a covered peril in a standard Homeowners' policy. 