So far, it has only been possible to  create superconductors at cryogenic (i.e., supercold)  temperatures.       Superconductivity is a property of a substance at a given  temperature, not of a substance at any temperature. The negitive about things. A drawback means a disadvantage to an action or policy. (The term drawback has a separate legal meaning as a refund of excise fees.). 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
Sufficiently pure aluminum is superconducting at 1.2 Kelvin. Many of the pure elements are superconductors at sufficiently low temperatures, but some of them require special c … onditions, such as platinum. Platinum doesn't superconduct unless it's in nanoparticles. The negitive about things. A drawback means a disadvantage to an action or policy. (The term drawback has a separate legal meaning as a refund of excise fees.). 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
Answers. Best Answer: Unfortunately, no superconductors have yet been found with critical temperatures above room temperature, so cryogenic cooling is still a vital part of any superconducting application. Difficulties with fabricating ceramic materials into conducting wires or strips have also slowed down the development of new applications of high-temperature superconductors.
Superconductivity is a phenomenon of exactly zero electrical resistance and expulsion of magnetic fields occurring in certain materials when cooled below a characteristic critical temperature. In 1986, it was discovered that some cuprate-perovskite ceramic materials have a critical temperature above 90 K (−183 °C). Such a high transition temperature is theoretically impossible for a conventional superconductor, leading the materials to be termed high-temperature superconductors.
A superconduct … or is a material that has zero electrical resistance  at certain temperatures. For example, in a ring of superconducting  material, if you induce a current to flow in a circle, it will  continue flowing for ever. The negitive about things. A drawback means a disadvantage to an action or policy. (The term drawback has a separate legal meaning as a refund of excise fees.). 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.
superconductor. A material that has little resistance to the flow of electricity. Traditional superconductors operate at absolute zero (-459.67 degrees Fahrenheit or -273.15 degrees Celsius). Experiments in the 1980s raised the temperature to -321 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Drawbacks-Higher tier. At the moment, superconductors only work at very low temperatures. They have to be kept very cold with liquid nitrogen or liquid helium. A lot of work is going into developing superconductors that will work at normal temperatures. Until this happens, their uses will be limited. Page: 1  1. They will have little or no electrical resistance. For example, mercury is a liquid metal. It solidifies at –38.8 °C and becomes a superconductor at –268.8 °C.
superconductor. A material that has little resistance to the flow of electricity. Traditional superconductors operate at absolute zero (-459.67 degrees Fahrenheit or -273.15 degrees Celsius). Experiments in the 1980s raised the temperature to -321 degrees Fahrenheit. Superconductor. a substance in which the electrical resistance disappears when the substance is cooled below a certain critical, or transition, temperature T c. In other words, a superconductor is a substance that exhibits superconductivity.
Superconductors. Maglev trains are held just above the tracks by powerful superconducting electromagnets. At low temperatures, some metals can become superconductors. They will have little or no electrical resistance. For example, mercury is a liquid metal. It solidifies at –38.8 °C and becomes a superconductor at –268.8 °C.
Superconductors are things that have no electrical resistance when  they are at low enough temperatures, typically close to absolute  zero i.e. 0 Kelvin or about -273 degrees C.   There are also 'high-temperature' superconductors that operate at  about 70 degrees K (-203 degrees C). The negitive about things. A drawback means a disadvantage to an action or policy. (The term drawback has a separate legal meaning as a refund of excise fees.). 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements.