Background. Urethritis is defined as infection-induced inflammation of the urethra. Although various clinical conditions may result in irritation of the urethra, the term urethritis is typically reserved to describe urethral inflammation caused by a sexually transmitted disease (STD).
Nongonococcal urethritis (NGU) is an inflammation of the urethra that is not caused by gonorrheal infection. For treatment purposes, doctors usually classify infectious urethritis in two categories: gonococcal urethritis, caused by gonorrhea, and nongonococcal urethritis (NGU).
Urethritis, as characterized by urethral inflammation, can result from infectious and noninfectious conditions. Symptoms, if present, include discharge of mucopurulent or purulent material, dysuria, or urethral pruritis. Asymptomatic infections are common. M. genitalium, which appears to be sexually transmitted, is associated with both symptoms of urethritis and urethral inflammation and accounts for 15%–25% of NGU cases in the United States (240-243).
Urethritis is inflammation (swelling and irritation) of the urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the body. A.D.A.M. 
Gonococcal urethritis: An infection of the urethra causing inflammation by a gonococcal organism. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Gonococcal urethritis is available below. 
Urethritis is caused by either a bacterium or a virus-it is classed as either gonococcal urethritis which is caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae, or non-gonococcal urethritis (NGU), caused by Chlamydia trachomatis-one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases affecting both men and women. 
The urethra is the tube between the bladder and the end of the penis. Urethritis means inflammation of the urethra. 1  Gonococcal urethritis is caused by a germ (bacterium) called Neisseria gonorrhoeae. 2  Non-gonococcal urethritis (NGU) is due to causes other than gonorrhoea. 3  Some men have both gonococcal and non-gonococcal urethritis at the same time. 1 Gonococcal urethritis is caused by a germ (bacterium) called Neisseria gonorrhoeae. 2  This is one type of sexually transmitted infection. 3  See separate leaflet called Gonorrhoea, which describes gonorrhoea in more detail. 4
Most episodes of urethritis are caused by infection by bacteria that enter the urethra from the skin around the urethra's opening. Bacteria that commonly cause urethritis include: 1  E. coli and other bacteria present in stool. 2  Gonococcus, which is sexually transmitted and causes gonorrhea. 3  Chlamydia trachomatis, which is sexually transmitted and causes chlamydia.
Urethritis is inflammation of the urethra. That's the tube that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body. Pain with urination is the main symptom of urethritis. Urethritis is commonly due to infection by bacteria. It can typically be cured with antibiotics. Bacteria that commonly cause urethritis include: 1  E. coli and other bacteria present in stool. 2  Gonococcus, which is sexually transmitted and causes gonorrhea. 3  Chlamydia trachomatis, which is sexually transmitted and causes chlamydia.
Practice Essentials. Urethritis is defined as infection-induced inflammation of the urethra. The term is typically reserved to describe urethral inflammation caused by an STD, and the condition is normally categorized into either gonococcal urethritis (GU) or nongonococcal urethritis (NGU). Urethritis is defined as infection-induced inflammation of the urethra. Although various clinical conditions may result in irritation of the urethra, the term urethritis is typically reserved to describe urethral inflammation caused by a sexually transmitted disease (STD).