Dolphins are marine mammals that are closely related to whales and porpoises. There are almost forty species of dolphin in seventeen genera. They vary in size from 1.2 m (4 ft) and 40 kg (90 lb) (Maui's Dolphin), up to 9.5 m (30 ft) and 10 tonnes (9.8 LT; 11 ST) (the Orca or Killer Whale). 
Hunting. Dolphins move in pods and will also hunt as a group that surrounds a school of small fish and crowd them together. Then dolphins take turns feeding as the other members of the pod look on. Other dolphins corral schools of fish into shallow water to feed. Eating. Typically, a dolphin will swallow a fish whole--head first, so bones will not become stucks while going down. An adult dolphin can eat between 4 percent and 6 percent of its body weight in one day.
Factors that influence what dolphins eat include what food species share their habitat, the number of calories a particular dolphin species needs to sustain daily life, the shape of their nose or rostrum and the size or type of their teeth. Most dolphins are opportunistic feeders that will eat whatever aquatic food species are common in their territory. Killer whales, the largest member of the dolphin family, are known to eat fish, but also will consume other sea mammals, such as seals and sea lions and other dolphin or whale species.
Dolphins are carnivores and eat a variety of small fish, squid and shrimp. The large mammals sometimes hunt in groups but also feed alone. Researchers have found that dolphins, like humans, can acquire tastes for different things. Some dolphins prefer to eat mackerel or herring while others favor squid. The most common food source is fish. Eating. Typically, a dolphin will swallow a fish whole--head first, so bones will not become stucks while going down. An adult dolphin can eat between 4 percent and 6 percent of its body weight in one day.
Without abundant quantities of fish and other types of prey dolphins would have a hard time thriving in the ocean and inhibiting certain types of environments where particular food sources are likely to live. As you can see the variety of foods dolphins consume can vary significantly based on their species, location and availability of various food sources. Note: Both the killer whale and false killer whale belong to the dolphin family despite the world “whale” being a part of their name.
Bottlenose Dolphin Feeding. The majority of the diet for the Bottlenose Dolphin is fish, and they have lots of species that they can consume. What they can get though depends on where they live. Squid is also a food source for these dolphins. Bottlenose Dolphin Description. The Bottlenose Dolphin is large sized and the length of it can average from 10 to 14 feet. They may way as much as 1,100 pounds but the typical size is from 330 to 440 pounds. The location where these dolphins live and what they eat plays a huge role in their length and their weight.
What is the dolphins diet food source?   They eat a wide variety of fishes, squids, and crustaceans depending on their location. They eat approximately 4% to 5% of their body weight in food per day, meaning the … y spend a great deal of time searching for food and feeding. Bottlenose dolphins are one of the most common dolphins. They get their name from their short, stubby beak that looks like a bottle. They are named bottlenose because their n … oses are shaped like bottles. Some scientists think bottlenoses are the most intelligent dolphins.
When it comes to the types of foods dolphins consume these marine mammals are known to eat a number of different fish, various oceanic animals and in some cases marine mammals. As you can see the variety of foods dolphins consume can vary significantly based on their species, location and availability of various food sources. Note: Both the killer whale and false killer whale belong to the dolphin family despite the world “whale” being a part of their name.
Fish, Squid and Shrimp. The main staple of a dolphin's diet depends on where the animal lives. Dolphins that live along the coast eat more fish and small crustaceans, such as crabs or sand fleas, according to research from Seaworld. Eating. Typically, a dolphin will swallow a fish whole--head first, so bones will not become stucks while going down. An adult dolphin can eat between 4 percent and 6 percent of its body weight in one day.