Alligators are about 8 - 12 in length when they are hatched from eggs. Growth rates may vary from 2 per year up to 12 per year, depending on the type of habitat in which the alligator is living and the sex, size and age of the alligator. Growth rates slow down as alligators become older.
If the young escape predation and can find enough food, they may grow between 3 and 8 inches in length yearly. When they reach lengths of about 6 feet, they are considered adults. With the start of their breeding season in May, male alligators bellow to females and other males in the area. By June, pairs have mated, and females begin building mound nests out of marsh reeds or other vegetation.
Reproduction Alligator eggs and young Alligators of various ages in Everglades National ParkThe maturity of the alligator is dependent more upon the size of the animal than its age. An alligator is generally considered mature when it reaches a length of six feet or more. They are seasonal breeders. The mating season is in spring when the water warms. The female builds a nest of vegetation that rots, incubating the eggs.
Alligators are about 10-12 in length when they are hatched from eggs. Growth rates may vary from 2 per year to 12 per year, depending on the type of habitat the alligator is living in and the sex, size an age of the alligator.
Adult male American alligators measure up to 3.4 to 4.6 m (11 to 15 ft) in length, and can weigh up to 453 kg (999 lb). Females are smaller, measuring around 3 m (9.8 ft).
A mound nester with an average clutch size of about 45 eggs, mean hatching length is 22 centimeters (9 inches). Parental care has recently been documented. Alligators reproduce or multiply when they mature. This takes place when they are about 7 to 12 years old.
Male alligators can grow up to 16 feet in length, although 14 footers are rare, and female alligators can grow up to 10 feet. After breeding, females lay an average of 35 to 40 eggs that incubate for about 65 days. Alligators are about eight to ten inches in length when born.