37 CONNECT 48 TWEET 26 LINKEDIN 1 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. Travelocity and Expedia, two of the biggest online travel sites, will begin working together next year, with Expedia providing content, technology and customer service for its one-time rival. Post to Facebook. Expedia will become the technological force behind Travelocity's websites currently operating in the U.S. and Canada, allow Travelocity to tap into its listings for hotels and flights, and handle its customer service.
Prior to its IPO, Expedia, Inc. was a wholly owned subsidiary of Microsoft Corporation (Nasdaq: MSFT). Following the initial public offering, Expedia, Inc. became a separate company, but still has a contractual relationship with and is still majority-owned by Microsoft. 
IAC spun off its travel group of businesses under the Expedia, Inc. name in August 2005, including Expedia, Expedia Corporate Travel (now Egencia), TripAdvisor, Classic Vacations, eLong, Hotels.com, and Hotwire.com. Expedia, Inc.’s companies operate more than 100 branded points of sale in more than 60 countries. Expedia also powers travel bookings for over 10,000 partners such as airlines and hotels, consumer brands, and high traffic websites through Expedia Affiliate Network, 80% of which is powered by their API. Expedia Inc. is listed on Nasdaq under the ticker symbol EXPE
Expedia Inc. confirms it will retain the Travelocity brand formerly owned by parent company, Sabre Corp., which will complement brands such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Venere etc. To put into perspective exactly how many companies Expedia, inc. owns we’ve piled every acquired company into on photo. Today was a big day for travel giant, Expedia, after it was announced they agreed on terms to acquire Travelocity for a reported $280 Million.
Expedia is an online travel company initially launched in October 22, 1996 as the first Microsoft internet property. The initial team was composed of Greg Slyngstad, Group Manager; Richard Barton, Group Product Manager; Soraya Bittencourt, Group Program Manager; and Byron Bishop, Group Developer Manager.
On July 6, 2014, it was announced that Expedia, Inc had agreed to buy Wotif.com Holdings Ltd, an online travel company that covers the Asia-Pacific region. Wotif's brands include Wotif.com, lastminute.com.au and travel.com.au. Expedia, Inc.’s companies operate more than 100 branded points of sale in more than 60 countries. Expedia also powers travel bookings for over 10,000 partners such as airlines and hotels, consumer brands, and high traffic websites through Expedia Affiliate Network, 80% of which is powered by their API. Expedia Inc. is listed on Nasdaq under the ticker symbol EXPE
Expedia, Inc. is one of the largest online travel companies in the world, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes some of the world’s leading online travel brands. Collectively, the Expedia, Inc. brands cover virtually every aspect of researching, planning, and booking travel, from choosing the best airplane seat, to reading personal travel reviews of hotels, to planning what to do in a destination once you arrive.
Expedia. Expedia is not just one online agency. Its parent company, Expedia Inc., owns several other brands including Travelocity.com, Hotels.com, Egencia, Hotwire, eLong, Trivago, Venere, CarRentals.com, Classic Vacations, Expedia CruiseShip Centers and Expedia Local Expert. 333 108th Ave NE.