To make a splint: 1  Take a long thin item, as long as your broken finger, such as a popsicle stick or a pen. 2  Place it next to your broken finger, or have a friend or family member help you hold it in place. 3  Use medical tape to wrap together the stick or pen and your finger. 1 Take a long thin item, as long as your broken finger, such as a popsicle stick or a pen. 2  Place it next to your broken finger, or have a friend or family member help you hold it in place. 3  Use medical tape to wrap together the stick or pen and your finger. 4  Wrap it loosely. 5  The tape should not squeeze or pinch
4-6 weeks: All things being equal, the bone shold heal in 4-6 weeks. If it is a complicated fracture, infected, or if other issues, it may take longer. Discuss with your orthopedist or hand surgeon. Get help from a doctor now ›. Broken Finger: For a broken finger to heal, it only takes 2-3 weeks compared to fracture of a big bone which is 6 weeks. ...Read more
Answer by Mikereptile. Confidence votes 60. It takes about 6-8 weeks to heal, depending on the type of injury sustained. (Keep the finger as still as you can !!!!). When broken place the hand in ice cold water for about 5 min.s then take it and wrap the whole hand in a soft wrap (anything that is a soft colth) . Take the wraped hand and hold it above or upright to the hea
it all matters on how well your body repairs itself but usially after a broken a bone that part of the body is never going to be the same but the thumb should take 1 to 3 months to fully heal. its not the end of the world. i broke my thumb and didn't know it for 3 weeks. 
It depends on how badly the ankle is broken... If it is a really bad injury, it could take up to a year. If the ankle's bones are just moved apart a little bit, it might … take up a minimum of 2 months. + 6 others found this useful. The time changes for everyone, depending on age, health conditions before the break, and how bad the break is. On average, the break takes about 1-3 months to fully heal. If t … he hip has been operated on it usually takes longer to heal than one without operation.
Answers. Best Answer: Fractures typically take 6-8 weeks to heal depending on severity (hairline, complete, displaced, etc), location, and if the patient smokes, etc. You need to keep it immobilized for proper healing. 
I'm not to sure exactly, but I broke my thumb 2 days ago and have been given a thumb splint to wear for the next 6 weeks. According to the doctors, if there are no complications it should be fixed by then. Fingers crossed though. I've just ad a broken tumb 6 1/2 weeks back... and im aloud to take it of tomorrow. so it would take 5 to 7 weeks to heal. iv'e just broken mine 4 hours ago, and have all this to look forward to!! Broke mine yesterday bummer. -I broke my thumb about 3 weeks ago and I can lift weights and all, the bad thing was that it was my dominate thumb. I had to learn to write with my left. The time changes for everyone, depending on age, health conditions before the break, and how bad the break is. On average, the break takes about 1-3 months to fully heal. If t … he hip has been operated on it usually takes longer to heal than one without operation.
Health related question in topics Conditions Illness .We found some answers as below for this question How long does a broken finger take to heal,you can compare them. It usually takes a broken finger 4-6 weeks but be careful and don't fracture the finger while healing. ChaCha 24/7! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/how-long-does-a-broken-finger-take-to-heal ]. More Answers to  How long does a broken finger take to heal . 
After two weeks go in for another x-ray. While it would probably take a full six weeks for the fracture to heal completely, after two weeks your thumb would already be usable. Doctors recommend the extra weeks to ensure the chance of another fracture or break is minimal. Just be aware and careful of the thumb after two weeks. 