Your third cousin is the great-grandchild of your great-great-aunt or great-great-uncle. You share a set of great-great-grandparents with your third cousin, but do not have the same great-grandparents. Fourth cousins have one set of great-great-great-grandparents, but not the same great-great-grandparents. And so on. 
Third cousins. You and the children of your parents' second cousins are third cousins and share at least one great-great-grandparent. And so on with the fourth, fifth, and sixth cousins. First cousin once removed. A relationship that is removed is one that exists in two different genealogical generations. The child of your first cousin is also your first cousin once removed: your grandparent is that child's great-grandparent. You can do the whole removed thing for every category of cousins -- second cousin once removed, and so on. But by then you'll probably drive everyone completely crazy.
The ordinals in the terms first cousins, second cousins, third cousins, refer to the number of generations to one's closest common ancestor. The number of G words used to describe this ancestor will determine how close the relationship is. Two people for whom a first cousin relationship is one generation removed. The child of one's first cousin; also the first cousin of one's parent. Frank and his father's first cousin, Emma, are first cousins once removed.
You and your first cousins are in the same generation (two generations younger than your grandparents) so the word “removed” is NOT used to describe your relationship. The words “once removed” mean that there is a difference of one generation. For example, your mother’s first cousin is your first cousin, once removed. 
Your second cousin is the grandchild of your great aunt or great uncle. (If two people are first cousins, the children of each of the people will be second cousins.) Your third cousin is the great-grandchild of your great-great uncle or great-great aunt.
Third, Fourth, and Fifth Cousins: Your third cousins have the same great-great-grandparents, fourth cousins have the same great-great-great-grandparents, and so on. Removed: When the word removed is used to describe a relationship, it indicates that the two people are from different generations. You and your first cousins are in the same generation (two generations younger than your grandparents), so the word removed is not used to describe your relationship. 1  The words once removed mean that there is a difference of one generation.
The child of your 1st cousin and the child of your great aunt or uncle are both your first cousin once removed. Note that the number of generations difference is the same: The relationship from a child of your great aunt or great uncle to you is the same as the relationship from you to a child of your 1st cousin. You can use the chart below to calculate the relationship between two people.
Children of first cousins are second cousins to each other as they share great grandparents. Children of second cousin are third cousins to each other a they share great great grandparents. and so on. Now you are a first cousin once removed to your parents' first cousin as their grandparents are your great grandparents. Thus one generation removed. You are also a first cousin once removed to your first cousins' children as your grandparents are their great grandparents. Again one generation removed. Many people think that is a second cousin relationship and it isn't. Here is a relationship chart: http://www.islandregister.com/cousin.htm... 
If you can't keep your third cousins and your first cousins twice removed straight, you are not alone. But there's a simple way to figure out the relationships between relations. First cousins share a grandparent, second cousins share a great-grandparent, third cousins share a great-great-grandparent, and so on. The degree of cousinhood (first, second, etc.) denotes the number of generations between two cousins and their nearest common ancestor. 