They are very social animals and live with other llamas as a herd. The wool produced by a llama is very soft and lanolin-free. Llamas are intelligent and can learn simple tasks after a few repetitions. When using a pack, they can carry about 25% to 30% of their body weight for 8–13 km (5–8 miles). [ˈʒama]) (Lama glama) is a domesticated South American camelid, widely used as a meat and pack animal by Andean cultures since pre-Hispanic times. The height of a full-grown, full-size llama is 1.7 to 1.8 m (5.6 to 5.9 ft) tall at the top of the head, and can weigh between 130 and 200 kg (290 and 440 lb).
Most people put about 60-80 pounds on their llamas and walk 5-9 miles a day. Some llama packers like to cover greater distances. It varies with each person and each animal. Some commercial packers have loaded 100 pounds on their well-conditioned animals. Some may just have nasty temperaments. Llamas are pretty much the same. They spit (or threaten to spit) in their llama social structure to attempt to gain advantage over other llamas. Some, out of fear, anger, mistreatment, anxiety, or warped personality, may spit on people, too. It is the misbehaving human – and llama – that makes the new
The truth is that they do spit, but usually only at other llamas and nearly always over food. Most people think all llamas spit at people, which is an impression you've gotten from a visit to a petting zoo. A petting zoo isn't a good environment for a llama, because.... Llamas are herd animals. How large do llamas get? Llamas can be anywhere from about five feet to six feet tall at the top of their head when fully grown, or between three and four years of age. Llamas can weigh anywhere between 250 pounds and 500 pounds, and live between 15 and 25 years.
[ˈʎama]. [ˈʒama]) (Lama glama) is a domesticated South American camelid, widely used as a meat and pack animal by Andean cultures since pre-Hispanic times. The height of a full-grown, full-size llama is 1.7 to 1.8 m (5.6 to 5.9 ft) tall at the top of the head, and can weigh between 130 and 200 kg (290 and 440 lb). At birth, a baby llama (called a cria) can weigh between 9 and 14 kg (20 and 31 lb)
You might think 6 feet would be enough. Really how far do llamas spit? It won’t be able to reach 6 feet, right? Sadly, 6 feet is still not a safe distance. You see, they don’t even like spitting on humans. It is usually a llama-llama interaction. In cases where they do spit on humans, it’s usually because they don’t like the way you’re treating them. So, take care of your llamas properly to avoid being spit at. That or learn to duck quickly enough.
You will still be sprayed on with its spit. So how far do you really have to go to be safe? Well, llamas’ spit can still reach you up to around 11 feet. 11 feet is a fair distance. If you are able to act quickly enough, you might just be able to void being spit on. But in a windy day, you might want to stay a few more feet back. Once a llama spits, it’s pretty difficult to protect yourself from it. You see, they don’t even like spitting on humans. It is usually a llama-llama interaction. In cases where they do spit on humans, it’s usually because they don’t like the way you’re treating them. So, take care of your llamas properly to avoid being spit at. That or learn to duck quickly enough.
A llama can spit over a distance of about 10 to 15 feet (3 to 4.5 meters). Even at that range, a llama can spit with surprising accuracy, so don’t drop your guard too quickly. 2 of 2 Show All. Llamas definitely do spit, a trait they share with other South American camelids. I’ve seen a llama spit all over a tourist in Bolivia and -- believe me -- it’s not a pretty sight.
on average llamas are 6 times more hung then alpacas and their sperm cells are the size of tadpolls. this can sometime cause some health issues with the sperm cell getting stu … ck inside the penis hole and feeding of the penis hole for a source of energy. 2 people found this useful. Answered. They only spit if you are teasing them by sticking your face close to them, or mistreating them in some way. This is seen as offensive and a challenge to a llama, and as a d … efense they will spit.