A popular objection to eating liver is the belief that the liver is a storage organ for toxins in the body. While it is true that one of the liver’s role is to neutralize toxins (such as drugs, chemical agents and poisons), it does not store these toxins. Speaking of vitamin A: I have learned that cod liver oil and liver itself are both high in vitamin A, so much so that it seems that you can easily overdose and end up with vitamin A toxicity (details on Wikipedia etc.) so caution is advised. Perhaps best not to take both for any extended period of time.
Beef liver supplies significant amounts of amino acids, vitamins and minerals. When buying beef liver, you want to look for calves' liver, which is generally tenderer and milder in flavor than meat from older animals. Beef liver offers significant amounts of protein, essential amino acids, vitamins and minerals. The same serving of beef liver supplies 917 percent of the adult female RDA for vitamin A and 713 percent of the adult male RDA. Vitamin A is integral to vital organ, immune, vision and reproductive functions and is also active in cell communication, growth and differentiation.
Photo Credit Eising/Photodisc/Getty Images. Because the liver filters poisons and other potentially harmful substances out of the blood, some people assume eating beef liver is bad for your health. While consuming beef liver does warrant some potential considerations, it is overwhelmingly good for you. If you have high cholesterol, liver may not be a good choice for your dietbecause liver is quite high in cholesterol. 
A Sharine Forbes, Geriatric Medicine, answered. Eating liver is good for a variety of reasons, for example, a serving of about 3oz contains almost 550% of the recommended daily allowance of Vitamin A. Additionally, it is rich in B vitamins, vitamin D and Iron. Essentially, eating 3oz of meat can prove to be very beneficial for people of all ages. While liver is actually a good source of nutrients, it has too many toxins for me to recommend (there's a sewer's amount of toxins in one ounce of foie gras).
Best Answer: In a way, the liver which a filter for the blood but it doesn't hold the toxins for long.. besides cooking burns off toxins. Reality, liver is good for you only because it contains alot of Iron.. Which your body needs. Food rich in iron is a good thing, iron suppliments bad! I actually think that it is bad for you. When you explained about the filtering process and toxins, most of the toxins are usually what end of being waste products. So, if you're eating cow liver, you're really eating the filter for blood, droppings, and urine.
The major disadvantage of eating beef liver is the amount of cholesterol it contains. A slice of beef liver has 90 percent of the DV of cholesterol. Cholesterol is vital to the creation of cells and certain hormones, but your body naturally produces all it needs. The same serving of beef liver supplies 917 percent of the adult female RDA for vitamin A and 713 percent of the adult male RDA. Vitamin A is integral to vital organ, immune, vision and reproductive functions and is also active in cell communication, growth and differentiation.
If your going to eat liver eat organic liver. liver is the organ that filters toxins. If its not organic all the antibiotics and steroids they give livestock is in it. In addition meat is bad for you and it will never be a better source of protein vitamins and minerals than vegetables. Speaking of vitamin A: I have learned that cod liver oil and liver itself are both high in vitamin A, so much so that it seems that you can easily overdose and end up with vitamin A toxicity (details on Wikipedia etc.) so caution is advised. Perhaps best not to take both for any extended period of time.
In moderation, cow or chicken liver will supply you with lots of iron. People who eat lots of it will develop gout-a condition where your body develops urea crystals, usually in toes or legs that is very painful. You are right, livers are meant to filter the blood. They also regulate cholesterol levels. I actually think that it is bad for you. When you explained about the filtering process and toxins, most of the toxins are usually what end of being waste products. So, if you're eating cow liver, you're really eating the filter for blood, droppings, and urine.