It is bounded on the northeast, north, and northwest by the Gulf Coast of the United States, on the southwest and south by Mexico, and on the southeast by Cuba. The Gulf of Mexico formed approximately 300 million years ago as a result of plate tectonics. The Gulf's basin is roughly oval and is approximately 810 nautical miles (1,500 km) wide and floored by sedimentary rocks and recent sediments.
Gulf is a portion of the sea, that is almost surrounded by land except one narrow opening. Gulfs are formed when a giant rock collapses or when a piece of land sinks. This causes a big indentation in the area, and the water eventually fills it up. Gulfs are also formed through a natural process of erosion. 
1 Gulf of Mexico, large body of water adjacent to the United States and Mexico. 2  Gulf Coast of the United States. 3  Persian Gulf, body of water between Iran (also known as Persia) and the Arabian Peninsula.  4 Gulf countries or The Gulf, terms for Arab states of the Persian Gulf. 5  In Australia : 
A gulf landform is the sea or ocean that reaches into land. When looking from outer space the land looks like it is indented with a large body of water that may look like an arm. The Gulf of Mexico is also the largest gulf in the world. The Persian Gulf is also another popular type of gulf. It is located between the Middle Eastern countries of Iran, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. It receives most of its water from the Indian Ocean.
noun. The Gulf of Mexico is an example of a gulf. The Gulf of Mexico is an example of a gulf. The definition of a gulf is a deep ravine or a deep inlet of the sea, or big divides or large distances between people caused by their differences or lack of understanding of each other. 1  A deep inlet of the sea is an example of a gulf.
The Gulf Stream is a powerful current in the Atlantic Ocean. It starts in the Gulf of Mexico and flows into the Atlantic at the tip of Florida, accelerating along the eastern coastlines of the United States and Newfoundland. It is part of the North Atlantic Subtropical Gyre, one of the five major oceanic gyres, which are large systems of circular currents and powerful winds.
The noun GULF has 3 senses: 1. an arm of a sea or ocean partly enclosed by land; larger than a bay. 2. an unbridgeable disparity (as from a failure of understanding). 3. a deep wide chasm. Familiarity information: GULF used as a noun is uncommon. 
gulf. n. 1. Abbr. G. A large area of a sea or ocean partially enclosed by land, especially a long landlocked portion of sea opening through a strait. 2. A deep, wide chasm; an abyss. 3. Noun. 1. gulf-an arm of a sea or ocean partly enclosed by land; larger than a bay. body of water, water-the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean); they invaded our territorial waters; they were sitting by the water's edge.
Two of the most famous gulf landforms in the world are the Gulf of Mexico and the Persian Gulf. The Gulf of Mexico has water from the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea going around Florida into some of the Southern United States and Mexico. The Gulf of Mexico is also the largest gulf in the world. The Persian Gulf is also another popular type of gulf. It is located between the Middle Eastern countries of Iran, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. It receives most of its water from the Indian Ocean.
gulf. 1. a portion of an ocean or sea partly enclosed by land. 2. a deep hollow; abyss. 3. any wide divergence, as between individuals in social status, opinion, etc., or between theory and practice. 4. something that engulfs or swallows up. Noun. 1. gulf-an arm of a sea or ocean partly enclosed by land; larger than a bay. body of water, water-the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean); they invaded our territorial waters; they were sitting by the water's edge.