The urinary tract is comprised of the bladder, kidneys, ureters and urethra. Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in the body and account for around 8.1 million visits to health care providers each year.
Water infection symptoms can be very bothersome for both men and women, although they are more apt to be experienced by women. A water infection is also known as a urinary tract infection or cystitis, and is defined as an infection of the bladder. One-quarter of all women will experience water infection symptoms at some point in their lives.
Eating less sugar is also a good way to prevent these types of infections. Water infection symptoms are often caused by bacteria that exists normally in your bowel. A urinary tract infection can have several different causes.
Bacteria that enter through the urethra and travel into the bladder cause bladder infections. Normally, the body removes the bacteria by clearing it out during urination. Men also have added protection with the prostate gland, which secretes protective hormones as a safeguard against bacteria.
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible.
Different types of UTI. You can get an infection in the lower (bladder and urethra) or upper (kidney and ureters) part of the urinary tract, and doctors often describe them as lower or upper UTIs. Upper UTIs are potentially more serious than lower UTIs because there is a risk of kidney damage.
Bladder infections are a common cause of cystitis, or inflammation of the bladder. Cystitis is more common for women than it is men. That's because it is easier for a woman's urethra to be infected with bacteria from the anus. Although bladder infections are less common in men, they may be a sign of a more serious condition, including enlarged prostate or tumour in the urinary tract.