When the average amount of hemoglobin per red blood cell is decreased, then the concentration is decreased. So, when the MCV is decreased, the MCHC is decreased. Increases in the MCHC are limited by the amount of hemoglobin that can fit inside a red blood cell. Severe burns or a disorder called hereditary spherocytosis can cause high MCHC values. When MCV values are normal, the red blood cells are normal in size. They are called normocytic. However, a person with normocytic red blood cells can still be anemic when there are too few red blood cells or when other RBC indices are abnormal. This is called normocytic anemia.
The MCHC (mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration) is the mean hemoglobin concentration in all the red blood cells (or is the percentage of the red blood cell that contains hemoglobin) and is usually a calculated value by dividing the hemoglobin by the red blood cell mass (HCT or PCV). Decreased values (hypochromasia). 1  Artifact: 2  MCHC: RBC swelling with storage, hypernatremia, hyperglycemia, other causes of hyperosmolality (see MCV). 3  Pathophysiologic: 4  Regenerative anemia: Immature RBC have less hemoglobin than normal. 5  Iron deficiency anemia: Multiple causes. 6  Portosystemic shunts: The low MCHC is attributable to a relative or 7  ... D
A lab test called the complete blood count, or CBC, measures the amount of hemoglobin in each red blood cell -- the MCH. The MCHC measures the amount of hemoglobin in each red blood cell in relation to the size of the cell. If your hemoglobin is low, your body cells do not receive adequate oxygen. A complete blood count includes an MCH and MCHC. Photo Credit Keith Brofsky/Photodisc/Getty Images. Nutritional deficiencies can cause anemia; if you are anemic, your lab tests show a low MCH, or mean corpuscular hemoglobin, and low MCHC, or mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration. MCH and MCHC are used to diagnose anemia and can help determine what kind of anemia you have
A related value is mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), which is the average concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cells, or in other words, the ratio of hemoglobin mass to the volume of red cells. MCH, MCHC, and MCV are parts of red cell indices (parameters reflecting size and hemoglobin content of red cells) that have traditionally been used to aid in the differential diagnosis of anemia.
Erythrocytes that have a normal size or volume (normal MCV) are called normocytic, When the MCV is high, they are called macrocytic. When the MCV is low, they are termed microcytic. Erythrocytes containing the normal amount of hemoglobin (normal MCHC) are called normochromic. When the MCHC is abnormally low they are called hypochromic, and when the MCHC is abnormally high, hyperchromic. Sample problem: calculate the MCV and the MCHC for a subject with a red blood cell count of 4x106 per cubic mm, a hematocrit of 40% and a hemoglobin concentration of 12 g/dl.
1 Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) is a measurement of the average size of a single red blood cell. 2  Mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) is a calculation of the average amount of hemoglobin inside a single red blood cell. 