Cannabis oil is a thick, sticky, resinous substance made up of cannabinoids, such as THC and CBD, that is extracted from the cannabis plant (Cannabis sativa or Cannabis indica). Cannabis oil is a cannabis based product obtained by separating the resins from cannabis flowers using a solvent extraction process. Cannabis oil can also be known as marijuana oil, Rick Simpson Oil (RSO), Full extract cannbais oil (FECO), hash oil, dabs, shatter, or wax. Cannabis oil is the most concentrated form of the three main cannabis products. That is what makes cannabis oil the most potent.Cannabis Oil produced and sold by dealers can have many contaminants and many times will have minimal amounts or no THC or CBD in them at all.
Experience all the healthful benefits of Full Extract Cannabis Oil (FECO). Through our 100% organic food grade ethyl alcohol refinement process, we are able to extract nearly all components (400+) of the Cannabis plant. The oil is made by adding cannabis to a solvent, in this case 100% organic, medical grade alcohol. After the solvent has extracted the cannabinoids from the plant material the solvent is then evaporated away leaving behind the highly concentrated cannabis oil.
RSO refers to the oil promoted as a cure by cancer sufferer Rick Simpson, it is made by extracting cannabinoids by the use of a solvent, such oils are high in cannabinoid content. Rick Simpson Oil. RSO refers to the oil promoted as a cure by cancer sufferer Rick Simpson, it is made by extracting cannabinoids by the use of a solvent, such oils are high in cannabinoid content. The use of the name Hemp Oil to describe this extraction is confusing to say the least (see below).
The cannabis used for our FECO Oil comes from close and trusted 100% organic growers that share our commitment towards safe, quality and effective medicine. Each batch is made specifically for RX-C members and the strains used will be selected based on the ratios we select. The oil is made by adding cannabis to a solvent, in this case 100% organic, medical grade alcohol. After the solvent has extracted the cannabinoids from the plant material the solvent is then evaporated away leaving behind the highly concentrated cannabis oil.
This is a step by step video on how to make full-extract cannabis oil with food grade alcohol. This is the process used to produce Mykayla’s oil as shown by Mike Mullins of Stony Girl Gardens. Click here to find out more about Brave Mykayla and how to support her fight against leukemia. Print PDF. 
Topical and Muscular Applications. The oil can be used as-is or mixed into a bit of coconut oil or lotion of your choosing and applied as needed. The dermal healing and pain relieving properties of cannabis oil are well documented. The oil is made by adding cannabis to a solvent, in this case 100% organic, medical grade alcohol. After the solvent has extracted the cannabinoids from the plant material the solvent is then evaporated away leaving behind the highly concentrated cannabis oil.
Cannabis oils are highly concentrated extracts, they are usually made by adding cannabis plant material to a solvent, after the solvent has extracted the cannabinoids from the plant material the solvent is then evaporated away leaving behind the extracted concentrated cannabinoid oil. Rick Simpson Oil. RSO refers to the oil promoted as a cure by cancer sufferer Rick Simpson, it is made by extracting cannabinoids by the use of a solvent, such oils are high in cannabinoid content. The use of the name Hemp Oil to describe this extraction is confusing to say the least (see below).
A new concentrate from reliable Sativa Valley has us wondering what to cook. New from Sativa Valley is a line of full extract cannabis oil that is available in both a THC and CBD version. The concentrate is produced using flowers grown in the Sativa Valley collective garden then processed with food-grade alcohol for safety and purity. This new extract really completes the brand, offering a variety of products all with the same quality ingredients. For those unfamiliar with full extract cannabis oil, the best way to medicate with it is by eating it or applying it to the body topically. But be aware, a dose the size of a grain of rice is a great starting point for most patients