Lesson Summary. Totalitarianism is a form of rule in which the government attempts to maintain 'total' control over society, including all aspects of the public and private lives of its citizens. It became a popular subject following World War II and during the peak years of the Cold War. There are several characteristics that are common to totalitarian regimes, including: 1  Rule by a single party. 2  Total control of the military. 3  Total control over means of communication (such as newspapers, propaganda, etc…). 4  Police control with the use of terror as a control tactic.
A form of government that controls every aspect of people's lives, tells the people what to think, & brutally punishes anyone who's a flaw in the system or disagrees with the government. Examples of totalitarian countries are Nazi Germany, Stalin's Russia, North Korea, Maoist China, Saddam's Iraq, & Ayatollah's Iran. 
1. totalitarianism-a form of government in which the ruler is an absolute dictator (not restricted by a constitution or laws or opposition etc.). dictatorship, monocracy, one-man rule, shogunate, Stalinism, tyranny, authoritarianism, Caesarism, despotism, absolutism. 1. a system of highly centralized government in which one political party or group takes control and grants neither recognition nor tolerance to other political groups. 2. autocracy in one of its several varieties. 3. the character or traits of an autocratic or authoritarian individual, party, government, or state.
For other uses, see totalism. Totalitarianism (or totalitarian rule) is a political system where the state recognizes no limits to its authority and strives to regulate every aspect of public and private life wherever feasible. Benito Mussolini. The notion of totalitarianism as a total political power by state was formulated in 1923 by Giovanni Amendola, who described Italian Fascism as a system fundamentally different from conventional dictatorships.
By Tom Head. Definition: Totalitarianism is a system in which the state has, or pretends to have, total control over all entities, including human beings, operating within its jurisdiction. 
Definition of Totalitarianism. The essence of totalitarianism can be found in its very name; it is a form of rule in which the government attempts to maintain 'total' control over society, including all aspects of the public and private lives of its citizens. There are several characteristics that are common to totalitarian regimes, including: 1  Rule by a single party. 2  Total control of the military. 3  Total control over means of communication (such as newspapers, propaganda, etc…). 4  Police control with the use of terror as a control tactic.
totalitarianism. 1. a system of highly centralized government in which one political party or group takes control and grants neither recognition nor tolerance to other political groups. 2. autocracy in one of its several varieties. 3. the character or traits of an autocratic or authoritarian individual, party, government, or state.
Definition of TOTALITARIANISM. 1. : centralized control by an autocratic authority. 2. : the political concept that the citizen should be totally subject to an absolute state authority. ADVERTISEMENT. Learn More About TOTALITARIANISM. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for totalitarianism. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of totalitarianism. Nglish: Translation of totalitarianism for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of totalitarianism for Arabic speakers.
totalitarianism. (noun) A system of centralized government in which the state has total authority over society and manipulates all aspects of culture including the arts, in order to control the private lives and morality of its citizens. Audio Pronunciation: (to·tal·i·tar·ian·ism).
for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Totalitarianism is a form of government control that swept across Europe in the early 20th century. It eventually spread to other parts of the globe but is generally characterized by the major personalities that helped to define totalitarianism. There are several characteristics that are common to totalitarian regimes, including: 1  Rule by a single party. 2  Total control of the military. 3  Total control over means of communication (such as newspapers, propaganda, etc…). 4  Police control with the use of terror as a control tactic.