Quality Assurance. Our bearings are manufactured or rebuilt from virgin Babbitt material. Each bearing is ultrasonically tested to verify the percentage of bonded contact, normally in excess of 95% of surface area. A certificate of bond is recorded with each bearing along with all other critical data. Welcome Welcome. Industrial Babbitt Bearing Services, Inc. was founded on the basic premise that there was a need in American Industry for a specialized Babbitt bearing manufacturer.
Babbitt, also called Babbitt metal or bearing metal, is any of several alloys used for the bearing surface in a plain bearing. The original Babbitt metal was invented in 1839 by Isaac Babbitt in Taunton, Massachusetts, USA. He disclosed one of his alloy recipes but kept others as trade secrets. In the traditional style of a babbitt metal bearing, a cast iron pillow block is assembled as a loose fit around the shaft, with the shaft in approximately its final position. The inner face of the cast iron pillow block is often drilled to form a key to locate the bearing metal as it is cast into place.
Babbitt metal is most commonly used as a thin surface layer in a complex, multi-metal structure, but its original use was as a cast-in-place bulk bearing material. Babbitt metal is characterized by its resistance to galling. In the traditional style of a babbitt metal bearing, a cast iron pillow block is assembled as a loose fit around the shaft, with the shaft in approximately its final position. The inner face of the cast iron pillow block is often drilled to form a key to locate the bearing metal as it is cast into place.
Bearings in an engine are used to support moving mechanical parts and protect those parts from frictional degradation. The heavier and more powerful the engine, the stronger the bearings must be to provide this support and protection. In 1839, a special material called Babbitt metal was developed. Open the bearing case and melt off the old bearing, making sure you melt the retaining grooves and holes, as well. Collect the melted Babbitt in a cast iron lead melting pot, available at welding supply outlets. Scrape remaining Babbitt from the bearing case, grooves and holes and add them to the pot.
Leading the babbitt bearing industry with precision machining technology. Babbitting Service, Inc (BSI) provides manufacturing and repair of babbitt bearings and parts for rotating equipment in all industries around the world. From OEM’s to end users, BSI will produce parts with high quality, confidence, and dedication to your specifications and requirements. 
Babbitt Bearing Co., Inc. of Columbus, OH is a full-service auto gear, wheel bearing, and axle repair shop that has been serving Central Ohio since 1973. We specialize in auto and light truck differentials. 
Babbitt Bearings. Odessa Babbitt Bearing Company is dedicated to producing the finest babbitt bearings possible. We strive to maintain a high standard of customer satisfaction from the smallest order to the largest. In business since 1963, OBBCO has grown from a two person operation into one of the leading suppliers for aftermarket babbitt metal bearing products.
American Babbitt Bearing has been in business more than 20 years providing our customers with the highest level of quality products that they expect and deserve. 
For over 60 years Babbitt Bearing Company has been a leader in precision machine work, grinding, thermal flame spray and hard chrome plating. bbc provides manufacturing and repair services to industries from aerospace, solar equipment manufacture, semiconductor and more…. 