Although most deserts, such as the Sahara of North Africa and the deserts of the southwestern U.S., Mexico, and Australia, occur at low latitudes, another kind of desert, cold deserts, occur in the basin and range area of Utah and Nevada and in parts of western Asia. 
Another example of a cold desert in Utah is the Great Basin area. The temperature ranges in cold desert biomes are extreme. The Great Basin area is one of the few deserts on the planet where the temperature often falls below freezing. It is cold enough in the Great Basin desert to snow in the winter. The Great Basin Desert in Utah has long periods of cold weather and somewhat higher precipitation than other deserts (10-20 inches).
The Climate In The Desert. To start off with, I would like to say that there are 4 different types of deserts. There are the hot and dry desert, the semiarid desert, the coastal desert, and the cold desert. The Hot Desert. This desert's average temperature ranges from 64 to 77 degrees Fahrenheit. The extreme temperature is 110.3 to 120 degrees Fahrenheit. The sand's average temperature is 64 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Cold deserts are often sub-divided into Cold and Coastal types. Cold Desert Ecosystems. Cold deserts are found in the Antarctic, Greenland, Northern and Western China, Turkestan, Iran and the Nearctic area. Many nomads have settled on farms in the Gobi Desert and it was crossed as early as the 13th century by Genghis Khan. Ground cover such as lichens, are found in areas such as Torgerson Island, Antarctica and cover much of the ground, whereas in other areas the plants are found quite apart from each other. Some examples of plants found in cold deserts include grasses, shadscale and camel’s thorn.
Cold Deserts of the World. T he main form of precipitation in a cold desert is snow or fog. Cold Deserts of the World Name Location Size Physical Features Some Plants & Animals Special Facts Atacama Coasts of Peru and Chile 54,000 mi2 140,000 km2 Covered by sand dunes and pebbles. 
A cold desert climate is typically found in temperate zones, almost always in the rain shadow of high mountains which restrict precipitation from the westerly winds, or in the case of Central Asia, from the monsoon. The Gobi desert in Mongolia is a classic example of a region with a cold desert climate. The Ladakh region, lying in the Great Himalayas in India also has a cold desert climate. Arctic and Antarctic regions also receive very little precipitation during the year, owing to the exceptionally cold dry air, however, both of them are generally classified as having polar climates.
A cold desert is a desert that has snow in the winter instead of just dropping a few degrees in temperature like they would in a Hot and Dry Desert. It never gets warm enough for plants to grow. Just maybe a few grasses and mosses. The animals in Cold Deserts also have to burrow but in this case to keep warm, not cool. The precipitation in Hot and Dry Deserts and the precipitation in Cold Deserts is different. Hot and Dry Deserts usually have very little rainfall and/or concentrated rainfall in short periods between long rainless periods. This averages out to under 15 cm a year
Hot vs Cold Deserts. Hot and cold are the two main ways of classifying the deserts based on the temperature. An obvious difference between the hot and cold deserts could be identified in terms of temperature, yet there are many other physical and interesting biological characteristics about these ecosystems. 
LOCATION: Although few animals and plants are adapted to the extremely dry desert life, the desert is a vital biome. The desert is important because it covers about a fifth of the earth's surface! There are both hot and cold deserts. Antarctica is the largest desert in the world, while the Sahara in Africa is the largest of the hot deserts. There are also deserts close to Santa Barbara, such as the Mojave the Colorado Desert which encompass parts of Southern California