You contest the executor named in the petition by filing an objection on the basis of anticipated failure of the executor's ability to perform fiduciary duty. You would have t … o file the appropriate objection with the court where the petition for probate of the will was filed. If not, the court will issue Letters Testamentary to you and you will have the authority to settle the estate as the executor according to the provisions in the will and the state probate laws, under the supervision of the court.
Illinois Probate Court Process to Become Appointed Executor of the Estate. While some may believe that being named as the Executor in a Will gives them full power to handle an Estate, the named Executor must first be appointed by a Court. In order to obtain this appointment, the named Executor must follow a few steps. Thus, while the typical Executor will not have to obtain a surety bond to serve as the representative of a Probate Estate, an out-of-state Executor may be required to do so. However, this requirement is rarely enforced in real practice.
You file the will with the probate court with a petition asking that the will be allowed and that you be appointed the executor. If there is a named executor in the will who has died or who does not want to serve you should provide proof to the court. 2 people found this useful. If not, the court will issue Letters Testamentary to you and you will have the authority to settle the estate as the executor according to the provisions in the will and the state probate laws, under the supervision of
An executor who is appointed by the court has the same duties as one who is named in a will, according to the Hampshire County, Massachusetts Probate Court. Court Appointment. When no executor is named, the executor cannot be determined or the executor is unable or unwilling to serve, the probate court will appoint someone to be the executor. Usually, the court will allow any interested person to offer to serve as executor and will choose from those who volunteer.
If you are seeking to be appointed as a fiduciary under the supervision of the Davidson County Probate Court (i.e., executor, administrator, conservator, guardian or trustee), then the answer to this question is yes - - you must be represented by legal counsel. 
With any other estate, if a court is involved but the person who was the court-appointed representative is no longer serving in that capacity, you will have a decree of distribution or court-approved final account. That decree or final account may. To distribute the paper bonds in an estate (distribute specific bonds to specific people), as the court-appointed representative, follow these steps: 1  Fill out form PD F 1455 (download or order). 2  On that form, you indicate how the bonds are to be distributed among the people who are entitled to the estate's bonds.
1 Sign the form (indicating you are the estate's court-appointed representative) in the presence of, and have your signature certified by, a certifying official (as explained on the form). 2  Have the people who are entitled to the bonds indicate what they want to do with their bonds. To distribute the paper bonds in an estate (distribute specific bonds to specific people), as the court-appointed representative, follow these steps: 1  Fill out form PD F 1455 (download or order). 2  On that form, you indicate how the bonds are to be distributed among the people who are entitled to the estate's bonds.
1 Evidence that the court appointed you as the estate's representative. 2  The copy of the court document has to be certified to be true and correct by the clerk of the court and include the clerk's statement that the appointment is still in full force and effect. To distribute the paper bonds in an estate (distribute specific bonds to specific people), as the court-appointed representative, follow these steps: 1  Fill out form PD F 1455 (download or order). 2  On that form, you indicate how the bonds are to be distributed among the people who are entitled to the estate's bonds.
An executor is someone named in a will, or appointed by the court, who is given the legal responsibility to take care of a deceased person's remaining financial obligations. This means taking care of everything from disposing of property to paying bills and taxes. 
Defining Appointment. A person must be formally appointed by a probate court to administer a decedent's estate. A party generally nominates a proposed executor in her will. A probate judge then formally appoints the nominee as executor by court order. Procedure for Appointments. A person nominated by a will for an executorship must file a petition with the probate court in the county where the decedent resided. The decedent's original will and a fee to the court must be submitted with the petition. Filing fees generally run in the $150 range.