Today, Egyptians carry names that have Egyptian, Arabic, Turkish, Greek origins (especially Coptic ones) among others. The concept of a surname is lacking in Egypt. Rather, Egyptians tend to carry their father's name as their first middle name, and stop at the 2nd or 3rd first name, which thus becomes one's surname. 1 The Greek name is derived from Late Egyptian Hikuptah  Memphis , a corruption of the earlier Egyptian name Hat-ka-Ptah (ḥwt-k3-ptḥ), meaning home of the ka (soul) of Ptah, the name of a temple to the god Ptah at Memphis.
from GizaPyramid.com Website. We all recognize the word Egypt as the name of a modern country in North Africa, not a part of the Middle East as is commonly misperceived. Most Egyptologists and lay people know that Egypt is derived from the Greek word Aegyptos. But few have ever traced the origin of this word. Aegyptos is a contraction of the Greek term Hi-Gi-Ptos. Hi-Gi-Ptos was a Greek transliteration of the ancient term Het-Ka-Ptah
Egypt is a country in North Africa, on the Mediterranean Sea, and is among the oldest civilizations on earth. The name 'Egypt' comes from the Greek Aegyptos which was the Greek pronunciation of the Egyptian name 'Hwt-Ka-Ptah' (which means House of the Spirit of Ptah, who was a very early God of the Ancient Egyptians). In the early Old Kingdom, Egypt was simply known as 'Kemet' which means 'Black Land' so named for the rich, dark soil along the Nile River where the first settlements began. Later, the country was known simply as Misr which means 'country', a name still in use by Egyptians for their nation in the present day.
Misr is an Arabic name simply meaning country, and part of the tradition of this term in as a name for Egypt comes from the Islamic Quran. The term can also mean fortress, or castellated , which refers to the natural protective boarders of Egypt which protected the country from invaders. In the early period of Egypt, during the Old Kingdom, Egypt was referred to as Kemet (Kermit), or simply Kmt, which means the Black land. They called themselves remetch en Kermet, which means the People of the Black Land. The term refers to the rich soil found in the Nile Valley and Delta.
The Origin of the Word, Egypt by Nermin Sami and Jimmy Dunn. Over the millenniums, Egypt has had many names in many different languages. Today, its official name is Junhuriyah Misr al-Arabiyah, which in English means the Arab Republic of Egypt. Egyptians themselves refer to Egypt as Misr, though this can also be a name for Cairo. In the early period of Egypt, during the Old Kingdom, Egypt was referred to as Kemet (Kermit), or simply Kmt, which means the Black land. They called themselves remetch en Kermet, which means the People of the Black Land. The term refers to the rich soil found in the Nile Valley and Delta.
The name Egypt is believed to have come from the original name of Egypt's ancient capital Memphis, Hout ka-Ptah, meaning Castle of the ka of Ptah.. This name was often us … ed even for the country as a whole. The name came to be shortened and slightly transformed. Well, Egypt got its name by a woman named Egypt and thst lady was very popular that is why they named Egypt Egypt. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Nicola. 430,002 Contributions. M.A. in English Language and a lover of books.
The name Egypt is believed to have come from the original name of Egypt's ancient capital Memphis, Hout ka-Ptah, meaning Castle of the ka of Ptah.. Actually Egypt did have an original name Kemet, Ke-meaning charcol and met-meaning land of.
As in modern Egypt, this was both a name for the administrative center of Egypt, what we call Memphis today, as well as the name of the country as a whole. Egypt, as many people of the world refer to the country today, is a derivative of this ancient name. In the early period of Egypt, during the Old Kingdom, Egypt was referred to as Kemet (Kermit), or simply Kmt, which means the Black land. They called themselves remetch en Kermet, which means the People of the Black Land. The term refers to the rich soil found in the Nile Valley and Delta.
The word Egypt is the Greek name for the country and is a reference to a mythical Greek hero Aegyptus. The Kemetians called themselves simply, the people. This brings up some rather annoying problems. The fact is that much of the ancient history available to us, was written by Europeans. 