Today, Turtles candies come in all sizes, shapes and recipes, some even shaped like a turtle, with modern mold-making techniques, but the originals were produced by candy dippers on a rectangular marble 'board', similar in size to a contemporary kitchen cutting board. In 1923, the stores dropped the Johnson name and assumed the name DeMet's, passing along the trademark. Nestle owned the brand in the USA for a time, but sold it to Brynwood Partners ' DeMet's Candy Company in 2007. In 2013, Brynwood sold the company to Yıldız Holding.
Chocolate Nut Recipes. These recipes feature the classic combination of chocolate and nuts. So if you're looking for chocolate candy with peanuts, pecans, walnuts, almonds, or hazelnuts, you've come to the right place. 
Turtle Cups are a fun variation on the traditional Turtle candy made of pecans, caramel and chocolate. This recipe for Turtle Cups produces a delicious chocolate, caramel, and pecan candy. Bacon Caramels. Share. Bacon Turtles Candy are traditional turtles with a twist! Clusters of toasted pecans are topped with chewy caramel, crispy bacon, rich chocolate, and a sprinkling of sea salt.
Turtles brand candy were developed by Johnson’s Candy Company (which became DeMet’s Candy Company in 1923) in 1918, after a salesman came into the commissary’s dipping room and showed a candy to one of the dippers, who pointed out that the candy looked like a turtle. In 1923, the stores dropped the Johnson name and assumed the name DeMet's, passing along the trademark. Nestle owned the brand in the USA for a time, but sold it to Brynwood Partners ' DeMet's Candy Company in 2007. In 2013, Brynwood sold the company to Yıldız Holding.
One of those time-tested, made-in-the-USA recipes is our DeMet’s TURTLES ® Caramel Nut Clusters—the signature candy that started it all. Our FLIPZ ® Chocolate Covered Pretzels, a new classic, has taken the salty-sweet snack world by storm. Visit Turtles® Site. DeMet’s TURTLES® Caramel Nut Clusters The sweet treat that started it all, our original TURTLES ® Caramel Nut Clusters feature premium pecans and creamy caramel hiding beneath a decadent chocolate shell.
Rich, smooth caramel, made from a secret recipe passed down from generations, is combined with hand-roasted premium nuts and topped with luscious chocolate. Phillips Candy House lovingly produces chocolate turtles in milk, deep dark or white chocolate varieties with pecans, cashews or almonds. Our best selling chocolate turtles are a real crowd pleaser! Chocolate turtles can be easily shipped year-round and make a great chocolate gift. Make a big impression and send a chocolate turtle gift basket to family, friends and co-workers. Phillips Candy House, Boston's oldest chocolatier, offers you our award-winning chocolate turtles made exactly as they were 80 years ago-all by hand, one at a time and in small batches.