Projection is a psychological defense mechanism in which a person attributes his or her own characteristics to another person. For example, a hostile husband might attribute hostility to his wife and argue that she has an anger management problem. 1 Neurotic Projection – This is the most common variety of projection and most clearly meets the definition of defense mechanism. 2  In this variety of projection, a person attributes feelings, motives, or attitudes they find unacceptable in themselves to someone else.
A prominent precursor in the formulation of the projection principle was Giambattista Vico, and an early formulation of it is found in ancient Greek writer Xenophanes, which observed that the gods of Ethiopians were inevitably black with flat noses while those of the Thracians were blond with blue eyes.. Projection may help a fragile ego reduce anxiety, but at the cost of a certain dissociation, as in dissociative identity disorder. In extreme cases, an individual's personality may end up becoming critically depleted.
somatotopical projection. an arrangement by which a picture of the body is represented on a surface, such as projection onto the cerebral cortex of the topography of the body from which the efferent nerve impulses depart or to which afferent impulses come. 
Astral projection (or astral travel) is an interpretation of an out-of-body experience (OBE) that assumes the existence of an  astral body  separate from the physical body and capable of travelling outside it. 
Psychological projection is a form of defense mechanism in which someone attributes thoughts, feelings, and ideas which are perceived as undesirable to someone else. The concept of projection was developed by Dr. Sigmund Freud, a noted figure in the field of psychology. Dr. Freud believed that people used psychological projection to reduce their own stress or feelings of guilt, thus protecting themselves psychologically.
Psychological projection, also known as blame shifting, is a theory in psychology in which humans defend themselves against unpleasant impulses by denying their existence in themselves, while attributing them to others. Projection may help a fragile ego reduce anxiety, but at the cost of a certain dissociation, as in dissociative identity disorder. In extreme cases, an individual's personality may end up becoming critically depleted.
A psychoanalytical theory, projection is the process whereby one subject believes they see attributes (both good and bad) in another. The theory views this tendency as a defense mechanism whereby unenviable or unpleasant traits, impulses or ideas are attributed to another. 
Share this article: Projection Mapping uses everyday video projectors, but instead of projecting on a flat screen (e.g. to display a PowerPoint), light is mapped onto any surface, turning common objects of any 3D shape into interactive displays. Projection mapping can be used for advertising, live concerts, theater, gaming, computing, decoration and anything else you can think of. Specialized software or just some elbow grease can be used to align the virtual content and the physical objects.
Commonly, a map projection is a systematic transformation of the latitudes and longitudes of locations on the surface of a sphere or an ellipsoid into locations on a plane. Map projections are necessary for creating maps. All map projections distort the surface in some fashion. Since any map projection is a representation of one of those surfaces on a plane, all map projections distort. Every distinct map projection distorts in a distinct way. The study of map projections is the characterization of these distortions.
Projection (Psychological). 1) An unconscious self-defence mechanism characterised by a person unconsciously attributing their own issues onto someone or something else as a form of delusion and denial. Projection (Psychological). 1) Believing that someone else does not like you when it is indeed you that does not like them. By projecting this onto another you ascribe the negativity of the thoughts/feelings onto them so your ego does not have to admit the deficiency of your own thought processes.