Beta blockers are a class of drugs most commonly used to treat heart conditions, although they are useful in the treatment of a variety of other conditions including glaucoma, migraines, and anxiety. 
Beta blockers are basically medications used to treat certain conditions such as high blood pressure, myocardial infarction, abnormal heart rhythms, overactive thyroid symptoms, migraines and glaucoma. They are commonly referred to as beta-blockers though their full name is beta-adrenoceptor. Due to the effect they have on the heart cells, in addition to anxiety, that's why they are also used to treat heart failure, reduce the risk of heart attacks, control any abnormal heart rhythm, and prevent angina pains and to lower blood pressure.
How Beta Blockers Can INCREASE Anxiety. Beta blockers are a class of drugs prescribed for a host of different treatments. While they may be used to treat heart disease, glaucoma, and hypertension, many doctors prescribe beta blockers for those with anxiety-especially those with severe anxiety and anxiety attacks. Many people have reported using beta blockers with some success. Beta blockers have their place as an anxiety treatment, but beta blockers also have several dangers that make them a risky choice for regular use. Always consult a doctor before taking any beta blocker, and make sure that you keep your doctor informed of any side effects.
Types of beta blockers used specifically for anxiety treatment include propranolol, atenolol and pindolo. Anxiety sufferers who choose to use beta blockers can opt for a single dosage for isolated incidents or regular dosage if the anxiety is chronic. Beta blockers are prescribed to treat heart problems, anxiety such as performance anxiety or stage fright, and high blood pressure. They work...
Beta blockers, also known as beta-adrenergic blocking agents, are medications that reduce your blood pressure. Beta blockers work by blocking the effects of the hormone epinephrine, also known as adrenaline. When you take beta blockers, the heart beats more slowly and with less force, thereby reducing blood pressure. 
Beta blockers can be helpful in the treatment of the physical symptoms of anxiety, especially social anxiety. Physicians prescribe them to control rapid heartbeat, shaking, trembling, and blushing in anxious situations for several hours. Possible Benefits. Very safe for most patients. Used for short-term relief of social phobia. May reduce some peripheral symptoms of anxiety, such as tachycardia and sweating, and general tension, can help control symptoms of stage fright and public-speaking fears, has few side effects. Possible Disadvantages. See disadvantages-Beta-Blockers, above.
Beta blockers are medications that are prescribed to treat a variety of disorders. The most common conditions where beta blockers are used are high blood pressure, glaucoma and migraines; however, beta blockers can also be used as a treatment for anxiety. Since beta blockers have an interaction with blood pressure, they can help reduce the symptoms associated with anxiety. Beta blockers are prescribed to treat heart problems, anxiety such as performance anxiety or stage fright, and high blood pressure. They work...
And beta blockers tend to be used most frequently in situations where there is performance anxiety or public speaking anxiety situation and they work primarily by actually blocking the physical manifestations of anxiety, so they have very little effect on the emotional sense of anxiety. Answer: Beta blockers are a family of medicines that are actually used in a variety of fields of medicine, including psychiatry. In fact they're most frequently used as medications to treat high blood pressure.
Beta-Blockers. Beta blockers can be helpful in the treatment of the physical symptoms of anxiety, especially social anxiety. Physicians prescribe them to control rapid heartbeat, shaking, trembling, and blushing in anxious situations for several hours. Possible Benefits. Very safe for most patients. Few side effects. Used for short-term relief of social anxiety. May reduce some peripheral symptoms of anxiety, such as tachycardia and sweating, and general tension, can help control symptoms of stage fright and public-speaking fears, has few side effects. Possible Disadvantages. See disadvantages-Beta-Blockers, above.
Often social anxiety symptoms are so strong that beta blockers, while helpful, cannot reduce enough of the symptoms to provide relief. Because they can lower blood pressure and slow heart rate, people diagnosed with low blood pressure or heart conditions may not be able to take them. Used for short-term relief of social anxiety. May reduce some peripheral symptoms of anxiety, such as tachycardia and sweating, and general tension, can help control symptoms of stage fright and public-speaking fears, has few side effects. Possible Disadvantages. See disadvantages-Beta-Blockers, above.