*Appropriate Foods For a Carb Refeed. During your carb refeed, you should aim for around 1G of protein per Pound of body weight, keeping your sources of fat to a minimum, so you are only taking the fats that are in your proteins and carbs. HEY HEY HEY this is the fun part – CARBS! Yes, lots and lots and lots of carbs.
However, if you are in the early periods of dieting are still above 10% body fat (guys) or 20% (girls), start with one refeed day every 2 weeks and see how your body responds. After determining how often you should reefed, it is vital to set a caloric goal for each refeed.
The Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommends that carbohydrates make up 45 to 65 percent of your total daily calories. So, if you get 2,000 calories a day, between 900 and 1,300 calories should be from carbohydrates. That translates to between 225 and 325 grams of carbohydrates a day. You can find the carbohydrate content of packaged foods on the Nutrition Facts label.
How much is a 20-50% increase in Carbs. For instance, if I'm eating 189,8 carbs on a normal day-to-day basis and want to have a refeed day with a 50% increase in carbs; What is the total of carbs I will be consuming in grams? How do I even calculate that? Sorry, not math savvy.
Now in terms of your macros, here is what you should be eating on your refeed day: 1  About 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight. 2  As little fat as possible – really try to keep it under 40-50 grams. 3  Everything else coming from carbohydrates, so as to meet the calorie targets.
No. You shouldn't eat junk at all, including refeed days. When cutting, your refeed days are crucial. It's not about refeeding your body on calories, it's about refeeding it with more carbs than on the other 5-6 days of the week.
Usually, a refeed should consist of 20-50% more calories than required for maintenance for 12 hours to two days. The higher you decide to bring your calories, the shorter period of time you will want to refeed for.
I do a carb refeed every 7 to 10 days. My food on that day mainly consists of lean protein and a bunch of fruit with some sweet potatoes thrown in. I try to hit around 275 grams of carbs. It's very tough on all primal food though...unless you can find massive ripe plantains.
When considering the types of foods you should be consuming on a refeed day, it is recommended to opt for those foods that are high in carbohydrates and moderate in protein (which is different from several high-protein diets like the Dukan Diet).