The name Beatty or Beattie, others think, arose in Ireland from Betagh, a surname meaning hospitaller. A majority of people named Beatty or Beattie in Ireland are the descendants of Scots who came over to Ulster in the seventeenth century. In the rest of Ireland, the name Biadhtach (Betagh; public victualler ) was changed to Beatty or Beattie. In Scotland, the Beatties were a reiver clan in the Langholm area of Eskdale. George MacDonald Fraser has written about the reiving clans in The Steel Bonnets: The Story of the Anglo-Scottish Border Reivers.
Beattie is common in counties Antrim and Down, whilst Beatty is more common in counties Armagh and Tyrone. In Fermanagh in 1962, Beatty was the fifteenth most common name and was recorded as synonymous with the names Betty and MacCaffrey (or McCaffrey). In the rest of Ireland, the name Biadhtach (Betagh; public victualler ) was changed to Beatty or Beattie. In Scotland, the Beatties were a reiver clan in the Langholm area of Eskdale. George MacDonald Fraser has written about the reiving clans in The Steel Bonnets: The Story of the Anglo-Scottish Border Reivers.
Latin Meaning: The name Beatty is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Beatty is: F: Ameaning bringer of joy. In the Divine Comedy, Beatrice was Dante's guide through Paradise, perhaps inspired by Beatrice Portinari who was Dante's earliest love. Gaelic Meaning: The name Beatty is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Beatty is: Blesses. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. 
Beattie. Beattie and Beatty are names of Scottish and Irish origin. In the Scottish case these names are diminutives or pet forms of the Bartholomew name that was popular since the time of the Crusades. Beattie became a well-known Border name, found on both the Scottish and English sides. The name today is found mainly in south Antrim and north Down. Betagh had become an Irish surname in county Meath by the 16th century and then spread to neighboring counties. The 19th century surgeon Thomas Edward Beatty, whose mother was a Betagh, came from a Cavan family.
Beatty is a surname of Scottish and Irish origin. In the Scottish case, some have thought that it is derived from the name Bartholomew, which was often shortened to Bate or Baty. Male descendants were then often called Beatty, or similar derivations like Beattie or Beatey. In the rest of Ireland, the name Biadhtach (Betagh; public victualler ) was changed to Beatty or Beattie. In Scotland, the Beatties were a reiver clan in the Langholm area of Eskdale. George MacDonald Fraser has written about the reiving clans in The Steel Bonnets: The Story of the Anglo-Scottish Border Reivers.
The surname of BEATTIE was a well known Scottish border surname, a baptismal name 'the son of Bate or Baty' a pet form of Bartholomew, the son of a twin. The name in Ireland is principally found in Ulster where it is often spelt Beatty. The name in Irish is Betagh (Biadhtach). Ireland was one of the earliest countries to evolve a system of hereditary surnames. They came into being fairly generally in the 11th century, and indeed a few were formed before the year 1000. 
The name Beatty also arose in Ireland from the Gaelic occupational name betagh. victualler. The Beattie spelling is preferred in the UK, both Beatty and Beattie occur in Ireland (Beattie shows up in Antrim and county Down, Beatty in Armagh, Tyrone and Fermanagh). The name today is found mainly in south Antrim and north Down. Betagh had become an Irish surname in county Meath by the 16th century and then spread to neighboring counties. The 19th century surgeon Thomas Edward Beatty, whose mother was a Betagh, came from a Cavan family.
Meaning of Beatty. Gaelic name. In Gaelic, the name Beatty means-Blesses.. Other origins for the name Beatty include-Gaelic, Latin-American.The name Beatty is most often used as a boy name or male name. Gaelic Name Meaning-Blesses. Origin-Gaelic.