While rain water is usually pure enough for human consumption, distilled water is the more pure of the two, because through the process of distillation, most impurities are le … ft behind. 5 people found this useful. Carole Cummings.
Most rain water is safe to drink. Actually, rain water is the water supply for much of the world's population. The levels of pollution, pollen, mold, and other contaminants are low -- possibly lower than your public drinking water supply.
The rain water would be purified like any other water source that is distilled. The impurities are left behind. The water would b … e pure and healthier than tap water. Distilled water is lacking in minerals so if spring water is available, you might want to drink a pure water with minerals in it.
No.Distilled water has been boiled into a vapor, which leaves impurities behind, then re-condensed into a liquid. Rain water has been contaminated with any pollution in the air that dissolves into it.
Rain water contains very low amounts of salts and other nitrates but it takes in any gas present in air. That is why acid rain occurs when the air is polluted. The air contains oxygen so people recommend the rain to be consumable as it has lots of oxygen contents in them.
Well, sort of. It is distilled in the way that it's evaporated and then condensed again. But usually it manages to pick up a bit of contaminants on its way through the atmosphere, so it isn't as clean as industrially distilled water.
Distilled water, or pure water onl … y contains H2O molecules, which are neutral. Rainwater on the other hand also contains other materials such as salt, which in water falls apart into positive and negative ions. These are serviceable charge carriers, and therefore rainwater can conduct electricity.
Three reasons why rain water is not distilled. 1. Distilled water is made by boiling the water. Rain in clouds rises from the earth due to condensation but the lakes and rivers are certainly never boiled by the sun. 2. Distilled water is pure water, nothing else in it.