Best Answer: It should take a few days, but it really depends on how the county has things set up, how busy the guy who searches is, and there could be issues on the title they're trying to resolve. The lender will follow up on this, but you can nag them a little. They may be asking the seller for proof that they paid an old roofing bill from 10 years ago or something else. But if someone asked me how long they normally take I would say that in Texas it takes about 10 days to two weeks.
I accepted an offer on my house this Monday. The couple who are buying it are not in a chain and neither am I. I wanted to know if I would be in my new house before christmas. My solictior has said it will probably take only 6 weeks.
Lorraine's profile. In most cases the conveyancing for the purchase of a home will take between six and eight weeks. But it can be much less, or a lot longer, depending on many circumstances. Seller looking for another property. Many people selling a home so that they can buy another one do not start looking for somewhere to buy until they have found a buyer. There will then be a delay while they find a suitable property and sort out a mortgage.
If the house you're buying is vacant then this will happen relatively quickly. If the people you are buying from are buying another house, then the chain grows and grows and leaves potential for problems/delays. All in all I would say it took me 3 months from start to finish. My only nightmare was estate agents, they don't earn their money. You have to chase them up so much it becomes a real pain.
Typically, depending on how busy a title company is, it takes from one week to two to get the actual preliminary title report. However, this can vary depending on the circumstances. Short sales, if done right, will have the report on file when the house is being offered on the market. In our area, you can usually close in 20 to 30 days and I would plan on this, even without a loan. A title search, inspection and survey can usually be done within 10 days or so. 0 votes • Thank • Flag • Link • Tue Oct 19, 2010.
6. A property can be on the market for a number of months and in some cases years. This is why a large percentage of sellers do not start looking for a new property until theirs is under offer. This process can take a long time and if they need to arrange for mortgage finance can delay it even further. The average time it takes for the conveyancing work to be carried out on a property purchase is around 6 to 8 weeks. This can change a lot depending on the circumstance of the transaction. For leasehold property it generally takes longer than a freehold property
I work for a title company. It all depends on how much work is involved on the search and how busy the title company is. When we do searches we go back to the government land grants in the 1800's to start our search. They may be asking the seller for proof that they paid an old roofing bill from 10 years ago or something else. But if someone asked me how long they normally take I would say that in Texas it takes about 10 days to two weeks.
Title searchs depending on where you live and the property can take up to a few weeks if there have been several owners or simply if the searcher is very busy. Be patient and wait until it comes back to start before you start panicking. Source(s): mortgage broker, former real estate paralegal. lepr0kan · 8 years ago. They may be asking the seller for proof that they paid an old roofing bill from 10 years ago or something else. But if someone asked me how long they normally take I would say that in Texas it takes about 10 days to two weeks.
How Long Does House Conveyancing Take. The average time it takes for the conveyancing work to be carried out on a property purchase is around 6 to 8 weeks. This can change a lot depending on the circumstance of the transaction. For leasehold property it generally takes longer than a freehold property