Conjunctions Conjunctions are structure-class words that join together grammatical structures. The most common are the coordinating (or coordinate) conjunctions and, but, or, yet, nor, for, and so. It is important to realise that coordinating conjunctions join grammatical structures of similar form. Determiners A determiner is a structure-class word that precedes and modifies a noun. Prototypical examples are: the definite article: the the indefinite article: a/an Previous students have brought to my attention that many teachers teach that the articles are adjectives. You can see why from the above definition.
struc•ture. 1. the manner in which something is constructed. 2. the manner in which the elements of anything are organized or interrelated: the structure of a poem; the structure of protein. 3. something constructed, as a building or bridge. 4. anything composed of organized or interrelated elements. 5. the construction and arrangement of body parts, tissues, or organs. 6. 
Conjunctions are structure-class words that join together grammatical structures. The most common are the coordinating (or coordinate) conjunctions and, but, or, yet, nor, for, and so. It is important to realise that coordinating conjunctions join grammatical structures of similar form. Consider the following sentences. A clause is a grammatical structure that requires a subject noun phrase and a verb. We will study this structure in greater detail later. Complex sentences are sentences in which structure class words join an independent clause with a dependent clause (the clause introduced by the structure-class word).
Word Root of STRUCTURE. The Latin word struere, meaning “ to build, ” and its form structus give us the root struct. Words from the Latin struere have something to do with building. A struct ure is something that was built, such as a house. To con struct is to build by combining parts together. 
If you are just starting French, you don't need to distinguish among nouns, adjectives, prepositions, etc. What is interesting about structure words and content words is that each group makes up almost exactly 50% of any text. Try counting the words in the Phantom of the Opera texts above, or in any other. To practice these words, go over the text several times, working out its meaning, and getting used to the structure words.
Morphology [Top]. Morphology is the study of the structure and form of words in language or a language, including inflection, derivation, and the formation of compounds. At the basic level, words are made of morphemes.. These are the smallest units of meaning: roots and affixes (prefixes and suffixes). We can study the structure of language in a variety of ways.
In some cases, structure-class words function in more than one capacity, and, in these cases functional tests can help you determine which part of speech the word is functioning as in the sentence. Determiners A determiner is a structure-class word that precedes and modifies a noun. Prototypical examples are: the definite article: the the indefinite article: a/an Previous students have brought to my attention that many teachers teach that the articles are adjectives. You can see why from the above definition.
English Language. Word Structure and Meaning. The way in which a word is constructed, the elements of which it is made, is an important building block in our understanding of our language. Although it is often easy to refer to vocabulary, which is a word and its meaning, it is also important to consider the construction of a word, its morphemes, affixes and inflexions. Syntax. The green sports car is an example of a deconstructed sentence.
Complex sentences are sentences in which structure class words join an independent clause with a dependent clause (the clause introduced by the structure-class word). One type of dependent clause is a subordinate clause, which is introduced by a subordinating conjunction. Determiners A determiner is a structure-class word that precedes and modifies a noun. Prototypical examples are: the definite article: the the indefinite article: a/an Previous students have brought to my attention that many teachers teach that the articles are adjectives. You can see why from the above definition.