Chromosome is an organized structure in cells containing a long, coiled, and single strand of DNA with some associated proteins. A chromosome is a long DNA strand or molecule that includes a number of genes, regulatory elements, and nucleotide sequences.
DNA is the chemical that chromosomes and genes are made of. DNA itself is made up of four simple chemical units that are abbreviated as A, G, C, and T. These letters are used to form three letter words that cells can read. A chromosome is simply a very long piece of DNA that cells can easily copy.
One set is inherited from the father, and one set is inherited from the mother. A DNA is a sort of a bio molecule. The entire DNA in cells can be found in individual pieces that are called chromosomes. The main difference between DNA and chromosome is regarding the role of genes. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid. The DNA is basically made up of cytosine, adenine, thymine and guanine. When you arrange these four bases to create a particular segment, it is called a gene.
A Gene is a particular section of the chromosome's DNA string. There are many such sections on the DNA string-thus it contains (also calls 'codes') many genes-in humans between 500 and 4500 depending on what chromosome. One gene contains information for producing one particular protein.
The difference between DNA and a chromosome has to deal with an intermediary-genes. DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid, which is a nucleic acid. It is made up of four bases-adenine, cytosine, guanine and thymine. When these four bases are arranged in a segment, it is called a gene.
A gene is a stretch of DNA on a chromosome that has the instructions for making a protein. Each chromosome has many genes with humans having over 22,000 genes in all. A gene's instructions for a protein are written in the three letter code I referred to before.
A chromosome is a structure that is made of a chemical known as deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA as well as protein. Chromosomes are found in the nucleus of cells. Chromosomes contain many genes. A gene is a molecular unit of heredity.
Chromosomes are organized structures of DNA and proteins that are found in cells. A chromosome is a singular piece of DNA, which contains many genes, regulatory elements and other nucleotide sequences. Chromosomes also contain DNA-bound proteins, which control its functions.