So some of you guys may have seen my previous tutorial on how to spraypaint a jeep using krylon paint and make a zombie assault vehicle, well I'm back and pleased to present you guys with a new tutorial on how to use tractor and implement paint for a good budget paintjob that will hold up much better. All you lack is a set of numbers on each front fender, and a name across the tailgate and it will look like a US Navy Ship LOL. Great Ible, and a great paint job! Ha I thought about it, but I actually sold the jeep about 2 months ago to fund the purchase of a 4runner.
The durable, heavy-duty alkyd enamel is specially formulated for excellent adhesion, and resistance to weathering and corrosion. It can be applied with brush, or spray, and dries to a high gloss finish. Use it on iron, steel, aluminum, and properly primed galvanized metal. 
In case anyone is wondering this was the original instructable on how to spray paint the truck. http://www.instructables.com/id/Ho-to-Spray-Paint-your-jeep-and-make-an-assault-ve/. So here is the Jeep in question that was repainted using this method when it was still rocking the krylon italian olive paint. As you can see in the forth and final picture, the jeep barely drove back home in one piece. All you lack is a set of numbers on each front fender, and a name across the tailgate and it will look like a US Navy Ship LOL. Great Ible, and a great paint job! Ha I thought about it, but I actually sold the jeep about 2 months ago to fund the purchase of a 4runner.
They explained to me the prossess of how to apply these paints. To start you need a gravity feed gun with a # 11 tip for the primer and a # 14/15 tip for the paint. This will be the tricky part for all of you old timers like me. You don't spray this paint at high volumes 30/40 PSI. you spray this at 14/18 psi. Re: TRACTOR SUPPLY PAINT in reply to mtf, 11-16-2013 16:56:33. Any type of enamel primer takes several days to dry. In the middle of the summer it would take 3-4 days for enamel primer to be dry enough to wet sand.
To all of you asking about the tractor supply paint. The paint is only sold by them. They have no idea how to spray it. So I will start with this. If you are trying to spray this like you would any other enamel paint DON'T. if you are trying to use the cheep Majic paint DON'T. Re: TRACTOR SUPPLY PAINT in reply to mtf, 11-16-2013 16:56:33. Any type of enamel primer takes several days to dry. In the middle of the summer it would take 3-4 days for enamel primer to be dry enough to wet sand.
The basic steps to painting tractors are simple and easy to follow. You can paint your tractor in one day when you use the right paint. Basic Prep and Painting Tips. 1  Don’t put a time frame on your work; you don’t want to rush. 2  If you don’t have a respirator, purchase one from your local automotive parts store; you don’t want to breathe in fumes from the paint. 1 Choose high-quality truck and trailer implement paint enamel. 2  The higher the quality of paint, the more professional looking your paint job will look. 3  Choose a high performing paint gun, with good gravity. 4  A spray gun with an HVLP feed is probably the best choice.
Spray your car with a coat of tractor paint, working evenly. If the paint starts to run or drip, you are spraying too much. Allow the paint to dry for at least one hour, until it is no longer tacky to the touch. Repeat step 7 two more times for a total of three paint coats. Instructions. Sand away the old paint job on your car using 80-grit dry sandpaper. The sandpaper's coarse grit will take the old paint off your car. Rub the sandpaper over your car, using a buffer if you wish, until your car shows bare metal. Cover any area of the car you don't want painted with masking tape. Spray a tractor paint primer onto your car using a spray gun. Once you've sanded down to metal, apply the primer to protect your car from rusting. Allow the primer 20 minutes to dry, and apply two more coats in the same manner. Wait one half hour to sand the primer. Plunge 350-grit wet sandpaper into a bucket to wet it
Report to Moderator. Re: Paint in spray cans in reply to Paul in MD, 09-22-2005 11:00:01. (cut & pasted from an earlier post of mine about paint). I painted my 8N this spring, using Ford-NewHolland paint for the gray and the red and was very pleased with both. It is called Factory Match Finish Paint. The gray is: Gray Enamel (39/62)M1J-957-SE5DS and the red I used was Red Enamel 70780DS. I think the gray is very very close to the original gray. 
The secret using them is you spray the object and then let it get &quot;touch dry&quot; Then with the thinners used to clean the sprayer, you use that not to &quot;Paint the air&quot; but give your object a layer of clear thinners this gives it a high gloss finish. All you lack is a set of numbers on each front fender, and a name across the tailgate and it will look like a US Navy Ship LOL. Great Ible, and a great paint job! Ha I thought about it, but I actually sold the jeep about 2 months ago to fund the purchase of a 4runner.