For AT&T. AT&T detailed instructions here. 1  Dial #73 on your keypad, then wait for a dial tone. 2  Once you hear it, Dial the number you want to forward your calls to. 3  You may have to repeat this process in order to set up call forwarding if the physical phone you are forwarding to is not available. 
Some cell phone providers use different call forwarding terminology. 1  Set up conditional call forwarding if you want your calls forwarded when you cannot be reached on your cell phone. 2  Set up unconditional call forwarding if you want your phone calls routed to another phone number indefinitely, or unconditionally. Some providers may offer call forwarding as part of your service plan; whereas others may charge you an extra fee or per-minute rate. 5. Set up call forwarding on your cell phone. 1  Use the keystrokes or instructions provided to you by your cell phone carrier or enable call forwarding through the menu of your cell phone. 2  Depending on the model of phone you have, the menu steps may var
1 Press the 10-digit number of the cell phone where you'd like your calls to be forwarded to [source: Vonage 2  ]. Press the pound button (#) or wait for a response indicating that call forwarding has been activated [source: Vonage, ATT 3  ]. Repeat steps 1 through 3 if you're not sure if the process worked [source: ATT ]. If so, you can consider forwarding calls from your landline to your cell phone. It's really not that complicated. Just follow these steps, and your calls will be forwarded from your landline to your cell phone: 1  Dial star-seven-two (*72) from your landline phone, and wait for a dial tone
Cell phone call forwarding is now a standard feature on many cell phones. Call forwarding can be useful to send your calls to a land line if your cell is low on batteries or on minutes. While some providers charge extra for forwarded minutes, other providers offer call forwarding services for free.
If you want to stop forwarding your calls, simply dial star-seven-three (*73) from your landline telephone [source: Vonage, ATT ]. There are companies that set up call forwarding from your existing landline or even from a brand new number to your cell phone or other existing phone line. Some companies even provide international call forwarding at no extra cost to the caller. If so, you can consider forwarding calls from your landline to your cell phone. It's really not that complicated. Just follow these steps, and your calls will be forwarded from your landline to your cell phone: 1  Dial star-seven-two (*72) from your landline phone, and wait for a dial tone [source: ATT ]
4. Enter the 10-digit cell phone number you want your home phone calls forwarded to. 5. Dial or press the pound key to initiate call forwarding when you have finished entering the cell phone number. Going forward, when individuals dial your home phone number, their calls will be routed directly to your cell phone instead. 1  In some cases, you may receive an automated response that confirms you have activated the call forwarding service. 1. Contact your home telephone service provider to verify you can activate call forwarding. The ability to forward calls from your home phone may depend on your current service plan, or on the features provided to you by the telephone company.
Mechanics of Call Forwarding. For example, on a Verizon system, pick up your office phone and dial *72. Once you hear the tone, dial the cell phone number that you want to receive your forwarded calls. Once the cell phone answers, then call forwarding is enabled. Simply dial *73 on your office phone to disable the forwarding. This system is fine for a very small business, but won’t work in a larger operation. You may want to forward calls to a series of employees’ mobile numbers until you get an answer.
Ask your cell phone provider how to use call forwarding. Some carriers may need to enable call forwarding on your calling plan before you can use it. 1  Your cell phone provider may provide you with codes or keystrokes you can enter directly into your cell phone to enable or set up call forwarding. 2  4 Edit step. Some providers may offer call forwarding as part of your service plan; whereas others may charge you an extra fee or per-minute rate. 5. Set up call forwarding on your cell phone. 1  Use the keystrokes or instructions provided to you by your cell phone carrier or enable call forwarding through the menu of your cell phone. 2  Depending on the model of phone you have, the menu steps may vary