Integrating BUILDING AUTOMATION, ENERGY, and SECURITY to the ... https://www.tridium.com/galleries/brochures/VYKON-FINAL.pdftheir building automation, energy management, ... facility management with a web ... the date of publication of this document. Tridium, Inc. reserves the right to ...
And each version of “Tridium” (Vykon, Honeywell, Facility Explorer) are different exteriors that wrap the house. So the core framing stays the same but on the outside, the user interface, graphics, efficiency tools all look different.
The supervisory system is based on Tridium s Niagara Framework. Johnson Controls has tailored the system to support applications for the Johnson Controls field controllers that make the Facility Explorer system user friendly, flexible and easy to configure for a range of facilities.
Bob earned an Associate Degree in Microcomputers for Business from Del Mar College in Corpus Christi, Texas. His certifications include: Johnson Controls DX-9100, ASC, N30, Facility Explorer FX Tridium, Honeywell LCBS, WEBS AX, and Tridium AX Web Controls.
Integrating BUILDING AUTOMATION, ENERGY, and SECURITY to the ... https://www.tridium.com/galleries/brochures/VYKON-FINAL.pdf. their building automation, energy management, ... facility management with a web ... the date of publication of this document.
Over the last months I’ve been asked to explain why our integration partners should use the S4 Open: BACnet-N2 Router instead of the BACnet interface provided by a N30 or NAE, using a JCI Facility Explorer, or using a Tridium platform with on on-board N2 driver.
Case 4: Publish points to BACnet IP using a JCI Facility Explorer Supervisory Controller. 1  This is a JCI branded Tridium JACE that has some custom JCI modifications and a N2 driver added by JCI. 2  It is based on the Tridium Niagara Platform so there is a large base of support people available.
For Owners-Active Logix http://www.activelogix.com/library/datasheets/Periscope_Datasheet_Final.pdfidentification of real-time and historical trends in key attributes of multi-facility operation, including energy ... of this document. Tridium ... Explorer, Mozilla ...
MILWAUKEE Johnson Controls, Inc., the global leader in facility management and control, is introducing a new building control system, Facility Explorer, exclusively available through the company s Authorized Building Control Specialist (ABCS) network.