Ketosis /kɨˈtoʊsɨs/ is a metabolic state where most of the body's energy supply comes from ketone bodies in the blood, in contrast to a state of glycolysis where blood glucose provides most of the energy. During prolonged fasting or starvation, or as the intentional result of a ketogenic diet, acetyl-CoA in the liver is used to produce ketone bodies instead, leading to a state of ketosis. During starvation or a long physical training session, the body starts using fatty acids instead of glucose.
The rate of weight loss on a ketosis diet varies, and how long it takes to work depends on how much weight you need to lose, but you may be able to lose more than 12 pounds in a month. Weight Loss. When followed as advised, people on a ketogenic diet for weight loss lose weight and lose it quickly, according to dietitian Juliette Kellow. According to a 2008 study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, men who followed a ketogenic diet for four weeks lost an average of 12 pounds.
Under 50 grams of carbs a day will eventually get you to ketosis. Depending on the person and level of activity, it could take 2-3 days or up to a week before the body’s glycogen is depleted. 
Anywhere from 2 – 7 days, depending on your body type, activity levels, and what you’re eating. The fastest way to get into ketosis is to exercise on an empty stomach, restrict your carbohydrate intake to 20g or less per day, and be vigilant with your water intake. You can view the 30 Day Keto Diet Plan to get an idea of what I eat on a regular basis, and how it all plays into calculating your macros. What your job here is, is to make it fit into your own macros. That means adjusting the portion sizes to make the calories higher or lower.
If you go on a binge, it can take you a couple of days or more to eliminate the glycogen out of your liver. If you just have a few extra carbs, then no it does not take 3 days to get back into ketosis. If I have a piece of chocolate cake, for example, it only takes me a day to get back on track. The body only has the capacity to store about 300 to 400 grams of carbs, so if you've been following Atkins Induction correctly or Protein Power (20 to 30 net carbs per day), after 5 days you'll definitely be in Ketosis even if it's not showing up on the Ketone sticks.
Getting Into Ketosis. Your body's preferred source of fuel is glucose, which is derived from carbohydrates. When fasting, your body undergoes hormonal changes that stimulate the release of fat from your fat cells, where it is transported to the liver and made into ketones, which are then used for energy. Weight Loss. When followed as advised, people on a ketogenic diet for weight loss lose weight and lose it quickly, according to dietitian Juliette Kellow. According to a 2008 study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, men who followed a ketogenic diet for four weeks lost an average of 12 pounds.
The post is about how to get into ketosis faster, and the fastest way is to stick to no-carb foods so the body empties out its carb storage in the liver quicker. Induction is about getting the body into a state where it predominantly burns fat for fuel, rather than glucose. The body only has the capacity to store about 300 to 400 grams of carbs, so if you've been following Atkins Induction correctly or Protein Power (20 to 30 net carbs per day), after 5 days you'll definitely be in Ketosis even if it's not showing up on the Ketone sticks.
It only takes 1-3 days to get into ketosis. But getting in ketosis is easy, becoming keto-adapted is the tricky part. It usually takes a month to get to the first stage of becoming keto-adapted, and it takes up to 2 years to fully train your body to use ketones fully. Add Comment 8 Comments. 
When it comes to weight loss, everyone wants rapid results. A ketosis diet, better known as a ketogenic diet or low-carb diet, helps you lose weight by forcing your body to burn fat for energy instead of carbs, causing you to go into a state of ketosis. Weight Loss. When followed as advised, people on a ketogenic diet for weight loss lose weight and lose it quickly, according to dietitian Juliette Kellow. According to a 2008 study published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, men who followed a ketogenic diet for four weeks lost an average of 12 pounds.