Mayon Volcano is an active volcano in the province of Albay in the Bicol Region. Its almost perfectly-shaped cone is considered by some to be the Philippine equivalent of Mount Fuji in Japan. 15 kilometers to the southeast of the volcano is Legazpi City. Mayon is classified by volcanologists as a stratovolcano (composite volcano). Its symmetric cone was formed through alternate pyroclastic and lava flows. Mayon is the most active volcano in the country, having erupted over 50 times in the past 400 years
Mayon is the most active volcano in the Philippines having erupted over 49 times in the past 400 years. The first record of a major eruption was witnessed in February 1616 by Dutch explorer Joris van Spilbergen who recorded it on his log in his circumnavigation trip around the world. Mayon Volcano's longest uninterrupted eruption occurred on June 23, 1897 (VEI =4), which lasted for seven days of raining fire. Lava once again flowed down to civilization. Eleven kilometers (7 miles) eastward, the village of Bacacay was buried 15 m (49 ft) beneath the lava.
It is the most active volcano in the Philippines. Since 1616, Mayon has erupted 47 times. The beautifully symmetrical Mayon volcano, which rises to 2,460 meters above the Albay Gulf, is the Philippines' most active volcano. The structurally simple volcano has steep upper slopes that average 35-40 degrees and is capped by a small summit crater.
A severe eruption began at Mayon volcano on 23rd June 1897. Lava flowed down the side of the volcano for seven miles towards the east. Volcanic ash fell on the surrounding country for 100 miles to the east and 75 miles to the west. The eruption finished on 30th June 1897 and killed 350-400 people. 13.257 N, 123.685 E. summit elevation 2462 m. stratovolcano. Mayon volcano is a beautifully symmetrical volcano with a steep upper slope of 35-40 and is capped by a small summit crater 200 m in diameter. Mayon eruptions produce lava flows, pyroclastic flows and mud flows which threaten populations at the base of the volcano
Beautifully symmetrical Mayon volcano, which rises to 2462 m above the Albay Gulf, is the Philippines' most active volcano. The structurally simple volcano has steep upper slopes averaging 35-40 degrees that are capped by a small summit crater. Mayon's most violent eruption, in 1814, killed more than 1200 people and devastated several towns. (Description courtesy SI/USGS Global Volcanism Program). Mayon volcano, in SE Luzon, is the most active volcano in the Philippines. Its classic, symmetrical profile, which rises above the Albay Gulf to a height of 2462 m, is the result of a structurally simple volcano where eruptions have occurred from a single central conduit
Mayon Volcano, an aa kent as Mount Mayon, is an active volcano in the province o Albay, on the island o Luzon in the Philippines. Renained as the perfect cone acause o its almaist symmetric conical shape, Mayon forms the northren boundary o Legazpi Ceety, the lairgest ceety in terms o population in the Bicol Region. 
Located in the Bicol Region, on the island of Luzon, in the Philippines, Mayon Volcano reaches 2,460 meters and is the central feature of the Albay Province, of which Legazpi City is the capital, about 300-km southeast of Manila (shown in fig. 1) (8). (Fig. 1) The Mayon Volcano. One of the most ever visited places in the Philippines is the Mayon Volcano also called as Mount Mayon, considered as the greatest attraction for tourists and travelers through its awesome structure and vista.
Mayon volcano, in SE Luzon, is the most active volcano in the Philippines. Its classic, symmetrical profile, which rises above the Albay Gulf to a height of 2462 m, is the result of a structurally simple volcano where eruptions have occurred from a single central conduit. A hot lahar sweeps down a channel on the SW flank of Mayon volcano in the Philippines on September 14, 1984, five days after the onset of an eruption. The water temperature of this lahar was about 80 degrees Centigrade.