RE: What should I keep the humidity level at in my basement? My dehumidifier is rated at 30 pints per day. It brings the humidity down to 43% in the basement. That doesn't seem enough to me. What should I keep the humidity level at in my basement?
A dehumidifier is most effective at warmer temperatures and higher relative humidity levels. What should my humidity level be, and how do I know if I need a dehumidifier? Relative humidity levels above 60% can cause mold or mildew to grow, resulting in musty smelling air and unhealthy airborne mold spores. The ideal relative humidity level should be somewhere between 30% - 50%
Shares & Saves. Save. The ideal moisture level for a basement, whether finished or unfinished, is 30 to 50 percent relative humidity. During summertime, outside moisture pours in through basement walls and windows, bumping this figure up to 65 to 70 percent in much of the United States and Canada. 
Humidity can cause damage to your basement if it is not prevented by handling moisture or water leaks immediately. The dampness from humidity may cause the walls and foundation in your basement to rot, causing structural damage and potential health problems as a result from breathing contaminated, humid air. 
For the most part, humidity level between 40% and 60% should be ideal for your Maryland basement. Of course, humidity is going to vary depending on the weather, so you might want to measure it several times to determine your average. Step 2: Control Humidity. Get a dehumidifier. Depending on the size of your basement and the extent of the humidity problem, you might need a few of these. Get one first and see how well it performs. If it can get humidity levels down to 50% and even lower – you should be all set.
Diagnosis/Solution. Measure the humidity levels in your basement and throughout your house with a hygrometer, which closely resembles a thermometer and is available at your local hardware store. If the humidity levels in your basement are high, look for signs of water leaks and repair them. 
It seems that 50% is a good level. 40% is dry, and 60% invites mold and sweaty pipes. Use an electric hygrometer to measure the humidity level. A dehumidifier of at least 50 pints per day is recommended for the basement. The humidity level in colder climates can be much lower than 50% in the winter time. The mucous linings of the nose and the shape of your lips can give you an indication that it is too dry. Also, cuticles of your fingers will start to crack if you are in a dry home.
Rusting of steel also is greater at humidity levels above 50%. If the basement is cooler than outside temperature, and that is virtually certain in the Summer, the relative humidity in the basement will be higher than outside. 
Maybe it’s time to check the humidity levels in your basement. Humidity refers to the amount of moisture in the air. When air has absorbed all the moisture that it can, we say that humidity is at 100%. When the humidity level is at say half of that, it is defined as being at 50%. In other words, measures of humidity are relative, which is why we speak of RH, or relative humidity. The Effect of Seasons. Everything expands as it gets warmer, and that applies to the air itself.
I just bought a 50 pint dehumidifier for my basement. What humidity level should I aim for? This time of year the outside humidity is very high (over 80%) and we do not have central air. Remember if air outside is 60% RH and the temp is 80°F that would be equal to about 75% RH with with a basement temp of 60°F. Keeping it around 55%-60% will be comfortable and obtainable with a decent dehumidifier.