A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up. The same combined contribution limit applies to all of your Roth and traditional IRAs.
The two types of IRAs are the Roth and the traditional IRA. Both accounts receive different tax treatments. Essentially, Roth IRA contributions are made with after-tax money, whereas contributions to a traditional IRA might qualify for a tax deduction for the year the contribution was made. 
Then you can also deposit up to $5,500 in a Roth or traditional IRA for 2015 ($6,500 if you’re 50 and up). That’s the combined limit for both types of IRAs, by the way. You can’t put, say, $5,500 each into an IRA and a Roth IRA. You can contribute to a traditional or Roth IRA whether or not you participate in another retirement plan through your employer or business. However, you might not be able to deduct all of your traditional IRA contributions if you or your spouse participates in another retirement plan at work.
The most you can contribute to all of your traditional and Roth IRAs is the smaller of: 1  $5,500 (for 2014 and 2015), or $6,500 if you’re age 50 or older by the end of the year; or. Any deductible contributions and earnings you withdraw or that are distributed from your traditional IRA are taxable. Also, if you are under age 59 ½ you may have to pay an additional 10% tax for early withdrawals unless you qualify for an exception.
Yes. An individual may make IRA contributions to both a Roth and a Traditional IRA, providing the combined contribution total does not exceed the contribution limit for the year.
Yes, you can contribute to both a Traditional and a Roth IRA account but contribution limits apply across both accounts. For example, if your contribution limit is $5,00 … 0 then you could contribute $2,500 in each account. You can not contribute $5,000 into each account. Yes, the limitation does not apply between a SIMPLE IRA and a  Roth/Traditional. However, because a SIMPLE IRA is a qualified  retirement plan offered by your employer, yo … u may not be able to  get a traditional IRA deduction-all depends on your income  situation.
Most people who don’t have access to a 401(k) account at work can still contribute to an IRA, but the contribution limits are much lower. While workers can defer taxes on up to $17,500 using a 401(k) ($23,000 for those age 50 and older), they can only defer taxes on $5,500 using an IRA ($6,500 at age 50 or older). 
One is a Roth IRA, and the other is just an IRA. The second one is often called a Traditional IRA (TIR … A) to make it clear you are not talking about a Roth IRA. Either type of IRA is a retirement account. You can open either at a bank, brokerage house, mutual fund company, or insurance company. Yes, the limitation does not apply between a SIMPLE IRA and a  Roth/Traditional. However, because a SIMPLE IRA is a qualified  retirement plan offered by your employer, yo … u may not be able to  get a traditional IRA deduction-all depends on your income  situation.
And even though you can't fund a Traditional IRA once you've reached age 70 1/2, you can contribute to a Roth at any age, as long as you or your spouse have enough earned income to cover the contribution amount. The idea is that even if you earn too much to contribute to a Roth IRA directly, you can open a Traditional nondeductible IRA and convert it to a Roth; there is no income limit on Traditional nondeductible IRAs or conversions.