Stinging nettle is a plant. People use the root and above ground parts as medicine. Stinging nettle is used for many conditions, but so far, there isn’t enough scientific evidence to determine whether or not it is effective for any of them. Stinging nettle might have an effect like a water pill or diuretic.. Taking stinging nettle might decrease how well the body gets rid of lithium. This could increase how much lithium is in the body and result in serious side effects.
Stinging nettle root is also used for joint ailments, as a diuretic, and as an astringent. Stinging nettle above ground parts are used along with large amounts of fluids in so-called “irrigation therapy” for urinary tract infections (UTI), urinary tract inflammation, and kidney stones (nephrolithiasis). Stinging nettle might have an effect like a water pill or diuretic.. Taking stinging nettle might decrease how well the body gets rid of lithium. This could increase how much lithium is in the body and result in serious side effects.
Stinging nettle root is used for urination problems related to an enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia [BPH]). These problems include nighttime urination, too frequent urination, painful urination, inability to urinate, and irritable bladder. Stinging nettle might have an effect like a water pill or diuretic.. Taking stinging nettle might decrease how well the body gets rid of lithium. This could increase how much lithium is in the body and result in serious side effects.
Nettle (also known as Stinging Nettle) has been used for centuries to treat allergy symptoms, particularly hayfever which is the most common allergy problem. It contains biologically active compounds that reduce inflammation. 
Stinging hairs of Urtica dioica (stinging nettle). A stinging plant or a plant with stinging hairs is a plant with hairs (trichomes) on its leaves or stems that are capable of injecting substances into animals that cause pain or irritation. Other plants, such as opuntias, have hairs or spines that cause mechanical irritation, but do not inject chemicals.
Stinging nettle is a plant in the genus Urtica that originated as a native shrub in colder regions of Europe and Asia and is now found worldwide. It gets its name from the fine hairs on its leaves and stems that release irritating chemicals when they contact your skin. 
The stimulating effect of stinging nettle is used as a rinse for the hair. This will regenerate hair growth and restore original hair color. It is used by the personal hair care industry in anti-dandruff products and scalp conditioners. Clairol uses more than 40 tons of nettles a year as a hair conditioner. Nettle s iron content makes it a wonderful blood builder, and the presence of vitamin C aids in the iron absorption. As a hemetic (an herb rich in iron), this is an excellent herb for anemia and fatigue, especially in women.
The stinging nettle is a plant found practically all over the world. The plant is considered an herbaceous perennial, meaning that it has herbal properties and grows back in the same areas year after year. The leaves and stems of the plant are covered with brittle, hollow, hair-like structures. 
Available Forms. Stinging nettle is available as dried leaf, freeze-dried leaf, extract, capsules, tablets, and as root tincture (a solution of the herb in alcohol), juice, or tea. It also comes in the form of an ointment or cream that can be applied to the skin. Stinging nettle has been used for hundreds of years to treat painful muscles and joints, eczema, arthritis, gout, and anemia. Today, many people use it to treat urinary problems during the early stages of an enlarged prostate (called benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH).