The President of Germany, officially the President of the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundespraesident bundespräsident Der Bundesrepublik), deutschland is the head of state Of. germany Under Article 59 (1) of the Basic Law (German Constitution), the Federal President represents the Federal Republic of Germany in matters of international law, concludes treaties with foreign states on its behalf and accredits diplomats.
Chancellor Angela Merkel, Chancellor of Germany. Angela Merkel was sworn in as Chancellor on November 22, 2005. She is the first woman and the first East German to hold this office. Her CV traces her rise from an academic to a political career
Overview. Germany is a Constitutional, Constitutional Democracy, Democratic Republic, Federal (Federation), Federal Republic, Parliamentary Democracy, Parliamentary Government, and Republic whose current leader is Chief Executive Angela Merkel. The chief executive in Germany typically has a term length of 4 years. 
The current Chancellor is Angela Merkel, who is serving her third term in office. She is the first female chancellor, thus being known in German as Bundeskanzlerin. That particular word was never used officially before Merkel, but it is a grammatically regular formation of a noun denoting a female chancellor. The modern office of Chancellor evolved from the position created for Otto von Bismarck in the North German Confederation in 1867; the Confederation evolved into a German nation-state with the 1871 Unification of Germany.
The President of Germany, officially the President of the Federal Republic of Germany (German: Bundespraesident bundespräsident Der Bundesrepublik), deutschland is the head of state Of. Germany germany has a parliamentary system of government with The Federal chancellor running the government and the politics of the. day Under Article 59 (1) of the Basic Law (German Constitution), the Federal President represents the Federal Republic of Germany in matters of international law, concludes treaties with foreign states on its behalf and accredits diplomats.
The Chancellor of Germany is the head of government of Germany. The official title in German is Bundeskanzler(-in) (literally, Federal Chancellor), sometimes shortened to Kanzler(-in) . The term, dating from the early Middle Ages, is derived from the Latin term cancellarius. The modern office of Chancellor evolved from the position created for Otto von Bismarck in the North German Confederation in 1867; the Confederation evolved into a German nation-state with the 1871 Unification
The leader of Germany is the Chancellor who acts as head of government. This is currently Angela Merkel. Angela Merkel is a Christian Democrat, that is a moderate conservati … ve. She took office in 2005 and heads a coalition administration. The current Prime Minister (called Chancellor in Germany) is Angela Merkel and in terms of day to day affairs she is in charge. The Head of State though is the President Horst Koehler köhler who would represent the country on formal. occasions 43 people found this. useful
Germany also has a president, but he has very few powers. The current Prime Minister (called Chancellor in Germany) is Angela Merkel and in terms of day to day affairs she is in charge. The Head of State though is the President Horst Koehler köhler who would represent the country on formal. occasions 43 people found this. useful
The leader of Germany is the Chancellor who acts as head of government. This is currently Angela Merkel. Angela Merkel is a Christian Democrat, that is a moderate conservative. The position is similar to that of a Prime Minister. Germany also has a president, but he has very few powers. The current Prime Minister (called Chancellor in Germany) is Angela Merkel and in terms of day to day affairs she is in charge. The Head of State though is the President Horst Koehler köhler who would represent the country on formal. occasions