If you have employment contracts with your employees, then you should maintain these contracts for at least 10 years. According to Financial Web, you should “err on the side of caution” and maintain employee records for a longer period than you think you may need, in case a legal issue arises.
Age-discrimination documentation (ADEA) - keep payroll records for at least three years, and any other documents relating to personnel actions for at least one year, or during the pendency of a claim or lawsuit. OSHA records-keep OSHA-related records for at least five years.
I-9 records-keep all I-9 records for at least three years following the date of hire, or for one year following the employee's date of last work, whichever point is reached last. New Hire reporting-report all new hire information within 20 days of hire.
1 Keep records for 3 years if situations (4), (5), and (6) below do not apply to you. 2  Keep records for 3 years from the date you filed your original return or 2 years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later, if you file a claim for credit or refund after you file your return.
Recordkeeping Requirements. EEOC Regulations require that employers keep all personnel or employment records for one year. If an employee is involuntarily terminated, his/her personnel records must be retained for one year from the date of termination. Under ADEA recordkeeping requirements, employers must also keep all payroll records for three years.
In the case of employment records, the IRS guidelines say to keep the records for a minimum of four years after you pay the tax or the tax is due, whichever of the two dates is later. Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years.
For purposes of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), employers are required to keep payroll records for the same length of time required under the FLSA -- three years from the termination date. However, other employee benefit information must be retained for only one year.