In Greek mythology the lotus-eaters (Greek: λωτοφάγοι, lōtophagoi), also referred to as the lotophagi or lotophaguses (singular lotophagus /ləˈtɒfəɡəs/) or lotophages (singular lotophage /ˈloʊtəfeɪdʒ/), were a race of people living on an island dominated by lotus plants. The lotus-eaters even succeed in obtaining from it a sort of wine. Polybius identifies the land of the lotus-eaters as the island of Djerba (ancient Meninx), off the coast of Tunisia. Later this identification is supported by Strabo.
Odysseus and his crew land. Odysseus sends 3 men out to scout but they do not return. Odysseus then sends a search party and it turns out the 3 men ate fruit of Lotus. They found their lost party in a small community of Lotus eaters. It is a scene very similar to what would be a crack house today. Ulysses' men did not want to return to their ship; they just wanted to stay with the Lotus-eaters and stay drugged. Ulysses forced them back on-board ship.
The Lotus Eaters are a people that Odysseus encounters in his journey. The Lotus Eaters lived on an island eating lotuses for food. Unfortunately, the lotuses are so delicious … that any of Odysseus' crew that ate the lotuses no longer cared about getting home or what would happen to them. They found their lost party in a small community of Lotus eaters. It is a scene very similar to what would be a crack house today. Ulysses' men did not want to return to their ship; they just wanted to stay with the Lotus-eaters and stay drugged. Ulysses forced them back on-board ship.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The land of the Lotus-Eaters symbolizes 'escapism'. The Lotus plant relieves and takes you out of reality. Once you eat this plant you will never have a feeling of wanting to go back home, you will only want the plant. They found their lost party in a small community of Lotus eaters. It is a scene very similar to what would be a crack house today. Ulysses' men did not want to return to their ship; they just wanted to stay with the Lotus-eaters and stay drugged. Ulysses forced them back on-board ship.
The Island of the Lotus Eaters turns up again and again in songs, stories, and myths, suggesting that the idea has a powerful influence on us even today. [ Some form of this legend has popped up in locations as varied as Star Trek, Brave New World, and The Lotos-Eaters, a famous Tennyson poem. Weegy: The Latinised form of the Greek Kalupso. In Greek mythology Calypso was a nymph who fell in love with Odysseus and detained him on her island for seven years delaying his voyage home. Calypso is the name of one of Saturn's moons.
The land of the Lotus-Eaters symbolizes 'escapism'. The Lotus plant relieves and takes you out of reality. They found their lost party in a small community of Lotus eaters. It is a scene very similar to what would be a crack house today. Ulysses' men did not want to return to their ship; they just wanted to stay with the Lotus-eaters and stay drugged. Ulysses forced them back on-board ship.
In the course of Odysseus’ voyage he sighted the land of the lotus-eaters one afternoon, and encouragingly pointed it out to his fatigued sailor. The atmosphere of the land was dull, and a kind of faintness seemed to surround it. The air was like the sigh of a man seeing a painful, long dream. The Narrative. 
The land of the lotus eaters is the place where if a person eats the lotus plants... it makes the person never want to leave the place and stay there forever... They found their lost party in a small community of Lotus eaters. It is a scene very similar to what would be a crack house today. Ulysses' men did not want to return to their ship; they just wanted to stay with the Lotus-eaters and stay drugged. Ulysses forced them back on-board ship.
So what is the Island of the Lotus Eaters? And who are the Lotus Eaters? The Lotus eaters are from the classical greek myth called Odysseus, also known as Ulysses. Probably the best known myth in the Western world, it describes the journey of the hero Odysseus, on his return from the Trojan war back to Greece. Perhaps a slightly less well known chapter in the myth of Odysseus is the visit to the land or island of the Lotus eaters. This is one of the first stopping off points of the voyage after leaving Troy. On arriving at the island Odysseus sends some of his sailors to investigate the place.
Origins. The Lotus-Eater is a creature with origins in Greek mythology, legend and folklore. It is one of a race of people with origins on an unnamed island near North Africa (possibly near Djerba). Naturally, it is from a land highly populated by the honey-sweet Lotus. The Lotus-Eaters they make their one and only appearance in Greek mythology, within the poet Homer's famous epic poem, The Odyssey (the sequel to The Iliad). In the tale, a few of the hero Odysseus' men meet the Lotus-Eaters, on their way home from the Trojan War. The Lotus-Eaters beguile the men into joining their lotus-addicted society, with temptations of carefree life and an endless supply of delicious food.