Nutrition specialists may be dietitians or nutritionists, each of which require different certification and education. Registered dietitians must be certified nationally after acquiring a bachelor's degree in a field related to physiology, food service management, biochemistry or culinary arts. Certified nutrition specialists, or nutritionists, are health professionals specializing in diet, food and nutrition. Certified nutrition specialists, also known as nutritionists, are health professionals with expertise in diets, food and nutrition. While state agencies don't generally regulate certified nutrition specialists, national certification is available through the Certification Board for Nutrition Specialists (CBNS).
Essential Information. Dietitians, or nutritionists, are health care professionals who develop and supervise diet programs that improve public health. Dietitians generally need a bachelor's degree in dietetics or a related field. Most states require dietitians to be licensed. Master's degrees are recommended for advancement.
Students pursuing the registered dietitian/nutritionist credential need to complete the Didactic Program in Nutrition and Dietetics (DPND). Students can simultaneously fulfill the bachelor of science in nutrition sciences and the DPND requirements. In order to become a registered dietitian/nutritionist (RDN), students must also: 1  Complete the DPND. 2  Apply for, become accepted into, and complete an Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) — Accredited Dietetic Internship. 3  Pass the national Registration Examination for Dietitians.
Education Requirements. All physician nutrition specialists with certification from the ABPNS are medical doctors extremely knowledgeable in nutrition. Before enrolling in medical school, candidates need a bachelor's degree in a natural science field. Doctors interested in becoming a physician nutrition specialist should complete a residency program in pediatrics, internal medicine or general surgery. Certified nutrition specialists, also known as nutritionists, are health professionals with expertise in diets, food and nutrition. While state agencies don't generally regulate certified nutrition specialists, national certification is available through the Certification Board for Nutrition Specialists (CBNS).
Educational requirements vary by certifying organization. However, sports nutritionists are required to hold at least a bachelor's degree in order to practice in the profession. You might earn a degree in health, nutrition, dietetics or another applicable field. 
A registered dietitian (RD) or registered dietitian nutritionist (RDN), is a dietitian who meets all of a set of special academic and professional requirements, including: 1  the completion of a bachelor's degree with an accredited nutrition curriculum. A dietitian (or dietician) is an expert in dietetics; that is, human nutrition and the regulation of diet. A dietitian advises people on what to eat in order to lead a healthy lifestyle or to achieve a specific health-related goal.
Registered Dietitian Requirements By State. Becoming a registered dietitian is a challenging process that involves obtaining the proper education and experience through approved, accredited programs. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics (AND) regulates the Registered Dietitian practice nationwide. Certified nutritionists and registered dieticians must adhere to specific education and examination requirements administered by the state agency where that license is to be held. Requirements vary from state to state, with a wide range of certification types.
Educational Requirements for Dietitians. The minimum requirement for a career in dietetics is a bachelor's degree; however, some dietitians hold graduate degrees. There were 279 bachelor's and 18 master's degree programs approved by the Dietetic Association's (ADA) Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE) in 2009 (www.eatright.org). Dietitians, or nutritionists, are health care professionals who develop and supervise diet programs that improve public health. Dietitians generally need a bachelor's degree in dietetics or a related field. Most states require dietitians to be licensed. Master's degrees are recommended for advancement.
Dietitians must hold at least a bachelor's degree in dietetics, nutrition or another health science field. Some colleges and universities offer Bachelor of Science in Dietetics programs comprised of didactic curricula approved by the ADA. Dietitians, or nutritionists, are health care professionals who develop and supervise diet programs that improve public health. Dietitians generally need a bachelor's degree in dietetics or a related field. Most states require dietitians to be licensed. Master's degrees are recommended for advancement.