Hip pain is often difficult to describe, and patients may complain that the hip just hurts. The location, description, intensity of pain, what makes it better, and what makes it worse depend upon what structure is involved and the exact cause of the inflammation and injury. Pain from the hip joint may be felt anteriorly (in front of the hip) as groin pain, laterally over the greater trochanter, or posteriorly in the buttock. Sometimes the patient may complain of knee pain that has been referred from the hip. This is especially true in children.
A. A. A. Hip replacement surgery is a procedure in which a doctor surgically removes a painful hip joint with arthritis and replaces it with an artificial joint often made from metal and plastic components. It usually is done when all other treatment options have failed to provide adequate pain relief
Lower Back and Hip Pain. Before talking about lower back and hip pain it is probably worth establishing where exactly you think your hip is. I often have patients pointing to various bits of their body and describing it as their hip. The three most common paces are shown in the image below. Hip and Nerve Pain. There are two main nerves running from your spine down your legs, the sciatic nerve runs down the back of your thigh and the femoral nerve runs down the front. Advertisement.
Motion tests can usually differentiate the pain between the back and hip. For example: 1. If you lay on your back and bring you knee to your chest without moving your back-and pain occurs in the front or back of your hip-that would indicate a hip origin. 2. If you stand and bend forwards, backwards, side to side, and your pain is reproduced-its most likely coming from your spine or pelvis. Pain associated with certain movements of the hip are often a clue that the pain is hip related rather than back related. Your physician will likely be able to determine this upon physical examination. X-ray or MRI studies can also help to determine the exact cause.
Pain in the hip can result from a number of factors. Abnormalities of the skin, nerves, bones, joints, blood vessels, and soft tissues of the hip can all result in pain. Sometimes diseases that affect other joints in the body, such as the inflammation resulting from arthritis, can be the cause of pain in the hip. Trauma or injury, including bone fracture, is also a cause of hip pain. Pain in the hip area may also originate from painful infections or other conditions of the skin, such as shingles.
Hip pain may also occur because of a problem with the back or spine. Depending upon the cause of hip pain, the pain may occur when walking, running, or engaging in activity. Bursitis of one of the two bursae of the hip (sacs that provide cushioning between bones and tissues) can cause hip pain. Trauma or injury, including bone fracture, is also a cause of hip pain. Pain in the hip area may also originate from painful infections or other conditions of the skin, such as shingles.
Groin pain is often a sign of problems within the hip joint. Pain within the hip joint is most often, but not always, experienced in the groin. Pain over the outside of the hip is usually not caused by a hip joint problem and is more commonly related to hip bursitis or a pinched nerve in the back. Patients with hip problems also often complain of groind pain. This is called referred pain, and it is due to the organization of nerves in our body. 
Hip pain has a number of causes, most of which are related to degeneration, injury, or inflammation of the muscles, bones, joints, and tendons located in the hip area. Common causes of hip pain include arthritis, bursitis, bone fracture, muscle spasms and strains. Hip pain is the sensation of discomfort in or around the hip joint, where the upper end (head) of the thigh bone (femur) fits into the socket of the hip bone.