Preventing a heart attack. Making lifestyle changes is the most effective way to prevent having a heart attack (or having another heart attack). There are three main steps you can take to help prevent a heart attack (as well as stroke): 1  eat a healthy, balanced diet. 2  avoid smoking. 
Prevention. It's never too late to take steps to prevent a heart attack — even if you've already had one. Here are ways to prevent a heart attack. 1  Medications. 2  Taking medications can reduce your risk of a subsequent heart attack and help your damaged heart function better. 3  Continue to take what your doctor prescribes, and ask your doctor how often you need to be monitored. 4  Lifestyle factors
This is another prime tip on how to prevent heart attack. If you can get a minimum of 30 minutes of exercise each day, you can greatly reduce your risk of heart disease. The physical activity combined with a healthy diet and lifestyle can do wonders to protect your heart and keep it healthy. Whether you are already at risk for heart attacks, or are simply concerned about your health, heart attack prevention may mean a significant lifestyle change. With these simple steps, you can learn how to prevent a heart attack – and how to stop heart attack if you feel the symptoms coming on.
Don’t smoke. Many people ask how to prevent heart attack, but they continue to smoke incessantly. Tobacco is a prime contributor to heart disease, as it damages the heart and blood vessels, leading to atherosclerosis. By quitting smoking, you can drastically reduce your risk of heart disease within just one year. Whether you are already at risk for heart attacks, or are simply concerned about your health, heart attack prevention may mean a significant lifestyle change. With these simple steps, you can learn how to prevent a heart attack – and how to stop heart attack if you feel the symptoms coming on.
1 Medications. 2  Taking medications can reduce your risk of a subsequent heart attack and help your damaged heart function better. 3  Continue to take what your doctor prescribes, and ask your doctor how often you need to be monitored. 4  Lifestyle factors. It's never too late to take steps to prevent a heart attack — even if you've already had one. Here are ways to prevent a heart attack. 1 
If you want to know how to prevent heart attack, one of the best tips is sticking to a heart-smart diet. That may mean drastically changing what you eat, but cutting out certain foods can greatly reduce your heart attack risk. Here are some tips on eating a heart-smart diet: Limit unhealthy fats and cholesterol. Whether you are already at risk for heart attacks, or are simply concerned about your health, heart attack prevention may mean a significant lifestyle change. With these simple steps, you can learn how to prevent a heart attack – and how to stop heart attack if you feel the symptoms coming on.
This is called a heart attack and it's the No. 1 killer of both men and women each year in the United States [source: American Heart Association ]. The bad news about heart attacks is that there are many factors that play in to whether you'll have one, including your genes, what you eat and how much you exercise. The good news is that they're preventable. If you take steps now, you can greatly improve your chances of not having a heart attack. 
Don't smoke or use tobacco. Smoking or using tobacco of any kind is one of the most significant risk factors for developing heart disease. Chemicals in tobacco can damage your heart and blood vessels, leading to narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis). Atherosclerosis can ultimately lead to a heart attack. 
The blood vessels which feed the heart are called coronary arteries. A heart attack, also known as a myocardial infarction (MI), is when one of the coronary arteries gets blocked and the muscle dies. This type of blockage is usually the result of heart disease, or coronary artery disease (CAD). This leads to the formation of blood clots which can completely obstruct the arteries. This is the cause of the majority of heart attacks. If you worry you might be at risk for a heart attack, you can follow a few simple steps to prevent one from happening.