1 Medications. 2  Dizziness can be a side effect of certain medications — such as anti-seizure drugs, antidepressants, sedatives and tranquilizers. 3  In particular, blood pressure lowering medications may cause faintness if they lower your blood pressure too much.
The answer depends on what you mean exactly. Many medications can cause dizziness. This can be the light headedness associated with blood pressure medications to the woozy feeling from narcotics to the sleepy feeling of sedatives.
Medications, such as meclizine, may be helpful if you have motion sickness. You can get a scopolamine patch to place behind your ear if you are going on a cruise. Meclizine or Dramamine may help with symptoms of benign positional vertigo.
1 Dizziness can be a side effect of certain medications — such as anti-seizure drugs, antidepressants, sedatives and tranquilizers. 2  In particular, blood pressure lowering medications may cause faintness if they lower your blood pressure too much. 3  Anxiety disorders.
Other causes of dizziness. 1  Neurological conditions. 2  Some neurological disorders — such as Parkinson's disease and multiple sclerosis — can lead to progressive loss of balance. 3  Medications. 4  Dizziness can be a side effect of certain medications — such as anti-seizure drugs, antidepressants, sedatives and tranquilizers.
Medicines That May Cause Lightheadedness or Vertigo. Many prescription and nonprescription medicines can make you feel lightheaded or affect your balance. A few examples are: 1  Antibiotics. 2  Blood pressure medicines. 3  Medicines used to treat depression or anxiety. 4  Pain
A balance disorder may be caused by viral or bacterial infections in the ear, head injuries, or blood circulation disorders that affect the inner ear or brain. Many people experience problems with their sense of balance as they age. Balance problems and dizziness also can result from taking certain medications. Problems in the nervous and circulatory systems can be the source of some posture and balance problems. Problems in the skeletal or visual systems, such as arthritis or eye muscle imbalance, also may cause
Vertigo, or dizziness, usually results from a disorder in the peripheral vestibular system (i.e., structures of the inner ear). Dizziness also may occur as a result of a disorder in the central vestibular system (i.e., vestibular nerve, brainstem, and cerebellum). In some cases, the cause of vertigo is unknown.