Every year these fees change, but a ballpark figure for courthouse filing charges is between $300 to $500. If you have an amicable divorce without children or much property, you might be able to work with a legal aid service charging between $250 to $400. Court Fees Determined by County. The California government is short of money, so when you file for divorce in California, expect to plenty of fees and charges. The primary fee will be a filing fee for the county records being updated. There might also be a paperwork fee for processing everything
Attorneys and Specialists. If you hire an attorney, the cost can increase $1,000 to $10,000 or more. Some attorneys charge a set fee, but most of them charge by the hour. According to Lawyers.com, the average hourly rate for attorneys in metropolitan areas is $200 to $400 (Reference 4). Filing Fees. To start a divorce, you have to fill out forms and take them to the Superior Court in your county, where the clerk files or enters them into the system. According to the July 28, 2009, California Judicial website's Civil Fees chart, it costs $355 to file a dissolution anywhere in the state.
Whether you handle your divorce yourself or hire an attorney, there will be extra costs. State courts charge a filing fee for a divorce petition, usually in the neighborhood of $200. If you use a sheriff or private process server to deliver your petition to your spouse, this will cost an additional $35 to $100. In most states, you can bypass this expense if you’re on amicable terms with your spouse.
And the obvious answer is still true… every divorce is different. But there are some parameters. Most people say that a divorce will cost anywhere from $15,000 to $20,000. So what fees can you expect: attorney fees, court costs, costs for parent education classes, fees for neutral evaluations and mediation costs. If there’s real estate involved you’ll have to factor in refinancing costs and record deed fees. 
In general, this is the court process for a divorce, legal separation, or annulment of a marriage, or domestic partnership (Or click to see information on Legal Steps for a Divorce or Legal Separation (FL-107-INFO) with links for detailed information on each step): 1. 
According to a 2006 article on Forbes.com, divorce proceedings can range from a few hundred to many thousands of dollars, with the average cost of a contested divorce ranging from $15,000 to $30,000. Most of this money is spent on legal fees. 
$320 to file the initial divorce papers in California. If the spouse files a Response with the court he/she would have to pay an additional response/appearance fee of $320. A response fee is not charged if its a CA summary dissolution or if the case enters default. In terms of cost, I would estimate an amicable divorce to cost between $250 and $400 if you use an aid service, and perhaps less if you avail yourself of county courthouse self-help programs. This does not include the courthouse filing charges, which might vary from county to county
This is a complicated question to answer. The Court filing fees are easy... the first paper filing fee in California's superior courts is $395. After that, motions and most other court fees range from $20 - $60 or so. Attorney fees are another matter. On average, we have found that the typical cost for attorney fees for a divorce is between $15,000 - $20,000 per person. There are a lot of factors that go into that cost -- the amount of conflict, whether there are children, how many times you have to go to court to resolve disputes, complex legal issues, etc