Each desert is different so you should specify a particular desert. There are hot deserts and there are cold deserts. The temperature could range from well below -120 degrees F in the Antarctic Desert to over 120 degrees F in the Mojave Desert. The daily temperature range in a desert varies greatly by the  location of the desert and the time of year. A typical range might  run from a low of 50 degrees F at night to … a high of over 110  degrees F in the daytime.
The desert biome is an example of terrestrial (land) biome. Daytime temperatures are high in summer and low in winter in temperate desert biomes. The average temperature range in temperate desert biomes is between 30° F and 70 ° F. Winters are long and cold below 32F. Most precipitation is in the winter when the snow melts. One example is the sagebrush vegetation of the Great Basin and northern Colorado Plateau
The temperature range in deserts are quite high because deserts are generally very cold at night and very hot in the day time. most deserts have a mean temperature range of about 32 degree celsius. The daily temperature range in a desert varies greatly by the  location of the desert and the time of year. A typical range might  run from a low of 50 degrees F at night to … a high of over 110  degrees F in the daytime.
Climate. Deserts are determined by low amounts of rainfall, not temperature. They typically receive less than 30 cm of rain per year. The driest deserts often receive less than 2 cm of rain per year. Temperatures in the desert are extreme. Because of the lack of moisture in the air, heat quickly dissipates as the sun sets. In hot deserts, the temperatures can range from above 100 degrees Fahrenheit in the day to below 32 degrees Fahrenheit at night. Cold deserts generally receive more rainfall than do hot deserts. In cold deserts, temperatures in winter range between 32-39 degrees Fahrenheit with occasional snowfall. 
In the coastal desert the summer temperatures range from 55 to 72.7 degrees Fahrenheit. In the winter the thermometer will not go above 41 degrees. The average rainfall of this particular type of desert is 8-13 centimeters. The winter brings a little rainfall, but the summers are hot and dry. The average rainfall is about one inch of rain. The soil is rocky and shallow. The Semiarid Desert The semiarid desert's average temperature in the summer is 110.3 to 80.6
For example: The desert biome Hot and dry desert: annual temperatures range from 20-25° C = (68 - 77 F). Most deserts receive less than 300 mm a year compared to rainforests, which receive over 2,000 mm. That means that the desert only gets 10 percent of the rain that a rainforest gets! The temperature in the desert can change drastically from day to night because the air is so dry that heat escapes rapidly at night.
There are the hot and dry desert, the semiarid desert, the coastal desert, and the cold desert. The Hot Desert. This desert's average temperature ranges from 64 to 77 degrees Fahrenheit. The extreme temperature is 110.3 to 120 degrees Fahrenheit. The sand's average temperature is 64 degrees Fahrenheit. The winter brings a little rainfall, but the summers are hot and dry. The average rainfall is about one inch of rain. The soil is rocky and shallow. The Semiarid Desert The semiarid desert's average temperature in the summer is 110.3 to 80.6 degrees Fahrenheit.
Hot and Dry Deserts temperature ranges from 20 to 25° C. The extreme maximum temperature for Hot Desert ranges from 43.5 to 49° C. Cold Deserts temperature in winter ranges from -2 to 4° C and in the summer 21 to 26° C a year. The precipitation in Hot and Dry Deserts and the precipitation in Cold Deserts is different. Hot and Dry Deserts usually have very little rainfall and/or concentrated rainfall in short periods between long rainless periods. This averages out to under 15 cm a year.