Eventually, the bone will regain all of its original strength and will be completely healed. If the fracture is not severe, the healing time will take 3 to 6 weeks, provided that you rest. There is no magic way of getting a bone to heal, because the body will heal it on its own in due time. In the meantime, take it easy and get some rest. After a couple of weeks, you should begin to feel better. 
Treatment Options. While healing time for bruised ribs typically ranges anywhere between 5 to 6 weeks, rib fractures might take longer to heal. The time one would take to recover would also vary, depending on the overall health of the patient. It might range from 6 weeks to 6 month
Best Answer: If you were not having any difficulty in breathing, they normally do not x-ray for broken ribs. If you would have had difficulty, the x-ray would be used to see if the fractured rib, punchered a lung..... As for how long will it take..... the pain should start subsiding after the 1st week..... provided you do not over stretch, hit it against anything, etc.
Thank you for your response to our blog. When you have a fractured rib or ribs you can experience pain and disability for the upwards of 6 weeks, depending on how severely the fracture is displaced. It can be helpful to see your doctor for pain management during this time. If your ribs are more severely injured or displaced you may need to see a specialist. Pain is the most common symptom that people experience with rib fractures. It will often take the upwards of 6 weeks, sometimes 6 months for the fractures to heal and for patients to become entirely pain free.
Although broken ribs will eventually heal on their own in 1-2 months if you are relatively healthy, knowing how to treat them at home will significantly reduce your discomfort. In rare cases, fractured ribs puncture the lungs or damage other internal organs, which necessitates emergency medical treatment. Ad. 1. Put ice over the fractured rib. Apply an ice pack, frozen gel pack or bag of peas from the freezer onto your rib injury for about 20 minutes every hour you are awake for the first 2 days, then reduce it to 10-20 minutes 3x daily as needed to reduce pain and swelling.
Home treatment will help you manage the pain while you heal. Pain relief can help you feel better and let you take deeper breaths. A fractured rib usually takes at least 6 weeks to heal. To help manage the pain while the fracture heals: 1  Put ice on the injured area. 2  Get extra rest. 3  Take pain medicine such as aspirin or ibuprofen. 4  Your doctor may prescribe a stronger pain medicine if over-the-counter medicines don't work. 
How long can it take a broken rib to heal? It can take anywhere from a month to several months to heal back to 90-100%, depending on the type, size and magnitude of the fracture (and whether it is hairline, simple or c … ompound). How long does it takes for rib fracture to heal?   Approximately 10-12 weeks until repaired however some find, if they haven't done light exercises on that area during the recovery process it can take up to 6 months to r … eturn to strength.
It takes about 6-8 weeks to heal, depending on the type of injury sustained. (Keep the finger as still as you can !!!!) When broken place the hand in ice cold water for … about 5 min.s then take it and wrap the whole hand in a soft wrap (anything that is a soft colth) . How long does it takes for rib fracture to heal?   Approximately 10-12 weeks until repaired however some find, if they haven't done light exercises on that area during the recovery process it can take up to 6 months to r … eturn to strength.