1 A service mark is the same as a trademark, except that it identifies and distinguishes the source of a service rather than a product. 2  Throughout this booklet, the terms trademark and mark refer to both trademarks and service marks. 
The Hebrew word, torah (תורה), is derived from a root that was used in the realm of archery, yareh (ירה). Yareh means to shoot an arrow in order to hit a mark. The mark or target, of course, was the object at which the archer was aiming. Consequently, torah, one of the nouns derived from this root, is, therefore, the arrow aimed at the mark, The target is the truth about God and how one relates to Him. 
Markup Law & Legal Definition. Markup is the amount that a seller of goods or services charges over and above the total cost of delivering its product or service in order to make a desired profit. For example, if the total cost of a manufacturer's product is $20, but its selling price is $29, then the extra $9 is understood to be the markup.. Markup is utilized by wholesalers, retailers, and manufacturers alike.
A trademark, trade mark, or trade-mark is a recognizable sign, design, or expression which identifies products or services of a particular source from those of others, although trademarks used to identify services are usually called service marks. The trademark owner can be an individual, business organization, or any legal entity. A trademark may be located on a package, a label, a voucher, or on the product itself.
The symbol TM is used to provide notice of a claim of common-law rights in a trademark. A TM usually is used in connection with an unregistered mark, to inform potential infringers that a term, slogan, logo or other indicator is being claimed as a trademark. Use of the TM symbol does not guarantee that the owner’s mark will be protected under trademark laws. The symbol SM functions similarly to the symbol TM, in that it is used to provide notice of a claim of common-law rights in a mark; however, it is used in connection with a service mark, covering services, such as banking or legal services, rather than tangible goods.
A trade-mark is only protected to the extent that it is used by a person to distinguish a product or service from another. Trade-marks do not give exclusive rights to a symbol, for instance, but only for the symbol in relation to a particular use in order to distinguish the product from others. (a) a mark that is used by a person for the purpose of distinguishing or so as to distinguish wares or services manufactured, sold, leased, hired or performed by him from those manufactured, sold, leased, hired or performed by others, (b) a certification mark. (c) a distinguishing guise, or. (d) a proposed trade-mark.
3. What does the symbol ® mean? The symbol ® is a notice of registered ownership used in many countries or regions to advise the public that a trademark or service mark is registered and to provide constructive notice of the legal ownership status of the mark with which it is used. The symbol SM functions similarly to the symbol TM, in that it is used to provide notice of a claim of common-law rights in a mark; however, it is used in connection with a service mark, covering services, such as banking or legal services, rather than tangible goods.
Definition. A trademark is any word, name, symbol, or design, or any combination thereof, used in commerce to identify and distinguish the goods of one manufacturer or seller from those of another and to indicate the source of the goods. See 15 U.S.C. § 1127. See also service mark, collective mark, certification mark, trade name