In Roman mythology, Veritas, meaning truth, was the goddess of truth, a daughter of Saturn and the mother of Virtue. It was believed that she hid in the bottom of a holy well because she was so elusive. Her image is shown as a young virgin dressed in white. Veritas is the motto of Harvard University, The University of Western Ontario, Drake University, Knox College (Illinois) , Bilkent University, the University of California-Hastings College of the Law, as well as the Dominican Order of the Roman Catholic Church, and Providence College, which is run by the Dominicans.
This Latin word  veritas  now appears in the mottos of many colleges and universities. It is typically capitalized in mottos (as  Veritas ) for being an ideal (such as: Truth, Kindness and Beauty). Veritas is the motto of Harvard University, The University of Western Ontario, Drake University, Knox College (Illinois) , Bilkent University, the University of California-Hastings College of the Law, as well as the Dominican Order of the Roman Catholic Church, and Providence College, which is run by the Dominicans.
Veritas is also the name given to the Roman virtue of truthfulness, which was considered one of the main virtues any good Roman should possess. In Greek mythology, Veritas is known as Aletheia (Ancient Greek: ἀλήθεια) and is the daughter of Zeus, or a creation of Prometheus. Veritas was often depicted nude. Veritas is the motto of Harvard University, The University of Western Ontario, Drake University, Knox College (Illinois) , Bilkent University, the University of California-Hastings College of the Law, as well as the Dominican Order of the Roman Catholic Church, and Providence College, which is run by the Dominicans.
Howard University, in Washington, DC, goes by the motto Veritas et Utilitas, translated to Truth and Service. It also exists in the logo of Seoul University: Veritas Lux Mea - meaning Truth is my light. Villanova University also uses Veritas in its school motto, Veritas, Unitas, Caritas (Truth, Unity, Love). Veritas is the motto of Harvard University, The University of Western Ontario, Drake University, Knox College (Illinois) , Bilkent University, the University of California-Hastings College of the Law, as well as the Dominican Order of the Roman Catholic Church, and Providence College, which is run by the Dominicans.
(i.e. Get a clean Backup or Clean your backup tapes). Originally expressed as Palmolive et Veritas, however, Madge (the Palmolive saleswoman) was mostly too hands on and Lux was therefore considered more generic. There are parity errors on our backup tapes. 
AND the specific meaning of the Hebrew words. Urim and Thummim, when translated, is generally taken as meaning something like light(s) and perfection(s) or revelation and truth. (The FORM of each word is PLURAL, but sometimes such words are the so-called plural of majesty, but have a SINGULAR sense. But the KEY to the SPECIFIC origin is found in the TOP part of the seal, where you will see a pair of HEBREW words written. אורים ותמים In English letters, 'Urim we-Thummim, generally simply rendered Urim and Thummim in Bible translations. http://content.answers.com/main/content/... Lux et veritas (light and truth) is meant as a TRANSLATION of this Hebrew expression. So, a bit more on the Hebrew. The expression refers to some object or set of objects that were to be kept in the clothing of the high priest and used to consult the Lord God for answers to certain questions
As the first answer suggested there IS a biblical origin to the expression written at the bottom of the Yale University seal. But the KEY to the SPECIFIC origin is found in the TOP part of the seal, where you will see a pair of HEBREW words written. אורים ותמים. In English letters, 'Urim we-Thummim, generally simply rendered Urim and Thummim in Bible translations. http://content.answers.com/main/content/wp/en/thumb/9/9a/198px-Official_Yale_Shield.png. Lux et veritas (light and truth) is meant as a TRANSLATION of this Hebrew expression
AND the specific meaning of the Hebrew words. Urim and Thummim, when translated, is generally taken as meaning something like light(s) and perfection(s) or revelation and truth. (The FORM of each word is PLURAL, but sometimes such words are the so-called plural of majesty, but have a SINGULAR sense. But the KEY to the SPECIFIC origin is found in the TOP part of the seal, where you will see a pair of HEBREW words written. אורים ותמים. In English letters, 'Urim we-Thummim, generally simply rendered Urim and Thummim in Bible translations.