Corrosion is a chemical reaction in which molecules break down due  to a chemical reaction with it's surroundings. Most often,  corrosion is the electrochemical oxidation of … a metal (such as iron  corroding to form iron oxide, a.k.a. rust).     Corrosion is deterioration of a substance, usually metal. 
The Web's Best Sites. The chemical deterioration of a material, usually a metal or metal alloy, is called corrosion. The most common causes of corrosion are contact with water and oxygen, though other substances in the earth and in the atmosphere can also cause corrosion. The material with the greatest economic importance that is most affected by corrosion is iron. The corrosion of iron. corrosion... 
Most often,  corrosion is the electrochemical oxidation of … a metal (such as iron  corroding to form iron oxide, a.k.a. rust).     Corrosion is deterioration of a substance, usually metal.     Corrosion is slow and continous eting away of metal by the  surrounding. Metal Corrosion or Metallic Corrosion can be defined as the destructive attack of a metal through interaction with its environment. The most common example is Rust, an … iron oxide Fe2O3, that is the consequence of the Corrosion process of Iron. + 9 others found this useful.
Definition: Erosion is the general name for the processes that break down rocks (weathering) and the processes that carry away the breakdown products (transportation). The physical processes of erosion are called corrasion or mechanical erosion; the chemical processes are called corrosion or chemical erosion. 
Corrosion is a natural process, which converts refined metal to their more stable oxide. It is the gradual destruction of materials (usually metals) by chemical reaction with their environment. In the most common use of the word, this means electrochemical oxidation of metal in reaction with an oxidant such as oxygen. Microbial corrosion, or commonly known as microbiologically influenced corrosion (MIC), is a corrosion caused or promoted by microorganisms, usually chemoautotrophs. It can apply to both metallic and non-metallic materials, in the presence or absence of oxygen.
The breaking down or destruction of a material, especially a metal, through chemical reactions. The most common form of corrosion is rusting, which occurs when iron combines with oxygen and water. 1. (Chemistry) a process in which a solid, esp a metal, is eaten away and changed by a chemical action, as in the oxidation of iron in the presence of water by an electrolytic process. 2. slow deterioration by being eaten or worn away. 3. (Chemistry) the condition produced by or the product of corrosion. (kəˈroʊ ʒən).
Corrosion is the chemical or electrochemical reaction between a material, usually a metal, and its environment that produces a deterioration of the metal and its properties. A chemist would classify corrosion as an oxidation, an electron-transfer reaction involving the loss of electrons. Metal Corrosion or Metallic Corrosion can be defined as the destructive attack of a metal through interaction with its environment. The most common example is Rust, an … iron oxide Fe2O3, that is the consequence of the Corrosion process of Iron. + 9 others found this useful.
The main processes involved in rivers are: erosion [erosion: the wearing away of rocks, soil or other solid materials] , transport [Transport: The movement of rocks, sand, and silt by the river.] , deposition [deposition: the 'dumping' or dropping of beach material] . One is to explain the processes of the river. The other is to describe how the processes make landforms. They sometimes overlap. You need to know what all the terms mean, and you need to be able to use them to describe processes.
Coastal erosion involves the breaking down and removal of material along a coastline by the movement of wind & water. It leads to the formation of many landforms and, combined with deposition, plays an important role in shaping the coastline. 