Liver tests (LTs) are blood tests used to assess the general state of the liver or biliary system. Few of these tests actually measure how well the liver or biliary system is functioning, but rather reflect the presence of damage or inflammation. 
No blood test is 100% accurate. If the doctor suspects a liver problem, they usually do more blood test ,with intervals in between, to be sure of the tests results. The blood tests only give the doctor an idea that there is something wrong. They cannot give a true diagnoses until other tests are done. Usually, a liver problem starts out as inflammation of the liver cells. This means that the liver cells are stress and can become damage which causes the immune system to respond. The blood tests may show a rise in the liver enzymes at this point. But, in some people no rise is detected.
Liver blood tests are some of the most commonly performed blood tests. These tests can be used to assess liver functions or liver injury. An initial step in detecting liver damage is a simple blood test to determine the level of certain liver enzymes (proteins) in the blood. 
Liver enzyme tests, formerly called liver function tests (LFTs), are a group of blood tests that detect inflammation and damage to the liver. They can also check how well the liver is working. Most often, a liver test panel is ordered as a routine lab test. Many doctors check the liver in new patients or during annual physicals. Your doctor may conduct liver enzyme and liver function tests if: 1  You are taking a medication that can harm the liver. 2  You have liver disease. 3  You have symptoms of liver or bile system disease (abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting, or yellow skin)
A liver (hepatic) function panel is a blood test to check how well the liver is working. This test measures the blood levels of total protein, albumin, bilirubin, and liver enzymes. High or low levels may mean that liver damage or disease is present. The liver serves several important functions in the body, including changing nutrients into energy for the body and breaking down toxic substances.
Liver function tests (LFTs or LFs) are groups of blood tests that give information about the state of a patient's liver. These tests include prothrombin time (PT/INR), aPTT, albumin, bilirubin (direct and indirect), and others. 
Liver function tests are blood tests used to help diagnose and monitor liver disease or damage. The tests measure the levels of certain enzymes and proteins in your blood. Some of these tests measure how well the liver is performing its normal functions of producing protein and clearing bilirubin, a blood waste product. Other liver function tests measure enzymes that liver cells release in response to damage or disease. Abnormal liver function test results don't always indicate liver disease. Your doctor will explain your results and what they mean. 1  Why it's done.
You may have blood tests to check your liver enzymes. These can help show whether you have had liver inflammation for a long time. These blood tests include: 1  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) , alanine aminotransferase (ALT) , and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). Measuring the levels of certain chemicals produced by the liver can show how well your liver is working. Blood tests may be used to measure: 1  Albumin and total serum protein. 2  Albumin is a type of protein.
Blood tests to check liver function. Measuring the levels of certain chemicals produced by the liver can show how well your liver is working. Blood tests may be used to measure: 1  Albumin and total serum protein. 2  Albumin is a type of protein. 3  Liver disease can cause a decrease in protein levels in the blood. 4  Partial thromboplastin time or prothrombin time/INR. 5  These tests measure blood-clotting factors that are produced in the liver. 6  Bilirubi