Polar bears are found across the Arctic. They are most abundant in areas with annual sea ice and productive ringed seal populations. There are five nations with polar bears: U.S. (Alaska), Canada, Russia, Greenland (Kingdom of Denmark), and Norway (Svalbard). Polar bears do not live in Antarctica. While short by our standards, polar bears are considered long-lived animals. In the wild, polar bears live an average 15 to 18 years, although biologists have tagged a few bears in their early 30s. In captivity, some long-lived bears reach their mid-to late 30s.
Details... © Daniel J. Cox/Natural Exposures. Polar bears live in the circumpolar north in areas where they can hunt their primary prey, ice seals. They are found in Canada (home to roughly 60% of the world's polar bears), the U.S. (Alaska), Greenland, Russia, and Norway (the Svalbard archipelago). The polar bear Range States have identified 19 populations of polar bears living in four different sea ice regions across the Arctic. Although popular art and children's books often show polar bears and penguins together, the two live at opposite poles. Polar bears live in the Arctic, a massive frozen sea surrounded by continents. Penguins live in Antarctica, an ice-covered continent surrounded by oceans. 1  Learn about the polar bear's home range.
Most polar bears occur north of the Arctic Circle to the North Pole. There are some populations south of the Arctic Circle in Hudson Bay, Manitoba, Canada. Polar bears live in Alaska, Canada, Russia, Greenland and some northern islands owned by Norway like Svalbard. 
Polar bears live in the Arctic region, but not specifically at the North Pole. The largest populations of polar bears are in western Canada in the Northwest and Yukon Territor … ies and in northern Alaska. Most polar bears live in North America. The five polar bear nations, in which the bears are found, include the U.S. (Alaska), Canada, Russia, Denmark (Greenland), and Norway. They can only be found in these specified Arctic regions in the very far north of the northern hemisphere.
Where polar bears DO live: Polar bears range throughout the circumpolar extreme northern hemisphere in the Arctic regions where they can hunt their prey (seals) at open leads. The five polar bear nations, in which the bears are found, include the U.S. (Alaska), Canada, Russia, Denmark (Greenland), and Norway. They can only be found in these specified Arctic regions in the very far north of the northern hemisphere.
Polar bears are the largest bear species. They can grow to 8-11 feet tall and about 8 feet long, and weigh about 500-1,700 pounds. They are easily-recognized due to their white coat and dark eyes and nose. But the main reason they live in these cold areas is their prey. Polar bears feed on ice-loving species, such as seals (ringed and bearded seals are favorites), and sometimes walruses and whales. They stalk their prey by waiting patiently near holes in the ice.
These bears are distributed across western Greenland, Beaufort Sea, Hudson Bay, Baffin Bay, Eastern Greenland, Kara Sea, Chukchi Sea, Barents Sea, and Laptev Sea. They are also known to live in Norway, Russia, United States, and Canada. These bears are not regarded as the strong territorial species just like grizzly bears. The total population of polar bears counts to 20,000 – 25,000 globally. They also live in Greenland, Hudson Bay, Barents Sea, Chukchi Sea, Kara Sea, Laptev Sea, Beaufort Sea and Baffin Sea. Other places include United States, Norway, Denmark, Russia
Polar bears live throughout the Arctic in areas where they can hunt seals in wide cracks in the sea ice or at breathing holes. The taxonomic name for polar bears is Ursus maritimus, which means sea bear, a fitting name for these champion swimmers. Today, our polar bears live in a wonderful tundra habitat complex: the Conrad Prebys Polar Bear Plunge. The focal point of the Plunge is, naturally, the pool. From the underwater viewing room, you can see how agile and playful these Arctic bruins really are.