HI! RNA acts as the information bridge between DNA and protein. mRNA is the message that carries genetic information from the DNA in the nucleus to the cytoplasm. tRNA is the adaptor that reads the mRNA and brings the amino acids to the ribosomes for protein synthesis. RNA polymerase is an enzyme that makes RNA using a DNA template. Like DNA polymerase, RNA polymerase adds nucleotides in the 5' to 3' direction.
Introduction to protein synthesis: Nucleus, Ribosome, Endoplasmic Reticulum, and Golgi Complex. Protein synthesis involves two processes: 1) transcription-the synthesis of messenger RNA from a DNA template and 2) translation: the synthesis of a polypeptide from the messenger RNA sequence. This idea is called the one-gene-one-polypeptide hypothesis.
The ribosome is responsible for the synthesis of proteins in cells and is found in all cellular organisms. It serves to convert the instructions found in messenger RNA (mRNA, which itself is made from instructions in DNA) into the chains of amino-acids that make up proteins. Protein synthesis begins at a start codon AUG near the 5' end of the mRNA. mRNA binds to the P site of the ribosome first. The ribosome is able to identify the start codon by use of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the mRNA in prokaryotes and Kozak box in eukaryotes.
The rRNA (ribosomal RNA) of the Ribosomes are synthesized in the nucleolus, within the nucleus. The rRNA passes through nuclear pores into the cytoplasm and bind to small Ribosomal Subunit, then recruits the large Subunit of the Ribosome. 
In bacterial cells, ribosomes are synthesized in the cytoplasm through the transcription of multiple ribosome gene operons. In eukaryotes, the process takes place both in the cell cytoplasm and in the nucleolus, which is a region within the cell nucleus. Protein synthesis begins at a start codon AUG near the 5' end of the mRNA. mRNA binds to the P site of the ribosome first. The ribosome is able to identify the start codon by use of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the mRNA in prokaryotes and Kozak box in eukaryotes.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. Ribosomes consist of two major components: the small ribosomal subunit, which reads the RNA, and the large subunit, which joins amino acids to form a polypeptide chain. Protein synthesis begins at a start codon AUG near the 5' end of the mRNA. mRNA binds to the P site of the ribosome first. The ribosome is able to identify the start codon by use of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the mRNA in prokaryotes and Kozak box in eukaryotes.
Ribosomes are big complexes of protein and RNA molecules. In eukaryotic cells: Most of the ribosomal RNA is made in a specialized region of the nucleus called the nucleolus with only exception the 5s rRNA which is made in different part of the nucleus. The Nucleolus is also found in the nucleus. It produces ribosomes at a rate of 10,000 / min. The nucleus controls the cell's functioning through the production of m-RNA. Ribosomes: functions in protein synthesis. They are not considered a membrane bound organelle. Ribosomes are built from 2 subunits.
Ribosomes are made in a specialized area of the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, not in the cytosol. Check the link. The RNA in ribosomes is transcribed in the nucleus, and the protein components are translated in the cytosol and then imported into the nucleus. They are assembled together inside the nucleus. The Nucleolus is also found in the nucleus. It produces ribosomes at a rate of 10,000 / min. The nucleus controls the cell's functioning through the production of m-RNA. Ribosomes: functions in protein synthesis. They are not considered a membrane bound organelle. Ribosomes are built from 2 subunits.
The talk page may contain suggestions. (October 2012). The nucleolus is contained within the cell nucleus. The nucleolus (/nuːˈkliːɵləs/ ; plural nucleoli /nuːˈkliːɵlaɪ/) is the largest structure in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, where it primarily serves as the site of ribosome synthesis and assembly. 