The nucleus of each cell in our bodies contains approximately 1.8 metres of DNA in total, although each strand is less than one millionth of a centimetre thick. This DNA is tightly packed into structures called chromosomes, which consist of long chains of DNA and associated proteins. In eukaryotes, DNA molecules are tightly wound around proteins-called histone proteins-which provide structural support and play a role in controlling the activities of the genes. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components: 1  a nitrogenous base: cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A) or thymine (T). 2  a five-carbon sugar molecule (deoxyribose in the case of DNA).
Chicago: Field Enterprises, 1996. On the average, a single human chromosome consists of DNA molecule that is about 2 inches long.. 2.3 m. The chromosomes in the nucleus of a cell contain all the information a cell needs to carry on its life processes. It is a double-stranded helical macromolecule consisting of nucleotide monomers with deoxyribose sugar and the nitrogenous bases adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T). In the chromosomes of a cell, DNA occurs as fine, spirally coiled threads that in turn coils around another, like a twisted ladder.
The bases on one strand pair with the bases on another strand: adenine pairs with thymine, and guanine pairs with cytosine. DNA molecules are long — so long, in fact, that they can't fit into cells without the right packaging. To fit inside cells, DNA is coiled tightly to form structures we call chromosomes. Each chromosome contains a single DNA molecule. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes, which are found inside the cell's nucleus. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
To get a sense of exactly how long an uncoiled DNA molecule is compared to a typical cell, a cell is magnified 1000 times. At this scale, the total length of all the DNA in the cell's nucleus would be 3 km -- the equivalent distance of the Lincoln Memorial to the capital in Washington, DC. It is a double-stranded helical macromolecule consisting of nucleotide monomers with deoxyribose sugar and the nitrogenous bases adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G), and thymine (T). In the chromosomes of a cell, DNA occurs as fine, spirally coiled threads that in turn coils around another, like a twisted ladder.
Work by Avery and Hershey, in the 1940s and 1950s, proved that DNA is the genetic molecule. Work done in the 1960s and 1970s showed that each chromosome is essentially a package for one very long, continuous strand of the DNA. 
How much DNA is there in a chromosome set? The single chromosome of the prokaryote Escherichia coli is about 1.3 mm of DNA. In stark contrast, a human cell contains about 2 m of DNA (1 m per chromosome set). The human body consists of approximately 10 13 cells and therefore contains a total of about 2 × 10 13 m of DNA. 
DNA. DNA (or deoxyribonucleic acid) is the molecule that carries the genetic information in all cellular forms of life and some viruses. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components: 1  a nitrogenous base: cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A) or thymine (T). 2  a five-carbon sugar molecule (deoxyribose in the case of DNA).
Genes are made of a chemical called DNA, which is short for 'deoxyribonucleic acid'. The DNA molecule is a double helix: that is, two long, thin strands twisted around each other like a spiral staircase. The DNA double helix showing base pairs. The sides are sugar and phosphate molecules. The rungs are pairs of chemicals called 'nitrogenous bases', or 'bases' for short. 
Answers. Best Answer: Every chromosome contains a single molecule of DNA, the skinny, snakelike carrier of hereditary information. If stretched out to its full length, the DNA molecule in a human chromosome would be between 1.7 and 8.5 centimeters (about 0.7 to 3.3 inches) long, depending on the chromosome. But it would be vanishingly thin, less than a millionth of a centimeter across. 