Pyrethroid insecticides are a special chemical class of active ingredients found in many of the modern insecticides found on store shelves and used by pest management professionals. The name pyrethroid means “pyrethrum-like” and refers to the origin of this class of pesticides. The common name of the active ingredient in this product is permethrin. It’s not too difficult to recognize a pyrethroid insecticide. Look at the pesticide label, generally on the front of the product, and look for the list of active ingredients. Active ingredients usually list a chemical and a common name.
The term pyrethroid is confusing to many because of its similarity to the name of the natural insecticide mixture known as pyrethrum or pyrethrins. Pyrethrum is one of the oldest known insecticides and comes from the dried and crushed flowerheads of two species of asters: Chrysanthemum cinerariifolium and C. coccineum. The common name of the active ingredient in this product is permethrin. It’s not too difficult to recognize a pyrethroid insecticide. Look at the pesticide label, generally on the front of the product, and look for the list of active ingredients. Active ingredients usually list a chemical and a common name.
Pyrethroids are synthetic, or man-made, versions of pyrethrins. There are two major classes of pyrethroids, Type I and Type II pyrethroids. Type I pyrethroids are characterized by their ability to knockdown insects quickly but the Type II pyrethroids will induce higher insect mortality than Type I pyrethroids.
Pyrethroids are a group of man-made pesticides similar to the natural pesticide pyrethrum, which is produced by chrysanthemum flowers. Although more than 1,000 pyrethroids have been made, only a few are used in the United States. These include permethrin (Biomist®), resmethrin (Scourge®) and sumithrin (Anvil®). Pyrethroids are found in many commercial products used to control insects, including household insecticides, pet sprays and shampoos. The amount of pyrethroids used in gardening products can be two to three times more than what is used when fogging for insects. Because pyrethroids and other chemicals are present in gardening products, they may be on the skins of fruits and vegetables.
Medical Definition of PYRETHROID. : any of various synthetic compounds that are related to the pyrethrins and resemble them in insecticidal properties. — pyrethroid adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. pyrethr in + -oid. First Known Use: 1949.
Because they are biodegradable compounds, pyrethrins are now widely regarded as being preferable to pyrethroids, which is the name of a group of synthetic analogues of pyrethrin that accumulate in the environment. Pyrethrins are considered to be low toxicity pesticides from a human health standpoint. 
A pyrethroid is an organic compound similar to the natural pyrethrins produced by the flowers of pyrethrums (Chrysanthemum cinerariaefolium and C. coccineum). Pyrethroids now constitute the majority of commercial household insecticides. Mode of action [edit]. Pyrethroids are axonic excitoxins, the toxic effects of which are mediated through preventing the closure of the voltage-gated sodium channels in the axonal membranes. The sodium channel is a membrane protein with a hydrophilic interior