Located in the continent of South America, Ecuador covers 276,841 square kilometers of land and 6,720 square kilometers of water, making it the 74th largest nation in the world with a total area of 283,561 square kilometers.
Find out where is Ecuador located. The location map of Ecuador below highlights the geographical position of Ecuador within South America on the world map.
The western side of the country is located on the Pacific Ocean. The equator passes through the country 24km (14.9 mi) north of the capital city Quito. The following is a map of South America with Ecuador marked. The territory of Ecuador also includes the Galapagos Islands, which are also located on the equator about 972 km (525 nmi) west of the country. There are 13 main islands and 3 minor islands in this archipelago.
The Republic of Ecuador is situated at the northwest part of South America bordered by Peru in the south and the east, Colombia in the north and the Pacific Ocean in the west. The Galapagos Islands in the Pacific Ocean are part of Ecuador’s territory.
The given Ecuador location map shows that Ecuador is located in the north-western part of South America continent. Ecuador map also shows that it shares its international boundaries with Colombia in the north and Peru in east and south. However, the country makes coastline in the western part with Pacific Ocean. Apart from the mainland, Ecuador has also a small group of islands in the Pacific Ocean i.e. Galapagos Islands.
Ecuador is located in the northwestern region of South America. It is bordered by the Pacific Ocean to the west, Colombia to the north, and Peru to the east and south. The territory of Ecuador consists of the mainland and the Galapagos Islands located 1000km to its west in the Pacific.
Map of Ecuador shows that the Equator cross through the country; probably, the name of the country has been given after it. Ecuador's capital city is Quito, which is one of the best places in South America and also tourists destination.