To paraphrase one of Gartner’s early definitions: Data Center Infrastructure Management integrates facets of system management with building management and energy management, with a focus on IT assets and the physical infrastructure needed to support them. A true DCIM solution is a game-changer across a spectrum of challenges: 1  Energy management. 2  Asset management. 3  Availability management. 4  Risk management. 5  Service management. 6  Supply chain management. 7  IT automation.
DEFINITION of 'Infrastructure'. The basic physical systems of a business or nation. Transportation, communication, sewage, water and electric systems are all examples of infrastructure. These systems tend to be high-cost investments, however, they are vital to a country's economic development and prosperity.
Term [edit]. Infrastructure asset management is a specific term of asset management focusing on physical, rather than financial assets. Sometimes the term infrastructure management is used to mean the same thing, most notably in title of The International Infrastructure Management Manual (2000, first edition). The first published use of the term asset management to refer to physical assets is not known for sure. The earliest adopter known for certain is Dr Penny Burns in 1984 (see the Asset Management History Project [1]).
The Infrastructure Management Program (IMP) is a five-year rolling program which focuses on the maintenance of San Antonio’s Infrastructure. 
Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) means many things to many people. It is a relatively young term that represents an emerging class of IT physical infrastructure solutions, one that has already generated enormous market acceptance. A true DCIM solution is a game-changer across a spectrum of challenges: 1  Energy management. 2  Asset management. 3  Availability management. 4  Risk management. 5  Service management. 6  Supply chain management. 7  IT automation.
Tech Mahindra’s IT Infrastructure Management Services (IMS) offers a suite of reliable, responsive, flexible and proven infrastructure services and solutions that deliver differentiated value to our customer's business. 
Infrastructure refers to the fundamental facilities and systems serving a country, city, or area, including the services and facilities necessary for its economy to function. Main article: History of infrastructure. According to the Online Etymology Dictionary, the word infrastructure has been used in English since at least 1887 and in French since at least 1875, originally meaning The installations that form the basis for any operation or system.
Kofax TotalAgility. vs. Oracle BPM. For an organization's information technology, infrastructure management (IM) is the management of essential operation components, such as policies, processes, equipment, data, human resources, and external contacts, for overall effectiveness. Download 9 FREE Strategic Planning Templates that your Peers Already Use. 
Data Center Infrastructure Management – when it’s the right solution from the right vendor – can optimize the performance, efficiency, and business value of IT physical infrastructure and keep it seamlessly aligned with the needs of the business. DCIM can help decision-makers: A true DCIM solution is a game-changer across a spectrum of challenges: 1  Energy management. 2  Asset management. 3  Availability management. 4  Risk management. 5  Service management. 6  Supply chain management. 7  IT automation.
Infrastructure asset management is the integrated, multidisciplinary set of strategies in sustaining public infrastructure assets such as water treatment facilities, sewer lines, roads, utility grids, bridges, and railways. The first published use of the term asset management to refer to physical assets is not known for sure. The earliest adopter known for certain is Dr Penny Burns in 1984 (see the Asset Management History Project [1]).