Medical Definition of SWEAT TEST. : a test for cystic fibrosis that involves measuring the subject's sweat for abnormally high sodium chloride content. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
Sweat test: Also known as the sweat chloride test. A simple test that is used to evaluate a patient who is suspected of having cystic fibrosis (CF). The goal of the test is to stimulate the patient's skin to produce a certain amount of sweat, which may then be absorbed by a special filter paper and analyzed for its chloride content. Abnormal tests may be repeated to confirm the diagnosis. Conditions that may produce a false positive test include diseases of adrenal, thyroid, or pituitary glands; some types of glycogen storage diseases, ectodermal dysplasia and atopic eczema.
The sweat test measures the amount of chloride in the sweat. There are no needles involved in this test. In the first part of the test, a colorless, odorless chemical (pilocarpine) and a little electrical stimulation is applied to a small area of an arm or leg to encourage the sweat glands to produce sweat. If a person shows symptoms of cystic fibrosis or if a baby has a positive newborn screen for CF, a doctor will order a sweat chloride test, often referred to as a sweat test. This simple, painless test is the most reliable way to diagnose CF. It measures the concentration of salt in a person's
Definition. A sweat test, sometimes called a sweat chloride test, is a procedure used to measure the amount of sodium and/or chloride (salt) excreted by a person's sweat glands. Purpose. The sweat test is used to diagnosis cystic fibrosis (CF). CF is an incurable, inherited disorder that affects glands in the lungs, intestines, bile duct, and pancreas, as well as the sweat glands.
Guide. A sweat test measures the amount of salt chemicals (sodium and chloride) in sweat. It is done to help diagnose cystic fibrosis. Normally, sweat on the skin surface contains very little sodium and chloride. People with cystic fibrosis have 2 to 5 times the normal amount of sodium and chloride in their sweat. During the sweat test, medicine that causes a person to sweat is applied to the skin (usually on the arm or thigh). The sweat is then collected on a paper or a gauze pad, and the amount of salt chemicals in the paper or gauze is measured in a lab. Generally, chloride (sweat chloride) is measured
The sweat test measures the concentration of chloride that is excreted in sweat. It is used to screen for cystic fibrosis (CF). Due to defective chloride channels (CFTR), the concentration of chloride in sweat is elevated in individuals with CF. 
In a technique called iontophoresis, a small painless electric current is applied to the forearm or back, allowing penetration of a medication that maximizes sweat stimulation. The test result is normal, intermediate, or abnormal. Patients with CF usually have an abnormally high chloride value in their sweat. Abnormal tests may be repeated to confirm the diagnosis. Conditions that may produce a false positive test include diseases of adrenal, thyroid, or pituitary glands; some types of glycogen storage diseases, ectodermal dysplasia and atopic eczema.
sweat test, a method for evaluating sodium and chloride excretion from the sweat glands, often the first test performed in the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis. The sweat glands are stimulated with a drug such as pilocarpine, and the perspiration produced is analyzed.