But if there's a stain the size of a dust mite anywhere on the mattress, you're out of luck. There's not a manufacturer that I know of, says Tom Wholley, who owns Connecticut Mattress stores in Avon and South Windsor, and I've been doing this for 35 years, that does not have the clause in their warranty..
To guard your mattress from stains or damage that can void your warranty, our Mattress Professionals recommended a mattress protector. It’s your sure-fire way to stay covered. Keep your invoice and warranty forms so you can validate any warranty claim.
The use of a waterproof mattress protector is recommended for the sole purpose of helping you to avoid this from happening to you. No matter the brand or retailer, a stain on your mattress will immediately and absolutely void the manufacturer's warranty.
Rev.8.3Nov20101 Stains void this warranty!Use a mattress pad! This warranty does not include transportation costs Many of today’s top-quality mattresses use extra plush foams and fibers to create comfort layers designed to cradle your body and relieve pressure.
Abusing a mattress voids the warranty, says Bob Naboicheck, president of Gold Bond, a Hartford mattress manufacturer. That includes blood or urine stains on a mattress or bending the mattress to get it in or out of a space.
A stain would not typically void a mattress warranty. You need to read the actual language of the warranty. If you do not have a copy, demand a copy from the company. It is very likely that the warranty says nothing about stains voiding
ANSWER: A stain would not typically void a mattress warranty. You need to read the actual language of the warranty. If you do not have a copy, demand a copy from the company. It is very likely that the warranty says nothing about stains voiding
Buyer Beware...a stain will void the warranty of your mattress‏. Michele writes: I bought a Simmons Beautyrest Helena around three years ago from the Willmington Store. After a year or so, I would not make it thru the night and my lower back was killing me to the point I dreaded going to bed.
1 Stains. 2  If a mattress is stained, the warranty is void. 3  This even goes for problems in which the stain obviously didn’t cause the sag. 4  Liquids can wear down the foams and cause them to deteriorate faster than they otherwise would.