Cora /co-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KOR-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Cora is maiden. Probably a variant of Kore or Corinna. An invented name coined by American writer James Fenimore Cooper for the dark-haired heroine in The Last of the Mohicans (1826). 
Cora is used mostly in English and French, and its language of origin is Old Greek. It is derived from the element 'kore' with the meaning maiden, virgin. An old form of the name is Kore (Old Greek). The name was known in Greek mythology as an alternative name of the goddess of the underworld, Persephone. 
Scottish Meaning: The name Cora is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Cora is: Seething pool. American Meaning: The name Cora is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cora is: Seething pool. English Meaning: The name Cora is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cora is: Maiden. Greek Meaning: The name Cora is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cora is: From 'kore' meaning girl or maiden
Meanings and history of the name Cora : | Edit. The name Cora is a name first made popular by American writer James Fenimore Cooper for the dark-haired heroine in The Last of the Mohicans (1826). A variant of the Greek KORE korë OR., corinna it means meaning.. maiden Origin of the name Cora: Derived from the Greek Korē, which is from korē (maiden). The name is borne in Roman mythology as a byname for Proserpina and in Greek mythology as a byname for Persephone.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Cora and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Cora and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The first thing you should know if you are considering Cora for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Cora is a girl name. The name Cora is of Greek origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.
Comments and insights on the name Cora: | Edit. The meaning of the name Cora is Heart, Maiden. We are planning to use Cora as a shortened form for Corazon, 'heart' in Spanish. The name Corazon for girls is not uncommon in the Philippines. Origin of the name Cora: Derived from the Greek Korē, which is from korē (maiden). The name is borne in Roman mythology as a byname for Proserpina and in Greek mythology as a byname for Persephone.
View the Cora Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Cora has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Cora to other names. The name Cora is of uncertain derivation but is probably a Latinized form of the Greek name Kore, meaning maiden. It was a name coined in fiction by James Fenimore Cooper for a character in the Last of the Mohicans. The names Corabelle, Coralia, Coralie, Coraline are all forms of Cora. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own.
Hello, Guest. Cora is a lovely, old-fashioned name -- Cora was a daughter of Zeus and Cora Munro is the heroine of The Last of the Mohicans (in fact James Fenimore Cooper probably invented it for his 1826 novel)-- that has been recently rejuvenated and strengthened by its contemporary-feeling simplicity. In classical mythology, Cora--or Kore -- was a euphemistic name of Persephone, goddess of fertility and the underworld. While a complete name unto itself, some parents who love Cora may want to use it as a short form for such names as Cordelia or Coraline.
Notes: Cora is a name with Greek origins. The meaning of the name Cora is heart/maiden. An alternate spelling is Kora. Nicknames for the name Cora include Core and Corazon. Cora is another name for the Greek goddess Persephone. Cat Cora is a famous chef. Cora Walton is the original name of singer Koko Taylor. Tom Cora is an American cellist.