Hormones. are secreted from the glands of the endocrine system, they are specific in that each hormone causes a response in a specific target organ or group of cells, rather than on the body as a whole. Exocrine hormones are secreted via a duct into the blood and usually effect a distant organ or tissue. The Endocrine system regulates the activities of the body by secreting complex chemical substances (hormones) into the blood stream. These secretions come from a variety of glands which control various organs of the body. The key functions are: 1  To regulate the metabolic functio
The hypothalamus is highly involved in pituitary gland function. When it receives a signal from the nervous system, the hypothalamus secretes substances known as neurohormones that start and stop the secretion of pituitary hormones. The hypothalamus plays a significant role in the endocrine system. It is responsible for maintaining your body’s internal balance, which is known as homeostasis. To do this, the hypothalamus helps stimulate or inhibit many of your body’s key processes, including:
Functions of the Endocrine System. The Endocrine system (along with the nervous system) controls and regulates the complex activities of the body. The Endocrine system regulates the activities of the body by secreting complex chemical substances (hormones) into the blood stream. These secretions come from a variety of glands which control various organs of the body. The key functions are: 1  To regulate the metabolic functions of the body.
The hypothalamus links the nervous system with the endocrine system. It produces hormones that control the pituitary gland s responses to messages from the brain and other hormones. Some these hormones, called releasing hormones, stimulate the pituitary gland to make other hormones. That is because the pituitary gland produces hormones that regulate other endocrine glands. Some hormones produced by the pituitary gland are: 1. Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH): Will be discussed in a later Chapter of the syllabus.
Hormonal Regulation. The levels of hormones in the body can be regulated by several factors. The nervous system can control hormone levels through the action of the hypothalamus and its releasing and inhibiting hormones. For example, TRH produced by the hypothalamus stimulates the anterior pituitary to produce TSH. Tropic hormones provide another level of control for the release of hormones. 
The endocrine system regulates its hormones through negative feedback, except in very specific cases like childbirth. Increases in hormone activity decrease the production of that hormone. The immune system and other factors contribute as control factors also, altogether maintaining constant levels of hormones. The endocrine system produces hormones that are instrumental in maintaining homeostasis and regulating reproduction and development. A hormone is a chemical messenger produced by a cell that effects specific change in the cellular activity of other cells (target cells).
1 The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body. The hypothalamus plays a significant role in the endocrine system. It is responsible for maintaining your body’s internal balance, which is known as homeostasis. To do this, the hypothalamus helps stimulate or inhibit many of your body’s key processes, including:
The Hypothalamus Essentials. 1  The portion of the brain that maintains the body’s internal balance (homeostasis). 2  The hypothalamus is the link between the endocrine and nervous systems. 3  The hypothalamus produces releasing and inhibiting hormones, which stop and start the production of other hormones throughout the body. The hypothalamus plays a significant role in the endocrine system. It is responsible for maintaining your body’s internal balance, which is known as homeostasis. To do this, the hypothalamus helps stimulate or inhibit many of your body’s key processes, including:
The endocrine system is a control system of ductless glands that secrete hormones within specific organs. Hormones act as messengers, and are carried by the bloodstream to different cells in the body, which interpret these messages and act on them. The endocrine system produces hormones that are instrumental in maintaining homeostasis and regulating reproduction and development. A hormone is a chemical messenger produced by a cell that effects specific change in the cellular activity of other cells (target cells).
The main body systems involved in hormone regulation by feedback mechanisms are: 1  the nervous system. ... 2  signals input to and output from the control centre are either. 3  which are part of the. , 4  or chemical signals. 5  the endocrine system. ... 6  which produces and secretes hormones. 