An oocyte (UK /ˈoʊəsʌɪt/ , US /ˈoʊ.oʊ.saɪt/), ooecyte, oöcyte, ovocyte or rarely, ocyte is a female gametocyte or germ cell involved in. Reproduction in other, words it is an immature, ovum or egg. Cell an oocyte is produced in the ovary during female. gametogenesis In other words, it is an immature ovum, or egg cell. An oocyte is produced in the ovary during female gametogenesis. The female germ cells produce a primordial germ cell (PGC), which then undergoes mitosis, forming oogonia. During oogenesis, the oogonia become primary oocytes.
1 The sperm and oocyte (the male and female germ cells or gametes) are specialized sex cells containing one-half the regular number of chromosomes. 2  Gametogenesis is a delicate, specialized maturation process called spermatogenesis in males and oogenesis in females and has 2 major functions. 1 The gametes are formed in the gonads, which also have hormonal functions. 2  The sperm and oocyte (the male and female germ cells or gametes) are specialized sex cells containing one-half the regular number of chromosomes.
An egg (ovum) from the female or a mature sperm from the male. Mentioned in: Infertility Therapies. a haploid germ cell; one of two cells, male (spermatozoon) and female (ovum), whose union is necessary in sexual reproduction to initiate the development of a new individual. 1  Facebook. gamete. a haploid germ cell; one of two cells, male (spermatozoon) and female (ovum), whose union is necessary in sexual reproduction to initiate the development of a new individual. 1  Facebook.
Germ cells are called oogonia in females and spermatogonia in males. Oogonia are found in the female gonads or ovaries, while spermatogonia are found in the male gonads or testes. During oogenesis, germ cells divide to produce ova or eggs in females. In males, germ cells undergo spermatogenesis to produce spermatozoa or sperm cells. Ova and spermatozoa are called gametes. Females make gametes called eggs and males make gametes called sperm. Gametes are haploid cells, which means that they have only one set of chromosomes. In humans, gametes have 23 chromosomes. Diploid germ cells must undergo many rounds of cell division and create many new cells in order to produce haploid gametes.
Gametogenesis: The development and production of the male and female germ cells required to form a new individual. The male and female germ cells are called gametes. The gametes in human males are produced by the testes, two globe-shaped reproductive organs just below the penis. 
Establishment of this oocyte pool is essential for fertility. Mammalian primordial germ cells form and migrate to the gonad during embryonic development. After arriving at the gonad, the germ cells are called oogonia and develop in clusters of cells called germ line cysts or oocyte nests. Subsequently, the oogonia enter meiosis and become oocytes. The oocyte nests break apart into individual cells and become packaged into primordial follicles. 
A germ cell is any biological cell that gives rise to the gametes of an organism that reproduces sexually. In many animals, the germ cells originate in the primitive streak and migrate via the gut of an embryo to the developing gonads. Somatic cells are all the other cells that form the building blocks of the body and they only divide by mitosis. The lineage of germ cells is called germ line. Germ cell specification begins during cleavage in many animals or in the epiblast during gastrulation in birds and mammals.