He was put on remicade in 2004. THe cost at that time and up to 1/1/2014 was $6600.00, our part was about $400.00. He always got his infusions at the Rhuemetology office. The location was switched to a hospital infusion center and our bill for 2/2014 was $25,000.00, our part $1600.00. 
1 A typical fill can cost $1,047 or more for 1 vial of Remicade 100mg. 2  Patients in need of this drug may find most of the cost paid by an insurance company, government, or non profit organization. 3  If you are uninsured or need help with your co-pay, the manufacturer may also offer assistance. 4  Learn more. Specialty medication. This drug is considered a specialty medication, which means: 1  It may be expensive. 2  A typical fill can cost $1,047 or more for 1 vial of Remicade 100mg. 3  Patients in need of this drug may find most of the cost paid by an insurance company, government, or non profit organization
Like all of the TNF inhibitors, infliximab is an expensive medication, costing about US$900 for a 100 mg dose, and within the United States is covered by almost every medical insurance plan (though caps on many plans make it possible to be covered for only a subset of treatments in the course of a year). Infliximab works by binding to TNF-α. TNF-α is a chemical messenger (cytokine) and a key part of the autoimmune reaction. In rheumatoid arthritis, infliximab seems to work by preventing TNF-α from binding to its receptor in the cell. Infliximab is an artificial antibody.
Infliximab was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and rheumatoid arthritis. It is used off-label outside its FDA approval for Behcet'behçet s disease and other. conditions Infliximab works by binding to TNF-α. TNF-α is a chemical messenger (cytokine) and a key part of the autoimmune reaction. In rheumatoid arthritis, infliximab seems to work by preventing TNF-α from binding to its receptor in the cell. Infliximab is an artificial antibody.
1 It may be expensive. 2  A typical fill can cost $1,047 or more for 1 vial of Remicade 100mg. 3  Patients in need of this drug may find most of the cost paid by an insurance company, government, or non profit organization. 4  If you are uninsured or need help with your co-pay, the manufacturer may also offer assistance. Specialty medication. This drug is considered a specialty medication, which means: 1  It may be expensive. 2  A typical fill can cost $1,047 or more for 1 vial of Remicade 100mg. 3  Patients in need of this drug may find most of the cost paid by an insurance company, government, or non profit organization
175 Reviews. 175 Reviews. Remicade is the brand name for infliximab, an injectable prescription drug that's used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, ankylosing spondylitis (a type of spinal arthritis), psoriatic arthritis, and the red, scaly skin patches of plaque psoriasis.
The bill from the hospital says it was almost $12,000. I know that Remicade is expensive, but I thought that the cost was in the $1000-$3000 range. I want to pursue this with the hospital, but I would like to have some supporting data. Thanks. When I was receiving remicade at my doctor's office in Texas I didn't have to pay anything, but when I moved to California and my doctor didn't do infusions in his office I started getting the infusion at an infusion center. Because I now get them at a facility I was told that the cost jumped from $3000 to $16000.
Infliximab Cost. Like all of the TNF inhibitors, infliximab is an expensive medication, costing about US$1650 for a 100 mg dose, and is covered by almost every medical insurance plan (though caps on many plans make it possible to be covered for only a subset of treatments in the course of a year).
In the United States, Infliximab can cost $19,000 to $22,000 a year per patient wholesale, according to Centocor. Other monoclonal antibodies targeting TNF-α are golimumab (Simponi), adalimumab (Humira), and certolizumab pegol (Cimzia). Infliximab works by binding to TNF-α. TNF-α is a chemical messenger (cytokine) and a key part of the autoimmune reaction. In rheumatoid arthritis, infliximab seems to work by preventing TNF-α from binding to its receptor in the cell. Infliximab is an artificial antibody.