If you're leaving town for a few days, and need to leave your car behind, you have many options for long term parking at Chicago O'Hare Airport. If you're leaving the country, the most convenient of these options is parking Lot D, which is next to the international terminal (Terminal 5) and costs $50 per day. An economy parking lot. As with Lots E and F, use the shuttle to get to the ATS station. The shuttle and ATS are free, by the way, and run continually, at all hours and every day. If you plan on parking for longer than 30 days in any of the O'Hare parking lots, you need to make arrangements beforehand: (773) 686-7530. Otherwise, your car will be considered abandoned and towed at your expense. Reservations for official O'Hare parking lots are not taken. You pay when you exit
If you want to save some money, you may be best off parking outside of the O'Hare Airport campus at one of the many parking lots that offer long-term parking to O'Hare travelers. However, there are alternatives to Lot D within O'Hare that can cost you as little as $9 per day. An economy parking lot. As with Lots E and F, use the shuttle to get to the ATS station. The shuttle and ATS are free, by the way, and run continually, at all hours and every day. If you plan on parking for longer than 30 days in any of the O'Hare parking lots, you need to make arrangements beforehand: (773) 686-7530. Otherwise, your car will be considered abandoned and towed at your expense. Reservations for official O'Hare parking lots are not taken. You pay when you exit
A cell phone parking lot is available at the entrance to the airport. Parking lots A, B, C, D, and the International Lot are generally priced at $51.00 for the first day, and $31 per additional day for parking up to 30 days. Economy lots E and F are priced at $17 and $9 per day respectively (all prices subject to change)
The Economy Parking Lots are the best option for long-term parking at O'Hare. The daily rates range between $10 and $17 per day, with Lot G providing the most economical on-airport parking with a rate of $10 per day. The main garage is ideal for short-term parking while the Economy lots are made for long-term, overnight parking.​. O'Hare's International Parking Lot is conveniently located adjacent to Terminal 5 for easy access and is also meant for short-term stays. O'Hare also offers Valet Parking for easy access. The main garage at O'Hare is adjacent to the domestic terminals with hourly parking located on Level 1. Hourly parking is for short-term parking (less than three hours)
A lot of these parking lots offer rates that are lower than even the economy lot at the airport, and you will actually get better service as well. And if you need long-term parking then even a savings of 3 to 4 dollars a day can add up rather quickly. The vast majority of the nearby garages offer a free shuttle service to the airport and will drop you off right at your terminal.
O’Hare Long Term Parking: If you’re looking for O’Hare long term parking – there are economy lots E and F a bit further away from the airport. There is a free train that takes people to and from the terminal from both lots E and F 24/7. Long term parking rates vary from $9 to $17 per day. Lot F has the best daily rate at $9 per day. For complete parking rates at O’Hare parking garages and lots visit the Chicago Department of Aviation
Page Content. ​ ​​​​​​​​​​. If you plan on parking your car at O'Hare International Airport for an extended period of time, then the Economy Parking Lots are the best option. The daily rates range between $10 and $17 per day, with Lot G providing the most economical on-airport parking with a rate of $10 per day. Free shuttle buses routinely operate within each of the Economy Lots, dropping passengers off at Lot E where the free Airport Transit System (ATS) then takes them to each of the terminals. The bus shuttles operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week.