Variations in the Cost of RADIESSE® Treatment. The average cost for RADIESSE® injections is $1,000 per treatment, including the $650 to $800 charge for a RADIESSE® syringe. This price does not, however, include any additional fees such as anesthesia or surgical facility. If the RADIESSE® treatment is done for aesthetic enhancement, insurance will most likely not cover the cost since this is considered an elective procedure. However, many cosmetic dermatologists and surgeons offer financing options through their practices to cover the cost of treatment.
Restylane is a thinner injectable, injected more superficially for finer lines and wrinkles. Radiesse, on average ($1,000 per syringe), costs more than Restylane and Juvederm ($600 per syringe), yet fewer injections will be necessary over time, because Radiesse can last a year and possibly longer in some patients. 
The Cost of Radiesse. The extent of the procedure may involve one or several areas of the face, and the appropriate dosage for each area may vary, making it difficult to provide a meaningful cost estimate until you are examined by a doctor. The cost for Radiesse typically ranges from $650 to $800 per syringe. If the cost of Radiesse is more than you can pay all at once, ask your doctor about payment plans and medical finance options. Contact Us | About Us | Site Map | Terms of Use | Privacy Statement. © 2005-2015 Ceatus Media Group LLC. Consumer Guide to Plastic Surgery is a registered trademark of Ceatus Media Group
The average cost of Radiesse is approximately $600 to $800 per syringe with either one or two syringes required per treatment session. Your doctor will determine the volume needed to achieve the desired result. Along with other related costs, you can expect the total cost for a treatment session to be about $900 to $1500. While this is higher than the cost of some other dermal fillers, the results last longer so patients require less frequent treatment to maintain results.
Because of the lasting effects of RADIESSE® filler treatment, its initial price is about twice that of Restylane® and three times the cost of collagen injections. The maintenance cost of RADIESSE® treatments, however, tends to be about the same as other fillers, sometimes even less. If the RADIESSE® treatment is done for aesthetic enhancement, insurance will most likely not cover the cost since this is considered an elective procedure. However, many cosmetic dermatologists and surgeons offer financing options through their practices to cover the cost of treatment.
Our prices for Radiesse at La Jolla Cosmetic Surgery Centre are $800 (1.5cc syringe) or $410 (.8cc syringe). Be sure to check our our specials page for current promotions and deals on Radiesse. 
Radiesse ® $395. The Ageless Center is the place to go for Radiesse in Atlanta. We have the best prices on Radiesse in Atlanta and the best service! Radiesse is used to sculpt the face, filling out wrinkles, depressions and cheeks and aids in the formation of collagen. Results are immediate, effective and long-lasting.
RADIESSE® Cost and Financing Information. Because varying dosages of RADIESSE® cosmetic filler are used to treat different areas of the face, it is difficult to provide an accurate cost estimate without a doctor examination. Generally, the cost of RADIESSE® ranges from $650 to $800 per syringe. For the first three months after RADIESSE® treatment, it acts as a cosmetic filler, plumping up the skin and diminishing age lines. Then, RADIESSE® microspheres stimulate natural collagen growth, actually causing new tissue development for extended results (up to two years).