You'll love all of our affordable cubic zirconia rings that look like real diamonds! Our fake diamond cz rings feature beautiful clear or white cubic zirconia stones in a wide range of shapes and sizes that glitter and glow in the light. With cubic zirconia stones coming in many shapes and carat sizes-including princess cut diamonds, emerald cut diamonds, and pear shaped diamonds-fake diamond cubic zirconia stones can provide a variety of color and style to your silver ring collection.
Cubic Zirconia Rings. Aside from bracelets, a ring is the only piece of jewelry that the wearer can actually see without having to look in a mirror. Cubic zirconia rings are certainly designed to grab attention, both from the wearer and others who may notice your hand throughout the day. 
Cubic Zirconia Rings. BERRICLE Cubic Zirconia rings are made with premium grade flawless CZ stones. Individual stone is carefully hand-set to assure the highest level of quality. Brilliance and sparkle like a real diamond. 1  Home /. Cubic Zirconia Rings. BERRICLE Cubic Zirconia rings are made with premium grade flawless CZ stones. Individual stone is carefully hand-set to assure the highest level of quality. Brilliance and sparkle like a real diamond. 1  Home 2  /. Rings /.
1 Hardness: cubic zirconia has a rating of approximately 8 on Mohs hardness scale vs. a rating of 10 for diamond. 2  Specific gravity: the density of cubic zirconia is about 1.7 times that of diamond. 3  Refractive index: cubic zirconia has a refractive index of 2.15–2.18, compared to a diamond's 2.42. The synthesized material is hard, optically flawless and usually colorless, but may be made in a variety of different colors. It should not be confused with zircon, which is a zirconium silicate (ZrSiO 4).
CUBIC ZIRCONIA. Cubic zirconia (also called CZ) is a synthetic crystalline substance used as an affordable alternative to diamonds and gemstones. Cubic zirconia is not a mineral; it is a man-made substance, not to be confused with the natural gemstone zircon. Though much less expensive than diamonds, the brilliance and crystal clarity of cubic zirconia make it one of today's most popular stone choices for an attractive, yet inexpensive, diamond-like jewelry. Most cubic zirconia is bright white to mimic diamond. However, cubic zirconia is also enhanced with other minerals and manufactured in most any color. Cubic zirconia has a rating of approximately 8 to 8.5 on the Mohs scale of hardness. The denseness of cubic zirconia makes it about 75% heavier than diamonds