In 2010, about three out of four SNAP households included a child, a person age 60 or older, or a disabled person. Most people who received SNAP benefits lived in households with very low income, about $8,800 per year on average in that year. The average monthly SNAP benefit per household was $287, or $4.30 per person per day. On average, SNAP benefits boosted gross monthly income by 39 percent for all participating households and by 45 percent for households with children. On average, 45 million people received SNAP benefits each month in fiscal year 2011, which represents a 70 percent increase over the roughly 26 million people (or one of every 11) who received benefits in 2007.
The amount of SNAP benefits you can get is based on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Thrifty Food Plan, which is an estimate of how much it costs to buy food to prepare nutritious, low-cost meals for your household. This estimate is changed every year to keep pace with food prices. After your interview, the SNAP office will send you a notice. If you do not qualify for SNAP benefits, the notice will explain why. If you do qualify, the notice will explain how much your SNAP benefit will be. It will also tell you how many months you can get SNAP benefits before you must reapply.
SNAP is heavily focused on the poor. About 92 percent of SNAP benefits go to households with incomes below the poverty line, and 57 percent go to households below half of the poverty line (about $9,895 for a family of three in 2014). 1 Its net monthly income, or income after deductions are applied for items such as high housing costs and child care, must be less than or equal to the poverty line (about $19,800 a year or $1,650 a month for a three-person family in fiscal year 2015).
The net monthly income of the household is multiplied by .3, and the result is subtracted from the maximum allotment for the household size to find the household's allotment. This is because SNAP households are expected to spend about 30 percent of their resources on food. (October 1, 2015 through September 30, 2016). 
The average SNAP recipient received about $125 a month (or about $4.17 a day) in fiscal year 2014. The SNAP benefit formula targets benefits according to need: very poor households receive larger benefits than households closer to the poverty line since they need more help affording an adequate diet. 1 Its net monthly income, or income after deductions are applied for items such as high housing costs and child care, must be less than or equal to the poverty line (about $19,800 a year or $1,650 a month for a three-person family in fiscal year 2015).
If you are undocumented, but your children were born in the U.S., you can get SNAP for your children. You do not have to tell the worker about the immigration status of people that you are not applying for, but you have to tell how many people live with you and how much money they make. 19. I am an immigrant. Once you get SNAP, you will get a plastic card that looks like a credit or debit card. It is called your EBT card (Electronic Benefit Transfer); in Montana it is called the Montana Access Card.
-You have assets of less than $100 and income less than $150 per month. -You are a migrant or seasonal farm worker with less than $100 in assets, and your last farm job is done. And, you won’t get more than $25 from your next job for 10 days after you apply for SNAP benefits. This is only if you pay more than $35 per month on medical expenses for the elderly and disabled people in your household. If you pay more than $35 per month on medical expenses for other people in the household, that money is not a deduction.
Under federal rules, to qualify for SNAP benefits, a household must meet three criteria (although states have flexibility to adjust these limits): 1  Its gross monthly income generally must be at or below 130 percent of the poverty line, or $2,144 (about $25,700 a year) for a three-person family in fiscal year 2015. 1 Its net monthly income, or income after deductions are applied for items such as high housing costs and child care, must be less than or equal to the poverty line (about $19,800 a year or $1,650 a month for a three-person family in fiscal year 2015).
The sooner you get the form in to the office, the sooner you can get your benefits, if you are eligible. If you qualify for SNAP benefits, you will get them no later than 30 days from the date the office got your application. If your household has little or no money and needs help right away, you may be able to get SNAP benefits within 7 days. After your interview, the SNAP office will send you a notice. If you do not qualify for SNAP benefits, the notice will explain why. If you do qualify, the notice will explain how much your SNAP benefit will be. It will also tell you how many months you can get SNAP benefits before you must reapply.
Compare that to the $36 you and I pay for food stamps a year. An additional $870 goes to corporate tax subsidies. The Tax Foundation has found that the special tax provisions of corporations cost taxpayers over $100 billion per year, or roughly $870 per family. But in reality, that number is much higher. 