The nephron starts as a small cup-like structure known as the Bowman’s capsule and leads into what is known as the first convoluted tubule (also known as the proximal convoluted tubule). It descends into the medulla as the loop of Henle then back into the cortex to become the distal convoluted tubule. Structure and Function of the Nephron. The nephron is a long tube that runs from the cortex into the medulla and back again to the cortex before joining another tube called the collecting duct.
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
A nephron eliminates wastes from the body, regulate blood volume and blood pressure, controls levels of electrolytes and metabolites, and regulates blood pH. In humans, a normal kidney contains 800,000 to one million nephrons. nephrons are of 2 types * juxtramedullary nephron They constitute the 15% nephron. * cortical nephron They constitute the remaining 85%.
(June 2011). The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Composed of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule, the renal corpuscle (or Malpighian corpuscle) is the beginning of the nephron. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. The glomerulus is a capillary tuft that receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation.
Function of Nephron. The nephron is the basic functional and structural unit found in the kidneys. Its main functions include regulating the concentration of sodium salts and water by filtering the kidney’s blood, excreting any excess in the urine and reabsorbing the necessary amounts.
The renal tubule is the part of the kidney nephron into which the glomerular filtrate passes after it has reached the Bowman's capsule. The first part of the renal tubule is called the proximal convoluted tubule (PCT), which is shown on the right-hand side of the diagram above. There are two parts of a kidney nephron: the renal corpuscle, and the renal tubule. (1) Renal Corpuscle. The renal corpuscle is the part of the kidney nephron in which blood plasma is filtered.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. In humans, a normal kidney contains 800,000 to one million nephrons. nephrons are of 2 types * juxtramedullary nephron They constitute the 15% nephron. * cortical nephron They constitute the remaining 85%.
The renal corpuscle of each kidney nephron has two parts-they are the Glomerulus, which is a network of small blood vessels called capillaries, and the Bowman's Capsule (also known as the Glomerular Capsule), which is the double-walled epithelial cup within which the glomerulus is contained. There are two parts of a kidney nephron: the renal corpuscle, and the renal tubule. (1) Renal Corpuscle. The renal corpuscle is the part of the kidney nephron in which blood plasma is filtered.
Kidney Health Care-David Mangusan Jr, PTRP. The nephron is the tiny filtering structure in your kidneys. Each of your kidneys contain more than a million tiny filtering nephrons that help clean your blood. Function of the Nephrons. Your nephrons help: Each nephron is composed of two main structures: the glomerulus and renal (kidney) tubule. The Glomerulus. The glomerulus is a tiny blood vessel or capillary, which looks like a ball of yarn. Actual filtering of your blood occurs in the glomerulu