Master's Degree. Your master's degree is where you will get the specialized training you need to become a licensed therapist. You will likely take classes in interpersonal, group, family, and child psychology, as well as classes on ethics in therapy, psychological theories, research methods, and clinical best practices. 
Most states require school counselors to have a master’s degree in school counseling or a related field. Programs in school counseling teach students about fostering academic development; conducting group and individual counseling; and working with parents, teachers, and other school staff. 
Certification and Licensing. Licensing requirements for school counselors vary greatly from state to state. Some states do not require licensure as long as you've received certification from a state-approved school and appropriate graduate education. Other states require you to receive licensure from your state's board of education. Some states also require you to have a valid teaching license in order to work as a school counselor, which has its own set of educational requirements. School counselors are employed in all levels of education, from elementary schools to colleges. As a school counselor, your main responsibilities revolve around working with students to address various personal, social, mental, and behavioral problems.
Educational Requirements for School Counselors. School counselors can work at every level of education, although their job duties will vary. Elementary school counselors work with teachers and school administrators to develop educational programs and identify students with special needs or emotional problems. School Counselor: Educational Requirements. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a school counselor. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling and training, job duties and licensing requirements to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Requirements. Education. Most counselors have a master’s degree or an advanced degree such as a PhD or a PsyD, but an associate’s or bachelor’s degree is a great place to begin a counseling career, particularly if a person wants to maintain flexibility in his specific counseling path. Following this training, licensure may be required, particularly if the counselor will be working one-on-one with clients, without constant supervision. Other counseling careers, such as psychoanalysis and some social work, require a PhD or other doctorate degree (such as a PsyD).
Find out about the education options and state licensure requirements to become a mental health counselor. Explore job duties and skills you'll need to succeed in this career. Schools offering Mental Health Counseling degrees can also be found in these popular choices. As a licensed mental health counselor, you'll be responsible for promoting mental health in individuals, groups and communities. You'll provide care for patients with family and marital problems, career issues, addictions, stress, depression and other life problems.
Mental Health Counselor: Education & Career Requirements. Mental health counselors require a significant amount of formal education. Learn more about the education, licensing requirements and job duties to see if this is the right career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Certification Information for Mental Health Counselors. Certification is voluntary for mental health counselors but may be a career benefit. The National Board for Certified Counselors offers a couple certification options for counselors (www.nbcc.org).
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a school counselor. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling and training, job duties and licensing requirements to find out if this is the career for you. School Counselor: Educational Requirements. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a school counselor. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about schooling and training, job duties and licensing requirements to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Requirements. Education. The first step in the education of a school counselor is to obtain a bachelor's degree-usually in counseling, psychology, education or social work, though a degree in a related field can be acceptable. 