wick. n. 1. A cord or strand of loosely woven, twisted, or braided fibers, as on a candle or oil lamp, that draws up fuel to the flame by capillary action. 2. A piece of material that conveys liquid by capillary action. tr. wick-any piece of cord that conveys liquid by capillary action; the physician put a wick in the wound to drain it. cord-a line made of twisted fibers or threads; the bundle was tied with a cord.
Full Definition of WICK. : a bundle of fibers or a loosely twisted, braided, or woven cord, tape, or tube usually of soft spun cotton threads that by capillary attraction draws up to be burned a steady supply of the oil in lamps or the melted tallow or wax in candles. See wick defined for English-language learners. See wick defined for kids.
1. wick-any piece of cord that conveys liquid by capillary action; the physician put a wick in the wound to drain it. cord-a line made of twisted fibers or threads; the bundle was tied with a cord.
Trimming the wick & extinguishing the flame. A candle or wick trimmer is a tool that looks like a pair of scissors with a receptacle to hold the trimmed wick stub. This is usually done when the candle or lamp wick is not lit, but can be done when it is burning. If the wick of the lamp or candle is too short the light will be dim. If the wick is too long then it smokes, wasting fuel and soot will be released darkening walls or fouling the glass chimney of oil lamps and wasting candles and fuel. The following are listed in order their most common usage and number.
Hypernyms (candlewick is a kind of...): taper; wick (a loosely woven cord (in a candle or oil lamp) that draws fuel by capillary action up into the flame). Meronyms (parts of candlewick): snuff (the charred portion of a candlewick). 
Keep wick trimmed to 1/8 inch at all times. The wick should be trimmed every 4 hours of burn time. Simply extinguish the flame, let the candle come to room temperature, and trim the wick to 1/8 of inch before relighting. Our Wick Trimmers make this task easy and creates a nice clean cut that properly maintains the wick. Place the bottom of the trimmer flush with the surface of the candle. Rock the trimmer back so that the “elbow” now rests on the surface of the candle. Ensure that your trimmer is at a 45-degree angle to ensure the proper wick length. This will prevent the wick from being cut too short or causing the candle to burn improperly. Bring the two handles together to trim the wick. Discard the remnant wick before lighting. To keep wick at 1/8” at all times, it is suggested to trim the wick every four hours of burn time.
Cut the wick to ¼” and when the candle or lamp is lit, the flame should be about a half an inch. This gives the maximum light without wasting any fuel. Regular scissors can be used taking care to catch the cut off wick and disposing of it in a neat and proper manner.f the wick of the lamp or candle is too short the light will be dim. If the wick is too long then it smokes, wasting fuel and soot will be released darkening walls or fouling the glass chimney of oil lamps and wasting candles and fuel. The following are listed in order their most common usage and number.
Click here for more info! Antique Brass Candle Wick Trimmer Trim your candle wick and also catch the cutting with this smooth, antique brass finished wick trimmer. This wick cutter is great for all candles including wood wicks and larger outdoor wicks.
wick-a loosely woven cord (in a candle or oil lamp) that draws fuel by capillary action up into the flame. taper. candle, wax light, taper-stick of wax with a wick in the middle. candlewick-the wick of a candle. cord-a line made of twisted fibers or threads; the bundle was tied with a cord. wick-any piece of cord that conveys liquid by capillary action; the physician put a wick in the wound to drain it