An unpaid tax lien will remain on your credit report for 10 years  from the date it's filed. A paid tax lien will remain on your  credit report for seven years from its date … of filing. 1 person found this useful. Unpaid tax liens have no limitations for how long they can appear on a credit report. Paid tax liens will show for 7 years from the date of payment. That paid date would be established by the release.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account.
A tax lien remains on a credit report, and affects a credit score and the ability to apply for new forms of credit, for 15 years if it is not paid. A tax lien that is paid will remain on a credit report for 7 years after it has been paid. This 7-year period can cause the tax lien to remain on a credit report for more than the original 15 years, or less, depending on when it was paid. A tax lien that is paid after being on a credit report for 2 years will be on the credit report for a total of 9 years. A tax lien that is paid after being on a credit report for 12 years will remain on that report for a total of 19 years. 
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. 1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account.
And the IRS can file a lien quickly, in as little as ten days after you are notified that you owe taxes. So if you get a notice that you owe Uncle Sam money, resolve it quickly before you end up with serious damage to your credit report! If tax liens have already been filed, resolve them as quickly as you can. The Fair Credit Reporting Act says that paid tax liens may be reported for seven years after they are paid. Specifically it says: “Paid tax liens which, from date of payment, antedate the report by more than seven years.” So it would depend on when you paid it, not when it was filed.
Unpaid tax liens remain 15 years from the filing date. Paid tax liens remain 7 years from the paid date of the lien. Unpaid tax liens have no limitations for how long they can appear on a credit report. Paid tax liens will show for 7 years from the date of payment. That paid date would be established by the release.
So, theoretically if you leave your tax lien unpaid, it can stick around on your credit report forever. Of course, that doesn't happen. The credit bureaus will begrudgingly remove those old, unpaid tax liens after about 15 years. Because the time frame is so long, you'll have to keep a close eye on your tax liens. They're likely to get overlooked when removal time rolls around.
How long a bankruptcy stays on your credit report depends on the type of bankruptcy you filed. Chapter 13 bankruptcies may be removed from your credit report after 7 years, whereas Chapter 7 and Chapter 11 bankruptcies can remain on your report for 10 years. Bad Mark #3: Tax Liens. While tax liens themselves can stay on your credit report for as long as your state laws allow, if you pay the tax lien off, then the tax lien should be removed after 7 years. The tax lien should show up as “paid” during this time period
California: 1  Paid or released tax liens remain on your credit report for 7 years from the date released, or 10 years from the date filed. 2  Unpaid tax liens stay on your credit report for 10 years from the date filed. 