In order to answer the question of how long does it take to become a sonographer, you must first decide what level of the sonography profession you want to go into and whether getting a job as soon as possible is your first priority. It is worth contacting a school for more information about how long it takes to become a sonographer through their program. Institutions offering quality Sonography Technician Programs include American Institute – College of Health Professionals, Sanford-Brown Institute, Keiser University and Kaplan College. Share:
Income and Outlook. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported an average income of $65,800 per year for sonographers, as of May 2011. The lowest-earning 25 percent reported incomes of up to $58,830 per year, while the highest-earning 25 percent earned $76,060 a year or more. A 2010 salary survey by the American Society of Radiologic Technologists returned similar numbers, showing an average salary of $68,821 per year. The BLS projects a 44 percent increase in demand for sonographers between 2010 and 2020, much higher than the average for all occupations.
We will also look at a sample job description, salary, and education. An ultrasound tech is another name for a diagnostic medical sonographer. The position is part patient care and part technical, using medical imaging equipment. The sonographer uses a wand that directs high frequency sound waves into patient’s body. Ultra sound tech education. It takes two years to become an ultrasound technician. You will need an associate’s degree and then will need a certification or license depending on your state. You do not have to study sonography to get this job, though. Many sonographers graduate with nursing degrees or start as radiologic technologists
More than 60 percent of ultrasound techs worked in hospitals. But as medical imaging equipment has become less expensive and more widespread, physicians have begun to employ this technology in their offices. As a result, they now account for 24 percent of locations where ultrasound techs work. Ultra sound tech education. It takes two years to become an ultrasound technician. You will need an associate’s degree and then will need a certification or license depending on your state. You do not have to study sonography to get this job, though. Many sonographers graduate with nursing degrees or start as radiologic technologists
An ultrasound technician is a very valuable job in the world of health care. Also called a diagnostic medical sonographer, an ultrasound tech uses special machines and equipment that operate on sound waves to determine or diagnose medical problems for patients. Most sonographers take a two or four year college program to become accredited or they learn in-house on the job. If you have a degree in nursing, for example, you might be offered the chance to learn ultrasound technology as well. This is a wonderful way to increase your pay and your resume.
Most sonographers enter the field through an accredited two-year educational program at a college, community college or training hospital. These provide a grounding in the basic sciences, as well as course work focusing on human anatomy and physiology, and the interpretation of ultrasound images. A 2010 salary survey by the American Society of Radiologic Technologists returned similar numbers, showing an average salary of $68,821 per year. The BLS projects a 44 percent increase in demand for sonographers between 2010 and 2020, much higher than the average for all occupations.
Like any other medical profession, on-the-job training is often a requirement for sonographers. While employers prefer candidates who are already formally trained, many hospitals and medical establishments have their own training programs for newly hired sonographers. Speciality Training. In the sonography field, there are many different branches of specialty sonographers. Many offices and hospitals require that sonographers go through a separate training in order to work as sonographers in certain fields.
Ultrasound Technician Salary. In 2013, the median salary for medical sonographers was $66,410/year, according to the BLS. The BLS adds that the bottom 10% of ultrasound technologists made $44,8400/year, whereas the top 10% made $92,070/year*. Numerous factors contribute to an ultrasound tech’s salary. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the job outlook for diagnostic medical sonographers/ultrasound technologists looks very promising. The projected job growth between 2012 and 2022 is 46% in the United States. (The average job growth projection for all occupations in the U.S. is 14%).