Lawson Edward Kamau Brathwaite was born Lawson Edward Brathwaite in Bridgetown, Barbados, on May 11, 1930, the son of Hilton Brathwaite and Beryl Gill Brathwaite. Raised in Bridgetown, Barbados, Brathwaite pursued an interest in both literature and jazz during his years at Harrison College in the late 1940’s. Brathwaite’s first significant publication, “Shadow Suite,” appeared in Bim, the Barbadian literary journal. His early poetry shows the influence of T. S. Eliot.
The prolific and acclaimed Caribbean poet Edward Kamau Brathwaite was born Lawson Edward Brathwaite (BRATH-wayt) to Hilton and Beryl Gill Brathwaite. Raised in Bridgetown, Barbados, Brathwaite pursued an interest in both literature and jazz during his years at Harrison College in the late 1940’s. Brathwaite’s first significant publication, “Shadow Suite,” appeared in Bim, the Barbadian literary journal. His early poetry shows the influence of T. S. Eliot.
Kamau Brathwaite was born in the capital city of Barbados, Bridgetown on May 11, 1930. Brathwaite stands as the most recognizable symbol of Barbados literature. Unlike many of his peers Brathwaite maintains strong ties with the community of the West Indies (especially in the realm of education).
Edward Kamau Brathwaite was born Lawson Edward Brathwaite in Bridgetown, as the son of Hilton Brathwaite, a warehouse clerk, and the former Beryl Gill. After graduating with honors in 1953, Brathwaite studied for a year for a teacher's certificate. In England he felt an outsider but entered the British colonial service, and left in 1955 for the Gold Coast (now Ghana), where he worked at the textbook department of the Ministry of Education.
Edward Kamau Brathwaite (born May 11, 1930) is one of the major voices in the Caribbean literary canon. Brathwaite is the 2006 International Winner of the Griffin Poetry Prize, for his volume of poetry, Born to Slow Horses. 1 Kamau Brathwaite (b.1930) at books and writers. 2  Griffin Poetry Prize biography. 3  Kamau Brathwaite in Gale Contemporary Black Biography. 4  Edward Kamau Brathwaite at Writers of the Caribbean. 5  Edward Brathwaite at the Post-Colonial Web.
(Edward) Kamau Brathwaite was born in Bridgetown, Barbados, on May 11, 1930. He attended Harrison College in Barbados and graduated with honors from Pembroke College, Cambridge, England, in 1953. 
Edward Kamau Brathwaite 1930-. Contemporary Barbadian poet, playwright, literary critic, and scholar. The following entry presents criticism of Brathwaite's poetry from 1968 through 2001. Brathwaite is one of the Caribbean's most honored writers. He is known chiefly for The Arrivants (1973), a trilogy of poetry volumes in which a uniquely Caribbean identity is set forth, incorporating ties to Africa and the lasting effects of slavery. Born in Barbados, Brathwaite has long been compared to another famous Caribbean poet, the Nobel Prize-winning Derek Walcott.
Life Edit. Kamau Brathwaite was born Lawson Edward Brathwaite in Bridgetown, the capital city of Barbados. In 1945 he attended school at the Harrison College in Barbados and in 1949 he won the Barbados Scholarship and attended Cambridge University. 1 Kamau Brathwaite (b.1930) at books and writers. 2  Griffin Poetry Prize biography. 3  Kamau Brathwaite in Gale Contemporary Black Biography. 4  Edward Kamau Brathwaite at Writers of the Caribbean. 5  Edward Brathwaite at the Post-Colonial Web.
A professor of Comparative Literature at New York University, Brathwaite is the 2006 International Winner of the Griffin Poetry Prize, for his volume of poetry Born to Slow Horses. In 1992 Brathwaite took up the position of Professor of Comparative Literature at New York University, subsequently dividing his residence between Barbados and New York. In 2002 the University of Sussex presented Kamau Brathwaite with an Honorary Doctorate.
Biography [edit]. Born Lawson Edward Brathwaite in the capital city of Bridgetown, Barbados, he started his secondary education in 1945 at Harrison College in Bridgetown. In 1992 Brathwaite took up the position of Professor of Comparative Literature at New York University, subsequently dividing his residence between Barbados and New York. In 2002 the University of Sussex presented Kamau Brathwaite with an Honorary Doctorate.