Lipids. Lipids are organic compounds that contain the same elements as carbohydrates: carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. However, the hydrogen-to-oxygen ratio is always greater than 2:1. More important for biological systems, the carbon-to-hydrogen bonds are nonpolar covalent, which means that lipids are fat soluble and will not dissolve in water. There are four biologically important lipids: 1  Fats. 2  Waxes.
Calcium and phosphorus, which are minerals, help build strong bones. Healthy kidneys help regulate the level of phosphorus in your blood by removing extra phosphorus. If your kidneys aren't working properly, eventually you may have high phosphorus levels in your blood (hyperphosphatemia).
Organic compounds include carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Carbohydrate s – groups of molecules that contain carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen. Hydrogen and oxygen occur in the same ratio as in water (2:1) Carbohydrates include sugars and starches. Lipids – molecules that are insoluble in water, but dissolve in other lipids and alcohol. Lipids contain hydrogen, oxygen, and carbon, but oxygen occurs in lower quantities in lipids than in carbohydrates. Some lipids also contain phosphorus. Triglycerides (neutral fats) – composed of glycerol and fatty acids. The ratio of fatty acids to glycerol is 3:1. Solid triglycerides are known as fats, liquid triglycerides are known as oil
All living things contain organic macromolecules: Lipids, proteins, carbohydrates and nucleic acids. Characteristic for these organic molecules is that they are made up of only a small number of elements: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and to smaller amounts nitrogen, phosphorus and sulfur. 1 Lipids are also an important component of the cell membrane. 2  Lipids consist of glycerol and fatty acids tails. 3  The fatty acid tails are long chains of carbon and hydrogen that contribute to the non-polar behavior of fats-they don't mix with (polar) water.
If, for example, it can be shown that butter-oil contains no nitrogen or phosphorus, or if it does contain minute, but distinctly smaller, quantities of these elements, than does the less potent butter-fat,2 we can exclude from the list of possibilities all those substances which contain either nitrogen or phosphorus. 
Cholesterol is a type of lipid (fat). Lipids are substances that do not dissolve in water but are soluble in organic solvents such as chloroform or dry cleaning fluids. Other important types of lipid include triglycerides and fatty acids. Lipids have several important roles in the body, providing: Several other lipids are also found in your body. Some are vital components of your brain. An important group includes phospholipids, which resemble triglycerides in structure – the main difference is that one of the fatty acid groups is replaced by one that contains phosphorus.
Choose low-phosphorus foods. The best way to limit phosphorus in your diet is to limit foods highest in phosphorus, including: 1  Fast food, convenience foods and processed foods, which may be full of phosphorus additives. 2  Beverages that contain phosphorus (look for the letters phos in the ingredient list). Healthy kidneys help regulate the level of phosphorus in your blood by removing extra phosphorus. If your kidneys aren't working properly, eventually you may have high phosphorus levels in your blood (hyperphosphatemia).
1 Peanut Butter-Along with a large amount of protein, peanut butter is also a phosphorus rich food. 2  Nutritional experts recommend organic, natural peanut butter over sweetened, fat saturated varieties. 3  Corn-This popular plant in its many varieties also carries phosphorus to the body. Foods Rich in Phosphorus. Here are some of the best options for getting a lot of phosphorus into your diet. 1  Whole Wheat and Bran Mixes-Any combination of bran flakes, whole wheat baked goods, or similar items gets a large amount of phosphorus into your daily diet, along with fiber and other nutritional benefits.