How To Take A Screenshot. Note: Sometimes the print screen key is abbreviated and you may notice it combined with ‘Sys Rq’, but if you need a point of reference it is located next to the ‘Scroll Lock’ key on your keyboard. Tip: If you want to capture only an active window, press alt + Print Screen. Taking a Screenshot: Mac. To capture the entire screen, press Command+Shift+3. To capture a specific window, press Command+Shift+4, then spacebar, then click a window. To capture a select area, press Command+Shift+4, then drag your mouse over the area to capture. Note: All screenshots are, by default, saved to the desktop
To capture a screen, simply press the PrtScn key. On some keyboards, this key may have a different name, such as Prtsc or Prnt Scrn. To take a screenshot of one window rather than the full screen, click the window to make it active, and press Alt-PrtScn. Use the Snipping Tool. Microsoft preinstalls a basic screenshot program -- the Snipping Tool -- on its systems. This is useful if you want to capture a small part of a screen. In Windows 8, type snipping tool from your Start screen to search for it. In Windows 7, open Start and enter snipping tool in the search bar. Go to the window in which you want to take a screenshot and select New on the Snipping Tool. It defaults to a rectangular snip, allowing you to draw a box around the capture area, but you can change to free-form, window and full-screen shots
How to Take a Screenshot on a Chromebook. 1  Press the Ctrl + Window Switcher keys at the same time. 2  This will capture your entire screen area. 3  If you just want to capture a specific area of the screen, press Ctrl + Shift + Window Switcher at the same time. 4  Chrome OS gives you a notification when a screenshot is captured. It's easy to take a screenshot of your adventures in Jamaa!How to Take a Screenshot on a PC. 1  Press the PrtScr (Print Screen) key. 2  On most keyboards, this key is located near the upper-right corner. 3  Open a picture editing program like Paint.
Press the Print Screen (Prt Sc) key on your keyboard. This will capture an image of your entire screen and copy it to the clipboard. The dimensions of the image will be the same as your desktop resolution. 1  The PrtSc button may be labeled PrtScn, Prnt Scrn, Print Scr, or something similar. Save a full-screen screenshot directly to a file in Windows 8. When you press the Windows key + Prt Sc, you will save a full-screen screenshot directly to a file without having to paste it into another program first. The file is saved to the Screenshots folder in your Pictures folder.
Windows XP. Press the Print Screen key on your PC keyboard. This may be labeled as PrintScreen or PrtScn. This copies your screenshot onto the clipboard. Open Microsoft Paint. This is a photo editing software tool that comes with Windows. Select the Edit menu and click Paste. Alternatively, hold Ctrl-V to paste the screenshot into Paint. Select the File menu and click Save As. From this menu, you will be able to choose the place to save your image, as a PNG or JPG format. Mac OSX. Hold Command-Shift-3 to take a shot of the entire screen. This image will be saved on your desktop. Hold Command-Shift-4, then, using your cursor, select a part of the screen for a screenshot. This selected area
You’ll be greeted by the Snipping Tool. Your mouse arrow should now be in the form of a cross-hair, All you do to take a picture of a certain area of the screen is click on any part of your window, and drag as to make a box. Once that’s done another window will come up giving you the chance to save by clicking the floppy disk in the top left hand corner.
snvv/iStock/Getty Images. Windows gives you a couple of ways to take a screenshot. The Print Screen key shortcut captures a screen or active window; the Snipping Tool allows you to capture specific areas of your screen. If you want to share screenshots, you can also use the Share charm in Windows 8. Use the Snipping Tool. Microsoft preinstalls a basic screenshot program -- the Snipping Tool -- on its systems. This is useful if you want to capture a small part of a screen. In Windows 8, type snipping tool from your Start screen to search for it. In Windows 7, open Start and enter snipping tool in the search bar. Go to the window in which you want to take a screenshot and select New on the Snipping Tool. It defaults to a rectangular snip, allowing you to draw a box around the capture area, but you can change to free-form, window and full-screen shots
1 Hit the PrtScn button to take a screenshot of the entire screen: When using Windows, pressing the Print Screen button (located in the top right of the keyboard) will take a screenshot of your entire screen. Mac. 1  Hit the Command, Shift and 3 keys together to take a screenshot of the entire screen: When using Mac, pressing the Command, Shift and 3 buttons together will take a screenshot of your entire screen. 2  Use the Grab tool to take a screenshot: An alternative to the keyboard shortcuts on Mac is to use the Grab tool.