User Rating. Naan is a flatbread found in Iran, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, and other surrounding countries. Naan is served for dipping or stuffed with a variety of meats and vegetables. Topping can also be placed on top of the bread. 
For the Indian film, see Naan (film) . Naan, nan or khamiri is a leavened, oven-baked flatbread found in the cuisines of West, Central and South Asia. With the migration of the Roma people from India, it spread to other parts of West Asia. The Naan burger is a hamburger served on naan bread. The naan burger has very similar ingredients to normal burgers, but is sometimes made with ham. The use of flatbread creates a taste experience different from hamburgers made with bread. Some naan burgers are vegetarian, containing no meat.
Naan, nan or khamiri is a leavened, oven-baked flatbread found in the cuisines of West, Central and South Asia. The Naan burger is a hamburger served on naan bread. The naan burger has very similar ingredients to normal burgers, but is sometimes made with ham. The use of flatbread creates a taste experience different from hamburgers made with bread. Some naan burgers are vegetarian, containing no meat.
1 Lightly oil grill. 2  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 3  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 4  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 5  Remove from grill, and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared. 1 In a large bowl, dissolve yeast in warm water. 2  Let stand about 10 minutes, until frothy. 3  Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft dough. 4  Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth.
Place the naan in a tea towel-lined dish. Repeat with the rest of the naans and serve. Cook's Notes: * If you would like to make this gluten-free, you can substitute in 2 1/4 cups of a gluten-free all-purpose flour mix for the regular flour, plus 1 1/4 teaspoons of xanthum gum. 
1 At grill side, roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle. 2  Lightly oil grill. 3  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 4  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 5  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 1 Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft dough. 2  Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth. 3  Place dough in a well oiled bowl, cover with a damp cloth, and set aside to rise. 4  Let it rise 1 hour, until the dough has doubled in volume.
1 Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 2  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 3  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 4  Remove from grill, and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared. 1 In a large bowl, dissolve yeast in warm water. 2  Let stand about 10 minutes, until frothy. 3  Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft dough. 4  Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth.
1 Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 2  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 3  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 4  Remove from grill, and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared. 1 Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft dough. 2  Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth. 3  Place dough in a well oiled bowl, cover with a damp cloth, and set aside to rise. 4  Let it rise 1 hour, until the dough has doubled in volume.
1 Lightly oil grill. 2  Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. 3  Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. 4  Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 5  Remove from grill, and continue the process until all the naan has been prepared. 1 Stir in sugar, milk, egg, salt, and enough flour to make a soft dough. 2  Knead for 6 to 8 minutes on a lightly floured surface, or until smooth. 3  Place dough in a well oiled bowl, cover with a damp cloth, and set aside to rise. 4  Let it rise 1 hour, until the dough has doubled in volume.
At grill side, roll one ball of dough out into a thin circle. Lightly oil grill. Place dough on grill, and cook for 2 to 3 minutes, or until puffy and lightly browned. Brush uncooked side with butter, and turn over. Brush cooked side with butter, and cook until browned, another 2 to 4 minutes. 