(1) A form of cellular respiration that occurs when oxygen is absent or scarce. (2) The process of generating energy by the oxidation of nutrients and using an external electron acceptor other than oxygen. Supplement. Obligate anaerobes strictly rely on anaerobic respiration to produce energy. 
Anaerobic respiration is a type of respiration that does not use oxygen. It is used when there is not enough oxygen for aerobic respiration. It can be summarised by the following equation: glucose → lactic acid (+ energy released). 
Anaerobic respiration. Unlike aerobic respiration, anaerobic respiration does not need oxygen. It is the release of a relatively small amount of energy in cells by the breakdown of food substances in the absence of oxygen. 
Not to be confused with Lactic acid fermentation. Anaerobic respiration is a form of respiration using electron acceptors other than oxygen. Although oxygen is not used as the final electron acceptor, the process still uses a respiratory electron transport chain; it is respiration without oxygen. In order for the electron transport chain to function, an exogenous final electron acceptor must be present to allow electrons to pass through the system. Anaerobic respiration is used mainly by prokaryotes that live in environments devoid of oxygen. Many anaerobic organisms are obligate anaerobes meaning that they can respire only using anaerobic compounds and will die in the presence
Aerobic vs. Anaerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration, which takes place in the mitochondria of your cells when oxygen is present, produces energy from the complete breakdown of glucose, as well as water and carbon dioxide. These byproducts are easily expelled when you breathe. Anaerobic respiration occurs in your body when there is not enough oxygen to completely break down glucose for your energy needs. When you exercise vigorously, you force your muscles to work harder, until they eventually reach a point where your lungs can no longer supply sufficient oxygen.
In plant and animal cells, it is a process in which energy is released from food molecules such as glucose without requiring oxygen. Some aerobic plants and animals are able to use anaerobic respiration for short periods of time. For example, during a sprint, human muscles can respire anaerobically. The body is paying back the oxygen debt built up during the sprint. . Anaerobic respiration is the process by which non-oxygen dependent organisms breath. It is mostly commonly used in the process of fermentation.