This chili sauce works well as a side sauce for roast chicken or fried chicken, and also makes a fabulous marinade as well as a dip! The Advantage of Asian chili sauce is that it can be used with nearly anything you might be eating or cooking, including western dishes like hot wings or spicy pasta dishes. Usually the chilies are roasted first, then blended to form a paste that is then simmered with fried shallots and garlic, shrimp paste, sugar, and fish sauce / soy sauce. The oil-based chili pastes are made in a similar way, but with soybean, palm, or other oils added. Chili Sauce Recipes:
1 In a blender, blend garlic, red chilli pepper, salt, sugar and vinegar to a fine paste. 2  Mince the shallots. 3  Heat the oil lightly, saute the shallots gently till the rawness disappear. 4  Switch off the heat and add the chilli garlic paste, blend it well. 5  Check for salt and sugar. 6  Add fish sauce if you are using. 
A chile sauce that’s a blend of chiles, garlic, salt, and vinegar. Similar to Asian chile pastes, the mixture is generally a little looser in consistency and often a little milder. It's commonly used to flavor Asian soups, sauces, and stir-fries. It’s often used in the classic Thai dipping sauce, nuoc cham. how to prep: Spicy Roast Chicken Combine soy sauce with chili garlic sauce. Brush the mixture on the inside and outside of a whole chicken and roast in a 350°F oven. Chicken Lettuce Wraps Cook ground chicken with diced onions and mild green chiles until cooked through.
Asian chili sauces are usually made with asian hot red chilies (Thai bird's eye chilies are popular). Usually the chilies are roasted first, then blended to form a paste that is then simmered with fried shallots and garlic, shrimp paste, sugar, and fish sauce / soy sauce. The oil-based chili pastes are made in a similar way, but with soybean, palm, or other oils added. Chili Sauce Recipes:
Homemade Chili Garlic Sauce Recipe (Tuong Ot Toi). Weeks ago we started a conversation about how to make Vietnamese chili garlic sauce without preservatives. Josh Levine began the whole thing by asking me if Huy Fong made a preservative-free version of their ubiquitous Rooster-brand sauces. Lili and Chuck ended up sharing their family recipes
Sriracha sauce is a type of hot sauce or chili sauce made from a paste of chili peppers, distilled vinegar, garlic, sugar, and salt. Chili sauce is a condiment prepared with chili peppers and red tomato as primary ingredients. Chili sauce may be hot, sweet or a combination thereof, and may differ from hot sauce in that many sweet or mild varieties exist, which is typically lacking in hot sauces.
My goal with this recipe was to create something akin to the Chili Garlic Sauce made by Huy Fong; that sauce is one of my favorites and I do believe I succeeded. It was back when I made this homemade Sriracha recipe last fall that I realized there’s not much to making a delicious homemade hot chile sauce. And the one you see here is even easier, to be honest, because it’s not cooked. All you need to do is blend up some chiles with garlic, your choice of vinegar, a little sweetener and a bit of salt…then you end up with red hot awesomeness. I used a bunch of fresh chiles from my garden in this garlic chile sauce recipe.
A blend of tomatoes, chiles, onions, peppers, vinegar, sugar and spices used as a condiment or seasoning. Sriracha is the generic name for a Southeast Asian hot sauce, named for the town of Si Racha. It is made from chile peppers, vinegar, garlic, sugar and salt. Season: available year-round. Substitutions: 1 cup tomato sauce + 1/4 cup brown sugar + 2 tbsp vinegar + 1/4 tsp cinnamon + dash of ground cloves + dash of ground allspice = 1 cup chili sauce. 
Mexican chili sauce is usually made with Mexican hot chilies (often they are dried first), red or green, which are simmered in a base of vinegar and sometimes tomato. Louisiana sauce is made of aged red or green chilies simmered with vinegar and salt/sugar. Usually the chilies are roasted first, then blended to form a paste that is then simmered with fried shallots and garlic, shrimp paste, sugar, and fish sauce / soy sauce. The oil-based chili pastes are made in a similar way, but with soybean, palm, or other oils added. Chili Sauce Recipes:
This is the sauce that is the most identifiable with the eating masses, mostly due to the large white rooster. Some people call it “cock sauce”. Go figure. It’s typically made from sun-ripened chili peppers, vinegar, garlic, sugar, and salt. Of the three sauces, I’ve used this the most. I like the heat and the flavor, though I really couldn’t say that the garlic flavor shines through when I use this in combination with other things like soy sauce to make sauces.