This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age. Fertilized eggs will hatch 21 days after the hen begins incubating (sitting on) the nest. Caution is advised with some broody hens; they may keep laying or collect eggs into a giant nest that they are unable to properly incubate.
Sorry, there seems to be some kind of glitch in the system. He is asking at what age a female will start to lay. It can vary anywhere from 16 to 22 weeks for production breeds or 20 to 28 weeks for others. Very slow growers may take longer. It is also effected by the time of year. Coming to point of lay can be delayed by winter.
Report Abuse. chickens actually dont need a rooster to lay eggs. it take about 16-20 weeks of age before that begin laying eggs. I have 6 chickens that i got in late april and they didnt start laying untill september. They make great little pets and they get real friendly with you i hope this helps. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There are a couple of different factors that are going to influence when your birds will start laying for you. Age: Hens usually don't start producing until about 6-8 months of age. Peak production is usually around 1 year to 18 months, and especially for layers, declines after that. Birds that are too young or too old won't lay
In very general terms, most pullets lay their first eggs between five and six months old. However, there is a wide range of normal that extends from 18 weeks to 12 months. My Silkie, Freida, didn’t lay her first egg until she was 14 months old. 
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
Confidence votes 26. This would depend on the breed of chicken you own, but roughly, the chickens will be at least 4 months old before you see the first eggs being laid. There are some breeds that will not produce eggs until they are over six months old and even then, they may only lay one or two eggs per week. Correct. 
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day.
My production hens didn't lay till about 24 weeks and my SLW didnt lay till 7 mths of age, so it can vary alot, but they will lay so just hang in there. He is asking at what age a female will start to lay. It can vary anywhere from 16 to 22 weeks for production breeds or 20 to 28 weeks for others. Very slow growers may take longer. It is also effected by the time of year. Coming to point of lay can be delayed by winter.