It is recomended after one year toss them. They will not make you sick. If you decide to keep them you will have to use more and amount needed comes in to question. Using too much or too little could ruin you dish. On the issue of sodas they have an expiration date on the bottle or can. Once again it won’t make you sick it just may taste bad after the date. gooch (5704) “Great Answer” (0) Flag as… ¶. You can use baking soda as a green abrasive (in place of cleanser) long after you have stopped putting it in yr choc. chip cookie batter.
Throw them out. They probably wont make you sick, but they will be horribly rancid. Any recipe that you use them in will end up tasting very off and the addition of the spices will actually do more harm to the flavor than any good. Unfortunately, spices do not have a long shelf life. That's unfortunate because they can be so darned expensive.
No Follow. Dried herbs and spices rarely go bad–as in make you sick if you use them–but they certainly lose their flavor over time. To prevent a pileup in your spice drawer of flavorless seasonings, label the bottles when you bring them home. 
The good news is that spices don’t spoil in such a way that will make you sick, but they can lose their flavor. Different spice sellers offer different timelines for shelf life. Spice Island gives ground spices 2 to 3 years and whole spices 3 to 4 years. However, the best way to know if the spices on your shelf are still good is by color and smell. If either has faded, it may not be worth cooking. Even if a spice doesn’t smell as strong as it once did, heat can release the last of its volatile oils, giving off a lovely aroma. Boil a pot of water on your stove and add whichever spices you want your house to smell like cardamom, cinnamon, cloves or ginger. You can also throw in some citrus peels.
The good news is that spices don’t spoil in such a way that will make you sick, but they can lose their flavor. Different spice sellers offer different timelines for shelf life. Spice Island gives ground spices 2 to 3 years and whole spices 3 to 4 years. However, the best way to know if the spices on your shelf are still good is by color and smell. If either has faded, it may not be worth cooking. 1. Brewed potpourri. Even if a spice doesn’t smell as strong as it once did, heat can release the last of its volatile oils, giving off a lovely aroma. Boil a pot of water on your stove and add whichever spices you want your house to smell like—cardamom, cinnamon, cloves or ginger. You can also throw in some citrus peels
Dried herbs will last from 6 months up to three years. Spices however can last much longer, especially if they are not ground. Whole black pepper or whole seeds used as spice … , will always last longer than the ground up varieties. As time passes, spices will become less potent. Spices that are kept cool in an airtight and dark container will last for many many years. Some degradation over time will occur, but this is only to be expected. I myself … have no problems eating 15 year old black pepper.
Although Martha Stewart (and probably most professional chefs) recommend using ground spices within 6 months, most home cooks do not use enough of most spices to warrant purchasing new ones every 6 months. If your spices are older (but not expired) you can use a little bit more to make up for the loss of potency. 
Over time, spices will lose their potency and not flavor your food as intended. As a general rule, whole spices will stay fresh for about 4 years, ground spices for about 3 to 4 years and dried leafy herbs for 1 to 3 years. To find out storage times for specific herbs and spices, you can consult our Keep It or Toss It database.
Salmonella-laced spices could already be in your home. Learn what to do to keep your family safe. Undercooked meat is often the culprit in cases of food poisoning, but the spices you flavor the meat with could also make you sick. A forthcoming report from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) says that common imported spices are contaminated with salmonella at twice the rate of all other imported foods. 