Skin structure. The skin is the largest organ of the body. It has three main layers, the epidermis, the dermis and the subcutaneous layer. The epidermis is an elastic layer on the outside that is continually being regenerated. It includes the following: 1  Keratinocytes-the main cells of the epidermis formed by cell division at its bas
The epidermis is the outer layer of skin, which is composed of several layers of cells. It provides a barrier of protection from foreign substances. The epidermis is thickest in large animals like horses. It includes multiple types of cells, including keratinocytes, melanocytes, Langerhans cells, and Merkel cells. Each of these cells has special functions. Keratinocytes provide a protective layer that is constantly being renewed in a process called keratinization. In this process, new skin cells are created near the base of the epidermis and migrate upwards.
It is the only visable organ and its efficient functioning is essential for health. It is a complex structure composed of; the Epidermis, Dermis, Hypodermis, Subcutis and fascia and is richly supplied with an abundance of blood vessels and nerve endings. Waste products are excreted in the form of sweat. Glands associated with hair follicles are used to excrete waste products. To enable efficient excretion of waste products in this fashion, it is important that the pores of the equine skin are kept clean and clear.
The underlying layer of the skin, known as the dermis, is much thicker but much more uniform in structure than the epidermis (see diagram 5.1). It is composed of loose connective tissue with a felted mass of collagen and elastic fibres. The skin is the first of the eleven body systems to be described. Each chapter from now on will cover one body system. The skin, sometimes known as the Integumentary System is, in fact, the largest organ of the body. It has a complex structure, being composed of many different tissu
This layer of skin is located at the base of the epidermis and connects the epidermis to the dermis layer below. It also serves as a protective barrier between the epidermis and the dermis. Several skin diseases, including a number of autoimmune conditions, can damage the basement membrane zone. Each of these cells has special functions. Keratinocytes provide a protective layer that is constantly being renewed in a process called keratinization. In this process, new skin cells are created near the base of the epidermis and migrate upwards.
Par 8 9 THE SKIN The skin is a highly organised, complex system of nerves, tissue and cells designed to harmonise the horse’s metabolism with his internal and external environment. Structurally, the skin consists of the epidermis and the dermis. It is the largest, heaviest organ in the horse’s body. Its healthy condition is of vital importance to health and survival. The epidermis is made up of several stratified layers of tough, non-vascular cells that vary in thickness. 
Skin is the soft outer covering of vertebrates. Other animal coverings such as the arthropod exoskeleton have different developmental origin, structure and chemical composition. The epidermis is composed of the outermost layers of the skin. It forms a protective barrier over the body's surface, responsible for keeping water in the body and preventing pathogens from entering, and is a stratified squamous epithelium, composed of proliferating basal and differentiated suprabasal keratinocytes.
The thinnest areas found on the ventral abdomen, lower neck and face. The main functions of skin can be divided into the following categories: 1 ~ Support Skin is designed to provide support to the body as a whole; cells are laid down in a fashion that enables flexible support. Waste products are excreted in the form of sweat. Glands associated with hair follicles are used to excrete waste products. To enable efficient excretion of waste products in this fashion, it is important that the pores of the equine skin are kept clean and clear.
The subcutaneous fat within the skin helps protect the body from minor knocks and the elasticity prevents tearing. The skin is an incredibly tough structure, this is important to the barrier characteristic function of skin. Waste products are excreted in the form of sweat. Glands associated with hair follicles are used to excrete waste products. To enable efficient excretion of waste products in this fashion, it is important that the pores of the equine skin are kept clean and clear.