Theory. ER is a network of membranous sacs that form interconnected tubules, vesicles and cisternae. In 1945, Ernest Fullam, Keith Porter and Albert Claude were observed the endoplasmic reticulum. The ER membrane is a continuation of the outer nuclear membrane. The eukaryotic cells have ER. The endoplasmic reticulum is a highly versatile organelle involved in synthesis and transport of proteins, glycoproteins, and lipoproteins; synthesis of cholesterol, steroids, phospholipids, and triglycerides; it participates in degradation of glycogen, and in the metabolism of xenobiotics.
Smooth endoplasmic reticulum is found in a variety of cell types (both animal and plant), and it serves different functions in each. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum also contains the enzyme glucose-6-phosphatase, which converts glucose-6-phosphate to glucose, a step in gluconeogenesis. The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification of drugs. The smooth ER is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. The lacy membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum were first seen in 1945 using electron microscopy.
Proteins, carbohydrates, phospholipids, and other molecules formed in the endoplasmic reticulum are transported to the Golgi apparatus to be biochemically modified during their transition from the cis to the trans poles of the complex. The Golgi Apparatus. The Golgi apparatus (GA), also called Golgi body or Golgi complex and found universally in both plant and animal cells, is typically comprised of a series of five to eight cup-shaped, membrane-covered sacs called cisternae that look something like a stack of deflated balloons.
What is the endoplasmic reticulum? The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of membrane-enclosed tubules and sacs, called cisternae. This network extends from the nuclear envelope throughout the cytoplasm (remember that the outer membrane of the nuclear envelope is continuous with the rough endoplasmic reticulum). There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) - smooth and rough. The rough kind is covered with ribosomes on its outer surface and is involved in protein processing and sorting.
These secretory proteins are packaged into vesicles before being transported out of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Membrane factory: The rough endoplasmic reticulum grows by adding phospholipids and membrane proteins to its own network. It assembles phospholipids with precursors in the cytosol. These ribosomes are called membrane bound ribosomes and are attached to the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum. Ribosomes on the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum are responsible for the assembly of various proteins. The process of protein assembly is called translation.
Transcript of The Structure & Function of the Rough and Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum. If a polypeptide is translocated into the ER from a membrane bound ribosome it is known as co-translational translocation [3]. The ER is a system of branching tubules and flattened sacs which extend throughout the cytosol [2]. It is continuous with the outer nuclear membrane [2,5,12]. The endoplasmic reticulum is the largest organelle in a eukaryotic cell [3].
FUNCTION OF SER • The smooth endoplasmic reticulum lacks ribosomes and functions in lipid metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, and detoxification and is especially abundant in mammalian liver and gonad cells. • It also synthesizes phospholipids. This fundamental difference is indicative of their functions. • The endoplasmic reticulum synthesizes molecules, while the sarcoplasmic reticulum stores and pumps calcium ions. The sarcoplasmic reticulum contains large stores of calcium, which it sequesters and then releases when the muscle cell is stimulated.
Functions of the Rough and Smooth Endoplasmic Reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum is a network of flattened sacs and tubules that perform various functions in our cells. This network is divided into two regions that differ in both, function and structure. These regions are called, the rough endoplasmic reticulum and the smooth endoplasmic reticulum. These ribosomes are called membrane bound ribosomes and are attached to the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum. Ribosomes on the cytosolic side of the endoplasmic reticulum are responsible for the assembly of various proteins. The process of protein assembly is called translation.
ER is a network of membranous sacs that form interconnected tubules, vesicles and cisternae. In 1945, Ernest Fullam, Keith Porter and Albert Claude were observed the endoplasmic reticulum. The ER membrane is a continuation of the outer nuclear membrane. The endoplasmic reticulum is a highly versatile organelle involved in synthesis and transport of proteins, glycoproteins, and lipoproteins; synthesis of cholesterol, steroids, phospholipids, and triglycerides; it participates in degradation of glycogen, and in the metabolism of xenobiotics.