Voile is a soft, sheer fabric, usually made of 100% cotton or cotton blends including polyester. The term comes from French, and means veil. Because of its light weight, the fabric is mostly used in soft furnishing. Full-length curtains in hot countries are made with voile and used as window treatments, mosquito nets etc. When used as curtain material they are similar to net curtains. 
If the voile curtain will be used on its own, choose a thicker fabric, like cotton, or buy a double width of a sheer, delicate fabric to allow you to bunch the fabric together to add an extra layer for privacy. Voile curtains are usually woven with a close, high quality weave. Net curtains are usually available only in white and off-white, and are made from synthetic fibres. Voile is made from natural fibres or a blend of natural and synthetic fibres. Common fabrics range from cotton to silk, making voile curtains easy to dye. As with most natural fibres, these curtains tend to drape well.
Voile Curtain Colours. Voile curtains add a stylish, romantic element to any room. They are easy to hang and can be matched to most decorative themes, provided the right colour and type of curtain is chosen. Voile colours are available in just about any colour imaginable, with or without embellishments and patterns. Net curtains are usually available only in white and off-white, and are made from synthetic fibres. Voile is made from natural fibres or a blend of natural and synthetic fibres. Common fabrics range from cotton to silk, making voile curtains easy to dye. As with most natural fibres, these curtains tend to drape well.
Voile is a soft, sheer fabric, usually made of 100% cotton or cotton blends including linen or polyester. The term comes from French, and means veil. Because of its light weight, the fabric is mostly used in soft furnishing. In hot countries, voile is used as window treatments and mosquito nets. When used as curtain material, voile is similar to net curtains
Voile curtains are similar to net curtains, but come in a wider range of colours and designs. Net curtains are usually available only in white and off-white, and are made from synthetic fibres. Voile is made from natural fibres or a blend of natural and synthetic fibres. Common fabrics range from cotton to silk, making voile curtains easy to dye. As with most natural fibres, these curtains tend to drape well.
Cotton voile is the lightest grade of cotton fabric, and was supposedly a favoured fabric for veils. It is soft, lightweight, and is machine washable. Many people use it for clothing as it is quite soft against the skin, but it is also used to make curtains because of its versatility. Types of Voile Fabrics. Voile is usually made from a blend of different materials, and is used for a variety of purposes. There are different types of voile fabrics today, and the most common ones are open weave, embroidery, polyester blends, and cotton.
For example, it is possible to get a cotton voile curtain in a panel or sash style curtain. It is best for buyers to learn the different types of voile fabrics and the different types of curtain styles and decide which combination suits their needs. Types of Voile Fabrics. Voile is usually made from a blend of different materials, and is used for a variety of purposes. There are different types of voile fabrics today, and the most common ones are open weave, embroidery, polyester blends, and cotton.
: a soft, light fabric that you can see through slightly and that is used for making curtains, summer clothes, etc. : a fine soft sheer fabric used especially for women's summer clothing or curtains. 