How to Work at Home as an LPN. Because the type of work an LPN does is typically hands-on, the specifics of an online job will be quite different than an on-site LPN’s job. However, the medical background and the people skills an LPN has can give him or her an edge in other medical-related work at home jobs. Similar to medical coding, medical billing is another possible work-at-home opportunity for an LPN. However, unlike coders, medical billers are more likely to be working in their own home businesses.
The average salary of a vet tech is around $29,710 a year, slightly lower than that of a medical assistant. However, the predicted job outlook for this career is a bit better, with a predicted growth rate of 52%. So, although it involves longer training and a lower salary, job prospects are substantially higher. Medical assisting is one of the most in-demand careers in healthcare. In order to become a medical assistant, candidates may be able to train on the job or can choose from a variety of medical assistant training programs that last anywhere from 8 months to two years.
Salaries for both LPNs and medical assistants depend on many things, including location, the type of medical facility in which you’re employed, the job description and experience. Some positions ask for either an LPN or medical assistant because the job description is the same for both professions. There may not be a pay difference between the professions in this case. However, some jobs may demand an LPN because specific nursing duties are required and a pay difference will exist. Most LPN jobs exist in hospitals, nursing care facilities and home health care. These positions often consist of night, weekend and holiday shifts and may be full or part time. LPNs working in these settings often care for the elderly and infirm, or patients hospitalized due to illness or surgery.
There are no requirements for certification for this position, but many employers prefer candidates who are Certified Medical Reimbursement Specialists. The average salary of a medical billing and coding specialist is around $32,350 per year, a bit higher than that of medical assistants. Medical assisting is one of the most in-demand careers in healthcare. In order to become a medical assistant, candidates may be able to train on the job or can choose from a variety of medical assistant training programs that last anywhere from 8 months to two years.
In a primary care setting, there may be little difference between an LPN and a medical assistant. However, an LPN working in a hospital or nursing home will have different job duties than a medical assistant working in a physician’s office. Most LPN jobs exist in hospitals, nursing care facilities and home health care. These positions often consist of night, weekend and holiday shifts and may be full or part time. LPNs working in these settings often care for the elderly and infirm, or patients hospitalized due to illness or surgery.
LPNs must also pass an examination and become licensed before they can begin working in this career. On average, LPNs earn around $40,380 per year, which is higher than the average salary of medical assistants. However, this career has a predicted growth rate of just over 20%. This is substantially lower than that of medical assisting, meaning that there will be fewer openings for LPNs. Medical assisting is one of the most in-demand careers in healthcare. In order to become a medical assistant, candidates may be able to train on the job or can choose from a variety of medical assistant training programs that last anywhere from 8 months to two years.
You have a better chance to grow as an LPN because the training and options on where to work, sub-specialty etc are abound. Medical billing/coding is just that and nothing more, but it could be something you can do part time while also working as a nurse, and as a nurse money is quite good. 
Medical Coding. Medical coding is one way that an LPN can leverage on-site experience into an online job. Insurance companies as well as medical BPOs (companies that outsourcing to insurance companies and medical offices) hire remote medical coders. Similar to medical coding, medical billing is another possible work-at-home opportunity for an LPN. However, unlike coders, medical billers are more likely to be working in their own home businesses.
You can get more information from the American Academy of Professional Coders (AAPC), American Health Information Management Association (AHIMA), American Medical Billing Association (AMBA), RN-coder.com, and American Association of Clinical Coders and Auditors (AACCA) websites. Rep for a large hospital for 4 years prior to becoming an RN. I was responsible for the billing and coding in both positions. I made about half of what I do as an RN.