Lymph nodes are located in groups, and each group drains a specific area of your body. You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include: You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
Lymph nodes are very small clusters of immune cells that function as part of the body’s immune system. There are more than 600 lymph nodes throughout the body, but the ones most frequently enlarged or swollen are the lymph nodes in the neck, under the chin, in the armpits, and in the groin.
1 Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand. 2  A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 3  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. Which lymph nodes are swollen can help identify the problem. 1  The glands on either side of the neck, under the jaw, or behind the ears commonly swell when you have a cold or sore throat.
In addition, it is possible that your lymph nodes are swelling for reasons that are still unclear. Anxiety causes a lot of very strange reactions in the body, and many people experience anxiety differently. While the neck is the most common place to find swollen lymph nodes, it may also occur in other areas, such as: Anxiety can cause a lot of extremely unusual symptoms. In rare cases, anxiety may cause a feeling of having swollen lymph nodes or swollen glands, and for those with health anxiety, this sensation can be incredibly frightening. Interestingly, it's unclear if anxiety or stress actually causes swollen lymph nodes.
Lymph nodes are an important part of your body’s immune system. Swollen neck lymph nodes can result from infection, malignancy and autoimmune disorders. Swollen neck lymph nodes are also known as lymphadenitis, lymphadenopathy, swollen nodes, or swollen glands. There are more than 600 lymph nodes throughout the body, but the ones most frequently enlarged or swollen are the lymph nodes in the neck, under the chin, in the armpits, and in the groin.
Lymph nodes often swell in one location when a problem such as an injury, infection, or tumor develops in or near the lymph node. Which lymph nodes are swollen can help identify the problem. 1  The glands on either side of the neck, under the jaw, or behind the ears commonly swell when you have a cold or sore throat.
Introduction. Swollen lymph glands are usually a sign of infection and tend to go down when you recover. However, they can sometimes have a more serious cause and may need to be seen by a doctor. Lymph glands (also called lymph nodes) are pea-sized lumps of tissue that contain white blood cells. 
Search Now. Find an Infectious Disease Specialist. Swollen lymph nodes in the neck can be a sign of an infectious disease, such as the common cold, mumps, rubella, strep throat, ear infection, or mononucleosis, as well as an infected wound. There are more than 600 lymph nodes throughout the body, but the ones most frequently enlarged or swollen are the lymph nodes in the neck, under the chin, in the armpits, and in the groin.
1 A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 2  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. Which lymph nodes are swollen can help identify the problem. 1  The glands on either side of the neck, under the jaw, or behind the ears commonly swell when you have a cold or sore throat.