She usually moves them because she doesn't feel the spot they are in is safe enough. When a mother is worried about her kittens, she may move them to hide them form … everyone and everything, even you. If she feels very threatened, she may kill her kittens as a form of protecting them. the baby kittens will start to move around in the womb from when the cat is 6 weeks pregnant...until the second they are born. you might want to ask your vet though and … make sure.
Best Answer: I am not for sure all i do know is that cat's are usually pregnant for about 64 days. I found this article. A queen's gestation period typically runs from 57 to 69 days, with the average of 63 to 64 days. I like to use 63, because it is nine weeks, equating to human pregnancy average of nine months, making it easier to remember. Once mom has her first kitten she may or may not start nursing it. Most moms do not spend a lot of time taking care of their kittens until they are all born and done and then mom will settle down and start cleaning and nursing them.
A cat's pregnancy go for 64 days. The kittens are feelable at about a month along and you can feel them move two weeks before the mother give birth. When she starts scratching for a place to give birth, you know you are only hours absent from being a serogate mom. She will start producing milk when the kittens are born. My dog be pregnant last july and had 5 pups...i couldnt feel them until approximately 2 weeks before she gave birth. so probley about 2 weeks.
A cat's pregnancy typically lasts 65 days, though it can take as few as 63 or as many as 71 days in some cases, according to WebMD. During her pregnancy, your little girl becomes more docile than usual, and she won't go into heat. 
Her milk actually doesn't come in until the kittens are about 48 hrs old. When the kittens are first born they will have colostrum from her which is a watery liquid full of antibodies and nourishment that they need for the first day or so. Once mom has her first kitten she may or may not start nursing it. Most moms do not spend a lot of time taking care of their kittens until they are all born and done and then mom will settle down and start cleaning and nursing them.
Once she starts weaning the kittens, talk with your vet then about getting her spayed. You shouldn't get her spayed while she is nursing. You may want to think about switching litters for a little bit once the mama cat shows the kittens the litterbox. Its kind of hard to determine, when the kittens would be born by just knowing the kittens are kicking. Without actually seeing the mom and feeling her belly it would be hard to tell.
Report Abuse. If you can see kittens moving, just means they are getting in position to be born. You may have up to 2 more weeks before she has them. Get mom spayed when they are 8 weeks old and keep the kittens for at least 10-12 weeks. Ocimom · 7 years ago.
Start stocking up on kitten chow. Also, you may want to purchase some kitten formula. This is good for the mama cat while she is nursing and will help her with weaning once the kittens get 4 weeks old. I use the powder form when I am fostering feral kittens. Its kind of hard to determine, when the kittens would be born by just knowing the kittens are kicking. Without actually seeing the mom and feeling her belly it would be hard to tell.
Best Answer: &nbsp Typically, their nipples pink up at about 21 days. Some queens will remain pink for the whole pregnancy, while other begin to fade. Cats are pregnant from about 62 to 68 days. Usually when I am able to feel movement it is no more than about 10 to 14 days until the kittens are born. There are other clues that she is close to delivery. About 3 to 4 days before the babies come the queens will go belly up
My cat has been pregnant twice, you can not tell when a cat is pregnant right away... it is usually 3 weeks to a month after you start seeing the belly of the cat get bigger... Once mom has her first kitten she may or may not start nursing it. Most moms do not spend a lot of time taking care of their kittens until they are all born and done and then mom will settle down and start cleaning and nursing them.