Antarctica is the coldest place on Earth. The coldest natural temperature ever recorded on Earth was −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F) at the Russian Vostok Station in Antarctica on 21 July 1983. Antarctica is colder than the Arctic for two reasons. First, much of the continent is greater than 3 kilometres (2 mi) above sea level, and temperature decreases with elevation.
The Antarctic is almost a geographic opposite of the Arctic, because Antarctica is a land mass surrounded by an ocean. The open ocean allows the forming sea ice to move more freely, resulting in higher drift speeds. However, Antarctic sea ice forms ridges much less often than sea ice in the Arctic. The Arctic is a semi-enclosed ocean, almost completely surrounded by land. As a result, the sea ice that forms in the Arctic is not as mobile as sea ice in the Antarctic. Although sea ice moves around the Arctic basin, it tends to stay in the cold Arctic waters.
Antarctica (/aentˈɑrktɪkə/ æntˈɑrktɪkə /or/) aentˈɑrtɪkə æntˈɑrtɪkə 'is earth s, southernmost continent containing The Geographic. South pole it is situated In the antarctic region Of The, southern hemisphere almost entirely south Of The, antarctic circle and is surrounded By The. southern ocean Antarctica, on average, is the coldest, driest, and windiest continent, and has the highest average elevation of all the continents. Antarctica is considered a desert, with annual precipitation of only 200 mm (8 in) along the coast and far less inland.
Report Abuse. Antarctica is the coldest place on Earth. The coldest natural temperature that was ever recorded on Earth was −89.2 °C (−128.6 °F) at the Russian Vostok Station in Antarctica on 21 July 1983. Antarctica is colder than the Arctic for two reasons. First, much of the continent is greater than 3 kilometres (2 mi) above sea level, and temperature decreases with elevation.
Confidence votes 26.1K. The Antarctic regions are about 30 degrees F. colder than the Arctic regions, because of the Antarctic continent, the land mass that makes up about 10% of the earth's surface. The antarctic has a land mass underneath the ice … , and the arctic is ice with no land.     Perhaps the most common misconception about the Arctic and Antarctic is that they are very similar.
Both the Arctic (North Pole) and the Antarctic (South Pole) are cold because they don’t get any direct sunlight. The Sun is always low on the horizon, even in the middle of summer. In winter, the Sun is so far below the horizon that it doesn’t come up at all for months at a time. The Arctic ice is shrinking because the ocean under the ice is warming. The warming ocean means Earth’s climate is getting warmer. The Antarctic’s climate is also warming, but not as fast, because it is less affected by the warming ocean.
The Arctic isn't quite as cold as Antarctica, and here are some reasons why: A massive ice sheet covers almost all of the Antarctic continent. Although glaciers are common in the Arctic, Greenland has the only permanent ice sheet, but it's only about 1/8 the size of the Antarctic ice sheet. The ice cap over the Arctic Ocean is always moving because of the winds above it and the ocean currents beneath it. This movement causes large cracks (called leads) to open up-even in winter-and this allows ocean heat to escape into the air. Land loses heat faster than water.
As the Arctic Ocean surrounds the North Pole, the ice cover is sea ice that floats on the ocean (only about 10-20 feet / 3-6 meters thick), instead of that massive ice sheet (more than 2 miles / 3 kilometers thick in places). The ice cap over the Arctic Ocean is always moving because of the winds above it and the ocean currents beneath it. This movement causes large cracks (called leads) to open up-even in winter-and this allows ocean heat to escape into the air. Land loses heat faster than water.
No. Antarctica is about 30 degrees colder than the Arctic, because Antarctica is a land mass with a polar ice cap nearly two miles thick; the Arctic is only sea water and ice. 
While thickness varies significantly within both regions, Antarctic ice is typically 1 to 2 meters (3 to 6 feet) thick, while most of the Arctic is covered by sea ice 2 to 3 meters (6 to 9 feet) thick. Some Arctic regions are covered with ice that is 4 to 5 meters (12 to 15 feet) thick. The Arctic is a semi-enclosed ocean, almost completely surrounded by land. As a result, the sea ice that forms in the Arctic is not as mobile as sea ice in the Antarctic. Although sea ice moves around the Arctic basin, it tends to stay in the cold Arctic waters.