Wolf Blitzer was born on March 22nd 1948 in Augsburg, Germany. He is an American journalist and a television news anchor with a net worth of $16 million. His fame and wealth is from his career as a reporter, as a host of the talk show “Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer”, and as a military affairs reporter.
Wolf Blitzer is an award winning television news anchor and a journalist. He was born in the year 1948 and celebrates his birthday every year on March 22. His full name is Wolf Isaac Blitzer and was born in Augsburg, Germany but spent most of his childhood in Buffalo, New Jersey, United States. He works for CNN and has been on the network since 1990. He is best known as the host of the popular CNN program, The Situation Room
Wolf Blitzer was born in 22nd of March, 1948 in Augsburg, Germany. His real name is Wolf Isaac Blitzer. He is a journalist as well as the TV news anchor. He is best known for his anchoring in the popular show “The Situation Room”. He has done MA from the Johns Hopkins University. So, there is no chance for their divorce in any time. He has the net worth of $16 million including his annual salary of $5 million. Though he has placed his job in jeopardy many times for his actions, he is one of the most successful hosts in US. He is Jewish supporter as well as atheist as well. He is very gay in nature
Answers. Woft Blitzer is an American anchor worked at CNN news. Now, his yearly salary is $2 million. His net worth is $16 million. The other income source and salary are not available. 1  Arpana Ria
Wolf Blitzer's Salary. $5 Million Per Year. Wolf Blitzer net worth and salary: Wolf Blitzer is a German-American journalist and television news anchor who has a net worth of $16 million dollars. Wolf Isaac Blitzer was born in Augsburg, Germany in March 1948. Wolf's parents were Holocaust survivors and he moved to Buffalo, New York. 
No Reviews. Wolf Blitzer is a renowned television news anchor and a journalist. He was born in the year 1948 and celebrates his birthday every year on March 22. His full name is Wolf Isaac Blitzer. He works for CNN and has been on the network since 1990. He is best known as the host of the popular CNN program, The Situation Room. He also hosts the dayside show Wolf, and serves as the lead political anchor for the network. He was born in Augsburg, Germany