A categorical imperative, on the other hand, denotes an absolute, unconditional requirement that must be obeyed in all circumstances and is justified as an end in itself. Kant also applies the categorical imperative in Grounding for the Metaphysics of Morals on the subject of failing to cultivate one's talents.. He proposes a man who if he cultivated his talents could bring many goods, but he has everything he wants and would prefer to enjoy the pleasures of life instead.
The Categorical Imperative is the central concept in Kant ’s ethics. It refers to the “supreme principle of morality ” (4:392), from which all our moral duties are derived. The basic principle of morality is an imperative because it commands certain courses of action. A categorical imperative has the general form, “Do A!” or “you ought to do A.” Kant argues that moral rules are categorical imperatives, since the content of a moral prohibition is supposed to apply quite independently of our desires and preferences.
categorical imperative. n. 1. (Philosophy) (in the ethics of Kant) the unconditional moral principle that one's behaviour should accord with universalizable maxims which respect persons as ends in themselves; the obligation to do one's duty for its own sake and not in pursuit of further ends. Compare hypothetical imperative. n.
Definition of CATEGORICAL IMPERATIVE. : a moral obligation or command that is unconditionally and universally binding. ADVERTISEMENT. 
What matters is the law. What matters is the Judge's unbiased reason. So it is in ethics as it is in law. The Categorical Imperative is devised by Kant to provide a formulation by which we can apply our human reason to determine the right, the rational thing to do -- that is our duty. 
Kant s theory is an example of a deontological moral theory according to these theories, the rightness or wrongness of actions does not depend on their consequences but on whether they fulfill our duty. Kant believed that there was a supreme principle of morality, and he referred to it as The Categorical Imperative. 
Section II. Section III. The form of imperative contrasting with hypothetical imperatives is the categorical imperative. This type of imperative purports to be true, or as is sometimes said, valid, apart from any presupposed end or purpose to be achieved by acting as it commands. 
Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) argued that moral requirements are based on a standard of rationality he dubbed the “Categorical Imperative” (CI). Immorality thus involves a violation of the CI and is thereby irrational. Kant holds that the fundamental principle of our moral duties is a categorical imperative. It is an imperative because it is a command (e.g., “Leave the gun. Take the cannoli.”) More precisely, it commands us to exercise our wills in a particular way, not to perform some action or other.
Kant formulates the Categorical Imperative in several different ways but according to the well-known Universal Law formulation, you should …act only according to that maxim by which you can at the same time will that it be a universal law.. A categorical imperative has the general form, “Do A!” or “you ought to do A.” Kant argues that moral rules are categorical imperatives, since the content of a moral prohibition is supposed to apply quite independently of our desires and preferences.
The categorical imperative (German: kategorischer Imperativ) is the central philosophical concept in the deontological moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant. Introduced in Kant's 1785 Grounding for the Metaphysics of Morals, it may be defined as a way of evaluating motivations for action. Kant also applies the categorical imperative in Grounding for the Metaphysics of Morals on the subject of failing to cultivate one's talents.. He proposes a man who if he cultivated his talents could bring many goods, but he has everything he wants and would prefer to enjoy the pleasures of life instead.