Effects of Freezing Temperatures on Plants. For all but the most tender plants, it doesn’t matter whether the conditions produced a frost or a freeze. What’s important is how cold it got and for how long. One of the biggest worries of gardeners is the threat of freezing weather and frosts that can harm or kill plants and damage crops. Here’s what you need to know to protect tender plants from freezing temperatures.
Petunias have a base temperature of about 39 degrees F and are considered cold tolerant; however, freezing temperatures can kill petunias because the plants' cells need the sun's energy for photosynthesis. Once petunias have endured frost or freeze injury, there is not much you can do to save the plant. At times, frost-injured plant parts can be cut back, and plants may outgrow the damage. Petunias can survive the light frost of southern climates, as petunias will come back in the spring following a hard freeze.
Frost. The beginning of the freezing point is when frost occurs. Frost happens when the outside temperature hits the dew point, and then drops down to freezing, leaving a thin layer of ice on the plants.
Frost or freezing occurs when the temperature of air falls below the freezing point of water (0 °C, 32 °F, 273.15 K). This is usually measured at the height of 1.2 m above the ground surface. There is a rather subjective scale to show several degrees of frost severity: 1  slight frost: 0 to −3.5 °C (32.0 to 25.7 °F). 
Overview. Tomato plants do not like freezing temperatures. Gardeners can take a number of steps to protect their tomato plants from damage, no matter what type of tomatoes they are growing. If that is not possible, the damage may also be mitigated by other means. 
Effects of Cold on Petunias. Petunias have a base temperature of about 39 degrees F and are considered cold tolerant; however, freezing temperatures can kill petunias because the plants' cells need the sun's energy for photosynthesis. When temperatures dip to freezing, these cells freeze and burst, and the plant dies. An outside temperature of 26 degree F or below lasting more than four hours is considered a hard freeze, and this can kill even cold-tolerant plants like petunias. Once petunias have endured frost or freeze injury, there is not much you can do to save the plant. At times, frost-injured plant parts can be cut back, and plants may outgrow the damage. Petunias can survive the light frost of southern climates, as petunias will come back in the spring following a hard freeze.
Freezing Point. All plants have different freezing points. The amount of water the plants have in their cells and the cell size determines when the plants will freeze. Frost occurs when the temperature hits freezing at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, or 0 degrees Celsius. Frost happens when the outside temperature hits the dew point, and then drops down to freezing, leaving a thin layer of ice on the plants.
Comments. Submit. The National Weather Service issues a freeze warning for plants when the temperature drops below 32 degrees Fahrenheit and the wind speed is above 10 miles per hour. There is a frost/freeze warning if the wind is below 10 miles per hour. 
Both [the frost advisory and the freeze warning] are only issued during the growing season. A Frost Advisory is issued when the predicted temperature is expected to fall to 36 degrees or lower in the next 3 to 30 hours during the growing season. So temperatures 35 to 40 range would also dictate a frost advisory. A Freeze Warning is issued when there is an 80% or greater chance that the temperatures are expected to fall to 32 degrees (F) or lower in the next 3 to 30 hours during the growing season. 
Frost (also called white or hoarfrost) occurs when air temperatures dip below 32°F and ice crystals form on plant leaves, injuring, and sometimes killing, tender plants. Wind also influences frost. If the air is still and windless, the coldest air settles to the ground. The temperature at plant level may be freezing, even though at eye level it isn’t. A gentle breeze, however, will prevent the cold air from settling and keep temperatures higher, protecting your plants.