Here’s how to do it. Go to the search site you want to set as the new default, like www.google.com, and click or tap the ellipses in the top right corner of the browser and select Settings. Scroll down and select 'View advanced settings'. Scroll down to 'Search in the address bar with', select 'Bing (www.bing.com)' and select 'Add new'. Google should appear in the list of search engines. Select it and click/tap 'Add as default'. That's it. Google will be the default search engine in Edge. 
As of now, Bing will be the only search engine for Microsoft Edge. You have no option to change it. However, it looks like this option will be available, because as per the reports-there is an option button for the purpose, but greyed out. Maybe Microsoft will come up with the option in the subsequent builds. 
How to change your search engine in Microsoft Edge: Step One. Microsoft Edge features a combo search/address bar, but it’s set to use Microsoft Bing by default. In order to switch it to something else, you’ll need to change it in the settings. 
Here's how to change it. 1. Open Edge. 2. Go to Settings by tapping the three-dot button on the top right. MORE: Top 10 New Windows 10 Features. 3. Scroll down and press the Advanced Settings box. 4. Tap the dropdown arrow at the end of the Search the address bar with field. You may have to scroll down to find it. 5. Select Add New. 6
How to add a search engine to Edge. To add a search engine to Edge, it’s quite a task. So here are the steps. 1  Open Edge and go to your search engine homepage (e.g. google.com). 2  Then tap the Settings icon on the top right and select Settings. 3  Afterwards, click View Advanced Settings button. 4  You’ll see the drop-down at “Search in the address bar with.” Open the menu and select “Add new.”
Change Your Default Search Engine. To change your search provider, click or tap the menu button — that’s the button with three dots at the top-right corner of the MIcroosft Edge window. Select “Settings” in the menu. Scroll down in the Settings panel and tap or click the “View advanced settings” button near the bottom. Scroll down again in the Advanced settings list and you’ll see the “Search in the address bar with” box. Click or tap it and select “Add new.”. You’ll see a list of available search providers. Select the search engine you want to use and click or tap “Add as default.”. If the search engine you want to use doesn’t appear here, be sure you’ve visited the search engine’s homepage first
Change Your Default Search Engine. To change your search provider, click or tap the menu button — that’s the button with three dots at the top-right corner of the MIcroosft Edge window. Select “Settings” in the menu. Scroll down in the Settings panel and tap or click the “View advanced settings” button near the bottom.
Step 2: Open the search engine’s home page you want to set as default in Edge browser. For instance, if you want to set DuckDuckGo as your default search in Edge, visit DuckDuckGo.com in your Edge browser, and then click the star button to add the URL to Favorites. Step 3: Click More actions button (…) and then click Settings to open the same. Step 4: On the Settings pane, scroll down, and then click View advanced settings button to reveal advanced settings. Step 5: Here, under Search in the address bar with, you’ll see Bing (www.bing.com) entry.
How to change or remove a search engine in Edge. Changing Edge’s default search engine is super easy. You just need to access the Settings pane through the icon on the top right then click View Advanced Settings button. Then select your default search engine under “Search in the address bar with” drop-down menu. So here are the steps. 1  Open Edge and go to your search engine homepage (e.g. google.com). 2  Then tap the Settings icon on the top right and select Settings. 3  Afterwards,