Aortic calcification, which is also called sclerosis, is a buildup of calcium deposits in the aortic valve in the heart. The aortic valve allows blood to flow through the heart, and the calcium buildup that accumulates there can impede the flow of blood as the heart pumps. The first sign of aortic calcification is often a heart murmur that a doctor hears through a stethoscope. The doctor will then run tests such as an electrocardiogram, a test that measures the electrical impulses from the heart. An echocardiogram is another common test for aortic valve stenosis.
Calcification occurs when the main artery of the body, known as the aorta, hardens as it passes through the abdomen. Before we discuss what the calcified abdominal aorta treatment is, we will explain why this condition occurs. We’ve all heard about cholesterol and the negative effects it can have on our body. Atherosclerosis is the process by which damage to the artery wall leads to clogging of the artery. Calcification of the aorta is almost always associated with this condition. There are several factors which can cause this condition to occur. As you age, you are more likely you to suffer from a calcified abdominal aorta.
67% helpful. Carolyn Strimike and Margie Latrella answered... Marked tortuosity and calcification of the aorta on a chest x-ray means the aorta (which is the main blood vessel that receives the blood directly from the heart) has many acute bends and has become hardened. 
The aorta is the body's largest artery. It carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. The inner lining of any artery can develop fatty plaques that harden. This process is called atherosclerosis. When the lining of an artery is affected by atherosclerosis, calcium can deposit in the areas of atherosclerosis. Seeing calcification in the aorta most likely means there is some atherosclerosis in your largest artery. Such calcifications are often seen in people as they get older.
--N.K., Flushing, N.Y. A. The calcium in your aorta is probably the result of atherosclerosis. This occurs when fatty substances form plaque on and in the inner wall of an artery. The deposits are called atheromas. 
Aortic valve sclerosis — thickening and stiffness of the valve and mild aortic calcification — usually doesn't cause significant heart problems, but requires regular checkups to make sure your condition isn't worsening. Aortic valve calcification may be an early sign that you have heart disease, even if you don't have any other heart disease symptoms. Calcification and stenosis generally affect people older than age 65. When it occurs in younger people, it's often caused by:
Lowering one's blood pressure may help manage aortic calcification. A heart murmur detected by a stethoscope is the first sign of aortic calcification. Calcium is normally found in the blood, but it can stiffen the aortic valve in some people. View slideshow of images above. The first sign of aortic calcification is often a heart murmur that a doctor hears through a stethoscope. The doctor will then run tests such as an electrocardiogram, a test that measures the electrical impulses from the heart. An echocardiogram is another common test for aortic valve stenosis.
Aortic valve calcification is a condition in which calcium deposits form on the aortic valve in the heart. These deposits can cause narrowing at the opening of the aortic valve. This narrowing can become severe enough to reduce blood flow through the aortic valve, a condition called aortic valve stenosis. Aortic valve calcification may be an early sign that you have heart disease, even if you don't have any other heart disease symptoms. Calcification and stenosis generally affect people older than age 65. When it occurs in younger people, it's often caused by:
Report Abuse. A calcified aorta means that it is stiff due to calcium deposits in the artery wall. This condition is known as atherosclerosis which is a type of vascular disease. Aortic calcification is more common in older patients and those with cardiovascular disease and high cholesterol. Calcification occurs when the element calcium replaces carbon in living tissue. It is what makes dinosaur bones last so long-this is the process of fossilization (carbon does not last as long as calcium; if it isn't calcified, it isn't going to last). It's strange that it would be occurring in your aorta.