Acids. Food acids are added to make flavors sharper, and also act as preservatives and antioxidants. Common food acids include vinegar, citric acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, fumaric acid, and lactic acid. Acidity regulators. Acidity regulators are used to change or otherwise control the acidity and alkalinity of foods. 
Food preservatives which have definite evidence that they are harmful are banned from the use in foods. Sulfites. An allergy to sulphites, a preservative found in many forms in foods such as dried fruit, wine and proceeded potatoes is reasonably common. Allergic reactions can manifest in many different forms depending on the severity of the allergy, but can be dangerous in some individuals.
Sodium benzoate. Sodium benzoate is a preservative used in acidic liquids such as vinegar, juices or soft drinks. It is also found in food products such as margarine and fast food hamburgers. Sodium benzoate is also used in fireworks and makes a great rocket fuel. Happy 4th of July! 8.
Often added to milk and meat products, these preservatives are used in many foods, including drinks, low-sugar products, cereals and meats. Both temporarily inhibit the proper functioning of digestive enzymes and cause headaches, stomach upset, asthma attacks and hyperactivity in children. 
Direct food additives are those that are added to a food for a specific purpose in that food. For example, xanthan gum -- used in salad dressings, chocolate milk, bakery fillings, puddings and other foods to add texture -- is a direct additive. Most direct additives are identified on the ingredient label of foods.
Sodium nitrite, a commonly used preservative in hot dogs, deli meats and bacon, has been linked to higher rates of colorectal, stomach and pancreatic cancers. And the list goes on and on…. Many of the food additives that are perfectly legal to use in US foods are banned in other countries. More than 3,000 food additives -- preservatives, flavorings, colors and other ingredients -- are added to US foods, and this is one of the key reasons why I recommend avoiding most of the processed foods that contain them.
BHA is used to keep foods from going rancid and is often added to high-fat foods, like butter, meat and baked goods, as well as cereals, snack foods, dehydrated potatoes, beer and chewing gum. BHT keeps foods from changing flavor and color and helps prevent them from developing an odor. Sodium Benzoate. Sodium benzoate inhibits the growth of bacteria, mold and yeast in acidic conditions. The preservative is commonly used in carbonated beverages, fruit juices, pickles, salsa and dip.
March 02, 1989 | By Bill Stokes. Following is a list of a baker`s dozen of common additives you are likely to find in your packaged and processed food: - BHA and BHT are butyl compounds used to prolong shelf life of foods containing fat and oil. They are added to breakfast cereals, enriched rice and many convenience foods. 
Physical preservation entails refrigeration and drying. They are used in foods, cosmetics, and many other products. Preservative food additive s reduce the risk of foodborne infections, decrease microbial spoilage, and preserve fresh attributes and nutritional quality. This method is the most traditional and ancient type of preserving—ancient methods such as pickling and adding honey prevent microorganism growth by modifying the pH level. The most commonly used antimicrobial preservative is lactic acid. Common antimicrobial preservatives are presented in the table.