Answer: If you thawed the steaks in the refrigerator, you’ve got some time. Steak that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional 3 to 5 days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. You also can safely refreeze the steak within that same timefra
Meat can be safely thawed in cold, not hot, water. Be sure to thaw meat in a leak-proof package or bag. Submerge the bag in cold water, changing water every 30 minutes so that is stays cold. It is important to keep the meat out of the food spoilage temperature range of 70° to 100°F. However, once thawed, these bacteria can become active again. Never thaw meat on the counter or let it sit out of the refrigerator for more than two hours. In the summer, reduce this time to 1 hour. Never defrost meat in hot water.
A couple of things to keep in mind with this defrosting method: -Some areas of the fridge are colder than others, which could prolong the thawing process. -After thawing in the fridge, poultry, ground meat and stew meat will stay good in the fridge for 1-2 days. Red meat cuts will stay good for up to 3-5 days. -You can refreeze meat thawed in the fridge. You may lose quality, but it will be safe for consumption. -Thaw meat on the bottom shelf to prevent juices from accidentally dripping onto other foods.
When determining how long thawed food will be good, you have to remember that decomposition will pick up from where it left off when the food was frozen. How long it took to f … reeze will have a bearing on it, too. If the ground beef was 3 days old when frozen, you might try cooking it from frozen. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.
After thawing in the refrigerator, ground meat should be used as soon as possible. Once meat has been frozen and thawed, it will deteriorate more rapidly than if it had never been frozen. Whole meat cuts (chops, roasts) will remain useable for another 3-5 days in the refrigerator before cooking. However, once thawed, these bacteria can become active again. Never thaw meat on the counter or let it sit out of the refrigerator for more than two hours. In the summer, reduce this time to 1 hour. Never defrost meat in hot water.
Refrigerator Thawing. You can thaw meat in the refrigerator with some advanced planning because it takes some time. For example, a frozen turkey takes 24 hours to thaw for every 5 lbs. of weight. 
How long it took to freeze will have a bearing on it, too. If the ground beef was 3 days old when frozen, you might try cooking it from frozen. If it was freshly ground when frozen, the thawed meat will likely be good for 2 days. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge.
Report Abuse. thawed meat should be cooked within 3-4 days of defrosting, unless its fish and then cook it asap. You can refreeze meat that has been thawed, as long as you first thawed it in the fridge, not the microwave or on the counter. Thawed meat will last in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can refreeze the meat as long as you have thawed it in the refrigerator and not let it sit out at room temp. Source(s): wish I could rememeber what part of the Dallas Morning News I read this in!
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge.
How long does meat stay good after it is defrosted?   Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.