The species name rosmarus is Scandinavian. The Norwegian manuscript Konungsskuggsja, thought to date from around AD 1240, refers to the walrus as rosmhvalr in Iceland and rostungr in Greenland (walruses were by now extinct in Iceland and Norway, while the word evolved on in Greenland). The archaic English word for walrus— morse —is widely thought to have come from the Slavic languages, which in turn borrowed it from Finno-Ugric languages. Compare морж (morž) in Russian, mursu in Finnish, morša in Northern Saami, and morse in French.
The walrus (Odobenus rosmarus) is a large Arctic marine mammal with flippers, a broad head, short muzzle, small eyes, tusks and whiskers. Walruses are cinnamon brown in color. They are able to turn their hind flippers forward to aid in movement on land. Their front flippers are large and each has five digits. The worldwide walrus population is about 250,000 animals. Pacific walruses number more than 200,000. The Pacific walrus population was severely reduced by hunting several times in the past. Their numbers have rebounded after these severe reductions.
Classification/taxonomy. There are three subspecies of walrus. Atlantic walruses live in the coastal areas along northeastern Canada to Greenland. Pacific walruses live in the northern seas near Russia and Alaska. Laptev walruses live in the Laptev Sea of Russia. Walruses weigh from 600 to 1,500 kilograms (1,320 to 3,300 lbs.) and can be as long as 3.2 meters (10.5 feet), according to the Animal Diversity Web (ADW), a database maintained by the Museum of Zoology at the University of Michigan.
The walrus' scientific name, Odobenus rosmarus, is Latin for tooth-walking sea-horse.. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The mustached and long-tusked walrus is most often found near the Arctic Circle, lying on the ice with hundreds of companions. Walruses use their iconic long tusks for a variety of reasons, each of which makes their lives in the Arctic a bit easier. They use them to haul their enormous bodies out of frigid waters, thus their tooth-walking label, and to break breathing holes into ice from below.
Walrus. The Walrus' Latin name, Odobenus rosmarus, means tooth-walking sea cow.. The walrus uses its prominent tusks to pull its bulk from the ocean onto pack ice. The process looks like the walrus is walking on its tusks, hence the name. The walrus is a single species but has two subspecies—the Pacific Walrus and the Atlantic Walrus. Both subspecies are similar in appearance, diet and behavior with the Pacific Walrus tending to be a little larger.
This species is subdivided into three subspecies: the Atlantic walrus (O. r. rosmarus) which lives in the Atlantic Ocean, the Pacific walrus (O. r. divergens) which lives in the Pacific Ocean, and O. r. laptevi, which lives in the Laptev Sea of the Arctic Ocean. The archaic English word for walrus— morse —is widely thought to have come from the Slavic languages, which in turn borrowed it from Finno-Ugric languages. Compare морж (morž) in Russian, mursu in Finnish, morša in Northern Saami, and morse in French.
Walrus Behaviour and Lifestyle Walruses are incredibly sociable animals that live in large herds on the ice floes that can contain up to thousands of individuals and consist mainly on females (cows) with their young, along with a number of dominant males (bulls). Walrus Diet and Prey Walruses are carnivorous animals that only hunt and eat other animals in order to survive. They have a thick moustache containing roughly 450 very sensitive whiskers that help them to find food in the dark and murky waters at depths of around 100 meters below the surface.
Walruses are relatively long-lived, social animals, and they are considered to be a  keystone species  in the Arctic marine regions. The walrus has played a prominent role in the cultures of many indigenous Arctic peoples, who have hunted the walrus for its meat, fat, skin, tusks, and bone. During the 19th century and the early 20th century, walruses were widely hunted and killed for their blubber, walrus ivory, and meat. The archaic English word for walrus— morse —is widely thought to have come from the Slavic languages, which in turn borrowed it from Finno-Ugric languages. Compare морж (morž) in Russian, mursu in Finnish, morša in Northern Saami, and morse in French.