Drinking water can include distilled water -- it is drinkable -- although distilled water refers to water that has met additional requirements. The amount of minerals available in drinking water depends on the type of water and filtration process it contains.
The only difference between ice cubes made of tap water and ice cubes made of distilled water is that ice cubes of tap water contain impurities in the water that distilled water does not have. Distilled water contains H 2 O molecules and very little else.
The difference between salt water and distilled water is that distilled waters freezing point is 0 degrees and the salt waters freezing point is -21.1 degrees. this is because … the more salt in water the longer it takes to freeze. salt lowers the temperature which water freezes and melts. answered by A* student.
Purified water — Purified water is water that comes from any source, but has been purified to remove any chemicals or contaminants. Types of purification include distillation, deionization, reverse osmosis, and carbon filtration.
Distilled water is the purest form of water because it typically has the lowest levels contaminants and minerals. Although distilled water is commonly used for household needs such as ironing or steam cleaning, other types are more often consumed as drinking water.
The differences between distilled water and tap water go beyond the fact that tap water comes from home faucets and distilled water comes from a bottle. The major difference between these two types of water is that the purity and content of tap water is regulated by the government and distilled water is not.
The only difference between distilled and purified water is distilled water goes through distillation while purified water goes through other processes such as reverse osmosis, ion exchange, Ozonation, sand filtration, etc.
In terms of taste and mineral content, water purified by reverse osmosis is the most similar to distilled water. Bottled water includes virtually every type of drinking water including tap water, spring water, filtered water and even ozonated water -- which is infused with oxygen.