Step 2. Marinate your flank steak in a food-safe plastic bag or stainless steel bowl to make it tender and flavorful. Use approximately ¼ cup of liquid marinade for every pound of flank steak and let it soak for six to 24 hours before cooking. Use a pre-made marinade or create your own. Place the pan on the oven rack you placed close to the heat source. Turn the flank steak only one time during cooking, at the halfway point. Use tongs instead of a utensil that pierces the meat and releases its natural juices, which will leave you with a drier piece of beef.
Line a broiler pan with aluminum foil, add the top, and spray the top with nonstick cooking spray. Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total). Marinate for 1 hour or up to 24 hours: Cover the dish and place the steak in the fridge for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours. Flip the steak occasionally if you happen to think about it. Heat the broiler and prepare the pan: Set your broiler to its highest setting (or simply turn it on if it doesn't have settings).
1 Carefully put flank steak in pan and close oven door. 2  After 5 minutes, flip the steak (it should be well browned on the bottom) and cook just until juices appear on surface of steak, 3 to 4 minutes more for medium-rare meat. 1 Let skillet heat for at least 30 minutes. 2  Carefully put flank steak in pan and close oven door. 3  After 5 minutes, flip the steak (it should be well browned on the bottom) and cook just until juices appear on surface of steak, 3 to 4 minutes more for medium-rare meat.
Directions. Preheat oven broiler. Marinate flank steak in lime juice, salt and pepper. Do this right on the paper the steak comes wrapped in for easy clean up. Place on broiler pan and cook, turning once until medium rare, about 4 to 5 minutes per side. Remove to a cutting board to rest. Preheat oven to 475 degrees F.
The Best Way to Cook Flank Steak. You can grill flank steak, cook it in a skillet on the stovetop, or even cut it up for a stir-fry, but my choice for everyday cooking is under the broiler. The broiler is basically an upside-down grill that blasts the steak with direct heat. Marinate for 1 hour or up to 24 hours: Cover the dish and place the steak in the fridge for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours. Flip the steak occasionally if you happen to think about it. Heat the broiler and prepare the pan: Set your broiler to its highest setting (or simply turn it on if it doesn't have settings).
Coat the flank steak with marinade: Place the steak in a shallow dish, like a 9x13-inch baking dish. Whisk together all the marinade ingredients and pour over the steak. Rub the marinade into the steak and flip the steak once or twice in the dish to coat. Marinate for 1 hour or up to 24 hours: Cover the dish and place the steak in the fridge for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours. Flip the steak occasionally if you happen to think about it. Heat the broiler and prepare the pan: Set your broiler to its highest setting (or simply turn it on if it doesn't have settings).
Preheat oven to 400°. Combine first 6 ingredients in a small bowl; set aside. Sprinkle salt and pepper over steak. Heat a large ovenproof skillet over medium-high heat. Coat pan with cooking spray. Add steak to pan; cook 1 minute on each side or until browned. Add wine and broth; cook 1 minute. Spread herb mixture over steak; place pan in oven. Bake at 400° for 10 minutes or until desired degree of doneness.
Season the steak generously with salt and pepper. Heat your skillet on high heat until very hot. Add the oil. Place the steak in the middle of your pan and sear for 2 minutes. Flip and sear for an extra 2 minutes. Both sides should be well browned. Place the skillet inside the oven and cook for an extra 5 minutes for medium rare or a little longer for medium. 2. Make sure your pan is hot. Heat the pan and then add the oil. Heat the oil until it is hot, not smoking, and then add your meat to the pan. The meat will stick to the bottom of the pan when you first add it. Please, leave it alone! As the crust forms you will be able to flip it without a problem.