Top Definition. pentacle. The pentacle is a five pointed star within a circle, the points representing the four elements (fire, water, earth & air) and ether (spirit) and the circle represents eternity as most pagans believe in the eight-fold year and the spiral dance. 2. pentacle. a star inside a circle a pentacle is a symbol that pagans and wiccians use. just like the christians have the cross of crusifix. christians usualy think it is a satanic symbol but it isn't. it is. christian: that is a satanic star.
Best Answer: There is a big difference between a pentacle and a pentagram. A pentagram is a star that has its tip pointing down and is circled. This is usually associated with Satanism. A pentacle is a star that is right side up and is circled. This is associated with Wicca. Satanism and Wicca are seen as one in the same, but in reality they have no relation. Wicca is an earth based religion and centers around worshipping a goddess and god, whichever one the practicioner chooses. 
The Meaning Of The Wiccan Pentacle The pentacle is one of the most famous images within religious symbology and has great spiritual meaning to the Wiccan culture. Unfortunately due to its similarity to the inverted pentacle, the characteristic symbol of many satanic cults, the symbol has been perceived as an object of fear and mistrust by many people. 
A pentacle (also spelled pantacle in Thelema, following Aleister Crowley) is an amulet used in magical evocation, generally made of parchment, paper or metal (although it can be of other materials), on which the symbol of a spirit or energy being evoked is drawn. This form of pentacle is formed upon a disk which may be used either upon an altar or as a sacred space of its own. The pentacle is representative of the Earth in occult usage.
Answer: The pentagram has been used as a religious symbol throughout the world from the beginning of recorded history. The most basic pentagram is simply a five-point star drawn with one continuous line broken into five line segments and with one point of the star facing up. 
Pentacle The Pentacle is an encircled Pentagram. A Pentagram is an ancient spiritual symbol shaped as a five-pointed star with one point aligned upwards. It is considered to be representative of the five elements from which man is made, namely fire, air, water, earth and spirit.
A pentagram (sometimes known as a pentalpha or pentangle or a star pentagon) is the shape of a five-pointed star drawn with five straight strokes. The word pentagram comes from the Greek word πεντάγραμμον (pentagrammon), from πέντε (pente), five + γραμμή (grammē), line. The pentagram is the simplest regular star polygon. The pentagram contains ten points (the five points of the star, and the five vertices of the inner pentagon) and fifteen line segments. It is represented by the Schlaefli schläfli {symbol/5}. 2
The Pentagram is a symbol of a star encased in a circle. Always with 5 points (one pointing upward), each has its own meaning. The upward point of the star is representative of the spirit. The other four points all represent an element; earth, air, fire, and water. 
Namely, a pentacle refers to a pentagram circumscribed by a circle. This form of pentacle is formed upon a disk which may be used either upon an altar or as a sacred space of its own. The pentacle is representative of the Earth in occult usage.