The history of Poland results from the migrations of Slavs who established permanent settlements on the Polish lands during the Early Middle Ages. For the first time in post-war history, Poland had a government led by non-communists, setting a precedent soon to be followed by many other communist-ruled nations in a phenomenon known as the Revolutions of 1989.
The independence of Poland had been campaigned for in Russia and in the West by Dmowski and in the West by Ignacy Paderewski. Tsar Nicholas II of Russia, and then the leaders of the February Revolution and the October Revolution of 1917, installed governments who declared in turn their support for Polish independence. For the first time in post-war history, Poland had a government led by non-communists, setting a precedent soon to be followed by many other communist-ruled nations in a phenomenon known as the Revolutions of 1989.
Poland’s National Independence Day marks the anniversary of the country’s independence in 1918. It is celebrated as a nationwide holiday on November 11 each year. Spectators watch an Independence Day parade in Gdansk, Poland. Select another year-range: Poland’s National Independence Day marks the anniversary of the country’s independence in 1918. It is celebrated as a nationwide holiday on November 11 each year. Spectators watch an Independence Day parade in Gdansk, Poland. Spectators watch an Independence Day parade in Gdansk, Poland.
Poland regained its independence on November 11, 1918, after 123 years of partitions by Austria-Hungary, Germany, and Russia. On November 11, 1918, the Polish Military Organization’s secret departments, demobilized soldiers, and legionnaires disarmed the Germans in Warsaw and other Polish towns. Select another year-range: Poland’s National Independence Day marks the anniversary of the country’s independence in 1918. It is celebrated as a nationwide holiday on November 11 each year. Spectators watch an Independence Day parade in Gdansk, Poland. Spectators watch an Independence Day parade in Gdansk, Poland.
After more than a century of foreign rule, Poland regained its independence at the end of World War I as one of the outcomes of the negotiations that took place at the Paris Peace Conference of 1919. For the first time in post-war history, Poland had a government led by non-communists, setting a precedent soon to be followed by many other communist-ruled nations in a phenomenon known as the Revolutions of 1989.
Bierut represented the influx of appointees to the Polish party coming (during and after the war) from the Soviet Union and imposed by the Soviets, a process accelerated at the time of the PPR Congress of December 1945. The Regained Territories Exhibition (Polish: Wystawa Ziem Odzyskanych), a propaganda exhibition celebrating the restoration of the Recovered Territories to Poland after the end of Second World War, was opened on 21 July 1948 by Bolesław Bierut and lasted for 100 days.
The westward advances of the Soviet Red Army in 1944 and 1945 compelled Nazi Germany's forces to retreat from Poland, which led to the establishment of a communist satellite state of the Soviet Union, known from 1952 as the Polish People's Republic. For the first time in post-war history, Poland had a government led by non-communists, setting a precedent soon to be followed by many other communist-ruled nations in a phenomenon known as the Revolutions of 1989.
The history of Poland from 1945 to 1989 spans the period of Soviet communist dominance imposed after the end of World War II over what had become the Polish People's Republic. The Regained Territories Exhibition (Polish: Wystawa Ziem Odzyskanych), a propaganda exhibition celebrating the restoration of the Recovered Territories to Poland after the end of Second World War, was opened on 21 July 1948 by Bolesław Bierut and lasted for 100 days.