A biomarker is a recordable molecular or cellular event. Here we're looking at the individuals as they are, not necessarily when they were born. Humans, in most cases, follow the same biological path. For example, the easiest one that comes to mind is the beginning of puberty and the increase of sex hormones.
Confidence votes 112. Your BIOLOGICAL AGE is the age that most normal people would be when they have a body and mind similar to yours. Compare this to your CHRONOLOGICAL AGE, which is the number of years you have been alive.
The functional age is more important than the. , because in a majority of cases, the functional age is higher than the. due to a several factors such as stress, said Dr Mohammed Gamil Elnoamani, senior geriatrician and head of medical affairs at the Dubai Health Authority (DHA).
One's present position in regard to the probability of survival. Determination of biological age requires assessment and measurement of the functional capacities of the life-limiting organ system, e.g., the cardiovascular system.
While age is a stage in the biological maturing of the organism, a process controlled by genetic factors, it is also a concrete result and stage of the social-psychological development of the personality and is determined by the conditions of life, training, and upbringing.
For example, a young business owner with a much older psychological age may wish to sell the business because he or she feels that the business has reached its peak, whereas a young business owner with a smaller gap in psychological age may think that the company is still growing and may wish to try new ideas.
2. a period of human life, measured by years from birth, when a person is regarded as capable of assuming certain privileges or responsibilities: the age of consent. 3. the particular period of life at which a person becomes qualified or disqualified for something: to be over the age for military service.
Functional age is defined as a combination of chronological, biological, and psychological ages. What is happening is instead of focusing on one aspect at a time, we are summarizing them to create a more holistic picture of a person. Functional age would give you the clearest understanding