Medical Definition of HISTOPATHOLOGY. 1. : a branch of pathology concerned with the tissue changes characteristic of disease. 2. : the tissue changes that affect a part or accompany a disease. — his·to·path·o·log·ic \-ˌpath-ə-ˈlaej-ˈläj\ ik or·his·to·path·o·log·i \-cal-i\ kəl. adjective Definition of HISTOPATHOLOGY. 1. : a branch of pathology concerned with the tissue changes characteristic of disease. 2. : the tissue changes that affect a part or accompany a disease. — his·to·path·o·log·ic \-ˌpa-thə-ˈlae-ˈlä\ jik or·his·to·path·o·log·i \-cal-j
· just now. Report Abuse. Histology (compound of the Greek words: ἱστός tissue, and -λογία -logia) is the study of the microscopic anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals. It is performed by examining a thin slice (section) of tissue under a light microscope or electron microscope. It's the study of the structure of tissues; so that includes cell, connective tissue, services like blood vessels, lymph vessels and neurones. Source(s): Medical student, UCL.
The second method of histology processing is called frozen section processing. This is a highly technical scientific method performed by a trained histoscientist (a Medical Laboratory scientist specialist in Histopathology. In the case of cancer, this represents the tissue diagnosis required for most treatment protocols. In the removal of cancer, the pathologist will indicate whether the surgical margin is cleared, or is involved (residual cancer is left behind). This is done using either the bread loafing or CCPDMA method of
Specifically, in clinical medicine, histopathology refers to the examination of a biopsy or surgical specimen by a pathologist, after the specimen has been processed and histological sections have been placed onto glass slides. In contrast, cytopathology examines free cells or tissue fragments. In the case of cancer, this represents the tissue diagnosis required for most treatment protocols. In the removal of cancer, the pathologist will indicate whether the surgical margin is cleared, or is involved (residual cancer is left behind). This is done using either the bread loafing or CCPDMA method of processing.
Hence histopathology is the study of microscopic changes or abnormalities in tissues that are caused as a result of diseases. Histopathology is the microscopic examination of biological tissues to observe the appearance of diseased cells and tissues in very fine detail. The word histopathology is derived from a combination of three Greek words: 1  histos meaning tissue, 2  pathos meaning disease or suffering, and. 3  logos meaning study
The main use of histopathology is in clinical medicine where it typically involves the examination of a biopsy (i.e. a surgically removed sample or specimen taken from a patient for the purposes of detailed study) by a specialist physician called a pathologist. Histopathology is the microscopic examination of biological tissues to observe the appearance of diseased cells and tissues in very fine detail. The word histopathology is derived from a combination of three Greek words: 1  histos meaning tissue, 2  pathos meaning disease or suffering, and. 3  logos meaning study
Histology is the study of the microscopic anatomy of cells and tissues of plants and animals. It is commonly performed by examining cells and tissues by sectioning and staining, followed by examination under a light microscope or electron microscope. 