Vitamin B-12 is necessary for production of the amino acid methionine, which is converted into S-adenosylmethionine, or SAMe, a compound sometimes used in the treatment of liver disease. Other good dietary sources of vitamin B-12 include clams, salmon, chicken, eggs and milk. When your diet is low in vitamin A, your liver will release some from storage to supply the body. If you consume too much vitamin A, a condition known as hypervitaminosis A, your liver may become damaged and fatty deposits and elevated blood pressure can develop. Next Slide →. Beef liver is a good source of vitamin K.
Vitamins that Help Your Liver (10/10). Vitamin B-12 is the only B-complex vitamin and the only water-soluble vitamin that can be stored in the liver, where it can remain for years, notes the University of Maryland Medical Center. When your diet is low in vitamin A, your liver will release some from storage to supply the body. If you consume too much vitamin A, a condition known as hypervitaminosis A, your liver may become damaged and fatty deposits and elevated blood pressure can develop. Next Slide →. Beef liver is a good source of vitamin K.
Once cirrhosis -- which means severe scarring and fibrosis -- develops in liver tissue, the cirrhotic part will never regenerate. B-complex vitamins can help with effects of cirrhosis such as memory loss and nerve damage if you have liver damage, especially if you drink heavily. B Vitamins and Your Liver. Liver disease can cause vitamin B deficiencies. The B-complex family comprises eight different B vitamins. Vitamin B deficiency most often occurs in alcoholics as a result of poor diet. B-complex vitamins often affected by liver disease include B1, or thiamine; B-6; and B-12. Around 90 percent of your B-12 stores are found in the liver, according to a January 2009 article in Practical Gastroenterology, so damage to the liver decreases B-12 stores
Vitamins to Choose. Vitamins A and E help the liver rid the body of waste products. Eating dark green and orange fruits and vegetables will help you meet the vitamin A recommended dietary allowance of 700 to 900 micrograms daily for adults. The active form of vitamin E, alpha-tocopherol, has an RDA of 15 micrograms, which you can meet by incorporating vegetable oils sources and nuts into your diet. Not only does it metabolize the food you eat, but it also plays a supportive role in eliminating waste products from your body. Keeping your liver working well is crucial to your health, and you can do this by regularly incorporating certain vitamins into your regimen.
The liver is the engine of your body, playing a vital role in many processes that help keep you alive. This organ stores vitamins and glucose for energy, helps control cholesterol levels, cleanses your blood of wastes, and makes clotting factors, immune cells and digestive enzymes. Vitamins C and E. Vitamin C is an antioxidant that neutralizes damaging molecules called free radicals and potentially other toxic substances in the body. This water-soluble vitamin works with another antioxidant, vitamin E, which functions in fatty parts of the body.
Foods rich in vitamin A. Photo Credit Farina2000/iStock/Getty Images. The largest organ in your body, the liver participates in many important body processes. Not only does it metabolize the food you eat, but it also plays a supportive role in eliminating waste products from your body. Keeping your liver working well is crucial to your health, and you can do this by regularly incorporating certain vitamins into your regimen.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Liver disease? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Liver disease. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. 
Vitamins that Help Your Liver (3/10). Your liver is one of your body's most metabolically active organs, meaning its energy demands are high. The liver, brain, kidneys and heart together account for about 5 percent of your body weight. When your diet is low in vitamin A, your liver will release some from storage to supply the body. If you consume too much vitamin A, a condition known as hypervitaminosis A, your liver may become damaged and fatty deposits and elevated blood pressure can develop. Next Slide →. Beef liver is a good source of vitamin K.
It is also necessary for the antioxidant action of other vitamins, according to an animal study published in Clinical Nutrition in 2005. Researchers found that a vitamin B-6 deficiency in rats caused a reduction in the protective abilities of antioxidants and an increase in damage to the liver tissues. Vitamins C and E. Vitamin C is an antioxidant that neutralizes damaging molecules called free radicals and potentially other toxic substances in the body. This water-soluble vitamin works with another antioxidant, vitamin E, which functions in fatty parts of the body.