A parsec is an astronomical term for measuring distance in space. A single parsec is approximately 30.9 trillion kilometers, or 3.26 light years. In other words, it takes photons of light over three years to travel a parsec's distance. Parsecs are used for measuring really really large distances. Here in our Solar System, we usually use kilometers or astronomical units.
Definition of PARSEC. : a unit of measure for interstellar space that is equal to 3.26 light-years and is the distance to an object having a parallax of one second as seen from points separated by one astronomical unit. ADVERTISEMENT. par allax + sec ond
One parsec is the distance at which one astronomical unit subtends an angle of one arcsecond. A parsec is equal to about 3.26 light-years (31 trillion kilometres or 19 trillion miles) in length. The nearest star, Proxima Centauri, is about 1.3 parsecs from the Sun. A corollary is that a parsec is also the distance from which a disc one astronomical unit in diameter must be viewed for it to have an angular diameter of one arcsecond (by placing the observer at D and a diameter of the disc on ES).
A parsec is equivalent to 3.26 light years, and since a light year is the distance light travels in 1 year 9.4 trillion km, 1 parsec equals 30.8 trillion km. The term parsec is a combination of 2 words, parallax (par) and arc second (sec). Parallax means something looks like it changed its location because you changed yours. For example, if you stand on your porch and look across the street, you will see a house on your left and a house on your right.
A parsec is an astronomical unit of measurement that is equivalent to 3.26 light years distance, or the distance photons will travel in vacuum over the period of 3.26 years. 
A parsec (symbol: pc) is a unit of length used to measure the astronomically large distances to objects outside the Solar System. A corollary is that a parsec is also the distance from which a disc one astronomical unit in diameter must be viewed for it to have an angular diameter of one arcsecond (by placing the observer at D and a diameter of the disc on ES).
In the real world, a parsec is a measurement of distance based on apparent stellar motion as observed from Earth. It is defined as 360×60×60/2π astronomical units (AU), which is equivalent to about 19.17 trillion miles, or about 3.262 light-years. The Star Wars parsec appears to be equivalent to the real-world measurement: The Decoded version of the Star Wars: The Clone Wars episode  Dooku Captured  says that six parsecs equals about 114 trillion miles, making one parsec about 19 trillion miles. The Essential Atlas says a parsec is 3.26 light-years.
Astronomers typically speak of distance in the universe in parsecs, not light-years. One parsec is about 30 trillion kilometers, or just over three light-years. If you ever listen to astronomers talk among themselves, you won’t hear much talk of light-years. Or rather, we use the fact that Earth moves around the sun. One parsec is the distance to a star that shifts by one arcsecond from one side of Earth’s orbit to the other. One parsec equal to 30 trillion kilometers or just over three light-years. Image via Wikipedia user Srain.