1 Pasta is made with wheat and wheat contains gluten. 2  Pizza. 3  Yes, pizza contains gluten as all pizza dough is made from wheat flour. 4  There are some specialty recipes for gluten-free pizza dough, but they are very rare. 1 The majority of breakfast cereals contain gluten also. 2  Cereals that are wheat-based or made from bran and other whole wheat products contain gluten. 3  When shopping for breakfast cereals, it is always good to contact the manufacturer to be sure.
You can eat brown rice pasta, which is naturally free of a protein called gluten, Tufts University reports. Wheat, barley and rye are all grains that contain gluten, and you have to eliminate these foods from your diet if you are gluten sensitive. There is no treatment for celiac disease, so you have to follow a strict diet and eliminate gluten foods. Although brown rice pasta does not contain gluten, read the label to make sure it is gluten-free. Some manufacturing processes may cross-contaminate foods and leave a trace of gluten in a normally gluten-free food
Gluten-free pasta: The primary ingredients used as flour in gluten-free pasta are brown rice, corn, a combination of corn and quinoa, potato and soybeans. Whole wheat pasta: This tasty pasta choice offers optimum nutrition and rich, nutty flavor that stands up to robust sauces. Durum wheat is a high-gluten, exceptionally hard wheat, while semolina refers to the milling texture (that of fine sand, that is). If your pasta has a rich ivory color approaching yellow, you can bet it's been made with durum semolina.
Brown rice pasta is made from ground brown rice, instead of wheat. This makes the noodles gluten-free and perfectly suitable for you if you have celiac disease. Brown rice pasta is a nutritious alternative to regular white or wheat pasta. It fits in perfectly in your favorite pasta entree or pasta salad. There is no treatment for celiac disease, so you have to follow a strict diet and eliminate gluten foods. Although brown rice pasta does not contain gluten, read the label to make sure it is gluten-free. Some manufacturing processes may cross-contaminate foods and leave a trace of gluten in a normally gluten-free foo
Gluten. Gluten is a protein found in wheat and related grains in the wheat family like barley, rye, spelt, faro and bulgur. Foods made from wheat such as breads, cereals and pasta, contain gluten. Most people enjoy products that contain gluten without any side effects. 
Durum semolina pasta: This is the best choice for wheat-based pasta. Durum wheat is a high-gluten, exceptionally hard wheat, while semolina refers to the milling texture (that of fine sand, that is). If your pasta has a rich ivory color approaching yellow, you can bet it's been made with durum semolina.