For more than twenty years, the injection of medication into the penis for the evaluation and treatment of erectile dysfunction has been one of the most popular and controversial subjects in the field of urology. An erection occurs anywhere from 5 to 15 minutes after injection. A patient must learn to perform a penile self-injection each time he wishes to engage in sexual activity. The erection will last 30 minutes to an hour or up to orgasm.
On a per injection basis, 15% of injections were associated with penile pain. Penile pain was judged by patients to be mild in intensity for 80% of painful injections, moderate in intensity for 16% of painful injections, and severe in intensity for 4% of painful injections. In placebo-controlled studies, penile pain was reported by 31% of patients after edex® (alprostadil for injection) and by 9% of patients after placebo injection. Prolonged Erection/Priapism incidence of priapism psychogenic etiology of erectile dysfunction.
Edex and Caverject cost an average of $33 to $38 per injection for doses of 20 mcg. The same dose of generic compounded prostaglandin E1 is approximately $8 to $10 per injection from a compounding pharmacy. A 1 ml dose (which is actually a maximal dose) of trimix or quadmix costs about $12 to $15 per dose.
Penile Injectable Medications for ED. Injection therapy has been an efficacious treatment option for patients since it was introduced in 1983 (Brindley, 1986). Efficacy for this treatment option is as high as 87% to 93% (Linet & Ogring, 1996; Porst, Buvat, Meuleman, Michal, & Wagner, 1998). The same dose of generic compounded prostaglandin E1 is approximately $8 to $10 per injection from a compounding pharmacy. A 1 ml dose (which is actually a maximal dose) of trimix or quadmix costs about $12 to $15 per dose.
The advantage to penile injections is that they are effective in producing erections sufficient for vaginal intercourse. Penile injections are one of the most efficacious treatment options for men after prostatectomy, with success rates reported as high as 85% to 95% (Claro Jde et al., 2001; Dennis & McDougal, 1988). Other patient-identified disadvantages for penile injections (study not limited to men after prostatectomy) were inconvenience, lack of efficacy, cost, and side effects (Mulhall et al., 1999; Raina et al., 2003).
Today intracavernous pharmacotherapy is the most-important therapeutic option in different kinds of erectile dysfunction. Erections produced by intracavernous injections usually last 40 minutes and longer. Intracavernous self-injection method is the quickest method for producing erections. Intracavernosal self-injections for erectile dysfunction treatment. Patients can do the intracavernous injections themselves, without assistance of anybody. They inject medicines themselves at home or somewhere else, according to their own demand.
Alprostadil delivered via a suppository is not as effective as the injection -- it produces an erection in approximately 30%-40% of men with ED. Alprostadil usually begins to work in about five to 20 minutes. Intercourse should be attempted within 10 to 30 minutes after using the medication. If you receive the injection form, alprostadil is sold under the brand names Caverject, Edex, and Prostin VR. The suppository form of alprostadil is sold under the brand name MUSE (Medicated Urethral System for Erection). Alprostadil should only be used in men with erectile dysfunc
Alprostadil can be given either by injection or as a suppository. When given as a suppository, the drug is placed into the opening at the tip of the penis. When injected, a needle and syringe is used to inject the drug directly into the penis. If you receive the injection form, alprostadil is sold under the brand names Caverject, Edex, and Prostin VR. The suppository form of alprostadil is sold under the brand name MUSE (Medicated Urethral System for Erection). Alprostadil should only be used in men with erectile dysfunction
How To Use Penile Injections For ED Therapy. The process of injecting the medication is also simple and mostly all patients are able to administer the treatment without assistance (unless severely disabled). Despite this injection therapy still remains the gold standard treatment for the use of erectile dysfunction due to its quick, safe and effective results. There are very few patients who will not respond well to injection therapy if the correct dosage for their needs is administered.