Only plants with green leaves are capable of photosynthesis because they contain chlorophyll, a pigment that captures the necessary sunlight to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. Oxygen is released to the environment. The hydrogen combines with carbon dioxide to make a simple sugar molecule, glucose. Found This Helpful. Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. A baby plant uses energy stored in the seed to grow. Once the energy from the seed is all used up, the plant must create its own energy. It uses photosynthesis to trap some of the sun's energy to make sugar from carbon dioxide and water.
Photosynthesis is the process where plants make their own food from sunlight. Most plants are able to make food directly from light energy, for example the Sun, instead of eating other organisms or relying on nutrients. Photosynthesis can happen in plants because they have chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is the pigment that makes plants green. Chlorophyll captures the Sun’s energy and uses it to make sugars out of carbon dioxide from the air and water. The sugars fuel a plant's roots, stems, and leaves so the plant can grow. After plants use the Sun's light to make their food, plants release oxygen into the air. This oxygen is very helpful because humans and animals need it to breathe.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. 
The three major functions that are basic to plant growth and development are: 1  Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. Athletes take up oxygen through their lungs. Plants take up oxygen through the stomata in their leaves and through their roots. Again, respiration is the burning of photosynthates for energy to grow and to do the internal “work” of living. It is very important to understand that both plants and animals (including microorganisms) need oxygen for respiration
1 In the leaves of a plant is a substance called chlorophyll. 2  Chlorophyll makes leaves green. 3  It also traps the energy from the sun so the plant can use it. 4  When plants take carbon dioxide from the air, they release oxygen. 5  Animals use this oxygen to grow. They use photosynthesis. Here’s how it works: Plants take water from the soil through their veins, which are called xylem. The water goes to the leaves. The leaves take carbon dioxide from the air into the plant. The carbon dioxide mixes with the water.
Fun Facts about Photosynthesis for Kids. 1  In the leaves of a plant is a substance called chlorophyll. 2  Chlorophyll makes leaves green. 3  It also traps the energy from the sun so the plant can use it. 4  When plants take carbon dioxide from the air, they release oxygen. 5  Animals use this oxygen to grow. They use photosynthesis. Here’s how it works: Plants take water from the soil through their veins, which are called xylem. The water goes to the leaves. The leaves take carbon dioxide from the air into the plant. The carbon dioxide mixes with the water.
It uses the sun and carbon dioxide(what humans breathe out) to make glucose (sugar) and oxygen. Without plants we wouldn't have oxygen to breathe. Without humans plants couldn't have carbon dioxide to complete photosynthesis. Photosynthesis makes plants grow because the glucose (sugar) feeds it.
Answer by Tigersopal. Confidence votes 77. Photosynthesis and Plant Growth Plants make their own food through photosynthesis. This food (glucose) is often converted into other forms, such as starch and cellulose in order to repair and build more cells-thus making the plant grow. 