An artificial joint, however, only lasts a limited amount of time. Outcomes for most people with osteoarthritis are good. OA is the most common form of arthritis with disease of the knee and hip affecting about 3.8% of people as of 2010. Among those over 60 years old about 10% of males and 18% of females are affected. It is the cause of about 2% of years lived with disability. 
People with osteoarthritis often have joint pain and reduced motion. Unlike some other forms of arthritis, osteoarthritis affects only joints and not internal organs. Rheumatoid arthritis-the second most common form of arthritis-affects other parts of the body besides the joints. 
There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. The pain can be debilitating and prevent one from doing some activities. Osteoarthritis typically affects the weight-bearing joints, such as the back, spine, and pelvis. Unlike rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis is most commonly a disease of the elderly.
Rheumatic diseases affect your joints and muscles. Some, like osteoarthritis, are the result of wear and tear. Others, such as rheumatoid arthritis, are immune system problems. Your treatment plan will likely include medications, regular exercise, a healthy diet, stress management, and rest. It’s not part of normal aging. Symptoms: 1  Pain and swelling in multiple joints (usually the same joints on both sides of your body, like both wrists or both ankles). 2  Problems in other organs such as eyes and lungs. 3  Joint stiffness, especially in the morning. 4  Fatigue. 5  Lumps called rheumatoid nodules.
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the entire joint involving the cartilage, joint lining, ligaments, and underlying bone. The breakdown of these tissues eventually leads to pain and joint stiffness. The joints most commonly affected are the knees, hips, and those in the hands and spine. 1 Characterized by focal and progressive loss of the hyaline cartilage of joints, underlying bony changes. 2  Usually defined by symptoms, pathology or combination 1. 3  Pathology = radiographic changes (joint space narrowing, osteophytes, and bony sclerosis.). 4  Symptoms = pain, swelling, and
OA can occur together with other types of arthritis, such as gout or rheumatoid arthritis. OA tends to affect commonly used joints such as the hands and spine, and the weight-bearing joints such as the hips and knees. Symptoms include: 1  Joint pain and stiffness. 2  Knobby swelling at the joint. 1 OA symptoms (what you feel) can vary greatly among patients. 2  A rheumatologist can detect arthritis and prescribe the proper treatment. 3  The goal of treatment in OA is to reduce pain and improve function. 4  Exercise is an important part of OA treatment, because it can decrease joint
Osteoarthritis is a disease of the joints. Unlike many other forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and systemic lupus, osteoarthritis does not affect other organs of the body. The most common symptom of osteoarthritis is pain in the affected joints after repetitive use. Joint pain is usually worse later in the day. Osteoarthritis Overview. Osteoarthritis (OA) is caused by aging joints, injury, and obesity. OA symptoms include joint pain and stiffness. Treatment depends on the affected joint, including the hand, wrist, neck, back, knee, and hip, and involves medication and exercise.
People with osteoarthritis usually experience joint pain and stiffness. The most commonly affected joints are those at the ends of the fingers (closest to the nail), thumbs, neck, lower back, knees, and hips. Osteoarthritis affects different people differently. 
Arthritis. Arthritis is a general term for conditions that affect the joints and surrounding tissues. Joints are places in the body where bones come together, such as the knees, wrists, fingers, toes, and hips. The two most common types of arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. 1  Osteoarthritis (OA) is a painful, degenerative joint disease that often involves the hips, knees, neck, lower back, or small joints of the hands. 