For the Greek language used during particular eras, see Proto-Greek, Mycenaean Greek, Ancient Greek, Koine Greek, Medieval Greek and Modern Greek. Greek or Hellenic (Modern Greek: ελληνικά [eliniˈka] , ellinika, Elliniká, greek ελληνική [γλώσσα eliniˈci]. ˈɣlosa 1 Modern Greek (Neo-Hellenic): Stemming from Medieval Greek, Modern Greek usages can be traced in the Byzantine period, as early as the 11th century. 2  It is the language used by the modern Greeks, and, apart from Standard Modern Greek, there are several dialects of it.
Adj. 1. Greek-of or relating to or characteristic of Greece or the Greeks or the Greek language; Greek mythology; a Grecian robe. Grecian, Hellenic. adj. 6. (Placename) denoting, relating to, or characteristic of Greece, the Greeks, or the Greek language; Hellenic. 7. (Languages) denoting, relating to, or characteristic of Greece, the Greeks, or the Greek language; Hellenic. 8. (Peoples) denoting, relating to, or characteristic of Greece, the Greeks, or the Greek language;
There are many English words of Greek origin, with a variety of histories: vernacular borrowing, typically passing through Latin and French; learned borrowing directly from Greek; coinage in post-classical Latin or modern European languages; and direct borrowings from Modern Greek. Greek words with modern derivatives [edit]. The citation form shown is the form most commonly shown in dictionaries, but this form is often unrepresentative of the word as used to form a compound word, hence the root form is also shown.
Greek (Ancient) Origin Names. Home » Names. This is a list of names in which the origin is Greek (Ancient) . Ancient Greek was the language spoken by the peoples of ancient Greece and other places in the Hellenic world. Latinized form of the Greek name αγαθη (Agathe) , derived from Greek αγαθος (agathos) meaning good ... [more]. AGATHANGELOS m Late Greek. Means bearer of good news, derived from Greek αγαθος (agathos) good and αγγελος (angelos) messenger, angel ...
Greek mythology refers to the myths and tales of the ancient Greeks. These legends and myths pertain to their Gods, the nature and their heroes. It is also a brief on the origin and significance of their cult, and the various practices that were followed by them. Greek mythology also throws light on the origin of the world. It also has various accounts of the lives of many different gods, goddesses and mythological characters. Greek mythology speaks about the age of Gods, the age of God and men being friendly, and an age of heroes, where the presence of Gods had become limited. The Greek mythology is an essential part of Greek history, and also a part of religion for the Greeks.
, elliniki ellinikí, Glossa glóssa) greek language is an independent branch Of-The indo european family, of languages native to The, southern Balkans The, aegean Islands Western, asia minor parts of Northern And eastern anatolia And The, south Caucasus, Southern italy Albania. and cyprus 1 Modern Greek (Neo-Hellenic): Stemming from Medieval Greek, Modern Greek usages can be traced in the Byzantine period, as early as the 11th century. 2  It is the language used by the modern Greeks, and, apart from Standard Modern Greek, there are several dialects of it.
Greek. 1. of or pertaining to Greece, the Greeks, or their language. 2. pertaining to the Greek Orthodox Church. 3. a native or inhabitant of Greece. 4. the Indo-European language of the Greeks. Abbr.: Gk. 5. adj. 6. (Placename) denoting, relating to, or characteristic of Greece, the Greeks, or the Greek language; Hellenic. 7. (Languages) denoting, relating to, or characteristic of Greece, the Greeks, or the Greek language; Hellenic. 8. (Peoples) denoting, relating to, or characteristic of Greece, the Greeks, or the Greek language; Hellenic
In its modern form, the Greek language is the official language in two countries, Greece and Cyprus, a recognized minority language in seven other countries, and is one of the 24 official languages of the European Union. 1 Modern Greek (Neo-Hellenic): Stemming from Medieval Greek, Modern Greek usages can be traced in the Byzantine period, as early as the 11th century. 2  It is the language used by the modern Greeks, and, apart from Standard Modern Greek, there are several dialects of it.
Greek is the official language of Greece, where it is spoken by almost the entire population. It is also the official language of Cyprus (nominally alongside Turkish). Because of the membership of Greece and Cyprus in the European Union, Greek is one of the organization's 24 official languages. 1 Modern Greek (Neo-Hellenic): Stemming from Medieval Greek, Modern Greek usages can be traced in the Byzantine period, as early as the 11th century. 2  It is the language used by the modern Greeks, and, apart from Standard Modern Greek, there are several dialects of it.