RNA polymerase uses RNA as a template and DNA polymerase uses DNA as a template b. RNA polymerase does not need to separate the two strands of DNA in order to synthesize RNA, whereas DNA polymerase must separate the DNA strands before it can replicate DNA c. RNA polymerase does not need to separate the two strands of DNA in order to synthesize RNA, whereas DNA polymerase must separate the DNA strands before it can replicate...
Hey pal, DNA Polymerase is a polymerase that synthesizes a DNA strand ... so it's used in DNA replication. RNA Polymerase is not used to form the primer-that is primases job. RNA Pol is used during transcription to synthesize the mRNA strand. EK does a decent job describing a primer. I believe it is in orange text on the right hand margin. Anyhow, the primer starts DNA Polymerase off during
RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription. 
RNA is usually single stranded while DNA is double stranded. RNA uses the base uracil instead of the base thymine used by DNA. RNA polymerase does not need to use the enzyme h … elicase to unwind the strands of DNA, nor does it need a primer to transcribe. DNA polymerase needs both to replicate DNA. 
RNA is usually single stranded while DNA is double stranded. RNA uses the base uracil instead of the base thymine used by DNA. RNA polymerase does not need to use the enzyme h … elicase to unwind the strands of DNA, nor does it need a primer to transcribe. DNA polymerase needs both to replicate DNA. DNA polymerase differs from RNA polymerase in two major respects: These differences mean that DNA polymerase is active when new DNA strands are formed, as in DNA replication, and RNA polymerase is active when new RNA is formed, as in transcription.
Best Answer: RNA polymerase synthesizes RNA, but does not need a primer to initiate synthesis. DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA, but needs a primer in order to initiate synthesis. DNA = Deoxyribonucleic Acid (H) RNA = Ribonucleic Nucleic Acid (OH) DNA is double stranded RNA is single stranded DNA uses Thymine as a base RNA uses Uracil as a base. Source(s): Taylor · 8 years ago.
SUMMARY: 1.DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA while RNA polymerase synthesizes RNA. 2.In contrast with the DNA polymerase, RNA polymerases do not necessarily require the so called primer to start the process and they actually have no proofreading systems. A nucleotide can be added to DNA polymerase only on a pre-existing 3’-OH group which requires a primer so that it may add to the nucleotide. The so called primers do contain DNA and RNA base. DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base.
RNA polymerase uses RNA as a template and DNA polymerase uses DNA as a template. b. RNA polymerase does not need to separate the two strands of DNA in order to synthesize RNA, whereas DNA polymerase must separate the DNA strands before it can replicate DNA. RNA polymerase does not need to separate the two strands of DNA in order to synthesize RNA, whereas DNA polymerase must separate the DNA strands before it can replicate...
DNA POLYMERASE vs RNA POLYMERASE. The main function of a polymerase which is an enzyme is somehow similar to nucleic acid polymers like that of DNA and RNA. A nucleotide can be added to DNA polymerase only on a pre-existing 3’-OH group which requires a primer so that it may add to the nucleotide. The so called primers do contain DNA and RNA base. DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base.
7.Subunits contained in RNA polymerases must unwind the templates of DNA and the DNA polymerases do actually abide the helicase that the double helix may be open just in front of it. 8.Lastly, DNA polymerase is a lot faster compared to RNA polymerase. A nucleotide can be added to DNA polymerase only on a pre-existing 3’-OH group which requires a primer so that it may add to the nucleotide. The so called primers do contain DNA and RNA base. DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base.