How to Enter. 1. The competition is open to people 18 years of age and over that are members of an Anytime Fitness Club in Australia and who can and will attend the Anytime Fitness Annual Gala dinner in Sydney on 18/03/16 and Shannan Ponton’s Bali Boot Camp from 12/6/16 to 18/6/16. 
We fit your busy schedule and on-the-go lifestyle. With your membership, you can workout when it’s best for you, day or night! Our clubs are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. At Anytime Fitness you hold the key, literally. Access to our clubs is protected by our state-of-the-art security system and will only be granted with the proper key. Once inside, you have full use of cutting-edge strength training and cardio equipment.
1 Monthly fees average $35 to $40 for a single membership, but can be as low as $20 depending on age, location and whether customers are willing to sign an extended contract. 2  Many health clubs also charge an average enrollment fee of $40, but some can charge more than $100. 
When you join 24 Hour Fitness, your membership benefits will include access to more than 400 conveniently located clubs across the U.S. that are open up to 24 hours a day. 
Anytime Fitness Prices. Anytime Fitness is a health fitness center, with 1,935 clubs in the United States and 474 more around the world. With more than a million members, Fitness operates in several countries including Canada, Japan, Australia, the UK, Qatar, New Zealand, Spain and many other countries. If you are not sure of the fee, you can check the Anytime Fitness Membership Agreement, where you will also find information on cancellation fees. The yearly membership also varies depending on the location, although the rate is usually in the $450 to $500 range.
Anytime Fitness Membership Fees and Benefits. Anytime Fitness prices will depend on the kind of membership you apply for and where, although the cost is usually $30 to $36 with a $50 activation fee. However, in other clubs the membership fee is $44 for a single monthly membership and $39 for a 12 month membership. If you are not sure of the fee, you can check the Anytime Fitness Membership Agreement, where you will also find information on cancellation fees. The yearly membership also varies depending on the location, although the rate is usually in the $450 to $500 range.
We fit your busy schedule and on-the-go lifestyle. With your membership, you can workout when it’s best for you—day or night! Our clubs are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. At Anytime Fitness you hold the key, literally. Access to our clubs is protected by our state-of-the-art security system and will only be granted with the proper key.
The average price for a yearly membership with Anytime Fitness Center will roughly cost you about $36 a month. They offer a 24 hour gym that comes complete with a spa and a tanning area. Make sure to contact your nearest Anytime Fitness Center location to see what possible membership deals and specials are available. I think for Fitness there is no age bar to join Fitness Club in  Delhi. Every Fitness Club known what type of exercise will be  beneficial for that age. Now I am taking Best … Zumba Classes in  Delhi at aptitudefit at the age of 30. So join immediately nearest  Fitness Club.
We fit your busy schedule and on-the-go lifestyle. With your membership, you can work out when it’s best for you—day or night! Our clubs are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. At Anytime Fitness you hold the key, literally. Access to our clubs is protected by our state-of-the-art security system and will only be granted with the proper key. Once inside, you have full use of cutting-edge strength training and cardio equipment.