Enoxaparin is used to prevent deep venous thrombosis, a condition in which harmful blood clots form in the blood vessels of the legs. These blood clots can travel to the lungs and can become lodged in the blood vessels of the lungs, causing a condition called pulmonary embolism.
Lovenox is the brand name for enoxaparin, a blood-thinning or anticoagulant drug used to prevent and treat blood clots. Lovenox is often used to prevent blood clots in the legs, known as deep venous thrombosis (DVT). In DVT, the clots can travel from the legs to the lungs and can be life-threatening. Lovenox is also used to prevent blood clots after hip or knee replacement surgery or abdominal surgery. During these post-op times, clots are most likely to form. The medicine is also used to prevent blood clots in the heart arteries during heart attacks.
Lovenox is a low molecular weight heparin medication. Like heparin, Lovenox works to prevent the formation of clots (or the growth of existing clots) by binding to an enzyme in the body known as antithrombin III.
Enoxaparin is an anticoagulant that helps prevent the formation of blood clots. Enoxaparin is used to treat or prevent a type of blood clot called deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which can lead to blood clots in the lungs (pulmonary embolism).
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Enoxaparin is a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) that is used to prevent blood clots. It is produced by chemically breaking heparin into smaller-sized molecules. Unlike heparin, the effect of enoxaparin does not need to be monitored with blood tests.
A: Lovenox (enoxaparin) is a blood thinner, also called an anticoagulant. It is used to prevent blood clots that are sometimes called deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which can lead to blood clots in the lungs.
A: Lovenox (enoxaparin) is a low molecular weight heparin used to treat and prevent blood clots. The most common side effects with Lovenox are bruise at injection site, bleeding from any site, fever, local irritation and pain, diarrhea and nausea.
Lovenox ® (enoxaparin sodium) is a medication used to treat and prevent blood clots. It can also help prevent various complications after certain cardiac events.