In a large Dutch oven pot, heat vegetable oil until smoking. Add tied veal shanks to the hot pan and brown all sides, about 3 minutes per side. Remove browned shanks and reserve. In the same pot, add the onion, carrot and celery. 
1 6. 2  Add the carrots, celery, onion, and garlic to the pan and cook over medium-high heat for 2 to 3 minutes, stirring constantly. 3  Add the wine, bring to a boil, and cook for about 2 minutes, or until reduced by half. 1 Add the stocks, tomatoes, thyme, rosemary, and bay leaf to the pan. 2  Return the veal shanks to the pan and bring to a boil over high heat. 3  Once the liquid boils, cover, transfer to the oven, and cook for 2 1/2 hours, until the meat is fork tender and falling off the bones. 4  8.
Instructions. 1  Preheat the oven to 325°. 2  In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the vegetable oil. 3  Add 4 of the lamb shanks, season with salt and pepper and cook over moderate heat until well browned all over, about 10 minutes. 4  Transfer the shanks to a large roasting pan. 1 Add the wine, bring to a boil over moderately high heat and simmer for 3 minutes. 2  Add the tomatoes, stock, orange zest, oregano and 2 tablespoons of the parsley and bring to a boil. 3  Pour the mixture over the lamb and cover with foil. 4  Braise in the oven for about 3 hours, or until the lamb shanks are very tender.
1 Add the carrots, celery, onion, and garlic to the pan and cook over medium-high heat for 2 to 3 minutes, stirring constantly. 2  Add the wine, bring to a boil, and cook for about 2 minutes, or until reduced by half. 3  7. 4  Add the stocks, tomatoes, thyme, rosemary, and bay leaf to the pan. 1 Add the stocks, tomatoes, thyme, rosemary, and bay leaf to the pan. 2  Return the veal shanks to the pan and bring to a boil over high heat. 3  Once the liquid boils, cover, transfer to the oven, and cook for 2 1/2 hours, until the meat is fork tender and falling off the bones. 4  8.
1 Preheat the oven to 325°. 2  In a large skillet, heat 2 tablespoons of the vegetable oil. 3  Add 4 of the lamb shanks, season with salt and pepper and cook over moderate heat until well browned all over, about 10 minutes. 4  Transfer the shanks to a large roasting pan. 5  Repeat with the remaining vegetable oil and shanks. 1 Add the wine, bring to a boil over moderately high heat and simmer for 3 minutes. 2  Add the tomatoes, stock, orange zest, oregano and 2 tablespoons of the parsley and bring to a boil. 3  Pour the mixture over the lamb and cover with foil. 4  Braise in the oven for about 3 hours, or until the lamb shanks are very tender.
1 Cook on Low until lamb is very tender and almost falling off the bone, 6 to 8 hours. 2  Transfer lamb shanks to a platter and cover with aluminum foil. 3  Transfer the sauce in the slow cooker to a large skillet; simmer over high heat until sauce is reduced to about 2 cups, 10 to 15 minutes. 4  Season sauce with salt and pepper. Ready In. 1  Put flour into a shallow wide bowl. 2  Season lamb shanks all over with salt and pepper; dredge through the flour until coated, shaking off any excess flour. 3  Heat a large skillet over medium heat; add butter and heat until foaming. 4  Cook lamb shanks in the hot butter until golden, about 5 minutes per side.
1 Transfer lamb shanks to a platter and cover with aluminum foil. 2  Transfer the sauce in the slow cooker to a large skillet; simmer over high heat until sauce is reduced to about 2 cups, 10 to 15 minutes. 3  Season sauce with salt and pepper. Ready In. 1  Put flour into a shallow wide bowl. 2  Season lamb shanks all over with salt and pepper; dredge through the flour until coated, shaking off any excess flour. 3  Heat a large skillet over medium heat; add butter and heat until foaming. 4  Cook lamb shanks in the hot butter until golden, about 5 minutes per side.
Preparation: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. In a large, heavy skillet (I like to use my cast-iron skillet over medium-high, heat 2 tablespoons of the olive oil. Add the lamb shanks, season with salt and pepper and cook over moderate heat until well browned all over, approximately 10 to 15 minutes. Bake in the oven for about 3 hours, or until the lamb shanks are very tender. Remove from oven. Increase the oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Transfer the lamb shanks to a large, deep baking dish, cover with aluminum foil and keep warm.
Add the wine, bring to a boil over moderately high heat and simmer for 3 minutes. Add the tomatoes, chicken stock, orange zest, oregano, and 2 tablespoons of the parsley; bring to a boil. Pour the mixture over the lamb and cover with foil. Bake in the oven for about 3 hours, or until the lamb shanks are very tender. Remove from oven. Increase the oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Transfer the lamb shanks to a large, deep baking dish, cover with aluminum foil and keep warm.