E. coli is a type of bacteria that normally live in the intestines of people and animals. However, some types of E. coli, particularly E. coli 0157:H7, can cause intestinal infection. Symptoms of intestinal infection include diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. More severe cases can lead to bloody diarrhea, dehydration, or kidney failure.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it. The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1 
E. coli can be especially dangerous to children, causing damage to vital organs such as the kidneys. Food poisoning often occurs when food is prepared or handled in a way that's unsanitary, contaminating it with pathogens such as E. coli. Elderly may be more susceptible to the dangers of E. coli contamination. 
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. Although most strains of E. coli are harmless, others can make you sick. Some kinds of E. coli can cause diarrhea, while others cause urinary tract infections, respiratory illness and pneumonia, and other illnesses.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) is a type of bacteria common in human and animal intestines, and forms part of the normal gut flora (the bacteria that exist in the bowel). There are a number of different types of E. coli and while the majority are harmless some can cause serious food poisoning and serious infection. For example, E. coli bacteria are a common cause of cystitis, an infection of the bladder that occurs when there is a spread of the bacteria from the gut to the urinary system. Women are more susceptible to urinary tract infection by E. coli because of the close proximity of the urethra and the anus.
Urine is supposed to be sterile. When any type of bacteria is found in a urine sample, it is indicative of a urinary tract infection (UTI). E. coli is a colliform that is natu … rally found in our digestive tract, particularly the large intestine. E. Coli   Escherichia coli, usually abbreviated to E. coli, (coli is latin for of the colon) discovered by Theodor Escherich, a German pediatrician and bacteriologist, i … s one of the main species of bacteria that live in the lower intestines of mammals, known as gut flora.
Escherichia coli (abbreviated as E. coli) are a large and diverse group of bacteria. Although most strains of E. coli are harmless, others can make you sick. Some kinds of E. coli can cause diarrhea, while others cause urinary tract infections, respiratory illness and pneumonia, and other illnesses.
In most otherwise healthy people, E coli in urine may only cause lower urinary tract infection. In some people, especially those with other medical problems or ones with very high numbers of E coli in urine, the infection can climb upwards. The full name of E coli is Escherichia Coli and it normally lives in the human colon. While most strains of E coli are harmless, some cause infection. When the harmful E coli finds a way to get out of the colon and climb up the urinary tract and cause kidney
It can go all the way up to the kidneys and cause kidney infection. When E coli in urine causes kidney infection, the symptoms may be different from that of lower urinary tract infection. Lower urinary tract infection with E coli usually causes symptoms that are limited to the urinary bladder and urethra. The full name of E coli is Escherichia Coli and it normally lives in the human colon. While most strains of E coli are harmless, some cause infection. When the harmful E coli finds a way to get out of the colon and climb up the urinary tract
E coli type 157:H7 is a virulent strain of E coli that has been the cause of several severe outbreaks of diarrhea. E coli O157:H7 bacteria are normally found in the intestines of cattle, poultry, and other animals. Symptoms of E.coli UTI. 1  Frequency of urine. 2  Urgency. 3  Painful micturition (urination). 4  Burning sensation while passing urine. 5  Blood or pus in urine. 6  Foul smelling urine. 7  Fever. 8  Chill. 9  Nausea. 10  Vomiting. 11  Abdominal pain and backache.