The majority of the saturated fat in coconut oil is in the form of lauric acid, which is why many consider it to be a healthier choice than other fat sources. There are studies that show that lauric acid can increase your HDL or healthy cholesterol and lower your LDL or lethal cholesterol. 
Fractionated coconut oil provides fractions of the whole oil so that its different fatty acids can be separated for specific uses. Lauric acid, a 12-carbon chain fatty acid, is often removed because of its high value for industrial and medical purposes. Other processes to increase shelf life include using copra with a moisture content below 6%, keeping the moisture content of the oil below 0.2%, heating the oil to 130–150 °C (266–302 °F) and adding salt or citric acid. Virgin coconut oil (VCO) can be produced from fresh coconut milk, meat, or residue.
Coconut oil contains medium chain fatty acids such as lauric (C-12), caprylic (C-10) and myristic (C-14) acids. Of these three, coconut oil contains 40% lauric acid, which has the greater anti-viral activity of these three fatty acids. Saturated fat – one that has a small degree of unsaturation or double bonds and tends to be more solid at room temperatures lower than 76 degrees F. Example: butter, coconut oil. Monounsaturated oil – Contains some saturated fat but is largely oleic acid, a mono-unsaturated oil, which contains only one double bond.
Coconut oil claims are primarily based on the reported beneficial effects of MCTs. About 58% of the fatty acids in coconut oil are medium-chain fatty acids—caprylic (7.4%), capric (5.9%) and lauric acid (44%). Because medium-chain fatty acids are saturated, 87% of the total fatty acids in coconut oil are saturated (Vannice 2014). MCTs (specifically those consisting of capric and caprylic acid (DeLany 2000)) have been touted as being more efficiently metabolized and less likely to be stored as fat.
Lauric acid is indeed a known antimicrobial agent. That gives coconut oil some interesting properties and some promise for people recovering from viruses. Some Indonesian cultures also use coconut oil to dress wounds [source: Sachs ]. Coconut oil also comes with some more dubious claims. 
Because the majority of saturated fat in coconut oil is lauric acid, coconut oil may be preferred over partially hydrogenated vegetable oil when solid fats are used in the diet. Other processes to increase shelf life include using copra with a moisture content below 6%, keeping the moisture content of the oil below 0.2%, heating the oil to 130–150 °C (266–302 °F) and adding salt or citric acid. Virgin coconut oil (VCO) can be produced from fresh coconut milk, meat, or residue.
Lauric acid is a powerful virus and gram-negative bacteria destroyer, and coconut oil contains the most lauric acid of any substance on Earth! Capric acid, another coconut fatty acid present in smaller amounts, has also been added to the list of coconut's antimicrobial components. This is one of the key reasons you should consider consuming coconut oil, because there aren't many sources of monolaurin in our diet.
Coconut oil, or copra oil, is an edible oil extracted from the kernel or meat of mature coconuts harvested from the coconut palm (Cocos nucifera). Other processes to increase shelf life include using copra with a moisture content below 6%, keeping the moisture content of the oil below 0.2%, heating the oil to 130–150 °C (266–302 °F) and adding salt or citric acid. Virgin coconut oil (VCO) can be produced from fresh coconut milk, meat, or residue.
About half of virgin coconut oil's saturated fat is lauric acid, a medium-chain triglyceride that turns out to have a number of health-promoting properties, including the ability to improve levels of good HDL cholesterol. 
About COCONUT ACID: Coconut Acid is a mixture of fatty acids derived from Cocos Nucifera (Coconut) Oil (q.v.). Function(s): Surfactant-Cleansing AgentSurfactant-Cleansing Agent is included as a function for the soap form of Coconut Acid.; EMOLLIENT; EMULSIFYING. 