The New Zealand green-lipped mussel (Perna canaliculus) — also known as the New Zealand mussel, the greenshell mussel, kuku, and kutai — is a bivalve mollusc in the family Mytilidae (the true mussels). P. canaliculus has economic importance as a cultivated species in New Zealand. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. A mussel is a type of bivalve mollusk that can be found in fresh water lakes, streams, and creeks, along with the salty intertidal zone where oceans meet the shore. The primary diet of a mussel is plankton, microscopic one-celled organisms which float freely in salt and fresh water. Along with other shellfish, mussels are filter feeders, sucking in water and nutrients to eat.
The Nutrition of Mussels. Mussels are mollusks found in fresh water and salt water habitats. They are longer and more elongated that other types of edible mollusks like clams. They are frequently found attached and clumped together on wave-washed rocks. To reach market size it takes mussels over a year to grow. 
Full Definition of MUSSEL. 1. : a marine bivalve mollusk (especially genus Mytilus) usually having a dark elongated shell. 2. : a freshwater bivalve mollusk (as of Unio, Anodonta, or related genera) that is especially abundant in rivers of the central United States and has a shell with a lustrous nacreous lining. See mussel defined for English-language learners. See mussel defined for kids. Definition of MUSSEL for Kids. 1. : a saltwater shellfish that has a long dark shell in two parts and is sometimes used as food. 2. : a freshwater clam of the United States with shells from which mother-of-pearl is obtained.
Technically, a freshwater mussel is a bivalved mollusk that lives in fresh water. They are also referred to as freshwater clams, naiads and unionids ((the scientific name for the group to which most mussels belong). More commonly, they live from 10 to 50 years depending on the species. Mussels have growth lines on the outside of the shell, like rings on a tree. In many cases, these growth lines represent years in the mussel’s life.
Zebra mussels. Many zebra mussels attached to a native mussel. Species and Origin: Zebra mussels are small, fingernail-sized animals that attach to solid surfaces in water. Adults are 1/4 to 1-1/2 inches long and have D-shaped shells, often with alternating yellow and brownish colored stripes. Female zebra mussels can produce 100,000 to 500,000 eggs per year.
The word mussel is most frequently used to mean the edible bivalves of the marine family Mytilidae, most of which live on exposed shores in the intertidal zone, attached by means of their strong byssal threads (beard) to a firm substrate. In marine mussels, the foot is smaller, tongue-like in shape, with a groove on the ventral surface which is continuous with the byssus pit. In this pit, a viscous secretion is exuded, entering the groove and hardening gradually upon contact with sea water.
The common name mussel is also used for many freshwater bivalves, including the freshwater pearl mussels. Freshwater mussel species inhabit lakes, ponds, rivers, creeks, canals, and they are classified in a different subclass of bivalves, despite some very superficial similarities in appearance. In marine mussels, the foot is smaller, tongue-like in shape, with a groove on the ventral surface which is continuous with the byssus pit. In this pit, a viscous secretion is exuded, entering the groove and hardening gradually upon contact with sea water.