An interpersonal therapy group is a group of people (usually 6 - 8 people) who meet together weekly with one or two therapists to work through relational issues that lead to psychological symptoms or dissatisfaction in relationships. Sometimes the groups are co-ed and sometimes they are gender specific. 
Interpersonal therapy focuses on social roles and relationships. The patient works with a therapist to evaluate specific problem areas in the patient’s life, such as conflicts with family or friends or significant life changes. Interpersonal therapy is typically short-term (lasting two to four months or until symptoms subside), though it can continue up to two to three years depending on the patient’s needs.
Interpersonal therapy primarily focuses on the way our relationships affect us and also how other mental health difficulties can affect our relationships. Helping with a variety of concerns, the therapy has been recommended for depression, anxiety and eating disorders. Dynamic interpersonal therapy. Dynamic interpersonal therapy (or DIT for short) is a type of interpersonal therapy. Similarly to interpersonal therapy, DIT is a time-limited, structured therapy with a focus on interpersonal
(December 2012). Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a time-limited treatment that encourages the patient to regain control of mood and functioning typically lasting 12–16 weeks. IPT focuses on a specific vulnerability to social stressors, such as differing role expectations in a dyadic relationship (Weissman, et al, 2007), but does not include a personality theory or attempt to conceptualize or treat personality (Prochaska, 1984, Systems of Psychotherapy: A Transtheoretical Analysis).
Interpersonal therapy (IPT) for depression is a form of psychotherapy that focuses on the relationships between a person and significant others. It is based on the idea that humans, as social beings, have their personal relationships at the center of psychological problems. 
Interpersonal therapy is unique in that it focuses on one or two specific problem areas and is designed to bring about a rapid reduction in symptoms. Other benefits include: 1  Improved relationships. 2  Skills for coping in healthier ways. 3  Enhanced problem-solving and communication skills. Interpersonal therapy is typically short-term (lasting two to four months or until symptoms subside), though it can continue up to two to three years depending on the patient’s needs.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is a time-limited treatment that encourages the patient to regain control of mood and functioning typically lasting 12–16 weeks. IPT focuses on a specific vulnerability to social stressors, such as differing role expectations in a dyadic relationship (Weissman, et al, 2007), but does not include a personality theory or attempt to conceptualize or treat personality (Prochaska, 1984, Systems of Psychotherapy: A Transtheoretical Analysis).
Interpersonal therapy, or IPT, is a short-term, limited-focus treatment for depression. Studies have shown that IPT, which addresses interpersonal issues, may be at least as effective as short-term treatment with antidepressants for mild to moderate forms of clinical depression. By addressing interpersonal issues, interpersonal therapy for depression puts emphasis on the way symptoms are related to a person's relationships, including family and peers. Recommended Related to Depression.
Interpersonal therapy: A form of psychotherapy in which the focus is on a patient's relationships with peers and family members and the way they see themselves. Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is based on exploring issues in relationships with other people. 
By Michael Herkov, Ph.D ~ 1 min read. Interpersonal therapy focuses on the interpersonal relationships of the depressed person. The idea of interpersonal therapy is that depression can be treated by improving the communication patterns and how people relate to others. 