Similarly, it would be odd if everyone had a zombie virus and then get bit by a zombie, that you die from a little more of that virus. So scientifically, it's not quite how viruses work however in nature there are some viruses that zombify the bodies that they occupy.. Chat with Matt and Amanda on Twitter!
The usual assumption is that none of us is actually a zombie, and that zombies cannot exist in our world. The central question, however, is not whether zombies can exist in our world, but whether they, or a whole zombie world (which is sometimes a more appropriate idea to work with), are possible in some broader sense.
No, it's not possible for zombies to exist. To even think that zombies could exist in the form shown in movies is ridiculous. Even if some foreign parasite took over the brain, once the body is dead, the organs would stop functioning. Blood would collect in the lower extremities, making it basically impossible to move.
Few people, if any, think zombies actually exist. But many hold they are at least conceivable, and some that they are possible. It seems that if zombies really are possible, then physicalism is false and some kind of dualism is true. For many philosophers that is the chief importance of the zombie idea.
Airborne Rabies Would Create Rage Virus. But for the rabies virus to trigger a zombie pandemic like in the movies, it would also have to be much more contagious. Humans typically catch rabies after being bitten by an infected animal, usually a dog—and the infection usually stops there.
But if everyone already has the virus, that means humans are what scientists call a 'reservoir' to that virus. Now when you're a reservoir for a virus, that virus is not affecting you, it's not killing you so we think for example, we have some evidence to suggest that bats are a reservoir for Ebola.
Confidence votes 23. Nothing is impossible with the little knowledge humans have, but the likelihood of humans dying from a virus then coming back to life is highly improbable. If there was a virus with the symptoms we associated with zombies, the infected would probably not die.
Scientists have proven that a zombie virus isn't possible, but there is a possibility of a fungus that could take over the body. There is also a possibility that a zombie epidemic could be started through prions.