General Information. Water-borne diseases are any illness caused by drinking water contaminated by human or animal faeces, which contain pathogenic microorganisms. The full picture of water-associated diseases is complex for a number of reasons
Harmful organisms, such as bacteria, protozoa, or virus, travel through water sources and reach people upon drinking or food handling. Severe diarrhea. More of a symptom of a gastrointestinal infection than a disease, diarrhea means having watery stools more than three times a day caused by E.Coli or other pathogens. Constant elimination of body fluid causes severe dehydration that can sometimes result in complications or death. Hepatitis A. This condition is acquired when drinking fecal-contaminated water. The symptoms of Hepatitis A include fatigue, fever, abdominal pain, itching, and jaundice.
Waterborne diseases are caused by pathogenic microorganisms that most commonly are transmitted in contaminated fresh water. Various other waterborne diseases are caused by viruses. (In spite of philosophical difficulties associated with defining viruses as  organisms , it is practical and convenient to regard them as microorganisms in this connection.).
Transmitted by drinking water with the bacteria Vibrio cholerae (from feces), cholera is one of the rapidly fatal illnesses ever known. Symptoms include watery stool, vomiting, and a rapid pulse that may result in death after 12-18 hours. Flukes. Parasitic worms usually live in stagnant water. Constant elimination of body fluid causes severe dehydration that can sometimes result in complications or death. Hepatitis A. This condition is acquired when drinking fecal-contaminated water. The symptoms of Hepatitis A include fatigue, fever, abdominal pain, itching, and jaundice.
Waterborne Diseases. Waterborne diseases are caused by drinking contaminated or dirty water. Contaminated water can cause many types of diarrheal diseases, including Cholera, and other serious illnesses such as Guinea worm disease, Typhoid, and Dysentery. Water related diseases cause 3.4 million deaths each year. 
Causes and Symptoms of Waterborne Illness. Waterborne illness is caused by recreational or drinking water contaminated by disease-causing microbes or pathogens. Of note, many waterborne pathogens can also be acquired by consuming contaminated food or beverages, from contact with animals or their environment, or through person-to-person spread. On this page: Waterborne illnesses can cause a variety of symptoms. While diarrhea and vomiting are the most commonly reported symptoms of waterborne illness, other symptoms can include skin, ear, respiratory, or eye problems.
Cholera is an infection in the small intestine caused by the bacteria ‘vibrio chlorae’. Its symptoms are diarrhea and vomiting. It is caused by drinking water or eating food that has been contaminated by feces, i.e waste products of an infected person. When their untreated diarrheal discharge gets into the water system such as groundwater or drinking water, it affects the other people. 6. Hepatitis A. It is an infectious disease of the liver caused by hepatitis A virus(HAV) usually spread by fecal-oral route, person-to-person by ingestion of contaminated food or water or through direct contact with infectious person.
Drinking contaminated water is the primary cause of infectious diseases. Harmful organisms, such as bacteria, protozoa, or virus, travel through water sources and reach people upon drinking or food handling. Severe diarrhea. More of a symptom of a gastrointestinal infection than a disease, diarrhea means having watery stools more than three times a day caused by E.Coli or other pathogens.
Cholera. Transmitted by drinking water with the bacteria Vibrio cholerae (from feces), cholera is one of the rapidly fatal illnesses ever known. Symptoms include watery stool, vomiting, and a rapid pulse that may result in death after 12-18 hours. Flukes. Harmful organisms, such as bacteria, protozoa, or virus, travel through water sources and reach people upon drinking or food handling. Severe diarrhea. More of a symptom of a gastrointestinal infection than a disease, diarrhea means having watery stools more than three times a day caused by E.Coli or other pathogens.