This optimum temperature ice for snow can be consistently achieved by first storing the ice blocks in a chest freezer set at 0° F overnight. Take the ice directly from the chest freezer to the snow machine as needed. If the ice in the snow machine reaches an undesirable temperature, return the ice to the freezer. This is the optimum temperature ice for the best quality snow. To hold the ice at this optimum temperature for an extended period of time, close the lid on the ice chest. If the ice in the machine reaches an undesirable temperature, return the ice to the freezer.
So i would say that is quite an optimum temperature, but the range is anything from -273oC to 4oC but the colder it is, the drier the air usually is. so snow is at its best around 0oC. Usually, the temperature has to be around 36 or 37 degrees or colder at the onset of snow, in which, the snow will fall, but melt on contact unless it falls very heavily.
Even when the outdoor temperature is below freezing (32°F) snow quality can be poor or slushy. This is because much of the water is not staying or even turning into the frozen state. If you refer to our snowmaking weather chart, you will see what the ideal temperatures are for snow making. 
28 degrees and lower 32 degrees Fahrenheit, or 0 degrees Celsius. 32 The temperature has to be 32 degrees Fahrenheit or lower for snow to form in the atmosphere, but the te … mperature on the ground can be higher.
Precipitation falls as snow when the air temperature is below 2 °C. It is a myth that it needs to be below zero to snow. In fact, in this country, the heaviest snow falls tend to occur when the air temperature is between zero and 2 °C. This 'dry' snow is ideal for snow sports but is more likely to drift in windy weather. When the temperature is slightly warmer than 0 °C, the snowflakes will melt around the edges and stick together to become big, heavy flakes. This creates 'wet' snow which sticks together easily and is good for making snow men.
If the temperature is around 30 F (-1 C), you need a fairly low relative humidity (less than 30 percent) for good snow-making conditions. If the temperature is less than 20 F (-6.7 C), you can make snow fairly easily even if the relative humidity is 100 percent. A temperature in the teens is ideal for snow-making. If the humidity level is low enough, you can actually get snow even when the dry bulb temperature is several degrees above freezing. If the relative humidity is 100 percent, then the wet bulb temperature and the dry bulb temperature will be exactly the same.
Dear Tom, What is the optimal temperature for snow to... November 26, 2001 | By Tom Skilling, chief meteorologist at WGN-TV. Dear Andy, Certain atmospheric conditions must exist before snow can occur: the presence of water vapor in air at subfreezing temperatures, a mechanism to chill that air below its saturation temperature, and conditions that allow tiny ice crystals to grow into snowflakes that can fall to the ground.
But because the amount of water vapor that can be present in air increases dramatically with increasing temperature, the greatest amount of snow is possible when the temperature is as high as it can be for snow to occur, and that temperature is 32 (degrees). ----------. Tom Skilling is chief meteorologist at WGN-TV. Dear Andy, Certain atmospheric conditions must exist before snow can occur: the presence of water vapor in air at subfreezing temperatures, a mechanism to chill that air below its saturation temperature, and conditions that allow tiny ice crystals to grow into snowflakes that can fall to the ground.
When the air temperature at the ground is less than 32 F, the precipitation begins falling as snow from the clouds. Since it is falling into cold air, the snow does not melt on the way down and reaches the ground as snow. This is why cold air is important for there to be snow. Once in a while, a very thin layer of warm air is found near the surface and temperatures may be several degrees above freezing. Most precipitation that reaches the ground actually begins as snow high in the atmosphere. These snow flakes develop somewhere above the freezing level where the air temperature is less than 32 F (the dashed blue line), and begin to fall toward the earth as snow.