The most popular, orange rooted carrot, is derived from yellow rooted domestic varieties. Early writings in classical Greek and Roman times refer to edible white roots, but these may have also been parsnips, or both. There are white rooted carrots in existence today, often used as animal feed or a novelty crop. Carrot cultivation spread to Spain in the 1100s via the Middle East and North Africa. In Europe, genetic improvement led to a wide variety of cultivars. White and orange-coloured carrots were first described in Western Europe in the early 1600s (Banga 1963) . Concomitantly, the Asiatic carrot was developed from the Afghan type and a red type appeared in China and India around the 1700s (Laufer 1919; Shinohara 1984) 
All varieties of modern domesticated carrots descend from the wild carrot (Daucus carota). This plant was native to Europe and Southwest Asia and was thought to have originated from Iran and Afghanistan. The wild carrot root is edible, but becomes woody with age and is quite bitter. Today, there are many varieties of carrots and they are grown throughout much of the world. However, these modern carrots all share a common ancestor. Let’s find out where carrots come from.
The cultivated carrot is believed to originate from Afghanistan before the 900s, as this area is described as the primary centre of greatest carrot diversity (Mackevic 1929) , Turkey being proposed as a secondary centre of origin (Banga 1963) . The first cultivated carrots exhibited purple or yellow roots. Carrot cultivation spread to Spain in the 1100s via the Middle East and North Africa. In Europe, genetic improvement led to a wide variety of cultivars. White and orange-coloured carrots were first described in Western Europe in the early 1600s (Banga 1963) . Concomitantly, the Asiatic carrot was developed from the Afghan type and a red type appeared in China and India around the 1700s (Laufer 1919; Shinohara 1984) 
Confidence votes 3.9K. The wild ancestor of the modern carrot is believed to be from Afghanistan. Over the centuries selective breeding of the naturally occurring subspecies reduces the bitterness and size of the core and increased the carrots sweetness. Originally carrots were grown for their leaves and not the root. The modern carrot was introduced to Europe around the 8-10th centuries. In the 17th century orange carrots appeared for the first time in the Netherlands when previously yellow and purple varieties had been grown. A carrot is a root vegetable that grows under ground.
2) Western or Carotene carrots: These have orange, red or white roots. Most likely these carrots derived from the first group by selection among hybrid progenies of yellow Eastern carrots, white carrots and wild subspecies grown in the Mediterranean. The first two originated by mutation. Carrot cultivation spread to Spain in the 1100s via the Middle East and North Africa. In Europe, genetic improvement led to a wide variety of cultivars. White and orange-coloured carrots were first described in Western Europe in the early 1600s (Banga 1963) . Concomitantly, the Asiatic carrot was developed from the Afghan type and a red type appeared in China and India around the 1700s (Laufer 1919; Shinohara 1984) 
The origin of Carrots:   carrots first arrived in Sweden in the 1840's by a Spanish female settler named Isabel. Some time in May, Isabel was galloping through the forest i … n search of food. She spotted an unfamiliar animal in the forest. The modern carrot was introduced to Europe around the 8-10th centuries. In the 17th century orange carrots appeared for the first time in the Netherlands when previously yellow and purple varieties had been grown. A carrot is a root vegetable that grows under ground.
Carrots began to be cultivated in Europe by the 13th century (1200s), with many doctors prescribing carrots for medicinal purposes for ailments as varied as syphilis and animal bites! The Medieval Europeans were very much in awe of the ancients and inclined to borrow heavily from them. In 1871 America developed its first carrot. It is called the Danvers carrot from its origins in Danvers, MA. However, the carrot did not become popular in the U.S. until after World War I (1914-1918) when doughboys returning from the war had been exposed to the carrot in French and other European cuisine.
I t is believed that the Carrot originated some 5000 years ago in Middle Asia around Afghanistan, and slowly spread into the Mediterranean area. The first recorded carrots (ad 900 Afghanistan) were mainly purple or yellow, with some white or black-not orange. 
The carrot (Daucus carota subsp. sativus) is a root vegetable, usually orange in colour, though purple, red, white, and yellow varieties exist. It has a crisp texture when fresh. The most commonly eaten part of a carrot is a taproot, although the greens are sometimes eaten as well. It is a domesticated form of the wild carrot Daucus carota, native to Europe and southwestern Asia. The domestic carrot has been selectively bred for its greatly enlarged and more palatable, less woody-textured edible taproot. The western carrot emerged in the Netherlands in the 17th century, There is a popular belief that its orange colour making it popular in those countries as an emblem of the House of Orange and the struggle for Dutch independence, although there is little evidence for this.