Conditions listing Spondylolisthesis as a symptom may also be potential underlying conditions. For a more detailed analysis of Spondylolisthesis as a symptom, including causes, drug side effect causes, and drug interaction causes, please see our Symptom Center information for Spondylolisthesis. 1  Cleidocranial dysplasia. 
What is Spondylolisthesis. Medical Defination. Spondylolisthesis is the medical condition wherein one of the vertebras of the patient’s spine shifts forward or backward in regards with the adjoining vertebras. This displacement can be of a single vertebra or the whole vertebral column. 
Minimally Invasive Spine Surgery for Spondylolisthesis. Spondylolisthesis is a condition of the spine characterized by the forward displacement of a vertebra over an underlying vertebra. A significant displacement can cause a compression of the spinal nerves resulting in pain. 
Congenital or dysplastic spondylolisthesis is a defect in the posterior part of L5 or S1, and the abnormal orientation of the bones permits forward slippage of one vertebra on another. It is a rare condition and is frequently associated with neurologic involvement. Spondylolysis, which is generally a stress fracture in the posterior part of the vertebra, called the pars interarticularis, is present in this type of spondylolisthesis. Spondylolysis is the most common caus
In order to understand this condition, and a related condition called spondylolysis, which is a precursor for some types of spondylolisthesis, it is important to review the components of the spine and how they function. 1 5 lumbar vertebrae which form the lower back and are the largest and strongest of the vertebrae. 2  They are the source of attachment of many strong back muscles. 3  5 vertebrae fused together form the sacrum, which is triangular in shape and connects the spine to the pelvis.
The prevalence rate of isthmic spondylolisthesis is approximately 5% at age 5-7 years, with an increase to 6-7% by age 18 years. This condition is twice as common in males as in females, and the prevalence is lower in blacks (2.8%, black men; 1.1%, black women) than in whites (6.4%, white men; 2.3%, white women). Isthmic spondylolisthesis is further divided into the following 3 subtypes: Type IIA, or lytic spondylolisthesis, involves a defect in the pars area and is thought to result from recurrent microfractures from the impact of the articular processes against the pars while in extension.
Importantly, spondylolysis only refers to the separation of the pars interarticularis (a small bony arch in the back of the spine between the facet joints), whereas spondylolisthesis refers to anterior slippage of one vertebra over another (in the front of the spine). Since spondylolysis is the most common cause of spondylolisthesis, it may be referred to as an isthmic spondylolisthesis and sometimes these terms are used interchangeably, although this is not correct.
With the condition of spondylolisthesis, the pars interarticularis defect can be on one side of the spine only (unilateral) or both sides (bilateral). The most common level it is found is at L5-S1, although spondylolisthesis can occur at L4-5 and rarely at a higher level. Since spondylolysis is the most common cause of spondylolisthesis, it may be referred to as an isthmic spondylolisthesis and sometimes these terms are used interchangeably, although this is not correct.
Spondylolysis is the most common cause of isthmic spondylolisthesis, in which one vertebral body is slipped forward over another. Isthmic spondylolisthesis is the most common cause of back pain in adolescents; however, most adolescents with spondylolisthesis do not actually experience any symptoms or pain. Cases of either neurological deficits or paralysis are exceedingly rare, and for the most part it is not a dangerous condition. Since spondylolysis is the most common cause of spondylolisthesis, it may be referred to as an isthmic spondylolisthesis and sometimes these terms are used interchangeably, although this is not correct.