Conjunctivitis is often called pink eye or red eye because it can cause the white of the eye to take on a pink or red color. The most common causes of conjunctivitis are viruses, bacteria, and allergens. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye.
Conjunctivitis is the inflammation of the conjunctiva, a thin, delicate membrane that covers the eyeball and lines the eyelid. It may be caused by a viral infection, such as a cold or acute respiratory infection, or by such diseases as measles, herpes simplex, or herpes zoster. Conjunctivitis may be caused by a viral infection, such as a cold, acute respiratory infection, or disease such as measles, herpes simplex, or herpes zoster. Symptoms include mild to severe discomfort in one or both eyes, redness, swelling of the eyelids, and watery, yellow, or green discharge.
Conjunctivitis when caused by an infection is most commonly caused by a viral infection. Bacterial infections, allergies, other irritants and dryness are also common causes. Both bacterial and viral infections are contagious and passed from person to person, but can also spread through contaminated objects or water. Inclusion conjunctivitis of the newborn (ICN) is a conjunctivitis that may be caused by the bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis, and may lead to acute, purulent conjunctivitis. However, it is usually self-healing. Conjunctivitis is identified by irritation and redness of the conjunctiva.
Conjunctivitis is the inflammation of the conjunctiva, a thin, delicate membrane that covers the eyeball and lines the eyelid. It may be caused by a viral infection, such as a cold or acute respiratory infection, or by such diseases as measles, herpes simplex, or herpes zoster. Conjunctivitis may be caused by a viral infection, such as a cold; acute respiratory infection; or other disease such as measles, herpes simplex, or herpes zoster. Symptoms include mild to severe discomfort in one or both eyes; redness; swelling of the eyelids; and watery, yellow, or green discharge.
Conjunctivitis is the inflammation of the conjunctiva, a thin, delicate membrane that covers the eyeball and lines the eyelid. Conjunctivitis is an extremely common eye disease because the conjunctiva is continually exposed to microorganisms and environmental agents that can cause infections or allergic reactions. Conjunctivitis may be caused by a viral infection, such as a cold; acute respiratory infection; or other disease such as measles, herpes simplex, or herpes zoster. Symptoms include mild to severe discomfort in one or both eyes; redness; swelling of the eyelids; and watery, yellow, or green discharge.
Viral conjunctivitis is highly contagious. Most viruses that cause conjunctivitis are spread through hand-to-eye contact by hands or objects that are contaminated with the infectious virus. Hands can become contaminated by coming in contact with infectious tears, eye discharge, fecal matter, or respiratory discharges. Most bacteria that cause conjunctivitis are spread through direct hand-to-eye contact from contaminated hands. People can get conjunctivitis just by touching or using something that has been infected by a person who has the eye infection.
Common causes of bacterial conjunctivitis, an inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctivas, include staphylococci, streptococci, gonococci, and Chlamydia. Complications are expected to develop only in cases caused by extremely pathogenic bacteria, such as C trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Background. Inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctiva, or conjunctivitis, can be caused by allergies, viruses, or bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis is commonly caused by staphylococci, streptococci, chlamydial organism, and gonococci.
(May 2012). Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye is inflammation of the conjunctiva (the outermost layer of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids). It is commonly due to an infection (usually viral, but sometimes bacterial or parasitic), or an allergic reaction. Inclusion conjunctivitis of the newborn (ICN) is a conjunctivitis that may be caused by the bacteria Chlamydia trachomatis, and may lead to acute, purulent conjunctivitis. However, it is usually self-healing. Conjunctivitis is identified by irritation and redness of the conjunctiva.
Bacterial Conjunctivitis. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye. 2  Is a leading cause of children being absent from day care or school (Patel, 2007)