The Galapagos penguin (Spheniscus mendiculus) is a penguin endemic to the Galapagos Islands. It is the only penguin that lives north of the equator in the wild. It can survive due to the cool temperatures resulting from the Humboldt Current and cool waters from great depths brought up by the Cromwell Current. The average Galapagos penguin is 49 centimetres (19 in) long and 2.5 kilograms (5.5 lb) in weight. It is the second smallest species of penguin. They have a black head with a white border running from behind the eye, around the black ear-coverts and chin, to join on the throat.
Galapagos Islands Description. Sitting right atop the Equator, approximately 600 miles directly west of Ecuador, the Galapagos Islands had no original inhabitants. They were discovered in 1535 by Tomas de Berlanga, the Spanish Bishop of Panama, when his ship drifted by the islands. The Galapagos Islands first appeared on maps in the late 16th century, and were named Insulae de los Galopegos (Islands of the Tortoises) in reference to the giant tortoises found there.
The Caymans are north of the equator.   The Cayman Islands are south of Cuba, and NW of Jamaica, in the Caribbean Sea. 1 There are thousands of islands, large and small, in multiple groups. 2  Nearly all of them a…. 3  Reveling in the Resort of South Padre Island, Texas This broad strip of white sand, the largest barrier island in the world, is generally known as Padre Island. 4  San Padre is a popular reference to the general area.
The Galapagos Islands are located on the Equator, about 907 km (600 miles) west of the mainland Ecuadorian coast. There are four islands with inhabitants on them (not touris … ts), and these are Santa Cruz, Isabela, San Cristobal and Floreana. The Galapagos Islands are located in the Pacific Ocean 1000 Km. (600 miles) west of the coast of Ecuador in South America. The Galapagos Islands are composed of 13 major Islan … ds, 6 smaller ones and more than 40 islets. + 68 others found this useful.
The islands are famed for their vast number of endemic species and were studied by Charles Darwin during the voyage of the Beagle. His observations and collections contributed to the inception of Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection. The Galapagos Galápagos islands is one of the few places in the world without an indigenous. Population the largest ethnic group is composed Of Ecuadorian, mestizos the mixed descendants Of spanish colonists and Indigenous Native, americans who arrived mainly in the last century from the continental part Of. ecuador
The islands are located in the eastern Pacific Ocean, 973 km (605 mi) off the west coast of South America. The closest land mass is that of mainland Ecuador, the country to which they belong, 926 km/500 nmi to the east. Orthographic projection centred over the Galapagos. galápagos The Galapagos Galápagos islands is one of the few places in the world without an indigenous. Population the largest ethnic group is composed Of Ecuadorian, mestizos the mixed descendants Of spanish colonists and Indigenous Native, americans who arrived mainly in the last century from the continental part Of. ecuador
The endemic Galapagos fur sea lions are the smallest among the world's seven species of fur sea lions. The Galapagos Marine Iguana is the only marine lizard to exist in the world. The Galapagos Islands are home to the world's largest cormorant and the only one unable to fly. Galapagos has one of the world's rarest ecosystems in which the herbivores at the top of the food chain are reptiles. Galapagos Swallow-tailed gulls are the only gulls in the world to feed at night. Galapagos Animals. The Galapagos penguin is the only to be found in the northern hemisphere and to breed in the tropics. A Galapagos tortoise can weigh up to 595lb (270kg) with a carapace length of 4ft (1.2m) and outlive most humans.
The Islands. The Galapagos Islands straddle the equator 600 miles off the coast of mainland Ecuador in the Pacific Ocean. Over time, the bases of these mountains joined together and created the Galapagos Platform, a basaltic submarine plateau on which the island chain now sits. When the tips of the mountains finally reached the ocean’s surface five million years ago, the islands were officially born.