Having bradycardia (say bray-dee-KAR-dee-uh) means that your heart beats very slowly. For most people, a heart rate of 60 to 100 beats a minute while at rest is considered normal. If your heart beats less than 60 times a minute, it is slower than normal. A slow heart rate can be normal and healthy. Or it could be a sign of a problem with the heart's electrical system. For some people, a slow heart rate does not cause any problems
When someone refers to resting pulse rate, it often means the rate at which the heart beats when the body is at rest. Resting pulse rates within a normal range is an indication of good health, asserts the National Institutes of Health. For women, a normal resting heart rate isn't different than in a man. The National Institutes of Health state that 60 to 100 beats per minute is considered normal for a resting pulse rate. Any female over 10 years of age should fall within this resting pulse rate range, unless they are well-trained athletically. 
Thus, a normal heart rate for women is between 70 to 80 beats per minute. For women that are into health and fitness and exercise regularly this range may go down and be between 45 to 60 beats per minute. Your heart rate is affected by factors such as: The normal heart rate for women is a measure of the resting rate. The resting heart rate is measured in BPM-beats per minute-which is a measurement that is best taken when you are breathing normally.
Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. Some people confuse high blood pressure with a high heart rate. Blood pressure is the measurement of the force of the blood against the walls of arteries, while pulse rate is the number of times your
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. Some people confuse high blood pressure with a high heart rate. Blood pressure is the measurement of the force of the blood against the walls of arteries, while pulse rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
Bradycardia = too slow A heart rate of less than 60 beats per minute (BPM) in adults is called bradycardia. What's too slow for you may depend on your age and physical condition. 1  Physically active adults often have a resting heart rate slower than 60 BPM but it doesn't cause problems. 
Identification. Your pulse rate is also called your heart rate. It is the number of times your heart beats per minute as it delivers blood, oxygen and nutrients to your bloodstream. Your pulse varies throughout the day. Your resting pulse is your rate when you first wake in the morning after a good night's sleep. A normal pulse rate at rest is between 60 and 100 beats per minute. Generally, a lower pulse rate means that your heart muscle is not having to beat too hard to do its job. However, if your pulse goes too low, it can be dangerous.