In June 2000 in Leeds Crown Court a Private Prosecution began against David Duckenfield, chief superintendent in charge of policing at Hillsborough on April 15th 1989, and his deputy superintendent Bernard Murray who was in control of the control room at the ground. David Duckenfield is a good, honest man who gives his time to others.This tragedy has ruined many lives it has left its mark on him. Mr Harrison for Mr Murray began his summing by stating that it was: Wrong, wrong and wrong again to seek solace in the prosecution of the man I represent.
detailed map of Duckenfield Hall and near places. Welcome to the Duckenfield Hall google satellite map! This place is situated in Saint Thomas, Jamaica, its geographical coordinates are 17° 56' 0 North, 76° 15' 0 West and its original name (with diacritics) is Duckenfield Hall. 
Plaque to John Golland on the side of the Town Hall. Dukinfield in now part of Tameside but was historically in the county of Cheshire and is covered in Pevsner's Buildings of England in the volume on Cheshire. Dukinfield is separated from Ashton under Lyne, which is in Lancashire, by the river Tame.
Mr Duckenfield, of West Parley, Bournemouth, Dorset, was the match commander for the FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest at the Hillsborough stadium in Sheffield on April 15, 1989. Proceedings against former Chief Supt David Duckenfield, 55, were stayed by a judge at Leeds Crown Court after a jury failed to reach verdicts on two specimen charges. Members of the Hillsborough Family Support Group applied yesterday for him to be retried over the deaths of John Anderson, 62, and James Aspinall, 18.
In regards to the prosecution being too oppressive on the poor souls of Duckenfield and Murray the defence argued that it was &quot;prompted by a distorted and misrepresented view of the facts (Jimmy McGovern's drama documentary). David Duckenfield is a good, honest man who gives his time to others.This tragedy has ruined many lives it has left its mark on him. Mr Harrison for Mr Murray began his summing by stating that it was: Wrong, wrong and wrong again to seek solace in the prosecution of the man I represent.
Image caption Former chief superintendent David Duckenfield was in charge of policing at Hillsborough stadium in 1989. The Hillsborough police match commander has agreed his failure to close a tunnel was the direct cause of the deaths of 96 people. David Duckenfield also accepted he froze during the afternoon of the 1989 football disaster. Mr Duckenfield was giving evidence for a sixth day at the new Hillsborough inquests in Warrington, Cheshire. He was being questioned by Paul Greaney QC on behalf of the Police Federation of England and Wales. Mr Duckenfield, now 70, had earlier denied claims he bottled it and panicked as the disaster unfolded
'Open the gates'. Mr Duckenfield, who had been stationed in the police control box with a bank of TV monitors, said he was shocked at the request from Supt Roger Marshall to open the Leppings Lane gates after police became overwhelmed by the number of fans. 
More. The town of Duckenfield is located in Hunter River country surrounded by rich pasture and farmlands. It was originally part of the estate of the wealthy landowner and businessman John Eales from 1799 to 1871. You can still view two of the estate’s houses, Berry Park House and Berry House along Duckenfield Road
David Duckenfield, PA ‘84. David is a partner at Balsera Communications, a Hispanic focused public affairs firm based in Miami, FL. Prior to joining Balsera Communications, Duckenfield was the director of U.S. Hispanic PR and Marketing for Yahoo! and managed its communications efforts in Latin America. 