Question: Explain how our nervous system enables our body to function. Well, the nervous system is our Control or Navigation Room. All of what we hear, see, taste, smell, ar … e controlled by our Nervous System and the Nervous System goes through a process that must be under a second.
Follow the prevention guidelines below to keep your body and nervous system healthy: 1  Exercise regularly. 2  Do not smoke or use other tobacco products. 3  Get plenty of rest. 4  Take care of health conditions that may cause decreased nervous system functioning, such as: 5  Diabetes. 6  High blood pressure. 7  Eat a balanced diet. 8  Drink plenty of water and other ...
1 Exercise regularly. 2  Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that will be right for you. 3  Do not smoke or use other tobacco products. 4  For more information, see the topic Quitting Smoking. 5  Get plenty of rest. 6  Take care of health conditions that may cause decreased nervous system functioning, such as: 7  Diabetes.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Some sleep experts suggest that neurons used during the day repair themselves during sleep. When we experience sleep deprivation, neurons are unable to perform effectively, and the nervous system is impaired.
Serotonin is a neurotransmitter, that is found in the spaces between the neurons (synapses) in the brain. Serotonin’s role in a healthy functioning central nervous system is to regulate vital functions such as sleep, sex drive, and appetite.
The amount of sleep each person needs depends on many factors, including age. Infants generally require about 16 hours a day, while teenagers need about 9 hours on average. For most adults, 7 to 8 hours a night appears to be the best amount of sleep.
1 Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that will be right for you. 2  Do not smoke or use other tobacco products. 3  For more information, see the topic Quitting Smoking. 4  Get plenty of rest. 5  Take care of health conditions that may cause decreased nervous system functioning, such as: 6  Diabetes. 7  High blood pressure.
Follow the prevention guidelines below to keep your body and nervous system healthy: 1  Exercise regularly. 2  Talk to your doctor about an exercise plan that will be right for you. 3  Do not smoke or use other tobacco products. 4  For more information, see the topic Quitting Smoking. 5  Get plenty of rest.