: either of the eighth pair of cranial nerves connecting the inner ear with the brain, transmitting impulses concerned with hearing and balance, and composed of the cochlear nerve and the vestibular nerve—called also acoustic nerve, auditory, eighth cranial nerve, vestibulocochlear nerve. Definition of AUDITORY NERVE. : either of the eighth pair of cranial nerves connecting the inner ear with the brain and transmitting impulses concerned with hearing and balance — see ear illustration. See auditory nerve defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. : either of the eighth pair of cranial nerves connecting the inner ear with the brain, ...
The cochlear nerve carries auditory sensory information from the cochlea of the inner ear directly to the brain. The other portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve is the vestibular nerve, which carries spatial orientation information to the brain from the semicircular canals. In terms of anatomy, an auditory nerve fiber is either bipolar or unipolar, with its distal projection being called the peripheral process, and its central projection being called the axon; these two projections are also known as the peripheral axon and the central axon, respectively.
The cochlear nerve (also auditory or acoustic nerve) is one of two parts of the vestibulocochlear nerve, a cranial nerve present in amniotes. In terms of anatomy, an auditory nerve fiber is either bipolar or unipolar, with its distal projection being called the peripheral process, and its central projection being called the axon; these two projections are also known as the peripheral axon and the central axon, respectively.
Medical Definition of COCHLEAR NERVE. : a branch of the auditory nerve that arises in the spiral ganglion of the cochlea and conducts sensory stimuli from the organ of hearing to the brain—called also cochlear, cochlear branch, cochlear division. 
1 Conductive hearing loss-when hearing loss is due to problems with the ear canal, ear drum, or middle ear and its little bones (the malleus, incus, and stapes). 2  Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) - when hearing loss is due to problems of the inner ear, also known as nerve-related hearing loss. 1
Auditory Nerve. Usually, hearing loss that is called sensorineural or nerve deafness is actually caused by problems with the cochlea, instead of the actual auditory nerve, but a very small percentage of hearing loss is caused by problems with the nerve, itself ... usually related to acoustic neuromas (tumors) on the nerve covering. The auditory nerve and the vestibular nerve, which carries balance information from the semicircular canals to the brain, join together as they pass through the bony canals of your skull. Together, they are called the 8th cranial nerve, or the Vestibulocochlear nerve.
The Auditory Nerve, also known as the Cochlear or acoustic nerve (part of the vestibulocochlear or 8th cranial nerve), is a sensory nerve, it is found in the head and transmits information from the inner ear (cochlea) to the brain in the form of sound (acoustic) energy that impinges on the ear drum (tympanic membrane). 
Cochlear nerve. The cochlear nerve, also known as the acoustic nerve, is the sensory nerve that transfers auditory information from the cochlea (auditory area of the inner ear) to the brain. It is one of the many pieces that make up the auditory system, which enables effective hearing. 