the orchestra was the main part of the stage where the chorus was located at. The word orchestra was derived from the word orcheisthai. Literally translated, it means the dancing place. The orchestra was in front of the skene and was at the center of the theatre. The orchestra was the space between the audience and the stage; primary chorus performance space in Greek theatre.
In classical drama, the skene was the background building to which the platform stage was connected, in which costumes were stored and to which the periaktoi (painted panels serving as the background) were connected. The skene also served as another hidden stage.. At times some of the action went on inside, in which case it was up to the audience to decide what was happening based on the noises coming from the inside. The proskenion was the main playing area.
Skene at the Roman theatre of Bosra, Syria. The evolution of the actor, who assumed an individual part and answered to the chorus (the word for actor, hypokrites, means answerer), introduced into drama a new form, the alternation of acted scenes, or episodes. The skene also served as another hidden stage.. At times some of the action went on inside, in which case it was up to the audience to decide what was happening based on the noises coming from the inside. The proskenion was the main playing area.
The word skene means tent or hut, and it is thought that the original building for this purpose was constructed of perishable material, such as wood, and was a temporary structure. The skene broke the circularity of design in the Greek theater. In the course of time, the skene underwent extensive alterations. At first it was a simple wooden structure; later it became a series of complex stone buildings (permanent) with such areas as the paraskenion, the proskenion, the hyposkenion, the episkenion with its thyromata, and the logeion. The skene also served as another hidden stage.. At times some of the action went on inside, in which case it was up to the audience to decide what was happening based on the noises coming from the inside. The proskenion was the main playing area.
The English term scenery when used in theatrical context has the same meaning as skene and derives from it, as does the work scene.. In the Greek theaters, the skene was directly behind the orchestra. Sources: 1  http://www.enotes.com/topics/greek-drama-fs. It developed a secondary meaning referring the edifice or backdrop used in Greek drama, a one or two story piece of painted scenery used to represent the location of the play and also as a convenient area behind which actors could change masks and costumes and make exits and entrances during the course of the play.
The word skene means tent or hut, and it is thought that the original building for this purpose was constructed of perishable material, such as wood, and was a temporary structure. The skene broke the circularity of design in the Greek theater. In the course of time, the skene underwent extensive alterations. 
1 The Actors. 2  The three actors used a stage called a 'skene.' The word 'skene' means a tent, and in the earliest theatres the actors probably acted on the ground beside the orchestra, and went into the tent when they needed to change masks, to come on as another person. 1 The Chorus. 2  The round flat dancing floor in the middle of the theatre was called the 'orchestra.' This is a Greek word meaning 'dancing floor.' In the middle of the orchestra was an altar to the god of theatre, Dionysus.
The orchestra is the area in front of an ancient Greek stage reserved for the Greek chorus. It was the round or semi-circular place for dancing in a Greek theater that had a sacrificial altar at the center. Skene, the Greek word from which we get the word scene, was originally a flat-roofed stage building. It served as a backstage area and could represent a palace or cave with a door from which actors could emerge. The theatron was where the audience of a Greek tragedy sat to view the performance. 
Skene. one of the three parts of the ancient Greek theater, the other two being the orchestra and auditorium. At first the skene was a temporary wooden structure where the actors changed costumes and from where they made their entrances. Beginning in the first half of the fifth century. 