Re: Toenails coming off after finishing chemo. Hi gilly. i finished my 6 cycles of chemo 3 years ago. approx 2 months after i finished my chemo (doxirubicin ..... ifosfamide....its been a while so the spellings will be wrong).
I can relate to what you have said--I finished my chemo in Dec 09 and thought that everything would go back to normal--not true. I think after chemo we have to find a new normal. I spend days thinking about last year when my life was normal. Everyone tells me it will get easier--that I hope is true. I have just finished my chemo and find myself struggling. My last treatment was 3 weeks ago. I was a little disappointed with my CA 125 as it only went down from 70 to 65. I have been in control all the way through my treatment, mainly because it was like a journey I had to travel along.
Most chemotherapy side effects are temporary and disappear once your treatment is over. But for some people chemotherapy can cause long term changes in the body. The changes may happen months or many years after the chemotherapy has finished. Many people feel more tired than usual for a long time after chemotherapy treatment. This is most likely to happen after a lot of treatment, or very intensive treatment. 
Almost any cancer treatment can have side effects. Some may last for a few weeks to months, but others can last the rest of your life. This is the time for you to talk to your cancer care team about any changes or problems you notice and any questions or concerns you have. If cancer does recur, your treatment will depend on the location of the cancer and what treatments you've had before. It may mean surgery, radiation therapy, hormone therapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, or some combination of these.
Follow-up. After your chemotherapy has finished, you will have regular check-ups and possibly scans or x-rays. These will probably continue for several years. If you have any problems, or notice any new symptoms in between your appointments, let your doctor know as soon as possible. You may find you gradually get back to the routine you had before cancer treatment. Some people may have on-going physical effects following cancer treatment. In this case, you may find it takes some time to adjust to a new routine. You may decide to make some positive lifestyle changes after finishing
Toenails coming off after finishing chemo. Hello all, apart from all my other ailments, my toenails have now started to come off after finishing chemo, I know that this can happen but was unexpected since i finished my chemo 9 weeks ago! Hi gilly. i finished my 6 cycles of chemo 3 years ago. approx 2 months after i finished my chemo (doxirubicin ..... ifosfamide....its been a while so the spellings will be wrong).
As with most drugs, chemotherapy drugs do have side effects. Side effects of chemotherapy are unwanted things that happen as a direct result of taking a drug. It is easy to confuse drug side effects with symptoms of cancer. Symptoms are the things that happen as a direct result of the cancer and have nothing to do with the drug. The side effects of chemotherapy can be unpleasant. But it can help to try to see the problems in relation to the benefits of the treatment. Chemotherapy does not cause side effects in everyone. It causes different reactions in different people. Remember-almost all side effects are temporary.
Almost any cancer treatment can have side effects. Some may last for a few weeks to months, but others can last the rest of your life. This is the time for you to talk to your cancer care team about any changes or problems you notice and any questions or concerns you have. For many people with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, treatment may remove or destroy the cancer. Completing treatment can be both stressful and exciting. You may be relieved to finish treatment, but find it hard not to worry about the lymphoma growing or coming back.
It is normal to be worried about the possible side effects of chemotherapy. It is important to talk about your concerns with your doctor. Remember that not all patients have side effects. In fact, many people have few or no side effects from their treatment. A Guide to Outpatient Cancer Infusion Therapy at the University of Michigan. Once your infusion is done you can go home. Your doctor will review what you can expect after treatment. It is normal to feel worried about the possible side effects from your treatment. Talk to your oncology team about your concerns. The Chemotherapy and You handbook is a good resource during the time after chemotherapy