Definition of LAO. 1. : a member of a Buddhist people living in Laos and adjacent parts of northeastern Thailand. 2. : the Thai language of the Lao people. — Lao adjective. See Lao defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Lao. n. pl. Lao or Laos (louz). 1. A member of a traditionally Buddhist people inhabiting the area of the Mekong River in Laos and Thailand. 2. The Tai language of the Lao. adj. Of or relating to the Lao or their language or culture
Lao-Tzu & Confucius. A story told by the historian Szuma Ch’ien (also known as Sima Qian, 145/35-86 BCE) relates how a young Confucius went to visit Lao-Tzu to ask him a question regarding history. 
For the book also known as Laozi, see Tao Te Ching. Laozi (also Lao-Tzu or Lao-Tze) was a philosopher and poet of ancient China. He is known as the reputed author of the Tao Te Ching and the founder of philosophical Taoism, and as a deity in religious Taoism and traditional Chinese religions. 
Laos. People’s Democratic Republic of Laos. Laos is a state in Southeast Asia, on the Indochinese Peninsula. It is a landlocked country bounded by the People’s Republic of China in the north, Vietnam in the northeast and east, Cambodia in the south, Thailand in the west, and Burma in the northwest. 
Noun. 1. Lao-a member of a Buddhist people inhabiting the area of the Mekong River in Laos and Thailand and speaking the Lao language; related to the Thais. Laotian. Lao or Laos (louz). 1. A member of a traditionally Buddhist people inhabiting the area of the Mekong River in Laos and Thailand. 2. The Tai language of the Lao.
A landlocked country in SE Asia; population 6,834,300 (est. 2009); official language, Laotian; capital, Vientiane. Part of French Indo-China, Laos became independent in 1949, but for most of the next twenty-five years was torn by civil strife between the communist Pathet Lao movement and government supporters. 
Laos. n. 1. (Placename) a republic in SE Asia: first united as the kingdom of Lan Xang (million elephants) in 1353, after being a province of the Khmer Empire for about four centuries; made part of French Indochina in 1893 and gained independence in 1949; became a republic in 1975. 
Definition of LAOTIAN. 1. : a native or inhabitant of Laos; also: lao 1. 2. : lao 2. — Laotian adjective. See Laotian defined for kids. 
noun. 1  a republic in SE Asia: first united as the kingdom of Lan Xang (million elephants) in 1353, after being a province of the Khmer Empire for about four centuries; made part of French Indochina in 1893 and gained independence in 1949; became a republic in 1975. 