Testopel is a tiny pellet that contains testosterone. The pellet is inserted into the fatty layer of tissue just beneath the skin. Once there, the pellet slowly dissolves, releasing testosterone into the body for three to four months (or sometimes as long as six months). As a result, testosterone blood levels increas
Men need a much larger dose of testosterone than women and the cost is higher. Pellets need to be inserted 2 to 4 times a year depending on how rapidly a patient metabolizes hormones. When compared to the cost of drugs to treat the individual symptoms of hormone decline, pellets are very cost effective. 
Testopel ® (testosterone pellets) is a prescription medication approved to treat low testosterone levels due to a variety of causes in men. The medication comes as a tiny pellet that is inserted just beneath the skin every three to four months. As the pellet dissolves, it releases testosterone into the body. The pellet is inserted into the fatty layer of tissue just beneath the skin. Once there, the pellet slowly dissolves, releasing testosterone into the body for three to four months (or sometimes as long as six months).
Pellets are inserted under the woman’s skin in the fatty tissue area every 3 to 4 months. They slowly and continually release hormones to the woman’s body and the ups and downs of other therapies are avoided. Plus, by avoiding the GI tract, the hormones do not go through the liver like pills do. 
From the time of insertion, it can take between 24 and 72 hours for the pellet hormones to adjust to your body and begin to take affect. According to E. Kapetanakis, W.P. Dmowski, F. Auletta and A. Scommegna, most women saw results within a few days. Talk to your physician to make sure pellet therapy is right for you. Bioidentical hormones work with your body delivering doses specifically for you. This method allows the lowest dose to be administered for optimal results while avoiding any fluctuations due to mental or physical stress.
Generally, pellets last between four to six months and will need to be re-inserted. Occasionally booster doses are given in between. Watch for side effects. The plant-derivative based therapy results in very few side effects, most of which are temporary and mild. Talk to your physician to make sure pellet therapy is right for you. Bioidentical hormones work with your body delivering doses specifically for you. This method allows the lowest dose to be administered for optimal results while avoiding any fluctuations due to mental or physical stress.
Hormones have to balance in your body. When the pellets are matching up with your own DNA there is a transition period that can take anywhere from a few days to 4 weeks. Everyone is different. Some patients get through the transition period faster than others. Pellet therapy is the only method of hormone therapy that gives sustained and consistent testosterone or estradiol levels throughout the day, for 3-4 months for females and 6-7 months for males, without any “roller coaster” effect. Other forms of therapy simply cannot deliver such steady state of hormone levels.
Pellets deliver consistent, healthy levels of hormones for 3-4 months in women and 4-5 months in men. They avoid the fluctuations, or ups and downs, of hormone levels seen with every other method of delivery. This is important for optimal health and disease prevention. There is no other method of hormone delivery that is as convenient for the patient as the implants. Implants have been used in both men and women since the late 1930′s. There is significant data that supports the use of testosterone implants in both men and women.
Pellets deliver consistent, healthy levels of hormones for 3-4 months in women and 4-5 months in men. They avoid the fluctuations, or ups and downs, of hormone levels seen with every other method of delivery. The cost for the insertion of pellets is between $230 and $500 depending on the dose of the hormone and the number of pellets needed. Men need a much larger dose of testosterone than women and the cost is higher. Pellets need to be inserted 2 to 4 times a year depending on how rapidly a patient metabolizes hormones.