Speakers of languages such as Nahuatl (the Aztec language) began to gain power, and by 1000AD (CE) it is likely that Nahuatl speakers were the dominant power. One of the last Nahuatl speaking groups to come to the area was the Mexica, who would become a powerful force in the founding of the Aztec empire. 
The term Nahuatl (nawatlahtolli) covers a number of closely related languages that form the southernmost branch of the Uto-Aztecan language family. It serves as a general name for 27 linguistic variants (Ethnologue), some mutually unintelligible, that are spoken by over 1.6 million people in Mexico today. As is the case with other indigenous languages of Mexico, most speakers of Nahuatl are bilingual in Nahuatl and Spanish. In some towns, young people are not learning Nahuatl, while in other areas, majority of children entering school do not speak Spanish.
Nahuatl is an Uto-Aztecan language spoken by about 1.5 million people in Mexico. The majority of speakers live in central Mexico, particularly in Puebla, Veracruz, Hildago, San Luis Potosi, Guerrero, Mexico (state), El Distrito Federal, Tlaxcala, Morelos and Oaxaca, and also in El Salvador. Classical Nahuatl was the language of the Aztec empire and was used as a lingua franca in much of Mesoamerica from the 7th century AD until the Spanish conquest in the 16th century. The modern dialects of Nahuatl spoken in the Valley of Mexico are closest to Classical Nahuatl.
Although there are still speakers of Nahuatl, it is probably safe to say that all but the most elderly among them are bilingual in Spanish, and in general, later Nahuatl shows influence of Spanish as well as a continuing evolution of trends that were already going on in early Nahuatl. Because a knowledge Nahuatl was so important to the early Spanish, it was an object of scholarly concern already by the mid-XVIth century. Accordingly we have a long record of it, and in some ways this makes it one of the most interesting of the indigenous American languages to study.
), known informally as Aztec, is a language or group of languages of the Uto-Aztecan language family. Varieties of Nahuatl are spoken by an estimated 1.5 million Nahua people, most of whom live in Central Mexico. All Nahuan languages are indigenous to Mesoamerica. Regardless of whether the Nahuatl is considered to label a dialect continuum or a group of separate languages the varieties so labeled form a single branch within the Uto-Aztecan family, descended from a single Proto-Nahuan language.
Nahuatl's Origins. Nahuatl náhuatl is part of The-Uto aztecan, family one of the Largest Native american linguistic. Families The-Uto, aztecan Or-Uto, nahuan family includes Many North american languages such As, Comanche, Shoshone, paiute as well As, Tarahumara, cora And huichol In. mexico
General Aztec encompasses the Nahuatl and Pipil languages. Pochutec is a scantily attested language which went extinct in the 20th century, and which Campbell and Langacker classify as being outside of general Aztec. Regardless of whether the Nahuatl is considered to label a dialect continuum or a group of separate languages the varieties so labeled form a single branch within the Uto-Aztecan family, descended from a single Proto-Nahuan language.
Definition of NAHUATL. : a group of closely related Uto-Aztecan languages that includes the speech of several peoples (as the Aztecs) of central and southern Mexico and Central America. — Na·huat·lan \nae-nä-ˈwaet\ ˈwät lən adjective. OR. noun advertisement
By Nicoletta Maestri. Nahuatl (náhuatl PRONOUNCED-nah-wah) tuhl was the language spoken by The/Aztec, mexica and it is still spoken today by thousands of, people mainly In Central. mexico Nahuatl náhuatl is part of The-Uto aztecan, family one of the Largest Native american linguistic. Families The-Uto, aztecan Or-Uto, nahuan family includes Many North american languages such As, Comanche, Shoshone, paiute as well As, Tarahumara, cora And huichol In. mexico