For example, if the employee is paid an hourly wage of $9.25 per hour and worked 30 hours in the workweek, the maximum amount the employer could legally deduct from the employee's wages would be $60.00 ($2.00 X 30 hours), so a $25.00 deduction for uniform replacement would be allowed under law.
1 The Wages Protection Act prohibits employers from deducting money from an employee's pay without the employee's written consent. 2  This means that you must get your employee's written consent to deduct the money owed, or pursue the matter as a debt.
No, an employer cannot deduct money from your pay for cash or inventory shortages or damages to the employer's equipment or property, unless you sign an express written agreement allowing the deductions AT THE TIME the deduction is made. See Section 300.730 and Section 300.820​ .
For example, if an employee who is subject to the statutory minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is paid an hourly wage of $7.25, the employer may not make any deduction from the employee's wages for the cash register.
1 when required by law (such as taxes), 2  to the benefit of the employee (such as health insurance premiums, union dues etc.​), 3  a valid wage assignment or wage deduction order in effect, made. 4  with the express written consent of the employee, given freely at the time the deduction is made.
For example, if an employee who is subject to the statutory minimum wage of $7.25 an hour is paid an hourly wage of $7.25, the employer may not make any deduction from the employee's wages for the cost of the uniform nor may the employer require the employee to purchase the uniform on his/her own.
Employees must also agree to pay deductions for benefit contributions. The exception to this, according to the Wage and Hours Law, is that an employer can make deductions from an employee's pay without consent for items that are primarily for the benefit or convenience of the employer (uniforms, for example). But these deductions cannot take the employee below minimum wage.
If the employee is paid an hourly wage of $9.25 per hour and worked 30 hours in the workweek, the maximum amount the employer could legally deduct from the employee's wages would be $60.00 ($2.00 X 30 hours), so the full $15.00 deduction for the cash register shortage would be allowed under law.