Nightcore is an artist. It is composed of two boys from Alta, Norway; Thomas S Nilsen (a.k.a. DJ TNT) and Steffen Ojala Soederholm (søderholm.a.k. A DJ). sos
The main characteristic of nightcore is its high pitch often accompanied by fast beat. Very often songs that were remixed into trance, are later on remixed one again into nightcore and so many nightcore songs have trance-like characteristics. 7. nightcore. As yet unrecognized genre of the music that originated on the Internet, more specifically YouTube. Some people claim to be the creator of it, but since the original account is no longer active (and no one even remembers what was the nickname of the person) those claims cannot be proved.
Let me explain where the term Nightcore came from. Nightcore is an artist. It is composed of two boys from Alta, Norway; Thomas S Nilsen (a.k.a. DJ TNT) and Steffen Ojala Soederholm (søderholm.a.k. A DJ). Sos the group was formed in 2002 and released five known albums of tracks with raised tempo and. pitch A: A remix is an altered version of an original song. Nightcore is raising the tempo and pitch of an original song, therefore it is remixing it. The term remixing does not imply the amount of effort made into editing a song.
http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/nightcore/. Nightcore is a style of techno/trance/dance song that tempo and pitch have been raised, inspired by an artist of the same name. Any song of other genres that have tempo and pitch raised should not be considered to be Nightcore. Nightcore (artist) is a Norwegian duo consisting of Thomas S. Nilsen (aka DJ TnT) and Steffen Ojala Soederholm (søderholm AKA SoS). Sos formed in. 2002
Nightcore is characterized by a sped-up melody (sometimes), fast rhythmic beat (usually), and ALWAYS higher than normal pitch. Almost all nightcore music are original songs nightcored (remixed into nightcore) by nightcore fans. Very popular is a belief that nightcore is a nickname of a person who remixes the songs. In reality anyone who knows how to use a computer can nightcore a song and upload it on Youtube. 7. nightcore. As yet unrecognized genre of the music that originated on the Internet, more specifically YouTube. Some people claim to be the creator of it, but since the original account is no longer active (and no one even remembers what was the nickname of the person) those claims cannot be proved.
A song that is labeled as Nightcore is a techno/trance/dance song that has been modified from an original song-it differs from that song in that its tempo and pitch has been raised. These levels are usually around 20-30%, and are raised simultaneously. A: A remix is an altered version of an original song. Nightcore is raising the tempo and pitch of an original song, therefore it is remixing it. The term remixing does not imply the amount of effort made into editing a song.
A coined term for Nightcore is that it is a raise of speed and pitch. Although this is commonly used, it is not correct, since the very definition of speed is a combination of both tempo and pitch. Therefore, Nightcore can be seen as a glorified term for speed edits of techno/trance/dance songs. A: A remix is an altered version of an original song. Nightcore is raising the tempo and pitch of an original song, therefore it is remixing it. The term remixing does not imply the amount of effort made into editing a song.
nightcore. A subgenre of trance that has been bastardized in recent year by people who think all nightcore is is a sped up or high pitch version of a song with no further work when in actual nightcore you add original music to the song to make it a nightcore song. 7. nightcore. As yet unrecognized genre of the music that originated on the Internet, more specifically YouTube. Some people claim to be the creator of it, but since the original account is no longer active (and no one even remembers what was the nickname of the person) those claims cannot be proved.
Nightcore is the glorified term to describe the style of speeding up Eurodance, Hands Up and Trance, emerged in the mid 2000s on YouTube. It is characterized by a tempo of between 160 and 180 beats per minute with high-pitched vocal. The first use of “Nightcore” for music release is The Nightcore Files Vol. 1, released by German producer Akira Sun on August 5, 2011. The reception was generally negative from the Nightcore community Nightcore Universe.
20 pages on this wiki. Nightcore is an artist. It is composed of two boys from Alta, Norway; Thomas S Nilsen (a.k.a. DJ TNT) and Steffen Ojala Soederholm (søderholm.a.k. A DJ). Sos the group was formed in 2002 and released five known albums of tracks with raised tempo and. pitch It is composed of two boys from Alta, Norway; Thomas S Nilsen (a.k.a. DJ TNT) and Steffen Ojala Soederholm (søderholm.a.k. A DJ). sos