As Florida probate lawyers, we are often asked how long probate takes in Florida. The answer depends on how complex the probate estate is, how large the estate is, how many beneficiaries there are, and whether there is any litigation regarding the estate. Simple Estates-Time For Probate is Fast. In simple estates, probate can take as little as a few weeks to as long as a few months. If the estate qualifies for summary administration, the time for probate can be a few weeks. 
A simple probate may take a few weeks depending upon each individual Court schedule. On the other hand, probate can be a lengthy process when there are complications such as in a contested matter. An experienced probate attorney will make sure that the process is completed as quickly as possible. 
The time it takes to probate an estate depends on how complicated the estate is, including whether or not the deceased left things in order. Probate Costs. The cost of probate may be set by state law or by practice and custom in your community, so it will differ from place to place. When all the costs are tallied, probate can easily cost from 3–7% of the total estate value, and more. The costs may include appraisal costs, personal representative fees, court costs, costs for a type of insurance policy known as a surety bond plus legal and accounting fees
Some states even have procedures for ‘small estates’ which can speed up the Probate process. Taking all of these factors into account, Probate can take anywhere from 3 to 6 months to a number of years. By way of simple example, the average time taken to Probate an Estate in California is 7 to 9 months, if all goes well. Of course, if there is a legal challenge to the Last Will or some other lawsuit, the probate process can be substantially delayed. There are many probates which have been ongoing for decades! 
In some states probate could take from one to three years, depending on state law, the complexity of the estate, and the filing of taxes. In others, it may take only a few months. Here is a summary of the timing for some state probate courts: 1  In California, a smooth probate can be concluded in about eight months. 2  However, due to crowded probate courts, initial hearings can be delayed for six weeks after the petition is filed. 1 The executor must notify beneficiaries of the impending probate with 60 days, and file a statement with the court within 90 days that they have been notified. 2  The inventory of claims and assets must be completed 90 days after the executor is appointed.
Probate is the legal process a person must go through to settle the estate of a deceased person who died with a will. The average probate process can be anywhere from a few months to over a year; the time frame varies widely by state. The length of time to probate a will depends on a sum of factors, like state requirements, the heirs and the amount of assets involved. An heir can still stall probate proceedings with a challenge if the will has a no contest clause; he forfeits his share of the estate if the will is found to be valid, but is not legally prevented from bring the motion forward. Errors or omissions in the probate petition may delay probate proceedings.
An executor is a person specified in the will by the deceased person to oversee the estate and carry out the final directions and wishes. If the executor is unable or unwilling to perform as such, the probate of the will may be delayed until the successor executor named in the will, if any, steps forward. An heir can still stall probate proceedings with a challenge if the will has a no contest clause; he forfeits his share of the estate if the will is found to be valid, but is not legally prevented from bring the motion forward. Errors or omissions in the probate petition may delay probate proceedings.
In California, for example, the average estate takes 7–9 months to get through probate, if all goes well, but if there is something like a will contest or some other lawsuit, all bets are off. Probate Costs. The cost of probate may be set by state law or by practice and custom in your community, so it will differ from place to place. When all the costs are tallied, probate can easily cost from 3–7% of the total estate value, and more. The costs may include appraisal costs, personal representative fees, court costs, costs for a type of insurance policy known as a surety bond plus legal and accounting fees