Typical temperatures for places in Florida during the month of December are listed below. You'll find separate tables for each region: South Florida (including the Florida Keys), Central Florida, North Florida and the Florida Panhandle.
Tallahassee, FL. Average temperatures were above normal across the state in December. Average temperatures were well above normal for December across the entire state (Table 1 and Appendix 1). Departures from normal ranged from 0.9˚F at Fort Lauderdale to 3.9˚F in Pensacola.
Tallahassee, FL. Average temperatures were above normal across the state in December. The departures for average temperatures in December 2014 for the Peninsula were above normal, though most of the reporting stations in the northern part of the state saw average temperatures well above normal.
Average rainfall in Florida in December: 42mm, 1.7in. Note: December is Florida’s driest month, with corresponding low humidity and temperatures that keep conditions pleasantly mild (except in the north of the State where it is frosty and chilly).
There were only 9 days with an average temperature that was above normal, and there were no days with a high temperature above freezing after the 6th. It was the coldest December since 1989. At Bangor, the average temperature of 18.8 degrees was 5.8 degrees below average. It was also
Even in Florida, the mercury can sometimes dip below freezing in the winter months. Fortunately for travelers looking for Florida sunshine, freezing days are rare in Jacksonville. On average, only four days in December see temperatures below 32 degrees. In January, about six days see freezing temperatures and rising temperatures in February leave only about three freezing days. You'd be extremely unlucky to visit Jacksonville on the average one day of freezing temperature in March.
Average temperature in Florida in January: 19°C, 66°F. Sea temperature in Florida in January: 22°C, 72°F. Average rainfall in Florida in January: 52mm, 2in. Note: January is regarded as the coldest month of the year in Florida, and it can be decidedly chilly in the far north of the state. The south, though, remains toasty and warm, perfect for sunbathing and sea bathing.