The gases which Jupiter is mostly made of change to liquid inside Jupiter, but the change is very gradual. Therefore the giant planets do not have strict layers, as the earth-like planets do. The liquid sections of Jupiter form by far the largest portions of the planet, and penetrate very deep into the planet. The first liquid layer inside Jupiter, immediately under the atmosphere, is the liquid hydrogen layer. Under the liquid hydrogen layer is a liquid metallic hydrogen layer. At the deepest part of Jupiter is the core, which is probably the size of planet Earth. 
Nearly 10 percent is composed of helium. A very small fraction of the atmosphere is made up of compounds such as ammonia, sulfur, methane, and water vapor. Traveling from the outermost edges of Jupiter toward its center, pressure and temperature goes up. These increases cause the gases to separate into layers. Deep down, the hydrogen changes from a gas to a liquid. It can even become metallic.
The composition of Jupiter's interior is mostly the simple molecules hydrogen, in the form of liquid. Under the cloud layers, when the pressure of the interior becomes high enough, the hydrogen of which Jupiter is made changes to liquid hydrogen, which gradually changes further to liquid metallic hydrogen. The core of Jupiter is made out of heavier, rocky and. elements
Jupiter's o … uter core is made up of metallic hydrogen.  Jupiter's mantle is made up of liquid hydrogen and helium.  Jupiter's cloud tops are just made up of the gases hydrogen and  helium.  Jupiter's atmosphere is made up of 89.8% hydrogen and 10.2%  helium with traces of methane and ammonia. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The crust is made out of gaseous hydrogen. then the layer underneath is liquid hydrogen, after is metallic hydrogen. the core is made out of rock. the light stripes on the surface are called zones and the dark ones are belts.
1 Jupiter is the first of the “gas giants”, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. 2  The gas giants are entirely composed of dense layers of gas. 3  Jupiter is made of hydrogen, helium, methane and ammonia. 4  The cloudy sphere has bright belts on it which change their shape. 
Jupiter is so large that all of the other planets in the solar system could fit inside of it. Jupiter is a large gas planet whose clouds change colors daily. This planet is made mostly of hydrogen and helium gases. Jupiter gives off two times more heat than it gets from the Sun. It shines very brightly in the night sky for nine months of the year when it is closest to Earth. 
Please click here for more information. The Clouds of Jupiter. Since Jupiter is a gas planet, it is actually all clouds made up mostly of hydrogen and helium. The clouds that we see that make up the colored bands and spots are on the very topmost layers of the giant planet. Any planet's atmosphere, even that of Earth, is like an ocean of gas. 
The crust is made out of gaseous hydrogen. then the layer underneath is liquid hydrogen, after is metallic hydrogen. the core is made out of rock. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The crust is made out of gaseous hydrogen. then the layer underneath is liquid hydrogen, after is metallic hydrogen. the core is made out of rock. the light stripes on the surface are called zones and the dark ones are belts.
The visible exterior of Jupiter consists of the clouds of its thick, gaseous atmosphere. They are estimated to be about 50 kilometers thick over a clear layer of liquid and gaseous hydrogen about 1000 kilometers deep. Most of Jupiter is hydrogen and helium, but the clouds contain methane, ammonia, water, and hydrogen sulfide (the compound ammonium hydrosulfide). They exhibit varying colors by latitude. There are three layers of clouds on Jupiter, and each one is composed of different molecules. At one level there are clouds of ammonia, at another level there are clouds made … of ammonia and sulfur, and at a third level there are clouds of water (H2O).
Composed predominantly of hydrogen and helium, the massive Jupiter is much like a tiny star. But despite the fact that it is the largest planet in the solar system, the gas giant just doesn't have the mass needed to push it into stellar status. 