Medical Definition of APHONIA. : loss of voice and of all but whispered speech. — apho·nic \-ˈfae-ˈfä, -nik-\ ˈfō. ADJECTIVE. advertisement
At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Aphasia is a condition that robs you of the ability to communicate. It can affect your ability to speak, write and understand language, both verbal and written. Aphasia typically occurs suddenly after a stroke or a head injury.
(November 2014). Dysphonia is the medical term for disorders of the voice: an impairment in the ability to produce voice sounds using the vocal organs (it is distinct from dysarthria which signifies dysfunction in the muscles needed to produce speech). Thus, dysphonia is a phonation disorder. 
aphonia. [āfō′nē·ə]. Etymology: Gk, a, phone, without voice. a condition characterized by loss of the ability to produce normal speech sounds that results from overuse of the vocal cords, organic disease, or psychologic causes, such as anxiety. Kinds of aphonia include aphonia clericorum, aphonia paralytica, aphonia paranoica and spastic aphonia. See also speech dysfunction. aphonic, aphonous, adj. Complete speechlessness due to an inability to produce normal sounds secondary to organic (e.g., laryngeal) disease or mental retardation.
Inability to speak through disease of or damage to the larynx or mouth. Compare with aphasia. Example sentences. 1  Hoarseness and aphonia are common as well as a low-grade fever. 2  Some more affected children will have hoarseness, aphonia, and inspiratory retractions that are severe enough to cause chest wall deformity.
Synonyms for aphonia. noun fear of performing onstage. 1  bashfulness star. 2  freeze star. 3  aphonia clericorum star. 4  aphonia paralytica star. 5  aphonia paranoica star. 6  buck fever star. 7  butterflies star. 8  flop sweat star. 
Psychogenic aphonia [edit]. Psychogenic aphonia is often seen in patients with underlying psychological problems. Laryngeal examination will show usually bowed vocal folds that fail to adduct to the midline during phonation. However, the vocal folds will adduct when the patient is asked to cough. 
Psychogenic aphonia: no fixation even after a lengthy period of aphonia. Kolbrunner J(1), Menet AD, Seifert E. Author information: (1)Department of Oto-Rhino-Laryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Inselspital, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. 
a·pho·ni·a. n. Loss of the voice resulting from disease, injury to the vocal cords, or various psychological causes, such as hysteria. [New Latin. , from Greek. 
Noun. 1. conversion disorder-a mental disorder characterized by the conversion of mental conflict into somatic forms (into paralysis or anesthesia having no apparent cause). conversion hysteria, conversion reaction. 