Best Answer: The oil drained into the combustion chamber when you turned the mower over. This happens when you flip over a mower. When you do anything to the underside, you need to put it on a bench and elevate just the front two wheels enough to get to what it is you are working on. 
For the ones with the plug you just take out the plug and drain. Then put plug back in and put 30w oil in threw filler plug. 2)If there is no plug you remove filler cap (did stick) turn the lawnmower upside down and drain into a pail. remove spark plug and pull on sring and turn motor over it will remove most of it and then you can put in a new spark plug and try to start it but dont ever try to start with oil in chamber will ruin motor if it is a tractor same principle just use key and not string.
Refer to your operator's manual or engine owner's manual for the type and amount of oil needed to refill. You can order the recommended oil for your walk-behind mower and other outdoor power equipment from MTD Parts. Then, fill the mower with the specified grade and amount of oil. 1 Tilt Method: Tilt the mower on its side and using the dip stick tube as a drain, empty the oil into an appropriate container. 2  If you choose this method, it's best to wait until the mower runs out of fuel.
Obviously you have now reset the correct oil level. First of all, clean any oil from the carburetter. Next, you need to wash the sparkplug with gas to clean (wash out) out the oil. Hold the sparkplug over a gas-stove to burn off the gas and use a small wire brush to clean the sparkplug. Oil probably got sucked into the carburetor through the crankcase breather. Now that you have the oil level down to normal. spray a small amount of carburetor cleaner into the air intake and run the engine until the oil clears itself out. Also clean and regap the spark plug, it's most likely carbon fouled from all the oil. It only has to run a couple minutes to foul the plug if there's oil in the combustion chamber
This is for safety purposes. 3. Pull out the dipstick and tip the mower on its side to drain the oil into a container. The simplest and cleanest oil change is by tilting your mower on its side to drain the oil from the top. If your mower comes equipped with side or bottom plugs, you can drain from there as well. For our demonstration, we will be using a Snapper SPV21 mower; it is recommended to change this machine’s oil after every 25-50 hours of use. Consult your manual for recommended time frames for your mower. If you have recently bought a lawn mower, the oil needs to be changed after the first 5-8
If not, you may have gas in the oil as well. Drain the oil into a pan for recycling by tipping the mower air filter up, and dipstick tube down. Fill with clean SAE 30 HD oil. DO NOT use 5W30, 10W30, 10W40, or any other W oil. Just SAE 30 HD from any discount store will be fine. Do NOT use SAE 30 ND, it does not have the needed detergents.
Yes, you may use car oil in your lawnmower but it is not recommended to use multiweight oil. Use 30 weight only. Reason; the chemicals in multiweight won't cool the aircooled … engine as well as 30 weight. I like Castrol 30 weight. There is no difference in oil for a lawn mower and oil for an automobile. remove spark plug and pull on sring and turn motor over it will remove most of it and then you can put in a new spark plug and try to start it but dont ever try to start with oil in chamber will ruin motor if it is a tractor same principle just use key and not string.
If you are talking about a Briggs and Stratton Engine (B&S) engine-you can use a straight 30w oil (above 40 degrees Fahrenheit). You can also use a 10w-30 motor oil be … low 40 degrees F. Now comes the fun part-you can use 10w-30 all the time if you like-just be sure to check the oil level frequently.   By using a 10w-30 all the time during the hot summer of mowing, you will consume more oil. remove spark plug and pull on sring and turn motor over it will remove most of it and then you can put in a new spark plug and try to start it but dont ever try to start with oil in chamber will ruin motor if it is a tractor same principle just use key and not string.