Axe blades, for example, were being made with either stone or copper. Aztec technology was so advanced that they even made drills, which were made of reed or bone. The Aztecs also made a variety of weapons. One weapon, the atlatl, made it easier to throw a spear. In addition, this weapon was used to aid in fishing. 
Ancient Indian Chemistry and Metallurgy. It was from the seventh century, alchemy the forerunner of chemistry was referred to in Indian literature. The applied chemistry of ancient India did succeed in producing many important alkalis, acids and metallic salts. Ancient indian Metallurgy Technology means the application of scientific knowledge for practical purpose. It can also refer to machinery and equipment developed from such knowledge. In ancient India there is a large number of evidence to suggest the prevalence of scientific and technological knowledge
During the growth of the ancient civilizations, ancient technology was the result from advances in engineering in ancient times. Perhaps the most important advance made by the Mesopotamians was the invention of writing by the Sumerians. With the invention of writing came the first recorded laws called Hammurabi's Code as well as the first major piece of literature called the Epic Tale of Gilgamesh. The Wheel.
Other types of ancient Indian weapons are the sling, falx, javelin, clubs, knives, catapults, battering rams, cannons, siege towers, which were primarily implemented during sieges. A wide range of weapons are found in India and some of them are unique to the region. Ancient Indian Weapons such as the spear, the bow and arrow, maces, swords, axes, spears, shields and others were widely used during the ancient and medieval ages in India.
Ancient India was also at the forefront of seafaring technology-a panel found at Mohenjodaro, depicts a sailing craft. Ship construction is vividly described in the Yukti Kalpa Taru, an ancient Indian text on Shipbuilding. The Yukti Kalpa Taru, compiled by Bhoja Narapati is concerned with shipbuilding. Perhaps the most important advance made by the Mesopotamians was the invention of writing by the Sumerians. With the invention of writing came the first recorded laws called Hammurabi's Code as well as the first major piece of literature called the Epic Tale of Gilgamesh. The Wheel.
Apart from the above mentioned weapons, there were numerous other forms of weapons and artillery that were used in the ancient India, most of the Ancient Indian Weapons have been developed in the modern age and are still used by the Indian Army. Ancient Indian Weapons such as the spear, the bow and arrow, maces, swords, axes, spears, shields and others were widely used during the ancient and medieval ages in India.
The history of science and technology in the Indian Subcontinent begins with prehistoric human activity at Mehrgarh, in present-day Pakistan, and continues through the Indus Valley Civilization to early states and empires. The inhabitants of the Indus valley developed a system of standardization, using weights and measures, evident by the excavations made at the Indus valley sites. This technical standardization enabled gauging devices to be effectively used in angular measurement and measurement for construction.
The decimal system too was an innovation of ancient India. Indians were the first to use the decimal system. The earliest epigraphic evidence of the use of decimal system is found in the inscriptions of Ashoka in the third century B.C. The famous mathematician Aryabhata was acquainted with it. Ancient indian Metallurgy Technology means the application of scientific knowledge for practical purpose. It can also refer to machinery and equipment developed from such knowledge. In ancient India there is a large number of evidence to suggest the prevalence of scientific and technological knowledge