Food mixtures leaving the stomach are called chyme, and this empties into the small intestine after about two to four hours in the stomach. The small intestine is where most digestion takes place. A pyloric sphincter controls the rate of flow of chyme from the stomach into the small intestine. Most digestion occurs in the upper portion of the small intestine, called the duodenum. Digestion begins in the mouth with the action of salivary amylase. The food material then progresses past the esophagus and into the stomach. A bolus (soft mass) of chewed food moves by muscular wave actions, called peristalsis, from the mouth to the pharynx, and then past the epiglottis that covers the larynx.
When food leaves the stomach, digestion is completed in the small intestine with the help of the enzymes secreted by the pancreas (lipase, amylase, protease, maltase, trypsin and chymotrypsin). 
Eventually they are delivered to cells where they can be used. Digestion takes place in the digestive tract or gastrointestinal tract, starting at the mouth and ending at the anus, including the esophagus, stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, ascending, transverse and descending colons and the rectum. Organs closely associated with the GI tract are the liver and the pancreas. 
The small intestine or small bowel is the part of the gastrointestinal tract between the stomach and the large intestine, and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place. The small intestine has three distinct regions – the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The small intestine is where most chemical digestion takes place. Many of the digestive enzymes that act in the small intestine are secreted by the pancreas and enter the small intestine via the pancreatic duct.
Digestion is the breakdown of food into smaller particles or individual nutrients. It is accomplished through six basic processes, with the help of several body fluids—particularly digestive juices that are made up of compounds such as saliva, mucus, enzymes, hydrochloric acid, bicarbonate, and bile. Digestion begins in the mouth with the action of salivary amylase. The food material then progresses past the esophagus and into the stomach. A bolus (soft mass) of chewed food moves by muscular wave actions, called peristalsis, from the mouth to the pharynx, and then past the epiglottis that covers the larynx.
The Process of Digestion. Digestion is a series of physical and chemical changes by which food taken into the body undergoes hydrolysis (addition of water) and is broken down in preparation for absorption from the digestive tract into the bloodstream. Digestion takes place in the alimentary canal. In the upper section of the tract, mechanical digestion is accomplished by the chewing and grinding of food into smaller pieces, which are then pushed along the digestive tract. 
Digestion of Proteins in the Stomach. Two of the substances secreted by the stomach, HCl (hydrochloric acid) and pepsinogen, interact to create pepsin, an enzyme that plays a very important role in protein digestion. The process that takes place when proteins are disintegrated by the enzymes is called hydrolysis. Digestion of Proteins in the Small Intestine. Trypsin and chymotrypsin are pancreatic protease enzymes secreted by the pancreas that are involved in protein and fat digestion. From the stomach, protein digestion carries on in the duodenum, which represents the first segment of the small intestine.
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. Digestion is a form of catabolism that is often divided into two processes based on how food is broken down: mechanical and chemical digestion. When the pyloric sphincter valve opens, chyme enters the duodenum where it mixes with digestive enzymes from the pancreas and bile juice from the liver and then passes through the small intestine, in which digestion continues. When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood.