This will improve soil drainage and fertility. Plant marigold seeds in the soil 1/4 inch deep and water the area deeply. The appropriate spacing for marigolds depends on the mature size of the plant. French marigolds (Tagetes patula) are smaller plants and can be spaced 6 to 9 inches apart. The larger African marigolds (Tagetes erecta) need around 18 inches of space between plants. When it's time to plant marigold seeds, amend the soil in the area with organic matter, like peat moss or compost. Do this by spreading a 1- to 2-inch layer of organic matter over the surface of the soil, then work the organic matter into the soil with a rake or garden hoe.
Marigolds are a common annual flower grown for color and their ability to repel garden pests. African and French marigold seeds germinate in three to five days at 75 to 80 degree F. Other types of marigolds take up to 10 days. 
Advertisement. In order for your marigolds to be ready for planting outdoors in the spring, you will need to start growing marigolds from seed indoors about 50 to 60 days before the last frost date. Start with a tray or pot filled with damp soilless potting mix. Sprinkle the marigold seeds over the potting mix. Typically, marigolds will take three to four days to germinate, but may take a few days longer if the location is cooler. Once the marigold seedlings appear, remove the plastic wrap and move the tray to a location where the seedlings will get at least five hours or more of light each day.
Depending on the variety, marigolds can grow 8 to 40 inches tall, and develop blooms that can range in size from 1 to 5 inches. For germination within about five to 10 days, start the seeds indoors six weeks before the last spring frost and expose them to ideal conditions. Starting the Seeds. Start marigold seeds in a seed-starting flat that's filled up until 3/4 inch from the top with sterile, moist, seed-starting mix. Sprinkle the seeds on top of the medium and sow them at a depth that equals two to four times the diameter of the seeds.
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehowgarden. The length of time it will take marigolds to flower from a seed will commonly be printed right on the packaging. Find out how long it will take marigolds to flower from seed with help from a longtime and experienced gardener in this free video clip. Expert: Kathy Martin. Bio: Kathy Martin began growing her own food nearly 40 years ago, as a teenager. Filmmaker: Alan Mack. 
Marigold seeds can germinate in light and darkness as long as they're exposed to a temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit. During the germination period, remove the plastic daily to aerate the tray and check the soil moisture. If needed, moisten the medium with a water-filled spray bottle to avoid washing away the seeds. Starting the Seeds. Start marigold seeds in a seed-starting flat that's filled up until 3/4 inch from the top with sterile, moist, seed-starting mix. Sprinkle the seeds on top of the medium and sow them at a depth that equals two to four times the diameter of
Marigolds take around 45 to 50 days to flower after you plant seeds, so seeds sown in early April should flower by May. When it's time to plant marigold seeds, amend the soil in the area with organic matter, like peat moss or compost. Do this by spreading a 1- to 2-inch layer of organic matter over the surface of the soil, then work the organic matter into the soil with a rake or garden hoe.
A Marigold seed is used in the Farming skill to grow Marigolds. When fully grown, it protects potatoes, onions, and tomatoes from disease. They may be obtained by pickpocketing Master Farmers, stealing them from Olivia 's seed stall in Draynor Village, or purchasing them from Olivia's Draynor Seed Market. 
A Marigold seed is used in the Farming skill to grow Marigolds. They can be planted in a flower patch, and requires level 2 Farming. When fully grown, it protects potatoes, onions, and tomatoes from disease. [view] • [talk]. A Marigold seed is used in the Farming skill to grow Marigolds. They can be planted in a flower patch, and requires level 2 Farming. When fully grown, it protects potatoes, onions, and tomatoes from disease. A nearby gardener will not watch over your growing marigolds.