Per-diems for other cities in Massachusetts: If you are travelling to a city in Massachusetts that does not have a specific per diem rate (including and Lowell), the standard per-diem rates of $83.00 per night for lodging and $46.00 per day for meals and incidentals apply. Learn More:
1. The Per Diem rate will be the rate for the location of the traveler at midnight on each night in overnight status. At 12:01 a.m., the rates change to the next destination. The Per Diem of Meals & Incidental Expense (M&IE) allowance MUST be reduced for ALL meals provided at a conference, training or meeting. A copy of the agenda MUST be attached to the Travel Expense voucher.
$46.00. If you are travelling to a city in Massachusetts that does not have a specific per diem rate (including and Lowell), the standard per-diem rates of $83.00 per night for lodging and $46.00 per day for meals and incidentals apply. Learn More:
Telephone: (202) 663-1121. E-mail: AllowancesO@state.gov. For U.S. Government civilian employee travel in foreign areas, the reimbursement of actual and necessary itemized subsistence expenses shall not exceed 300% of the applicable maximum foreign travel per diem allowance (rounded to the next higher dollar). 
Meal Rate: $71.00. Boston / Cambridge has a fixed per-diem rate set by the General Services Administration (GSA), which is used to reimburse overnight travel expenses within the area for Federal employees as well as employees of private companies which also use the GSA's per diem rates. The lodging per-diem rate of $179.00 is intended to cover the costs of one night's lodging at a hotel in Boston and Cambridge, based on the average daily rate in the local lodging industry. Many hotels and motels offer business travellers rooms at exactly the local per-diem rate.
There are thirteen areas in Massachusetts for which location-specific per diem rates are specified by the federal government. For travel to areas within Massachusetts that do not have specified per diem rates, the general per diem rates are used. The per diem rates shown here are effective January 2015. If you are travelling to a city in Massachusetts that does not have a specific per diem rate (including and Lowell), the standard per-diem rates of $83.00 per night for lodging and $46.00 per day for meals and incidentals apply. Learn More:
Effective January 1, 2012, the daily maximum per diem meal allowance rate for Amherst campus. employees traveling on University business will be as follows:  For travel in certain high rate cities within the United States listed in the attached, the per diem rate is $71 per day. The high rate city list is per the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) highest tier per diem rate cities.  For travel in all other cities within the United States, the per diem rate is $46 per day.  For international travel, use GSA rates available at this link: http://www.defensetravel.dod.mil/site/perdiemCalc.cfm
The per diem allowance is the amount given to a traveler to cover expenses such as lodging, meals, and entertainment in connection with the performance of service duties for a company. U.S. meal per diem rates are set every January. Foreign meal per diem rates are issued on a monthly basis. Organizations will normally pro-rate per diems for less than a full day's travel.
Actual meal expenses will be reimbursed only up to the maximum amount of the Per Diem Rate. The current per diem rate is $46.00 for employees who are traveling for at least 24 hours. The current per diem rate for top rate cities is $71.00. Please see link below for a list of top rate cities. Top Rate Cities eligible for $71.00 per diem rate. One half the per diem rate is allowed when travel status is at least 12 consecutive hours but less than 24 hours