5 An RCA ≥ 1 demonstrates that a country has revealed comparative advantage in the production of the product. An RCA index of ≤ 1 shows that a country has no revealed comparative advantage in the production of the product. The paper used export data of individual member states of SADC and the world export data for 2010. This was the latest data in which all the member states data was up to date.
A country is in a position to enjoy comparative advantage in the production of a product when the said product can be produced with a lower expenditure in comparison with other products the country produces. It is argued that even though a nation may have an absolute advantage in the production of both products. An RCA of less than 1 demonstrates that the country has no Revealed Comparative Advantage and is not specialized in the product line (Balassa, 1965; Krugell & Matthee, 2009). RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Ethiopia has 302 product lines which have RCA equal or greater than 1.
In an economic model, an agent has a comparative advantage over another in producing a particular good if he can produce that good at a lower relative opportunity cost or autarky price, i.e. at a lower relative marginal cost prior to trade. Further, they argue that comparative advantage, as stated, is a static theory – it does not account for the possibility of advantage changing through investment or economic development, and thus does not provide guidance for long-term economic development.
The theory of comparative advantage is an economic theory about the work gains from trade for individuals, firms, or nations that arise from differences in their factor endowments or technological progress. Further, they argue that comparative advantage, as stated, is a static theory – it does not account for the possibility of advantage changing through investment or economic development, and thus does not provide guidance for long-term economic development.
The gains follow from specialising in those activities which, at world prices, the country is relatively better at, even though it may not have an absolute advantage in them. Because it is relative advantage that matters, it is meaningless to say a country has a comparative advantage in nothing. It is important to note that a comparative advantage is not the same as an absolute advantage. The latter implies that one is the best at something, while the former relates more to the costs of the particular endeavour.
Product Space. The product space is a network connecting products that are likely to be co-exported and can be used to predict the evolution of a country’s export structure. The economy of Zimbabwe has an Economic Complexity Index (ECI) of -0.737 making it the 91st most complex country. Zimbabwe is the 125th largest export economy in the world and the 91st most complex economy according to the Economic Complexity Index (ECI). In 2013, Zimbabwe exported $3.41B and imported $6.52B, resulting in a negative trade balance of $3.11B. In 2013 the GDP of Zimbabwe was $13.5B and its GDP per capita was $953.
1.3 Conclusion Zimbabwe indeed has comparative advantage in a number of products hence is competitive. Despite the economic and political problems experienced by Zimbabwe between the period 2000-2008, the country has still comparative advantage and competiveness. Zimbabwe has gone through the period of prosperity when the country was considered the bread basket of. Southern Africa to a net food importer. This paper attempts to examine whether Zimbabwe was still competitive. or had a comparative advantage in international trade during the crisis period 2000-2008.
According to the principle of comparative advantage, the gains from trade follow from allowing an economy to specialise. If a country is relatively better at making wine than wool, it makes sense to put more resources into wine, and to export some of the wine to pay for imports of wool. It is important to note that a comparative advantage is not the same as an absolute advantage. The latter implies that one is the best at something, while the former relates more to the costs of the particular endeavour.
2. INTRODUCTION Namibia’s beef industry is an economic paradox. The traditional view of economic development suggests that Namibia has a comparative advantage in the production of beef and, yet, the country’s production and exportation of beef has enjoyed only modest growth since 2000. 