Furthermore, it’s beneficial for women as well. Many women hesitate to take pine pollen powder when they see words like “testosterone.” However, contrary to what some may believe, the powder does not lead to enhanced male physical characteristics such as facial hair growth, an overly-muscular tone or a deepened voice. Increases Libido. Considered an aphrodisiac, pine pollen powder contributes to a high libido. This is due to the fact that the powder contains androstenedione, testosterone and DHEA (dehydroepiandrosterone) which help foster a healthy libido. Not to worry about these substances.
Pine Pollen is a tonic medicine, meaning that it can be used over a course of time, without it having toxic effects on your body. It is also adaptogenic so it will cater to exactly what your body needs and treat any areas of distress. Thursday, July 25, 2013 12:00:13 PM America/New_York. Pollen pini. Pine trees provide us with an adaptogenic miracle every Spring season, when the male catkins on the end of the pine’s branches drop their pollen, and blanket the grounds with their yellow powder.
The effects that many people want are the increase of testosterone and androgen levels, which can take some time. Some consumers have posted their blood work publically to show the fitness community how well pine pollen does at boosting testosterone. Pine pollen works and it has increased the testosterone levels of men ages 35 and over within 1 month, however after 2 months the effects are much stronger. Many users have logged pine pollen’s results, claiming to have broken a few PR’s in the weight room. Too many. However, pine pollen actually does a good job at making someone feel better about themselves, this is the DHEA that is contained in pine pollen. Save your money on DHEA supplements and purchase pine pollen, it is the more logical approach.
Pine Pollen Dosage. To treat erectile dysfunction with pine pollen powder, a dose of three tablespoons (standard dose is one tablespoon) dissolved in 8oz of water and you should see results as soon as the next morning. If you are a man over 30 though, I’d say opt for the tincture extract. At the end of the day, pine pollen helps you get hard by both increasing how much NO you have in your system, and decreasing the number of roadblocks you have to go through to get your erection. This dual action is why it’s so effective, and why it’s been used for hundreds of years to treat ED.
Some plants don't have flowers. Plants such as mosses and ferns reproduce by spores. Cone-bearing plants, like pine or spruce trees for example, reproduce by means of pollen that is produced by a male cone and travels by wind to a female cone of the same species. The seeds then develop in the female cone. Find out more about pollinators! Sing a Pollination Song! When pollen from a plant's stamen is transferred to that same plant's stigma, it is called self-pollination. When pollen from a plant's stamen is transferred to a different plant's stigma, it is called cross-pollination. Cross-pollination produces stronger plants. The plants must b
There are many myths about pine pollen including one that suggests that kit is only useful for men because it is an androgen. This could not be more false because women also have testosterone whose levels decline over time leading to myriad problems. Humans have taken advantage of pine pollen’s medicinal properties for millions of years in many forms owing to its unique characteristics. It is a tonic which means that it can be used for a certain period of time without negative effects.
Pine pollen, arginine, and ED. Pine pollen contains natural arginine that your body will put to use to build stronger erections. Arginine is good for your sperm too, improving sperm motility, general fertility, and cranking up sperm production. The result is a better erection with more (and better) swimmers. At the end of the day, pine pollen helps you get hard by both increasing how much NO you have in your system, and decreasing the number of roadblocks you have to go through to get your erection. This dual action is why it’s so effective, and why it’s been used for hundreds of years to treat ED.
We also offer a tincture of the Pine Pollen, in two different strengths. A 1:1 extract (Pine Pollen Gold) and a 1:4 extract (Pine Pollen Silver). It would be beneficial to use the more potent strength tincture, the Gold 1:1, in the case that you are treating specific ailment. For maintenance, the Silver 1:4 extract would suffice. Thursday, July 25, 2013 12:00:13 PM America/New_York. Pollen pini. Pine trees provide us with an adaptogenic miracle every Spring season, when the male catkins on the end of the pine’s branches drop their pollen, and blanket the grounds with their yellow powder.