The word is an amalgam of the Greek prefix hypo-, meaning under, and the verb krinein, meaning to sift or decide. Thus the original meaning implied a deficiency in the ability to sift or decide. This deficiency, as it pertains to one's own beliefs and feelings, informs the word's contemporary meaning. The word hypocrisy comes from the Greek ὑπόκρισις (hypokrisis), which means play-acting, acting out, coward or dissembling.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: actor (Noun). a person who performs in a theatrical play or film. actor (Noun). one who acts; a doer. actor (Noun). one who takes part in a situation. actor (Noun). An advocate or proctor in civil courts or causes. Actor. An actor is a person who acts in a dramatic or comic production and works in film, television, theatre, or radio in that capacity. The ancient Greek word for an actor, ὑποκριτής, means literally one who interprets; in this sense, an actor is one who interprets a dramatic character
1. one who answers, an interpreter (Plato, Lucian). 2. an actor, stage-player (Aristophanes, Xenophon, Plato, Aelian, Herodian). 3. in Biblical Greek, a dissembler, pretender, hypocrite: Matthew 6:2, 5, 16; Matthew 7:5; Matthew 15:7; Matthew 16:3 Rec. 
Confidence votes 7. THESPIAN: Name for Thespis, who played an important part in the history of Greek drama. Actually, the Greek word meaning actor is hypokrites which literally translates into one who interprets.. This is where we get the words hypocrite and hypocrisy.. The word is an amalgam of the Greek prefix hypo-, meaning under, and the verb krinein, meaning to sift or decide. Thus the original meaning implied a deficiency in the ability to sift or decide. This deficiency, as it pertains to one's own beliefs and feelings, informs the word's contemporary meaning.
Definition of COTHURNUS. 1. : a high thick-soled laced boot worn by actors in Greek and Roman tragic drama —called also co*thurn, \ˈkō-ˌthərn, kō-ˈ\. 2. 
actor. (ăk′tər). n. 1. A person who behaves in the manner of a character, usually by reciting scripted dialogue, in order to entertain an audience, especially in a play, movie, or television show. 2.
The Greek word for “actor” is hypocrites, which means “answerer” or “interpreter,” but the word cannot tell us anything about tragedy’s origins, since we do not know when it came into use. There is .. much to be said for the view that hypokrites means 'answerer'. The Greek word for “actor” is hypocrites, which means “answerer” or “interpreter,” but the word cannot tell us anything about tragedy’s origins, since we do not know when it came into use. Also, Easterling says: