Antigen/antibody tests rely on the fact that there is a specific antibody for each antigen, thus, each one can be used to detect the presence of the other. For example, a known antigen may be added to a blood sample; if the corresponding antibody is present in the specimen, the two proteins will bind together. Purpose of the Antigen/Antibody Tests for Infectious Disease. 1  To aid in the diagnosis of viral, bacterial, fungal, and parasitic infections. 2  To monitor the course of an infection or autoimmune process. 3  To evaluate how protected you are against a microorganism (your immunity).
The prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test is done to: 1  Screen men for prostate cancer. 2  Since other common medical conditions, such as benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostatitis, can cause high PSA levels, a prostate biopsy may be done if your doctor is concerned about signs of prostate cancer. Guide. A prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test measures the amount of prostate-specific antigen in the blood. PSA is released into a man's blood by his prostate gland. Healthy men have low amounts of PSA in the blood. The amount of PSA in the blood normally increases as a man's prostate enlarges with age
This test looks for hepatitis B surface antigens in your blood. The test is used to find out whether you have a recent or long-standing infection from the hepatitis B virus (HBV). HBV has proteins called antigens on its surface that cause your immune system to make antibodies. It can take 30 to 150 days to develop symptoms of hepatitis B after you become infected.
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood.
1 Combination tests have been developed that detect HIV antibody and the HIV antigen called the p24 antigen. 2  Levels of p24 antigen are typically high early in the course of infection. 3  A combination test may be performed to increase the likelihood that HIV infection is detected sooner after exposure occurs. 1 Verify a positive with a second HIV antibody test that differentiates between HIV-1 and HIV-2. 2  If results between the first and second test do not agree, then the next test to perform is a HIV-1 RNA test (nucleic acid amplification test, NAAT).
Different types of antibody tests may be used for HIV screening: 1  All HIV tests used in the U.S. detect HIV-1, and some tests have been developed that can also detect HIV-2. 2  Combination tests have been developed that detect HIV antibody and the HIV antigen called the p24 antigen. 1 Verify a positive with a second HIV antibody test that differentiates between HIV-1 and HIV-2. 2  If results between the first and second test do not agree, then the next test to perform is a HIV-1 RNA test (nucleic acid amplification test, NAAT).
HIV antibody testing is used to screen for and diagnose HIV infections. Since there is no cure, early treatment of HIV infection and immune system monitoring can greatly improve long-term health and survival. Also, if a person knows his HIV status, it may help change behaviors that can put him and others at risk. 1 Verify a positive with a second HIV antibody test that differentiates between HIV-1 and HIV-2. 2  If results between the first and second test do not agree, then the next test to perform is a HIV-1 RNA test (nucleic acid amplification test, NAAT).
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) tests may be used for a variety of reasons. Some of the tests detect antibodies produced in response to HBV infection; some detect antigens produced by the virus, and others detect viral DNA. The main uses for HBV tests include: A test is available to determine the specific type (strain) of hepatitis B virus that is causing a person's infection. This is called HBV genotyping. However, this testing is currently mainly used in research settings and not for clinical purposes.
Interpretive Information. A positive result (antigen detected) is indicative of H pylori presence. A negative result (antigen not detected) indicates absence of H pylori or an antigenic level below the assay limit of detection. The test has a sensitivity and specificity of 96% for detecting H pylori infection. 