there are radio waves, microwaves, infared, visible light, ultraviolet and gamma rays. electromagnetic radiation is energy that can travel through space in the forms of waves. 
Radiation exists across a spectrum from very high-energy (high-frequency) radiation to very low-energy (low-frequency) radiation. This is sometimes referred to as the electromagnetic spectrum. Examples of high-energy radiation include x-rays and gamma rays. Microwave ovens work by using very high levels of a certain frequency of RF radiation (in the microwave spectrum) to heat foods. When microwaves are absorbed by food containing water, it causes the water molecules to vibrate. This produces heat.
Radiofrequency (RF) radiation is at the low-energy end of the electromagnetic spectrum and is a type of non-ionizing radiation. Non-ionizing radiation has enough energy to move atoms in a molecule around or cause them to vibrate, but not enough to ionize (remove charged particles such as electrons). Microwave ovens work by using very high levels of a certain frequency of RF radiation (in the microwave spectrum) to heat foods. When microwaves are absorbed by food containing water, it causes the water molecules to vibrate. This produces heat.
Radiofrequency (RF) radiation, such as microwaves and radio waves, is at the low-energy end of the electromagnetic spectrum and is a type of non-ionizing radiation. Learn what we know about RF radiation and cancer risk. Second Cancers Caused by Cancer Treatment. Some cancer treatments such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy may increase a person's risk of developing a different type of cancer later in life. Here we discuss the risk of second cancers that may be linked to past cancer treatment.
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation. The electromagnetic spectrum of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object. A discussion of the regions (or bands or types) of the electromagnetic spectrum is given below. Note that there are no precisely defined boundaries between the bands of the electromagnetic spectrum; rather they fade into each other like the bands in a rainbow (which is the sub-spectrum of visible light).
The Electromagnetic Spectrum: All Sorts of Light! There are many different types of energy that come from the Sun. All of the types of energy travel in waves with different wavelengths (the distance between wave tops). All types of energy are part of the electromagnetic spectrum. The energy is called electromagnetic because the waves have electrical and magnetic features. The spectrum usually is divided into these seven parts: Infrared radiation has wavelengths longer than visible radiation and shorter than microwave radiation. Instruments on satellites that detect plants, rock types, and characteristics of the atmosphere use infrared radiation. This is the part of the electromagnetic spectrum that humans are able to see.
The electromagnetic spectrum. The electromagnetic spectrum is a continuous range of wavelengths. The types of radiation that occur in different parts of the spectrum have different uses and dangers, which depend on their wavelength and frequency. Refraction from a prism. Visible light is just one type of electromagnetic radiation electromagnetic radiation: Energy travelling as waves in the form of changing electrical and magnetic fields. .
Hazards of electromagnetic radiation. Over-exposure to certain types of electromagnetic radiation can be harmful. The higher the frequency of the radiation, the more damage it is likely to cause to the body: 1  microwaves cause internal heating of body tissues. 2  infrared radiation is felt as heat and causes skin burns