Add to My Favorites in Sidebar. In literature, an archetype is a typical character, an action or a situation that seems to represent such universal patterns of human nature. An archetype, also known as universal symbol, may be a character, a theme, a symbol or even a setting.
Archetype Definition. In literature, an archetype is a typical character, an action or a situation that seems to represent such universal patterns of human nature. An archetype, also known as universal symbol, may be a character, a theme, a symbol or even a setting.
Definition: An archetype is a reference to a concept, a person or an object that has served as a prototype of its kind and is the original idea that has come to be used over and over again. Archetypes are literary devices that employ the use of a famous concept, person or object to convey a wealth of meaning.
! An archetype is a term used to describe universal symbols that evoke deep and sometimes unconscious responses in a reader ! In literature, characters, images, and themes that symbolically embody universal meanings and basic human experiences, regardless of when or where they live, are considered archetypes.
Archetypal characters are a major component of all genres of literature, and can also be studied in terms of film, television, and theatre. Archetypes are present in all forms of media and artistic expression, and understanding them will lead to a more developed understanding of everything you watch and read.
In literature, archetypes can exist in the form of a typical kind of character, a particular setting, a specific plot situation, or an overarching theme of the writing. These literary components act as prototypes, and they usually signify or represent a pattern.
A character that can be seen as an archetype is often referred to as a stock character.. This character regularly appears in literary works and is often assigned typical attributes commonly associated with that type of character. For example: The wicked witch in a fairy tale, the damsel in distress.