Dominant trait. Definition. noun. (genetics) An inherited trait that results from the expression of the dominant allele over the recessive allele. Supplement. The inheritance of one or two copies of the dominant alleles results in the expression of a dominant trait. Also called: 1  dominant character. 
Dominant trait is a genetics term. A dominant trait is one which will be expressed if one of the parents has the gene for that trait. A recessive trait is one that will be expressed only if both parents carry the trait. If A is the … dominant trait and a is the recessive trait, then since this cross produces heterozygous progeny, they will all show the dominant phenotype. A dominant trait is just how it sounds, it dominates over recessive traits when they are both present.
Dominance is not inherent to an allele. It is a relationship between alleles; one allele can be dominant over a second allele, recessive to a third allele, and codominant to a fourth. Also, an allele may be dominant for a particular aspect of phenotype but not for other aspects influenced by the same gene. If AA and aa individuals (homozygotes) show different forms of some trait (phenotypes), and Aa individuals (heterozygotes) show the same phenotype as AA individuals, then allele A is said to dominate or be dominant to or show dominance to allele a, and a is said to be recessive to A.
Top 10 facts about the world. A dominant trait is a genetic trait which will manifest when only one copy of the gene is present, overriding another inherited gene coding for a different version of the trait. By contrast, a recessive trait will only appear if an organism inherits a copy of the gene from both parents. In a simple example of the way in which dominant traits work, someone could have two parents who are heterozygous for brown and blue eyes. There is a 25% chance that the child will inherit the bb allele, making him or her blue-eyed.
Dominant trait. A genetic trait in which one copy of the gene is sufficient to yield an outward display of the trait; dominant genes mask the presence of recessive genes; dominant traits can be inherited from a single parent. Mentioned in: Cutis Laxa, Polydactyly and Syndactyly, Pseudoxanthoma Elasticum. an inherited characteristic that is determined by a dominant allele. Polydactyly is an example of a dominant trait; individuals with either one or two copies of the polydactyly allele have extra fingers or toes. (dom'i-nănt trāt).
The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. If AA and aa individuals (homozygotes) show different forms of some trait (phenotypes), and Aa individuals (heterozygotes) show the same phenotype as AA individuals, then allele A is said to dominate or be dominant to or show dominance to allele a, and a is said to be recessive to A.
People can also be heterozygous, with two different alleles for a particular gene. When someone is homozygous for a trait, that trait will manifest whether it is dominant or recessive, because there is no other genetic material to compete with it. In a simple example of the way in which dominant traits work, someone could have two parents who are heterozygous for brown and blue eyes. There is a 25% chance that the child will inherit the bb allele, making him or her blue-eyed.
When someone is heterozygous for a trait, the difference between dominant and recessive traits becomes more important, because the dominant trait is the one which will manifest. In a simple example of the way in which dominant traits work, someone could have two parents who are heterozygous for brown and blue eyes. There is a 25% chance that the child will inherit the bb allele, making him or her blue-eyed.
A recessive trait is a trait caused by a recessive gene, which means that someone must inherit two copies of the gene for the trait to manifest. By contrast, a dominant trait only requires one copy of the gene. The concept of dominant and recessive traits in genetics was put forward by Gregor Mendel, a 19th century scientist who is often regarded as the father of genetics, thanks to his extensive work in the field. Gregor Mendel, the father of genetics, first proposed the concept of dominant and recessive traits. The gene responsible for blue eyes is recessive. Blonde hair color is recessive, but it can be passed on in the absence of a dominant trait. Red hair is a recessive trait.