This is a transverse section of the striatum from a structural MR image. The striatum, in red, includes the caudate nucleus (top), the putamen (right), and, when including the term 'corpus' striatum, the globus pallidus (lower left). The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  Cholinergic interneurons release acetylcholine, which has a variety of important effects in the striatum. 3  There are many types of GABAergic interneurons.
The corpus striatum, a macrostructure which contains the striatum, is composed of the entire striatum and the globus pallidus. The lenticular nucleus refers to the putamen together with the globus pallidus. The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  Cholinergic interneurons release acetylcholine, which has a variety of important effects in the striatum. 3  There are many types of GABAergic interneurons.
The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  They are GABAergic and, thus, are classified as inhibitory neurons. The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  Cholinergic interneurons release acetylcholine, which has a variety of important effects in the striatum. 3  There are many types of GABAergic interneurons.
LOCAL CIRCUIT NEURONS IN THE FRONTAL CORTICO-STRIATAL SYSTEM 131 Table 1. Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cells in the striatum and cortex a 30~50% of VIP cells (Ref. 73; unpublished observation) b 30~60% of calretinin cells (Ref. 168; unpublished observation)ยง, recorded at soma; D1/D5, dopamine D1/D5 receptor.[1] Ref. Roman numerals correspond to thecortical layers. In layers II/III both pyramidal and GABAergic non-pyramidal cells contain calbindin D 28k-positive cells, but in layer V calbindin D 28k-immunoreactivty is found in some non-pyramidal cells. 2.1.
This circuit connects the frontal monitoring systems to the limbic system. Dysfunction of this circuit often results in personality change including behavioral disinhibition, emotional lability, aggressive outbursts, poor judgment, and lack of interpersonal sensitivity. These circuits are involved in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease as well as neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) , and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) . Contents.
The striatum, also known as the neostriatum or striate nucleus, is a subcortical part of the forebrain and a critical component of the reward system. It receives glutamatergic and dopaminergic inputs from different sources and serves as the primary input to the basal ganglia system. The striatum is heterogeneous in terms of its component neurons. 1  Spiny projection neurons, commonly referred to as medium spiny neurons, are the principal neurons of the striatum. 2  Cholinergic interneurons release acetylcholine, which has a variety of important effects in the striatum. 3  There are many types of GABAergic interneurons.
LOCAL CIRCUIT NEURONS IN THE FRONTAL CORTICO-STRIATAL SYSTEM 137 Figure 6. Distributions of short-axis diameters of postsynaptic dendrites contacted by FS cells No.1-4, or axonscontacted by FS cell No. 5 (chandelier cell) in the rat frontal cortex. Roman numerals correspond to thecortical layers. In layers II/III both pyramidal and GABAergic non-pyramidal cells contain calbindin D 28k-positive cells, but in layer V calbindin D 28k-immunoreactivty is found in some non-pyramidal cells. 2.1.
Frontostriatal circuits are neural pathways that connect frontal lobe regions with the basal ganglia (striatum) that mediate motor, cognitive, and behavioural functions within the brain. They receive inputs from dopaminergic, serotonergic, noradrenergic, and cholinergic cell groups that modulate information processing. These circuits are involved in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease as well as neuropsychiatric disorders including schizophrenia, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) , and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) . Contents.
The striatum is a subcortical part of the brain consisting of the caudate nucleus and the putamen. It is part of the basal ganglia. The striatum is best known for its role in the planning and modulation of movement pathways but is also involved in a variety of other cognitive processes involving executive function. A number of other brain areas and circuits are also related to reward, including the nucleus accumbens and other frontal areas. The main efferent target of the striatum is the globus pallidus, which is primarily inhibited by GABAergic synapses from the striatum. The main afferent region to the striatum is neocortex.