2. 'ethics'. Ethics are moral beliefs and rules about right and wrong. When you use ethics with this meaning, it is a plural noun. You use a plural form of a verb with it. Such action was a violation of medical ethics. Ethics is also the study of questions about what is morally right or wrong. eth·i·cal. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or dealing with ethics: an ethical treatise. 2. Being in accordance with the accepted principles of right and wrong that govern the conduct of a profession: an ethical act. See Synonyms at moral. 3. Relating to or being a drug dispensed solely on the prescription of a physician.
Tweet. : rules of behavior based on ideas about what is morally good and bad. ethics: an area of study that deals with ideas about what is good and bad behavior: a branch of philosophy dealing with what is morally right or wrong. : a belief that something is very important. Full Definition of ETHIC. 1. plural but sing or plural in constr: the discipline dealing with what is good and bad and with moral duty and obligation. 2. c: a guiding philosophy. 3
Ethics is defined as a moral philosophy or code of morals practiced by a person or group of people. An example of ethics is a the code of conduct set by a business. 1  the study of standards of conduct and moral judgment; moral philosophy. 2  a treatise on this study. —eudemonist, eudaemonist, n. metaethics a branch of philosophy concerned with the foundations of ethics and especially with the definition of ethical terms and the nature of moral discourse. moralism the practice of morality, as distinct from religion. — moralist, n. — moralistic, adj. sensationalism sensualism.
DEFINITION of 'Business Ethics'. The study of proper business policies and practices regarding potentially controversial issues, such as corporate governance, insider trading, bribery, discrimination, corporate social responsibility and fiduciary responsibilities. 
— eudemonist, eudaemonist, n. metaethics. a branch of philosophy concerned with the foundations of ethics and especially with the definition of ethical terms and the nature of moral discourse. moralism. the practice of morality, as distinct from religion. — moral
ethics-Computer Definition. The study of the effects of moral principles and standards on human conduct. Business ethics deal with ethics in business, and with the constant process of optimizing profitability in the context of what is right and what is wrong. —eudemonist, eudaemonist, n. metaethics a branch of philosophy concerned with the foundations of ethics and especially with the definition of ethical terms and the nature of moral discourse. moralism the practice of morality, as distinct from religion. — moralist, n. — moralistic, adj. sensationalism sensualism.
normative ethics an approach to ethics that works from standards of right or good action. There are three types of normative theories: virtue theories, deontological theories, and teleological theories. nursing ethics the values and ethical principles governing nursing practice, conduct, and relationships. ethics. rules or principles which govern right conduct. Each practitioner, upon entering a profession, is invested with the responsibility to adhere to the standards of ethical practice and conduct set by the profession. code of ethics. the written rules
Ethics or moral philosophy is the branch of philosophy that involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong conduct. The term ethics derives from the Ancient Greek word ἠθικός ethikos, which is derived from the word ἦθος ethos (habit, “custom”). The branch of philosophy axiology comprises the sub-branches of Ethics and aesthetics, each concerned with concepts of value. Business ethics (also corporate ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that arise in a business environment, including fields like Medical ethics.