You don't neccecarily have to go to collage to be a vet assistant. For a vet tech, yes. However, I go to transition school for vet assistant, and if you pass the course, they give you a full vocational certificate. Plus they offer job search help, so that can come in handy. 88 months ago. I was thinking about being a vet assistant once out of school and would like to know the qualifications needed to become one. also do you have to go the collage or university or can you just go and become one when you leave school,the do the people there show you what do and what the rules are.
According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, the median annual salary for veterinary assistants in 2010 was $22,040, with a range extending from $16,490 to $33,780. Research facilities usually pay higher salaries than clinical or hospital settings. Some veterinary assistants choose to go back to school to complete an associate’s degree and become veterinary technicians. Others choose to complete a bachelor’s degree with pre-veterinary requirements, allowing them to apply to veterinary school.
For those who love animals, there are few jobs more rewarding than that of veterinary assistant. The compassionate presence of these professionals eases the experience of a visit to the vet for pets and pet owners alike. Some veterinary assistants choose to go back to school to complete an associate’s degree and become veterinary technicians. Others choose to complete a bachelor’s degree with pre-veterinary requirements, allowing them to apply to veterinary school.
Becoming a certified veterinary assistant, or CVA, gives you recognition in the industry as an expert assistant and made to higher pay and shorter job hunts. Step 1. Enroll in a veterinary science training program or certified veterinary assistant program recognized by your state's veterinary medical association. 
There are not many requirements for applying for a vet assistant job. It depends on the company, but from what I’ve seen on many job listings in different states, you can be as young as 16 to work as a vet assistant. Some jobs might require applicants to be 18 years old and hold a GED or high school diploma. Assist the Vet Staff. 1  Restrain pets for the veterinarians and technicians. 2  Collect and help do routine laboratory tests like x-rays, stool, urine, and blood tests. 3  Observe, record, and report status of hospitalized/boarded animals. 4  Feed hospitalized/boarded pets.
Working as a veterinary assistant is an excellent way to enter the veterinary profession because it requires very little formal training and provides exposure to a wide variety of animal care and clerical duties. With additional training and professional experience, a veterinary assistant can become a veterinary technician--an occupation that the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) says is one of today's fastest growing professions.
Infographic by Jesse Hernandez. Veterinary assistants should have a high school diploma or GED or pass the Ability to Benefit Test. No further education is required to become a vet assistant, but veterinary assistant courses are highly recommended. Vet assistants who learn on the job may receive first-hand experience working with animals, but lack the academic foundation necessary to take proactive measures. 
Education. Most veterinary assistants have a high school diploma or GED. Some veterinary assistants choose to earn a certificate through a non-degree program, but certification is not required. Employers generally prefer to hire veterinary assistants who have an associate’s or bachelor’s degree in animal science. Some veterinary assistants choose to go back to school to complete an associate’s degree and become veterinary technicians. Others choose to complete a bachelor’s degree with pre-veterinary requirements, allowing them to apply to veterinary school.
Many mistake vet technician as vet assistant, which do require you to complete a 2 year degree and a board exam to work. That is not to say it is not a good idea to get some training before applying for a vet assistant position because it has become a popular career choice for many. Assist the Vet Staff. 1  Restrain pets for the veterinarians and technicians. 2  Collect and help do routine laboratory tests like x-rays, stool, urine, and blood tests. 3  Observe, record, and report status of hospitalized/boarded animals. 4  Feed hospitalized/boarded pets.