Protein Powder. Protein powder is a convenient way to work more protein into your diet. To find the best protein powder for you, consider your health goals, schedule and dietary needs. People use protein powders for different reasons. 
Rice protein is not a complete protein because it lacks one of the essential amino acids, isoleucine. However, it can be combined with other protein sources to provide all the essential amino acids needed in your diet. To increase protein in the diet, you could turn to meats, which are complete protein sources because they provide all the essential amino acids. The downside to meats, especially red meat, is that they can also provide significant amounts of saturated fat and cholesterol.
Whey protein is a liquid byproduct of cheese production that is sold as a dietary supplement in protein powders and shakes. Whey protein used to be discarded by cheese manufacturers as a waste product. Pouring curds and whey into a sieve. The whey is the yellow translucent liquid. When a source of protein has all 9 essential amino acids, which are amino acids your body needs to get from food, that food is said to be a complete protein. Foods like meats, dairy, eggs and rare vegetable proteins such as quinoa are complete proteins.
Find the Best Protein Powders Available! The right protein powder can be the single most important addition to your diet for developing muscle and strength. But finding a protein powder that works the way you want it to isn’t easy with all the available protein powders out there. But that’s where we can help. 
Protein powder. Jug of whey. Protein powder can be mixed with water, milk, or juice. The body's need for sufficient protein is second only to its need for water. The amino acids in whey protein -- whether found in foods or drink supplements -- are essential to muscle health. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow
Protein powder is a dietary supplement that is made from one or more of four basic sources of protein: whey, eggs, soy and rice. These concentrated sources of protein are processed into powdered form, which can be reconstituted into liquid form as a protein shake when mixed with water, fruit juice or milk. Protein powder can be mixed with water, milk, or juice. The body's need for sufficient protein is second only to its need for water. The amino acids in whey protein -- whether found in foods or drink supplements -- are essential to muscle health. View slideshow of images above.
Powders, bars and other supplements have become so ingrained in our culture that it’s hard to imagine not following up a great workout with a shake of some sort (and sometimes even mid-workout). Protein powder is, in many ways, leading the supplement charge. 
If you know that whey is one of the proteins found in milk, then it should be obvious that whey protein production starts with dairy cows. Cows are milked on the farm, and this milk is the starting source for most protein powders. The truth is, these are serious questions. You know that taking whey protein at the right times of day can make all the difference in between building an extra half-inch on your arms or adding 20 pounds to your personal best on the bench press.
Share. Protein powders can be helpful if you aren’t getting enough protein from whole food, or if you want the convenience and portability of a protein source that won’t spoil easily. 
The powder is mixed with water, milk or juice. Protein powder is generally consumed immediately before and after exercising, or in place of a meal. Some types of protein are to be taken directly before and after a workout (whey protein), while others are to be taken before going to bed (casein protein). 