The Originals. A spin-off from The Vampire Diaries and set in New Orleans, The Originals centers on the Mikaelson siblings, otherwise known as the world’s original vampires: Klaus, Elijah, and Rebekah. 
While the new Poltergeist saved money by shooting in Ontario, Canada, the original stayed in Hollywood’s backyard: The neighborhood depicted at the beginning of the film was located in Agoura Hills, a small town in Los Angeles County. While the Poltergeist exteriors were shot on location at the house, most of the film was made on the sound stages at MGM Studios in Culver City. (After all, they couldn’t exactly destroy a perfectly nice home in the suburbs.).
Click here to go back to my tips for your Twilight trip. The actual places where Twilight was filmed take place in both Oregon and Washington so you’ll have to plan your time accordingly. Unfortunately, due to time constraints, we were only able to visit locations in Oregon: 1  The Swan house (St. Helens). 2  Parking lot where Edward saves Bella (St. Helens). 
A Christmas Story House, now restored to its movie splendor, is open year round to the public for tours. Directly across the street from the house is the official A Christmas Story House Museum, which features original props, costumes and memorabilia from the film, as well as hundreds of rare behind-the-scenes photos. 
One of those streets was Orange Grove Avenue in suburban Hollywood, just north of Sunset Blvd., where two of the film's familiar houses are still to be found. Much of the action in the movie took place in the Doyle residence, where Jamie was baby-sitting Tommy. at house is located at 1530 N. Orange Grove Avenue. On the west side of the block, just north of Mission Street in Pasadena. Originally located at 707 Meredian Avenue, you'll find the house today on the east side of Meredian, just north of Mission Street, at 1000 Mission Street, next to the railroad tracks.
The Last House on the Left is a 1972 American exploitation-horror film written, edited, and directed by Wes Craven and produced by Sean S. Cunningham. The film follows two teenage girls who are taken into the woods and tortured by a gang of murderous thugs. Craven's directorial debut, the film was made on a modest budget of $87,000, and was filmed in New York City and rural Connecticut in 1971. It was released theatrically in the United States on August 30, 1972, and was a major box office success, grossing over $3 million domestically.
The most recognizable site in South Pasadena is the Myers' house. You'll remember it from the opening scene of the movie, where a young Michael Myers murders his sister after she makes love to her boyfriend. The house was empty & abandoned at the time the producers used it in the film. On the west side of the block, just north of Mission Street in Pasadena. Originally located at 707 Meredian Avenue, you'll find the house today on the east side of Meredian, just north of Mission Street, at 1000 Mission Street, next to the railroad tracks.
Storyline. A spin-off from The Vampire Diaries and set in New Orleans, The Originals centers on the Mikaelson siblings, otherwise known as the world's original vampires: Klaus (Joseph Morgan), Elijah (Daniel Gillies), and Rebekah (Claire Holt). 