You simply take the lace wig glue remover and gently apply to the solvent on the scalp. You can use a dab on applicator and wet the perimeter with the wig solvent. Let it work to break down the bond and the lace will lift out of the glue without damage or a large mess.
On can spray on the lace wig (glue) remover and wait until the bond is released before removing the lace wig from the scalp. If you submerge the lace into the wig solvent for a period of time to remove the excess glue, you must check periodically to ensure damage is not occurring to the base, lace or hair.
Each lace wig glue remover works slightly different and its effectiveness can vary based upon the adhesive or glue used. For lace wig removal it is recommended that a non-oily lace release be used to remove a daily or short-term bond or glue.
Spray or soak the lace wig with the glue-removal solvent to dissolve glue that remains in the wig after removal. Remove the glue completely before washing the wig with water and shampoo. Style and store according to the wig instructions. Shampoo and clean glue from skin.
1 Begin to slowly peel up the lace front of the wig and spray the remover or solvent under the lace. 2  After a minute or two, the lace will begin to release from the scalp. 3  Once the wig is removed, we suggest using a gentle wig shampoo and conditioner to wash the excess glue from the wig.
1 Let the lace wig remover dissolve into the lace and hair for about a minute. 2  Begin to slowly peel up the lace front of the wig and spray the remover or solvent under the lace. 3  After a minute or two, the lace will begin to release from the scalp.
Lace Wig Adhesives and tape removers will remove adhesive and tape from lace wigs, lace front wigs, hairpieces and frontals. You can remove glue, tape and any other adhesive to clean your wig throughly before applying it again.
1 We have several glue removal products and highly recommend C-22 citrus solvent remover or Lace Off wig remover. 2  Let the lace wig remover dissolve into the lace and hair for about a minute. 3  Begin to slowly peel up the lace front of the wig and spray the remover or solvent under the lace.
It’s easy to remove the wig glue by using lace wig remover or simple household items such as rubbing alcohol. We also have other forms of lace front wig glue removal products that are made for marsh long term holding wig glue types.