Hip hop is a dance style, usually danced to hip hop music, that evolved from the hip hop culture. The first dance associated with hip hop was breakdancing. While breakdancing consists primarily of moves executed close to the ground, the majority of hip hop moves are done standing up. 
Answers. Best Answer: Hip hop is evolved from advanced forms of breakdancing... which originated on the streets of New York and New Jersey, in lower class sections. Kids needed an outlet for venting frustration, and as an alternate to fighting, the breakdancing craze was born. 
The commercialization of hip-hop dance continued into the 1990s and 2000s with the production of several television shows and movies such as The Grind, Planet B-Boy, Rize, StreetDance 3D, America's Best Dance Crew, Saigon Electric, the Step Up film series, and The LXD, a web series. Classically trained dancers developed these studio styles in order to create choreography from the hip-hop dances that were performed on the street. Because of this development, hip-hop dance is practiced in both dance studios and outdoor spaces.
Hip Hop originated in the streets of the South Bronx. Hip Hop was created to stop the youth from joining gang. Moreover, it was created by Puerto Ricans and Blacks people in the South Bronx. Noticed that I say blacks because Jamaicans, Nigerians, African Americans etc.. help to build what we know today as Hip Hop. 
First of all, hip hop dance evolved out of the hip-hop culture. It refers to dance moves danced to mainly hip-hop music. Back in the 1970s, Black and Latino Americans created a wide range of styles, which include breaking, locking, and popping. Although, the older form of hip-hop dance were created back in the 1970's, they got started in two different locations, half in New York and others in California. Breaking was created in The Bronx, New York. Guess who had a big influence on the early form of breaking!
The dance industry responded to hip-hop dance by creating a commercial version of it. This studio hip-hop, sometimes called new style, is the kind of hip-hop dance seen in rap, R&B, and pop music videos and concerts. Classically trained dancers developed these studio styles in order to create choreography from the hip-hop dances that were performed on the street. Because of this development, hip-hop dance is practiced in both dance studios and outdoor spaces.
Hip-hop started in the South Bronx. Hip hop singers, and break dancing was a way to be heard without violence. It is also said that Hip hop and even graffiti was a way to speak out against putting up the South Bronx express way. Graffiti was intentionally put on the trains so that it would be seen throughout New York. People wanted to be heard.
Hip-hop social dancing (party dancing) began when hip-hop musical artists started to release songs with an accompanying dance. In 1990, rapper MC Hammer created the Hammer dance and popularized it in his music video  U Can't Touch This . Parallel with the evolution of hip-hop music, hip-hop social dancing emerged from breaking and the funk styles into different forms. Dances from the 1990s such as the Running Man, the Worm, and the Cabbage Patch entered the mainstream and became fad dances.
What distinguishes hip-hop from other forms of dance is that it is often freestyle (improvisational) in nature and hip-hop dance crews often engage in freestyle dance competitions—colloquially referred to as battles. Crews, freestyling, and battles are identifiers of this style. Classically trained dancers developed these studio styles in order to create choreography from the hip-hop dances that were performed on the street. Because of this development, hip-hop dance is practiced in both dance studios and outdoor spaces.
Examining Hip-Hop Culture. Since hip-hop emerged from the South Bronx in the 1970s, it has become an international, multi-billion-dollar phenomenon. It has grown to encompass more than just rap music—hip-hop has created a culture that incorporates ethnicity, art, politics, fashion, technology and urban life. 