Personal training is one of the fastest growing professions in America today. It not only promotes a healthy lifestyle, but can be an enjoyable career to have. If you are interested in becoming a personal trainer, take a few easy steps to get your certification. 1 They are also the largest personal training organization in the world. 2  They offer three personal training certification options: Standard at $499, premium at $599, and premium plus at $699.
The actual cost of the test to become a certified personal trainer should be no more than $300. There are some places that, if you fail the test the first time, will allow you to retake the test for $99 or more. 1 To retake the test if you fail costs $184. 2  International Fitness Professionals Association (IFPA) - $459 for the test, which includes the materials and the exam. 3  A retest costs $79. 4  National Academy of Sports Medicine (NASM) - $799, which includes the cost of the materials and the testing.
Study Programs for Every Learning Style. Take the first step in becoming an ACE Certified Personal Trainer by choosing a study program to help you prepare for the exam. Our three options feature different combinations of materials designed to help you best prepare for the exam and excel at your career. Becoming an ACE Certified Personal Trainer will give you a career advantage at thousands of facilities nationwide and the expertise you need to stand out among your peers with a certification accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies (NCCA).
Online / Home Study Courses. One of the cheapest and most convenient options if you want to become a personal trainer is to enroll in an online or home study program with a training organization like ACE. Depending on the certification the programs run from $149-$499. Not only will taking a program like this prepare you for becoming a personal trainer, it will open up a plethora of additional career options for you. The cost of a degree varies highly depending on the school and the program. The bare minimum you could expect to pay for a 4-year degree would be roughly $45,000. Cost: $45,000+. Remember, the cost of becoming a personal trainer varies greatly depending on the quality of the training and the level of certification. It’s important that you don’t just settle for the cheapest program you can find
Online Course. The most convenient way to become a personal trainer is to take an online course and then take their certification exam. These courses will teach you everything you need to know about becoming a personal trainer and will do an excellent job at preparing you for their exam. An average training program takes around 6 months to complete. Many gyms and fitness clubs are now accepting a College or University degree in a fitness related field instead of requiring you to become certified. These take from two years for a diploma to over four for a bachelors degree.
Online Program. Fitness organizations, such as the International Sports Sciences Association, offer an online personal training program for those interested in becoming a personal trainer. The program can take from four to six weeks to complete. The time frame is an estimation based on the average time taken for past enrollees. Photo Credit Chris Clinton/Digital Vision/Getty Images. A personal trainer is a professional who assists the public in areas such as nutrition, exercise, goal setting, diets, lifestyle and more. It takes time to learn and develop the necessary education and skills needed to become a certified personal trainer.
Testing Center. The most popular method for becoming a personal trainer is by taking a test at a monitored testing center. First, obtain the course material from the fitness organization and then schedule to take a test at a testing center close by. Photo Credit Chris Clinton/Digital Vision/Getty Images. A personal trainer is a professional who assists the public in areas such as nutrition, exercise, goal setting, diets, lifestyle and more. It takes time to learn and develop the necessary education and skills needed to become a certified personal trainer.
Workshop. Another fast way to become a personal trainer is to take an in-person workshop where you will be taught what you need to know to become a personal trainer. These workshops typically last three days, at the end of which you will be required to write an exam to become certified. An average training program takes around 6 months to complete. Many gyms and fitness clubs are now accepting a College or University degree in a fitness related field instead of requiring you to become certified. These take from two years for a diploma to over four for a bachelors degree.