For long-term freezing, overwrap the store plastic with freezer storage wraps or bags. This will prevent freezer burn, which appears as grayish-brown leathery spots and is caused by air reaching the surface of food. If defrosted lamb does show signs of freezer burn, it does not mean the meat is unsafe to eat. Products wrapped this way may be puffed up on top by this gas. Lamb should not be frozen in this type of packaging because water can migrate from the food to the head space (the bubble) created by the gas; the result will be dehydration and freezer burn. Also, the plastic wrap over the head space can tear if something heavy is placed on i
Lamb roasts and chops should keep up to 9 months in the freezer. Make sure the meat is tightly wrapped to prevent freezer burn. Food left out of the refrigerator is okay to eat for about 2 hours. If the temperature is under 80 degrees. The longer a food stays in the danger zone the more risk you take e … ating that food.
For the best flavor, use frozen lamb in 3 to 4 months. After thawing in the refrigerator, use previously frozen lamb roasts and chops in 3 to 5 days and ground lamb and stew meat in 1 to 2 days. Meat defrosted in the refrigerator may be refrozen before or after cooking. However, there may be a loss of quality due to the moisture loss. LAMB STORAGE. Store fresh American Lamb in the refrigerator or freezer after purchasing. Fresh lamb should be refrigerated at or below 40 degrees. Ground lamb and stew meat should be used within 2 days. Use chops and roasts in 3 to 5 days.
Frozen Lamb. There are three ways to thaw frozen lamb safely: in the refrigerator, in cold water, and in the microwave. In the Refrigerator. Once frozen lamb has thawed in the refrigerator, roasts, steaks and chops can be stored safely in the refrigerator for 3 to 5 days and ground lamb will be safe for 1 to 2 days. If you decide not to use it during this time period, you may refreeze lamb without cooking it first. In Cold Water
Take lamb home immediately and refrigerate it at 40 °F or below. Use ground lamb or stew meat within 1 to 2 days; lamb chops, roasts, and steaks within 3 to 5 days or freeze at 0 °F or below. If kept frozen continuously, it will be safe indefinitely. It is safe to freeze lamb in its original packaging or repackage it. 
By John Gregerson. Frozen lamb will keep indefinitely at a temperature of 0°F or lower. For best quality, use frozen roasts and chops within 6-9 months and ground lamb within 3-4 months. For freezing, lamb should be tightly wrapped. Products wrapped this way may be puffed up on top by this gas. Lamb should not be frozen in this type of packaging because water can migrate from the food to the head space (the bubble) created by the gas; the result will be dehydration and freezer burn. Also, the plastic wrap over the head space can tear if something heavy is placed on it
Refrigerator / Freezer. Most cuts of lamb can be safely stored in the refrigerator at temperatures between 33°F and 40°F for 2 or 3 days. They can be stored in a freezer with a temperature of 0°F or less for 6 to 9 months. Refrigerated ground lamb should be used within 1 or 2 days and can be stored in the freezer for up to 4 months. Lamb that will not be used within a few days should be stored in the freezer. If the lamb will be frozen for only 1 or 2 weeks, it can be stored in its original packaging, however if it requires long-term freezer storage, it should be rewrapped with heavy-duty protection to prevent freezer burn. Freezer Burn.
Leftover cooked lamb that is refrigerated should be used within 3 or 4 days and can be frozen for up to 3 months. Lamb should be stored in the coldest part of the refrigerator until it is ready to use. Lamb that will not be used within a few days should be stored in the freezer. If the lamb will be frozen for only 1 or 2 weeks, it can be stored in its original packaging, however if it requires long-term freezer storage, it should be rewrapped with heavy-duty protection to prevent freezer burn. Freezer Burn.