referral. 1. A Pt who has been sent–referred–for a 2 nd opinion or therapy to a specialist or subspecialist with greater expertise, as the Pt has a disease or condition that the primary or referring physician cannot, or does not wish to, treat. See Second opinion. 2
• REFERRAL (noun). The noun REFERRAL has 2 senses: 1. a recommendation to consult the (professional) person referred to. 2. the act of referring (as forwarding an applicant for employment or referring a matter to an appropriate agency). Familiarity information: REFERRAL used as a noun is rare. The act of referring (as forwarding an applicant for employment or referring a matter to an appropriate agency). Classified under: Nouns denoting acts or actions. Hypernyms (referral is a kind of...): forwarding (the act of sending on to another destination).
If you get a referral to ophthalmology, for example, you are being sent to the eye doctor. In HMOs and other managed care schemes, a referral is usually necessary to see any practitioner or specialist other than your primary care physician (PCP), if you want the service to be covered. The referral is obtained from your PCP, who may require a telephone or office consultation first. The term referral can refer both to the act of sending you to another doctor or therapist, and to the actual paper authorizing your visit.
1 An example of a referral is telling someone why a certain person or business would be a good relationship for them to consider. 2  An example of a referral is a patient who has come to see a doctor based on the recommendation of another medical professional. noun. The definition of a referral is the act of telling someone about the positive features of a person or a business, or the person who is being referred. 1  An example of a referral is telling someone why a certain person or business would be a good relationship for them to consider
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a referral is the act of telling someone about the positive features of a person or a business, or the person who is being referred. 1  An example of a referral is telling someone why a certain person or business would be a good relationship for them to consider
Referral marketing is a method of promoting products or services to new customers through referrals, usually word of mouth. Such referrals often happen spontaneously but businesses can influence this through appropriate strategies. 
The originating site is called a “referrer” because it refers traffic from one place to the next. Referral traffic is one of three statistics tracked by Google Analytics. The others are Search traffic -- visits from a search engine -- and Direct traffic to a domain. Referral traffic is Google's method of reporting visits that came to your site from sources outside of its search engine.
Referral traffic is one of three forms of traffic that you can track via Google Analytics. Ablestock.com/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. With Web traffic, a referral is like a recommendation from one website to another. Google Analytics helps you view these referrals, which then add to your understanding of how customers find your website and what they do once they get there. Referral traffic is Google's method of reporting visits that came to your site from sources outside of its search engine.
Medical Definition of REFERRAL. 1. : the process of directing or redirecting (as a medical case or a patient) to an appropriate specialist or agency for definitive treatment. 