While it has been known that opioids cause low testosterone in men, this study is the first to show a significant difference in risk between short-acting (immediate release) and long-acting opioids. Seventy-four percent of the men on long-acting opioids had low testosterone levels, compared with 34 percent of the men using short-acting opioids.
Is Low Testosterone levels a side effect of Long Term Hydrocodone use. Loading... nelie31742. Low testosterone is definitely a side effect of Hydrocodone consumption. Hydrocodone can decrease levels of testosterone level for men, but it also has adverse effect on women because it causes menstrual irregularities. Some studies have showed that up to 90% of Hydrocodone consumers had low testosterone level. 
Men taking long-acting chronic pain meds 5xs more likely to have low testosterone levels. The study is the first to show a significant difference in risk between short-acting and long-acting opioids. Seventy-four percent of the men on long-acting opioids had low testosterone levels, compared with 34 percent of the men using short-acting opioids.
Long term Percocet or oxycodone abuse can cause testosterone levels to decrease and ultimately cause impotence. Abused over a period of time Percocet will cause prostate problems, respiratory depression, low blood pressure and even death. 
Share. Print E-Mail. OAKLAND, Calif., January 31, 2013 -- Low testosterone levels occur five times more often among men who take long-acting instead of short-acting opioids for chronic pain, according to a new Kaiser Permanente study published in The Clinical Journal of Pain. Seventy-four percent of the men on long-acting opioids had low testosterone levels, compared with 34 percent of the men using short-acting opioids.
According to studies, opioids can lower testosterone levels, suppress sexual function in men, and cause erectile dysfunction. They can also contribute to low libido and difficulty with orgasm in both sexes. In addition, many pain patients take medications to treat the depression that often accompanies chronic pain. 
Low testosterone levels occur more often among men on long-acting opioids. Low testosterone levels occur five times more often among men who take long-acting instead of short-acting opioids for chronic pain, according to a new Kaiser Permanente study published in The Clinical Journal of Pain. Seventy-four percent of the men on long-acting opioids had low testosterone levels, compared with 34 percent of the men using short
[3]. Chemotherapy: Various chemotherapy drugs can damage cells that produce testosterone. In many cases the damage is permanent, although testosterone levels may bounce back for some men. Low testosterone is reportedly a problem for 40 percent to 90 percent of men who have cancer. Low T is one of the unintended consequences of taking some medications. The testosterone level of a healthy young male generally ranges from 300 to 800 nanograms per deciliter (ng/dl), with figures of less than 300 ng/dL generally considered to be low T (also known as hypogonadism).
I stayed for 4 days until my levels were normal but nobody really explored a cause of the problem. My medical history is high blood pressure, depression, low testosterone, sleep apnea, obesity and a history of chronic back pain due to 6 herniated discs. I take topical testosterone, lisinopril for BP, cymbalta for depression, hydrocodone for pain and robaxin as needed for spasms. I'm a non-smoker, non drinker and don't use recreational drugs. Please help me get an idea of what is going on.