As part of the lymphatic system, lymph vessels are complementary to the cardiovascular system. Lymph vessels are lined by endothelial cells, and have a thin layer of smooth muscles, and adventitia that bind the lymph vessels to the surrounding tissue. The efferent lymphatic vessel commences from the lymph sinuses of the medullary portion of the lymph nodes and leave the lymph nodes either to veins or greater nodes. It carries filtered lymph out of the node. Efferent lymphatic vessels are also found in the thymus and spleen.
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymph is the fluid that circulates throughout the lymphatic system. The lymph is formed when the interstitial fluid (the fluid which lies in the interstices of all body tissues) is collected through lymph capillaries. It is then transported through lymph vessels to lymph nodes before emptying ultimately into the right or the left subclavian vein, where it mixes back with blood. Since the lymph is derived from the interstitial fluid, its composition continually changes as the blood and the surrounding cells continually exchange substances with the interstitial fluid. Lymph returns proteins and excess interstitial fluid to the bloodstream.
Without it, our cardiovascular and immune systems would begin to shut down. The lymphatic system contains three parts, a network of lymphatic vessels, a fluid inside of the vessels called lymph, and l ymph nodes that cleanse the lymph while it passes through. 
Generally, lymph flows away from the tissues to lymph nodes and eventually to either the right lymphatic duct or the largest lymph vessel in the body, the thoracic duct. These vessels drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively. The efferent lymphatic vessel commences from the lymph sinuses of the medullary portion of the lymph nodes and leave the lymph nodes either to veins or greater nodes. It carries filtered lymph out of the node. Efferent lymphatic vessels are also found in the thymus and spleen.
The lymphatic system is composed of lymph (or interstitial fluid), lymph vessels, l ymph nodes, lymph organs (e.g. tonsils, adenoids, appendix, spleen,, thymus gland, and patches of tissue in the intestines called Peyer patches), and lymphoid tissue. 
Structures of the lymphatic system. The vessels and organs of the lymphatic system are extensive and found throughout the body. Lymph. Lymph is fluid which has been absorbed into the lymphatic system from the interstitial spaces. It is a clear watery substance which contains constituents similar to those in blood. Larger vessels. Larger lymphatic vessels transport efferent lymph to the lymphatic ducts. Ducts. The right lymphatic duct transports lymph collected from the right arm, the right side of the head and the thorax, to the blood circulation, via the right subclavian vein.
The name of the fluid that is contained within the lymphatic system is lymph or lymph fluid. This fluid is extremely watery and is comprised of cells that come from bone marro … w and lymph nodes. Aaron McClellan. 
Lymph vessels are devoted to propulsion of the lymph from the lymph capillaries, which are mainly concerned with absorption of interstitial fluid from the tissues. Lymph capillaries are slightly larger than their counterpart capillaries of the vascular system. The efferent lymphatic vessel commences from the lymph sinuses of the medullary portion of the lymph nodes and leave the lymph nodes either to veins or greater nodes. It carries filtered lymph out of the node. Efferent lymphatic vessels are also found in the thymus and spleen.
Our cells are located in a sea of lymph, a pale fluid. The lymphatic vessels run parallel to the blood veins in the body. The vessels of the lymph system are filled with … a fluid called lymph that is collected from the space between the cells in the body. The lymphatic system is essentially a drainage system. There are two ways in which tissue fluid can re-enter the bloodstream, namely a small percentage returns directly … to the blood system on the venous side of the capillary blood vessels and most of the tissue fluid is returned via the lymph vessels.