ACCEPTANCE OF AMERICAN EXPRESS ® TRAVELERS CHEQUES The acceptance of American Express ® Travelers Cheques is based on two principles: Authentication and Authorization .These principles give an acceptor the best possible protection against accepting a fraudulent item that might not be honored by American Express. 
A traveler's cheque is used as replacement for cash, particularly by those who are traveling. People use traveler's cheques instead of cash because traveler's cheques can be r … eplaced if lost or stolen, whereas cash would simply be gone. Traveler's cheques can be made out to anyone. A cashier's check is a check made out to a specific individual or organization for a specific amount and is usually used to make a specific purchase or make a large payment. Both cashier's checks and traveler's cheques are considered guaranteed funds because the money for them has been secured by the issuing bank in advance and placed in a holding account until the check is cashed. 25 people found this useful.
A tried and tested way of carrying foreign exchange overseas. American Express Traveler's cheques are widely accepted globally as a mode of payment in many parts of the world. It is always worthwhile taking some of your foreign exchange in travelers' cheques as it is a great backup to cash and cards. 
Definition. Check issued by a financial institution which functions as cash but is protected against loss or theft. Traveler's checks are useful when traveling, especially in case of overseas travel when not all credit and debit cards carried by a person will be accepted. A charge or commission is usually incurred when a person exchanges cash for traveler's checks, though some issuers provide them free of charge.
A travellers cheque is a check that is issued by a financial institution that can be used as a form of payment. Travellers cheques are most often used by those traveling because they are widely accepted as payment in many parts of the world, yet can be replaced if lost or stolen by the issuing financial institution. 
A traveler's cheque is a medium of exchange that can be used in place of hard currency. Traveler's cheques are often used by individuals traveling on vacation to foreign countries. Traveler's cheques are sold by banks and agencies to customers for use at a later time. Upon obtaining custody of a purchased supply of traveler's cheques, the purchaser would immediately sign each cheque.
Traveler's cheques can be denominated in one of a number of major world currencies and are preprinted, fixed-amount cheque designed to allow the person signing it to make an unconditional payment to someone else as a result of having paid the issuer for that privilege. Traveler's cheques are sold by banks and agencies to customers for use at a later time. Upon obtaining custody of a purchased supply of traveler's cheques, the purchaser would immediately sign each cheque.
Other factors that have led to a decline in traveler's cheques include the fees charged by the issuer and agent as well as the less favourable foreign exchange rate commonly used on traveler's cheques, especially compared to those on credit card transactions. Traveler's cheques are sold by banks and agencies to customers for use at a later time. Upon obtaining custody of a purchased supply of traveler's cheques, the purchaser would immediately sign each cheque.
DEFINITION of 'Traveler's Check'. A medium of exchange that can be used in place of hard currency. Travelers' checks are often used by individuals who are traveling on vacation to foreign countries. The checks were first introduced by American Express back in 1891. BREAKING DOWN 'Traveler's Check'. Travelers' checks provide a safe way to carry currency abroad. Security is provided against lost or stolen checks by the issuing party-usually a bank. Specific checks are given unique check numbers, similar to a normal check