If you are 50 years old or older, or think you may have a higher risk for colorectal cancer, talk to your doctor about getting screened. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening for colorectal cancer for all people until they turn 75 years old, and for some people when they are older than 75. If you are in this age group, ask your doctor if you should be screened. Talk with your doctor about which test is right for you. Generally, most men should have their first colon cancer screening at age 50. If there is a family history of colon cancer, or other risk factors, screenings may be recommended sooner or more frequently.
You should begin screening for colorectal cancer soon after turning 50, then continue getting screened at regular intervals. However, you may need to be tested earlier than 50 or more often than other people if—. A screening test is used to look for a disease when a person doesn’t have symptoms. (When a person has symptoms, diagnostic tests are used to find out the cause of the symptoms.). Colorectal cancer almost always develops from precancerous polyps (abnormal growths) in the colon or rectum.
The goal is to remove the polyps before they turn into cancer. It is recommended that everyone begin screening at age 50. Some patients should get screened sooner-like if you have a family member with colon cancer. A good rule of thumb is to get screened 10 years prior to their age at diagnosis. For instance, if your mom was diagnosed with colon cancer at age 55, your screening should start at age 45. It is important to differentiate routine “screening” from “diagnosis.” Screening means checking individuals who have NO symptoms.
Most people should begin colon cancer screening at 50 years of age; some doctors recommend that black people begin at 45 years of age because they are more likely to get the disease. Healthy people should have screening tests until they are at least 75 years old. How often you should have a colonoscopy depends on the results of your first test. You should have your next colonoscopy in 10 years if your first test shows: No polyps (a normal test) and you have no family history of colon cancer. Hyperplastic polyps; these polyps are usually small and rarely turn into
Since finding and removing polyps actually prevents colon cancer, regular screenings are important. Beginning at age, everyone should be screened for colon cancer, usually once every 5-10 years. People at high risk should be screened more often and should discuss a screening schedule with their doctor. The frequency of colon cancer screenings depends on your risk and the type of screening you receive. Tests for blood in the stool should be done annually, whereas virtual colonoscopies and barium dye/x-ray views only need to be done every five years. A traditional colonoscopy should be done every 10 years.
Both men and women should be screened for colon cancer, starting at age 50. In some cases screening may begin earlier, for example, if you have a family history of colorectal cancer. How often you are screened depends on a number of factors. For colonoscopies, the interim between tests is usually 10 years. The frequency of colon cancer screenings depends on your risk and the type of screening you receive. Tests for blood in the stool should be done annually, whereas virtual colonoscopies and barium dye/x-ray views only need to be done every five years. A traditional colonoscopy should be done ever
The recommended age for the general population to begin getting screened for colon cancer is 50. However, if a brother, sister or parent developed colon cancer prior to the age of 55, you should get screened at least 10 years before the age when that relative was first diagnosed with colon cancer. Talk with your doctor about which test is right for you. Generally, most men should have their first colon cancer screening at age 50. If there is a family history of colon cancer, or other risk factors, screenings may be recommended sooner or more frequently.
You should begin getting screened at age 50 if you are at average risk of developing colorectal cancer. However, some people at higher risk for colon cancer may need to be screened earlier and some may need to undergo more frequent screening. 
1 Age: Men younger than 40 almost never develop colorectal cancer. 2  Over 90% of the cases are in men over 50. 3  Family History: If people in your immediate family or near relations had colorectal cancer at a young age, you should be screened earlier. 1 Over 90% of the cases are in men over 50. 2  Family History: If people in your immediate family or near relations had colorectal cancer at a young age, you should be screened earlier. 3  Previous Colorectal Cancer: If you've had cancer removed already, you're at higher risk to develop a new one.