The Weimar Republic. People use the term Weimar Republic to refer to a period in German history between 1919 and 1933 when the government was a democratic republic governed by a constitution that was laid out in the German city of Weimar after Germany's loss in WW1. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Strengths-This is a hard one, it had a constitution (thats always good) and had a fairly stable government. Before the great depression things were looking up for the Weimar Republic. Weaknesses-The government was in general weak and never could accomplish much in economic terms. During the great depression thousands were unemployed and conditions were bad. 
In this lesson, we explore the Weimar Republic, the democratic government which governed Germany in between World War I and the rise of the Nazi party and Adolf Hitler. Lesson Summary. The Weimar Republic that ruled Germany after World War I until the rise of Nazi Germany in 1933 was faced with the enormous task of simultaneously stabilizing post-war Germany and paying debilitating reparations to its former enemies.
Above all strengths of the Weimar republic were the weaknesses, and one of those weaknesses it possessed was proportional representation. Proportional representation is instead of voting for a single leader or candidate, you vote for a party. Following World War One, the Weimar republic emerged from the German Revolution in November 1918. It had such expectations of a great democracy that could put Germany back on track. But was overshadowed by weaknesses it had such as proportional representation and Article 48.
The Weimar Republic faced many problems. Perhaps the greatest danger was 'the weakness within' - the constitution gave the President, the states and the army too much power, whilst proportional voting meant that the Reichstag was divided and weak. 
The Weimar Republic had serious weaknesses from the start. Germany lacked a strong democratic tradition, postwar Germany had several major political pares and many minor ones, … and millions of Germans blamed the Weimar government and not the leaders for the country's defeat. 
Assess the strengths and weaknesses of the Weimar Republic In 1918, after Kaiser Wilhelm II was abdicated, Germany changed into a democratic republic with a new constitution. However, after many years of struggling for survival, the Weimar Republic failed and Hitler was appointed chancellor in January 1933. Conclusion. One of the weaknesses that was about to form in the German economy was the two huge loans USA propped up the Weimar Republic in the Dawes Plan, 1924 and the Young Plan, 1929. The German economy became dependent on USA.
The Weimar Republic. After Germany lost the First World War, the Kaiser fled and a new democratic government of Germany was declared in February 1919 at the small town of Weimar. It was too dangerous to make a declaration in Berlin where there had just been a revolt by a Communist group called the Spartacists. The Weimar Republic looked like the perfect democracy, but it had two great weaknesses-proportional representation and Article 48.
Perhaps there is no better example of this than the Weimar Republic in Germany, which lasted from 1919 to 1933. Bookended by World War I and the rise of the Nazis and World War II, this lesson examines that curious time in Germany between the two most momentous wars of the previous century. Lesson Summary. The Weimar Republic that ruled Germany after World War I until the rise of Nazi Germany in 1933 was faced with the enormous task of simultaneously stabilizing post-war Germany and paying debilitating reparations to its former enemies.
The strengths and weaknesses of the Weimar Republic. The Weimar Republic. This was the first democratic German constitution. A President was elected every seven years by everyone over the age of 18. Power was concentrated in the Reichstag where 550 MPs were elected by Proportional Representation (PR).