Bacopa Monnieri is a very popular  brain tonic  in India that is used for longevity and to enhance concentration and mental clarity, as well as improve memory, learning abilities and overall mental function. Bacopa extracts also appear to have significant antioxidant activity in the brain and other effects that may help protect brain cells. Additional brain effects of Bacopa demonstrated in lab research include reduction of both anxiety and depression.
Print. Share. Bacopa monnieri, a plant commonly used in Ayurvedic medicine, has an age-old reputation for being an effective and powerful herb helpful for memory and combating stress. Bacopa monnieri, known to most as Brahmi, acts as an adaptogen; which means it helps the body adapt to new or stressful situations. The following 9 facts show the power and versatility of this therapeutic plant.
Family: Scrophulariaceae (figwort/snapdragon). Other common names: Bacopa, Bacopa Monniera, Brahmi * , Neer Brahmi, Pennell, Water Hyssop. *Note: The common name, Brahmi, should not be confused with one of Gotu Kola's common names (also called Brahmi); it is a different plant with different properties. Bacopa extracts also appear to have significant antioxidant activity in the brain and other effects that may help protect brain cells. Additional brain effects of Bacopa demonstrated in lab research include reduction of both anxiety and depression.
BACOPA Overview Information. Brahmi is a plant that has been used in traditional Indian medicine (Ayurveda). Be careful not to confuse brahmi (Bacopa monnieri) with gotu kola and other natural medicines that are also sometimes called brahmi.
Bacopa Monnieri has been used in Indian Ayurvedic medicine for centuries for everything from snakebite to headache. Typical uses of Bacopa include cardiac and nerve tonic, insanity, headaches, scorpion stings, snakebites, anemia, leprosy, liver ailments, skin conditions and memory lapses. PROPERTIES: anti-aging. 
Bacopa monnieri, a plant commonly used in Ayurvedic medicine, has an age-old reputation for being an effective and powerful herb helpful for memory and combating stress. Bacopa monnieri, known to most as Brahmi, acts as an adaptogen; which means it helps the body adapt to new or stressful situations. The following 9 facts show the power and versatility of this therapeutic plant.
Bacopa is a medicinal herb used in Ayurveda, where it is also known as Brahmi, after Brahmā, the creator God of the Hindu pantheon. Bacopa monnieri was initially described around the 6th century A.D. in texts such as the Charaka Samhita, Atharva-Veda, and Susrut Samhita as a medhya rasayana–class herb taken to sharpen intellect and attenuate mental deficits.
Biochemically, these nervous-system effects have been attributed to an enhancement of the effects of the neurotransmitters acetylcholine and, possibly, serotonin or GABA (gamma aminobutyric acid). As a potent nerve tonic, Bacopa Monnieri is used to restore, energize, nourish and strengthen the central nervous system. Bacopa extracts also appear to have significant antioxidant activity in the brain and other effects that may help protect brain cells. Additional brain effects of Bacopa demonstrated in lab research include reduction of both anxiety and depression.
Printable PDF Version. Introduction. Bacopa monniera, also referred to as Bacopa monnieri, Herpestis monniera, water hyssop, and “Brahmi,” has been used in the Ayurvedic system of medicine for centuries. Description. Bacopa monniera, a member of the Scrophulariaceae family, is a small, creeping herb with numerous branches, small oblong leaves, and light purple flowers. In India and the tropics it grows naturally in wet soil, shallow water, and marshes.