Best Answer: Wearing a beanie or cap for many hours a day for many years probably will not cause hair loss. This is an old wives’ tale that has been around for a long time. Many men wear hats to cover their balding, so the association of balding and hats has been clearly recognized for centuries. Yes it causes thinning of the hair and eventually leads to baldness. The scalp has to breath and the hat cuts of the o2 supply. Plus a hat rubs on the head and causes sweating. YUK! Source(s): Also your mothers gene cause baldness in men....KNOWN FACT! nrsebone · 10 years ago. Thumbs up. 1.
In addition to heredity, poor nutrition, and the effect of some medications, there are several causes of hair loss that relate to some medical conditions, such as an autoimmune disease (diabetes or lupus), certain infections, and hormonal problems (hyper or hypothyroidism, or over production of testosterone). Most of us shed 50 to 100 hairs every day, without even noticing. People who wear a hat or a baseball cap on a regular basis will probably notice the hair that has accumulated, giving the illusion of hair loss.
Circulation. While most experts, like the ones at AskMen.com, agree that hats aren't an express cause of thinning hair or baldness, they do concede that in some conditions, a very tight hat could potentially cut off circulation to the head and result in a deadened hair follicle. Pulling Hair. When removing and replacing a hat often, some delicate hair that is already thinning or falling out could be aggravated, and pulled out. This could potentially expedite the loss of hair that is about to fall out due to balding.
In order for a hat to cause hair loss, it would need to be tight enough to cut off circulation to the hair follicles. One of the reasons many people believe that hats cause hair loss is because of the amount of hair left inside a hat when you take it off. Whenever you see this, you might worry that your hair is quickly falling out. But we lose hair every day, as much as 80 to 100 strands daily. There are a number of reasons for hair loss: 1  Stress or illness. 2  Hormonal problems, such as hyper-or hypo-thyroidism. 3  As a side effect of some medications. 4  Fungal infections. 5  Wearing tight hairstyles such as pigtails or cornrows. 6  Overuse of chemicals found in permanents or relaxers.
“In my opinion wearing hats does not cause hair loss,” she says, but wearing tight headgear could cause other kinds of problems. If the hat is particularly tight, it could break the hair follicles, and cause bald batches (also called friction alopecia). “I don’t see how a hat could cause that, unless you’re wearing it so tightly that it’s pulling your hair.”. The other explanations commonly put forth — oxygen loss to the follicle and depriving the scalp of natural nutrition — are both unlikely as well, says Maria Miteva, a physician at the University of Miami.
There is no evidence to suggest that wearing a hat can cause hair loss, though many people share your concern. Most of us shed 50 to 100 hairs every day, without even noticing. People who wear a hat or a baseball cap on a regular basis will probably notice the hair that has accumulated, giving the illusion of hair loss.
Considerations. While hats may not be the sole perpetrator when it comes to your hair loss, they don't help it--especially if you're wearing tight hats, exercising in a hat and sweating into it, or being careless when removing or replacing your hat. Pulling Hair. When removing and replacing a hat often, some delicate hair that is already thinning or falling out could be aggravated, and pulled out. This could potentially expedite the loss of hair that is about to fall out due to balding.
What hair loss says about your health. Fortunately, in most cases, hair loss -- known as alopecia -- doesn’t indicate a medical problem-and it poses no health risk. But the NHS says, for some men, hair loss can cause great emotional distress associated with lack of self esteem and in some cases, depression. 
Share. There’s an old wives tale that says wearing hats can lead to hair loss. Maybe it’s because so many balding men use hats to cover up their hair loss or because people think that hats have a negative effect on scalp circulation. But in truth, hats do not cause or contribute to hair loss. That means that you can continue to wear your dirtiest, smelliest baseball cap on a daily basis without it affecting the amount of hair on your head. Read on more about hats, hair loss, and effective treatment option