Notice: It may take several days for your payment to be posted to your child support account. 1  Pay at a local child support office that accepts payments at the counter or at a kiosk. 2  To find out which locations accept in-office payments, contact those nearest to you by calling 866-901-3212. 1 Pay at a local child support office that accepts payments at the counter or at a kiosk. 2  To find out which locations accept in-office payments, contact those nearest to you by calling 866-901-3212. 3  Office addresses are available online at www.childsup.ca.gov/offices.
However, the purpose of child support is to ensure that a child enjoys a standard of living comparable to his parents and that the child is financially supported by both parents and this helps determine how long support must be paid. Other Situations. Aside from ending when a child reaches the age of maturity, as set by the state, child support can also be terminated in the event of the child's death, if the child goes on active duty in the armed forces, or if the child becomes emancipated or self-supporting.
In most circumstances, you must pay child support until your child reaches the age of 21. The age of majority is 18 for custody, visitation, and other purposes, but remains 21 for purposes of paying child support. Unless there’s some kind of agreement otherwise, parents have no duty to support an adult child. In our example, the court would multiply $50,000 x .17 = $8,500. That product ($8,500) is the basic child support obligation. You would be responsible for 40% of that figure ($3,400) because your income ($20,000) makes up 40% of the combined parental income ($50,000). The other parent would be on the hook to pay 60% ($5,100)
The $25 fee will be taken from the first child support collection after you have received $2,000 of child support in the year. For example: If $2,000 is collected by April 1, and a $100 payment is made April 20, the $25 annual fee will be deducted from that payment. 
Child support must be paid until the child's 18th birthday unless the child has not graduated from high school. If the child has not graduated high school then child support continues until the child graduates from high school or turns 20, whichever occurs first. Unless the custodial parent agrees otherwise, child support is typically paid by a wage assignment. This means that the child support payments are to be deducted from the wages of the parent who is obligated to pay child support.
Share on Google Plus. Child support is a court order for a certain amount of money divorced or separated parents must pay each month to help cover their children's living expenses. In California, the law sets out specific guidelines that courts must follow when determining how much child support parents must pay. In general, parents have a duty to pay child support until their children are 18 years old. There are some exceptions: 1  The duty to pay support ends when a child is legally emancipated.
Also, the Courts and the Child Support Program http://www.oregonchildsupport.gov/ have the power to order that support continue when the child is 18, 19, and 20 years old if the child is attending school according to legal standards. 
Parents are obligated to pay child support until a child reaches the age of 19 or graduates from high school, whichever comes first. Support terminates when the child turns 18 if the child is not in high school. In some circumstances, a parent may be obligated to support a disabled adult child. back to top. 
If the non-custodial parent is self-employed, the court order for child support sets out how the support will be paid. If the custodial parent receives public assistance, the child support payment goes to the State that provided the assistance. In rare cases, a judge and the parties may determine another way for the non-custodial parent to pay support. Income withholding may also be applied to unemployment benefits, Social Security benefits, disability payments, and other income the parent may receive.