If it is necessary to hold the eggs before you set them, turn them daily and keep them in a room where the temperature is around 50 o F (10 C) and the relative humidity is 70 to 80 percent. The vegetable section of your refrigerator could be used for holding the egg until it is time to place them in the incubator.
PREPARING THE EGGS FOR INCUBATION. Eggs must be turned while in the incubator, so before you put in the eggs mark them with a pencil so you can tell when they have been properly turned. An excellent method is to put an X on one side of the egg and an 0 on the opposite side.
They can go in incubator now. They can be put in incubator 2 days after set or up to 8 days. The duck egg that was layed yesterday can be but wait a day or 2 for the newer ones. I would wait a while until you have a clutch of eggs that are needed, the eggs will be fine up to 8 days. Source(s): own ducks and chickens.
I have been hatching eggs outta the incubator for about 4 to 5 yrs. now. What I do is put them in an egg carton while Im collecting them. They need to be sat with the pointed end down. Do not hold eggs any more than 7 days or they will go bad. I just keep mine in the kitchen and write DO NOT EAT!! So Id say room temp.
Turn the eggs to a new position once daily until placing in the incubator. Hatchability holds well up to seven days, but declines rapidly after that. Try not to store eggs more than 7 days before incubating. A 14 day storage reduces hatch to near 50% and after 3 weeks of storage, hatchability drops to almost zero.
If your hatching eggs are not cared for in the correct way, you will suffer from a reduced hatchability. We have put together a list of points to help you store your hatching eggs in the correct way before incubation.
dont put them in the incubator unless you are planning on hatching them. They can last up to 12 to 14 days without being in the incubator but any more than that and the embryo will die. the duck eggs will be fine if they are under 12 days old. good luck! hope this helped.