[See below for definitions of participial, infinitive, and prepositional phrases.] Usually, a noun phrase will be all of a piece, all the words that compose it being contiguous with the noun itself. It is possible, however, for a noun phrase to be broken, to become what we call discontinuous. A vocative  an addressed person's name or substitute name  is often a single word but sometimes takes the form of a noun phrase. A vocative is always treated as a parenthetical element and is thus set off from the rest of the sentence with a comma or a pair of commas (if it appears within the flow of a sentence).
a new birdcage.. Three causative verbs are exceptions to the pattern described above. Instead of being followed by a noun/pronoun and an infinitive, the causative verbs have, make and let are followed by a noun/pronoun and the. of the verb (which is actually an infinitive with the to left off). 1  Professor Villa. 2  four short novels in one week. 3  She also. 4  five plays in one week. 
Occasionally the phrase four-letter word is humorously used to describe common words composed of four letters. Typical examples include the word work, implying that work can be unpleasant, or the game of golf, jokingly referred to as a four-letter word when a player's pastime becomes an exercise in frustration. Writing prose, anything goes. Common four-letter words (in this sense) that are widely considered vulgar or offensive to a notable degree include: cunt, fuck (and regional variants such as feck, fick and foak), jism (or gism), jizz, piss, twat and tits.
Also found in: Dictionary/thesaurus, Medical, Legal, Financial, Encyclopedia. if you have your work cut out, you have something very difficult to do We're training a completely new team, so we've got our work cut out for us. (often in future tenses) Have you seen the state of the garden? She'll have her work cut out to get it looking nice in time for the summer. have your work cut out (for you)
When the participle of an absolute phrase is a form of to be, such as being or having been, the participle is often left out but understood. 1  The season [being] over, they were mobbed by fans in Times Square. [ 2 Having been] Stars all their adult lives, they seemed used to the attention. A vocative  an addressed person's name or substitute name  is often a single word but sometimes takes the form of a noun phrase. A vocative is always treated as a parenthetical element and is thus set off from the rest of the sentence with a comma or a pair of commas (if it appears within the flow of a sentence).
These phrases function as units and can do anything that a noun can do. Notice that other phrases, especially prepositional phrases, are frequently part of the gerund phrase. 1  Cramming for tests is not a good study strategy. A vocative  an addressed person's name or substitute name  is often a single word but sometimes takes the form of a noun phrase. A vocative is always treated as a parenthetical element and is thus set off from the rest of the sentence with a comma or a pair of commas (if it appears within the flow of a sentence).
A phrase is a group of related words that does not include a subject and verb. (If the group of related words does contain a subject and verb, it is considered a clause .) There are several different kinds of phrases. A vocative  an addressed person's name or substitute name  is often a single word but sometimes takes the form of a noun phrase. A vocative is always treated as a parenthetical element and is thus set off from the rest of the sentence with a comma or a pair of commas (if it appears within the flow of a sentence).
To make an opening for (someone or something) in: worked a few field trips into the semester's calendar. 3. To place or insert in by repeated or continuous effort: worked the pick into the lock. work off. To get rid of by work or effort: work off extra pounds; work off a debt.
Synonyms: work, labor, toil 1, drudgery, travail. These nouns refer to physical or mental effort expended to produce or accomplish something. Work is the most widely applicable: hard work in the fields; did some work around the house on weekends; a first draft that still needs work. 3. To place or insert in by repeated or continuous effort: worked the pick into the lock. work off. To get rid of by work or effort: work off extra pounds; work off a debt.
Plagiarism is the wrongful appropriation and stealing and publication of another author 's language, thoughts, ideas, or expressions and the representation of them as one's own original work. The idea remains problematic with unclear definitions and unclear rules. 1 Stanford sees plagiarism as the use, without giving reasonable and appropriate credit to or acknowledging the author or source, of another person's original work, whether such work is made up of code, formulas, ideas, language, research, strategies, writing or other form..