Adults (18 years of age and older). Adults, under 50 years of age, with unknown susceptibility status should be serologically tested for varicella antibodies because most will be immune. Healthy, varicella-susceptible adults should receive two doses of univalent varicella vaccine administered at least 6 weeks apart. Refer to Recommendations for use.
The second dose could be given earlier, if necessary, as long as there is a 3-month interval between doses. All children age 13 years and older as well as adults without evidence of immunity should also have documentation of 2 doses of varicella vaccine, separated by a minimum interval of 4 weeks. If you cannot verify a healthcare employee's history of chickenpox, the employee should receive 2 doses of varicella vaccine at least 4 weeks apart. For details, refer to pages 16 and 26 of the CDC recommendations Prevention of Varicella at www.cdc.gov/mmwr/pdf/rr/rr5604.pdf.
Children who have never had chickenpox should get two doses of chickenpox vaccine, with the 1st dose administered at 12 – 15 months of age and the 2 nd at 4-6 years of age. Two doses, administered 4-8 weeks apart, are also recommended for people 13 years of age or older. ♦ Non-immune persons who have been exposed to chickenpox should receive varicella vaccine to prevent or diminish the severity of illness. The vaccine is most effective if given within 3 days (72 hours) to 5 days (120 hours) of the exposure.
1 Children ages 12 months through 12 years can receive 2 doses of the vaccine at the recommended interval of at least 3 months apart, or 6 weeks apart if rapid, complete protection is required. 2  Healthy adolescents and young adults aged 13 and older should receive two doses of the vaccine 4 to 6 weeks apart. Varicella vaccine prevents chickenpox. The vaccine is recommended for all healthy children, teens, and adults who have not had chickenpox. 1  Babies can receive the vaccine along with some other standard shots (immunizations) that are given at 12 to 15 months of age.
People 60 years of age or older should get shingles vaccine. They should get the vaccine whether or not they recall having had chickenpox, which is caused by the same virus as shingles. Studies show that more than 99% of Americans aged 40 and older have had chickenpox, even if they don't remember getting the disease. There is no maximum age for getting shingles vaccine. CDC recommends that people 60 years old and older get shingles vaccine to prevent shingles and PHN. Shingles vaccine has been used since 2006. Zostavax® is the only shingles vaccine currently approved for use in the United States. This vaccine reduces the risk of developing shingles by 51% and PHN by 67%.
At a Glance. CDC recommends two doses of chickenpox vaccine for children, adolescents, and adults. Children should receive two doses of the vaccine—the first dose at 12 through 15 months old and a second dose at 4 through 6 years old. 1  Who needs the chickenpox vaccine.
 Adults 60 years and older should receive a single dose of zoster vaccine  Need for booster dose or doses not known at this time  A history of herpes zoster should not influence the decision to vaccinate MMWR 2008;57(RR-5). Varicella Vaccine Recommendations Older Children and Adults  Two doses are recommended for all persons 4 years of age and older who do not have evidence of varicella immunity  Second dose recommended for persons of any age who have only received one dose.
However, if an adult age 60 years or older is tested for varicella immunity for whatever reason, and the test is negative, he/she should be given 2 doses of varicella vaccine at least 4 weeks apart, not zoster vaccine. See www.cdc.gov/vaccines/vpd-vac/shingles/hcp-vaccination.htm for more information. No. All persons age 60 years or older-whether they have a history of chickenpox or shingles or not-should be given zoster vaccine unless they have a medical contraindication to vaccination (described below). It is also not necessary to test for varicella antibody prior to giving the vaccine.