Uses. Sarsaparilla root is globally recognized for medicinal properties. Since it was first introduced to the Western world, sarsaparilla has been used to treat gout, gonorrhea, open wounds, arthritis, cough, fever, hypertension, pain, a lack of sexual desire, indigestion, and even certain forms of cancer. More serious conditions have also been treated with sarsaparilla root. In the Amazon, some tribes used it as a treatment for leprosy by ingesting it as well as using it externally. Sarsaparilla first came to Europe in the 1400s as a medicine discovered in South America and brought back via boat.
In manufacturing, sarsaparilla is used as a flavoring agent in foods, beverages, and pharmaceuticals. In the American “Old West,” sarsaparilla was the most popular drink of the cowboys. Don’t confuse sarsaparilla with Indian or false sarsaparilla (Hemidesmus indicus, Family: Apocyanaceae). Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of sarsaparilla during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Asthma: Exposure to sarsaparilla root dust can cause runny nose and the symptoms of asthma. Kidney disease: Sarsaparilla might make kidney disease worse.
Sarsaparilla root is the most common part of the Sarsaparilla vine that is used for medicinal purposes. The Sarsaparilla root is used as a blood purifier and an overall health tonic to boost energy and stamina. It has also antibacterial and anti inflammatory properties as well. History and Origin. The name Sarsaparilla came from the Spanish words sarza meaning bramble and parilla which means wine. Sarsaparilla root has been used as a muscle builder by some body builders since it is a better alternative to steroids that have many harmful side effects. Side Effects. Taking Sarsaparilla root extracts as a tea or in supplement form have known to have no side effects whatsoever.
Sarsaparilla (Smilax regelli) is a perennial plant that is native to the rainforests of South America, Jamaica and the Caribbean. It is also found in the forests of Asia and Australia. This very long vine can reach up to 50 feet in length and has a fragrant root often referred to as the Sarsaparilla root. Sarsaparilla root has been used as a muscle builder by some body builders since it is a better alternative to steroids that have many harmful side effects. Side Effects. Taking Sarsaparilla root extracts as a tea or in supplement form have known to have no side effects whatsoever.
Sarsaparilla is a soft drink, originally made from the Smilax regelii plant, but now sometimes made with artificial flavours. Sarsaparilla was popular in the United States in the 19th century. According to advertisements for patent medicines of the period, it was considered to be a remedy for skin and blood problems. 
Sarsaparilla is a plant of the Smilax species. Sarsaparilla is a woody vine that produces small flowers and either red, black, or blue berry like fruit. Sarsaparilla is native to South America and the Caribbean where the Jamaican or Honduran Smilax ornata and Mexican Smilax aristolochiifolia originate. Sarsaparilla fruit was once used to make popular sarsaparilla soft drinks, which has a taste similar to root beer. Sarsaparilla has also been used by herbalists in traditional medicine for hundreds of years because of its medicinal properties
Sarsaparilla seems safe for most people when used as a medicine. It might cause stomach irritation, especially when used in larger amounts. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of sarsaparilla during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Asthma: Exposure to sarsaparilla root dust can cause runny nose and the symptoms of asthma. Kidney disease: Sarsaparilla might make kidney disease worse.
SARSAPARILLA Overview Information. Sarsaparilla is a plant. The root is used to make medicine. Sarsaparilla is used for treating psoriasis and other skin diseases, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and kidney disease; for increasing urination to reduce fluid retention; and for increasing sweating. Sarsaparilla is also used along with conventional drugs for treating leprosy and for syphilis. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: Not enough is known about the use of sarsaparilla during pregnancy and breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use. Asthma: Exposure to sarsaparilla root dust can cause runny nose and the symptoms of asthma. Kidney disease: Sarsaparilla might make kidney disease worse.
Using sarsaparilla tea on the skin may help to treat shingles. Sarsaparilla, also called Jamaican sarsaparilla, Indian sarsaparilla, sarsa and salsaparilha, is a plant that has been used as a medicinal herb around the globe for hundreds of years. It can provide an array of health benefits, including possible treatment for skin conditions, as well as an internal cleanser. 
The spicy Sarsaparilla root is what gave old fashioned root beer its bite and is the part used medicinally by herbalists for the prevention of gout, arthritis, inflammations of the joints, and is particularly useful for scaling skin conditions, like psoriasis, especially when accompanied by irritation. 