Perhaps the most obvious reason to purchase small business insurance is to protect your tangible investment—from your merchandise to the tools you use to make your business work. For example, if someone is injured on the premises of your business and files a lawsuit against you, this type of coverage may (depending on the situation) help cover some of the related costs. Product liability coverage: If your company manufactures or sells a product, this type of coverage may come in handy. It protects you in case your product is defective and causes injury or damage
The SHOP Marketplace allows you to offer high-quality health and dental coverage that meets the needs of your business and your employees. SHOP offers flexibility, choice, and the convenience of online application and account management. Note: If you're self-employed with no employees, you can get health coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace for individuals, but not through SHOP. The Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Marketplace helps small businesses provide health coverage to thei
If you're a barber on the prowl for small business insurance, you probably are an independent contractor renting a booth from a principal, or you are the principal, the barber shop owner who is responsible for protecting your space, your business assets, and your employees. General Liability Insurance is an important coverage for all small-business owners, including barbers-whether you own your shop or rent a booth. This type of coverage protects you and your employees from third-party claims, the common ones that come from folks outside of your business…
For more guidance on discounts, check out How to Save Money on Car Insurance and Top 10 Ways To Lower Your Car Insurance Bill.. Step 8: Assess the Insurance Company's Track Record. You now have most of the price and coverage information that you need to make a decision. If you go to an online site to get a quote for an insurance rate, you can type in your information and begin to build a list of companies for comparative quotes. Keep in mind that not all insurance companies participate in these one-stop-shopping sites, however.
4. Buy your home and auto policies from the same insurer. Some companies that sell homeowners, auto and liability coverage will take 5 to 15 percent off your premium if you buy two or more policies from them. But make certain this combined price is lower than buying the different coverages from different companies. 5. The price you pay for your homeowners insurance can vary by hundreds of dollars, depending on the insurance company you buy your policy from. Here are some things to consider when buying homeowners insurance.
Overview of the SHOP Marketplace. Note: If you're self-employed with no employees, you can get health coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace for individuals, but not through SHOP. The Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) Marketplace helps small businesses provide health coverage to their employees.
12. When you re buying a home, consider the cost of homeowners insurance. You may pay less for insurance if you buy a house close to a fire hydrant or in a community that has a professional rather than a volunteer fire department. The price you pay for your homeowners insurance can vary by hundreds of dollars, depending on the insurance company you buy your policy from. Here are some things to consider when buying
Some states also require you to purchase car insurance that will cover your medical expenses, pain and suffering losses and, in some states, car damage, in the event that the other motorist is at fault and is either uninsured or underinsured. 