Some other countries link their currency to U.S. dollar at a fixed exchange rate. The local currencies of Bermuda and the Bahamas can be freely exchanged at a 1:1 ratio for USD. Argentina used a fixed 1:1 exchange rate between the Argentine peso and the U.S. dollar from 1991 until 2002. The U.S. Dollar Index (Ticker: USDX) is the creation of the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), renamed in September 2007 to ICE Futures US. It was established in 1973 for tracking the value of the USD against a basket of currencies, which, at that time, represented the largest trading partners of the United States
The U.S. dollar is an important international reserve currency along with the euro. The euro inherited this status from the German mark, and since its introduction, has increased its standing considerably, mostly at the expense of the dollar. The U.S. Dollar Index (Ticker: USDX) is the creation of the New York Board of Trade (NYBOT), renamed in September 2007 to ICE Futures US. It was established in 1973 for tracking the value of the USD against a basket of currencies, which, at that time, represented the largest trading partners of the United States
8 hours ago. SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Netflix is raising the price of its Internet video service by $1 in the U.S. and several other countries to help cover its escalating costs for shows such as House of Cards and other original programming. BRUSSELS (AP) — The world's top brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev is continuing its courtship of SABMiller shareholders for its 68 billion pounds ($104 billion) takeover bid despite a triple rejection by the board of the No. 2 beer company.
That gives the index a much greater weight towards the Euro, meaning even small movements in the European currency tend to have a broad impact on the dollar. Not surprisingly, it is the Euro's big move higher that is responsible for the bulk of the greenback's decline. That's why it's important to keep an eye on the dollar-Euro relationship, since it seems to hold the key to everything else. When the Dollar Index turns and moves higher, everything else will likely turn with it.
Bloomberg. Connecting decision makers to a dynamic network of information, people and ideas, Bloomberg quickly and accurately delivers business and financial information, news and insight around the world.
7 hours ago. SAN FRANCISCO (AP) — Netflix is raising the price of its Internet video service by $1 in the U.S. and several other countries to help cover its escalating costs for shows such as House of Cards and other original programming. BRUSSELS (AP) — The world's top brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev is continuing its courtship of SABMiller shareholders for its 68 billion pounds ($104 billion) takeover bid despite a triple rejection by the board of the No. 2 beer company.
However, a higher Euro is the last thing the Union needs right now due to their dependency on exports. Even still, the Euro has risen about 15% against the dollar since the March lows. . . and is not far from its record high of $1.60 reached in July 2008. That's why it's important to keep an eye on the dollar-Euro relationship, since it seems to hold the key to everything else. When the Dollar Index turns and moves higher, everything else will likely turn with it.
1967 - 2015. Daily. The United States Dollar Index or DXY measures the performance of the dollar against a basket of other currencies including EUR, JPY, GBP, CAD, CHF and SEK. This page provides-United States Dollar-actual values, historical data, forecast, chart, statistics, economic calendar and news. 
Following this report, the US dollar index fell more than 1% to as low as $93.51, its weakest level in four months. The euro, meanwhile, strengthened to as much as $1.137 against the dollar. And after opening the session higher, US stocks were losing steam in afternoon trading, with the Dow and S&P 500 turning negative and the Nasdaq up just 3 points. Here's a chart showing the dollar's drop after the retail sales report: FinViz