Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (or haemolytic-uraemic syndrome), abbreviated HUS, is a disease characterized by hemolytic anemia (anemia caused by destruction of red blood cells), acute kidney failure (uremia), and a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia). It predominantly, but not exclusively, affects children. 
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a complex condition in which a buildup of broken-down blood cells leads to serious kidney damage. Infections of the gastrointestinal tract (your stomach and intestines) are the most common cause of this disorder. 
Neurologic system. Symptoms of uremic encephalopathy include fatigue, muscle weakness, malaise, headache, restless legs, asterixis, polyneuritis, mental status changes, muscle cramps, seizures, stupor, and coma. Amyloid deposits may result in medial nerve neuropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome, or other nerve entrapment syndromes
Classical signs of uremia are: progressive weakness and easy fatigue, loss of appetite due to nausea and vomiting, muscle atrophy, tremors, abnormal mental function, frequent shallow respiration and metabolic acidosis. It can be defined as an excess of amino acid and protein metabolism end products, such as urea and creatinine, in the blood that would be normally excreted in the urine. The Uremic Syndrome can be defined as the terminal clinical manifestation of kidney failure (also called renal failure). It is the signs, symptoms and results from laboratory tests which result from inadequate excretory, regulatory and endocrine function of the kidneys. Both uremia and the uremic syndrome have been used interchangeably to define a very high plasma urea concentration that is the result of renal failure
Background. Uremia is a clinical syndrome associated with fluid, electrolyte, and hormone imbalances and metabolic abnormalities, which develop in parallel with deterioration of renal function. Uremia more commonly develops with chronic kidney disease (CKD), especially the later stages, of CKD, but it also may occur with acute kidney injury (AKI) if loss of renal function is rapid. As yet, no single uremic toxin has been identified that accounts for all of the clinical manifestations of uremia.
Uremic fetor (ammonia or urinelike odor to the breath) also may be present. Symptoms of uremic encephalopathy include fatigue, muscle weakness, malaise, headache, restless legs, asterixis, polyneuritis, mental status changes, muscle cramps, seizures, stupor, and coma. Amyloid deposits may result in medial nerve neuropathy, carpal tunnel syndrome, or other nerve entrapment syndromes
Topic Overview. Uremia (uremic syndrome) is a serious complication of chronic kidney disease and acute kidney injury (also known as acute renal failure). Uremic syndrome may affect any part of the body and can cause: 1  Nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and weight loss. 2  Changes in mental status, such as confusion, reduced awareness, agitation, psychosis, seizures, and coma.
Uremia is life-threatening because too much nitrogen in the blood is toxic to the body. Symptoms of uremia include confusion, loss of consciousness, low urine production, dry mouth, fatigue, weakness, pale skin or pallor, bleeding problems, rapid heart rate (tachycardia), edema (swelling), and excessive thirst. Fluid therapy, blood transfusions, and blood pressure medications may also be administered. Ongoing treatment after the acute symptoms of uremia have been addressed may include medication, dialysis, or dietary modification.
Prolonged or severe fluid buildup (edema) may make the uremic syndrome worse. Uremic syndrome may affect any part of the body and can cause: 1  Nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, and weight loss. 2  Changes in mental status, such as confusion, reduced awareness, agitation, psychosis, seizures, and coma. 3  Abnormal bleeding, such as bleeding spontaneously or profusely from a very minor injury