Split and merge into it. Answer by Donmig04. Confidence votes 114. Lyme disease is an infection that is spread by the bite of ticks infected with the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi. Symptoms include fatigue, headache, stiff neck, fever, muscle or joint pain and swelling, and sometimes an expanding red rash. If a rash does develop, it may look like a target or bull's-eye in some people.
Lyme disease is a controversial name and a very misunderstood disease. Technically the name Lyme disease refers to infection with Borrelia burgdorferi sensu stricto bacteria, common in the East Coast of USA. In Europe and in Russia it is called Lyme borreliosis and caused by the Borrelia burgdorferi sensu lato group of which the American Borrelia is a member. 
Early symptoms of Lyme disease are often similar to the flu. Borrelia burgdorferi is a species of Gram-negative bacteria and is also the cause of Lyme disease. Lyme disease is a zoonotic, vector-borne disease transmitted through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States, and the western blacklegged tick spreads the disease on the Pacific Coast.
Lyme disease is an infection that is spread by the bite of ticks infected with the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi. Symptoms include fatigue, headache, stiff neck, fever, muscle or joint pain and swelling, and sometimes an expanding red rash. If a rash does develop, it may look like a target or bull's-eye in some people.
Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete—a corkscrew-shaped bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. Lyme is called “The Great Imitator,” because its symptoms mimic many other diseases. It can affect any organ of the body, including the brain and nervous system, muscles and joints, and the heart. 
Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Source(s): http://www.cdc.gov/ncidod/dvbid/lyme/ind... bettyboop · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Lyme disease is known as Lyme Borreliosis and is a tick-transmitted spirochetal infection.. THe spirochete is named Borrelia burgdorferi and it is transmitted by ticks of the Ixodes ricnus complex. Source(s): Merck Manual. birdhome@sbcglobal.net
Lyme disease is caused by bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. This bacterium is carried by certain ticks, and spreads to the host when the tick bites. The bacterium is normally found in small animals such as mice, squirrels, chipmunks, shrews, etc. 
In the United States, Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, carried primarily by blacklegged or deer ticks. The ticks are brown and, when young, often no bigger than a poppy seed, which can make them nearly impossible to spot. To contract Lyme disease, an infected deer tick must bite you. 
An infectious disease is any disease caused by a pathogen (germ) such as a virus, bacteria, parasite, or fungus. Although we will mostly discuss infectious diseases in people on this page, other living organisms such as animals, plants, and microorganisms can all be made ill by an infectious disease. Pathogens. Pathogen is the scientific name for germ.. Infectious diseases are caused by pathogens. When your mom says to wash your hands because of germs, she wants you to get all the pathogens off your hands so they won't go into your mouth and body.
Lyme disease is the most common disease spread by ticks in the Northern Hemisphere. It is estimated to affect 300,000 people a year in the United States and 65,000 people a year in Europe. Infections are most common in the spring and early summer. Lyme disease is caused by spirochetal bacteria from the genus Borrelia. Spirochetes are surrounded by peptidoglycan and flagella, along with an outer membrane similar to other Gram-negative bacteria.