The meaning of the term humanism has fluctuated, according to the successive intellectual movements which have identified with it. Generally, however, humanism refers to a perspective that affirms some notion of human freedom and progress. Schiller labelled his work humanism but for Schiller the term referred to the pragmatist philosophy he shared with William James. In 1929, Charles Francis Potter founded the First Humanist Society of New York whose advisory board included Julian Huxley, John Dewey, Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann.
humanism. 1. any system or mode of thought or action in which human interests, values, and dignity are taken to be of primary importance, as in moral judgments. 2. a devotion to or study of the humanities. 3. a theory of the life of man as a responsible being behaving independently of a revelation or deity. Also called naturalistic, scientific, or philosophical humanism. — humanist, n. — humanistic, adj
Full Definition of HUMANISM. 1. a: devotion to the humanities: literary culture b: the revival of classical letters, individualistic and critical spirit, and emphasis on secular concerns characteristic of the Renaissance. 2. : humanitarianism. 3. 3. : a doctrine, attitude, or way of life centered on human interests or values; especially: a philosophy that usually rejects supernaturalism and stresses an individual's dignity and worth and capacity for self-realization through reason.
) a person who follows a form of scientific or philosophical humanism. 6. pertaining to human nature, affairs, or welfare. 7. (sometimes cap. ) of or pertaining to the humanities or classical scholarship, esp. that of the Renaissance humanists, or to philosophical or scientific humanism. humanist-of or pertaining to a philosophy asserting human dignity and man's capacity for fulfillment through reason and scientific method and often rejecting religion; the humanist belief in continuous emergent evolution- Wendell Thomas. humanistic.
1. A believer in the principles of humanism. 2. One who is concerned with the interests and welfare of humans. 3. a. A classical scholar. b. A student of the humanities. 4. Humanist A Renaissance scholar devoted to Humanism. humanist-of or pertaining to a philosophy asserting human dignity and man's capacity for fulfillment through reason and scientific method and often rejecting religion; the humanist belief in continuous emergent evolution- Wendell Thomas. humanistic.
Noun. 1. humanism-the doctrine that people's duty is to promote human welfare. humanitarianism. doctrine, ism, philosophical system, philosophy, school of thought-a belief (or system of beliefs) accepted as authoritative by some group or school. 2. a devotion to or study of the humanities. 3. a theory of the life of man as a responsible being behaving independently of a revelation or deity. Also called naturalistic, scientific, or philosophical humanism. — humanist, n.
noun. The definition of humanism is a belief that human needs and values are more important than religious beliefs, or the needs and desires of humans. 1  An example of humanism is the belief that the person creates their own set of ethics. 2  An example of humanism is planting vegetables in garden beds. humanism. 1  the quality of being human; human nature. 2  any system of thought or action based on the nature, interests, and ideals of humanity; specif., a modern, nontheistic, rationalist movement that holds that humanity is capable of self-fulfillment, ethical conduct, etc. without recourse to supernaturalism.
Literary Humanism is a devotion to the humanities or literary culture. Renaissance Humanism is the spirit of learning that developed at the end of the middle ages with the revival of classical letters and a renewed confidence in the ability of human beings to determine for themselves truth and falsehood. 1 Humanism is a philosophy focused upon human means for comprehending reality. 2  Humanists make no claims to possess or have access to supposed transcendent knowledge. 3  Humanism is a philosophy of reason and science in the pursuit of