Look how beautiful the Laksa Paste is! Laksa is a popular spicy noodle soup from the Peranakan culture, which is a merger of Chinese and Malay elements found in Malaysia and Singapore. This is the Singapore Laksa version which is rich and creamy, it marries the Malay and Chinese styles of cooking. 
Curry laksa (in many places referred to simply as laksa) is a coconut-based curry soup. The main ingredients for most versions of curry laksa include bean curd puffs, fish sticks, shrimp and cockles. Some vendors may sell chicken laksa. The main ingredients for asam laksa include shredded fish, normally kembung (small mackerel of the Rastrelliger genus), and finely sliced vegetables including cucumber, onions, red chillies, pineapple, lettuce, common mint, daun kesum (Vietnamese mint or laksa mint) and pink bunga kantan (torch ginger).
1 Add the carrot to the laksa, then reduce the heat to low and simmer for 5 min or until the chicken is cooked through. 2  Add the pak choi and sugar snap peas or mangetout, then cook for 1 min more. 3  Meanwhile, put the vermicelli noodles in a large heatproof bowl, cover with boiling water and leave to soak for 3 min. 4  Drain. 
How do you sum up a Laksa for somebody who hasn’t tried it before? On the one hand it ticks lots of boxes that somehow bring to mind healthy thoughts: spicy; fresh-flavours; crunchy veg and soup. On the other hand it has that essential comfort-food ingredient carbohydrate (in the form of noodles), and is bathed in luscious, creamy coconut milk. 
Heat the chicken stock in a saucepan over medium-high heat. Once hot, whisk in the laksa paste. Add the chicken, tomato, sugar and 1/2 teaspoon sea salt, and simmer for 10 minutes or until the chicken is cooked through. Add the coconut milk and beans and simmer for a further 5 minutes or until the beans are just tender. 1  Step 3.
You should consider that laksa has coconut milk which is high is fat, but at the same time it usually contains meat and vegetables-especially bean sprouts, which is highly nutritious. I am currently trying to loose weight and i am curious whether any type of laksa is a good dinner option. I will not be eating it on a regular basis, i just would prefer something i know is safe to eat-weight loss wise. Follow.
Place the chicken, in a single layer, in a shallow, heatproof, microwave-safe dish. Pour over 250ml (1 cup) of the chicken stock. Cover with a lid or plastic wrap and cook on Medium/500watts/50% for 10 minutes or until the chicken is just cooked through. Set aside for 5 minutes to rest.
Laksa is a popular spicy noodle soup in the Peranakan cuisine, which is a combination of Chinese and Malay cuisine. Laksa consists of rice noodles or rice vermicelli with chicken, prawn or fish, served in spicy soup; either based on rich and spicy curry coconut milk, or based on sour asam (tamarind or gelugur). It can be found in Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Southern Thailand. The main ingredients for asam laksa include shredded fish, normally kembung (small mackerel of the Rastrelliger genus), and finely sliced vegetables including cucumber, onions, red chillies, pineapple, lettuce, common mint, daun kesum (Vietnamese mint or laksa mint) and pink bunga kantan (torch ginger).
Er, maybe u can just continue to eat any laksa and refrain from sipping up all the soup, cos that's where the fat is. Also, if you have gastric problems, try to take laksa that is not so spicy. Laksa is good la, make you feel happy, haha. I am currently trying to loose weight and i am curious whether any type of laksa is a good dinner option. I will not be eating it on a regular basis, i just would prefer something i know is safe to eat-weight loss wise. Follow.