An overview of Hepatitis C: Hepatitis C is a disease that is caused by a virus in which affects your liver. Over time it can cause permanent liver damage, liver cancer, and even liver damage. Most people are unaware that they have hepatitis C until it has already caused some damage to their liver.
This article is about the viral particle. For the disease, see Hepatitis C. Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a small (55–65 nm in size), enveloped, positive-sense single-stranded RNA virus of the family Flaviviridae. Hepatitis C virus is the cause of hepatitis C and some cancer lymphomas in humans.
1 Share Your Story. 2  Hepatitis C is one of several viruses that cause hepatitis (inflammation of the liver). 3  Up to 85% of individuals who are initially (acutely) infected with hep C will fail to eliminate the virus and will become chronically infected. 
Hepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) which affects the liver. It can cause both acute and chronic infections. Many people have no symptoms during the initial infection. 
About Hepatitis C Infection. Hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects your liver. Your liver is an important organ in your body and has many functions. The liver removes harmful chemicals from your body, aids digestion, and processes vitamins and nutrients from food. Infectious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus for which there is no vaccine and which commonly becomes chronic. Now the most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and National Library of Medicine)
Causes of hepatitis C: Hepatitis C is spread through the contact of an infected person blood. Hepatitis C is caused from the hepatitis C virus. The most common way to receive hepatitis C is from sharing needles and any other equipment you may use to take illegal drugs. Hepatitis C is a disease that is caused by a virus in which affects your liver. Over time it can cause permanent liver damage, liver cancer, and even liver damage.
Know Your Hep C Facts. Hepatitis C is an infectious (contagious) liver disease that spreads through blood-to-blood contact with an infected person. 
Treatment. Hepatitis C does not always require treatment as the immune response in some people will clear the infection, and some people with chronic infection do not develop liver damage. When treatment is necessary, the goal of hepatitis C treatment is cure.
The standard course of treatment for hepatitis C includes various combinations of antiviral medications over the course of at least several weeks, and up to a year or more. These drugs are designed to: 1  rid your body of the virus. 2  slow down or prevent inflammation and damage to the liver. 