Definition. Respiratory rate (also known as ventilation rate, respiration rate, breathing rate, pulmonary ventilation rate, breathing frequency, and respiratory frequency or Rf) = the number of breaths a person takes during one minute. It is usually measured at rest, while sitting. 
The respiratory rate is the number of breaths that a patient takes each minute. The rate should be taken when the patient is at rest, and it is assessed by counting the number of times the chest rises in one minute. Measuring respirations. The respiratory rate is the number of breaths that a patient takes each minute. The rate should be taken when the patient is at rest, and it is assessed by counting the number of times the chest rises in one minute. Common factors that influence respiration rate are as follows:
How to Measure and Record Respiratory Rate. Respiration is the process that occurs when oxygen is inhaled into the lungs, converted into energy via a chemical reaction and expelled as carbon dioxide. Normal respiration is an automatic process and does not require conscious effort. One respiration consists of one complete rise and fall of the chest, or the inhalation and exhalation of air. The normal respiratory rate for a healthy adult at rest is 12-to-20 breaths per minute.
Please try again later. In this video, you will learn how to count your pet's resting respiratory rate (RRR). A normal dog's respiratory rate when resting or sleeping is quite low, less than 35 breaths in a minute. The RRR may increase when heart failure develops or with other breathing problems. You can provide useful information for your veterinarian by keeping a RRR diary and bringing it to your next appointment
When someone breathes, they breathe in oxygen and then breathe out carbon dioxide. The breathing rate, or the number of times that a person breathes in and out in 1 minute, is often checked by health care professionals to determine the health of a person. The normal breathing rate is between 12 and 18 breaths per minute. Many factors affect a person's breathing. You must learn to test for breaths per minute and spot the reasons or causes behind slow or fast breathing. This article will tell you how to check the breathing rate.
The respiration rate is the number of breaths a person takes per minute. The rate is usually measured when a person is at rest and simply involves counting the number of breaths for one minute by counting how many times the chest rises. 
A normal respiratory rate is termed eupnea, an increased respiratory rate is termed tachypnea and a lower-than-normal respiratory rate is termed bradypnea. Breathing (which in organisms with lungs is called ventilation and includes inhalation and exhalation) is a part of respiration. The value of respiratory rate as an indicator of potential respiratory dysfunction has been investigated but findings suggest it is of limited value. One study found that only 33% of people presenting to an emergency department with an oxygen saturation below 90% had an increased respiratory rate.
Observe the rise and fall of the victim's chest and count the number of respirations out loud for one full minute. One respiration consists of one complete rise and fall of the chest, or the inhalation and exhalation of air. The normal respiratory rate for a healthy adult at rest is 12-to-20 breaths per minute.
A normal respiratory rate for a toddler is between 25 and 30 breaths per minute; for children between the ages of 3 and 6 years, it averages between 21 and 24; and for children between the ages of 6 and 10 years, it averages 19 to 20. A normal respiratory rate for an adolescent is between 16 and 20 breaths per minute. Again, be aware of the signs of respiratory distress (tachypnea, retractions, and nasal flaring) and if you observe these, initiate treatment immediately.