Trap rap is a term that is usually given to rappers with a style that glorifies selling drugs, and other things that naturally come along with it, such as the usual, getting women, guns, fame, etc. Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. However, also like trap music, a person that is considered a conscience rapper doesn’t always necessarily make conscience music, just as if a person makes a conscience song it doesn’t make him a conscience rapper.
Trap music is a music genre that originated in the early 1990s in the Southern United States. It is typified by its aggressive lyrical content and sound, where the instrumentals are propelled by 808 kick drums or heavy extended sub-bass lines, double-time, triple-time and other faster time division hi-hats, layered synthesizers, and cinematic strings.
During the early-to-mid 2000s, trap music began to emerge as a recognized genre after the mainstream success of a number of albums and singles with lyrics that covered topics about life in the trap, drug dealing and the struggle for success. It is typified by its aggressive lyrical content and sound, where the instrumentals are propelled by 808 kick drums or heavy extended sub-bass lines, double-time, triple-time and other faster time division hi-hats, layered synthesizers, and cinematic strings.
When speaking of the “originators” in the trap music game, southern rappers like Waka Flocka Flame, Gucci Mane, Young Jeezy, Three 6 Mafia, and Manny Fresh come to mind. Modern producers of the new trap music genre that have been emerging above the rest include artists RL Grime, TNGHT (Hudson Mohawke x Lunice), Flosstradamus, Baauer, DJ Sliink, Heroes x Villians, UZ, LOUDPVCK, gLAdiator, and Luminox. And the Trap Music genre continues to evolve as it progresses.
Throughout 2011 to 2012, trap songs maintained a strong presence on the mainstream Billboard music charts with records released by rappers such as Young Jeezy, Chief Keef and Future went viral. Jeezy's single  Ballin  hit #57 on the Billboard charts and was considered one of Jeezy's best tracks in some time. It is typified by its aggressive lyrical content and sound, where the instrumentals are propelled by 808 kick drums or heavy extended sub-bass lines, double-time, triple-time and other faster time division hi-hats, layered synthesizers, and cinematic strings.
We’ve gotten to the what is conscience/trap, now here’s the VS. part. Trap music is considerably more popular and mainstream while for the most part conscience rap is underground and has a less of an audience. But as to which one is better, is up to you. Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. However, also like trap music, a person that is considered a conscience rapper doesn’t always necessarily make conscience music, just as if a person makes a conscience song it doesn’t make him a conscience rapper.
4 Yo Gotti. New To The Game but good at the trap. 5 TI. His beats aren't hardcore southern trap beats, but TI is the only Southern rapper with good lyricism, good flow, and some cool beats. Just listen to What you know, dead and gone, no matter what, that's all she wrote, live your life, and the list goes on. 
Conscience rap is often considered to be the opposite of trap rap. Conscience rap is often affiliated with underground rappers, not amassing to the appeal that trap rap has. From Wiki, Conscious hip hop or socially conscious hip-hop is a sub-genre of hip hop that focuses on social issues. Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. However, also like trap music, a person that is considered a conscience rapper doesn’t always necessarily make conscience music, just as if a person makes a conscience song it doesn’t make him a conscience rapper.
Drill is a trap subgenre originating from young Chicago (prominently south-side) rappers and producers. The genre is one of the most prominent contemporary facets of Chicago hip hop. Drill is defined by its dark, grim, violent lyrical content and ominous trap-influenced beats. The toughened reality of living in these neighborhoods is what shaped Drill music.. In the drill scene, rap conflict and gang conflict overlap, and many of the young rappers come from backgrounds with experience of violence.