Where is Scandinavia: Geographically speaking, the Scandinavian peninsula is the area shared by Norway, Sweden and part of northern Finland. In this view, the Scandinavian countries would therefore focus only on Norway and Sweden. Linguistically, Swedish, Norwegian and Danish have a common word called Skandinavien. What are the Nordic countries: In such a state of linguistic and geographical confusion, the French came to help us all and invented the term Pays Nordiques or Nordic Countries, which has become a common term to bring together Scandinavia, Iceland and Finland under the same umbrella.
The Origin of Finland About twelve thousand years ago, Finland (the area inhabited by Finns, Karelians and Lapps, between Norway and Lake Onega) was almost totally buried under a continental ice sheet, just as Greenland is today. 1 The situation became intolerable in the 17th and 18th Century because Sweden continually took the army away from Finnish soil, leaving the people vulnerable to Slavic attacks and encroachment. 2  As a result, tens of thousands of people were killed or marched east to uncertain fates as slaves.
This article is about the European ethnic group. For other uses of Finns or Finn, see Finn (disambiguation) . The terms Finns and Finnish people (Finnish: suomalaiset, Swedish: finnar) may refer in English to ethnic Finns, not including other ethnic groups in Finland, such as Finland Swedes and Russians in Finland. For other ethnic groups living in Finland, please refer to Demographics of Finland. The group ethnic Finns includes smaller groups in several countries, some of which are native to these countries and some which have immigrated there.
Russia could put pressure on Scandinavia not to come to the aid of the three Baltic states [Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania], which do have Russian ethnic minorities, he said. Or they could warn in advance for Finland and Sweden not to join NATO. It's a key foreign policy for Russia to prevent NATO's enlargement.. 
Geographically Finland is one of the largest countries in Western Europe and the one with the greatest percentage of natural, forested area. Finnish is a supremely interesting language, a member of the Finno-Ugric language family (as distinct from neighboring Scandinavian, Slavic, and other Indo-European languages). Finnish is taught at only 11 universities in the United States on a consistent basis. The Finnish Studies Program at Berkeley is sponsored jointly by the Institute of European Studies and the Department of Scandinavian.
The groups that have immigrated to their respective countries include the Finnish-speaking population of Sweden and groups in the United States, Canada, Brazil and Australia. Finnish, the language spoken by most Baltic Finns, is closely related to other Finnic languages, e.g. Estonian and Karelian. For other ethnic groups living in Finland, please refer to Demographics of Finland. The group ethnic Finns includes smaller groups in several countries, some of which are native to these countries and some which have immigrated there.
Location and Geography. Finland is bordered on the east by Russia, on the south by the Gulf of Finland and Estonia, on the west by the Gulf of Bothnia and Sweden, and on the north and northwest by Norway. A quarter of its territory is north of the Arctic Circle. Four physiographic-biotic regions divide the country. Although Finnish was established as a written language as early as the sixteenth century, its official status in Finland did not become equivalent to that of Swedish until after the Language Ordinance of 1863. Finnish is a euphonious language with many Germanic and Slavic loan words.
In contrast to this definition, the term Finns may also refer to all inhabitants of Finland, regardless of their ethnic affiliation, i.e. also Somalis in Finland. This article is about ethnic Finns. For other ethnic groups living in Finland, please refer to Demographics of Finland. The group ethnic Finns includes smaller groups in several countries, some of which are native to these countries and some which have immigrated there.
And so do the Faroe Islands. Therefore, you will find that many non-Scandinavian travelers connect Scandinavia to Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland and Iceland. And finally, Swedish is used partially in Finland just as Finnish is spoken in Norway and Sweden. What are the Nordic countries: In such a state of linguistic and geographical confusion, the French came to help us all and invented the term Pays Nordiques or Nordic Countries, which has become a common term to bring together Scandinavia, Iceland and Finland under the same umbrella.
UC-Berkeley is privileged to offer Finnish language studies through the Department of Scandinavian. Finnish is taught at only 11 universities in the United States on a consistent basis. The Finnish Studies Program at Berkeley is sponsored jointly by the Institute of European Studies and the Department of Scandinavian.