The liver is located on the upper side of your right abdomen below your diaphragm and enclosed by your rib cage. At the back of your liver is where the gallbladder is located and closer to the spleen, stomach, intestines and kidneys. You can actually feel your liver by laying your fingers under your right rib cage. The liver processes everything you ingest into your body, from foods to medicines, even lotions and deodorants. Know where your liver is located. Now that you already have an idea as to the exact location of the liver, check the location of your liver. lie down onto the floor and push the right side of your abdomen below your rib cage and inhale. A healthy liver must be situated along the diaphragm all through your lowest rib
The diaphragm is a large muscle just below the lungs. It help us breathe.   The diaphragm is located inferior to the lungs and deep in the thoracic cavity. Diaphragm … is present in upper side of the abdomen and lower side of the chest. You need to see the original diaphragm in the dissected body. That is very beautiful structure to see. 8 people found this useful. Ahmadbtm. Your diaphragm is located below your lungs. When you relax your muscles, your diaphragm is shaped like a dome.
Diaphragm is underneath you lungs and on top of your liver.  It cover by your ribs. Your diaphragm help you and your lungs to  breath.   The diaphragm is the part of your body that inflates your chest as  you breathe.It is actually very important. + 2 others found this useful.
Thoracic diaphragm. The diaphragm is the primary muscle used in the process of inspiration, or inhalation. It is a dome-shaped sheet of muscle that is inserted into the lower ribs. Lying at the base of the thorax (chest), it separates the abdominal cavity from the thoracic cavity. It is a thin, skeletal muscle that can contract voluntarily
Click to read more below. The diaphragm is the dome-shaped sheet of muscle and tendon that serves as the main muscle of respiration and plays a vital role in the breathing process. Diaphragm. The diaphragm is the dome-shaped sheet of muscle and tendon that serves as the main muscle of respiration and plays a vital role in the breathing process.
Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen. 
The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity containing the heart and lungs, from the abdominal cavity and performs an important function in respiration: as the diaphragm contracts, the volume of the thoracic cavity increases and air is drawn into the lungs. The diaphragm is a dome-shaped structure of muscle and fibrous tissue that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdomen. The dome curves upwards.