A Conductor leads an orchestra, opera, or other musical ensemble through visible gestures, setting the tempo and shaping the group’s interpretations and sound. Conductors often also serve as Music Directors for the ensemble, although sometimes these are separate positions. 
That’s really the basic role of the conductor: to be the messenger and the advocate for the composer, and to try to get that narrative across to the audience. ‘The goal for me is to always try to inspire and encourage people, and create the environment for musicians to be the best they can be. 
1 The orchestra, not the conductor, physically creates the sound. 2  It is not always clear to what extent the conductor is responsible for a good (or bad) performance, though the picture generally becomes clearer over time. 3  The conductor's role is rooted in the aristocratic tradition of the 18th and 19th centuries. Evaluating conductors objectively can be difficult: 1  There is no correct way to perform a given work of art; honest and vigorous differences of opinion are possible. 2  The orchestra, not the conductor, physically creates the sound
The metal copper is a called a conductor (of electricity) but also a person who conducts an orchestra and/or a choir or someone who manages a bus or a train are also cal … led conductors. An electrical conductor is a substance that permits electrons to flow through it easily. Most metals are good conductors. In contrast, insulators are strongly resistant to any flow of electrons. Semiconductors can be controlled in their conductivity, and are thus very useful in electronics.
Role of the Conductor during Performance   The role of the conductor in an orchestra is mainly to keep everyone together, especially on tempo changes. An electrical conductor is a substance that permits electrons to flow through it easily. Most metals are good conductors. In contrast, insulators are strongly resistant to any flow of electrons. Semiconductors can be controlled in their conductivity, and are thus very useful in electronics.
The conductors main role is in rehearsal, where they will lead the orchestra through their vision of the piece. At the performance the conductor leads them through it. While in performance a conductor does keep the beat that's not why they're there. 
The physics meaning of a conductor is a substance, body, or device that readily conducts heat, electricity, sound, etc. E.g. copper is a very good conductor of electricity and heat. An electrical conductor is a substance that permits electrons to flow through it easily. Most metals are good conductors. In contrast, insulators are strongly resistant to any flow of electrons. Semiconductors can be controlled in their conductivity, and are thus very useful in electronics.
A conductor is someone who leads and guides an orchestra or a group of singers in order to perform a piece to the best of their abilities. Conductors work in theater or stage plays, film or TV scores, lead orchestras and choirs that are either amateurs or pros. Composers play many different roles, they can be performers, songwriters, educators or conductors. Here are several celebrated composers of the past who were also respected conductors. Learn more about their lives, important works and other pertinent facts.
Confidence votes 449. Role of the Conductor during Performance The role of the conductor in an orchestra is mainly to keep everyone together, especially on tempo changes. Other Roles of the Conductor Usually, the conductor also chooses the repertoire of the orchestra for each season.