25 things we love about Poland: The pope – To celebrate Poland's 25 years of independence, readers shared their favorite things about the country. The most famous person in Poland is arguably Pope John Paul II.
Answer by Konrad Sitkowski. Confidence votes 22. It is famous for;the best pope in the world was from Poland.His name was John Poul the second in polish Jan Paweł II .And also the statio of a mermied is in Krakow.Kraków i was. there
Poland is bordered by Germany to the west; the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south; Ukraine, Belarus and Lithuania to the east; and … the Baltic Sea and Kaliningrad Oblast, a Russian enclave, to the north. The capital and the largest city is Warsaw, which is in central Poland, on the Vistula River.
Poland is also famous for Nicolas Copernicus who was the first man to formulate a comprehensive heliocentric cosmology, which displaced the Earth from the center of the universe.
Poland has survived centuries of conflict to emerge as a proud, independent country, ready to assume her new role in modern history. Visitors to Poland are discovering what the locals have long known, that Poland is a country rich in fine culture, scenic landscapes and extraordinary historical sites.
The official name of Poland is the Republic of Poland. Poland is the 9th largest country in Europe by land area. 1  Seven countries share a border with Poland including Russia, Lithuania, Belarus, Slovakia, Ukraine, the Czech Republic, and Germany. 2  Poland is home to over 38 million people (38,383,809) as of July 2013. 3  Warsaw is the largest city and capital
Poland is a country located in Europe It is bordered on all sides  by Russia, Germany, Belarus, Solvakia, Ukraine, Czech Republic,  & Lithunania. It also borders the Baltic … Sea.
38) Pope John Paul II also known as Karol Wojtyla (1920-2005) was Polish. He was the only Polish Pope to date and served the second longest. Additionally he is credited with contributing to hastening the end of communism in Poland and throughout Central and Eastern Europe.