Yes it does. Celebrex works as well as other NSAIDs for gouty pain, rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and painful menstrual cycles, just for a few examples. So does meloxicam, a COX-2 inhibitor like Celebrex, and meloxicam is much cheaper. Celebrex (celecoxib) has been the answer for pain from osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, headache and tooth pain for many people, especially in those who get stomach irritation from regular ibuprofen. Celebrex costs a ton because it’s a brand name drug and not available as a generic until 2014.
See also Warning section. Before taking celecoxib, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to aspirin, other NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen), other COX-2 inhibitors; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Gastrointestinal Risk. 1  NSAIDs, including CELEBREX, cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal.
Stop using celecoxib and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance; 2  black, bloody, or tarry stools; 3  coughing up blood or vomit that looks like coffee grounds; Gastrointestinal Risk. 1  NSAIDs, including CELEBREX, cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal.
Celebrex belongs to a group of medicines called Coxibs. Celebrex is used to relieve the pain and inflammation associated with arthritis. Although Celebrex can relieve the symptoms of pain and inflammation, it will not cure your condition. Your doctor, however, may have prescribed Celebrex for another purpose. It does not take the place of talking to your doctor or pharmacist. All medicines have risks and benefits. Your doctor will weigh the risks of you taking Celebrex against the benefits it is expected to have for you. If you have any concerns about taking Celebrex, ask
Celebrex is the brand name for the prescription pain reliever celecoxib, the drug's active ingredient. Doctors prescribe Celebrex to treat pain, swelling, and stiffness of arthritis and some other conditions. Celebrex is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, often referred to simply as an NSAID. NSAIDs block swelling, pain, and fever. Celebrex works by stopping the production of COX-2, a natural substance in the body that causes pain and inflammation. There are two important warnings you should be aware of before taking Celebrex: 1  Celebrex and other NSAIDs can increase the risk of heart attack and stroke that may occur without warning and can be fatal. 2  Celebrex and other NSAIDs may cause ulcers, stomach perforations, and sudden bleeding in your stomach or intestine.
Celecoxib is used to treat pain or inflammation caused by many conditions such as arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, and menstrual pain. Celecoxib is also used in the treatment of hereditary polyps in the colon. Celecoxib may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Stop using celecoxib and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain, weakness, shortness of breath, slurred speech, problems with vision or balance;
Precautions. See also Warning section. Before taking celecoxib, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to aspirin, other NSAIDs (such as ibuprofen), other COX-2 inhibitors; or if you have any other allergies. How to use Celebrex. Read the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist before you start using celecoxib and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once or twice daily.
1 NSAIDs, including CELEBREX, cause an increased risk of serious gastrointestinal adverse events including bleeding, ulceration, and perforation of the stomach or intestines, which can be fatal. 2  These events can occur at any time during use and without warning symptoms. Gastrointestinal Risk. 1 
A: Celebrex (celecoxib) is a COX-2 selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which is approved for the treatment of osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, management of acute pain, and treatment of primary dysmenorrhea. There are two important warnings you should be aware of before taking Celebrex: 1  Celebrex and other NSAIDs can increase the risk of heart attack and stroke that may occur without warning and can be fatal. 2  Celebrex and other NSAIDs may cause ulcers, stomach perforations, and sudden bleeding in your stomach or intestine.