Geologically, a fjord is a long, narrow inlet with steep sides or cliffs, created in a valley carved by glacial activity. In Iceland during the Ice Age, massive glaciers carved out the plunging fjords which cut into the coastline on the north, east and west and created razor sharp mountain ridges. 
For example, Norway is famous for its fjords. You can also find fjords along the west coast of Europe, Alaska, Canada, Greenland, New Zealand and Chile. Recently, scientists have discovered coral reefs at the bottom of many fjords in Norway. They’re not sure what processes led to the formation of these coral reefs. 
The Fjord horse or Norwegian Fjord Horse is a relatively small but very strong horse breed from the mountainous regions of Western Norway. It is an agile breed of light draught horse build. All Fjord horses are dun in colour, with five variations in shade recognised in the breed standard. One of the world's oldest breeds, it has been used for hundreds of years as a farm horse in Norway, and in modern times is popular for its generally good temperament. It is used both as a harness horse and under saddle.
• FJORD (noun). The noun FJORD has 1 sense: 1. a long narrow inlet of the sea between steep cliffs; common in Norway. Familiarity information: FJORD used as a noun is very rare. 
A fjord is formed when a glacier cuts a U-shaped valley by ice segregation and abrasion of the surrounding bedrock. Glacial melting is accompanied by the rebounding of the Earth's crust as the ice load and eroded sediment is removed (also called isostasy or glacial rebound). These reefs were found in fjords from the north of Norway to the south. The marine life on the reefs is believed to be one of the most important reasons why the Norwegian coastline is such a generous fishing ground. Since this discovery is fairly new, little research has been done.
fjord. A long, narrow, winding inlet from the sea between steep slopes of a mountainous coast. Fjords usually occur where ocean water flows into valleys formed near the coast by glaciers. fjord. n. 1. (Physical Geography) (esp on the coast of Norway) a long narrow inlet of the sea between high steep cliffs formed by glacial action. [C17: from Norwegian, from Old Norse fjoerthr; fjörthr see, firth]. ford
noun. A long, narrow, deep inlet of the sea between high cliffs, as in Norway, typically formed by submergence of a glaciated valley. Example sentences. 1  The area is made up of 14 long, narrow and incredibly deep fjords formed by massive glaciers thousands of years ago. 2  The first part of the trip explores the coast, a region of emerald rain forests, deep fjords, rich sealife, and tidewater glaciers that crumble into icy seas. 1
Noun. 1. fjord-a long narrow inlet of the sea between steep cliffs; common in Norway. fiord. inlet, recess-an arm off of a larger body of water (often between rocky headlands). Translations. [fjɔːd] N → fiordo m. fjord. n. 1. (Physical Geography) (esp on the coast of Norway) a long narrow inlet of the sea between high steep cliffs formed by glacial action. [C17: from Norwegian, from Old Norse fjoerthr; fjörthr see, firth]. ford
Full Definition of FJORD. : a narrow inlet of the sea between cliffs or steep slopes. See fjord defined for English-language learners. See fjord defined for kids. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Tiggergrowl8240. Fjords are narrow deep inlets of the sea set between high rocky cliffs:: Narrow, U-shaped inlets, with steep sides formed by the action of glaciers. A fjord is a valley that was flood by the sea. A Fjord is a hardy type of pony who lives in the coldest temperatures. It has a fuzzy mane and tail with a lovely pattern. 