It's also a trick question! Canada's two dollar is a coin, it's called a Toonie. Queen Elizabeth II is on the face of this coin, not a prime minister or a president. Canadian two dollar coins replaced paper bills in 1996. Interesting Money Fact: Bank of Canada prints Canadian paper money, but coins are minted by the Royal Canadian Mint. Queen Elizabeth 2nd is on $1 Loonie and on $2 Toonie.
The Canadian dollar (symbol : $ ; code: CAD) is the currency of Canada. It is abbreviated with the dollar sign $ , or sometimes C$ to distinguish it from other dollar-denominated currencies. It is divided into 100 cents. The Canadian dollar's value against the U.S. dollar rose sharply in 2007 because of the continued strength of the Canadian economy and the U.S. currency's weakness on world markets. During trading on September 20, 2007 it met the U.S. dollar at parity for the first time since November 25, 1976.
Confidence votes 33.2K. Always let your conscience be your guide.: Penny Kaye has a BS degree in Elementary Education. The Canadian dollar (sign: $ ; code: CAD) is the currency of Canada. The Canadian one dollar coin is also known as the Loonie due to the fact that it bears the image of the common loon. Canada has its own currency the Canadian Dollar which is decimalized into 100 cents. The Canadian dollar is currently worth $1.35 compared to the US dollar.
Importance of the Canadian Dollar. The Canadian Dollar is the seventh-most traded currency on the Forex market, as many institutions and individuals trade the CAD. People also refer to the CAD as the Loonie, buck, Huard, and Piastre (in French). The Canadian Dollar is held as a reserve currency by a number of central banks
Any Canadian bank will buy or sell US bills to or from members of the general public, in denominations as low as one dollar. You will usually get your best exchange rate at a … Canadian bank. The major US credit cards, such as Visa, Mastercard and American Express, are accepted in most Canadian businesses. The current rate is 1.06 Canadian Dollars to 1 Australian dollar. That means you need $1.06 Canadian for every $1 Australian. This does tend to change, however, so keeping an … exchange rate site bookmarked, or a smart phone application, are good tools to take advantage of.
Canadian coinage is the coinage of Canada, produced by the Royal Canadian Mint and denominated in Canadian dollars ($) and the subunit of dollars, cents (¢). 
A canadian one dollar is called a Loonie. It is so called because there's a lovely loon on the backside with her majesty the queen on the front. It's gold. I could go for a bad joke but I won't. A two dollar coin is called twoonie for two dollars. It's silver with a gold center. 
The Canadian Dollar is the currency of Canada. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Canada Dollar exchange rate is the USD to CAD rate. The currency code for Dollars is CAD, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Canadian Dollar rates and a currency converter. The Canadian Dollar is the seventh-most traded currency on the Forex market, as many institutions and individuals trade the CAD. People also refer to the CAD as the Loonie, buck, Huard, and Piastre (in French).
Coins are produced by the Royal Canadian Mint in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and currently issued in denominations of 5¢ (nickel), 10¢ (dime), 25¢ (quarter), 50¢ (50¢ piece) (though the 50¢ piece is rarely used in most provinces), $1 (loonie), and $2 (toonie). Pennies are no longer minted in Canada. Canada has its own currency the Canadian Dollar which is decimalized into 100 cents. The Canadian dollar is currently worth $1.35 compared to the US dollar.
It's a double trick question! Canada's one dollar is a coin, it's called a Loonie. Queen Elizabeth II is on the face of this coin, not a prime minister or a president. Canadian one dollar coins replaced paper bills in 1987. Queen Elizabeth II is on the face of this coin, not a prime minister or a president. Canadian two dollar coins replaced paper bills in 1996. Interesting Money Fact: Bank of Canada prints Canadian paper money, but coins are minted by the Royal Canadian Mint. Queen Elizabeth 2nd is on $1 Loonie and on $2 Toonie.