An initial dose of 150 mg/day in divided doses is suggested. The dose may be increased by 50 mg/day every three to four days. The maximum dose for outpatients usually should not exceed 400 mg/day in divided doses. Inpatients (ie, more severely depressed patients) may be given up to but not in excess of 600 mg/day in divided doses.
Trazodone (Desyrel) is an antidepressant that is used to treat depression. Some of the side effects associated with trazodone are somnolence, headache, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, low blood pressure, joint pain, nasal congestion, and weight changes. 
Treatment of Depression. The recommended initial dosage of trazodone is 150 mg/day taken in divided doses. The dose may be adjusted every three to four days with increment of 50 mg/day. The maximum daily dose for outpatients is 400 mg/day in divided doses. Although not approved by the Food and Drug Administration for this purpose, trazodone is frequently prescribed “off-label” as a sleep drug. When used as a sleep aid, the usual trazodone dosage is 25 to 50 mg taken at bedtime.
Treatment of Insomnia and Sleep Disorders. Although not approved by the Food and Drug Administration for this purpose, trazodone is frequently prescribed “off-label” as a sleep drug. When used as a sleep aid, the usual trazodone dosage is 25 to 50 mg taken at bedtime. Use in Special Population
The FDA has approved doxepin 3 mg and 6 mg for insomnia treatment. Typically, the lowest generic doses for this drug are 10 mg. Three mg and 6 mg doses are available under the brand name Silenor. This research suggests low-dose doxepin may be an alternative to hypnotics such as Ambien (zolpidem) for primary insomnia. This research supports further study of current drugs for novel mechanisms and new indications.
The maximum recommended dose of trazodone is 400 mg per day, although people who have been hospitalized due to depression may take up to 600 mg per day. Even though trazodone is not approved to treat insomnia, it is frequently prescribed in an  off-label  fashion for this use. Usually, the dose of trazodone for insomnia is lower, starting with 25 mg or 50 mg at bedtime. Dose of Trazodone for Depression. The recommended starting trazodone dosage when treating depression is 150 mg per day (divided into two or three doses per day).
Trazodone Dosage for Insomnia. Even though trazodone is not approved to treat insomnia, it is frequently prescribed in an  off-label  fashion for this use. Usually, the dose of trazodone for insomnia is lower, starting with 25 mg or 50 mg at bedtime. Dose of Trazodone for Depression. The recommended starting trazodone dosage when treating depression is 150 mg per day (divided into two or three doses per day).
All of the low-dose sedating antidepressants have half-lives greater than the usual sleep period. Even trazodone, the shortest-acting of these drugs and the least sedating, at a dose of 50 mg is associated with reports of daytime somnolence in 23% of patients compared with 8% for placebo. In contrast, while the use of low-dose sedating antidepressants for the management of insomnia is gaining in popularity, as pointed out by the National Institutes of Health, the wisdom of this use awaits further data on dose-related safety and efficacy.
For example, the drowsiness effect of trazodone can be helpful for people who have insomnia. Trazodone is especially useful as a sleep aid in people with depression, since it is effective for both insomnia and depression. Conversely, some antidepressants are likely to cause insomnia, even when taken in the morning. Trazodone can be used to treat insomnia caused by other antidepressant medications. Trazodone hydrochloride (Desyrel ®) is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of depression (also known as major depression or clinical depression). However, it is also often used  off-label  as a sleep aid, even though it is not approved for this use.
I continued to be amazed that trazodone continues to be used for insomnia. I have never used it as consistent with your research it should not work. To my knowledge the only medical literature on the use of trazodone for insomnia was with a dose of 150 mg at bedtime not 50 mg. I am not so sure that the discomfort in your stomach was due to the trazodone but I do not believe that I would take it again until you speak with your physician.