The triceps surae (/ˈtraɪsɛps ˈsjʊəriː/) (from Latin caput and sura. three-headed [muscle] of the calf) is a pair of muscles located at the calf-the two-headed gastrocnemius and the soleus. These muscles both insert into the calcaneus, the bone of the heel of the human foot, and form the major part of the muscle of the posterior leg, commonly known as the calf muscle. 
The 2 Main muscles are: (1.) Gastrocnemius is the muscle on the back of your calf, as well as the (2.) soleus muscle which lies under the gastrocnemius muscle. The two main types of muscles are voluntary muscles and involuntary muscles. An voluntary muscle is a muscle that you use and work at your own will power such as your biceps o … r quads. In involuntary muscle is a muscle that is always being uses and you can not direct it otherwise, such as the heart.
Picture of the Calf Muscle. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The calf muscle, on the back of the lower leg, is actually made up of two muscles: 1  The gastrocnemius is the larger calf muscle, forming the bulge visible beneath the skin. 2  The gastrocnemius has two parts or heads, which together create its diamond shape. 
The calf muscle is located on the back of the lower leg, below the knee, between the popliteal space and Achilles tendon. It is made up of two individual muscles, the gastrocnemius and soleus. The two main types of muscles are voluntary muscles and involuntary muscles. An voluntary muscle is a muscle that you use and work at your own will power such as your biceps o … r quads. In involuntary muscle is a muscle that is always being uses and you can not direct it otherwise, such as the heart.
Gastrocnemius. The gastrocnemius muscle is a muscle located on the back portion of the lower leg, being one of the two major muscles that make up the calf. The other major calf muscle, the soleus muscle, is a flat muscle that lies underneath the gastrocnemius. The gastrocnemius branches at the top behind the knee; the two branches are known as the medial and lateral heads. The flexing of this muscle during walking and bending of the knee creates traction on the femur, pulling it toward the tibia in the lower leg and causing the knee to bend.
Confidence votes 83. The 2 Main muscles are: (1.) Gastrocnemius is the muscle on the back of your calf, as well as the (2.) soleus muscle which lies under the gastrocnemius muscle. (The tibalis anterior and peroneus longus are also calf muscles.). The two main types of muscles are voluntary muscles and involuntary muscles. An voluntary muscle is a muscle that you use and work at your own will power such as your biceps o … r quads. In involuntary muscle is a muscle that is always being uses and you can not direct it otherwise, such as the heart.
Big calves are a problem for many people. The calf muscle is made up of two major muscles -- the soleus and the gastrocnemius. Big calves can be the symptom of excess fat stored around theses muscles. Some exercises also bulk up the calf muscles to give the appearance of big calves. 
It functions to … plantarflex the ankle. The calf muscle is located on the back of the lower leg, below the knee, between the popliteal space and Achilles tendon. It is made up of two individual muscles, the gastrocnemius and soleus. 13 people found this useful. Yes, Calf muscle is a skeletal muscle. The calf muscle is called the gastrocnemius, and it is a skeletal muscle. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Common Reasons for Calf Muscle Pain or Inflammation Your calf region is the back of your leg below your knee, which is comprised of four muscles.
Answer   The 2 Main muscles are:   (1.) Gastrocnemius is the muscle on the back of your calf, as well as the (2.) soleus muscle which lies under the gastrocnemius mus … cle. (The tibalis anterior and peroneus longus are also calf muscles.)  . + 6 others found this useful. Randal H Gilger. Konstantin Zavalin. Yes, Calf muscle is a skeletal muscle. The calf muscle is called the gastrocnemius, and it is a skeletal muscle. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Common Reasons for Calf Muscle Pain or Inflammation Your calf region is the back of your leg below your knee, which is comprised of four muscles.