Because there is some risk at any level of radon exposure, homeowners may want to reduce their exposure to radon, regardless of levels. Population studies based on a survey of 14,000 homes in 19 Canadian cities in the 1970s showed no evidence of a correlation between radon levels in homes and lung cancer. It should also be mentioned that homes that experience readings of high levels of radon gas, can be rectified. There are numerous remedial actions that offer excellent solutions to sealing homes to radon gas as well as diverting or venting solutions. Costs may vary but generally range from $2500 - $5000 for remediation.
Radon is a colourless, odorless, radioactive gas that occurs naturally in the environment. It comes from the natural breakdown of uranium in soils and rocks. It seeps out of the ground, into basements and moves to other areas of a building or home. Radon gas can move through small spaces in the soil and rock upon which a house is built. It can seep into a home through dirt floors, cracks in concrete, sumps, joints, basement drains, etc. Concrete-block walls are particularly porous to radon. Radon gas exists in many areas of Ontario at different levels. Some areas of Ottawa can contain higher than acceptable levels. While one house may have safe levels, the house next door may not. Testing must be performed in order to determine the levels in a particular home.
Radon is a radioactive gas that occurs naturally when the uranium in soil and rock breaks down. It is invisible, odourless and tasteless. When radon is released from the ground into the outdoor air, it is diluted and is not a concern. The risk of cancer depends on the level of radon and how long a person is exposed to those levels. Exposure to radon and tobacco use together can significantly increase your risk of lung cancer. For example, if you are a lifelong smoker your risk of getting lung cancer is 1 in 10.
Radon is a radioactive gas that is found naturally throughout our environment. It is produced by the decay of uranium found in rocks and soil. Since radon is a gas, it can move freely through the soil enabling it to escape into the atmosphere or seep into buildings. From the data, it can be seen that there are several regions of the country where indoor radon is more prevalent. The current estimate of the percentage of Canadians living in homes above the 200 Bq/m 3 guideline, based on the completed two-year dataset, is 6.9%.
Radon is a naturally occurring radioactive gas released when uranium in soil and/or rock breaks down. Radon is invisible, odourless and tasteless. Radon does not tend to be a health issue outdoors, as atmospheric mixing dilutes the gas to low concentrations. There are two options to test buildings for radon: 1  Do-it-yourself radon test kit. 2  Can be purchased over the internet, at local hardware, home improvement, or building supply stores, or from Ottawa Public Health*. 3  The cost of testing ranges from $25 - $170. * 4 to purchase a kit from Ottawa Public Health, please call: 613-580-6744. 5  Hire a radon 6  .... Fo
When a radioactive gas, like radon, is inhaled, it naturally breaks down into radioactive particles that can be trapped in your lungs when you breathe in. This may cause damage to lung tissue, which can develop into lung cancer over the course of a lifetime. There are two options to test buildings for radon: 1  Do-it-yourself radon test kit. 2  Can be purchased over the internet, at local hardware, home improvement, or building supply stores, or from Ottawa Public Health*. 3  The cost of testing ranges from $25 - $170. * 4 to purchase a kit from Ottawa Public Health, please call: 613-580-6744. 5  Hire a radon 6  .... Fo
There is a lot of buzz in the air about frequent high radon levels in the Ottawa area. Being the nation’s capital there appears to be a larger base of awareness, thus more testing and resulting mitigations are being carried out in Ottawa and the surrounding region. Since there is no real predictor of high radon levels, the only way to know is to TEST.
There are several individuals selling electronic radon detectors in the Ottawa area which they are stating are approved or certified by the EPA. These are false statements and these units are NOT approved by any radon gas or health association. This includes the EPA, NEHA, and AARST. Radon gas exists in many areas of Ontario at different levels. Some areas of Ottawa can contain higher than acceptable levels. While one house may have safe levels, the house next door may not. Testing must be performed in order to determine the levels in a particular home.
Radon in the Home. Radon gas can move through small spaces in the soil and rock upon which a house is built. It can seep into a home through dirt floors, cracks in concrete walls and floors, sumps, joints, basement drains, under the furnace base, and jack posts if the base is buried in the floor. It should also be mentioned that homes that experience readings of high levels of radon gas, can be rectified. There are numerous remedial actions that offer excellent solutions to sealing homes to radon gas as well as diverting or venting solutions. Costs may vary but generally range from $2500 - $5000 for remediation.
Background. Radon is a colourless, odourless, radioactive gas that occurs naturally in the environment. It comes from the natural breakdown of uranium, and can be found in high concentrations where soils and rocks contain uranium, granite, shale, or phosphate. It should also be mentioned that homes that experience readings of high levels of radon gas, can be rectified. There are numerous remedial actions that offer excellent solutions to sealing homes to radon gas as well as diverting or venting solutions. Costs may vary but generally range from $2500 - $5000 for remediation.