Ochre's primary use prehistorically was as pigments--coloration for everything from rock art paintings to pottery to human tattoos. It is the earliest pigment used by humans to paint our world--perhaps as long ago as 300,000 years. Ochre is very common on archaeological sites world-wide, and it is generally assumed to be a coloring agent. The earliest possible use of ochre is nearly 300,000 years old, in the site of GnJh-03 in the Kapthurin Formation of East Africa, and at Twin Rivers in Zambia.
- Ochre: Colors of Provence. Since prehistoric times the naturally occurring colors of ochre, sienna, & umber have been brightening up the world around us, and caveman paintings done in sienna still survive today. Ochres occur in various shades and colors, generally ranging from yellow to red to brown. 
1 Red ochre, Fe 2 O 3, takes its reddish color from the mineral hematite, which is an anhydrous iron oxide. 2  Purple ochre, is identical to red ochre chemically but of a different hue caused by different light diffraction properties associated with a greater average particle size. Modern ochre pigments often are made using synthetic iron oxide. Pigments which use natural ochre pigments indicate it with the name PY-43 (Pigment yellow 43) on the label, following the Colour Index International system. Limonite, a mineraloid containing iron hydroxide, is the main ingredient of all the ochre pigments.
Brief description of Yellow ochre: Earthtones from cream to brown. Yellow ochre is a natural mineral consisting of silica and clay owing its color to an iron oxyhydroxide mineral, goethite. It is found throughout the world, in many shades, in hues from yellow to brown. The best brown ochre comes from Cyprus.
1 See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 2  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 3  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 4  Send: E-mail your color to others. 5  Print: Print your color. 6  Add to Favorites: Add your color to your Favorites folder. 1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4
Ochre and the earth pigments [edit]. Ochre is a family of earth pigments, which includes yellow ochre, red ochre, purple ochre, sienna, and umber. The major ingredient of all the ochres is iron(III) oxide-hydroxide, known as limonite, which gives them a yellow color. Modern ochre pigments often are made using synthetic iron oxide. Pigments which use natural ochre pigments indicate it with the name PY-43 (Pigment yellow 43) on the label, following the Colour Index International system. Limonite, a mineraloid containing iron hydroxide, is the main ingredient of all the ochre pigments.
1 View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 2  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 3  Send: E-mail your color to others. 4  Print: Print your color. 5  Add to Favorites: Add your color to your Favorites folder. 1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4
'Ochre' is a shade of Brown that is 83% saturated and 80% bright. For reference purposes, Ochre has the hex value #CC7722. 