Your close but no! Any speed over the speed limit can be considered reckless driving if the Law Enforcement Officer can prove that you were driving reckless, and that you were … driving without DUE REGARD to the safety of others. How much is the fine for driving 17 mph over the speed limit in Minnesota?   Answer     I got a speeding ticket for driving 15mph over in Minnesota and it was $137 so I am pretty sure it would be around $150 or more.
It is considered a Class 1 misdemeanor and not a traffic infraction. For example, Virginia code Virginia Code § 46.2-862 explicitly defines the act of speeding 20 mph or more above the posted speed limit (or at any speed greater than 80 mph) as reckless driving. – A person shall be guilty of reckless driving who drives a motor vehicle on the highways in the Commonwealth (i) at a speed of twenty miles per hour or more in excess of the applicable maximum speed limit or (ii) in excess of eighty miles per hour regardless of the applicable maximum speed limit. § 46.2-868.
Reckless driving is defined as driving upon a highway in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property. . . . (Veh C 23103.) That could happen at any speed, but a mere citation for speed alone would not support a reckless driving charge. 
Share this conversation. Expert: Law Educator, Esq. replied 3 years ago. Under Texas law, reckless driving can be based on driving too fast for the road and traffic conditions at the time. Texas charges reckless driving for anyone who is doing 20 mph or more over the speed limit. It is a class I misdemeanor punishable by up to 1 year in jail and up to a $2500 fine. 
Is it also considered reckless driving to exceed the speed limit by 20 mph or more. Therefore, if you are driving 75 mph in a 55 mph speed zone, then you may be charged with reckless driving. Virginia's Reckless Driving Speeding law is found at Virginia Code § 46.2-862. It states: § 46.2-862. Exceeding speed limit. An experienced attorney may be able to beat your reckless driving charges. Now that the speed limit has changed to 70 mph on many Virginia state highways, it is much more likely for someone to be charged with reckless driving as the 80 mph cut off is still in place.
To most people this is just a regular speeding ticket. To be going over 20 mph the speed limit in some states is not a serious reckless driving offense in most minds. In some areas of Virginia the interstate speed limit is now 70 mph, so you could get a reckless driving ticket for going 81 in a 70 mph zone. This code states that if you're driving at any speed over 80 mph or 20 mph or more over the speed limit in any zone, then you're considered to be reckless driving. This comes as a huge surprise for out-of-state drivers.
Officially, no state requires mandatory jail time for speeding, WalletHub said. But push far enough over the limit and you could find the charge changed to reckless driving. In Arkansas or North Carolina, for example, driving more than 15 mph over the speed limit is automatically considered reckless driving. 
This could mean that you were swerving, following too closely, speeding, or driving in any manner that showed you did not care about the safety of other people or property. Driving 30mph over the posted speed limit is considered a reckless driving charge under Tennessee law. There are a variety of other specific statutes that are explicitly in the law (such as riding a motorcycle with one wheel off the ground aka wheelie) that will get you a criminal reckless driving citation. 
The first and most shocking part of reckless driving is Virginia Code, 46.2 862. This code states that if you're driving at any speed over 80 mph or 20 mph or more over the speed limit in any zone, then you're considered to be reckless driving. This comes as a huge surprise for out-of-state drivers.
A person shall be guilty of reckless driving who drives a motor vehicle on the highways in the Commonwealth (i) at a speed of twenty miles per hour or more in excess of the applicable maximum speed limit or (ii) in excess of eighty miles per hour regardless of the applicable maximum speed limit. This is the reckless driving by speed provision, which unlike the reckless driving general rule does not require a showing of “bad” driving behavior. This particular statute was recently changed to make it easier to charge reckless driving by speed, demonstrating Virginia’s “get tough” on speeders policy.