Brassica oleracea is a form of cabbage whose leaf colors range from light green through green, dark green and violet-green to violet-brown and the central leaves do not form a head.
The following types of leafy greens are described on this page. Click on any type to go directly to the portion of the page that contains the information on that leafy green.
1 Make a salad: Leafy greens such as romaine lettuce, spinach and arugula taste great when mixed in a salad with different kinds of veggies, such as tomatoes, cucumbers, carrots, and lettuce.
Edible green leaves have an abundance of nutrients. Dark green leafy vegetables are nutritional powerhouses filled with vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients. They are rich in chlorophyll, which alkalinizes the blood, and fiber, which keeps the colon healthy.
Butterhead lettuce. A type of head lettuce whose botanical name is Lactuca sativa var. heirloom. Two common types are Boston and bibb lettuce. Have small, round, loosely formed heads with soft, buttery-textured leaves ranging from pale green on the outer leaves to pale yellow-green on the inner leaves.
Dark green leafy vegetables are great sources of nutrition. Salad greens, kale and spinach are rich in vitamins A, C, E and K, and broccoli, bok choy and mustard are also rich in many of the B-vitamins.
1 Add to a soup: Try mixing leafy greens such as collard greens, kale or mustard greens into your favorite soup. 2  Stir-fry: Add chopped leafy greens or broccoli to your stir-fry. 3  Chicken or tofu stir-fried with olive or canola oil and your favorite dark green vegetable is delicious!
kale. Brassica oleracea is a form of cabbage whose leaf colors range from light green through green, dark green and violet-green to violet-brown and the central leaves do not form a head. One may differentiate between varieties according to the low, intermediate, or high length of the stem.
The green salad or garden salad is most often composed of leafy vegetables such as lettuce. varieties, spinach, arugula, or escarole. The salad leaves are cut or torn into bite-sized fragments. and tossed together (called a tossed salad), or may be placed in a predetermined arrangement. (called a composed salad).