Hepatitis is a disease caused by a virus that attacks and destroys the liver. ChaCha! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-does-hepatitis-attack ]. The half dozen viruses known as Hepatitis all attack the liver. The different viruses for the most part, aren't actually related to each other, they just all happen to attack the liver-hence 'hepatitis' - liver inflammation.
Symptoms of the disease can include excessive tiredness, a lack of appetite, and jaundice. Autoimmune hepatitis is a disease in which the body's immune system attacks liver cells. This causes the liver to become inflamed (hepatitis simply means inflammation of the liver). One job of the immune system is to protect the body from viruses, bacteria, and other living organisms. Usually, the immune system does not react against the body's own cells. However, sometimes it mistakenly attacks the cells it is supposed to protect. This response is called autoimmunity.
HOW HEPATITIS C VIRUS ATTACKS. http://www.purebrush.com/clinicals_files/hep_asp.htm. Once it gets in your bloodstream, the hepatitis C virus finds its way to the liver. There it replicates, causing inflammation as the body's immune system mounts a defensive attack. Chronic inflammation leads to scarring, or cirrhosis, the s... The half dozen viruses known as Hepatitis all attack the liver. The different viruses for the most part, aren't actually related to each other, they just all happen to attack the liver-hence 'hepatitis' - liver inflammation.
Hepatitis has many causes, including poisoning, bacterial infection and autoimmune conditions (diseases in which the body's immune system attacks healthy cells). However, it's most commonly caused by a group of viruses that attack the liver and spread from person to person. 1 Hepatitis A (HAV), a relatively mild form of acute hepatitis. 2  In rare cases, it can cause acute liver failure (usually in older people or in people who already have liver disease). 3  Hepatitis B (HBV), a form of hepatitis that often starts as acute illness but may become chronic in some people.
Chronic infection can cause scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). As the disease progresses, symptoms such as skin problems, blood disorders, and fever may appear. In the long term, hepatitis C can lead to severe liver damage, liver cancer, and liver failure. Early treatment can help delay or prevent serious damage. Learn the Effects of Hepatitis C on the Body. Hepatitis C is a viral disease that primarily causes inflammation of the liver, but the effects can be felt throughout the body. Hepatitis C causes inflammation of the liver. Over time, this leads to scarring and severe damage to the liver and its functions. Evenutally, the liver loses its ability to work at all
Hepatitis C is caused by a virus that is passed through contact with the blood of an infected person. The infection leads to inflammation of the liver. The liver processes blood and filter toxins so they don’t cause damage to your body. Learn the Effects of Hepatitis C on the Body. Hepatitis C is a viral disease that primarily causes inflammation of the liver, but the effects can be felt throughout the body. Hepatitis C causes inflammation of the liver. Over time, this leads to scarring and severe damage to the liver and its functions. Evenutally, the liver loses its ability to work at all
It occurs when the body's immune system attacks its own liver cells. Autoimmune hepatitis is a disease in which the body's immune system attacks liver cells. This causes the liver to become inflamed (hepatitis simply means inflammation of the liver). One job of the immune system is to protect the body from viruses, bacteria, and other living organisms. Usually, the immune system does not react against the body's own cells. However, sometimes it mistakenly attacks the cells it is supposed to protect. This response is called autoimmunity.
In the general sense, the term hepatitis refers to inflammation (swelling) of the liver. The liver's main job is to filter harmful chemicals and toxins from the blood. It also converts proteins and sugars into useful substances, stores them, and releases them when your body needs them. 1 Hepatitis A (HAV), a relatively mild form of acute hepatitis. 2  In rare cases, it can cause acute liver failure (usually in older people or in people who already have liver disease). 3  Hepatitis B (HBV), a form of hepatitis that often starts as acute illness but may become chronic in some people.
Hepatitis C is a virus which is carried in the bloodstream to the liver. It can then affect and damage your liver. However, this virus can also affect other parts of the body, including the digestive system, the immune system and the brain. There are six types of HCV, which all have different genes. 