Compressive strength. In the study of strength of materials, the compressive strength is the capacity of a material or structure to withstand loads tending to reduce size. It can be measured by plotting applied force against deformation in a testing machine. Compresive strengh is a key value for design of structures. Compressive strength is often measured on a universal testing machine; these range from very small table top systems to ones with over 53 MN capacity. Measurements of compressive strength are affected by the specific test method and conditions of measurement.
The compressive strength of concrete is given in terms of the characteristic compressive strength of 150 mm size cubes tested at 28 days (fck)- as per Indian Standards (ACI standards use cylinder of diameter 150 mm and height 300 mm). The characteristic strength is defined as the strength of the concrete below which not more than 5% of the test results are expected to fall. This concept assumes a normal distribution of the strengths of the samples of concrete. Normal Distribution curve on test specimens for determining compressive strength.
The average of the values of compressive strength (mean strength) from the graph is 40 MPa. The characteristic strength (fck) is the value in the x-axis below which 5% of the total area under the curve falls. From the graph we can clearly say that 30 MPa is the characteristic strength of the given concrete mix. The characteristic strength is defined as the strength of the concrete below which not more than 5% of the test results are expected to fall. This concept assumes a normal distribution of the strengths of the samples of concrete. Normal Distribution curve on test specimens for determining compressive strength.
Compressive Strength. Compressive strength is defined as the maximum compressive load a body can bear prior to failure, divided by its cross sectional area. Ceramics typically have good tensile strengths and are used under compression e.g. concrete. Yield strength is defined as the stress at which a material changes from elastic deformation to plastic deformation. Once the this point, known as the yield point is exceeded, the materials will no longer return to its original dimensions after the removal of the stress.
The resistance of a material to breaking under compression. Compare with tensile strength. Example sentences. 1  The compressive strength of a material is calculated as the pounds per square inch required to rupture the specimen or deform it to a given percentage of its height. 2  They have a high compressive strength and fair resistance to erosion and scratch abrasion
Best Answer: Concrete is a structural material which consists of Portland cement, aggregate (sand and rock), and water (to make the chemical reaction called hydration occur.) Concrete can sometimes contain other substances, such as fly ash from industrial smoke stacks, which can change its properties. Usually when a batch of concrete is ordered on a job site it is specified to be of a specific compressive strength -- 4000 psi, for instance. When the concrete comes to the job site in a ready-mix truck, the contractor places some of the batch in cylinders which are 6 inches in diameter and 12 inches in height.
Compressive strength is measured on materials, components, and structures. By definition, the ultimate compressive strength of a material is that value of uniaxial compressive stress reached when the material fails completely. The compressive strength is usually obtained experimentally by means of a compressive test. Some materials fracture at their compressive strength limit; others deform irreversibly, so a given amount of deformation may be considered as the limit for compressive load. Compressive strength is a key value for design of structures.
In the study of strength of materials, the compressive strength is the capacity of a material or structure to withstand loads tending to reduce size. Compresive strengh is a key value for design of structures. Compressive strength is often measured on a universal testing machine; these range from very small table top systems to ones with over 53 MN capacity. Measurements of compressive strength are affected by the specific test method and conditions of measurement.
The compressive strength of the material would correspond to the stress at the red point shown on the curve. In a compression test, there is a linear region where the material follows Hooke's Law. Hence for this region where this time E refers to the Young's Modulus for compression. Some materials fracture at their compressive strength limit; others deform irreversibly, so a given amount of deformation may be considered as the limit for compressive load. Compressive strength is a key value for design of structures.