The Rhodesian Ridgeback is a large, muscular hound whose distinctive raised ridge of hair runs in a strip down the center of the back. This ridge is formed by whorls of hair that grow in the opposite direction of the rest of the coat.
The Rhodesian Ridgeback was developed in South Africa where the bred was used as a hunting dog for the purpose of hunting lions. The Ridgeback breed was further developed in the 1700’s through crosses with native wild dogs and immigrant dogs, but the exact ancestry of the Ridgeback breed is not known.
General Appearance. The Ridgeback represents a strong, muscular and active hound, symmetrical and balanced in outline. A mature Ridgeback is a handsome, upstanding and athletic dog, capable of great endurance with a fair (good) amount of speed.
Country/Date of Origin: South Africa/1800s. The Rhodesian Ridgeback in spite of its name, is a South African breed. It was developed by the Boer farmers in the Cape Province in the 19th Century for hunting lion that preyed upon their cattle and sheep.
Dogs 101 Rhodesian Ridgeback This is the Navy Seals of dog breeds and can keep up with a running horse for 30 miles. 04:45.
The Rhodesian Ridgeback dog breed has a personality and temperament that is naturally reserved towards strangers, but should never be aggressive or shy. Pet owners of the Rhodesian Ridgeback need to have experience training dogs, or they should enroll in professional obedience classes.
The Rhodesian ridgeback is a dog breed developed in Southern Africa, Zimbabwe. Its European forebears can be traced to the early pioneers of the Cape Colony of southern Africa, who crossed their dogs with the semi-domesticated, ridged hunting dogs of the Khoikhoi.
The Thai Ridgeback is a primitive breed that originated in Thailand and was first brought to the United States in 1994. The dogs were used in Thailand as watchdogs, to pull carts, and to hunt vermin such as rats and dangerous prey such as cobras and wild boar.
The Rhodesian Ridgeback is easy to spot among a canine crowd: He’s the one with the tiny Mohawk running down his spine. Expressive eyes reflect the sensitive spirit of this large, intelligent dog who loves to run and play.