Banks, money and foreign exchange. Greece became a full member of the European Monetary Union on the 1st of January 2001 and the Drachma became obsolete in January 2002. The Greek currency is now the Euro. There are plenty of banks in the cities and changing money is not a problem. You can also change money (at quite a good rate) at post-offices. In smaller places you will probably have to change your foreign currency in tourist shops.
Cretan restaurants are used to serving foreigners and generally accept most major credit cards. However, Cretans themselves generally pay in cash (the official currency of Greece is the euro). Since the euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates, be sure to check what the current exchange rate is before you go. 
Crete is a region (island) of Greece, as such the Euro (€) is the currency since 2002. 
Currency of Crete. The Grecian currency is the Euro, which is divided into 100 cents. Coins some in denominations of 2 and 1 euros and 50, 20, 10, 5, 2 and 1 cents, while banknotes are issued in values of 500, 200, 100, 50, 20, 10 and 5 Euro. Check out more Travel Tips ».
Currency. Greece's monetary unit is the Euro. No other currency is accepted and it is best to exchange dollars or other currency at a bank. The exchange rates are all the same throughout the country and you exchange money at a bank or official exchange shop where you will get the best running rates. Most credit cards charge a fee (about 3%) for currency exchange, which means that every time you use your credit card in Greece (to pay in Euro) you add this fee to the price of goods and services. Check with your credit cart company before you go to see what their policy is.
NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code. This website shall not be liable for any losses or damages incurred in connection with this site. SHARE | BOOKMARK.
Always have some cash with you if you travel in some remote islands as even if there is one single ATM, it might be out of money. Greece is part of the European Union and Greece money currency is Euro. (Euro replaced Drachma in 2002). The euro banknotes come in: 500, 200, 100, 50, 20, 10, 5. The are coins of 2 and 1 Euros and 50, 20, 10, 5, 2 and 1 cents of euro. 
Greece once had its own currency, the Drachma. On 1 January 2002 this was replaced by the the Monopoly-money look-alike Euro, which is now in use in many European countries (some exceptions are Great Britain, Sweden, Switzerland and the most recent member countries of that great bureaucratic entity the EU). Travellers cheques in the world's major currencies can be changed at all banks and larger hotels. ATM / Cash Machines. Cash can be obtained from credit and debit cards at most banks (the majority work with Visa associated cards, far fewer with Mastercard).
A closed mind is like a closed book; just a block of wood, anyone for Tea :). The Euro. Crete is part of Greece, so they use the same currency as the rest of Greece. They switched to Euros just like the rest of the European Union, but before that they used Drachmas. Any Canadian bank will buy or sell US bills to or from members of the general public, in denominations as low as one dollar. You will usually get your best exchange rate at a … Canadian bank. The major US credit cards, such as Visa, Mastercard and American Express, are accepted in most Canadian businesses.