If your gas dryer tumbles but no heat, it could be because of a clogged vent or internal ductwork. Your dryer may have an automatic cycle that turns off the dryer when the clothes are dry. It does this with a special thermostat or moisture-sensing system. Normally, this is what happens during an automatic cycle: Dryer Coils. The dryer coils open the gas valve on the dryer. When they recieve full voltage from the radiant heat sensor they open the gas valve the full amount. If your dryer does ignite but still runs on forever the coils are probally failing.
1 The dryer should be on a separate 208V/240V electrical outlet. 2  An electric dryer may run with a partial voltage of 110 volts, but it will not heat unless it has 208/240V, 30 amps. 3  The circuit breaker could have partially tripped, even if it does not look as though it has. To minimize the possibility of electric shock, unplug this appliance from the power supply before attempting any maintenance or cleaning. If the electric dryer runs but does not heat, check the following: 1  The dryer should be on a separate 208V/240V electrical outlet. 2  An electric dryer may run with a partial voltage of 110 volts, but it will not heat unless it has 208/240V, 30 amps. 3  Check the circuit breaker/fuses. 4  Make sure you have the right timer selection, fabric setting, and ..
If it is an electric dryer, test to make certain you have 220 volts (electric power) at the dryer. If you are uncertain how to do this, call one of our stores and we will be happy to explain how at no charge. Electric dryers can still run if they have 110 volts available, but they will not heat. You can confirm your diagnosis by running the dryer until it will not heat, disconnect the power to the dryer, disconnect at least one of the wires on the high limit thermostat and then (using your multi-meter) check for continuity (a connection) between the two terminals on the high limit thermostat.
1 An electric dryer may run with a partial voltage of 110 volts, but it will not heat unless it has 208/240V, 30 amps. 2  The circuit breaker could have partially tripped, even if it does not look as though it has. 3  Turn off the breaker to the dryer and turn it back on to restore full power. To minimize the possibility of electric shock, unplug this appliance from the power supply before attempting any maintenance or cleaning. If the electric dryer runs but does not heat, check the following: 1  The dryer should be on a separate 208V/240V electrical outlet. 2  An electric dryer may run with a partial voltage of 110 volts, but it will not heat unless it has 208/240V, 30 amps. 3  Check the circuit breaker/fuses. 4  Make sure you have the right timer selection, fabric setting, and ..
If your dryer runs (drum turns) but the dryer is not producing heat, the most likely part that is at fault is the dryer thermal fuse. If you have a meter you can test it. If not, it is a very cheap part and can be found online for around $10 dollars. Here is our Dryer Fuse Replacement Repair Guide. 
mar. 2013. Part 2: http://youtu.be/qGpojymCRNU. How to troubleshoot your gas dryer, how to fix a gas dryer, gas dryer wont heat, fix a dryer that wont heat. My gas dryer would not heat up so I will show you the four main pieces in the rear of the dryer that should be checked using an ohms meter. It is very easy to do and ANYONE can do this. Just to get this thing checked by a technician would cost $100. 
In electric dryers, heat is generated by the heating element. The element is a coil of heating wire enclosed in a metal chamber. Electric current flowing through the coil creates heat and the air being pulled through the chamber absorbs this heat. If the element is defective then it will not heat. A dryer that’s not producing any heat or not enough heat to dry clothes can be frustrating and repairing it through a serviceman can be expensive. Even for someone who may not consider themselves handy, repairing a dryer is not a difficult process.
Dryers that tumble but do not dry are a waste of energy. If the dryer does not heat up at all, the clothes may eventually dry from being air-tumbled, but only after multiple runs of the dryer. Several issues can cause this problem. Some are easy to fix, while others may require the help of a professional. 