Think of ginger beer as ginger ale on steroids: It’s nonalcoholic but its deep and spicy ginger flavor makes it anything but innocent. Ginger beer is superb on its own and also as the backbone of two popular summer cocktails, the Moscow Mule and the Dark ‘n Stormy. Born in England and popular in the Caribbean, ginger beer has recently become de rigueur at this country’s better bars. Our top picks after the jump.
Ginger Beer Ingredients. Ginger beer is made from fresh or dried ginger, sugar and some lemon juice. These are the same basic ingredients used in ginger ale, but the ale adds seltzer water, while the beer uses water and yeast to produce gas and a carbonated effect. 
The difference? Ginger beer is actually brewed and fermented while ginger ale is essentially a carbonated beverage made from water and ginger. Ginger beer often has much more of a gingery flavor and because it's fermented, is less carbonated. My favorite brands are the unfiltered ginger beers like Seattle's fantastic Rachel's Ginger Beer-it is slightly cloudy and has an unprecedented ginger flavor. Dark and Stormy. Moscow Mule. Two favorite warm weather cocktails that rely on ginger beer as one of the main ingredients. But wait: ginger beer doesn't actually have any beer in it.
Gosling's Ginger Beer. Crabbie’s Alcoholic Ginger Beer was first crafted in 1801. Ginger beer is carbonated, sweetened beverage produced in two versions: alcoholic brewed ginger beer (which includes home-brewed) or a carbonated soft drink flavored primarily with ginger and sweetened with sugar or artificial sweeteners. Today, ginger beer is usually produced as a soft drink. Ginger beer and ginger ale as soft drinks have been moderately popular in many parts of the world since they were introduced. The similarities and differences between ginger ale and ginger beer are discussed in the history section of the ginger ale article.
Follow us on Pinterest. For a refreshment so popular, it's interesting to note how many misconceptions exist about ginger beer. The drink, which originated in the mid-1700s in England, was first known as a fermented alcoholic beverage made from sugar, ginger, water, and a starter culture known as ginger beer plant. But today, the name ginger beer is actually a misnomer, as most commercial ginger beer is a soft drink and contains no alcohol (although a few brands, such as Crabbie's, do).
The Ginger beer plant (GBP) is not what is usually considered a plant but a composite organism consisting of a fungus, the yeast Saccharomyces florentinus (formerly S. pyriformis), and the bacterium Lactobacillus hilgardii (formerly Brevibacterium vermiforme), which form a symbiotic colony of bacteria and yeast. Today, ginger beer is usually produced as a soft drink. Ginger beer and ginger ale as soft drinks have been moderately popular in many parts of the world since they were introduced. The similarities and differences between ginger ale and ginger beer are discussed in the history section of the ginger ale article.
Historically, ginger beer was popular first. In fact, it was originally popular as an alcoholic concoction of up to 11% alcohol by volume (ABV). The alcohol content came from fermenting ginger, sugar and water, and then adding a ginger-lemon extraction. Ginger is a root that is rich in lactic acid bacteria and yeasts. 
The dry version is what we recognize today as ginger ale -- it's pale in color and has a mellow ginger flavor. The Difference. The big difference between ginger beer and ginger ale is that ginger beer is brewed (fermented) but ginger ale is just carbonated water that's been flavored with ginger. 