The only way to tell if a person has had a heart attack in the past is to go to a doctor and have them do an ECG (electrocardiogram). Call your doctor and describe the symptoms you've experienced. Tell them you are concerned that you could have a heart condition. Be thorough and ask lots of questions. See a cardiologist asap and get the follow up results. The only real way to tell if you have had a heart attack is to do a double comparison blood test after the event. Start investigating your
Ideally, your doctor should screen you during regular physical exams for risk factors that can lead to a heart attack. If you're in an emergency setting for symptoms of a heart attack, you'll be asked to describe your symptoms and have your blood pressure, pulse and temperature checked. You'll be hooked up to a heart monitor and will almost immediately have tests to see if you're having a heart attack. Tests will help check if your signs and symptoms, such as chest pain, indicate a heart attack or another condition. These tests include: 1  Electrocardiogram (ECG) . 2  This first test done to diagnose a heart attack records the electrical activity of your heart via electrodes attached to your skin
You have to have a ultra sound of your heart and renal arteries done. See a cardiologist asap and get the follow up results. The only real way to tell if you have had a heart attack is to do a double comparison blood test after the event. Start investigating your condition.
Exercise stress test. In the days or weeks after your heart attack, you may also undergo a stress test. Stress tests measure how your heart and blood vessels respond to exertion. You may walk on a treadmill or pedal a stationary bike while attached to an ECG machine. You'll be hooked up to a heart monitor and will almost immediately have tests to see if you're having a heart attack. Tests will help check if your signs and symptoms, such as chest pain, indicate a heart attack or another condition. These tests include: 1  Electrocardiogram (ECG) . 2  This first test done to diagnose a heart attack records the electrical activity of your heart via electrodes attached to your skin
For example, high levels of bad cholesterol in your blood can be a sign that you're at increased risk of having a heart attack. And other substances in your blood can help your doctor determine if you have heart failure or are at risk of developing plaques in your arteries (atherosclerosis). A cholesterol test, also called a lipid panel or lipid profile, measures the fats (lipids) in your blood. The measurements can indicate your risk of having a heart attack or other heart disease. The test typically includes measurements of: 1  Total cholesterol.
Tell the doctor you want an EKG and a ck-MB test. Even if the tests are inconclusive, which they probably will be (even if there is a problem), you will have those results to compare to if you ever have a problem in the future. See a cardiologist asap and get the follow up results. The only real way to tell if you have had a heart attack is to do a double comparison blood test after the event. Start investigating your condition.
Answers. Best Answer: It's to late to have blood work up but your doctor can do a cardiac cat to look at the heart and if you have had a heart attack it will show up on this. I had symptoms of a heart attack last tuesday morning, although it could have also been a panic attack. The symptoms are almost identical. Only thing is, Im 25 so most likely it was not a heart attack, but I didnt like my doctor's diagnosis of indegestion and think I need a second opinion. Out of the blue,...
No single test can diagnose heart failure. If you have signs and symptoms of heart failure, your doctor may recommend one or more tests. Your doctor also may refer you to a cardiologist. A cardiologist is a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating heart diseases and conditions. Thus, your doctor will: 1  Find out whether you have a disease or condition that can cause heart failure, such as coronary heart disease (CHD), high blood pressure, or diabetes. 2  Rule out other causes of your symptoms. 3  Find any damage to your heart and check how well your heart pumps blood.
If you've had a heart attack or one is occurring, doctors will take immediate steps to treat your condition. You may also undergo these additional tests: 1  Chest X-ray. 2  An X-ray image of your chest allows your doctor to check the size of your heart and its blood vessels and to look for fluid in your lungs. 3  Echocardiogram. You'll be hooked up to a heart monitor and will almost immediately have tests to see if you're having a heart attack. Tests will help check if your signs and symptoms, such as chest pain, indicate a heart attack or another condition. These tests include: 1  Electrocardiogram (ECG) . 2  This first test done to diagnose a heart attack records the electrical activity of your heart via electrodes attached to your skin