The mothers are cocker spaniels and range in weight from 15-20 lbs. The males are miniature poodles with a weight between 12-15 lbs. Your full grown Cockapoo puppy should weigh between15-22 lbs. and have a back height of around 10-14 inches. Our Cockapoo's vary in color from white, buff, black, brown and tan, or a any combination of these colors. The Cockapoo's relatively dirt resistant, and water repellent coat can have several different hair types. A first-generation Cockapoo (that is, one that has not been bred with any other breed) is a cross between a pure bred Cocker Spaniel and a Miniature Poodle, hence the name Cocka (for Cocker Spaniel) Poo (for Poodle).
This Site Might Help You. RE: cockapoo? weight when fully grown? how much will this dog weigh when fully grown? its a cocker spaniel mix, but its 2 lbs at 2 months old so im guessing its mixed w/ a toy poodle. pleez tell me how much it will weigh full grown and if u kno wat its mixed with. heres the link: ... Add your answer. Cockapoo? weight when fully grown? how much will this dog weigh when fully grown? its a cocker spaniel mix, but its 2 lbs at 2 months old so im guessing its mixed w/ a toy poodle.
Around 20 pounds. I have a cockapoo and she is 3 and she weighs about 22 pounds. A (53) 12 year old girl should weigh between 100 to 105 pounds. That's the normal healthy weight. If you weigh just a few more pounds you should be health and okay still. ….
Report Abuse. Hmmm...A cockapoo is a mix between a cocker spaniel and a poodle... Cocker spaniels can weigh 18-35 lbs Poodles can be teacup/toy/miniature/standard...anywhere from 4 lbs to 70 lbs... So, take a guess at what weight it should be. The CKC does not recognize mixed breeds. 
1 The Toy Cockapoo can reach 10 inches in height but has a sturdier build, the bigger ones tipping the scales at just under 12 pounds. 2  The Miniature Cockapoo weighs 13 to 18 pounds and ranges between 11 and 14 inches high. 3  The Standard or Maxi Cockapoo should weigh more than 19 pounds and be at least 15 inches in height. An adorable small dog with the personality of a big clown, the Cockapoo is the first of the designer dogs (not a pure dog breed), dating back to the 1960s rather than to just a few years ago.
Weight. Cockapoos come in a variety of sizes. The Teacup Toy should weigh less than 6 pounds, while the Toy Cockapoo should weigh below 12 pounds. Mini Cockapoos must weigh between 13 and 18 pounds and the largest of Cockapoos should weigh over 19 pounds. Cockapoo. Height:10-15 inchesWeight:6-20 poundsLifespan:10-12 yearsGroup:Not ApplicableBest suited for:Families with children, singles and seniors, apartments, houses with/without yardsTemperament:Sweet, loving, playful, affectionateComparable Breed:Cocker Spaniel, Poodle.