Gout is a form of (usually) acute arthritis that has a known cause, namely the buildup crystalline uric acid deposits in the blood and joints. These crystals cause an inflammatory response, often in a big toe. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease in which your own immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissue, causing inflammation that damages your joints. On the other hand, gout results from deposits of needle-like crystals of uric acid in connective tissue, joint spaces, or both.
Gout is a type of arthritis, that is the result of uric acid crystals being deposited deposited in the joints. The body reaction to this is painful inflamation. It generaly affects one joint at a time, especially the joint of the big toe. Confidence votes 86.8K. Gout is a form of arthritis that is caused by the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints, osteoarthritis is a form of arthritis where joints are damaged as a result of wear and tear or trauma.
Summary: 1. There is no difference between arthritis and gouty arthritis. Arthritis is the umbrella of this joint disease while gout is a type or form of this disease. 2. Arthritis can be diagnosed depending on the type or form of arthritis while gout can be diagnosed through a serum blood test. 3. 
In this article. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints. It usually affects one joint at a time, although it can be in several joints at once. A. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints.
Arthritis and Gout. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints. It usually affects one joint at a time, although it can be in several joints at once. A. Gout is a form of arthritis -- an inflammation of the joints -- that causes sudden, severe attacks of pain, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints.
Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that is different from say osteoarthritis which is a disease that is the result of wear and tear on the joint's Gout is another type of arthritis where an over abundance of uric acid in the body can cause severe pain to its victims. Confidence votes 86.8K. Gout is a form of arthritis that is caused by the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints, osteoarthritis is a form of arthritis where joints are damaged as a result of wear and tear or trauma.
At first glance, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and gout seem almost interchangeable. Both diseases cause redness, swelling, and pain in the joints. Both can cause serious disability and disrupt your quality of life. However, that’s about where the similarities between the two diseases end. Gout is an intensely painful type of arthritis that occurs mainly in the joints of the big toe, though it can also attack the heel and ankle. Rarely, it’s been known to attack other joints in the body. Gout has been associated with an overabundance of rich food and drink since ancient times