You’re used to always doing something, and eating is doing something, so you eat. Things you can do instead of eating to relieve this boredom are to stretch, take a short walk, call or send an email to a friend you haven’t spoken with for a while, play a game or write in a journal. b) Chew gum. c) Brush your teeth. In this article I’m going to expand on the benefits of going to bed a little hungry. Anyone who’s read my columns knows I eschew weight loss “miracles” and “magic,” but the trick of going to bed hungry is not that well known, especially when you consider how powerful it is as a tool for weight loss.
The nagging feeling of a constant hunger can be frustrating when you are trying to manage a healthy weight. While that feeling of always being hungry and the inability to stop eating does not necessarily point to something chronic, this increase in appetite may point to a number of diseases. 
You can add this to anything you eat or as a snack. It's all veges. When I'm hungry-I tend to bulk up on the veges. I also like the good old fashioned Weight Watchers shakes from 40 years ago. I'm trying to reduce intake but am ALWAYS hungry. My meals are very healthy but snacks hadn't been, and the changes I'm making causes the hunger to hit every 2 hours.
Best Answer: sigh... all these people are just telling you to not eat, except for the guy above me... eating is not a bad thing and I recommend that you do eat. you said you were a teenager and the reason your feeling hungry all the time is because your body is maturing. Right now it is completely normal to be feeling hungry all the time. Im not really a fat kid but im hoping to get rid of some of the excess fat i have on my body but its so hard. Because im a teenager my hormones and all the energy i use up just make me hungry alllll the time! I go to the gym 2-3 times a week and do circuit training every friday, this has helped my fitness but i...
For years, I have tried to lose weight but can't due to the fact that I am ALWAYS hungry. Yes, I know when you diet, its to be expected that you are going to be hungry, but I can't diet because if I don't eat every three hours or so, I'm absolutely starving. It doesn't matter what I ate or how much. Fatty or healthy. I just never stop eating. I eat and eat and eat and I'm making myself depressed, because I know the cause of all my weight gain (30 pounds in the last 4 months) is due to my over eating, but I just can't stop. I've tried diet pill. Hoodia did nothing for me, and that's supposedly the magic make you not hungry pill.
Fill Up on Fiber. Fiber plays an especially important role in weight loss for several reasons. Foods that are rich in fiber take longer to chew and swallow, so your stomach may be able to send “full” signals to your brain before you’ve eaten as many calories as you would otherwise. Fiber also blocks some digestion of fats and proteins, meaning that you might not absorb as many calories from a fiber-rich meal.
Re: Can't lose weight, always hungry. Regarding your hunger, your post caught my attention because you said when you diet it is expected that you are going to hungry. Actually, the opposite is true. One of the things that I fought and resisted was the concept of eating multiple meals a day. I just never stop eating. I eat and eat and eat and I'm making myself depressed, because I know the cause of all my weight gain (30 pounds in the last 4 months) is due to my over eating, but I just can't stop. I've tried diet pill. Hoodia did nothing for me, and that's supposedly the magic make you not hungry pill.
Re: Can't lose weight, always hungry. hi, sounds like your depressed, dieting and loseing weight is not eazy for any of us, its a change in your life style you need to make and adjust to it. I recommend you go see your Dr and tell him/her your concerns of over eating and that you stay hungry all the time. I just never stop eating. I eat and eat and eat and I'm making myself depressed, because I know the cause of all my weight gain (30 pounds in the last 4 months) is due to my over eating, but I just can't stop. I've tried diet pill. Hoodia did nothing for me, and that's supposedly the magic make you not hungry pill.
You may have to make other sacrifices, however, such as regularly exercising or sticking to natural, low-calorie foods. If you have an appetite that can’t seem to be satisfied, adding more of certain nutrients into your diet may help you get more mileage for your calories. Foods that are rich in fiber take longer to chew and swallow, so your stomach may be able to send “full” signals to your brain before you’ve eaten as many calories as you would otherwise. Fiber also blocks some digestion of fats and proteins, meaning that you might not absorb as many calories from a fiber-rich meal.