Shape. The shape of the shell looks like a cone, hence the name cone snail. One predator of cone snails is crabs who use their claws to pry open snail shells. Their cone shape makes it hard for the crabs claws to grasp onto the shell long enough to pry it open
Physical Characteristics. All cone snails are wide at one end and narrow at the base (the typical “cone” shape). All have spires, (whorls above the body whorl) of varying heights at the wide end. A whorl is a full turn of the shell. Shell bodies (whorls) can be dull to very shiny, smooth to lined and bumpy. Cone snail venom is very complicated chemically, varying widely in its makeup from species to species, whether a piscovore, the most toxic, or a vermivore, the least toxic; and with each individual sting or attack. Cone snails are among the most toxic creatures on earth.
Physical Characteristics. The cone snail has a siphon tube on top of his head, which serves as a nose, detecting prey that's close by. The proboscis is a flexible tube that's twice as long as his body, and it delivers venom produced by a gland inside the snail's body. All cone snail shells are cone-shaped, but they're found in a wide variety of colors, patterns and designs. They can be large or small, slender or broad. The shell's top can be flat, round or pointed, and the shoulder can be rounded, sloped or squared. The texture varies from smooth to corded, grooved or knobby.
Cone Snail Shells. All cone snail shells are cone-shaped, but they're found in a wide variety of colors, patterns and designs. They can be large or small, slender or broad. The shell's top can be flat, round or pointed, and the shoulder can be rounded, sloped or squared. The texture varies from smooth to corded, grooved or knobby.
The shells of Conus species vary in size. The shells are shaped more or less like the geometric shape known as a cone, as one might expect from the popular and scientific name. The shell is many-whorled and in the form of an inverted cone, the anterior end being the narrow end. The sting of small cones is no worse than a bee sting, but the sting of a few of the larger species of tropical cone snails can be serious, occasionally even fatal to humans. Cone snail venom is showing great promise as a source of new, medically important substances.
Description. Nearly all of the 500-600 species have a distinctively similar shape. Characteristic features are: a flat top, conical shell; and, a long slit-like aperture lip extending from a very short siphonal opening to nearly the top. Some species have moderate spires, although generally similar. The shell may be smooth or spirally ornamented, and the patterns and colors are extraordinarily varied.
Conus is a large genus of small to large predatory sea snails, marine gastropod molluscs, with the common names of cone snails, cone shells or cones. Geologically speaking, fossils of the genus are known from the Eocene to the Holocene periods. Conus species have shells that are shaped more or less like geometric cones. Many species have colorful patterning on the shell surface. The sting of small cones is no worse than a bee sting, but the sting of a few of the larger species of tropical cone snails can be serious, occasionally even fatal to humans. Cone snail venom is showing great promise as a source of new, medically important substances.
Great Barrier Reef-Coneshell Facts. Cone Shells Species - 80 Species in Australia Description They have either a very thin or thick colourful cone shaped shell of varying stripes or speckled appearance. These shells can be very attractive and because of this, may be picked up by the unwary, especially children. 
These are a type of marine snail belonging to the genus Conus. In Linnean classification, they fall into the phylum of Mollusca and the class Gastropoda. This is where they belong on the “tree of life” (a simplified version is shown below). Introduction to Cone Snails Like garden snails, they have a shell. Its shape, as the name indicates, is cone-like. Like all gastropods, the snail propels itself on the floor of the ocean with its muscular foot, seen in the picture above. These snails are of particular interest to researchers because of the variety of venom they contain. They also have a novel system of venom delivery.