That said-ebay rules are that the buyer pays return shipping. They can't force a seller to reimburse a buyer for return shipping. They might reimburse you directly (meaning ebay pays you) but I've never heard of an example of that either. Actually the buyer is responsible for return shipping. Sucks when the seller makes a mistake and isn't on the up and up but it's a risk that comes with the convenience of buying on ebay.
When the buyer is responsible for return shipping charges, we charge the buyer's PayPal account. If you used calculated shipping or printed shipping labels from eBay or PayPal to send the item, we use this package weight to determine return shipping charges for the buyer. Replacements. If you're registered on eBay.com, and you have inventory available, you may want to offer a buyer who is returning an item the option of getting a replacement, instead of a refund. When your buyer initiates a return for a replacement, we guide you through the process step by step.
If you want your buyers to be able to return an item you're listing, specify in the listing that you accept returns. If you're using the quick listing tool and you specify in the listing that you accept returns, you'll see the default return policy of 14 days with money back, buyer pays return shipping. Replacements. If you're registered on eBay.com, and you have inventory available, you may want to offer a buyer who is returning an item the option of getting a replacement, instead of a refund. When your buyer initiates a return for a replacement, we guide you through the process step by step.
You can return some items you purchased on eBay, depending on the seller's return policy. If you used same day delivery or free in-store pickup when you purchased your item and the seller accepts returns, return the item directly to the store where you purchased it. Here's what to expect when you need to return an item. Ship the item back to the seller within 5 business days of requesting the return when returning an item for a refund. Ship the item back to the seller within 5 business days of requesting the return when returning an item for a replacement.
When the item isn't as described: If a buyer returns an item because it's not as described in the listing, arrives damaged, or is missing parts, then your refund to the buyer is: In these situations, you're required to pay for the return shipping charges and you can't charge a restocking fee. Replacements. If you're registered on eBay.com, and you have inventory available, you may want to offer a buyer who is returning an item the option of getting a replacement, instead of a refund. When your buyer initiates a return for a replacement, we guide you through the process step by step.
Big question. Although it is not eBay policy for a seller to pay for return shipping, when item is not as described, it really should be. Its not the buyers fault that seller did not use full discloser or correct description. Buyers should not have to pay for return shipping. They should not be punished for no fault of their own. If the return policy says Buyer pays return shipping then don't buy it. You will be looking a long time though for a seller who volunteers to pay return shipping in their listing. I would never advertise that i will reimburse for return shipping but i will if i am at fault.
Who pays for return postage costs. If the item was not as described, the seller is responsible for paying return postage costs. If a buyer changes their mind about a purchase and wants to return it, they may be required to pay the postage costs depending on the seller's return policy. Sellers can provide a return postage address and additional return postage information for the buyer in My eBay. When you're responsible for return postage charges, we charge your PayPal account if you send the item using our postage label.
Ebay will refund the money including the return shipping and collect from the seller, or ebay will pay it through buyer protection, only when the item is not as described. Actually the buyer is responsible for return shipping. Sucks when the seller makes a mistake and isn't on the up and up but it's a risk that comes with the convenience of buying on ebay.
Either you or the seller is responsible for return shipping charges, depending on the seller's return policy and the reason for the return. In most cases, sellers require that buyers pay for return shipping, but some sellers offer free return shipping—check the Return policy section of the listing. Ship the item back to the seller within 5 business days of requesting the return when returning an item for a refund. Ship the item back to the seller within 5 business days of requesting the return when returning an item for a replacement.
Here's what we found for return shipping [ Previouspage ]. In most cases, the buyer pays shipping when returning an item to a seller. There is an exception however. Sellers pay return shipping if an item doesn't match the listing description and the managed return process is used. 