Non-communicating, or obstructive, hydrocephalus is caused when there is an obstruction in the flow of CSF within the ventricular system of the brain. Hydrocephalus is often associated with Dandy-Walker syndrome, neural tube defects, and spinal bifida. Hydrocephalus is considered congenital when its origin can be traced to a birth defect or brain malformation that causes an increased resistance to the drainage of CSF. A variety of factors can cause congenital hydrocephalus.
Hydrocephalus is a condition in which the primary characteristic is excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) -- the clear fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. This excessive accumulation results in an abnormal dilation of the spaces in the brain called ventricles. 
Communicating hydrocephalus, also known as non-obstructive hydrocephalus, is caused by impaired cerebrospinal fluid reabsorption in the absence of any CSF-flow obstruction between the ventricles and subarachnoid space. Hydrocephalus is usually due to blockage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow in the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space over the brain. In a person without hydrocephalus, CSF continuously circulates through the brain, its ventricles and the spinal cord and is continuously drained away into the circulatory system.
In non-communicating hydrocephalus, the CSF in the ventricles can not reach the subarachnoid space. This results from obstruction of interventricular foramina, cerebral aqueduct, or the outflow foramens of the fourth ventricle (median and lateral apertures). The most common obstruction is in the cerebral aqueduct. Hydrocephalus is usually due to blockage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow in the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space over the brain. In a person without hydrocephalus, CSF continuously circulates through the brain, its ventricles and the spinal cord and is continuously drained away into the circulatory system.
The term hydrocephalus is derived from the Greek words hydro meaning water and cephalus meaning head. As the name implies, it is a condition in which the primary characteristic is excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain. Although hydrocephalus was once known as water on the brain, the water is actually cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) — a clear fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. The balance between production and absorption of CSF is critically important. Because CSF is made continuously, medical conditions that block its normal flow or absorption will result in an over-accumulation of CSF. The resulting pressure of the fluid against brain tissue is what causes hydrocephalus.
The term hydrocephalus is derived from the Greek words hydro meaning water and cephalus meaning head. As the name implies, it is a condition in which the primary characteristic is excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain. Although hydrocephalus was once known as water on the brain, the water is actually cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)--a clear fluid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. The excessive accumulation of CSF results in an abnormal widening of spaces in the brain called ventricles. The balance between production and absorption of CSF is critically important. Because CSF is made continuously, medical conditions that block its normal flow or absorption will result in an over-accumulation of CSF. The resulting pressure of the fluid against brain tissue is what causes hydrocephalus.
Two types of hydrocephalus are commonly described non-communicating hydrocephalus and communicating hydrocephalus, although there is evidence that communicating forms can lead to obstruction of CSF flow in many instances. Hydrocephalus is usually due to blockage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow in the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space over the brain. In a person without hydrocephalus, CSF continuously circulates through the brain, its ventricles and the spinal cord and is continuously drained away into the circulatory system.
In communicating hydrocephalus, the obstruction of CSF flow is in the subarachnoid space from prior bleeding or meningitis. This causes thickening of the arachnoid leading to blockage of the return-flow channels. Hydrocephalus is usually due to blockage of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) outflow in the ventricles or in the subarachnoid space over the brain. In a person without hydrocephalus, CSF continuously circulates through the brain, its ventricles and the spinal cord and is continuously drained away into the circulatory system.
Communicating hydrocephalus (also called non-obstructive hydrocephalus) is a form of hydrocephalus which does not arise from a visible blockage in the flow of cerebrospinal fluid. Hydrocephalus can be caused by some visible (on brain scans) obstruction of the normal flow this fluid. This obstruction may be a congenital or acquired scarring in some part of the ventricular system or it can be from a mass such as a brain tumor which blocks the normal flow of fluid.
Hydrocephalus is a condition characterized by abnormal flow and/or re-absorption of the cerebrospinal fluid, the water-like liquid that surrounds the brain and spinal cord and fills the open spaces within the brain, the ventricles. Hydrocephalus can be caused by some visible (on brain scans) obstruction of the normal flow this fluid. This obstruction may be a congenital or acquired scarring in some part of the ventricular system or it can be from a mass such as a brain tumor which blocks the normal flow of fluid.