The first overhead digit of a UPC version A symbol is a number related to the type of product while an EAN symbol uses the first two characters to designate the country of the EAN International organization issuing the number. UPC is in fact a subset of the more general EAN code. UPC version D is a variable message length version of UPC. The symbol must contain at least 12 digits. The first digit is a product type code. This is followed by 10 information carrying digits.
Along with the related EAN barcode, the UPC is the barcode mainly used for scanning of trade items at the point of sale, per GS1 specifications. UPC data structures are a component of GTINs (Global Trade Item Numbers). Some retailers (clothing, furniture) do not use the GS1 System (other bar code symbologies, other article number systems). Other retailers use the EAN/UPC bar code symbology but without using a GTIN (for products brands sold at such retailers only).
Before you buy a barcode, we have written this tutorial to help you understand the differences between UPC Barcodes and EAN Barcodes. Below are both an EAN barcode and a UPC Barcode. The EAN contains a 13 digit number and the UPC contains a 12 digit number. EAN = 0012345678905. UPC = (0)012345678905 or 012345678905. The GS1, the original source for barcodes has created the confusion between UPC (Universal Product Codes) and EAN (European Article Numbers also called International Article Numbers). The UPC-A barcode was the original format for product barcodes. 
If the first digit is zero, all digits in the first group of six are encoded using the patterns used for UPC, therefore, a UPC barcode is also an EAN-13 barcode with the first digit set to zero. Note: Entries in the R-column are bitwise complements (logical operator: negation) of the respective entries in the L-column. To encode an EAN-13 barcode, the digits are first split into 3 groups; the first digit, the first group of 6 and the last group of 6.
For example a UPC-E barcode with the number 654321 would expand to the UPC-A 065100004327 or 165100004324, depending on the parity pattern of the encoded digits, as described next. UPC-E check digits are calculated using this expanded string in the same way as used by UPC-A. Some retailers (clothing, furniture) do not use the GS1 System (other bar code symbologies, other article number systems). Other retailers use the EAN/UPC bar code symbology but without using a GTIN (for products brands sold at such retailers only).
NOTE: In reality, an UPC-A symbol is an EAN-13 symbol with the first number system digit set to 0. For example, take the UPC-A code 075678164125. This same code, expressed as an EAN-13 symbol, would be 0075678164125. As you can see, we just slapped a leading 0 in front. Compare the original UPC-A symbol (top) to the EAN-13 symbol (bottom): At first glance, the two bar codes look different. ENCODING EAN-13 (AND UPC-A) The encoding for EAN-13 (and UPC-A) bar codes is relatively straight-forward. To encode a value as an EAN-13 bar code, the checksum digit must first be calculated and the entire bar code, including check digit, may then be encoded as a sequence of bars and spaces.
EAN/UPC barcodes. Instantly-recognisable, EAN/UPC barcodes are printed on virtually every consumer product in the world. They are the longest-established and most widely-used of all GS1 barcodes. The EAN/UPC barcode family has transformed the world of retail. 
The Universal Product Code (UPC) is a barcode symbology (i.e., a specific type of barcode) that is widely used in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and in other countries for tracking trade items in stores. Some retailers (clothing, furniture) do not use the GS1 System (other bar code symbologies, other article number systems). Other retailers use the EAN/UPC bar code symbology but without using a GTIN (for products brands sold at such retailers only).
UPC version A is the basic version of UPC and is usually the version seen on grocery store items. The symbology is used to encode the 10 digit Universal Product Code. An eleventh digit indicates the type of product, and a twelfth digit is a modulo check digit. UPC version D is a variable message length version of UPC. The symbol must contain at least 12 digits. The first digit is a product type code. This is followed by 10 information carrying digits.
The EAN-13 barcode is defined by the standards organization GS1. The 13 digits in the EAN-13 barcode are grouped as follows: 1  The left group: Digits 2-7. 2  The left group also encodes digit 1, through a scheme of odd and even parity. To encode an EAN-13 barcode, the digits are first split into 3 groups; the first digit, the first group of 6 and the last group of 6.