Since Woodstock was the peak of Counterculture, it was also the peak of LSD use. After Woodstock, hippies still used LSD heavily. However, as the movement drew to a close, the use of the drug pietered out sharply. Today LSD is not commonly used and the last FDA-approved study done with LSD took place in the 1980s. Though people still protested, had orgies, and mandated Free Love, there was a lack of urgency in their fight. It was as if Woodstock was the common goal that legions of hippies had worked towards, and when it was over they felt fufilled.
I’d hoped we could.”. As Michael Lang, one of the founder’s of Woodstock said in his book The Road To Woodstock…. “For me, Woodstock was a test of whether people of our generation really believed in one another and the world we were struggling to create. Woodstock was important to so many of us because it helped us see that we weren’t alone in our feelings. When we saw the crowd and felt the sharing and kindness that was all around us, we knew we were on to something. It was real.
#5. If there's one thing hippies hate, it's war. If there are two things hippies hate, they are war and doing things for profit. If we move the discussion up to three things, they would be war, money and 1980s Latin sensations Menudo, but we don't have time to get into that. If only there was time
Woodstock was a spectacular event that made real all the things that hippies believed in--peace, music, harmonious living, and an abundance of acid. Hippies might have had Greenwich in New York and the Haight-Ashbury in California, but Woodstock was the one place where hippies could come together and feel united. Though people still protested, had orgies, and mandated Free Love, there was a lack of urgency in their fight. It was as if Woodstock was the common goal that legions of hippies had worked towards, and when it was over they felt fufilled.
These were the people, that naturally, were most linked with being a hippie. Even with the protest of the establishment, music festivals flourished and the movement grew. Then in August 1969 there was a festival that changed the world. Half a million hippies joined together to make history. Woodstock was probably the high point of the hippie movement
Woodstock's Effect on Counterculture. Though the Vietnam War continued on and the role of women continued to be trivialized, the Counterculture movement began to disintegrate after Woodstock. Though people still protested, had orgies, and mandated Free Love, there was a lack of urgency in their fight. It was as if Woodstock was the common goal that legions of hippies had worked towards, and when it was over they felt fufilled.
The first of many things to go wrong with the Woodstock Festival was the location. No matter how the young men and their lawyers spun it, the citizens of Wallkill did not want a bunch of drugged-out hippies descending on their town. The Woodstock Festival was a three-day concert (which rolled into a fourth day) that involved lots of sex, drugs, and rock 'n roll-plus a lot of mud. The Woodstock Music Festival of 1969 has become an icon of the 1960s hippie counterculture. Dates: August 15-18, 1969. Location: Max Yasgur's dairy farm in the town of Bethel (outside of White Lake, New York). Also Known As: Woodstock Music Festival; An Aquarian Exposition: Three Days of Peace and Music