The IATA DGR 57th Edition is AVAILABLE. Order now. The safety of many depends on the strength of the supply chain. Dangerous Goods surround us everyday, everywhere. Be a strong link, and apply the IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations. The IATA DGR is THE trusted source to help you prepare and document dangerous shipments.
Introduction to DOT Shipping Labels. State and Federal regulations require that you label hazardous material containers before shipping. On-demand DOT labeling can mean that you only need to stock just one or two blanks, not waste money on dozens of preprinted label designs. There is much less risk that your inventory of label blanks become obsolete. Consult your Subsidiary Hazard labels table and your labeling distributor for the latest regulations.
This rule is issued pursuant to section 6(b) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (the Act) and in accordance with section 29 of Public Law 101-615, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990 (HMTUSA).
For packages with a value over $50, additional insurance can be purchased to cover the balance. Priority Mail Express™ covers up to $100 of package value. For packages with a value over $10
In studying the changes made over the last 20 years, you see a number of important trends for shipping labels: 1  Regulations have been consolidated. 2  Labels have become international. 3  More information is now on the label. 4  Labels integrate with shipping manifests and MSDS.
The labels also must be placed in an area where tape used to seal the container closed will not cover the barcode or other shipping information. The guidelines also recommend placing the label in a position where the barcode is more than 1 1/4 inches from the natural edge of the container, where possible.
HazMat warnig labels changed only slightly until the 1970's. Then, prodded by an unfortunate and well publicized series of transportation accidents in the 1970's, Congress passed the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act in 1975.