The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 is a U.S. federal law that governs the role of the Congress in the U.S. budget process. The Act created the Congressional Budget Office. 
The Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 (Pub.L. 93–344, 88 Stat. 297, 2 U.S.C. §§ 601 – 688) is a United States federal law that governs the role of the Congress in the United States budget process. Title X of the Act, also known as the Impoundment Control Act of 1974, specifies that the President may request that Congress rescind appropriated funds.
SUMMARY: The 1974 Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act modified the role of Congress in the federal budgetary process. It created standing budget committees in both the House and the Senate, established the Congressional Budget Office, and moved the beginning of the fiscal year from July 1 to October 1. DESCRIPTION:
Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974. an act designed to reform the budgeting process by making Congress less dependent on the president's budget; established a fixed budget calendar and a budget committee in each house.
In the face of Nixon's claim to impoundment authority and his refusal to release appropriated funds, Congress in 1974 passed the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act, which reformed the congressional budget process and established rules and procedures for presidential impoundment. In general, the provisions of the act were designed to curtail the power of the president in the budget process, which had been steadily growing throughout the twentieth century. The Impoundment Control Act divides impoundments into two categories: deferrals and rescissions. In a deferral, the president asks Congress to delay the release of appropriated funds; in a Rescission, the president asks Congress to cancel the appropriation of funds altogether. Congress and the president must follow specific rules and procedures for each type of
Impoundment is an act by a President of the United States of not spending money that has been appropriated by the U.S. Congress. Thomas Jefferson was the first president to exercise the power of impoundment in 1801. The power was available to all presidents up to and including Richard Nixon, and was regarded as a power inherent to the office. The term is derived from pound, a secured holding area. The general sense of impoundment is the items held in the pound, or the process of securing them into the pound. In that sense, the President is securing the pool of allocated funds, holding them instead of allowing them to be freely spent.
Definition of IMPOUNDMENT. 1. : the act of impounding: the state of being impounded. 2. : a body of water formed by impounding. 
In effect, the requirement removed the impoundment power, since Congress is not required to vote on the rescission and, in fact, has ignored the vast majority of presidential requests. Forty-three states in the U.S. give their governors authority not to spend money allocated by the state legislature. The term is derived from pound, a secured holding area. The general sense of impoundment is the items held in the pound, or the process of securing them into the pound. In that sense, the President is securing the pool of allocated funds, holding them instead of allowing them to be freely spent.
The Impoundment Control Act of 1974 provides that the president may propose rescission of specific funds, but that rescission must be approved by both the House of Representatives and Senate within 45 days. The term is derived from pound, a secured holding area. The general sense of impoundment is the items held in the pound, or the process of securing them into the pound. In that sense, the President is securing the pool of allocated funds, holding them instead of allowing them to be freely spent.