The hyoid bone (lingual bone) (/ˈhaɪɔɪd/ ; Latin os hyoideum) is a horseshoe-shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. At rest, it lies at the level of the base of the mandible in the front and the third cervical vertebra (C3) behind. Unlike other bones, the hyoid is only distantly articulated to other bones by muscles or ligaments. The second pharyngeal arch gives rise to the lesser cornu of hyoid and the superior part of body of hyoid. The cartilage of the third pharyngeal arch forms the greater cornu of hyoid and the lower portion of the
ethmoid bone the sievelike bone that forms a roof for the nasal fossae and part of the floor of the anterior cranial fossa. See anatomic Table of Bones in the Appendices. facial b's the bones that form the skeleton of the face, including the hyoid, palatine, and zygomatic bones, the mandible, and the maxilla. 
The ethmoid bone forms part of the cranial and facial parts of the skull and is located deep in the orbit. External lamina consist of the roof plate, floor plate and paired orbital plates. The ethmoid bone is separated from the cranial cavity by the cribiform plate. The maxilla forms most of the facial part of the skull, including the lateral walls of the face, nasal cavity, oral cavity and hard palate. It also forms the ventral nasal conchae and articulates with all of the facial bones as it is the largest bone of the face.
The hyoid bone is located between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. It is also at the base of the mandible, or lower jawbone. Unlike other bones within the skeleton, the hyoid does not feature any major points of articulation (joints) with other bones. The hyoid bone can be divided into three component parts: the body of the hyoid, the greater cornua, and the lesser cornua. The body of the hyoid is centrally located, while the cornua are on both sides. The lesser cornua are small conical projections oriented upwards
The skull is the part of the skeleton that covers and protects the brain and other sense organs. The human skull is composed of 22 types of bones. These bones are separated into two categories, the bones the form the cranium and facial bones. The section of the brain that holds the brain is known as the cranium. 
In addition there are 14 facial bones which form the lower front part of the skull. Together the 22 bones that compose the skull form additional, smaller spaces besides the cranial vault, such as the cavities for the eyes, the internal ear, the nose, and the mouth. The axial skeleton is the part of the skeleton that consists of the bones of the head and trunk of a vertebrate.
Another important bone of the head and neck is the hyoid bone. The hyoid is closely associated with the skull but is a “floating bone” that does not form a joint with any other bone. 
Chapter 42: The skull and hyoid bone. The skeleton of the head and neck consists of the skull and hyoid bone and the cervical vertebrae (which have already been described). The skull is complex and learning the skull is facilitated by having one available while studying. Click here to watch a quicktime streaming video presentation on the skull. Figure 42-8 Lateral aspect of the skull. The pterion is where the parietal and frontal bones, the greater wing of the sphenoid, and the squamous part of the temporal bone approach one another.
In the human skeleton, it consists of 80 bones and is composed of eight parts; the skull bones, the ossicles of the middle ear, the hyoid bone, the rib cage, sternum and the vertebral column. The axial skeleton together with the appendicular skeleton form the complete skeleton. The axial skeleton is the part of the skeleton that consists of the bones of the head and trunk of a vertebrate.
Where the two sutures meet is called the bregma. There is a gap through the parietal bone that serves as a passageway for blood vessels and nerves, called the ... Click to read more below. One parietal bone is located on each side of the skull just behind the frontal bone. It is shaped like a curved plate and has four borders. Together, the parietal bones form the bulging sides and roof of the cranium. 