Quick Answer. Russia is on the continents of Asia and Europe, according to About.com. The European part of Russia extends from its western border with Ukraine, Belarus, Finland and other European countries to the Ural Mountains. The area of Russia east of those mountains is in Asia. Know More.
Russia is not a continent because it is located on the supercontinent of Eurasia. A continent cannot be located on another continent. However, this brings us to the issue of E … urope and Asia. Well, Europe and Asia (in addition to Africa) are all located on the same continent: Afro-Eurasia.
Russia is located on both the European and Asian continents. The continental divide is the Ural Mountains, Asia on the east and Europe on the west. Russia is partly in Europe and partly in Asia. Or to clarify (slightly) the above: Russia is in Europe while Siberia and many other states in the Russian Federation are in Asia.
Russia is not a continent because it is located on the supercontinent of Eurasia. A continent cannot be located on another continent. However, this brings us to the issue of E … urope and Asia. Well, Europe and Asia (in addition to Africa) are all located on the same continent: Afro-Eurasia.
The continents of Russia are Europe, Asia and a tiny part of North America. Russia to the West of the Ural Mts. generally belongs to Europe, and Russia to the Ea
Russia is in both Europe and Asia, spanning the continental divide marked by the Ural Mountains and covering about 17 million miles. Approximately three-quarters of Russia is in Asia, expanding east from the Ural Mountains to the Pacific Ocean.
The continental divide is the Ural Mountains, Asia on the east and Europe on the west. Russia is partly in Europe … and partly in Asia. Or to clarify (slightly) the above: Russia is in Europe while Siberia and many other states in the Russian Federation are in Asia. Basically, west of the Urals is in Europe.
A: Russia is on the continents of Asia and Europe, according to About.com. The European part of Russia extends from its western border with Ukraine, Belarus, Finland and other European countries to the Ural Mountains. The area of Russia east of those mountains is in Asia. Know More.