Education and Training. All psychologists need at least a master's degree or a doctoral degree, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The majority of forensic psychologists have doctoral degrees along with forensic-specific clinical experience. This typically involves clinical work in a law enforcement forensics lab. Psychologists are professionals who study and interpret human behavior. Forensic psychologists work with criminals by analyzing their actions to determine the mental profile and thought processes that drive them. Their work often aids in criminal investigations and tracking serial criminals.
A minor in law or other training in law is a good addition to a psychology degree. Mental health law and criminal case law expertise are especially useful. In addition, a forensic psychologist needs a good grasp of courtroom procedures so he comes across as competent, professional and believable during criminal cases. Psychologists are professionals who study and interpret human behavior. Forensic psychologists work with criminals by analyzing their actions to determine the mental profile and thought processes that drive them. Their work often aids in criminal investigations and tracking serial criminals.
While being a forensic psychologist requires plenty of education and certification, it also requires the ability to handle the information that's presented during an evaluation of a person in a criminal trial. The next qualification you'll need is a state license, which is required for all practicing psychologists. The minimum requirements you'll find in any state are 1 year of fieldwork, a degree from an accredited institution and of course, you'll have to pass the state certification exam.
Education and Certification. The first qualification you need to become a forensic psychologist is a doctorate in clinical psychology, forensic psychology or counseling. The next qualification you'll need is a state license, which is required for all practicing psychologists. The minimum requirements you'll find in any state are 1 year of fieldwork, a degree from an accredited institution and of course, you'll have to pass the state certification exam.
Education & Training. Forensic psychologists, whether working in applied or research forensic psychology, need to earn a doctoral degree in forensic psychology. To be eligible for a doctoral program, you will need to first earn a bachelor’s degree, in psychology or a related area, from an accredited institution. 
To become a qualified forensic psychologist you need to complete: 1  a British Psychological Society (BPS)-accredited degree in psychology, leading to Graduate Basis for Chartered Membership (GBC). 2  a Health and Care Professions Council (HCPC)-approved programme of training leading to registration as a forensic psychologist. To do a BPS-accredited degree you will usually need five GCSEs (A-C), plus three A levels. Check with course providers for exact entry requirements. If you are a graduate in a subject other than psychology you may be able to become eligible for GBC by completing an accredited conversion course.
Skills, interests and qualities. To become a forensic psychologist you will need to have: 1  a genuine desire to help offenders. 2  a keen interest in the cause and effect of criminal behaviour. 3  resilience, with the ability to deal with the risk of physical or verbal assault. 4  patience, empathy, honesty and integrity. To do a BPS-accredited degree you will usually need five GCSEs (A-C), plus three A levels. Check with course providers for exact entry requirements. If you are a graduate in a subject other than psychology you may be able to become eligible for GBC by completing an accredited conversion course.
A doctoral degree in forensic psychology is required for a career as a criminal psychologist. Currently, there are two types of psychology doctoral degrees: the Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Psychology and the Doctor of Clinical Psychology (Psy.D.). 