Tramadol comes in tablet form and is an opioid agonist medication. When taken as prescribed by a doctor, Tramadol offers pain relief as needed. However, when people snort Tramadol or take Tramadol to try to achieve a euphoric high, or used long-term to control pain, Tramadol can become addictive. If you’re taking Tramadol as directed by your doctor, drug addiction to Tramadol is unlikely. In general, you can get addicted to Tramadol if you take it in a manner other than normally prescribed. While normal medical use can cause addiction to Tramadol, it’s less likely.
Even though Tramadol is not a narcotic, it can still be addictive although in a unique way to other drugs. Typically what happens is an individual's tolerance builds over time, which means to get the same degree of pain relief, a greater dose is required. As most people know, true opiates such as morphine and hydrocodone are highly addictive drugs because they contain narcotic components. In comparison, Tramadol is a non-narcotic medication even though the effects it produces are similar to narcotics.
Remember, Tramadol is a synthetic opiate (opioid), with effects that are very similar to morphine and hydrocodone. What happens is that opiate receptors in the brain are bound, which in turn helps block pain signals sent from the central and reflex sympathetic nervous systems. The benefits of Tramadol over other types of medication is that it works both short-and long-term, it is well-tolerated by people of all ages, again, there are multiple delivery systems, and because it is not a narcotic, it does not need to be monitored or regulated by the United States Federal Government.
Tramadol is highly addictive. I try to warn everyone I can about it. The most I ever took was 150 mg. I thought it was a wonder drug because I have a physically demanding job and it gave me boundless energy as well as taking away most of my back pain. I was prescribed tramadol 6 weeks ago, but having read in the forum how addictive they are I am considering stopping them, although they do help with my back pain. Has anyone being given an alternative to these drugs, and if so are they effective.
Tramadol (marketed as Ultram, and as generics) is an opioid pain medication used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. When taken as an immediate-release oral formulation, the onset of pain relief usually occurs within about an hour. It has two different mechanisms. First, it binds to the μ-opioid receptor. Tramadol is marketed as a racemic mixture of both R-and S-stereoisomers. This is because the two isomers complement each other's analgesic activity. It is often combined with paracetamol (acetaminophen) as this is known to improve the efficacy of tramadol in relieving pain.
When Tramadol is used properly to manage moderate to severe pain, the drug will not cause dependence or addiction. However, there are still a lot of people complaining that they became addicted to Tramadol. Second, using Tramadol for longer periods will cause dependence on the drug. Some says that the effect is psychological. They tend to increase the dosage of the drug because of the feeling that higher dosage means lesser pain or no pain at all.
There are some misconceptions about using Tramadol. Some people classify Tramadol as a narcotic but it is not a narcotic like morphine. So there are some patients who are afraid to take this drug because of possible side effects like addiction. It only works similar to narcotic drugs but does not result to severe side effects common to narcotics medications. Second, using Tramadol for longer periods will cause dependence on the drug. Some says that the effect is psychological. They tend to increase the dosage of the drug because of the feeling that higher dosage means lesser pain or no pain at all.
Tramadol Addiction. Tramadol is a central-acting synthetic opiate agonist used similarly to codeine to treat moderate to moderately severe pain in adults. Tramadol addiction is a serious medical and social problem. The drug is available in tablet form under the name Ultram or tramadol
The truth is, tramadol can produce a morphine-or heroin-like high, and according to public health officials, it’s in the running to compete with OxyContin addiction. Thousands of tramadol overdose cases arrive at emergency medical centers every year, and hundreds more are seeking treatment for tramadol addiction. 