Medical Definition of RECOMBINATION. : the formation by the processes of crossing-over and independent assortment of new combinations of genes in progeny that did not occur in the parents. — re·com·bi·na·tion·al \-shnəl, -shə-nəl\ adjective. See recombination defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
recombination. (genetics). The occurrence of gene combinations in the progeny that differ from those of the parents as a result of independent assortment and crossing-over. The production of genetic information in which some elements of one line of descent are replaced or added to by those of another line. In recombination by crossing over crossing over,process in genetics by which the two chromosomes of a homologous pair exchange equal segments with each other. Crossing over occurs in the first division of meiosis. At that stage each chromosome has replicated into two strands called sister chromatids.....
Genetic recombination is the production of offspring with combinations of traits that differ from those found in either parent. In eukaryotes, genetic recombination during meiosis can lead to a novel set of genetic information that can be passed on from the parents to the offspring. Most recombination is naturally occurring. Genetic recombination and recombinational DNA repair also occurs in bacteria and archaea, which use asexual reproduction. Recombination can be artificially induced in laboratory (in vitro) settings, producing recombinant DNA for purposes including vaccine development.
recombination. Recombination in meiosis. Recombination is a process by which pieces of DNA are broken and recombined to produce new combinations of alleles. This recombination process creates genetic diversity at the level of genes that reflects differences in the DNA sequences of different organisms. In eukaryotic cells, which are cells with a nucleus and organelles, recombination typically occurs during meiosis. Meiosis is a form of cell division that produces gametes, or egg and sperm cells. During the first phase of meiosis, the homologous pairs of maternal and paternal chromosomes align.
V(D)J recombination in organisms with an adaptive immune system is a type of site-specific genetic recombination that helps immune cells rapidly diversify to recognize and adapt to new pathogens. Genetic recombination and recombinational DNA repair also occurs in bacteria and archaea, which use asexual reproduction. Recombination can be artificially induced in laboratory (in vitro) settings, producing recombinant DNA for purposes including vaccine development.
Recombination. Definition. noun, plural: recombinations. (1) (genetics) The process or act of exchanges of genes between chromosomes, resulting in a different genetic combination and ultimately to the formation of unique gametes with chromosomes that are different from those in parents. (2) (general) The process or act of bringing together (dissociated materials) once more. Supplement. In genetics, recombination occurs during meiosis when chromosomes exchange genes. Thus, recombination is one of the important means to promote and increase genetic diversity between generations.
Crossing over is the swapping of genetic material that occurs in the germ line. During the formation of egg and sperm cells, also known as meiosis, paired chromosomes from each parent align so that similar DNA sequences from the paired chromosomes cross over one another. The exchange of a segment of DNA between two homologous chromosomes during meiosis leading to a novel combination of genetic material in the offspring.
bacterial recombination in bacterial genetics, the process of producing a new gene by any of several processes, e.g., the sexual union of two parents, molecular crossing over between two DNA chains, or transformation. recombination. 1. the reunion, in the same or different arrangement, of formerly united elements that have been separated. 2. in genetics, the process that creates new combinations of genes by shuffling the linear order of the DNA.