There are upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons, with the cell type described above being a lower motor neuron. Upper motor neurons are cortico-spinal interneurons that arise from the motor cortex and descend to the spinal cord where they activate the lower motor neurons through synapses.
A motor neuron (or motoneuron) is a nerve cell (neuron) whose cell body is located in the spinal cord and whose fiber (axon) projects outside the spinal cord to directly or indirectly control effector organs, mainly muscles and glands. Upper motor neurons are cortico-spinal interneurons that arise from the motor cortex and descend to the spinal cord where they activate the lower motor neurons through synapses.
(May 2010). Upper motor neurons are motor neurons that originate either in the motor region of the cerebral cortex or in the brain stem and carry motor information down to the lower motor neurons. The fibers of the upper motor neurons project out of the precentral gyrus ending in the brainstem, where they will decussate (intersect) within the lower medulla oblongata to form the lateral corticospinal tract on each side of the spinal cord.
Recall that upper motor neurons project via the corticospinal tract to lower motor neurons located in the anterior horn of the spinal cord. Signs of lower motor neuron lesions include weakness, atrophy, fasciculations, and hyporeflexia (reduced reflexes). 
I. Lower and Upper Motor Neurons. Lower motor neurons are neurons that directly innervate skeletal muscle. The cell bodies of these neurons are located within the ventral horns of the spinal cord and within brainstem motor nuclei.
5.Upper motor neurons are first-order neurons whilst lower motor neurons are second-order neurons. 6.The cell bodies of the upper motor neurons are located in the cortex of the brain and the cell bodies of the lower motor neurons are located in the grey matter of the spinal cord and brain stem. The cell bodies of the lower motor neurons are located in the neuraxis, and their axons leave and synapse with the muscles in the body. On the other hand, the upper motor neurons synapse with the lower motor neurons as they are unable to leave the central nervous system.
These neurons connect the brain to the appropriate level in the spinal cord, from which point nerve signals continue to the muscles by means of the lower motor neurons. The neurotransmitter glutamate transmits the nerve impulses from upper to lower motor neurons, where it is detected by glutamatergic receptors. The fibers of the upper motor neurons project out of the precentral gyrus ending in the brainstem, where they will decussate (intersect) within the lower medulla oblongata to form the lateral corticospinal tract on each side of the spinal cord.
Lower motor neurons, or second order neurons are cranial and spinal nerves. The cell bodies of these neurons are located in the brain stem, but their axons can leave the central nervous system and synapse with the muscles of the body. In order to reach the muscles, motor commands generated in the central nervous system must travel on upper motor neurons and synapse with lower motor neurons. Upper motor neuron s (UMN) are a type of first order neuron. They are unable to leave the central nervous system.
In summary, the upper motor neurons of the left motor cortex innervate the lower motor neurons of the right body. A stroke or other lesion involving all of the corticospinal fibers from the left cerebral cortex produces weakness of the right upper and lower limbs (right hemiparesis). Lower motor neurons are neurons that directly innervate skeletal muscle. The cell bodies of these neurons are located within the ventral horns of the spinal cord and within brainstem motor nuclei.
Upper motor neuron: A neuron that starts in the motor cortex of the brain and terminates within the medulla (another part of the brain) or within the spinal cord. Damage to upper motor neurons can result in spasticity and exaggerated reflexes. There is no standard laboratory test for upper motor neuron disease. 