The ITP is written with the help of thestudent, parent, teacher, social worker or servicecoordinator and adult service provider. It spellsout what everyone needs to do in order to provide the training and services needed for asmooth ‘transition’ from school. Some words and terms you should know Goal: This tells the general direction a person is going in, like “living in an apart-ment or working in the community or attending classes at the community college.” Individual Education Program: The IEP is written for students whoreceive special education services.
Since 2005, the Interdisciplinary Training Program in the Education Sciences at the University of Wisconsin-Madison (ITP) has been helping to address the need for skilled researchers who can carry out research that will provide solid evidence about what programs will most benefit our nation’s students. 
Inclusion: Term used to describe services that place students with disabilities in general education classrooms with appropriate support services. Student may receive instruction from both a general education teacher and a special education teacher. Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP): Special education term used to describe the written plan used to address problem behavior that includes positive behavioral interventions, strategies and support. May include program modifications and supplementary aids and services.
For students with disabilities, the Individualized Transition Plan (ITP) is a part of the annual IEP (Individualized Education Program) document and contains specific information that meets legal compliance for students ages 16+. Checklist for the IEP (Individual Education Program). Part II. An example of a student’s interest could be the following: Matthew is interested in the automotive field. He enjoys working on cars and has expressed interest in owning an automotive shop someday.
Adapted Physical Education (APE): Specially designed physical education program, using accommodations designed to fit the needs of students who require developmental or corrective instruction in PE. Accommodations: Changes that allow a person with a disability to participate fully in an activity. Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP): Special education term used to describe the written plan used to address problem behavior that includes positive behavioral interventions, strategies and support. May include program modifications and supplementary aids and services.
Extended School Year Services (ESY): An extended school year is a component of special education services for students with unique needs who require services in excess of the regular academic year. Extended year often refers to summer school. Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP): Special education term used to describe the written plan used to address problem behavior that includes positive behavioral interventions, strategies and support. May include program modifications and supplementary aids and services.
Special Education seems to have a language of its own. Educators often use many of these words in conversations with parents, so, as a parent, please ask for clarification or an explanation of the meaning. Teachers, speech/language pathologists, principals, etc. will be more than happy to do so. FIE-Full Individual Assessment. This assessment is conducted by trained professionals to determine if a student has a disability and, if so, the nature and extent of the resulting need for special education and related services. IDEA-Individual with Disabilities Education Act (PL 94-142).
The Individualized Transition Plan (ITP) is a legal component of the IEP for students with disabilities. The ITP provides the specific transitional services that the school and District will provide for the student beyond high school graduation. For Matthew, the ITP goal is to study auto mechanics. slide 1 of 1. Checklist for the IEP (Individual Education Program). Part II. An example of a student’s interest could be the following: Matthew is interested in the automotive field. He enjoys working on cars and has expressed interest in owning an automotive shop someday.
It is the written plan that details the special education and related services that are to be provided to the individual student. Parents and school staff work together to develop the IEP at the ARD meeting. The IEP must be reviewed at least annually. ITP-Individual Transition Plan. FIE-Full Individual Assessment. This assessment is conducted by trained professionals to determine if a student has a disability and, if so, the nature and extent of the resulting need for special education and related services. IDEA-Individual with Disabilities Education Act (PL 94-142).
A transition plan is the section of the Individual Education Plan (IEP) that outlines transition goals and services for the student. The Individual Transition Plan (ITP) is the template for mapping out long-term adult outcomes from which annual goals and objectives are defined. 