Francesco Redi was an Italian physician who was the first to attempt to disprove the Theory of Spontaneous Generation by performing a controlled experiment. A controlled experiment is an experiment in which you change just one thing to find out the result.
Lazzaro Spallanzani was an Italian naturalist (a type of scientist) who also attempted to disprove the Theory of Spontaneous Generation, almost one hundred years after Francesco Redi's experiments.
Both Bonnet and Spallanzani accepted the preformation theory. According to their version of this theory, the germs of all living things were created by God in the beginning and were encapsulated within the first female of each species.
Spallanzani became a doctor of philosophy in 1753, and in 1757 he was ordained a priest. After that he was commonly designated l'Abate Spallanzani. His priestly offices were performed irregularly; nevertheless, even in later life he still ordained at mass.
Lazzaro Spallanzani is one of the great names in experimental physiology and the natural sciences. Although not a physician, few physicians have delivered such important contributions to medicine.
The Italian scientist Lazzaro Spallanzani (1729-1799) is probably best known for his contributions to the debunking of the theory of spontaneous generation. Yet, among his various scientific interests, Spallanzani also investigated in great detail the ability of various animals to regenerate missing body parts.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The theory for spontaneous generation refers to the idea that life can produced from nonliving things. Lazzaro Spallanzani proposed in his experiement that air was necessary for spontaneous generation.
[Lazzaro Spallanzani and his refutation of the theory of spontaneous generation]. [Article in Italian]. Mancini R, Nigro M, Ippolito G. Istituto Nazionale per le Malattie Infettive Lazzaro Spallanzani, IRCCS, Rome, Italy.
He was professor at the universities of Modena (1763–69) and Pavia (from 1769). Spallanzani studied regeneration, fertilization, and the digestive action of saliva; using heat-sterilized cultures, he performed experiments that disproved J. T. Needham's theory of spontaneous generation.