Opioids may act just like opiates in the human body, because of the similar molecules. opiate-narcotic analgesic derived from a opium poppy (natural). opioid-narcotic analgesic that is at least part synthetic, not found in nature. The terms are often used interchangeably. On the street, heroin may mean synthetic, natural, or semi-synthetic compounds. 
– cont’d. Opium. Overview. Opium is a highly addictive non-synthetic narcotic that is. extracted from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum. The opium. poppy is the key source for many narcotics, including morphine, codeine, and heroin. Legal status in the United States Opium is a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act. Most opioids are Schedule II, III, IV, or V drugs. Some drugs that are derived from opium, such as heroin, are Schedule I drugs. Common places of origin The poppy plant, Papaver somniferum, is the source of opium.
Opium is the dried paste that is secreted by the opium poppy plant. Opium contains up to 12% morphine, an alkaloid, which is frequently processed to produce heroin for the illegal drug trade. The latex paste also includes codeine and non-narcotic alkaloids such as papaverine, thebaine and noscapine. Cultivation of opium poppies for food, anaesthesia, and ritual purposes dates back to the Neolithic Age.
Opium is classified as a central-nervous depressant, containing phenanthrene alkaloids morphine, codeine, and to a lesser extent thebaine. In the United States, opium is listed as a Schedule II narcotic, outlawing sale, distribution and purchase by anyone. The latex paste also includes codeine and non-narcotic alkaloids such as papaverine, thebaine and noscapine. Cultivation of opium poppies for food, anaesthesia, and ritual purposes dates back to the Neolithic Age.
Opium. Home » Opium. Opium is a naturally occurring narcotic found in the seeds of the opium poppy plant and contains morphine. Opium can be extracted to produce heroin, an illegal drug that has a high abuse potential. The cultivation of opium poppies dates back many civilizations in an effort to provide pain relief and deep sedation. Opium contains alkaloids including morphine, codeine and thebaine. Morphine was first isolated from the opium poppy in the early 1800’s. Heroin, first synthesized in 1874, was the first semi-synthetic opiate and was legally prescribed for a time.
Opium preparation is an opioid. An opioid is sometimes called a narcotic. Opium is derived from the seed pod of a poppy plant. It works by increasing smooth muscle tone and decreasing fluid secretions in the intestines. This slows the movement of bowel matter through the intestines.
Opium – cont’d. Opium Overview Opium is a highly addictive non-synthetic narcotic that is extracted from the poppy plant, Papaver somniferum. The opium poppy is the key source for many narcotics, including morphine, codeine, and heroin. Legal status in the United States Opium is a Schedule II drug under the Controlled Substances Act. Most opioids are Schedule II, III, IV, or V drugs. Some drugs that are derived from opium, such as heroin, are Schedule I drugs. Common places of origin The poppy plant, Papaver somniferum, is the source of opium.
opiate-a narcotic drug that contains opium or an opium derivative. opium-an addictive narcotic extracted from seed capsules of the opium poppy. recreational drug-a narcotic drug that is used only occasionally and is claimed to be nonaddictive. soft drug-a drug of abuse that is considered relatively mild and not likely to cause addiction. A drug, such as morphine or heroin, that is derived from opium or an opiumlike compound, relieves pain, often induces sleep, can alter consciousness, and is potentially addictive. b. A controlled substance.
Opium (poppy tears, lachryma papaveris) is the dried latex obtained from the opium poppy (Papaver somniferum). Opium latex contains approximately 12% of the analgesic alkaloid morphine, which is processed chemically to produce heroin and other synthetic opioids for medicinal use and for the illegal drug trade. 