For instance while in most of the state you can bartend at age 18, throughout Baltimore County one has to be 21 or older to bartend. Howard County also presents different rules. One can bartend in restaurants at age 18 and above. In Howard County in class D taverns though, a bartender needs to be 21 or older. Age to Bartend in Maryland. Maryland is one of the very few states in the country that has mixed rules by local jurisdiction. Through most of the state one can bartend at age 18, but in some local jurisdictions you have to be 21.
Part 1 of 2: Becoming a Bartender. 1. Meet the requirements. You must be at least 18 years old to work as a bartender, though some states require that you be 19 or 21. Some states also require that bartenders take alcohol awareness classes prior to beginning work. Check with your city/state to clarify the specific
That’s why the age to bartend in PA is 18 while, in other places through the country, it can be 19 to 21. So, if you want to attend Bartending School and get a job working as bartender, you’re able to do so the day you turn 18. 
Report Abuse. well in about half the states in the US you only have to be 18, and in maine you can be 17 i believe. But you can go to bartending school at your age. But i think you can only work in restaurants, or someplace that serves food too. Get to know the other bartenders, owners, managers, and then in a few months drop the line that you would be willing to work for them. Start out as a barback and work your way up. Most small bars are run like families anyway. You will have to know your fellow employees well.
1 In New York the law is 18 or over to serve alcohol. 2  How much bartenders earn depends on the city and the type of establishment you are working at. 3  There is no denying that bartending is a very lucrative job. 4  In New York bartenders average $250 to $400 a shift, with some making way more than that. 
Depending on what state you live in you to need make sure of the age requirements (most states require that you are 21 years old and that's it, some want you to get a state license...etc... ) Just check the laws for your state. Get to know the other bartenders, owners, managers, and then in a few months drop the line that you would be willing to work for them. Start out as a barback and work your way up. Most small bars are run like families anyway. You will have to know your fellow employees well.
Q8. How old do you have to be to bartend? Twenty-seven states allow you to mix, serve, and sell alcohol when you're 18 years old. The other states have age requirements that range from 19-21 years old. Sometimes individual cities and townships establish their own age requirements. Below is a list of states and their age requirements to bartend. back to top.
Depending on the state you plan to tend bar in, the age minimum is a little different. In some states, an 18 year old can tend bar, while in other states you have to be 21. Here’s a quick guide to each state’s minimum age required to become a bartender: Alabama 21 Illinois 21 Montana 18 Rhode Island 18.
Best Answer: In Texas you can be a bartender or a server of alcohol at 18, however the legal drinking age is 21. Good Luck! =). Source(s): My daughter in law has been a bartender since she was 18. I am 18 years old...almost 19. I know that you have to be 19 to have your underage serving license at most resturaunts where i live (Indiana), but I didnt know what the rules were for bartending.