Mutations can also be caused by exposure to specific chemicals or radiation. These agents cause the DNA to break down. This is not necessarily unnatural  even in the most isolated and pristine environments, DNA breaks down. Nevertheless, when the cell repairs the DNA, it might not do a perfect job of the repair. 
Shown below is a type of mutation that is caused by ultraviolet radiation. In this example, the bombardment of the DNA double-helix by UV rays causes two bases to join together. This alters the structure of the DNA and can lead to permanent changes if not repaired. Different types of radiation cause different types of genetic changes. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation causes point mutations. X-rays can cause breaks in the DNA double-helix and lead to translocations, inversions and other types of chromosome damage.
Mutations, or changes in DNA, can happen in a couple of different ways. Two major causes of mutations are irradiation and chemical mutagens. Irradiation is exposure to radiation and chemical mutagens are chemicals that cause changes to DNA sequences. In this lesson, we'll learn about how radiation exposure can cause mutations and even cancer.
When ionizing radiation causes DNA damage (mutations) in male or female reproductive (ggerm h) cells, that damage can be transmitted to the next generation (F 1). This is in contrast to mutations in somatic cells, which are not transmitted. Detection of human germ cell mutations is difficult, especially at low doses. 
Radiation can also affect DNA. For example, ultraviolet light from the sun can cause harmful chemical changes in the DNA of skin. These changes can lead to kinks in the DNA that prevent genes from being correctly read, or deletions that alter the type of protein produced. Keywords: natural background radiation,harmful chemical changes,dna mutations,cause chemical changes,dna mutation,molecular clock,reactive chemicals,human origins,free radicals,human cells,constant rate,byproducts,grist,rare cases,ultraviolet light,narration,deletions,length of time,metabolism,genes.
Today we learned how irradiation can cause mutations in DNA. We learned that there are two major types of radiation: ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation. Ionizing radiation, such as X-rays and gamma rays, is a high-energy kind of radiation that causes ions and free radicals to form. Irradiation is exposure to radiation and chemical mutagens are chemicals that cause changes to DNA sequences. In this lesson, we'll learn about how radiation exposure can cause mutations and even cancer.
Ultraviolet (UV) radiation is known to cause distinct mutations in keratinocytes that ultimately contribute to the development of the nonmelanoma skin cancers, which include basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). 
Induced mutations: Mutations can be induced by exposing organisms (or cells) to a variety of treatments. Some of the most common are: - One of the first known mutagens, radiation is a potent inducer of mutations. Different types of radiation cause different types of genetic changes. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation causes point mutations. X-rays can cause breaks in the DNA double-helix and lead to translocations, inversions and other types of chromosome damage. Exposure to the UV rays in sunlight has been linked to skin cancer
Mutations to DNA lead to changes in the proteins the cell produces, which modify the way the cell behaves, and can ultimately lead to diseases such as cancer. Exposure to radiation is considered a mutagen, meaning that it causes mutations in DNA. Effect of Ionizing Radiation. Ionizing radiation, the type of radiation released by radioactive materials, also contributes to DNA mutation. Like UVB, ionizing radiation causes direct DNA damage that lead to mutations.
Inevitably, some mistakes may be made, and these mistakes are mutations because they change the DNA sequence. This means that ionizing radiation can cause mutations in cells that are deep inside of us, not just the cells on the surface of our bodies. These mutations can eventually lead to cancer; ionizing radiation is known to cause leukemia and thyroid cancer, just to name a few. Irradiation is exposure to radiation and chemical mutagens are chemicals that cause changes to DNA sequences. In this lesson, we'll learn about how radiation exposure can cause mutations and even cancer.