Candy says. Hot glue guns are not a good way to glue all things. Glass, plastic, metal, most wood, and a lot of other things will not have a good bond. A great tip is to double glue. I use thick white craft glue, then add a drop or two of hot glue to hold the parts together until the craft glue can dry. 
For people bored with the usual clear glue, the sticks come in different colors and even impregnated with glitter. Uses. Here are just a few projects for which a glue gun is useful: 1  Add beads or other decorations to glass, wood, ceramics, stone, brick, metal, or other materials. Another feature to consider is whether you want a trigger-fed gun or a push-fed model. With the trigger feed, you slip the glue stick into the hole at the back of the gun, and each pull of the trigger advances the stick into the heater and out through the nozzle.
Hot glue guns are portable devices that utilize and dispense hot melt adhesives. First produced in the 1940s, hot melts—thermoplastics in the shape of tubular sticks—were created as an improvement to water-based adhesives that weaken when exposed to humidity. To ensure the best bonding results, a compatible hot melt adhesive is essential for each glue gun and application. Hot melts vary in width and length and are generally in the form of waxes, resins and a variation of thermoplastic polymers.
How Glue Guns Work. The glue gun is a hand held tool into which you feed a solid glue stick. A heating element in the body of the gun melts the glue, and the adhesive flows out the glue gun’s metal, cone-shaped tip. Another feature to consider is whether you want a trigger-fed gun or a push-fed model. With the trigger feed, you slip the glue stick into the hole at the back of the gun, and each pull of the trigger advances the stick into the heater and out through the nozzle.
Place the glue gun on a secure surface such as a table. Place a sheet of paper underneath it to protect the surface area. Place a piece of aluminum foil under the nozzle of the glue gun to catch the over-flow of glue that will run out of the nozzle. Be sure to keep your glue gun away from open flames. 4. Insert glue stick into the back of the glue gun. If there is already a glue stick in the glue gun, wait until the glue gun warms up and then gently squeeze the trigger.
Glue Sticks & Glue Guns. We offer glue sticks, glue guns, low & hot melt adhesives, glue dots & squares and Henkel bulk adhesives. We're the original online provider of glue guns and glue gun sticks. Supplying glue guns since 1979. 
Glue guns have been used for years for arts and craft projects. The challenge with working with hot glue is that it is easy to get burned or to have a flood of hot glue that must be dealt with quickly. Glue guns feature either a trigger feed or a push feed (manual). With a trigger-fed gun, the glue is distributed by pulling on a trigger. With push-fed models, you insert the glue stick into the hole at the back of the tool and apply pressure to it with your thumb to feed the glue through the nozzle.
For the band, see Glue Gun (band) . A hot glue gun loaded with a glue stick. Hot melt adhesive (HMA), also known as hot glue, is a form of thermoplastic adhesive that is commonly supplied in solid cylindrical sticks of various diameters, designed to be melted in an electric hot glue gun. The gun uses a continuous-duty heating element to melt the plastic glue, which may be pushed through the gun by a mechanical trigger mechanism, or directly by the user. The glue squeezed out of the heated nozzle is initially hot enough to burn and even blister skin.
Easy Online Ordering! We sell Hot Melt Glue Guns, Commercial Glue Dispensers and Hot Melt Glue for hobby, craft, and professionals use. Our hot melt glue is made in the USA. You can rest assured that you are purchasing a good quality product at a fair price.