In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plates or fragments of the lithosphere move toward one another and collide. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision.
When an oceanic plate collides with a continental plate the crust forming the oceanic plate gets bent and pulled under the continental crust. This is because the rocks that form the oceanic crust are denser and thinner than the rocks that form the continental crust. At the subduction zone where the oceanic crust sinks beneath the continental crust a deep oceanic trench or valley is created. These can be many of thousands of kilometres long and 8 to 10 kilometres deep making them the deepest part of the ocean floor.
The Washington-Oregon coastline of the United States is an example of this type of convergent plate boundary. Here the Juan de Fuca oceanic plate is subducting beneath the westward moving North American continental plate. Here the Nazca Plate is subducting beneath the South American plate. Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of convergent boundaries between oceanic and continental plates.
Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed. Two plates sliding past each other forms a transform plate boundary. Natural or human-made structures that cross a transform boundary are offset—split into pieces and carried in opposite directions
As with oceanic-continental convergence, when two oceanic plates converge, one is usually subducted under the other, and in the process a trench is formed. The Marianas Trench (paralleling the Mariana Islands), for example, marks where the fast-moving Pacific Plate converges against the slower moving Philippine Plate. 
When a convergent boundary occurs between two oceanic plates one of those plates will subduct beneath the other. Normally the older plate will subduct because of its higher density. The subducting plate is heated as it is forced deeper into the mantle and at a depth of about 100 miles (150 km) the plate begins to melt. Here the Nazca Plate is subducting beneath the South American plate. Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of convergent boundaries between oceanic and continental plates.
A subduction zone is formed at a convergent plate boundary when one or both of the tectonic plates is composed of oceanic crust. The denser plate, made of oceanic crust, is subducted underneath the less dense plate, which can be either continental or oceanic crust. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision.
When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision.
The process by which the oceanic crust is pulled under the continental crust is called subduction and the zone at which this occurs at the plate boundaries is called the subduction zone. At the subduction zone where the oceanic crust sinks beneath the continental crust a deep oceanic trench or valley is created. These can be many of thousands of kilometres long and 8 to 10 kilometres deep making them the deepest part of the ocean floor.
In a subduction zone, the subducting plate, which is normally a plate with oceanic crust, moves beneath the other plate, which can be made of either oceanic or continental crust. During collisions between two continental plates, large mountain ranges, such as the Himalayas are formed. Oceanic-continental. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision.