I_2 (_ = subscript or the little small number that's at the bottom like H_2O) iodine is a diatomic molecule so it always has a subscript of 2 when it's by itself. The same goes for hydrogen, bromine, nitrogen, oxygen, chlorine, and fluorine. 
An iodide ion is the ion I − . Compounds with iodine in formal oxidation state −1 are called iodides. This page is for the iodide ion and its salts, not organoiodine compounds. In everyday life, iodide is most commonly encountered as a component of iodized salt, which many governments mandate. A test for the presence of iodide ions is the formation of yellow precipitates of these compounds upon treatment of a solution of silver nitrate or lead(II) nitrate. Aqueous solutions of iodide salts dissolve iodine better than pure water.
Complexed iodine, soluble in water as triiodide, forms a brown solution in the denser aqueous layer while free iodine forms a faint pink color in the organic solution. Upon addition of an oxidizing agent, such as bleach, to the bottom of the vial, the triiodide complex is oxidized to free iodine. 
RE: Chemical Equations with Iodine and Sodium? When the metallic element sodium combines with the nonmetallic element iodine, I2(s), how do you know whether the product is a solid, liquid, or gas at room temperature? Write the balanced chemical equation for the reaction. 
I think it depends on the mixtures. When I mixed a store bought solution of iodine (2.5% iodine and 2.5% potassium iodide) in water it was brown. But when I added heavy minera … l oil and mixed them, the mineral oil layer was a brilliant pink/purple colour. Really impressive. NR Pure iodine is violet. 
When iodine is added to water, the following reaction results: I 2 (l) + H 2 - (aq) + 2H + (aq) + I - (aq). I 2 molecules and water molecules react to substances such as hypoiodite (OI -). The reaction can move both ways of the equilibrium, depending on the pH of the solution. Iodine may also occur as I 3 - (aq), HIO(aq), IO - (aq) en HIO 3 (aq). Iodine can bind to many different substances, for example other halogens. The compounds that are form behave differently when they come in contact with water. Solubility of iodine and iodine compounds. Water solubility of iodine is determined by temperature (20 o C) and pressure (1 bar), and is relatively low. Iodine is naturally present in water. The average concentration in seawater is about 60 ppb, but varies from place to place. Rivers usually contain about 5 ppb of iodine, and in mineral sources some ppm can even be found.
Iodine is a chemical element with symbol I and atomic number 53. The name is from Greek ἰοειδής ioeidēs, meaning violet or purple, due to the color of elemental iodine vapor. Iodine and its compounds are primarily used in nutrition, and industrially in the production of acetic acid and certain polymers. 1 Tincture of iodine: iodine in ethanol, or iodine and sodium iodide in a mixture of ethanol and water. 2  Lugol's iodine: iodine and iodide in water alone, forming mostly triiodide. 3  Unlike tincture of iodine, Lugol's has a minimized amount of the free iodine (I 2) component. 4  Povidone iodine (an iodophor).
2. Carefully measure 10.0 mL of the iodine solution in a graduated cylinder and transfer to a 250 mL Erlenmeyer flask. Rinse the graduated cylinder with a few milliliters of deionized water and pour the water into the flask. Add a few crystals of potassium iodide (KI). 5. Repeat Step 4 with a second 50.0 mL sample of iodine solution and 8.0 mL of cyclohexane. 6. Remove the cyclohexane layer (upper layer) with a Pasteur pipet [CAUTION: its tip is very sharp] from the first test tube into a beaker. Then pour 25.0 mL of the water layer into a clean, dry graduated cylinder.
Iodine-131 (usually in the chemical form of iodide) is a component of nuclear fallout, and is particularly dangerous owing to the thyroid gland's propensity to concentrate ingested iodine, where it is kept for periods longer than this isotope's radiological half-life of eight days. 1 Tincture of iodine: iodine in ethanol, or iodine and sodium iodide in a mixture of ethanol and water. 2  Lugol's iodine: iodine and iodide in water alone, forming mostly triiodide. 3  Unlike tincture of iodine, Lugol's has a minimized amount of the free iodine (I 2) component. 4  Povidone iodine (an iodophor).
When iodine (I2) is in solution with iodide ion (I-), the brown triiodide ion forms: I2 (aq) + I- (aq) I3- (aq) Purple colorless brown Thus, reaction of iodide ion with a solution of bleach produces iodine, which then reacts with remaining iodide ion to form the brown triiodide ion. In this experiment, you will use a solution of bleach to supply Cl2 (aq) for reaction with iodide ion. The products of this reaction are molecular iodine and chloride ion. Cl2 + 2 I-I2 + 2 Cl-Iodine (I2) exists as a purple solid and dissolves sparingly in water.