The hip joint is a spherical joint between the femoral head and the acetabulum in the pelvis (Fig. 1); it is a diarthrosis or synovial joint, since it is wrapped in a capsule that contains the synovial fluid (SF), a biological lubricant that acts also like a shock-absorber [1] . The tribological performance of artificial hip joints is a critical issue for their success, because adverse tissue reaction to wear debris causes loosening and failure. Many studies on wear and lubrication of hip prostheses have been published in the last 10 years, mostly on experimental tests.
Bones of the hip joint. Normal Hip Joint vs. Arthritic Hip Joint (image courtesy of: Stryker Orthopaedics). The femur is the upper leg bone or thigh. It is the largest bone in the body. At the top of the femur is a rounded protrusion which articulates with the pelvis. This portion is referred to as the head of the femur, or femoral head. It is a ball and socket joint at the juncture of the leg and pelvis. The rounded head of the femur (thighbone) forms the ball, which fits into the acetabulum (a cup-shaped socket in the pelvis). Ligaments connect the ball to the socket and usually provide tremendous stability to the joint.
Take an omega-3 fatty acid supplement or eat more foods that contain omega-3 fatty acids such as salmon, sardines, walnuts and canola oil. Foods and supplements that contain omega-3 fatty acids support the regeneration of synovial fluid to better lubricate the hip joint. In the hip joint, pain may radiate through the hip and groin into the thigh. Joint pain may be worse in the morning and at the end of the day. A physician can diagnose the cause of hip pain and provide treatment options to reduce pain and lubricate joints.
This lubricant in concentrated form can be injected into a joint to increase lubrication. The lubricant tends to stimulate cartilage cells in order to assist in the natural cartilage repair process, decreasing inflammation and reducing the breakdown of damaged cartilage by degradative enzymes. 
The various muscles which attach to or cover the hip joint generate the hip’s movement. 1  Gluteals: The gluteals are the muscles in your buttocks. 2  The gluteals (gluteus maximus, gluteus minimus and gluteus medius) are the three muscles attached to back of the pelvis and insert into the greater trochanter of the femur. It is a ball and socket joint at the juncture of the leg and pelvis. The rounded head of the femur (thighbone) forms the ball, which fits into the acetabulum (a cup-shaped socket in the pelvis). Ligaments connect the ball to the socket and usually provide tremendous stability to the joint.
How to Lubricate Your Hip Joint. Discuss your hip pain with a physician. He will be able to diagnose the cause of the pain to properly treat your symptoms. Poor lubrication in the hip joint may be caused by conditions such as arthritis, trauma or inflammation. Take a daily multivitamin to ensure that your nutritional needs are being met. Proper nutrition is important for creating and replacing synovial fluid. In the hip joint, pain may radiate through the hip and groin into the thigh. Joint pain may be worse in the morning and at the end of the day. A physician can diagnose the cause of hip pain and provide treatment options to reduce pain and lubricate joints.
The ball portion of the hip joint (femoral head) fits into the socket (acetabulum) of the hip bone (pelvis). The bone of the femoral head and acetabulum of the pelvis are separated by spongy material (cartilage) and by a sac of fluid (synovial fluid), both of which serve to lubricate the joint. A properly functioning hip joint is critical for normal everyday activities such as walking, running and climbing. The cartilage or bones that make up the hip joint can deteriorate for a variety of reasons, leading to pain, stiffness or difficulty walking.
The hip joint is one of the most important joints in the human body. It allows us to walk, run, and jump. It bears our body’s weight and the force of the strong muscles of the hip and leg. Yet the hip joint is also one of our most flexible joints and allows a greater range of motion than all other joints in the body except for the shoulder.
Every joint in the body is lubricated by synovial fluid, which works to cushion the joint so that bone and cartilage do not rub together creating friction. When joints are not lubricated well, pain may result. In the hip joint, pain may radiate through the hip and groin into the thigh. Joint pain may be worse in the morning and at the end of the day. A physician can diagnose the cause of hip pain and provide treatment options to reduce pain and lubricate joints.