Baking pork steaks is an indoor cooking option. However, it takes longer than grilling. Pork steaks won’t form a crispy outer crust by baking in the oven, so you’ll have to factor in an additional 10 minutes for browning the outsides of the steaks on the stovetop. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit.
1. Put the pork steaks into the large bowl with a dash of salt, pepper, and garlic powder. 2. Add ¼ cup of Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons of soy sauce, 3-4 dashes of steak sauce, and 1 tablespoon of olive oil.
1 Place the pork steaks in the skillet, cover, and cook 8 to 10 minutes on each side, Remove cover, and continue cooking 10 minutes, or to an internal temperature of 145 degrees F (63 degrees C).
Ready In. 1  Melt butter in a skillet, and mix in the soy sauce. 2  Place the pork steaks in the skillet, cover, and cook 8 to 10 minutes on each side, Remove cover, and continue cooking 10 minutes, or to an internal temperature of 145 degrees F (63 degrees C).
Directions. 1. Put the pork steaks into the large bowl with a dash of salt, pepper, and garlic powder. 2. Add ¼ cup of Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons of soy sauce, 3-4 dashes of steak sauce, and 1 tablespoon of olive oil. 3. Cover the bowl with the steaks and sauces.
One of the most common cooking methods for pork steak is grilling. The total cooking time for grilled pork steak is typically about 12 to 15 minutes total for steaks with 1/2-inch thickness.
Grilling. One of the most common cooking methods for pork steak is grilling. The total cooking time for grilled pork steak is typically about 12 to 15 minutes total for steaks with 1/2-inch thickness. If you plan to soak the pork steaks in a marinade, begin four to 24 hours before you want to start grilling. Once your pork steaks are flavored to your liking, heat an outdoor grill to medium-high heat. Place the steaks onto the grill and heat for six minutes.
1 Saute the green onions and garlic until lightly browned. 2  Place the pork steaks in the skillet, cover, and cook 8 to 10 minutes on each side, Remove cover, and continue cooking 10 minutes, or to an internal temperature of 145 degrees F (63 degrees C).