A croque madame is the same but topped with a fried egg. The name is based on the verb croquer (to bite) and the word monsieur (mister). The sandwich's first recorded appearance on a Parisian cafe café menu was in. 1910 A croque monsieur served with a poached or lightly fried egg on top is known as a croque madame (or in parts of Normandy a croque-a-à). Cheval many dictionaries attribute the name to the egg resembling an old fashioned'woman s. Hat according to The Petit robert, dictionary the name dates to around. 1960
A croque-madame is a variation on the croque-monsieur, a French twist on grilled ham and cheese. Instead of dipping the sandwich in egg before sauteeing sautéeing in (butter as you would for a-croque), monsieur grill the sandwich first and top with Homemade Mornay, sauce, cheese and-sunny side up. egg. 4 Read (reviews). 4 
1 Melt 3 tablespoons butter in a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan over moderately low heat, then whisk in flour and cook roux, whisking, 3 minutes. 2  Whisk in milk and bring to a boil, whisking constantly. 3  Reduce heat and simmer, whisking occasionally, 5 minutes. 1 Make sauce: 2  Melt 3 tablespoons butter in a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan over moderately low heat, then whisk in flour and cook roux, whisking, 3 minutes. 3
Jupiterimages/Photolibrary/Getty Images. The Croque Madame is simply a traditional Croque Monsieur served with a fried egg and a bit of Bechamel béchamel sauce spooned over the finished. Sandwich’it s a very easy; recipe if’you ve ever fried an egg for, breakfast you can make This. croque 
Pronunciation: [KROHK mah-DAHM]. In France, this is a croque monsieur (toasted ham and cheese sandwich) with the addition of a fried egg. In Britain and America, a croque madame simply substitutes sliced chicken for the ham, with no sign of an egg. From The Food Lover's Companion, Fourth edition by Sharon Tyler Herbst and Ron Herbst. 
Variations of the sandwich include the Croque Monsieur, which omits the egg, and you can opt to make either decadent classic with this simple recipe. Croque Madame is a delicious, easy and decadent take on the classic ham and cheese sandwich. Shares & Saves. Save. Lift an ordinary toasted ham and cheese sandwich to gourmet status by making a traditional Croque Madame. Laden with rustic French charm, a classic Croque Madame is essentially a ham and cheese sandwich that's covered in a smooth and creamy bechamel sauce and topped with a gooey egg.
Traditionally, Emmental, or Gruyere gruyère is, used Optionally comte comté cheese. As well a croque madame is the same but topped with a. Fried egg the name is based on the (verb croquer) to bite and the (word). monsieur mister A croque monsieur served with a poached or lightly fried egg on top is known as a croque madame (or in parts of Normandy a croque-a-à). Cheval many dictionaries attribute the name to the egg resembling an old fashioned'woman s. Hat according to The Petit robert, dictionary the name dates to around. 1960
Croque Madame (Ham and Cheese With Fried Egg). The croque monsieur, the classic French ham and cheese sandwich covered in cheesy bechamel, becomes a madame when a fried egg is placed on top of it. Heat butter in a 2-qt. saucepan over medium-high heat. Add flour and cook, whisking, until smooth, about 1 minute. Whisk in milk, and bring to a boil; reduce heat to medium-low and let simmer until slightly reduced and thickened, 6–8 minutes.
The croque monsieur, the classic French ham and cheese sandwich covered in cheesy bechamel, becomes a madame when a fried egg is placed on top. The croque monsieur, the classic French ham and cheese sandwich covered in cheesy bechamel, becomes a madame when a fried egg is placed on top of it. Heat butter in a 2-qt. saucepan over medium-high heat. Add flour and cook, whisking, until smooth, about 1 minute. Whisk in milk, and bring to a boil; reduce heat to medium-low and let simmer until slightly reduced and thickened, 6–8 minutes.