Age and grade equivalents are very different from other types of normative scores (e.g., standard scores) commonly available for standardized tests such as OWLS. Remember that age and grade equivalent scores are not on an equal-interval scale. 
What is a Grade Equivalent Score? A grade equivalent (GE) score is described as both a growth score and a status score both. As is common with scores that can be used in both major categories GE do not do a very good job in either category. However, what GE does is indicate where a student’s test score falls along a continuum. It is for this reason that another status score, such as percentile ranks and another growth score such as standard scores are recommended in place of GE scores. Remember that grade and age equivalent scores are ordinal scores.
I am not talking about age and grade equivalent scores, as some have, but about the standard scores and percentiles compared with others at the same age and the same grade level. For a retained child, I. will run grade norms on math, which is very much tied to teaching certain skills at certain grade levels. The age/grade equivalent is simply that the child obtained the raw score corresponding to the average raw. score obtained by a group of children at the specified age/grade. Most tests lack a sufficient number of items at any specific age/grade level of difficulty due to their broad age/grade range of the test.
Age-Equivalent Scores. Interpretation of the age-equivalent score is similar to that ofthe grade-equivalent score. A raw score corresponds to a chronological age. Ateacher can use a norms table to determine such scores. A portion of a normstable would look something like this: If a student, age 6.0,also gets a raw score of 20, his age-equivalent score is 6.7. The 6.0-year olddid better for his age group than the 7.6-year old, but the 6.0-year oldprobably does not know as much as the older child.
Therefore, a student, age 7.6 (7 years, 6 months), who gets a raw score of 20,has an age-equivalent score of 6.0 (6 years, 0 months). If a student, age 6.0,also gets a raw score of 20, his age-equivalent score is 6.7. The 6.0-year olddid better for his age group than the 7.6-year old, but the 6.0-year oldprobably does not know as much as the older child.
For example, the age equivalent for a raw score of 50 on the PPVT-III is 4 years 0 months. The age equivalent for a raw score of 55 is 4 years 4 months. A change of 5 raw score points at this early age reflects a change of 4 months in terms of age-equivalent scores. However, the age equivalent for a raw score of 165 is 16 years 4 months, and for a raw score of 170 is 18 years 2 months.
Grade-Equivalent Scores. The Grade-equivalent score is a controversial statistic. Woolfolk(1990) states, Because grade-equivalent scores are misleading and so oftenmisinterpreted, especially by parents, most educators and psychologists believethey should not be used at all.. 
T-Scores. Grade Equivalents and Age Equivalents. Before you can begin to understand what a given test score may mean you must first understand the scale that is being used. For example, an IQ score of 115 is the same as a percentile rank of 84, a scaled score of 13, and a t-score of 60. In fact, by 7th or 8th grade, the 'average range' for grade equivalent scores extends from about 5th grade to 10th grade. This is not an indication of a failing educational system, but merely reflects the normal distribution of skills among the normal student population.
Age or Grade Equivalents. Age and grade equivalents reflect the age or grade level at which average score is same as subject's raw score. A grade or age quivalent is another way to compare a student to the standardization sample. If a student receives a grade equivalent of 2.0, it means the student scored the same as the mean (average) raw score of all the second grade students in the standardization sample. 
The reliability of age-and grade-equivalent scores is limited by the relationship between the equivalents and the raw scores on which they are based. An age or grade equivalent is simply the median raw score for a particular age or grade level. A change of 5 raw score points at this early age reflects a change of 4 months in terms of age-equivalent scores. However, the age equivalent for a raw score of 165 is 16 years 4 months, and for a raw score of 170 is 18 years 2 months.