CareerCast.com has compiled a list of the best part-time jobs, based on pay and job outlook. For job seekers aiming to find part-time employment, these positions offer the highest pay in addition to the best potential for job stability and growth down the road. Check out the top 10 part-time jobs. 1 of 12 Show All
That’s close to 1 million fewer than the number of involuntary part-time workers at the peak of the recession in 2009, but it’s still nearly twice the number who did so before the recession began in 2007. But just because you are working a part-time job doesn’t mean you can’t still earn full-time pay – or close to it. The salary comparison website PayScale.com provided MainStreet with a list of the best paying-jobs for workers who put in less than 30 hours a week, based on salary surveys from the previous 12 months.
Salary results for Part Time. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. 
Part-time salaries are typically based on full-time salaries divided by the number of hours worked. Some companies pay part-time employees a discounted rate, that is, less than the equivalent full-time salary. Also, benefits are typically lower for part-time employees. 
The average pay among the top 10 jobs is $11.67 per hour, $4.42 per hour more than federal minimum wage. For the teen with 10 weeks available to work, that amounts to earning $4,668 a summer. , where demand rises in the summer, ranked eighth on our list with average pay of $10.02 per hour. The ultimate service job–waiter and waitress–came in 10th on our list, paying on average $9.80 per hour, tips included.
According to Demos, an organization focused on public policy, the lowest earning part-time retail employees receive a median wage of $8.25. When all part-time retail workers are included, the median wage rises to $9.61. By comparison, their full-time counterparts receive median wages of $9.61 to $14.42.
While the average salary for part-time jobs in this time period was just $11.90, PayScale found several positions that pay more than $20 and some that pay close to $30 an hour. What’s more, several of these positions could easily serve as stepping stones to full-time careers in industries like teaching and health care. The salary comparison website PayScale.com provided MainStreet with a list of the best paying-jobs for workers who put in less than 30 hours a week, based on salary surveys from the previous 12 months.
But jobs that allow you to work less than 34 hours a week (the definition of part-time employment, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics) are ideal for parents, students and retirees. Here are 10 part-time jobs from the U.S. News Best Jobs rankings that will help pay the bills – or even cover all your expenses. 
Average Per Week and Month. Males between the age of 16 and 24 who worked part time earned a median weekly income of $177 in 2011, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Females in the same age category earned a median weekly income of $170 in 2011 working part time. In the state of Minnesota, teenagers earned an average of $643 per month across all industries in the summer of 2010. In some cases, their hourly wage may be less than the federal minimum, due to the youth minimum wage established under the Fair Labor Standards Act. The youth minimum wage may be paid to people under age 20 who work at a job for 90 days or less. At the time of publication, the wage is $4.25 per hour.