Transient pruritis has been noted after IV injection. Sulfamethoxazole/Trimethoprim is not FDA-approved for use in horses, but it is commonly used and an accepted practice. Trimethoprim sulfadiazine is FDA-approved for use in horses. SMZ/TMP is a prescription drug, restricted to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian. SMZ/TMP is not permitted in drug-free competitions.
1 Trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole are two antibiotics, commonly called Tribrissen® or TMS, that work together to create an optimal effect. 2  It is used in dogs and cats to treat pneumonia, prostatitis, kennel cough, otitis externa, and skin infections. Trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole is used in both dogs and cats to treat a variety of infections including: 1  Urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of E. coli, Klebsiella, and Enterobacter species. 2  Enteritis caused by susceptible organisms (e.g. Shigella). 3  Pneumonia.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION: This drug is an antibiotic that fights bacterial infections. This combination antibiotic contains trimethoprim and a sulfonamide, either sulfadiazine or sulfamethoxazole. These two medications work synergistically together which increases their effectiveness against bacteria. This medication is available as an oral paste and an injectable solution. Notify your veterinarian if your horse’s condition does not improve or worsens despite this treatment. This product should not be used in horses intended for human consumption. Check with the appropriate regulatory body regarding the use in competition horses.
Descriptions. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim combination is used to treat infections such as urinary tract infections, middle ear infections (otitis media), bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, and shigellosis (bacillary dysentery).
Bactrim works against bacteria in the following types of infections: 1  Urinary tract infections (UTIs) caused by E. coli, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Morganella morganii, Proteus mirabilis, and Proteus vulgaris. Bactrim DS tablets are white and oval, containing 160 mg of trimethoprim and 800 mg of sulfamethoxazole. Take the medication as directed by your doctor until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. Failure to do so may help create bacteria that are resistant to treatment.
Sulfamethoxazole with trimethoprim is a fixed antibiotic combination that is widely used for mild to moderate bacterial infections and as prophylaxis against opportunistic infections. A 33 year old woman was treated with a 21-day course of sulfamethoxazole/trimethoprim (TMP-SMZ) (80 mg/400 mg) for sinusitis.
13 Reviews. Bactrim is the brand name of the generic antibiotic sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim (sometimes called co-trimoxazole). The drug is a combination of two antibiotics: It's one part trimethoprim (a synthetic drug), and five parts sulfamethoxazole (a sulfonamide drug). Bactrim DS tablets are white and oval, containing 160 mg of trimethoprim and 800 mg of sulfamethoxazole. Take the medication as directed by your doctor until you finish the prescription, even if you feel better. Failure to do so may help create bacteria that are resistant to treatment.
Overview of Trimethoprim/Sulfamethoxazole for Dogs and Cats. 1  Trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole are two antibiotics, commonly called Tribrissen® or TMS, that work together to create an optimal effect. 2  It is used in dogs and cats to treat pneumonia, prostatitis, kennel cough, otitis externa, and skin infections. Trimethoprim and sulfamethoxazole is used in both dogs and cats to treat a variety of infections including: 1  Urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of E. coli, Klebsiella, and Enterobacter species. 2  Enteritis caused by susceptible organisms (e.g. Shigella). 3  Pneumonia.
Description. Sulfadiazine/Trimethoprim-SMZ/TMP is a potentiated sulfonamide that is one of the most commonly used antimicrobials in the treatment of horses. Used as a combination drug it is more effective and has fewer side effects than when the drugs are used separately. Trimethoprim sulfadiazine is FDA-approved for use in horses. SMZ/TMP is a prescription drug, restricted to use by or on the lawful written or oral order of a licensed veterinarian. SMZ/TMP is not permitted in drug-free competitions.