Report Abuse. The United States is a hybrid Representative Democracy and Constitutional Republic. It is not a direct democracy. As a Representative Democracy, the United States has elected officials (Senators, Congressmen, President, etc.,) who represent the people. The United States, according to a strict textbook definition, is a REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY. In a representative democracy, we elect officials to pass and deliberate on legislation on our behalf. Source(s): High school degree, and i'm in Yelm.
The United States of America is a republic. A republic is a form of  government in which there are laws that limit the powers of  government.    The United States is … NOT a democracy. A democracy is where the  majority rules. This is often without regard for the rights of the  minority.    For example
Democracy. The United States has had the same type of government for more than 200 years. It’s called a “representative democracy.” Among the nations of the world, it is unusual for a system of government to last so long.
Democracy, or democratic government, is a system of government in which all the people of a state or polity ... are involved in making decisions about its affairs, typically by voting to elect representatives to a parliament or similar assembly, as defined by the Oxford English Dictionary. Democracy contrasts with forms of government where power is either held by an individual, as in an absolute monarchy, or where power is held by a small number of individuals, as in an oligarchy.
The United States is a federal republic, and operates under a form of representative democracy whereby people are elected to represent the will of their respective home region … s (rather than a direct democracy where decisions are put to a vote of the citizenry). Article IV of the Constitution of the United States guarantees a Republican form of government to each state. In a few places, a direct democracy exists, at times. This is most famously the case in the Town Meetings held annually by small towns, but not cities, in New England.
Report Abuse. The United States of America's government is a democratic republic. A democratic republic is a form of government in which is a mixture if a democracy and republic. Source(s): My teacher and my textbook. Majlinda · 1 year ago. 
The type of government of the United States is a representational democracy; it can also be described as a republic, based upon the organization of the government into three b … ranches, the executive, legislative, and judicial. Perhaps we should call it a representative democratic republic. Article IV of the Constitution of the United States guarantees a Republican form of government to each state. In a few places, a direct democracy exists, at times. This is most famously the case in the Town Meetings held annually by small towns, but not cities, in New England.
As a Constitutional Republic, the United States have a constitution and laws that puts checks and balances in place so that certain minorities are protected from the tyranny of the majority. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democracy#.... The United States, according to a strict textbook definition, is a REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY. In a representative democracy, we elect officials to pass and deliberate on legislation on our behalf. Source(s): High school degree, and i'm in Yelm.
The United States is, indeed, a republic, not a democracy. Accurately defined, a democracy is a form of government in which the people decide policy matters directly--through town hall meetings or by voting on ballot initiatives and referendums. By popular usage, however, the word democracy come to mean a form of government in which the government derives its power from the people and is accountable to them for the use of that power. In this sense the United States might accurately be called