A tropical rainforest climate, also known as an equatorial climate, is a tropical climate usually (but not always) found along the equator. Regions with this climate typically feature tropical rainforests, and it is designated Af by the Koeppen köppen climate. classification Upland rainforest in Borneo. Sabah, Malaysia A tropical rainforest climate is usually found at latitudes within ten degrees North and South of the equator, which are dominated by the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
Asker's rating. Report Abuse. this is the international definition of a tropical rainforest: A tropical rainforest is a place found roughly within 25 degrees north or south of the equator.. some conditions reqd are: Minimum normal annual rainfall between 175 cm (69 in) and 200 cm (79 in) occurs in this climate region. 
Confidence votes 49. Tropical rainforests are mainly located near the equator. The reason is because it is hottest at the equator. It rains alot in these areas, causing more trees to go. Then, eventually, it grows into a tropical rainforest! Tropical areas near the equator have the warmest climate because the sun's rays are pointed at the middle of the Earth on its axis, called the equator. The directness of the s … un's rays obviously causes heat which is why the places around the Earth's equator are warm.
Tropical are found close to the equator. Temperate are found along coasts in the temperate zone. Tropical rainforests are located close to the equator, an area known as the tropic zone. Most are in the area between the Tropic of Cancer. and the Tropic of Capricorn. Temperate rainforests are found in the area of the earth known as the temperate zones. Areas that include temperate rainforests are the pacific coast of the United States and Canada, New Zealand, Tasmania, Chile, Ireland, Scotland and Norway. There are fewer temperate forests.. Also they cover a lot less area.
Tropical Rainforest The tropical rainforest is a hot, moist biome found near Earth's equator. The world's largest tropical rainforests are in South America, Africa, and Southeast Asia. Tropical rainforests receive from 60 to 160 inches of precipitation that is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year. 
Additionally,while tropical rainforest climates are typically located near the equator (hence the alternate name “equatorial climate”), there are a number of instances where the climate is found some distance away from the equator. Upland rainforest in Borneo. Sabah, Malaysia A tropical rainforest climate is usually found at latitudes within ten degrees North and South of the equator, which are dominated by the Intertropical Convergence Zone.
Tropical rainforests are warm, wet forests with many tall trees. They grow in a narrow zone near the equator. Tropical rainforests are found in Africa, Asia, Australia, and Central and South America. The largest rainforest in the world is the Amazon rainforest in South America. Tropical rainforests are home to a huge number of different plants and animals. All tropical rainforests are endangered. All tropical rainforests are found in a belt wrapping around the equator of the earth. This region is called the tropics. In the tropics the sun shines directly overhead about the same length of time every day, each day of the year. As a result, temperature is the same most days of the year.
A tropical rainforest is typically hot year round with little temperature change from month to month. Tropical rainforests are near the equator because the climate there is warm, very wet and constant due to the position of the sun over the equator; it's always directly overhead. The plants that live there thrive in these conditions. There are only two seasons in the tropical rainforests: wet season and dry season. Confidence votes 86. The region around the equator is the tropics (both north and south), so any rainforest around the equator which is in the tropics is a tropical rainforest. A rainforest can exist (and does exist) outside the tropics.
Tropical rainforests are located near the equator. Fifty seven percent of all tropical rainforests are found in Latin America. One third of the world's tropical rainforests are in Brazil. Other tropical rainforests are located in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands (25% of the world's tropical rainforests) and West Africa (18%). Temperate rainforests are found along some coasts in temperate zones. The largest temperate rainforests are found on the Pacific coast of North America