The genus is Greek for sun flower.. Description of perennial sunflower: Perennial sunflowers are tall, robust plants with fibrous roots and large, rough, simple leaves on stout stems. Large, yellow, daisylike flowers bloom in September and October. Perennial sunflower ease of care: Easy. 
Native to North America, sunflowers have been cultivated for centuries. Perennial and annual sunflowers (Helianthus spp.) flourish across the United States. Gigantic yellow blossoms burst open atop stalks that grow between 2 and 12 feet high on this North America native, a member of the Asteraceae family. Sunflowers thrive en masse in gardens and along borders, attracting butterflies and birds, but experiencing no serious disease or pest problems.
Sunflower, perennial. Helianthus. A big, bodacious, beautiful plant, perennial sunflower is imposingly tall and floppy with large (up to 4-inch), bright yellow flowers that form in loose clusters. Most of these natives thrive in full sun and are not fussy about soil. The taller ones may need support. Excellent for cut flowers. 1  Facebook. 2  Pinterest. 
Companion Plants. Pointy, deep-green leaves of perennial sunflower plants allow for an exceptional backdrop to summer-blooming annuals. Brilliant yellow sunflowers dazzle among perennials like bluebeard blossoms (Caryopteris spp.), purple ironweed (Vernonia spp.) and butterfly bush (Buddleia spp.). Gigantic yellow blossoms burst open atop stalks that grow between 2 and 12 feet high on this North America native, a member of the Asteraceae family. Sunflowers thrive en masse in gardens and along borders, attracting butterflies and birds, but experiencing no serious disease or pest problems.
The genus Helianthus includes the much loved annual sunflower, Helianthus annuus, as well as several perennial species that make great, long-blooming garden plants. These are late season flowers, blooming at the end of summer and into the fall. You can easily get 8 - 12 weeks of flowers, from your plants. Some of the most popular perennial sunflowers are cultivars of Heliantus x multiflorus (Many-flowered sunflower), which is a cross between the annual sunflower and thin-leaved sunfloer (Heliantus decapetalus).
Like many of their annual relatives, perennial sunflower varieties display sunny yellow blossoms. Their flowers are generally a little smaller than those of most annual sunflowers and they tend to bloom later in the season (July through October). 
Perennial sunflower is a crop of sunflowers that are developed by crossing wild perennial and domestic annual sunflower species. Annual sunflower is a major oilseed crop. Genes from wild perennial relatives may increase root depth and mass and extend the growing season. 
Lemon Queen. Helianthus Lemon Queen is a large, fast-growing perennial sunflower that reaches heights of 6 to 8 feet and widths of 3 to 4 feet. The plant produces masses of 2-inch, pale lemon-yellow, semi-double blooms with dark brown centers. Blooms appear in midsummer and last six to eight weeks. Sunflower (Helianthus) is a large group of sun-loving lants with bright yellow petals that radiate from a dark brown center. Unlike annual varieties, perennial sunflowers return and bloom for many years. Although the flowers are similar to annual sunflowers, the blooms tend to be smaller.
Sunflower, perennial. A big, bodacious, beautiful plant, perennial sunflower is imposingly tall and floppy with large (up to 4-inch), bright yellow flowers that form in loose clusters. Most of these natives thrive in full sun and are not fussy about soil. The taller ones may need support. Excellent for cut flowers. 