1 When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side. 2  Place them back in the oven for another 10 minutes or until sausage is thoroughly cooked through. 3  Remove finished sausage to paper towels or brown paper and blot excess grease off of the links with paper towels. 1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes.
1 When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 2  When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side. 1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes.
1 Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 2  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes.
1 Preheat the oven to 400°F. 2  Place sausages in a roasting pan. 3  Add the peppers, onions, garlic, and salt and pepper. 4  Drizzle with olive oil. 5  Roast the sausages for approximately I hour, turning occasionally, until they are nicely browned. 6  Arrange on a platter and serve. Directions. 1  Preheat the oven to 400°F. 2  Place sausages in a roasting pan. 3  Add the peppers, onions, garlic, and salt and pepper. 4  Drizzle with olive oil. 5  Roast the sausages for approximately I hour, turning occasionally, until they are nicely browned
1 Place them back in the oven for another 10 minutes or until sausage is thoroughly cooked through. 2  Remove finished sausage to paper towels or brown paper and blot excess grease off of the links with paper towels. 3  Repeat process until entire 3-pounds of sausage is cooked. 1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes.
Directions Step-By-Step. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 1. Place sausages into baking pan (13x9). Add water. Sprinkle with spices. 2. Bake uncovered for 20 minutes. Turn sausages over and return to oven for about 40 minutes more or until the sausages are a beautiful color like the ones in my photo. 
Steps: 1  Preheat your oven to 400 degrees. 2  Place the vegetables in a baking dish and coat with olive oil, stirring everything well. 3  Place the sausage with the vegetables in the pan and bake for about 40 minutes until the sausage is cooked and the vegetables are nice and soft. 4  Remove the sausage and slice them thinly. 1 Place the pan in the oven and bake for about 30 minutes, turning once to brown evenly. 2  Remove the sausages form the oven and place on a platter to rest for about five minutes before serving piping hot and juicy.
Directions: Preheat an oven to 400°F. Place the sausages on a rack in a shallow roasting pan or broiler pan. Roast until the sausages are shiny but not yet browned, about 10 minutes. Turn the sausages over and continue roasting until cooked through, about 5 minutes more. Preheat a broiler. 