Full Definition of BRIGADE. 1. a: a large body of troops b: a tactical and administrative unit composed of a headquarters, one or more units of infantry or armor, and supporting units. 2. : a group of people organized for special activity. See brigade defined for English-language learners. See brigade defined for kids. 
A brigade is a major tactical military formation that is typically composed of three to six battalions plus supporting elements. It is roughly equivalent to an enlarged or reinforced regiment. Two or more brigades may constitute a division. Brigades formed into divisions are usually infantry or armoured (sometimes referred to as combined arms brigades). In addition to combat units, they may include combat support units or sub-units, such as artillery and engineers, and logistic units or sub-uni
noun. The definition of a brigade is an organized group of people, especially soldiers. 1  An example of a brigade is a group of people passing water to put out a fire. 2  An example of a brigade is a military group commanded by a colonel
• Definition of Regiment and Brigade: • A regiment is a unit of the army that usually has several battalions of the same force. For example, if you take a tank regiment, it has three tank battalions. • A brigade is a unit of the army that has several battalions that belong to multiple units. It is a mixed type of unit. If it is an infantry regiment, it has infantry battalions, and so on. A regiment is not self sufficient, and operates as a part of a bigger division where there are 3-5 regiments working together. In ancient times, a regiment was a traditional building block of an army.
In modern times, a regiment is a unit in military that is composed of a number of squadrons or battalions, and is commanded by a lieutenant colonel or a colonel. If we take the Indian Army for example, section is the smallest unit, comprising 10 men. If it is an infantry regiment, it has infantry battalions, and so on. A regiment is not self sufficient, and operates as a part of a bigger division where there are 3-5 regiments working together. In ancient times, a regiment was a traditional building block of an army.
1. a. A military unit consisting of a variable number of combat battalions or regiments. b. A US Army administrative and tactical unit composed of a headquarters unit, at least one unit of infantry or armor or both, and designated support units. A brigade can be commanded by a brigadier general or by a colonel. 2. bri•gade. 1. a military unit consisting of a headquarters and two or more regiments, squadrons, groups, or battalions. 2. a large body of troops. 3. a group of individuals organized for a particular purpose: a rescue brigade.
The brigade combat team (BCT) is the basic deployable unit of maneuver in the US Army. A brigade combat team consists of one combat arms branch maneuver brigade, and its assigned support and fire units. A brigade combat team is generally commanded by a colonel (O-6), but in rare instances it is commanded by a brigadier general. 
1 An example of a brigade is a group of people passing water to put out a fire. 2  An example of a brigade is a military group commanded by a colonel. The definition of a brigade is an organized group of people, especially soldiers. 1 
Brigade is a real-time rendering engine for video games. It uses path tracing to render images as opposed to rasterization like most other 3D game rendering engines. Path tracing is an extension of the ray tracing algorithm. 