Ingestion. Ingestion is the consumption of a substance by an organism. In animals, it normally is accomplished by taking in the substance through the mouth into the gastrointestinal tract, such as through eating or drinking. Besides nutritional items, other substances which may be ingested include medications, recreational drugs, and substances considered inedible such as foreign bodies or excrement. Ingestion is a common route taken by pathogenic organisms and poisons entering the body.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: ingestion (Noun). the action of ingesting, or consuming something orally, whether it be food, drink, medicine, or other substance. It is usually referred to as the first step of digestion. Besides nutritional items, other substances which may be ingested include medications, recreational drugs, and substances considered inedible such as foreign bodies or excrement. Ingestion is a common route taken by pathogenic organisms and poisons entering the body.
In single-celled organisms, ingestion can take place through taking the substance through the cell membrane. Besides nutritional items, other substances which may be ingested include medications, recreational drugs, and substances considered inedible such as foreign bodies or excrement. Ingestion is a common route taken by pathogenic organisms and poisons entering the body.
Ingestion is a common route taken by pathogenic organisms and poisons entering the body. Ingestion can also refer to a mechanism picking up something and making it enter an internal hollow of that mechanism, e.g.  a grille was fitted to prevent the pump from ingesting driftwood .
Ingestion is the act of eating or drinking, digestion is what the body does to the food or drink you have consumed, it removes all the nutrients and then pass on the waste. 13 people found this useful. Edit. Digestion is the breaking down of chemicals in the body, into a form that can be absorbed. It is also the process by which the body breaks down chemicals into smaller componen … ts that can be absorbed by the blood stream.
• INGESTION (noun). The noun INGESTION has 1 sense: 1. the process of taking food into the body through the mouth (as by eating). Familiarity information: INGESTION used as a noun is very rare. 
Ingestion is the consumption of a substance by an organism. In animals, it normally is accomplished by taking in the substance through the mouth into the gastrointestinal tract, such as through eating or drinking. In single-celled organisms, ingestion can take place through taking the substance through the cell membrane. Ingestion can also refer to a mechanism picking up something and making it enter an internal hollow of that mechanism, e.g.  a grille was fitted to prevent the pump from ingesting driftwood .
1. ingestion-the process of taking food into the body through the mouth (as by eating). consumption, intake, uptake. eating, feeding-the act of consuming food. deglutition, swallow, drink-the act of swallowing; one swallow of the liquid was enough; he took a drink of his beer and smacked his lips. 
Part of the Database glossary: Data ingestion is the process of obtaining, importing, and processing data for later use or storage in a database. This process often involves altering individual files by editing their content and/or formatting them to fit into a larger document.