WO. Hi, I am currently running Office 365 Home Premium and I have the Outlook part hooked up to my Gmail account. In order to get the Contacts and calendar items to sync with my iPhone (and Gmail), I have an add-on, which does not work with Office 365. So here is what I was hoping to do.
For example, you can backup your iPhone contacts to Gmail, you can sync iCloud or Exchange contacts with Gmail, or you can perform syncs in one direction only (such as Gmail to iPhone). 
Outlook and Gmail have separate address books. They don’t sync, which means that if you change your contacts in one or the other, then you have one address book that remains unchanged. Here’s how to keep your address books synced with free, open-source software. Before you can install GO Contact Sync Mod, you need to download and install the Microsoft .NET Framework 3.5. Then you can install GO Contact Sync Mod and start keeping your Gmail and Outlook contacts in perfect harmony.
Google Apps Sync for Microsoft Outlook® allows you to use Microsoft Outlook® 2003, 2007, 2010 and 2013 effectively with Google Apps. You get the cost savings, security and reliability of Google Apps, while employees can use the interface they prefer for email, contacts, calendar and notes. 
Import your contacts from Google Gmail to Outlook. Log on to your Google Gmail account. In the left column, click Contacts. On the right side of your screen, above the message count, click Export. Click Outlook CSV (for import into Outlook clients) . Only contacts can be exported directly from Outlook to Google Gmail. In Outlook, on the File menu, click Import and Export. Click Export to a file, and then click Next. Click Comma Separated Value (DOS) 
Move your iPhone contacts to Gmail and Outlook, or vice-versa. Use iTunes to export your iPhone contacts to Outlook--and Gmail, if you choose not to go the Google Sync route described above. Plug your iPhone into your PC, choose the device in iTunes' left pane, and select the Info tab. Pick either Outlook or Google Contacts in the Sync contacts from drop-down menu. (Yahoo Address Book and Windows Address Book are the other options.) For Outlook, you can choose which groups to sync.
IMPORTANT: If your intent is to sync your Gmail contacts & groups with your iPhone/iPad, please consider using Contacts Sync for Google Gmail at the App Store as it can sync your Google contact groups. Description. Contact Mover & Account Sync allows you to quickly and easily sync or move contacts between any pair of iPhone or iPad contact accounts. This app can be used in a number of creative ways. For instance, you can merge your corporate Exchange contacts into your personal local address book or vice versa.
Sync contacts and calendars between Outlook, Gmail, and iPhone. Google Calendar Sync and Gmail's Contacts export and import let you combine information stored in Outlook, your iPhone or other smartphone, and Google's services. Plug your iPhone into your PC, choose the device in iTunes' left pane, and select the Info tab. Pick either Outlook or Google Contacts in the Sync contacts from drop-down menu. (Yahoo Address Book and Windows Address Book are the other options.) For Outlook, you can choose which groups to sync.
Getting started with Google Sync. Customize Mail, Calendar, and Contact settings. Encryption on iOS. To sync Google Apps such as Gmail, Calendar, or Contacts with your iPhone ® , iPad ® or other iOS devices (such as, iPod Touch ® or Mac ®) you need to set up Google Sync on each of the devices individually. This article is for Google Apps for Work, Education, and Government users. 