The medial collateral ligament (MCL or tibial collateral ligament) is one of the four major ligaments of the knee. It is on the medial (inner) side of the knee joint in humans and other primates. 
Knee ligament injuries are common, especially a tear to the Medial Collateral Ligament. The MCL is one of four ligaments that helps stabilise the knee and is found on the inner side of the knee joining the femur (thigh bone) and the tibia (shin bone). An MCL tear is where the medial collateral ligament on the inner side of the knee gets overstretched and damaged. It is most commonly caused by a sudden twisting force through the knee, which damages some or all the fibres of the ligament. It can lead to swelling, pain and instability.
Learn the Causes of an MCL Tear, plus Prevention and Treatment Strategies. MCL tear, or MCL sprain, is another common knee injury, which typically affects athletes involved in contact sports, such as football, gridiron and soccer. MCL tear and MCL sprain are commonly referred to as a Medial Collateral Ligament Injury. If you suffer from MCL tear or MCL sprain, or are seeking to prevent its occurrence, it is important to follow the information in this article. As with any other sprain, a MCL injury is the result of excessive stretching or tearing of the ligament. The severity of the injury can range from a slight stretching to a complete rupture
Injuries to the MCL commonly occur as a result of a strong force hitting the outside of the knee that causes the MCL — and, possibly, other ligaments on the inside of the knee, such as the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) — to stretch or tear. 1  Show More. 
Injuries to the medial collateral ligament most often happen when the knee is hit directly on its outer side. This stretches the ligaments on the inside of the knee too far or can tear them. It is not uncommon for athletes to suffer tears of the medial collateral ligament and anterior cruciate ligament at the same time. Print. The medial collateral ligament (MCL) is a wide, thick band of tissue that runs down the inner part of the knee from the thighbone (femur) to a point on the shinbone (tibia) about four to six inches from the knee.
Medial Knee Ligament Injury. A medial ligament sprain or MCL injury is a tear of the ligament on the inside of the knee, usually a result of twisting or direct impact. Medial ligament injuries are common in contact sports such as football and rugby, as well as martial arts. Causes. Injury to the MCL often occurs after an impact to the outside of the knee when the knee is slightly bent. The ligament on the inside of the knee becomes stretched and if the force is great enough, some or even all of the fibres will tear.
MCL Tear. An MCL tear is where the medial collateral ligament on the inner side of the knee gets overstretched and damaged. It is most commonly caused by a sudden twisting force through the knee, which damages some or all the fibres of the ligament. It can lead to swelling, pain and instability.
The medial collateral ligament (MCL) is located on the inside of the knee. Ligaments hold bones together; the MCL connects the top of the shinbone (tibia) to the bottom of the thighbone (femur). Ligaments also add stability and strength to a joint. Injury to the MCL is often called an MCL sprain. Ligament injuries can either stretch the ligament or tear it. MCL injury of the knee is usually caused by a direct blow to the knee. This type of injury is common in contact sports, and it is usually the result of a hit to the outer knee that stretches the MCL