As an atmospheric gas, no. The oxygen in the atmosphere exists as carbon dioxide, CO2. This gas makes up 95% of the very, very thin air there. At that far distance from the Sun, Mars does not receive much energy from the Sun and the temperatures are below freezing on average.
Earth's atmosphere, on the other hand, is mostly nitrogen (78%) and oxygen (21%) with 1% being a mix of hydrogen, carbon dioxide and others. So you can see that Mars has much less atmosphere than the Earth does and oxygen make a proportionally much smaller fraction of of what there is than what we have on Earth.
There is a small amount of gaseous oxygen in the atmosphere of Mars, about 0.13%. Most of the oxygen in the atmosphere is there as carbon dioxide, CO2. This gas makes up 95% of the very, very thin atmosphere. However, there is still quite a lot more oxygen on Mars-as iron oxides.
If you mean molecular oxygen, O2, then no, there is no more than trace amounts on Mars (compared to the Earth which has an atmosphere composed of over 20% O2). Our atmosphere is mostly nitrogen (N2) followed by oxygen (O2) with smaller amounts of argon and carbon dioxide.
Mars has an atmosphere, though it is different than our atmosphere here on Earth. The atmosphere of Mars is thin, cold, and dry and contains much less oxygen than the atmosphere of Earth. The oxygen content of the Martian atmosphere is only 0.13 percent, compared with 21 percent in Earth's atmosphere. Carbon dioxide makes up 95.3 percent of the gas in the atmosphere of Mars. It also contains nitrogen and argon and very small amounts of water and methane.
The instrument is known as MOXIE (Mars Oxygen In-Situ Resources Utilization Experiment). It will pull carbon dioxide from the thin Martian atmosphere, which is composed of about 96 percent CO2, and turn it into pure oxygen and carbon monoxide, said Michael Hecht of MIT, the instrument's principal investigator.
It has no *free* oxygen in its atmosphere. But of course there is plenty of oxygen chemically combined with carbon in the carbon dioxide atmosphere, and in the iron oxide of the rock and soil, and probably in the water that scientists are so sure must still exist as ice on Mars. campbelp2002 · 7 years ago.