Your references should begin on a new page separate from the text of the essay; label this page References centered at the top of the page (do NOT bold, underline, or use quotation marks for the title). All text should be double-spaced just like the rest of your essay. 1 All lines after the first line of each entry in your reference list should be indented one-half inch from the left margin. 2  This is called hanging indentation. 3  Authors' names are inverted (last name first); give the last name and initials for all authors of a particular work for up to and including seven authors.
Citation in the text. When you are writing, every time you use or refer to an idea or piece of information that you learnt from a text, you should include a reference to the source. This is called a citation. You should include a citation with: 1  direct quotes. 2  paraphrases of someone else's writing. 3  references to other people's ideas and works
Organize your information in the proper order and write it down. 1  The format for an MLA reference is as follows: Surname of author, Given name. 2  The author's surname and given name should be capitalized, as well as the book's title, publication city, and publisher. 3  Write the title of the book in italics or underline if you are writing your 4  ... 3 .... 1. Find all the information that you will need in order to reference your source appropriately. 1  Write down the book title and the author's surname and initial of their given name, as well as the complete title of the book. 2  You can find this information on the cover of the book or in one of the first pages.
Essay references. Often the final task in the process of writing an essay is to compile your bibliographic information (i.e. a list of the texts you have referred to in the essay). This information will take one of two forms:
1. Find all the information that you will need in order to reference your source appropriately. 1  Write down the title of the book and the author's full name, which is usually found on the book's cover. 2  Find the name of the publisher, city of publication and date of publication on one of the book's first few pages. 1. Find all the information that you will need in order to reference your source appropriately. 1  Write down the book title and the author's surname and initial of their given name, as well as the complete title of the book. 2  You can find this information on the cover of the book or in one of the first pages.
At the End [edit]. At the end of your essay you should include a list of references. Such a list of references provides more details than just the name of the author and the year of publication. It’s this list that allows identifying the work cited. Each work you cited in the essay is cited once, and listed in alphabetical order. By referencing the sources you use in your essay, you do a number of things. First of all, you comply with an academic convention. Secondly, you make your essay look more professional. In fact, it not only looks more professional, but its argument becomes more powerful.
Your reference list should appear at the end of your paper. It provides the information necessary for a reader to locate and retrieve any source you cite in the body of the paper. Each source you cite in the paper must appear in your reference list; likewise, each entry in the reference list must be cited in your text. 1 All lines after the first line of each entry in your reference list should be indented one-half inch from the left margin. 2  This is called hanging indentation. 3  Authors' names are inverted (last name first); give the last name and initials for all authors of a particular work for up to and including seven authors.
Although a quote from an expert can add impact to your essay, in most cases you should try to either paraphrase or summarize the information, using citation to reference your source. However, when you do use direct quotations, follow these rules: 1  Insert the quotation exactly as it was written, errors and all. 
Creating a list of references for an essay will depend upon which reference style you will be using, as each has its own formatting method. There are many reference styles that you can use including MLA, APA and Chicago Manual. 1. Find all the information that you will need in order to reference your source appropriately. 1  Write down the book title and the author's surname and initial of their given name, as well as the complete title of the book. 2  You can find this information on the cover of the book or in one of the first pages.