Patient Care Coordinator Salary. Patient Care Coordinator average salary is $44,785, median salary is $43,680 with a salary range from $27,470 to $93,746. Patient Care Coordinator salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. 
Pros and Cons of a Patient Care Coordinator Career. Patient care coordinators are typically registered nurses with years of experience who manage the patient care services of a healthcare facility or department. Evaluate the pros and cons of this career to decide if you want to become a patient care coordinator. Job Description and Duties. Patient care coordinators are typically registered nurses (RNs) who act as liaisons between healthcare providers and patients. As a coordinator, you may supervise caregivers, manage patient cases and provide direct patient care when necessary.
Registered Nurses or Office Managers of Dental Offices are common next-step roles for Patient Care Coordinators moving up in their careers; annual pay for Registered Nurses is $20K higher on average, and it's $6K higher for Office Managers of Dental Offices. Patient care coordinators provide information, education, and advocacy for the care of the patient. It is the patient care coordinator's responsibility to assist leadership in developing program visions, goals, and objectives.
Salary. The average salary for patient services coordinators is $47,000, according to a regional search of available jobs by simplyhired.com. The national average is $42,633, according to salary.com. Salary information is current as of June 2008. 
According to Payscale.com, annual earnings for a patient care coordinator ranged from $28,660 to $68,533, as of September 2014. Duties of a patient care coordinator vary widely depending on the facility in which the coordinator works. The main job of a patient care coordinator is to ensure high quality health care. A coordinator helps to ensure patients understand every aspect of their care while also working with administration to create policies and make decisions that are in the best interest of the patients.
The larger portion of Patient Coordinators in the United States are women. Median pay in this female-dominated area goes for around $15.36 per hour. Location and career duration each impact pay for this group, with the former having the largest influence. Pay by Experience Level for. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Patient Coordinators do not generally earn higher incomes from more experience in the field. Salaries for the relatively untried average out to around $31K, but survey participants with five to 10 years of experience earn a significantly higher median of $35K
Salary and Qualifications. The average annual salary for patient care coordinators was $31,000 as of 2013, according to the job site Indeed. Educational requirements vary according to the types of patients and institutions in which these coordinators work. A patient care coordinator may earn more in certain industries. For example, in 2012, health-care social workers earned the highest salaries of $61,750 working in specialty hospitals — cardiology or cancer units — according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Essential Information. A patient care coordinator's job is to ensure that a medical facility is providing high quality care services. They work with administration, staff, and patients to reach health care goals and to keep the lines of communication open. Some are registered nurses, but this often is not mandatory. The main job of a patient care coordinator is to ensure high quality health care. A coordinator helps to ensure patients understand every aspect of their care while also working with administration to create policies and make decisions that are in the best interest of the patients.