The Rosetta Stone The Rosetta Stone What is the Rosetta Stone? The Rosetta Stone is a stone with writing on it in two languages (Egyptian and Greek), using three scripts (hieroglyphic, demotic and Greek). 
The Rosetta Stone is, therefore, no longer unique, but it was the essential key to modern understanding of Ancient Egyptian literature and civilization. The term Rosetta Stone is now used in other contexts as the name for the essential clue to a new field of knowledge. This article is about the decree stone. For other uses, see Rosetta Stone (disambiguation) . The Rosetta Stone is a granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis, Egypt, in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V.
a stone slab, found in 1799 near Rosetta, bearing inscriptions in Greek, hieroglyphic, and demotic characters, enabling the decipherment of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics. 1. Rosetta Stone-a part of an inscribed granite stela that was originally about six feet tall and was set up in 196 BC; the inscriptions in hieroglyphics and Demotic and Greek gave the first clues to the decipherment of
• ROSETTA STONE (noun). The noun ROSETTA STONE has 1 sense: 1. a part of an inscribed granite stela that was originally about six feet tall and was set up in 196 BC; the inscriptions in hieroglyphics and Demotic and Greek gave the first clues to the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphics.
Languages of the Rosetta Stone: The Rosetta Stone is inscribed in 3 languages: 1  Demotic (the everyday script, used to write documents), 2  Greek (the language of Ionian Greeks, an administrative script), and. 3  Hieroglyphs (for priestly business).
Rosetta Stone. The Rosetta Stone is an ancient Egyptian granodiorite stele inscribed with a decree issued at Memphis in 196 BC on behalf of King Ptolemy V. The decree appears in three scripts: the upper text is Ancient Egyptian hieroglyphs, the middle portion Demotic script, and the lowest Ancient Greek. Rosetta Stone (noun). a part of an inscribed granite stela that was originally about six feet tall and was set up in 196 BC; the inscriptions in hieroglyphics and Demotic and Greek gave the first clues to the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphics.
Definition of ROSETTA STONE. 1. : a black basalt stone found in 1799 that bears an inscription in hieroglyphics, demotic characters, and Greek and is celebrated for having given the first clue to the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphics. 2. : one that gives a clue to understanding. See Rosetta stone defined for kids. 
1. a stone slab, found in 1799 near Rosetta, bearing parallel inscriptions in Greek, Egyptian hieroglyphic, and demotic characters, making possible the decipherment of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics. 2. a clue, breakthrough, or discovery that provides crucial knowledge for the solving of a puzzle or problem. 
Definition of Rosetta Stone in English: 1 An inscribed stone found near Rosetta (now called Rashid) in Egypt in1799. Its text is written in three scripts: hieroglyphic, demotic, and Greek. The deciphering of the hieroglyphs by Jean-Francois François champollion in 1822 led to the interpretation of many other early records Of egyptian. civilization