Overview. Motor: Innervates a number of the extraocular muscles. Parasympathetic: Supplies the sphincter pupillae and the ciliary muscles of the eye. Sympathetic: No direct function, but sympathetic fibres run with the oculomotor nerve to innervate the superior tarsal muscle. Anatomical Course. The oculomotor nerve originates from the anterior aspect of the midbrain. It moves anteriorly, passing below the posterior cerebral artery, and above the superior cerebellar artery. The nerve pierces the dura mater and enters the lateral aspect of the cavernous sinus.
The oculomotor nerve is the third cranial nerve. It enters the orbit via the superior orbital fissure and innervates muscles that enable most movements of the eye and that raise the eyelid. The oculomotor nerve (CN III) arises from the anterior aspect of mesencephalon (midbrain). There are two nuclei for the oculomotor nerve: 1  The oculomotor nucleus originates at the level of the superior colliculus.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Oculomotor nerve palsy or third nerve palsy is an eye condition resulting from damage to the third cranial nerve or a branch thereof. As the name suggests, the oculomotor nerve supplies the majority of the muscles controlling eye movements. Thus, damage to this nerve will result in the affected individual being unable to move his or her eye normally.
Compressive oculomotor nerve damage could result in compression of the parasympathetic fibers before any disruption of the motor fibers occurs, since the parasympathetic fibers run on the outside of the nerve. As the name suggests, the oculomotor nerve supplies the majority of the muscles controlling eye movements. Thus, damage to this nerve will result in the affected individual being unable to move his or her eye normally.
The oculomotor nerve (Figs. 775, 776, 777) supplies somatic motor fibers to all the ocular muscles, except the Obliquus superior and Rectus lateralis; it also supplies through its connections with the ciliary ganglion, sympathetic motor fibers to the Sphincter pupillae pupillæ and The ciliaris. muscles 1. FIG. 775 Plan of oculomotor nerve. (See enlarged image). The fibers of the oculomotor nerve arise from a nucleus which lies in the gray substance of the floor of the cerebral aqueduct and extends in front of the aqueduct for a short distance into the floor of the third ventricle.
The nerve also contains fibers that innervate the muscles that enable pupillary constriction and accommodation (ability to focus on near objects as in reading). The oculomotor nerve is derived from the basal plate of the embryonic midbrain. Cranial nerves IV and VI also participate in control of eye movement. The oculomotor nerve (CN III) arises from the anterior aspect of mesencephalon (midbrain). There are two nuclei for the oculomotor nerve: 1  The oculomotor nucleus originates at the level of the superior colliculus.
Oculomotor nerve. The oculomotor nerve is the third of 12 pairs of cranial nerves in the brain. This nerve is responsible for eyeball and eyelid movement. It follows the olfactory and optic nerves in terms of order. The oculomotor nerve involves two separate components, each of which has a distinct function. 
The oculomotor nerve originates from the third nerve nucleus at the level of the superior colliculus, in the midbrain. The third nerve nucleus is located lateral to the cerebral aqueduct, on the pre-aqueductal grey matter. The oculomotor nerve (CN III) arises from the anterior aspect of mesencephalon (midbrain). There are two nuclei for the oculomotor nerve: 1  The oculomotor nucleus originates at the level of the superior colliculus.