Best Answer: The iPad needs 10w to fully charge-that's more than most USB ports provide. If you have a new-ish computer (like in the last couple years) you iPad should charge-just slowly-when it's asleep. If the screen is on, however, it's not charging. 
Plug in to a power source. Use the USB cable that came with your device and plug in to one of these power sources (if you’re using a third-party cable or accessory, make sure it’s Apple certified). 1  Power outlet: Use a USB power adapter and connect to a power outlet.harge your iPhone and iPod touch. Find out what you need to charge the battery and what to do if you see a low-battery alert on your device. When your iPhone or iPod touch is on, you’ll see the battery indicator in the upper-right corner of the screen. This shows how much battery life is left.
1 You can still charge an iPad with a 1 amp USB power adapter, but it will take longer than 5 hours to fully charge. 2  The iPad’s 2 amp charger is still safe to use with your other USB devices (iPhone, iPod, etc.) and will not damage them. 3  You can’t overcharge them. A couple notes here: 1 
The power adapter connects to the iPad through the bottom center port. This charger also comes with an Apple dock connector to USB cable that can be detached from its wall component to be used with any USB port on a computer where it will also charge your device. 
1 Computer: Make sure your computer is on and not in sleep mode, then connect to a USB 2.0 or 3.0 port. 2  Don’t use the USB ports on your keyboard. 3  Other USB power source: You can use a powered USB hub, docking station, or other accessory to charge your device. Charge your iPhone and iPod touch. Find out what you need to charge the battery and what to do if you see a low-battery alert on your device. When your iPhone or iPod touch is on, you’ll see the battery indicator in the upper-right corner of the screen. This shows how much battery life is left.
Charging the battery. You can charge your iPod battery by connecting it to an Apple iPod Power Adapter or by connecting it to a high-power USB port (or FireWire port, if applicable) on your computer. Using a power adapter. If you're using an Apple iPod Power Adapter, connect your iPod to the adapter using the USB or FireWire cable that came with your iPod. Then plug the adapter into a working electrical socket. Adapters are available from the Apple Online Store. Using your computer. If you want to charge your iPod using your computer, make sure that your computer is on, isn't sleeping (refer to the computer's manual to learn how to prevent your computer from sleeping while your iPod charges), and that the USB or FireWire port you use provides power.
You can also charge the iPad using a USB port on your desktop computer or laptop. With the exception of the iPad USB dock cable, no additional items are needed to charge the device from a laptop. Make sure the laptop is not hibernating or in any type of sleep mode. Insert the USB end of the iPad USB dock cable into an available USB port on your laptop. Insert the other end of the iPad USB dock cable into the slot on the bottom panel of the iPad.
Instructions. Connect your laptop to its power source. Make sure the laptop is not hibernating or in any type of sleep mode. Insert the USB end of the iPad USB dock cable into an available USB port on your laptop. Insert the other end of the iPad USB dock cable into the slot on the bottom panel of the iPad. The symbol printed on connector end of the dock cable should face forward