How Calcium Silicate is Made. Calcium silicate is made from amorphous silica, lime, reinforcing fibers, and other additives mixed with water in a batch-mixing tank to form a slurry. This slurry is pumped to the preheater, where it is heated to boiling and quickly poured into molds. The energy used to manufacture a linear foot of this size calcium silicate is only about 154,000 British thermal units; the ratio of energy used to predicted energy saved is 575:1 for 1 year and 11,500:1 for 20 years.
It is one of a group of compounds obtained by reacting calcium oxide and silica in various ratios e.g. 3CaO•SiO 2, Ca3SiO5; 2CaO•SiO 2, Ca 2 SiO 4; 3CaO•2SiO 2, Ca 3 Si 2 O 7 and CaO•SiO 2, CaSiO3. Calcium silicate is a white free-flowing powder derived from limestone and diatomaceous earth. Calcium silicate is commonly used as a safe alternative to asbestos for high temperature insulation materials. Industrial grade piping and equipment insulation is often fabricated from calcium silicate. Its fabrication is a routine part of the curriculum for insulation apprentices
Asbestos in Calcium Silicate and Other Materials. Calcium silicate is a compound made by mixing the elements calcium and silicon. The most commonly used industrial form of this compound is also known by a proprietary brand name, Cal-Sil ®. In general there is no particular asbestos risk associated with the use of today’s calcium silicate; today calcium silicate is used as a substitute for asbestos.
Thermo-12 ® Gold Calcium Silicate Pipe and Block insulation is the product of choice for high temperature pipe and equipment due to it's high strength and durability, low thermal conductivity and corrosion inhibiting performance. Thermo-12 ® Gold Calcium Silicate insulation is especially recommended for use in the petrochemical, power generation and process industries where piping and equipment operating up to 1200°F (650°C).
Alite is a name for tricalcium silicate, Ca 3 SiO 5, sometimes formulated as 3CaO·SiO 2 (C 3 S in cement chemist notation, CCN). It is the major, and characteristic, mineral phase in Portland cement. The name was given by Toerneborn törneborn in 1897 to a crystal identified in microscopic investigation Of portland. cement The only explanation for the discovery of these silicate phases not normally expected in lime mortar is that they have been formed by the hydration of calcium silicate such as Ca 3 SiO 5 (C 3 S) or Ca 2 SiO 4 (C 2 S) formed at high temperature along calcium oxide in the lime kiln.
A form of calcium silicate, known as betite, is often found in cement. Calcium silicate is also used in plastics and as an emulsifier in paint. Calcium silicate is used today in fireproof insulation as a safer alternative to asbestos. In general there is no particular asbestos risk associated with the use of today’s calcium silicate; today calcium silicate is used as a substitute for asbestos.
Calcium silicate passive fire protection board being clad around steel structure in order to achieve a fire-resistance rating. Calcium silicate (often referred to by its shortened trade name Cal-Sil or Calsil) is the chemical compound Ca 2 SiO 4, also known as calcium orthosilicate and sometimes formulated 2CaO.SiO 2. Calcium silicate is commonly used as a safe alternative to asbestos for high temperature insulation materials. Industrial grade piping and equipment insulation is often fabricated from calcium silicate. Its fabrication is a routine part of the curriculum for insulation apprentices