Bachelor's Degree. A bachelor's degree in zoology or biology is common for zoologists. In addition to courses in zoology and wildlife biology, aspiring zoologists complete courses in other sciences, including cellular biology, anatomy, ecology, genetics, chemistry and physics.
Zoologists are required to have a minimum of a bachelor’s degree in a field such as zoology, biology, wildlife biology or ecology with coursework in anatomy, wildlife management, cellular biology or even botany, physics and chemistry.
How To Become A Zoologist. The extent of a zoology education depends on the specific career desired. A zoology student may want to become a full veterinarian or simply a sales rep. In the latter's case, a bachelor's degree and sales experience may be sufficient.
Entry-level positions require at least a bachelor's degree. Zoologists typically earn degrees in zoology, wildlife biology, ecology, or general biology. Coursework often includes classes on animal behavior and physiology, parasitology, virology, ecology, chemistry, mathematics, and statistical software.
However, most zoologists have a graduate degree. With a master's degree in biology, zoology, or a related discipline, you may be able to get certain research positions in government or industry, or you could become a research assistant to an academic zoologist.
Some other things to keep in mind when you want to become a zoologist: 1  Career opportunities after graduate school do exist, but most are assistant positions or technician positions. 2  You will need a doctoral degree in zoology in order to become a research scientists or apply for any teaching positions in the field.
Zoology is a branch of biology that is concerned with the study of animals. The word zoology comes from the Greek word zoom and logos meaning animal and study respectively. Zoologists are also referred to as animal biologists or animal scientists. The field of study of zoologists is known as zoology.
For some positions as a zoologist, you may need only a bachelor's degree, while others may require you to earn a master's degree or a PhD. If you are interested in applied research, teaching or product development, a bachelor's or master's degree may be sufficient.
To become a zoologist, you need to begin by earning a Bachelor of Science degree in zoology or a closely related field such as environmental science or biology.