Orgonite is a substance made of resin, metals and quartz that strengthens your body’s energy field, helping to protect you from man-made EMF radiation and negative energy. Orgonite can help improve your life physically, emotionally and spiritually. Dr Wilhelm Reich, an Austrian psychiatrist, researched orgone energy (also known as chi or prana) in the earlier half of the 20th century, and today’s orgonite devices are built on his findings. It is a 50-50 mix of resin (organic, due to the fact that it is based on petrochemicals), and metal shavings (inorganic). A quartz crystal is also added to the orgonite mix.
Orgonite is a material, a formulation, first developed by Karl Welz for his Radionics devices. However, Welz’ forumlation differs from the material that Don Croft pioneered. Welz’ employs formulation consists of powdered metal and quartz in a resin substrate. There has been a controversy, regarding the name “Orgonite”, in that Welz claims to have Registered the Trademark Orgonite. We refute that, as the term was in popular use before Welz filed for his Trademark.
Making Orgonite® Devices: 1  Set up and prepare your ingredients and protective/ safety equipment. 2  Work out how much resin you are going to need. 3  Spray your molds with a light coating of oil. 4  If you are making a holy hand grenade push your marble into the neck of the funnel. 
Orgonite is a mixture of catalyzed fiberglass resin with metal shavings, poured into molds. Crystals, essential oils, high vibration organic materials can be added to the mixture for their ability to make the energy more coherent or to enhance the working of the orgonite. The resin in orgonite shrinks during the curing process, permanently squeezing the quartz crystal inside, which creates a piezoelectric effect inside the crystal, meaning its endpoints become polarized electrically, this apparently causes it to function more effectively as a positive energy generator.
This is a video explaining what orgonite is and how the energy works. If you are interested in purchasing large powerful orgonites, I have them for sale at this etsy store https://www.etsy.com/shop/Orgoniteology Here is a bit of an update. 
Orgonite is based on these two principles. It is a 50-50 mix of resin (organic, due to the fact that it is based on petrochemicals), and metal shavings (inorganic). A quartz crystal is also added to the orgonite mix. This is because of its piezoelectric properties, which means that it gives off a charge when it is put under pressure (resin shrinks when it is cured, so constant pressure is put on the quartz crystal)
The name Orgonite comes from ‘Orgone’ Energy, studied most famously by Wilhelm Reich. He used a modified Geiger counter to measure etheric energy in the air around us. He named it ‘Orgone’ Energy. This same energy is known around the world in different cultures as Chi, Ki, Prana, Ether & Life Force. Quick Facts About Orgonite / Orgone Energy Devices: 1  They turn negative energy into positive energy. ( 2 Deadly ORgone to Positive ORgone). 3  They help purify the atmosphere around them, as well as detoxify water. 4  Works against harmful EMF radiation, mitigating damaging effects. 5  Encourage plant and vegetable growth.
So, what are orgonite pyramids, and what do they do? The word orgonite comes from “orgone”, the name given by Wilheim Reich to vital energy found everywhere in nature. Also called chi, prana, ether, elan, elan vital, or the fifth element, this energy exists, in a natural way, under many different forms. The resin in orgonite shrinks during the curing process, permanently squeezing the quartz crystal inside, which creates a piezoelectric effect inside the crystal, meaning its endpoints become polarized electrically, this apparently causes it to function more effectively as a positive energy generator.
Anyone can build these devices with easy to find materials. Orgonite is simply a mix (approx. 50/50 ratio) of metal and resin (polyester, urethane or epoxy). It can be poured into all kinds of shapes: pyramids, cones, disks, cylinders and pendants, to name a few. My Experiences and Reactions from People. My first orgonite device had a two gallon base of orgonite with standing metal pipes anchored in it. I prefer to call it a Harmonizer because I feel that this device has a harmonizing influence upon its environment.
By the way a good experiment with orgonite is placing an orgonite device in the microwave, it will not heat up. Also Orgonite is not detected by metal detectors no mater how much metal is in the orgonite, what type of metal, or the sensitivity of the detector, quite interesting. 