Quote 2) 15 Square Metres Budget Decking to Grass/Shrub-land Area. This quote is also for 15 square metres of budget range decking, but this time laid onto an existing grass/mud/shrub-land. This will require extra work; leveling the ground, installing foundation posts and extra waste disposal of cleared ground material: The cost to have timber decking installed will obviously depend on the quality of the product you choose, here is an overview of the types of decking available: 1  Budget Range – These products are usually pressure treated pine. 2  They are affordable, popular and can be easily fixed with nails and screws.
Tell us what you think. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on eBay.co.uk in the past 14 days or, if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Follow square meters decking to get email alerts and updates on your eBay feed. Unfollow square meters decking to stop getting updates on your eBay feed. Great.
Softwood Pine timber decking installation will cost from £100.00 to £110.00 per square metre, with balustrade to match costing £90.00 per linear metre. Although Cedar is softwood and in some cases softer than pine should not get confused with a budget installation. The cost for a cost effective/standard hardwood deck (not ipe) will be from £190 to £220 sq m this will be a simple design, cheaper hardwood material, pre-drilled and countersunk holes.
Quote 1) 15 Square Metres Budget Decking on Existing Patio. For this quote we wanted 15 square metres of cheap budget pressure treated decking to a garden that already has a patio installed. The cost to have timber decking installed will obviously depend on the quality of the product you choose, here is an overview of the types of decking available: 1  Budget Range – These products are usually pressure treated pine. 2  They are affordable, popular and can be easily fixed with nails and screws.
Hidden fixing systems can cost from £200 and also Exterpark at a similar cost (£240 plus). Decks can cost an unimaginable amount for fine teak or if a thicker decking board is used. For a 35mm thickness commercial deck constructed from Ipe the cost would be in the hundreds per sq m. The cost for a cost effective/standard hardwood deck (not ipe) will be from £190 to £220 sq m this will be a simple design, cheaper hardwood material, pre-drilled and countersunk holes.
Sanding and treating a well maintained timber deck such as balau or teak costs approximately R50-R100 per square meter per year. 4Everdeck is not prone to the weaknesses of wooden decking such as mold, termites and decay. It maintains its beautiful look each and every year. When selecting a decking material, maintenance is not often factored into the cost. Commercial establishments such as restaurants cannot afford to have their wooden decks out of commission for a few days a year and 4 Everdeck® is a natural choice for them.
Decking cost Calculator, Decking labour rates and decking cost per sq m. The cost of all types of decking explained, Composite, Softwood and Hardwood decking prices. The cost for a cost effective/standard hardwood deck (not ipe) will be from £190 to £220 sq m this will be a simple design, cheaper hardwood material, pre-drilled and countersunk holes.
1 Pressure treated timber, the type found in the budget range. 2  These cost from £14 per square metre, supply-only. 3  Premium hardwood, typically costing around £90 per square metre, supply-only. The cost to have timber decking installed will obviously depend on the quality of the product you choose, here is an overview of the types of decking available: 1  Budget Range – These products are usually pressure treated pine. 2  They are affordable, popular and can be easily fixed with nails and screws.
Decking Calculator. Our nifty decking calculator is just the job if you’re having trouble working out how many decking boards you need for your next project. Just follow the instructions below and once you know how many boards you need, nip over to our online shop to see our complete range of decking boards. How to use the Decking Calculator: Firstly work out your sq metre coverage by multiplying Width x Depth. Eg. If your width is 6m and your depth is 2m. 6(w) x 2(d) = 12sqm. Then find the closest sqm to what you require. From this you can then find out how many boards you require: