You can measure the entire floor area. Cut the vinyl 3 inches wider than the floor area on all sides, and then trim the excess after laying it in place. This method works well with rooms that are easy to fit with few angles or obstacles. Alternatively, make a template of the floor layout. Estimating How Much Sheet Vinyl You Need. Measure the area of the room in square yards. To get square yards, first calculate square feet: Measure the length and width of the room. Length (feet) x Width (feet) = Square Feet. Square Feet / 9 (square feet in a yard) = Square Yards. For example, a 12 ft.
Top Layer-Finish Floor: The finish floor, such as hardwood, laminate, or tile. Second Layer Down-Underlayment: Plywood, fiberboard, or cementboard, and is usually either 1/4 or 1/2. Third Layer Down-Subfloor: Subfloor will already be in place (unless this home is under construction). Often, the existing finish floor or subfloor are in such bad condition that installing underlayment is necessary. If you are building a new house, the subfloor itself may be adequate for installation of the finish floor--eliminating the need for underlayment.
1 Concrete: Sheet vinyl can be installed over concrete if the surface of the concrete is clean, smooth and dry. 2  Repair any holes or cracks. 3  You can lower high spots with a grinder. 4  Any minor bumps can be removed with a masonry chisel and small sledgehammer. ( 5 Wear safety glasses.). Estimating How Much Sheet Vinyl You Need. Measure the area of the room in square yards. To get square yards, first calculate square feet: Measure the length and width of the room. Length (feet) x Width (feet) = Square Feet. Square Feet / 9 (square feet in a yard) = Square Yards. For example, a 12 ft.
Thickness Requirements. OSB doesn't hold nails as well as plywood, so an OSB subfloor needs to be thicker. If the joists are spaced 16 inches on centers or less, the minimum required thicknesses are 5/8 inches for plywood and 23/32 inches for OSB. Whether you're installing a hardwood floor on the first or second floor of a building, you need a solid subfloor that won't sag and that will hold nails. The two materials that most builders use are plywood and oriented strand board (OSB).
OSB is a less expensive alternative to plywood. Whether you're installing a hardwood floor on the first or second floor of a building, you need a solid subfloor that won't sag and that will hold nails. The two materials that most builders use are plywood and oriented strand board (OSB).
Existing floor is ceramic tile over cement over the 1x subfloor. Joists are 16 centers. Second layer of subfloor needs to be 3/4 to match floor height in adjacent family room which is a 3/4 plywood with some sort of finish on it. Both rooms will be finished in 3/4 hardwood.
Any bumps or irregularities in its surface can cause the vinyl flooring to wear, or possibly even tear. You can install vinyl over an old vinyl floor subfloor. In most cases, as long as the old vinyl surface is flat, you don’t need to do anything more for this type of underlayment. Concrete and wood subfloors each have their own subfloor preparation procedures. Test the floor for moisture. Tape a 3-foot-square piece of scrap vinyl to the concrete with duct tape, sealing the edges tight. Leave the vinyl in place for 72 hours. Pull it up. If the tape releases easily, the floor is too damp for vinyl.
Install Sheet Vinyl Flooring. Vinyl wears well, resists water and is one of the most affordable flooring options available. Installing a sheet vinyl floor is a manageable do-it-yourself project. The key to success is preparation. Estimating How Much Sheet Vinyl You Need. Measure the area of the room in square yards. To get square yards, first calculate square feet: Measure the length and width of the room. Length (feet) x Width (feet) = Square Feet. Square Feet / 9 (square feet in a yard) = Square Yards. For example, a 12 ft.
When installing the new underlayment, stagger the seams of the plywood panels, and leave a 1/32-inch gap between panels to allow for expansion. Leave a 1/8-inch gap along the walls. Always use the fasteners and fastening pattern recommended by the vinyl floor and plywood manufacturer. Estimating How Much Sheet Vinyl You Need. Measure the area of the room in square yards. To get square yards, first calculate square feet: Measure the length and width of the room. Length (feet) x Width (feet) = Square Feet. Square Feet / 9 (square feet in a yard) = Square Yards. For example, a 12 ft.