It turns out juggling is a workout for your brain, too. Juggling improves hand-eye coordination, reflexes, peripheral vision and a host of other motor skills [source: Rosenberger ].
Juggling Good for the Brain, Study Shows. LONDON, England (Reuters) -- It's a great party trick and useful for circus performers but scientists said this week that learning to juggle can cause changes in areas of the adult brain.
The benefits of juggling aren't just for entertainers trying to work a crowd. It's an aerobic exercise, it develops core strength, and the focus required to toss multiple objects from hand to hand can be a stress-relieving distraction. (That is, as long as you aren't juggling machetes or torches.).
But this latest study demonstrates an anatomical change as a result of learning — that is, the brain size actually expands. German researchers divided 24 non-jugglers into two groups and assigned one group to practice juggling for three months.
LONDON, England (Reuters) -- It's a great party trick and useful for circus performers but scientists said this week that learning to juggle can cause changes in areas of the adult brain. HEALTH LIBRARY.
Several studies have shown a correlation between juggling and changes in the brain's grey matter, the cell bodies responsible for computation and processing within the brain, and white matter, the nerve fibers that connect different parts of the brain by way of electrical impulses.
It's no longer just a party trick. Juggling might also enhance your brainpower. A new study published in the journal Nature finds that learning to juggle may cause certain areas of your brain to grow. The finding challenges conventional wisdom the structure of the brain cannot change except through aging and disease.
Juggling is a really good exercise for life. It has a lot of the fun parts of a soul sport (working to better yourself, non-competitive activity, etc.) but isn’t dangerous — unless you’re juggling fire or pancakes or something. That’s why I want everyone to learn.