The average ASDA salary ranges from approximately £8,000 per year for General Assistant to £70,000 per year for Store Manager. Average ASDA hourly pay ranges from approximately £5 per hour for Bakery Assistant to £10.29 per hour for Warehouse Worker. 
Posts: 7,879. i am a asda aces i work for asda, in an asda store, where an asda uniform.. but technically i am employed by city management. head office in Scotland. but the office in the wirrel Merseyside. is the one that deals with you....pay is 6.08 per hour..and work is very demanding.. The hours were ok but christmas week they were awful. My partners birthday is two days before christmas but i had to work 2 till 10, the two days after boxing day they made us come in at 6am which sucked big time. I enjoyed it while I was there as it was my first proper job.
Hi just came across this, just recently been offers a job at a new Asda opening in April ill be on the twighlight shift 8pm-1am and 5pm-1am on Sunday was wondering how much i would be on per hour any ideas? Reply. Reply. If that rate of pay is correct then it's more than my son is paid for a front-line security job working until 5am-he is fully trained and industry-licenced and had to undergo police checks before he could be employed.
I work at ASDA (days) but my other half used to work nights. Its over £8 an hr and working nights everyone becomes a real community as there aren't really many customers about so you can have a laugh. My dream job at the moment is to work at ASDA preferably at George. ASDA is one of the best places around with products that represent a great value for money. They also sell great chocolate/cookies. Best supermarket chain around by a clear mile.
Answers. Best Answer: Tesco night shift is 7.10 per hour plus night time premium which I think is 10.05. Asda pay is 6.50 per hour and about 7.85 night shift premium. 
ASDA HOURLY RATE. Hi I had an interview for Asda on Friday and have been offered a job doing 16 hours a week doing days on the check out. In all my excitement I forgot to ask the hourly rate. Also any advice on signing off and what to expect coming off benefits would be great. Hi, If you are over 21, min wage is 6.19 p/hour. Depending n what benefit you are/were on, you maybe eligible or an 'in work grant' Or Job grant. They look at length of time on benefits.
I'm not doing it but I imagine it'd be decent pay and of course you'd have the prestige of working at ASDA. My dream job at the moment is to work at ASDA preferably at George. ASDA is one of the best places around with products that represent a great value for money. They also sell great chocolate/cookies. Best supermarket chain around by a clear mile.
Current pay at Asda is 6.36 a hour for 6am-10pm and 8.40 for 10pm-6am. Unlikely you'll be able to avoid till training unless you're in the Bakery or Counters. Also be aware the hours aren't likely to be that social; even if you're dayshift it's likely you're gonna have to be there at 7am or stay till 10pm. Good luck. The hours were ok but christmas week they were awful. My partners birthday is two days before christmas but i had to work 2 till 10, the two days after boxing day they made us come in at 6am which sucked big time. I enjoyed it while I was there as it was my first proper job.
night rate in the store i work is 7.89 per hour and is paid between the hours of 10pm and 6am. However, you may have the wrong form, because evenings to me would suggest between 5pm and 10pm. Hey folks, well I went to get application forms for Asda today and the girl said they had three types of job going depending on times you wanted to work, so I got three forms, because I'd take anything if I got it but if I could choose I want the night shift.