Cocoa solids are a mixture of many substances remaining after cocoa butter is extracted from cacao beans. When sold as an end product, it may also be called cocoa powder, cocoa, and cacao. In contrast, the fatty component of chocolate is cocoa butter. Cocoa butter is 50% to 57% of the weight of cocoa beans and gives chocolate its characteristic melting properties. Cocoa liquor or cocoa mass is a paste of roasted cocoa beans with cocoa butter and solids in their natural proportions.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Cocoa powder is a powder which is obtained from cocoa solids, one of the two components of chocolate liquor. Chocolate liquor is a substance which is obtained during the manufacturing process which turns cacao beans into chocolate products. To produce cocoa powder, the cocoa solids are pressed again, ensuring that around 75% of the original cocoa butter has been removed, and creating a substance called press cake. The press cake is dried, and then ground into powder.
Cocoa powder is most frequently used as a coating on chocolate truffles! For a full listing of truffle recipes, see here. It's also used in other candy recipes, like Cocoa Mints, Chocolate Marshmallows, and Tiramisu Truffle Squares. (To learn more about chocolate production, see this article that explains how chocolate is made from bean to bar .) The resulting cocoa powder is low in fat, but has an intense chocolate taste. It is most commonly used in baked goods, where it is mixed with sugar and other fats, like butter, margarine, or coconut oil.
Cocoa is by no means a lesser product than chocolate. On the contrary, it’s a purer form of chocolate. Chocolate has two main components—cocoa solids (where the flavor comes from) and cocoa butter (where the rich texture comes from). Cocoa powder has very little cocoa butter in it; it’s mainly cocoa solids. My recipe for hot cocoa (front cup) uses cocoa powder (with milk) and it’s plenty chocolatey. The cup in the background is hot chocolate, made with chopped bittersweet chocolate. The cocoa butter makes it taste richer, but the chocolate flavor is more muted at first.
If you're making natural cocoa powder, that's the end of the line. Chocolate is naturally acidic, so natural cocoa powder typically has a pH between 5 and 6 (for context, water is 7, right in the middle). That acidity bears out in natural cocoa's flavor, which gives the cocoa a sharp, almost citrus fruit finish. 
Cocoa powder is an unsweetened powder produced by grinding cacao beans and pressing out the cocoa butter (fat). (To learn more about chocolate production, see this article that explains how chocolate is made from bean to bar .) The resulting cocoa powder is low in fat, but has an intense chocolate taste. It is most commonly used in baked goods, where it is mixed with sugar and other fats, like butter, margarine, or coconut oil.
Cocoa powder is commonly available in two varieties: natural cocoa powder, and alkalized, or dutch-processed, cocoa powder. Dutch-processing cocoa powder involves treating the cocoa with an alkali to reduce the acidity (and thus, remove sour flavors). (To learn more about chocolate production, see this article that explains how chocolate is made from bean to bar .) The resulting cocoa powder is low in fat, but has an intense chocolate taste. It is most commonly used in baked goods, where it is mixed with sugar and other fats, like butter, margarine, or coconut oil.
Cocoa powder comes from cocoa beans that grow in pods on the cacao tree. The beans are fermented, dried, roasted and cracked; the nibs are ground to extract about 75% of the cocoa butter, leaving a dark brown paste called chocolate liquor. After drying again, the mass is ground into powder (unsweetened cocoa). Recipes for baked goods usually use nonalkalized cocoa powder. You can often substitute one type of cocoa for the other, but if the recipe includes baking soda, it may be counting on the acid in natural cocoa in order to react. How to store: Store in an airtight container in a cool, dark place for up to 2 years.
Cocoa powder is made when chocolate liquor is pressed to remove three quarters of its cocoa butter. The remaining cocoa solids are processed to make fine unsweetened cocoa powder. There are two types of unsweetened cocoa powder: natural and Dutch-processed. 