Median Pay. The BLS reports a median annual wage for HVAC technicians of $43,640 or $20.98 per hour as of May 2012. The lowest 10 percent of workers earned less than $27,330 or $13.14 per hour, and the highest 10 percent earned more than $68,990 or $33.17 per hour.
I know it’s going to be hard to pay back that $15,000 or more student loan just making $15 an hour, but I can tell you this if you are working in Florida, Arizona, or anywhere for that matter when the demand for Hvac is in, and are working for a reputable company, then you can get some serious overtime. Hope this clears up some of the speculation of how much hvac technicians get paid, if you are in a different state than Florida or a different country, feel free to share with us hvac technician wages for those that are thinking of making this a career. Tagged as: hvac, money, pay, salary. { 0 comments… add one now }
An HVAC Technician can earn up to $35 per hour. That's not all. Of the trades, HVAC has the highest growth potential for salary. up to a 40% increase over the next three years. It is not uncommon for a well trained tech to earn 50 - 60,000 per year.
Salary of a HVAC technician depends on many factors. Anyway, the median pay for this kind of specialist in the United States is $41,000. Location influences your salary probably even more than experience, the only reason why we have put this factor on a second place is because concrete employer and his current situation mean more than just location. Let us explain. As a HVAC technician, you will find job in any state.
Vet techs fresh out of school can expect to earn between $12 - $14 in most states. As you gain experience that number goes up. Vet tech salary for those with about 5 years of experience earn between $36k - $40k per year on average. The median annual income for veterinary technicians was $28,000 per year in 2008. This number obviously goes up as you can more experience, knowledge, and skills.
HVAC Technician Salary By State. If you’re wondering how much do HVAC Technicians get paid then the salary information below will give detailed information for each state. Just scroll down to your state to find out the highest paid HVAC Techs for your region or state. Our state by state breakdown allows you to see which state is best to get a job as an HVAC Technician. The salary information provided below is off of real-world job listings for HVAC Technician and the pay offered for those jobs.
HVAC Salary. Salary of a HVAC technician depends on many factors. Anyway, the median pay for this kind of specialist in the United States is $41,000. In this research we have tried to analyze the main variables that influence HVAC salary, and below you can find them, most important are placed on top. Location influences your salary probably even more than experience, the only reason why we have put this factor on a second place is because concrete employer and his current situation mean more than just location. Let us explain. As a HVAC technician, you will find job in any state.
by Dave on. The salary of an Hvac service technician will vary depending on many factors, such as which region you are working in, whether or not you get commission, how much experience you have, and how many hours you are willing to work. Hope this clears up some of the speculation of how much hvac technicians get paid, if you are in a different state than Florida or a different country, feel free to share with us hvac technician wages for those that are thinking of making this a career. Tagged as: hvac, money, pay, salary. { 0 comments… add one now }
With heat, AC, and refrigerators in virtually every home and business, there is an amazingly large customer pool. As of 2010, the Bureau of Labor Statistics listed the median pay for HVAC technicians at $42,530 annually. This will vary state to state and from rural to urban environments, but for a significant portion of those who work in this field, their hourly wage will average over $20.00 per hour. There are opportunities for specialization in the HVAC field. Depending on the area where the technician lives, furnace repair can be an area of specialty, as well as installation and repair of air conditioning. Some HVAC technicians focus on residential and commercial refrigeration.