The word batik originates from the Javanese tik and means to dot. To make a batik, selected areas of the cloth are blocked out by brushing or drawing hot wax over them, and the cloth is then dyed. The parts covered in wax resist the dye and remain the original colour. This process of waxing and dyeing can be repeated to create more elaborate and colourful designs. Batik is both an art and a craft, which is becoming more popular and well known in the West as a wonderfully creative medium. The art of decorating cloth in this way, using wax and dye, has been practised for centuries.
[ˈbateʔ] ; [ˈbatɪk]) is a technique of wax-resist dyeing applied to whole cloth, or cloth made using this technique. Batik is made either by drawing dots and lines of the resist with a spouted tool called a canting (. [ʈ͡ʂantiŋ] , also spelled tjanting), or by printing the resist with a copper stamp called a cap (. [ʈ͡ʂap] , also spelled tjap).
Batik – the word is of Javanese and Indonesian origin and describes the coloured fabric and process of producing patterns by using fabric dyes and wax in the creation of the design. Multi-coloured batik allows for the production of complex patterns, akin to paintings. 
Batik fabric is generally thought of as the most quintessentially Indonesian textile. Batik is an art form. Motifs of flowers, twinning plants, leaves buds, flowers, birds, butterflies, fish, insects and geometric forms are rich in symbolic association and variety. The Symbolic Meaning of Batik Motifs. As in other fields of Javanese tradition the motifs of Batik material especially with older antique patterns symbolizes something. This might be one of the reasons why people still adore batik fabrics up to present date.
The patterns to be dyed into the cloth are drawn with a canting, a wooden 'pen' fitted with a reservoir for hot, and liquid wax. In batik workshops, circles of women sit working at clothes draped over frames, and periodically replenish their supply of wax by dipping their canting into a central vat. The Symbolic Meaning of Batik Motifs. As in other fields of Javanese tradition the motifs of Batik material especially with older antique patterns symbolizes something. This might be one of the reasons why people still adore batik fabrics up to present date.
A batik craftsman making batik, Malaysian batik are usually patterned with floral motifs with light colouring. Malaysian Batik is batik textile art of Malaysia, especially on the east coast of Malaysia (Kelantan, Terengganu and Pahang). The most popular motifs are leaves and flowers. Malaysian batik depicting humans or animals are rare because Islam norms forbid animal images as decoration
A Brief History. Although experts disagree as to the precise origins of batik, samples of dye resistance patterns on cloth can be traced back 1,500 years ago to Egypt and the Middle East. Samples have also been found in Turkey, India, China, Japan and West Africa from past centuries. Better quality batik may be waxed utilizing canting in one part of Indonesia and then sent to another part of Indonesia where the cap part of the process is completed. On better quality cap fabric great care is taken to match the pattern exactly.
Wearing right pattern in the right time by right people is very important in Yogyakarta, especially in kingdom family. Although in these days we can find all of these forbidden patterns and wear them, but better to know closely about the historical and beautiful meaning of the forbidden batik designs. :. Kawung Pattern. This can be the oldest pattern of batik. It depicts cross-section of aren-palm fruits and shows the seeds and center if the fruit. It also looks like a four petals blossoms simplified of lotus which means of purity. In other reference, the pattern can be evolved from fish scales.