You can find out where the majority of the Elio families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Elio ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Elio ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Eli (name). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Eli (/ˈiːlaɪ/) is a given name of Hebrew origin, from Biblical עֵלִי ascent, the name of Eli, the high priest in the Books of Samuel. In the United States, the popularity of the given name Eli was hovering around rank 200 in the 1880s. It declined gradually during the late 19th and early-to-mid 20th centuries, falling below rank 700 in 1964. In a significant revival of the name's popularity in the early 1970s, it bounced back above rank 400 in 1976.
[ 3 syll. e-lio, el-io ] The baby boy name Elio is pronounced EH Liyow †. Elio's language of origin is Old French and Old Greek, and it is used mainly in the Italian language. Elio is a form of the English Elliot. Elio is also an Italian form of the English and Greek Helios. See also the related form, the English, German, Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish Eliana. Elio is infrequently used as a baby name for boys. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names
You can find out when most of the Elio families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Elio ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Elio ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status.
Means sun in Greek. This was the name of the young Greek sun god, who rode across the sky each day in a chariot pulled by four horses. Related Names.
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Elio in Italian origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. List of Italian baby names, Italian baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Italian names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Italian baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
Comments and insights on the name Elio: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Elio: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Elio: | Edit. Lio (pronounced Lee-o in Italian unlike Leo, which in Italian is pronounced Lay-o). 
Eli /eli/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Eli) is pronounced EE-lye. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Eli is  high . Biblical: Eli was a priest and judge who brought up the prophet Samuel. A holy name that was popular among Puritans in the 17th century. It is also used as a nickname for Elias, Elijah, Eliot and Elisha. 
rare name. greek origin. many elio's strongly disagree with what is put on site in regards to the name elio. Im not a coward and I never been tried in true war and will never bow down to anyone or anyrhing that will destroy me. It sometimes happens that two different first names have the same meaning. This has nothing surprising: both first names have the same figures of numerology. It is as in astrology: two persons belonging to the same sign present the same characteristic...