Averages for dubai in November. Weather lowdown. Dubai is one of seven emirates of the United Arab Emirates, and is the most densely populated and most modern, making it a more popular holiday spot than many other places in the Middle East. While Arabic customs must be respected, Dubai is tolerable of other religions and non-muslim visitors are always welcome.
TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY IN DUBAI The weather in Dubai can be best described as humid. As indicated by the table below, there is very little variation in humidity throughout the year. Humidity remains high during winter as well, but weather conditions are very pleasant owing to lower temperatures.
Below is the typical weather in Dubai in October including day-time maximum and night-time minimum temperatures, monthly rainfall figures and the average number of daily hours of sunshine & daylight and sea temperature. On average 0 mm (0 inches) of rain normally falls in Dubai during October with very little chance of rain falling during the month. You can expect on average 10 hours of sunshine a day in Dubai during October.
Dubai is hot, dry and windy year round, but the cooler November temperatures of around 18°C to 31°C mean there’s very little humidity. There’s also very little rainfall, just 0.2 inches expected over the entire month. Weather-wise, November is considered one of the best times to visit Dubai. November is characterized by rapidly falling daily high temperatures, however it’s nothing to worry about, as daily highs decrease from a hot 33°C to 28°C over the course of the month, exceeding 35°C and dropping below 25°C, only one day in ten. Dubai is one of seven emirates of the United Arab Emirates, and is the most densely populated and most modern, making it a more popular holiday spot than many other places in the Middle East. While Arabic customs must be respected, Dubai is tolerable of other religions and non-muslim visitors are always welcome.
Dubai Weather by Month. Select a month from the list below to see the Dubai weather for a particular month. The monthly weather averages are the best indication of conditions in each month and are based on long-term (30 year) climate statistics. On average 0 mm (0 inches) of rain normally falls in Dubai during October with very little chance of rain falling during the month. You can expect on average 10 hours of sunshine a day in Dubai during October.
You will see about a maximum of 30 degrees centigrade and a minimum of 20 or below in the other two months. The humidity level rises up slightly during these months and could range between 60 and 65. According to the Dubai weather October and November has moderate rainfall while December has higher precipitation. Dubai Weather in April to June. You may feel the months between April and June to be slightly warmer. The average temperature is generally between 35 and 40 degrees centigrade.
Turning east to Dubai, the weather in October remains very hot and sunny, with 10 hours of almost unbroken sunshine, and high temperatures reaching 35°C. 
31°C (88°F) in October. The average maximum daytime temperature in Dubai in October is a very hot 35°C (95°F), while the average minimum night-time temperature is a warm 22°C (72°F). On average 0 mm (0 inches) of rain normally falls in Dubai during October with very little chance of rain falling during the month. You can expect on average 10 hours of sunshine a day in Dubai during October.
Share: Facebook Tweet Google+. The best time to visit Dubai is from October to April. Weather-wise, Dubai really only experiences two seasons: hot and hotter. During the winter months, the city sees blue skies and primo beach weather. However, this is also peak tourist season, so expect plenty of company on Jumeirah Beach
Learn About the 12 Month Dubai Climate. Dubai climate is generally warm most of the year. It's not so bad in the winter months, but summers are extremely hot. And the high humidity levels just make it unbearable. That said, the best time to plan a trip to Dubai is during the winter months. 