The incredible variety that exists in Mexico's culture is mirrored by its geography! Mexico is located in the northern region of the American continent between the Gulf of Mexico on the east and the Pacific Ocean on the west. It is bordered by the United States on the north and by Guatemala and Belize on the south. Mexico’s land area extends 1,964,375 sq km, which is divided into six tourist regions. Mexico, with its variety of geographical regions and climate variations, has something for just about anyone.
The western peninsula, which borders the U.S. state of California.Northern Mexico. Includes the deserts and mountains of the border states; mostly ignored by … tourists, this is Unknown Mexico.The Bajio. Historic states in a traditional silver-mining region.Central Mexico. The most  commonly associated states to such region are the states of  Guerrero, Oaxaca and Chiapas:     Guerrero … : 3,388,768  Oaxaca: 3,801,962  Chiapas: 4,796,580     Total population for southern Mexico (according to the 2010 census)  equals 11,987,310 people. 3 people found this useful.
Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). There are six regions within Mexico, that group the 31 different states and one Federal District according to socioeconomic similarities: 1  Northwestern Mexico, including the states of Baja California, Baja California Sur, Sonora, Sinaloa, Chihuahua and Durango
Mexico is in North America, the western and northern hemispheres. Central America is a region of the North American continent. You may see the site below and read the first paragraph, then click on the map on the right to enlarge it to see that north America encompasses all the land to the South American border. Canada, USA, & Mexico are the 3 North American countries. part of Mexico is in the Pacific rim. (Baja California in the North) Also, in the South some parts are actually in Central America. (Chiapas) The West is in pacific time, the south is in Central time.
Living and working at information systems companies for more than 10 years. Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). Geographically, it is in North America along with Canada and the United States. Culturally speaking, it is in Latin America, sharing common traits such as language, religion and overall traditions with other countries in Central and South America as well as many islands in the Caribbean. The most  commonly associated states to such region are the states of  Guerrero, Oaxaca and Chiapas:     Guerrero … : 3,388,768  Oaxaca: 3,801,962  Chiapas: 4,796,580     Total population for southern Mexico (according to the 2010 census)  equals 11,987,310 people. 3 people found this useful.
Mexico is bounded to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean,to the  east by the Gulf of Mexico, to the north by the United States, and  to the southeast by Belize, Guatemala, and the Caribbean Sea. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). There are six regions within Mexico, that group the 31 different states and one Federal District according to socioeconomic similarities:
Mexico is bounded to the west and south by the Pacific Ocean,to the east by the Gulf of Mexico, to the north by the United States, and to the southeast by Belize, Guatemala, and the Caribbean Sea. The most  commonly associated states to such region are the states of  Guerrero, Oaxaca and Chiapas:     Guerrero … : 3,388,768  Oaxaca: 3,801,962  Chiapas: 4,796,580     Total population for southern Mexico (according to the 2010 census)  equals 11,987,310 people. 3 people found this useful.
Mexico (Spanish: Mexico), méxico is a fascinating country In North, america lying between The United states Of america to the, north And guatemala And belize to the. southeast 
Northeast New Mexico is where the plains meet the mountains.. Visit Capulin Capulín Volcano National, monument an extinct volcanic (cone inactive now 10,000 10000) years and you can say you saw the plains Of, Colorado, oklahoma And. texas Heart of New Mexico. New Mexico's Central Region is the Heart of New Mexico.. In almost the geographic middle of the state sits Albuquerque, our largest city and only metropolitan area.