Macadamia nut nutrition facts. Sweet, delicious and flavorful macadamia nut is one of the popular edible nuts packed with notable health-benefiting nutrients. Botanically, macadamia belongs to the family of Proteaceae, in the genus: Macadamia. Some of common names include Australia nut, Queensland nut, bush nut, etc. 100 g of macadamia provides 8.6 g or 23% of daily-recommended levels of dietary fiber. Additionally, they are a very good source of phytosterols such as ss-ß. Sitosterol, however the nuts carry no. cholesterol
About Macadamia Nuts. Macadamia nuts come from the fruit of a large evergreen tree native to eastern Australia. Thousands of years before European settlement, the aborigines of Australia gathered the native nuts from rainforest floors and consumed them as snack
Macadamia species grow as small to large evergreen trees 2–12 m (6.6–39.4 ft) tall. The species previously named in this Macadamia genus may still be referred to overall by the descriptive, non-scientific name of macadamia; their disjunct distributions and current scientific names are: 1  New Caledonia endemic genus Virotia in 1975 having only the type species, then by 2008 all six endemic species.
7 Amazing Health Benefits Of Macadamia Nuts. Macadamia nuts are considered the world’s finest nuts (1). Macadamia nuts are small buttery flavoured nuts cultivated from macadamia nut trees that are grown in tropical climates of Australia, Brazil, Indonesia, Kenya, New Zealand and South Africa. There are about seven species of Macadamia nut grown all over the world, but only two are edible and are cultivated in horticultural farms all over the world. These two species are Macadamia integrifolia which produces smooth shelled nuts and Macadamia tetraphylla nuts which produces rough shelled nuts.
Sweet, delicious and flavorful macadamia nut is one of the popular edible nuts packed with notable health-benefiting nutrients. Botanically, macadamia belongs to the family of Proteaceae, in the genus: Macadamia. 100 g of macadamia provides 8.6 g or 23% of daily-recommended levels of dietary fiber. Additionally, they are a very good source of phytosterols such as ss-ß. Sitosterol, however the nuts carry no. cholesterol
Print. Print. Botanical name: Macadamia integrifolia When you think of macadamia nuts, Hawaii might come to mind, but this nut is actually native to the continent Down Under, which explains why the fruit is also known as the Australian or Queensland Nut. Macadamias are a tough nut to crack, as the saying goes. Containing at least 72 percent oil, they’re encased in a leathery, green husk that splits open as the nut matures. Harvest comes when they fall from the tree, which is when the husk is removed and the nuts are dried.
Macadamia Academia. Botanical name: Macadamia integrifolia. When you think of macadamia nuts, Hawaii might come to mind, but this nut is actually native to the continent Down Under, which explains why the fruit is also known as the Australian or Queensland Nut. Macadamias are a tough nut to crack, as the saying goes. Containing at least 72 percent oil, they’re encased in a leathery, green husk that splits open as the nut matures. Harvest comes when they fall from the tree, which is when the husk is removed and the nuts are dried.
MACADAMIA NUT Overview Information. Macadamia nut is the seed of the macadamia tree. Macadamia nuts are native to Australia. They are grown commercially in Hawaii and, to a much smaller extent, in California and Florida. Roasted macadamia nuts are a popular snack. 
Macadamia is a genus of four species of trees indigenous to Australia and constituting part of the plant family Proteaceae. They are native to north eastern New South Wales and central and south eastern Queensland. The species previously named in this Macadamia genus may still be referred to overall by the descriptive, non-scientific name of macadamia; their disjunct distributions and current scientific names are: 1  New Caledonia endemic genus Virotia in 1975 having only the type species, then by 2008 all six endemic species.