Mean annual temperatures in Kentucky range from 53 degrees Fahrenheit (F) in the northeast to 59 F in the southwest, but there is significant seasonal variation in temperature. Summer days are typically sunny, warm and humid. Most areas of the State receive more than 60 percent of available sunshine during summer. Winters are rarely harsh. In January, average daily high temperatures increase from 38 F in the north to 44 F in the south. Cloudy skies are more frequent in winter, as most areas receive near 40 percent of available sunshine. Polar air masses occasionally affect Kentucky for short periods. Temperatures dip below 0 F an average of about five days in the north and two days in the south
1 Record Coldest year in Kentucky - 1917 / Avg temperature 52.55 degrees. 2  Kentucky average Summer temperature (June, July, August) 74.5 F degrees, 15th warmest U.S. summer state. Winters are rarely harsh. In January, average daily high temperatures increase from 38 F in the north to 44 F in the south. Cloudy skies are more frequent in winter, as most areas receive near 40 percent of available sunshine. Polar air masses occasionally affect Kentucky for short periods. Temperatures dip below 0 F an average of about five days in the north and two days in the south
Average temperatures in December, January and February range from about 26.9 to 32 degrees Fahrenheit (-2.8 to 0 degrees Celsius). February is the snowiest month, with an average snowfall of 9.4 inches (23.9 cm), followed by January, with an average snowfall of 8 inches (20.3 cm). The climate for every place on earth is the same year-round. You are confusing climate with weather. See the Related Question below. New … York City has a humid sub-tropical climate. The rest of New York State has a humid continental climate. The weather in New York City in the winter is cold, but usually not too cold.
Average Annual Temperatures in Kentucky. Average annual temperatures for cities, towns, parks and lakes throughout Kentucky are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The tables give the normals for maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Eastern, North-Central, South-Central and Western Kentucky.
The temperatures are based on data collected by weather stations throughout each state during the years 1971 to 2000 and made available by the NOAA National Climatic Data Center of the United States. The average temperatures during winter for every state in the US are listed below in degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. The states are also ranked from the hottest state in winter at number 1 to the coldest state at number 50. Below the map are the data it's based on. Plus there's a ranking of states in winter from hottest to coldest. The temperatures are state-wide averages calculated from temperatures recorded during the months of December, January and February.
December is the least-snowy winter month, with an average snowfall of 4.8 inches (12.2 cm). See the Related Link below for more information on New York City's and New York State's climate and weather. 2 people found this useful. The climate for every place on earth is the same year-round. You are confusing climate with weather. See the Related Question below. New … York City has a humid sub-tropical climate. The rest of New York State has a humid continental climate. The weather in New York City in the winter is cold, but usually not too cold.
Average winter temperatures range from a high of 67.4 degrees Fahrenheit (19.7 degrees Celsius) in Hawaii to a low of 2.6 °F (-16.3 °C) in Alaska. For the entire United States, excluding Hawaii and Alaska, the season averages just above freezing at 33.2 °F (0.7 °C). Below the map are the data it's based on. Plus there's a ranking of states in winter from hottest to coldest. The temperatures are state-wide averages calculated from temperatures recorded during the months of December, January and February.
During the fall, the weather in Kentucky brings about even more color and the air typically feels nice and cool. The first shades of yellow, red, and orange foliage can be spotted as early as mid to late September in some areas of the state, with a statewide peak somewhere around mid-October. The state experiences all four distinct seasons, with warm summers and moderately cold winters. The daytime temperature during the summer averages 87 degrees. Conversely, the winter lows average around 23 degrees. Despite these trends, the weather in KY can vary a lot from day to day so it always helps to check the forecast before your visit in order to pack appropriately. When it comes to great outdoors weather, Kentucky is most popular in spring and fall