8. My Surface Pro has a strange problem. When I try to access the app store, the talbet locks up itself. I press the power button on top of the device and there is a blank screen. Hitting again and Surface boots to the BIOS Setting screen directly. Now I can not login to Windows 8 and it is just bricked machine now. Secure boot is a UEFI protocol, and not a Windows 8 feature. How to turn off secure boot in Surface Pro windows 8. * First boot Surface to the UEFI Firmware Settings in Windows 8 “Advanced Options” UI. You can also hold down the Volume Up key on the tablet during the initial stages at boot.
The only way to reset this password is from within UEFI. Exit Setup. 1  Save and exit. 2  To save your changes and exit, select Exit Setup Yes. 3  Exit without saving. 4  To exit without saving your changes when you’re using a Surface Typing Cover, press Esc, and select Yes. 5  If you aren’t using a Cover, press the power button
1 Save and exit. 2  To save your changes and exit, select Exit Setup Yes. 3  Exit without saving. 4  To exit without saving your changes when you’re using a Surface Typing Cover, press Esc, and select Yes. 5  If you aren’t using a Cover, press the power button. Exit Setup. 1 
Hello again, To boot from a USB manually, do this: Attach a bootable USB storage device. Hold the volume down button. Press and release the power button. When the Surface logo appears, release the volume down button. I'm not sure where in UEFI you'd set this. To boot from a USB device, first attach the a bootable USB device to Surface Pro. Swipe in from the right edge of the screen, and then In Charms tap Settings. Tap Change PC Settings. Tap General on the left hand side.
You can access BIOS settings and turn off secure boot on Surface Pro, so that you are able to load other Operating System like Windows XP, Windows 7 or linux Ubuntu. Secure boot is a UEFI protocol, and not a Windows 8 feature. How to turn off secure boot in Surface Pro windows 8. * First boot Surface to the UEFI Firmware Settings in Windows 8 “Advanced Options” UI. You can also hold down the Volume Up key on the tablet during the initial stages at boot.
You could try this from Windows: You can use Windows Advanced startup to restart Surface Pro to the UEFI firmware settings menu or to start up Surface Pro from a bootable USB Device. To boot from a USB device, first attach the a bootable USB device to Surface Pro. Swipe in from the right edge of the screen, and then In Charms tap Settings. Tap Change PC Settings. Tap General on the left hand side. Scroll down to Advanced Startup on the right side and tap Restart now
A: To access the BIOS of the Surface Pro, the following actions should be performed: 1  Make sure the Surface Pro device is turned off. 2  Hold the volume-up button. 3  Press and release the power button. 1 Make sure the Surface Pro device is turned off. 2  Hold the volume-up button. 3  Press and release the power button. 4  When the Surface logo appears, release
So how do you enter the BIOS (UEFI) of the Surface Pro? And once there-what can you do? If you want to try another OS on your Surface Pro you need to go here first to disable Secure Boot. 1  Science & Technology. 
If you want to get into the BIOS (actually UEFI) on a Microsoft Surface 3 Tablet follow these instructions. 1  Power off the Surface – a reboot is not sufficient. 2  Press and HOLD the Volume UP button (on the left side of the tablet). 3  Press and HOLD the Power button for FIVE seconds (on the top of the tablet). 4  Release the Power button after five 5  .... Ha SOLVED: How to Enter the BIOS (UEFI) on a Microsoft Surface 3 Tablet. Home » SOLVED: How to Enter the BIOS (UEFI) on a Microsoft Surface 3 Tablet. Jun 2014 Posted by Ian Matthews+ in Windows Client: Win 7 8 & 10 | 3 comments.