[ 2 syll. ol-ly, oll-y ] The baby boy name Olly is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is AA-Liy-or AO-Liy- †. Olly is used predominantly in the English language and its origin is Germanic. Olly is a variant of the name Oliver (English and German). Olly is an infrequently used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. In 2012, out of the group of boy names directly linked to Olly, Oliver was the most popular.
German Meaning: The name Ollie is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Ollie is: Elf army. Can also be a Relic, ancestral heritage. American Meaning: The name Ollie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ollie is: Elf army. Can also be a Relic, ancestral heritage. The name Ollie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ollie is: Olive (symbol of peace); peaceful. French Meaning: The name Ollie is a French
The meaning of Olly has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Olly are: 1  English meaning: Elf army. 2  Latin meaning: Olive. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning). The different meanings of the name Olly are: The meaning of the name “Olly” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available.
Latin Meaning: The name Ollie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ollie is: Olive (symbol of peace); peaceful. French Meaning: The name Ollie is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Ollie is: Olive tree.
Molly is a very prominent first name for women (#317 out of 4276, Top 7%) and a slightly less prominent surname for both adults and children (#92217 out of 150436, Top 61%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Molly for girls. Molly /mol-ly/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MAH-lee. It is of Irish and Latin origin, and the meaning of Molly is star of the sea. Pet form of Mary. In use since the late Middle Ages. In the past, moll had meant a prostitue or a gangster's girlfriend, making the use of this name uncommon. Now revived in popular usage, also possibly due to actress Molly Ringwald
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Olly and its name origin or of any other name in our database. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning). The different meanings of the name Olly are: The meaning of the name “Olly” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available.
The name Ollie is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Ollie is: Elf army. Can also be a Relic, ancestral heritage. American Meaning: The name Ollie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ollie is: Elf army. The name Ollie is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ollie is: Olive (symbol of peace); peaceful. French Meaning: The name Ollie is a French
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Olly. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Olly, spread the love and share this with your friends. (If you know more meanings of the name and you would like to contribute click here to submit another name meaning). The different meanings of the name Olly are: The meaning of the name “Olly” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available.