Bacillus thuringiensis bacteria produce different insecticidal proteins known as Cry and Cyt toxins. Among them the Cyt toxins represent a special and interesting group of proteins. Cyt toxins are able to affect insect midgut cells but also are able to increase the insecticidal damage of certain Cry toxins.
Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt). Soil bacterium used for biological pest control-produces a crystalline protein toxic to certain types of insects. Bt toxin is produced by Bacillus thuringiensis in an inactive form (protoxin), which is transformed to its active form (delta-endotoxin) in the guts of certain insects. The active toxin binds to receptors in the gut, killing the insect.
Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is a live microorganism that kills certain insects and is used to kill unwanted insects in forests, agriculture, and urban areas. In a purified form, some of the proteins produced by Bt are acutely toxic to mammals.
BACILLUS THURINGIENSIS (B.T.). Bacillus thuringiensis (B.t.) is a live microorganism that kills certain insects and is used to kill unwanted insects in forests, agriculture, and urban areas. In a purified form, some of the proteins produced by B.t. are acutely toxic to mammals.
B. thuringiensis strains produce two types of toxin. The main types are the Cry (crystal) toxins, encoded by different cry genes, and this is how different types of Bt are classified. The second types are the Cyt (cytolytic) toxins, which can augment the Cry toxins, enhancing the effectiveness of insect control.
Introduction. Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) bacteria produce different insecticidal toxins that have been used as an environmentally friendly alternative method to control insect pests [4] . Bt produce crystal inclusions composed of Cry or Cyt toxins during sporulation phase of growth [4] .
Bacillus thuringiensis is the most widely used biopesticide worldwide due to its production of proteinaceous crystal toxins. B. thuringiensis is part of the Bacillus cereus group, and the B. thuringiensis may be very closely related to B. cereus strains.