The Solar System is made up of all the planets that orbit our Sun. In addition to planets, the Solar System also consists of moons, comets, asteroids, minor planets, and dust and gas. Everything in the Solar System orbits or revolves around the Sun. The Sun contains around 98% of all the material in the Solar System. 
Our solar system comprises of nine planets which are made up of different material and gases. MERCURY. Mercury is made up of dense iron core and silicate mantle and crust. It has lost its atmosphere because mercury is very close to the sun. VENUS. Venus is made up of nickel and iron in its interiors but it has not been proved yet and the gas present on the Venus is carbon dioxide. EARTH. Earth is composed of iron. And nearly 30% of it is found in its core. Earth also has 30% of oxygen and 14% of magnesium
There is not one answer to this question, each of the planets has a different make up, for example, the Earth is made up of about 30% iron, 30% oxygen with many other elements including 14% magnesium. Mercury is also iron in the middle and a large amount of silicate on the surface. Jupiter is mostly made up of gas, 10% Helium and 90% Hydrogen. Saturn is very similar in its makeup. Uranus is mostly ice made up of methane, ammonia and water. Neptune is rock with about 15% the same ice as Uranus. No one knows exactly what Pluto is made up of.
Earth and the other three inner planets of our solar system (Mercury, Venus and Mars) are made of rock, containing common minerals like feldspars and metals like magnesium and aluminum. So is Pluto. The other planets are not solid. Jupiter, for instance, is made up mostly of trapped helium, hydrogen, and water. In our solar system, the four gas giants are Jupiter, Saturn, Neptune, and Uranus. Planets with their relative sizes to scale. The tiny bluish dot at the lower left is Earth. 
Saturn is not solid like Earth, but is instead a giant gas planet. It is made up of 94% hydrogen, 6% helium and small amounts of methane and ammonia. Hydrogen and helium are what most stars are made of. It is thought that there might be a molten, rocky core about the size of Earth deep within Saturn.
ROCKY PLANETS (Mercury-Venus-Earth-Mars-Pluto). The rocky planets are mostly made up of rock and metal. These planets are very heavy and move slowly. They also do not have rings and very few moons. GAS PLANETS (Jupiter-Saturn-Uranus-Neptune). The gas planets are mostly made up of gases (hydrogen and helium). These planets are light for their sizes (just like a big air balloon) and move quickly. They have rings and lots of moons
A terrestrial planet, telluric planet or rocky planet is a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals. Within the Solar System, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets closest to the Sun, i.e. Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. 
The four planets closest to the Sun are largely made up of rock, like the Earth, and are called the terrestrial (Earth-like) planets. The next four planets are much larger and made mainly from hydrogen and helium. They are often called gas giants. Pluto is different still, a deep-frozen world of rock and ice. PLANETS. A planet is a world that orbits a star. There are nine planets circling around the Sun—Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto. They take different amounts of time to orbit the Sun, from only 88 days for Mercury to nearly 250 years for Pluto.