And this is a cause of blindness that does not just affect older age groups. Glaucoma can strike even newborn infants. Childhood glaucoma occurs in 1 out of every 8,000 children in the United States. Primary congenital glaucoma (PCG) accounts for approximately 50% to 70% of all cases of childhood glaucoma. 
The term early-onset glaucoma may be used when the disorder appears before the age of 40. In most people with glaucoma, the damage to the optic nerves is caused by increased pressure within the eyes (intraocular pressure). Intraocular pressure depends on a balance between fluid entering and leaving the eyes. The CYP1B1 protein may interact with myocilin. Individuals with mutations in both the MYOC and CYP1B1 genes may develop glaucoma at an earlier age and have more severe symptoms than do those with mutations in only one of the genes.
Glaucoma is a group of eye diseases which result in damage to the optic nerve and vision loss. A major risk factor is increased pressure in the eye. The disorders can be roughly divided into two main categories:  open-angle  and  closed-angle  (or  angle closure ) glaucoma. Open-angle glaucoma accounts for 90% of glaucoma cases in the United States. Closed-angle glaucoma accounts for less than 10% of glaucoma cases in the United States, but as many as half of glaucoma cases in other nations (particularly Asian countries).
The most common form of glaucoma, primary open-angle glaucoma, is associated with an increase in the fluid pressure inside the eye. This increase in pressure may cause progressive damage to the optic nerve and loss of nerve fibers. 1 Age —People over age 60 are at increased risk for the disease. 2  For African Americans, however, the increase in risk begins after age 40. 3  The risk of developing glaucoma increases slightly with each year of age.
A less common type of glaucoma, acute angle closure glaucoma, usually occurs abruptly due to a rapid increase of pressure in the eye. Its symptoms may include severe eye pain, nausea, redness in the eye, seeing colored rings around lights, and blurred vision. 1 Age —People over age 60 are at increased risk for the disease. 2  For African Americans, however, the increase in risk begins after age 40. 3  The risk of developing glaucoma increases slightly with each year of age.
Even with treatment, about 15 percent of people with glaucoma become blind in at least one eye within 20 years. Promptly go to an emergency room or an eye doctor's (ophthalmologist's) office if you experience some of the symptoms of acute angle-closure glaucoma, such as severe headache, eye pain and blurred vision. Seek immediate medical care
1 The most common form, open-angle glaucoma, accounts for 19% of all blindness among African Americans compared to 6% in Caucasians. 2  Other high-risk groups include: people over 60, family members of those already diagnosed, diabetics, and people who are severely nearsighted. 3. Everyone is at risk for glaucoma. Everyone is at risk for glaucoma from babies to senior citizens. Older people are at a higher risk for glaucoma but babies can be born with glaucoma (approximately 1 out of every 10,000 babies born in the United States).
Its frequency is higher in the Middle East. Juvenile open-angle glaucoma affects about 1 in 50,000 people. Primary open-angle glaucoma is much more common after the age of 40, affecting about 1 percent of the population worldwide. The CYP1B1 protein may interact with myocilin. Individuals with mutations in both the MYOC and CYP1B1 genes may develop glaucoma at an earlier age and have more severe symptoms than do those with mutations in only one of the genes.
Glaucoma damage may be caused by raised eye pressure or a weakness in your optic nerve. Or you may have an eye pressure within normal limits but the damage occurs because there is a weakness in your optic nerve. In most cases, high pressure and weakness in the optic nerve are both involved to a varying extent. 
Glaucoma is usually a slow disease. Untreated glaucoma takes on an average of 15 years to progress from early damage to blindness with an IOP of 21 to 25 mmHg, 7 years with 25 to 30 mmHg, and 3 years with a pressure more than 30 mmHg. Thus, most eye doctors will treat a pressure over 30 with out signs of damage. We tend to treat a little earlier.