We explore only a few examples of culturally important pollinators or pollinated plants here. To learn more about culturally important plants and pollinators: 1  Celebrating Wildflowers Ethnobotany web pages. 2  Culturally Significant Plants (PDF) - a Natural Resources Conservation Service Plant Material Program presentation.
The U.S. grows over 100 crop plants that are pollinated by insects and animals. Primary examples include almonds, apples, pears, citrus fruits, cherries, pumpkins, cucumbers, blackberries, cranberries, raspberries, strawberries, blueberries, melons, tomatoes, soybeans and sunflowers.
The Importance of Pollinators. One of every three bites of food we eat is dependent on pollinators, such as bees, butterflies and other critters, that play an enormous role in plant reproduction. Pollinators provide approximately $20 billion worth of pollination for American crops each year.
Native pollinators are those species that are native to a specific region. To the Native Pollinators in Agriculture Project, that region is North America. The blue orchard bee and numerous bumble bees are examples of native pollinators. Native, or “wild”, bees are distinct from managed bees, which were introduced to North America and are kept today by beekeepers in the United States for their honey, beeswax, and pollination services.
Pollinators include bees, insects, birds, and other animals that move pollen from one flower to another, thereby fertilizing plants and allowing them to reproduce.
©Janet Allen. A sweat bee pollinating a lead plant. And, even more important, native bees are essential pollinators in the world beyond our yards and farms, since about 75% of non-agricultural plants rely on animal pollinators—not wind—to produce seeds for the next generation of plants.
It has often been said that bees are responsible for one out of every three bites of food we eat. Most crops grown for their fruits (including vegetables such as squash, cucumber, tomato and eggplant), nuts, seeds, fiber (such as cotton), and hay (alfalfa grown to feed livestock), require pollination by insects.