Bioengineering is the branch of engineering in which the engineering principles are applied to define and solve problems in biology and medicine. It is basic research oriented activity carried out using the tools and principles of the physical sciences to develop a better understanding of biological systems. Bioengineering is the application of engineering principles to living structures, such as creating artificial organs, chemicals, drugs and tissues.
The difference between bioengineering and biomedical engineering is that bioengineering is a global term which encompasses the biomedical engineering and it is applied to all life sciences and medicine while biomedical engineering more focuses on medical and healthcare. It is basic research oriented activity carried out using the tools and principles of the physical sciences to develop a better understanding of biological systems. Bioengineering is the application of engineering principles to living structures, such as creating artificial organs, chemicals, drugs and tissues.
The difference between Biomedical Engineering and Bioengineering is more subtle, and can have varying interpretations. Generally, Biomedical Engineering is the more widely encompassing field, including the development of engineering solutions to both biological (Bio-) and clinical (-medical) questions. Bioengineering is generally recognized as a subset of Biomedical Engineering, and concerns itself with more of the scientific-primarily the biological questions, and less the translational ones.
Biomedical Engineering. A biomedical engineer is typically prepared at the baccalaureate level, according to the BLS. Some biomedical engineers obtain a degree in a different area of the engineering field and may go on for a graduate degree in biomedical engineering or get on-the-job training. Biomedical scientists are researchers. They may have a Ph.D., a medical degree or both, and they will probably spend at between eight and 12 years or more studying at the undergraduate and graduate level.
There is no difference. In the past, some programs used the term Biomedical Engineering to emphasize applications in medicine and health care, whereas other programs used the term Bioengineering to emphasize non-medical applications, such as artificial intelligence or agricultural engineering. 
There is a clear and distinct difference between the Biomedical Sciences and Biomedical/Bioengineering. Bioengineering is generally recognized as a subset of Biomedical Engineering, and concerns itself with more of the scientific-primarily the biological questions, and less the translational ones.
The Biomedical Sciences are concerned with the facts, theories and models describing biological and/or clinical phenomena, including subfields such as physiology, virology, biochemistry, molecular biology, or proteomics. Bioengineering is generally recognized as a subset of Biomedical Engineering, and concerns itself with more of the scientific-primarily the biological questions, and less the translational ones.
Biomedical/Bioengineering applies traditional engineering techniques in subspecialties such as mechanical, materials, or electrical to solve biological or clinical problems. So the difference is as clear as, say between chemistry and chemical engineering, where one is theory and the other is practice. Bioengineering is generally recognized as a subset of Biomedical Engineering, and concerns itself with more of the scientific-primarily the biological questions, and less the translational ones.
The short answer is that Biomedical engineers take and use more math! There is, however, more to it than that. The two fields are very similar in that they are both transdisciplinary and apply scientific principles to healthcare. The chart below will help explain some of the differences: Engineers are generally more about the “ Development ” in “Research and Development,” though there is also an element of research, if you'd like to pursue that. Career Paths include. Research at the federal level, in institutions of higher education, and in the private sector.