Report Abuse. EMS takes a few days for them to update your tracking information. Most times you will see that the package have departed and it will take 2 or 3 days to update again. When it is updated you will see it some where in the US (usually with customs). It takes between 5-7 business days to get packages from CHN to US. i ordered items on thursday and was sent a ems tracking number. it is now sunday evening and the tracking number still hasn't activated. in your experience how long does it take to show up online?
A good first step is to track the status of your package using your FedEx tracking number. The tracking number enables us to provide you with your package's most up-to-date tracking information. If the tracking results do not answer your question, your next step can be to contact FedEx for further assistance. Shipments in the FedEx system receive updates at various points between pickup and delivery. It is not unusual for a shipment to go more than 24 hours without an update while in transit. For additional tracking information, contact us at 1.866.393.4585. I tracked my shipment, and there are no scans.
FedEx Custom Critical ® shipments can be tracked online in two ways; track by PRO number and Detailed Track. Tracking by PRO number can be done on any fedex.com home page with the tracking box. This will allow you to see the basic information about a shipment and where it is while in progress. Some shipments, however, cannot be tracked this way and require a login to the Shipping Toolkit. 
The tracking number does not enter the UPS tracking system until it is scanned by the UPS driver at pickup. Until this time, it will show as being invalid. Once the bar code is scanned, it should show in the tracking system within an hour or so. Yup. I just applied for a job in the warehouse 3 days ago. Our UPS here don't take too long at all, but I use a shipper that does everything online. Going via my shipper here it takes anywhere from 3 - 12 hours and it's in the system. IMO,If they quoted the shipping then they should eat the higher cost (if there is any).
‎07-08-2014 04:42 PM. USPS tracking does not update on a 'real time' basis. Generally speaking, you will see updates the next day that reflects the prior day events. 
The handheld scanner things the UPS drivers use upload when they put it back in dock in the truck, so you’re looking at +/- 2 minutes until the UPS back-end knows your package was delivered, assuming it’s not being delivered to something like an office building where the UPS guy might be in there for 20 minutes. I am tracking my package via the internet, and I would like to know exactly when it arrives. How fast does the tracking update after they drop it off.
‎12-18-2013 07:27 PM. Update can take up to 2 days for online tracking by U.S.P.S. If you call USPS, tracking is updated quicker since it is on a more primary system. The third way to check tracking is the actual real time system and that is located at Post Offices where you can ask the Manager. ‎12-18-2013 07:23 PM. Sold first item on Ebay. Mailed it priority on Dec. 9th. Received positive feedback on the 16th. USPS still shows item as in transit. Paypal is holding funds and from what I read they should be released a few days after package shows delivered via usps tracking.