Unlike sexual reproduction, which requires genetic material from two parent organisms in order to create an offspring, asexual reproduction occurs when a single organism reproduces without the genetic input of another. Because of this, a single individual organism is able to produce a nearly exact copy of itself. Fragmentation and Blackworms. Many species of annelids (worms) reproduce via an asexual process called fragmentation. Included in this category of worms are California blackworms, or mudworms. These worms are hermaphroditic -- they have both male and female reproductive parts -- and can reproduce sexually.
Asexual Reproduction in Other Organisms. Animals are not the only organisms that reproduce asexually. Yeasts, plants and bacteria are capable of asexual reproduction as well. Bacterial asexual reproduction most commonly occurs by a kind of cell division called binary fission. In asexual reproduction, one individual produces offspring that are genetically identical to itself. These offspring are produced by mitosis. There are many invertebrates, including sea stars and sea anemones for example, that produce by asexual reproduction. Common forms of asexual reproduction include:
Everyone will be exactly the same as their parent. Organisms that reproduce asexually, cells for example, create a genetic copy of themselves. Where as organisms that reproduc … e sexually, humans for example, get their genes from both parents and end up being a unique combination of their parents.
Asexual reproduction is the primary form of reproduction for single-celled organisms such as the archaebacteria, eubacteria, and protists. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.
Reproduction (or procreation) is the biological process by which new individual organisms – offspring – are produced from their parents. Reproduction is a fundamental feature of all known life; each individual organism exists as the result of reproduction. There are two forms of reproduction: asexual and sexual. In asexual reproduction, an organism can reproduce without the involvement of another organism. Asexual reproduction is not limited to single-celled organisms. The cloning of an organism is a form of asexual reproduction. By asexual reproduction an organism creates a genetically similar or identical copy of itself. The evolution of sexual reproduction is a major puzzle for biologists.
Organisms, both prokaryotes (the archaea and the bacteria), and eukaryotes (such as protists and unicellular fungi), reproduce asexually through binary fission; most of these are also capable of sexual reproduction. Another type of fission is multiple fission that is advantageous to the plant life cycle. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.
Asexual reproduction in liverworts: a caducous phylloid germinating. Asexual reproduction is a mode of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism, and inherit the genes of that parent only; it does not involve the fusion of gametes and almost never changes the number of chromosomes. Fragmentation is a form of asexual reproduction where a new organism grows from a fragment of the parent. Each fragment develops into a mature, fully grown individual. Fragmentation is seen in many organisms such as animals (some annelid worms [Which ones?] , turbellarians and sea stars), fungi, and plants.
Parthenogenesis and Copperheads. Though most of the organisms that use asexual reproduction are invertebrates, several species of vertebrate animals do make use of it. Some, like copperhead snakes, can reproduce asexually as an alternative to their typical sexual reproduction. Fragmentation and Blackworms. Many species of annelids (worms) reproduce via an asexual process called fragmentation. Included in this category of worms are California blackworms, or mudworms. These worms are hermaphroditic -- they have both male and female reproductive parts -- and can reproduce sexually.