What causes plant disease? Most people would answer this question by saying that plant pathogens, such as fungi or bacteria, cause plant disease. But this is only part of the answer. Plant pathologists talk about a combination of three crucial factors that must be present to hav
Most plant diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Although the term disease is usually used only for the destruction of live plants, the action of dry rot and the rotting of harvested crops in storage or transport is similar to the rots of growing plants; both are caused by bacteria and fungi.
Fungi Fungi are the most prevalent plant pathogen of indoor ornamental plants. They cause a number of leaf spot, stem, and root rot diseases. Most foliage diseases caused by fungi develop circular, dead spots or lesions on leaves, stems and flowers. The gray-to-brown center is dry and papery, with a darker edge.
Infectious plant diseases are caused by pathogens, living microorganisms that infect a plant and deprive it of nutrients. Bacteria, fungi, nematodes, mycoplasmas, viruses and viroids are the living agents that cause plant diseases.
The vast majority of plant pathogens are fungi Link to Fungal Biology, however, plant diseases are also caused by insects, bacteria, nematodes, viruses and phytoplasmas. Disease-like symptoms can also be caused by abiotic factors, such as temperature, light, chemical agents and water or nutrient deficiencies.
Plant pathology is the study of plant diseases. The most common causes of plant diseases are bacteria, fungi, algae, viruses, and roundworms. Plant diseases can drastically affect a country's economy. They may be responsible for the loss of up to ten percent of human crops each year. Plant pathology is also important in environmental studies.
Most plant diseases – around 85 percent – are caused by fungal or fungal-like organisms. However, other serious diseases of food and feed crops are caused by viral and bacterial organisms. Certain nematodes also cause plant disease.