1 Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 2  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 3  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 4  Your liver also produces oxalate.
1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels.
Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate.
Calcium supplements appear to increase the risk of kidney stones (American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, Jul. 2011). Some people make more kidney-stone forming oxalate after large doses (2,000 mg) of vitamin C (Journal of Nutrition, Jul. 2005). The amount you would get from a multi-vitamin, however, is not likely to cause problems.
1 Eat fewer oxalate-rich foods. 2  If you tend to form calcium oxalate stones, your doctor may recommend restricting foods rich in oxalates. 3  These include rhubarb, beets, okra, spinach, Swiss chard, sweet potatoes, nuts, tea, chocolate and soy products. 4  Choose a diet low in salt and animal protein.
Get the calcium you need: Getting too little calcium in your diet can cause oxalate levels to rise and cause kidney stones. To prevent this, make sure to take in an amount of calcium appropriate to your age. Ideally, obtain calcium from foods, since some studies have linked taking calcium supplements to
Women taking calcium supplements may be raising their risk. THE QUESTION Kidney stones, which have calcium as a major component, have become increasingly common among American women, by some reports afflicting nearly 40 percent more women in recent decades than in the 1970s.