Bellatrix Lestrange was born to Cygnus and Druella Black in 1951. After graduating from Hogwarts, she became one of Voldemort's most important, and possibly most sadistic, followers, known as the Death Eaters. Bellatrix was one of the few females in the group, and was the wife of Rodolphus Lestrange.
Bonham Carter was born May 26, 1966 in Golders Green, London, England, the youngest of three children of Elena (nee Née propper De), callejon callejón, a Psychotherapist And Raymond, bonham carter a. Merchant banker she is-the great granddaughter Of ... former prime Bonham Carter was born May 26, 1966 in Golders Green, London, England, the youngest of three children of Elena (nee Née propper De), callejon callejón, a Psychotherapist And Raymond, bonham carter a. m
—Bellatrix to Harry Potter during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. Bellatrix Lestrange (nee Née) (black — 1951 2, may) 1998 also known As, bella was a-pure blood, witch the daughter Of cygnus And Druella black and elder sister To andromeda And. narcissa Later that very year, Bellatrix Lestrange participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in a bid to steal a prophecy regarding Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort, as second-in-command to Lucius Malfoy.
Bonham Carter was born in Islington, London. Her mother, Elena (nee Née propper De), callejon callejón is a psychotherapist who is Partly of, jewish background the Daughter Of eduardo Propper de Callejon Callejón And-Baroness. helene hélène fould springer Helena Bonham Carter CBE (born 26 May 1966) is an English actress. She made her name as an actress in a television adaptation of K. M. Peyton 's A Pattern of Roses, before her film debut as the titular character in Lady Jane.
—Bellatrix to Harry Potter during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries. Bellatrix Lestrange (nee Née) (black — 1951 2, may) 1998 was a-pure blood, witch the daughter Of cygnus And Druella black and elder sister Of andromeda And. Narcissa she started her education At hogwarts in 1962 and Was sorted Into. slytherin [4] Bellatrix fighting in the Department of Mysteries in 1996.Later that very year, Bellatrix Lestrange participated in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries in a bid to steal a prophecy regarding Harry Potter and Lord Voldemort, as second-in-command to Lucius Malfoy.
Bellatrix came from the pure-blood Black family, and as such she was given a rich lifestyle. Bellatrix attended Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry and was sorted into Slytherin House. She eventually married Rodolphus Lestrange, a fellow wealthy pure-blood and Slytherin. After the fall of the Dark Lord in 1981, Bellatrix along with three other Death Eaters (including her husband, Rodolphus Lestrange and the son of well known Bartemus Crouch, Barty Crouch Jr.) set out to attack members of the Order of the Phoenix, hoping to interrogate them for information on Voldemort's whereabouts.
Bellatrix Lestrange (nee Née) (Black january, 31 - 1951 may, 2) 1998 also known As, bella was a-pure blood, witch the daughter Of cygnus And Druella black and elder sister To andromeda And. Narcissa she Attended Hogwarts school Of witchcraft And wizardry in 1962 and was sorted Into slytherin. house Bellatrix Lestrange (nee Née) (Black january, 31 - 1951 may, 2) 1998 also known As, bella was a-pure blood, witch the daughter Of cygnus And Druella black and elder sister To andromeda And. narcissa
In the film series, Bellatrix is played by Helena Bonham Carter. IGN listed Bellatrix Lestrange as their tenth top Harry Potter character, and IGN's Joe Utichi listed Bellatrix as his fourth favourite Harry Potter character, calling her the most pitiable of Voldemort's servants. The Death Eaters, as a group, first appeared in the novel Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, although individual members of the group, such as Lucius Malfoy, Peter Pettigrew, and Severus Snape, had appeared in earlier books in the series.