Trevenant EX is a basic, EX, grass type Pokemon card with an hp of 180. It has a x2 weakness to fire type Pokemon, no resistance type, and a three colorless energy card retreat cost. Trevenant does not have an Ability but it does have two moves. So thanks for reading today's Pokemon card review of Trevenant EX from the Primal Clash set, stay tuned for tomorrow's card review of Vulpix, which is from this same set. Make sure to check below for the Free Pokemon TCG Online Codes! Free Pokemon TCG Online Code Cards:
Trevenant is a really nice mix of Water-type switch-in and spinblocker. Checks many threatening and annoying Water-types (Keldeo, Tentacruel, Politoed, Rotom-W, Jellicent, Starmie) and makes for a good spinblocker, as it fares very well against Forretress, Starmie, and Donphan. With such a typing you will think one thing, and that is spin blocker. By having a ghost typing the notably job of Trevenant would probably be spin blocking. With its nice base 90 Hp, and 70 Def and 80 SpDef, it will do a pretty good job at taking hits.
Trevenant is the first EX card from the Primal Clash set that I've reviewed on my blog. Please respond by including the correct answer and a link to your YouTube channel. Only one entry per person please. So thanks for reading today's Pokemon card review of Trevenant EX from the Primal Clash set, stay tuned for tomorrow's card review of Vulpix, which is from this same set. Make sure to check below for the Free Pokemon TCG Online Codes! Free Pokemon TCG Online Code Cards:
Analysis of Pokemon. When you first look at Trevenant, the first thing that you will notice is that it possesses a rare grass / ghost typing. With such a typing you will think one thing, and that is spin blocker. By having a ghost typing the notably job of Trevenant would probably be spin blocking. With its nice base 90 Hp, and 70 Def and 80 SpDef, it will do a pretty good job at taking hits.
Trevenant is a rather mediocre Pokemon in the UnderUsed tier. This is due to many reasons. Firstly, its average bulk is very underwhelming, especially considering its main role as a wall. Trevenant also faces a lot of competition, especially from the likes of Tangrowth, Chesnaught, and Gourgeist-XL. Use Trevenant to absorb status from moves such as Scald and Toxic for the team and then Rest it off. Avoid Pokemon that commonly use Knock Off, as Trevenant's Lum Berry is crucial to its effectiveness.
Trevenant is a slender brown tree that stands on six roots bent like spider legs. Its inner body is made up of black shadow, which is mostly covered by tree bark. 
Please try again later. Hey guys, today we take a look at Trevenant EX from the Primal Clash set release and use him in an incredibly annoying deck build that is bound to make many of your opponents rage quit! 
Today's Pokemon Card Review is of Trevenant from the Pokemon XY Card Set. Trevenant is a stage 1, psychic type Pokemon card, with an hp of 110. It has a x2 weakness to darkness type Pokemon, a -20 resistance to fighting type Pokemon, and a three colorless energy retreat cost. If you read yesterday's review, you'll know that I thought Phantump was an absolute miserable basic Pokemon card that should not be used in any deck. Because this Phantump card is so bad, this Trevenant card really has to be good in order for me to want to use it in a deck. And I think that this card really is that good and I would definitely recommend using this card in any spread damage type deck you're building. Of course you'll want to evolve to Trevenant on the bench and put it into the active Pokemon spot as soon as you get three energy cards on i
Specifically as a wall he's not great... 85/76/82 defenses are terrible for a wall. That said, his typing makes him a really good dedicated spinblocker if you have a team that needs it, and his good recovery options make up a bit for his bad defenses. ---. 3DS FC: 3093-7105-3988