The spleen has a number of functions: 1  The red pulp removes damaged and worn-out red blood cells from the blood, which are broken down by macrophages for recycling. 2  It also produces and stores platelets that help your blood clot when you cut yourself. The spleen is a soft, spongy organ that is comprised of two types of tissue: 1  Red pulp, comprising blood-filled cavities and special tissues that contain different types of red and white blood cells. 2  White pulp, formed of lymphatic tissue that mostly consists of
The spleen (from Greek σπλήν — splḗn) is an organ found in virtually all vertebrates. Similar in structure to a large lymph node, it acts primarily as a blood filter. The spleen plays important roles in regard to red blood cells (also referred to as erythrocytes) and the immune system. It removes old red blood cells and holds a reserve of blood, which can be valuable in case of hemorrhagic shock, and also recycles iron. The spleen synthesizes antibodies in its white pulp and removes antibody-coated bacteria and antibody-coated blood cells by way of blood and lymph node circulation. A study published in 2009 using mice found that the spleen contains, in its reserve, half of the body's monocytes within the red pulp.
1 It also is part of the lymphatic system and produces lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that are a part of the immune system that helps to prevent and fight infection. 2  The spleen also acts as a reservoir for red blood cells and platelets, should the body need them. The spleen is an important organ in the body that has a variety of responsibilities. 1  It is a major filter of blood, helping remove old and damaged red blood cells, and bacteria.
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged. The spleen plays multiple supporting roles in the body. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis
It is also an important organ in the immune system, producing the white blood cells that fight infection and synthesize antibodies. Although the spleen is important for many functions in the body, the spleen is not vital to survival and it is possible to live without a spleen. Without the spleen, other organs in the body (particularly the liver) adapt and increase their ability to fight infection and remove redundant red blood cells. 
What is the Spleen and what does it do? The spleen is the soft, purplish-red organ tucked just under the rib cage on the left side of the abdomen. It is about the size of the heart and is made up of a spongy material that can hold up to three gallons of blood.
The spleen is found on the left side of your body, behind the stomach on a level with the 9th to 11th ribs. It is similar in structure to a lymph node, and is the largest lymphatic organ in the body. The spleen contains two main types of tissue-white pulp and red pulp. This leaflet gives a brief overview of the spleen and its functions. The spleen is an organ about the size of a clenched fist found on the left-hand side of your upper abdomen. Its main functions are to filter your blood, create new blood cells and store platelets. It is also a key part of your body's immune system