Some of the risks of an episiotomy include, extension to a third-or fourth-degree tear, subsequent pelvic floor dysfunction, anal sphincter dysfunction, painful sex, infection and fecal and urinary incontinence. In this blog, I compare the pros and cons of an episiotomy to that of a natural tear of the perineum. My goal is to offer you enough information to either make an informed decision with what you are most comfortable with or at least open the discussion about this matter with your care provider.
1 3rd degree – This involves the skin, back of the vagina, muscles of the perineum and extends partially or completely through the anal sphincter. 2  Stitches are needed to close these tears. 3  4th degree – This is the same as the third degree tear, but extends into the rectum. 4  Stitches are needed to close these tears, too. 
An episiotomy (/əˌpiːziːˈɒtəmiː/ or /ɛˌpəsaɪˈɒtəmiː/), also known as perineotomy, is a surgical incision of the perineum and the posterior vaginal wall generally done by a midwife or obstetrician during second stage of labor to quickly enlarge the opening for the baby to pass through. Episiotomy is done as prophylaxis against soft-tissue tearing which would involve the anal sphincter and rectum. Vaginal tears can occur during childbirth, most often at the vaginal opening as the baby's head passes through, especially if the baby descends quickly.
If you had an incision (episiotomy) or a tear in the area between your vagina and anus (perineum) during delivery, your doctor or nurse-midwife will repair it with stitches, using a local anesthetic. An ice pack will be placed against your perineum to ease pain and swelling. 
An episiotomy is an incision through the vaginal wall and the perineum (the area between the thighs, extending from the vaginal opening to the anus) to enlarge the vaginal opening and facilitate childbirth. This type of episiotomy usually heals well but may be more likely to tear and extend into the rectal area, called a third or fourth degree laceration. Mediolateral. This refers to an incision that is made at a 45-degree angle from the lower opening of the vagina to either side.
These severe tears are called third-or fourth-degree lacerations. A third-degree laceration is a tear in the vaginal tissue, perineal skin, and perineal muscles that extends into the anal sphincter (the muscle that surrounds your anus). A fourth-degree tear goes through the anal sphincter and the tissue underneath it. It's also possible to tear in other places. It's possible to tear even if you have an episiotomy. In fact, an episiotomy raises your risk of getting severe tears. The most superficial tears involve the skin of the perineum and the tissue around the opening of the vagina or the outermost layer of the vagina itself, but no muscles.