Best Answer: The selvage edges are the outside edges of the fabric on the bolt....usually white with writing on it. Make sure you do not cut it off if you are using a paper pattern. You need these straight edges when folding your fabric so you can cut with the grain of fabric. Report Abuse. The selvage is the edge of the printed fabric where the printing stops. There's usually an edge, usually white, along the edge that is the manufactured edge of the fabric. You need to cut this off for most sewing projects.
Definition of SELVAGE. 1. a: the edge on either side of a woven or flat-knitted fabric so finished as to prevent raveling; specifically: a narrow border often of different or heavier threads than the fabric and sometimes in a different weave b: an edge (as of fabric or paper) meant to be cut off and discarded. 2.
In handweaving the selvage is generally the same thickness as the rest of the cloth, and the pattern may or may not continue all the way to the edge, thus the selvage may or may not be patterned. A plain weave selvage is the other option, where the last few threads on either side are woven in plain weave. Note the selvage: the self-finished edge (foreground), regular weave pattern, maker's marks and the start of the main print. Part of a sheet of postage stamps from Australia showing selvage at the bottom.
A selvage is the tightly woven edge of a fabric. It prevents the side edges of the fabric from raveling or fraying. Don’t use the selvage in your project! The selvage, because it’s densely woven, is sturdier than the rest of the fabric, so it can be more difficult to sew through. 
Fabric Selvage. Selvage is the tightly woven edge that runs along each side of a piece of fabric's lengthwise grain, which is also called the fabric's warp. Selvage edges keep the fabric from fraying. In Great Britain, the same term is often spelled selvedge. Selvage edges occur when crosswise grain threads, called the weft threads, turn back and forth as they are woven along the weft threads, which stay in place during the weaving process. Tiny loops are formed where the weft threads make each turn, and it's the little loops that keep the fabric's edges intact.
2. selvage-the edge of a fabric that is woven so that it will not ravel or fray. selvedge. edge-the outside limit of an object or area or surface; a place farthest away from the center of something; the edge of the leaf is wavy; she sat on the edge of the bed; the water's edge. Translations. 
Selvages. The selvage (or selvedge) of knit fabric is an edge formed by changing the stitch pattern at the beginning and end of every row. This stabilizes the fabric and prepares it for seaming or creates a finished edge on pieces that will have no further finishing. 
So if you have a piece of fabric laying down flat, and your selvage is along the bottom…….. Then you can fold edge of the fabric on the left, down to the selvage edge, creating a diagonal fold. If you cut right along that diagonal fold, you are cutting on the bias……or a 45 degree angle to the selvage. 
The selvage edge on fabric is where the fabric is attached to the loom when the cloth is woven at the factory. It is always on the width of the material and some times fuzzy on each end. If the material is a print, some times the selvage edge will be white. elizabeth d · 8 years ago. Report Abuse. The selvage is the edge of the printed fabric where the printing stops. There's usually an edge, usually white, along the edge that is the manufactured edge of the fabric. You need to cut this off for most sewing projects.
The selvage of a piece of curtain fabric. Note the selvage: the self-finished edge (foreground), regular weave pattern, maker's marks and the start of the main print. Part of a sheet of postage stamps from Australia showing selvage at the bottom. A selvage (US English) or selvedge (British English) is a self-finished edge of fabric. The selvages keep the fabric from unraveling or fraying. The selvages are a result of how the fabric is created