Molecular cloning refers to the process of making multiple molecules. Cloning is commonly used to amplify DNA fragments containing whole genes, but it can also be used to amplify any DNA sequence such as promoters, non-coding sequences and randomly fragmented DNA. Cloning in biotechnology refers to processes used to create copies of DNA fragments (molecular cloning), cells (cell cloning), or organisms. The term also refers to the production of multiple copies of a product such as digital media or software
Molecular cloning generally uses DNA sequences from two different organisms: the species that is the source of the DNA to be cloned, and the species that will serve as the living host for replication of the recombinant DNA. Molecular cloning methods are central to many contemporary areas of modern biology and medicine. In a conventional molecular cloning experiment, the DNA to be cloned is obtained from an organism of interest, then treated with enzymes in the test tube to generate smaller DNA fragments.
© A Dictionary of Biology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. gene cloning (DNA cloning) The production of exact copies (clones) of a particular gene or DNA sequence using genetic engineering techniques. The DNA containing the target gene(s) is split into fragments using restriction enzymes. 
Controversies. Bacterial plasmids used in gene cloning naturally contain genes that encode some form of antibiotic resistance. As a result of the gene cloning process, the cloned genes that are put into plant cells to make a transgenic plant may also have an antibiotic resistance gene. Step 1: DNA extracted from an organism, with the gene of interest, is cut into gene-size pieces with restriction enzymes. These enzymes read the nucleotide sequence of the DNA and recognize specific sequences. The enzymes then cut the DNA sequence by breaking the bonds between nucleotides in a DNA strand.
When scientists clone a gene, they isolate and make exact copies of just one of an organism's genes. Cloning a gene usually involves copying the DNA sequence of that gene into a smaller, more easily manipulated piece of DNA, such as a plasmid. Many people first heard of cloning when Dolly the Sheep showed up on the scene in 1997. Artificial cloning technologies have been around for much longer than Dolly, though. There are two ways to make an exact genetic copy of an organism in a lab: artificial embryo twinning and somatic cell nuclear transfer.
DNA cloning – also known as molecular cloning, gene cloning and recombinant DNA technology-refers to the process of creating multiple copies of an isolated DNA fragment or fragments by in vitro or in vivo methods. It is possible to clone entire gene fragments, random portions of DNA fragments or specific DNA sequences. In DNA cloning, it is possible to clone entire gene fragments, random portions of DNA fragments or specific DNA sequences. Scientists can
DNA cloning. To get multiple copies of a gene or other piece of DNA you must isolate, or ‘cut’, the DNA from its source and then ‘paste’ it into a DNA vector that can replicate (or copy) itself. DNA cloning is used to create a large number of copies of a gene or other piece of DNA. The cloned DNA can be used to: 1  Work out the function of the gene. 2  Investigate a gene’s characteristics (size, expression, tissue distribution).
Section 7.1 DNA Cloning with Plasmid Vectors. The essence of cell chemistry is to isolate a particular cellular component and then analyze its chemical structure and activity. In the case of DNA, this is feasible for relatively short molecules such as the genomes of small viruses. 
Backcross breeding. Gene Cloning. Gene cloning is the process in which a gene of interest is located and copied (cloned) out of DNA extracted from an organism. When DNA is extracted from an organism, all of its genes are extracted at one time. This DNA, which contains thousands of different genes. Step 1: DNA extracted from an organism, with the gene of interest, is cut into gene-size pieces with restriction enzymes. These enzymes read the nucleotide sequence of the DNA and recognize specific sequences. The enzymes then cut the DNA sequence by breaking the bonds between nucleotides in a DNA strand.