1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Bad Mark #3: Tax Liens. While tax liens themselves can stay on your credit report for as long as your state laws allow, if you pay the tax lien off, then the tax lien should be removed after 7 years. The tax lien should show up as “paid” during this time period. Bad Mark #6: Late Payments. If you’ve missed payments here and there, then you could actually be fine. Late payments aren’t generally reported to the credit reporting agencies unless they are 30 days past due. If that is the case, they will remain on your credit report for 7 years.
In general, negative credit entries will stay on your credit report for seven years. However, the exact amount of time varies based on factors such as whether the delayed payment or bad debt is disputable, and the source of the bad credit. However, as long as it's unpaid it can stay on your credit report indefinitely. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy, once completed, stays for 10 years. Keep in mind that the older a bad credit mark is, the less it counts against your credit score.
Most negative credit entries remain on your credit report for seven years. This includes late payments -- such paying a credit card bills more than 30 days after the due dates -- foreclosures, Chapter 13 bankruptcies and debt being sent to collections. There are, however, a few exceptions to the seven year practice. However, as long as it's unpaid it can stay on your credit report indefinitely. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy, once completed, stays for 10 years. Keep in mind that the older a bad credit mark is, the less it counts against your credit score.
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
The Fair Credit Reporting Act is the federal law that spells, among other things, out how long negative information can remain on your credit report. The credit reporting time limit is seven years for most negative information. Certain types of negative information will stay on your credit report for longer than that. 
How long a bankruptcy stays on your credit report depends on the type of bankruptcy you filed. Chapter 13 bankruptcies may be removed from your credit report after 7 years, whereas Chapter 7 and Chapter 11 bankruptcies can remain on your report for 10 years. Bad Mark #6: Late Payments. If you’ve missed payments here and there, then you could actually be fine. Late payments aren’t generally reported to the credit reporting agencies unless they are 30 days past due. If that is the case, they will remain on your credit report for 7 years.
These negative items are dragging your credit score down and you want to know how long these are going to be listed on your report. It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 1 Foreclosures: 7 years. 2  Collections: Generally, about 7 years, depending on the age of the debt being collected. 3  Public Records: Generally 7 years, although unpaid tax liens can remain indefinitely.