Although up-to the minute rates may be obtained by contacting a local RBC Royal Bank branch, rates can only be guaranteed at the time the purchase or sale is conducted. Service fees of $3.00 per currency may apply when non RBC Royal Bank clients exchange foreign currency for Canadian dollars. Exchange rates applied to cash transactions include shipping and handling charges, making the exchange rate for cash less favorable than the non-cash rate. Non-cash rates are applied to paper instruments such as cheques, drafts and travellers cheques.
All other Canadian dollar noon exchange rates are derived from the CAD/USD exchange rate and from indicative wholesale market quotes for a broad array of other currencies. The noon rates are updated by about 12:45 p.m. ET at month-end and 12:30 p.m. ET on other business days. The Bank of Canada does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of these exchange rates. Please read our full terms and conditions for all disclaimers. Exchange rate: A backgrounder explaining the role of the exchange rate in Canada's economy.
BMO Bank of Montreal Exchange Rates. All Canadian banks, including BMO Bank, can help you convert currency from one currency to another currency. However, the important thing you want to think about is the exchange rate that the banks offer. BMO Bank can provide a wide variety of currencies and you can also get cash currency from the bank branch. Especially if you bank with BMO Bank, it is convenient for you to use them to exchange currency. You must look at the website above to see their rates. However, you may want to compare BMO Bank’s exchange rate with other Canadian banks. You may even want to compare their rates with Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange (call 1-877-355-5239 to hear live exchange rates) to see the difference in exchange rates.
10-Year Currency Converter. Convert to and from Canadian dollars. Conversions are based on Bank of Canada nominal noon exchange rates, which are published each business day at about 12:30 ET. Read More. The Bank of Canada does not guarantee the accuracy or completeness of these exchange rates. Please read our full terms and conditions for all disclaimers. Exchange rate: A backgrounder explaining the role of the exchange rate in Canada's economy.
About exchange rates. Bank of Canada exchange rates are nominal quotations — not buying or selling rates — and are intended for statistical or analytical purposes. Rates available from financial institutions will differ. Rates are expressed in Canadian dollars, converted from U.S. dollars. The noon exchange rate for the Canadian dollar against the U.S. dollar is calculated to reflect the trades that take place between 11:59 a.m. and 12:01 p.m. Currency converter: 56 currencies. Currency converter: current day's rates. Convert to and from Canadian dollars using the current day's exchange rates. Currency converter: 10-year lookup. Convert to and from Canadian dollars using rates from 1996 to the present.
The Bank currently collects data for about 55 foreign currencies. This data is intended primarily for people with a research interest in foreign exchange markets, and represents a sampling of currencies from various regions. It is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of all world currencies. .alert a { font-weight:bold } All Bank of Canada exchange rates are indicative rates only, obtained from averages of transaction prices and price quotes from financial institutions. Please read our full terms and conditions for details. Convert to and from Canadian dollars, using the latest noon rat
The Bank currently collects data for about 55 foreign currencies. This data is intended primarily for people with a research interest in foreign exchange markets, and represents a sampling of currencies from various regions. 
Canada, Dollar. The Canadian Dollar is the currency of Canada. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Canada Dollar exchange rate is the USD to CAD rate. The currency code for Dollars is CAD, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Canadian Dollar rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take CAD rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website.
Find out how much your foreign currency is worth in U.S. dollars. Bank of America account holders can exchange foreign currency (no coins) for U.S. dollars at a full-service banking center. Add a currency to view the currency exchange rates for that country and find out how much your foreign currency is currently worth in U.S. dollars. 