Cyclohexane is a cycloalkane with the molecular formula C6H12. Cyclohexane is used as a nonpolar solvent for the chemical industry, and also as a raw material for the industrial production of adipic acid and caprolactam, both of which are intermediates used in the production of nylon. On an industrial scale, cyclohexane is produced by reacting benzene with hydrogen
Therefore, to reduce torsional strain, cyclohexane adopts a three-dimensional structure known as the chair conformation. There are also two other intermediate conformers; half chair, which is the most unstable conformer, and twist boat, which is more stable than the boat conformer. On an industrial scale, cyclohexane is produced by hydrogenation of benzene. Producers of cyclohexane accounts for approximately 11.4% of global demand for benzene. The reaction is highly exothermic, with δH(500 K) = 216.37 kJ/mol).
Cyclohexane is mainly used for the industrial production of adipic acid and caprolactam, which are precursors to nylon. On an industrial scale, cyclohexane is produced by hydrogenation of benzene. Producers of cyclohexane accounts for approximately 11.4% of global demand for benzene. The reaction is highly exothermic, with δH(500 K) = 216.37 kJ/mol).
The most stable conformation of cyclohexane is the chair form shown to the right. The C-C-C bonds are very close to 109.5o, so it is almost free of angle strain. It is also a fully staggered conformation and so is free of torsional strain. 
Therefore, to reduce torsional strain, cyclohexane adopts a three-dimensional structure known as the chair conformation. The new conformation puts the carbons at an angle of 109.5°. Half of the hydrogens are in the plane of the ring (equatorial) while the other half are perpendicular to the plane (axial). Cyclohexane is used as a nonpolar solvent for the chemical industry, and also as a raw material for the industrial production of adipic acid and caprolactam, both of which are intermediates used in the production of nylon.
1 The ground state conformation of cyclohexane is a fully staggered conformation which is shaped somewhat like a chair. 2  In this conformation there is no torsional strain at all, and as we shall see later, no strain of any kind. 3  Cyclohexane is unique in being the only cyclic hydrocarbon which is completely strain-free. 1 Another conformation which is important in any conformational analysis is the transition state, or maximum energy conformation on the rotational path.For cyclohexane this is the so-called half-chair conformation, in which now 5 carbons are co-planar, and only one is puckered out of the plane.
How It's Made. All cyclohexane is produced in benzene hydrogenation units. In the process, high-purity benzene feed and purified hydrogen (typically recovered from reformers and ethylene crackers) are brought to reaction temperatures and charged to the reactor. 
Yes, it is. Saturated compounds have no double bonds, and all alkanes (including cyclohexane) have no double bonds. the ending -ane means there are no double bonds. The endi … ng ene means there are one or more double bond (-ene, -diene, -triene, -tetraene). The molecular formula for cyclohexane is C6H12, therefore one molecule of cyclohexane contains 6 carbon atoms and 12 hydrogen atoms. The relative atomic mass (RAM) of carbon i … s 12.011 g/mol.
Though it has the similar number of carbons like benzene, cyclohexane is saturated. So there aren’t any double bonds between carbons like in benzene. It is a colorless liquid with a mild, sweet odor. This can be produced by the reaction between benzene and hydrogen. It is like cyclohexane, but there is one double bond between two carbon atoms in the ring, which makes it unsaturated. Cyclohexene is a colorless liquid, and it has a sharp smell. Cyclohexene is not very stable.