SENIOR SUPERVISOR-SENIOR MENTOR. The River Thames flows into an estuary near Southend in Essex. It is actually between the Counties of Essex and Kent where it meets the North Sea. An estuary is the mouth of a river or part of a river that is below sea level that has freshwater at low tides and salt water at high tides. They are usually enclosed an … d sometimes when water rushes in with the high tide it can create a tidal bore, or a wave, that will keep going until its energy is spent.
Below Teddington Lock (about 55 miles or 89 kilometres upstream of the Thames Estuary), the river is subject to tidal activity from the North Sea. Before the lock was installed, the river was tidal as far as Staines, about 16 miles (26 km) upstream. It is the longest river entirely in England and the second longest in the United Kingdom, after the River Severn. While it is best known for flowing through London, the river also flows alongside other towns and cities, including Oxford, Reading, Henley-on-Thames and Windsor.
There are 44 locks from the source of the Thames to Teddington Lock. From its source in Gloucestershire to Teddington Lock in south west London is non-tidal, a distance of 146 miles. The tidal range of the Thames Estuary is up to 23 feet. From Teddington Lock to the Estuary the Thames it tidal, a distance of 55 miles. The Thames Catchment is also known as the Thames River Basin and includes 4,994 square miles across most of south eastern and western England. 
The river gives its name to three informal areas: the Thames Valley, a region of England around the river between Oxford and west London; the Thames Gateway; and the greatly overlapping Thames Estuary around the tidal Thames to the east of London and including the waterway itself. It is the longest river entirely in England and the second longest in the United Kingdom, after the River Severn. While it is best known for flowing through London, the river also flows alongside other towns and cities, including Oxford, Reading, Henley-on-Thames and Windsor.
View of the upper Thames estuary from Tilbury to Mucking Creek looking north from Shorne, which is 4 kilometres south of the river. The Thames Estuary is the estuary in which the River Thames meets the waters of the North Sea. It is not easy to define the limits of the estuary. 
chart of the Rivers of the Estuary. antique chart of the River Thames and The Estuary. If you want to be in the know about your user statistic and those of the other users of this site, click on this link to the webanalysis, log in under the user name  I_m  and the password  informed  and you'll be surprised. 
Isle of Grain (Kent). Grain is probably the most remote location in Kent. It is at the eastern end of the Hoo peninsula and is on the south side of the Thames Estuary. Across the Thames from the Isle of Grain you can see Southend-on-Sea. (The tide is out). The River Medway enters the Thames at between the Isle of Grain and Sheerness
Back to top. The Thames Estuary is one of the United Kingdom’s major east-coast estuaries. It extends from the tidal limit of the River Thames at Teddington Lock in the west, through the heart of London, out to the North Sea. The character of the flooding changes from a fluvial dominance in the upstream reaches to the hazards posed by storm surges and waves in the downstream reaches.
Summary Edit. The River Thames is the second longest river in the United Kingdom and the longest river entirely in England, rising at Thames Head in Gloucestershire, and flowing into the North Sea at the Thames Estuary. 8,696 pages on this wiki. The Thames is a major river flowing through southern England. While best known because its lower reaches flow through central London, the river flows through several other towns and cities, including Oxford, Reading, and Windsor, Berkshire.
The river gives its name to the Thames Valley (Wikipedia page [1]), a region of England centred around the river between Oxford and West London, the Thames Gateway, the area centred around the tidal Thames, and the Thames Estuary to the east of London. 8,696 pages on this wiki. The Thames is a major river flowing through southern England. While best known because its lower reaches flow through central London, the river flows through several other towns and cities, including Oxford, Reading, and Windsor, Berkshire.