Management. Management & Entrepreneurship students get a comprehensive education in organizational management, human resources management, organizational behavior, business policy, entrepreneurship, and international business. The curriculum offers undergraduate students either a broad-based background preparing them for entrance into managerial positions or specialized training in entrepreneurship, international studies, or management.
Average Post-Graduation Salary. Costs. The total cost of a two-year degree for full-time students at Kelley School of Business is $103,872. Based on the total cost of a two-year degree and the average post-graduation salary, you will need to work at least 1.02 years to offset the cost of attending business school. Similar Business Schools with Lower Tuition. Students admitted to Kelley School of Business have an average GMAT score of 664 and an average undergraduate GPA of 3.31.
For Internships. Of the 1,274 Kelley seniors who utilized the UCSO in 2013-14, 913 were actively seeking as of three months post-graduation. Of those, 93% reported a full-time job or graduate school acceptance with 76% of graduating Kelley seniors reporting their status. Get detailed salary information by position and region by selecting the majors below. So competition is fierce. In 2014, internships were reported by 90 percent of students in the projected class of 2015 who were actively engaged in seeking an internship. In addition, 164 sophomores and 26 freshmen reported internship employment to the UCSO.
Indiana University’s Kelley School of Business online MBA program distinguishes itself from the pack by offering its students a wealth of well-managed options within a flexible, asynchronous program. 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -- Two programs at Indiana University's Kelley School of Business are No. 1 in U.S. News and World Report's rankings of the Best Online Education Programs, remaining at the top of more than 200 graduate business offerings nationwide. This was the first year that U.S. News has published two business rankings: one of online MBA programs and one of all other online master's programs in business, in areas such as finance, accounting or risk management. Kelley received a perfect score of 100 in both rankings.
The average salary of the 135 students who completed the M.S. program in 2013 and 2014 was $84,522. In addition to Kelley's rankings, the publication issued rankings for graduate online programs in engineering, education, nursing, criminal justice and computer information technology. This was the first year that U.S. News has published two business rankings: one of online MBA programs and one of all other online master's programs in business, in areas such as finance, accounting or risk management. Kelley received a perfect score of 100 in both rankings.
Indiana's Economic Outlook. The Indiana Business Research Center at the Kelley School of Business monitors Indiana’s economic outlook. Stay in touch with Kelley for economic information and for finding employees when you’re ready to start hiring again. By three months post-graduation, 93% of Kelley, Indianapolis seniors seeking opportunities found full-time employment or were going on to graduate school.
$30,000-$64,500. Many Kelley Indianapolis students plan to find full-time employment in Indianapolis or the Midwest after graduation. We can work with you to create an internship program or discuss other ways you can meet our students so you can evaluate their potential for full-time employment. By three months post-graduation, 93% of Kelley, Indianapolis seniors seeking opportunities found full-time employment or were going on to graduate school.