CpG is shorthand for —C—phosphate—G—, that is, cytosine and guanine separated by only one phosphate; phosphate links any two nucleosides together in DNA. The CpG notation is used to distinguish this linear sequence from the CG base-pairing of cytosine and guanine. The CpG notation can also be interpreted as the cytosine being 5 prime to the guanine base. Cytosines in CpG dinucleotides can be methylated to form 5-methylcytosine. In mammals, methylating the cytosine within a gene can change its expression, a mechanism that is part of a larger field of science studying gene regulation that is called epigenetics. CpG islands [edit]. How methylation of CpG sites followed by spontaneous deamination leads to a lack of CpG sites in methylated DNA. As a result residual CpG islands are created in areas where methylation is rare, and CpG sites stick (or where C to T mutation is highly detrimental).
Eukaryotic Methylation. CpG MTases, found in higher eukaryotes (e.g., Dnmt1), transfer a methyl group to the C 5 position of cytosine residues. Patterns of CpG methylation are heritable, tissue specific and correlate with gene expression. Consequently, CpG methylation has been postulated to play a role in differentiation and gene expression (4). Note: The effects of CpG methylation are mainly a concern when digesting eukaryotic genomic DNA. Restriction sites that are blocked by Dam or Dcm methylation can be un-methylated by cloning your DNA into a dam–, dcm– strain of E. coli, such as dam–/dcm– Competent E. coli (NEB #C2925). Restriction sites can also be blocked if an overlapping site is present.
CPg. CPg is a controversial underground punk rock group formed by guitarist Zoltan Zoltán benkő and Bassist Antal kis In, Szeged hungary in. 1979 Zoltan, zoltán Nagy Vocalist bela béla Haska And bassist zoltan zoltán. Varga joined in 1981 the group. continues to perform Today.see ». more on definitions net 
DEFINITION of 'Consumer Packaged Goods-CPG'. A type of good that is consumed every day by the average consumer. The goods that comprise this category are ones that need to be replaced frequently, compared to those that are usable for extended periods of time. BREAKING DOWN 'Consumer Packaged Goods-CPG'. The consumer packaged goods industry is one of the largest in North America, valued at approximately US$2 trillion. Although growth has slowed in this industry, companies that provide CPGs still benefit from large margins and strong balance sheets
Consumer packaged goods (CPG) are consumable goods such as food and beverages, footwear and apparel, tobacco, and cleaning products. In general, CPGs are things that get used up and have to be replaced frequently, in contrast to items that people usually keep for a long time, such as cars and furniture. In the B2B industry, lead scoring is a methodology used by sales and marketing departments to determine the worthiness of leads, ... See complete definition. market leadership. Market leadership is when an individual or company owns the largest market share or highest profitability margin in a given ...