Most of the coagulase-negative staphylococci associated with clinical disease are common inhabitants of the skin and mucous membranes. S. epidermidis is the most prevalent species, accounting for approximately 60-70% of all coagulase-negative Staphylococci on the skin. They are Gram-positive, catalase-positive and occur singly and in irregular grapelike clusters, a description from which is the origin of their name. Staphylococci are broadly divided into a group that produce coagulase (S. aureus) and those that do not (96).
Since most other species of staphylococci do not produce coagulase, it is useful to divide staphylococci into coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative species. Coagulase-negative staphylococci are not highly virulent but are an important cause of infections in certain high-risk groups. 
S. saprophyticus (a coagulase-negative staphylococcus strain) is a common cause for urinary tract infections. Symptoms of infection include pain in the bladder or urinary tract, strong-smelling, yellow urine, burning while urinating and fatigue. S. epidermidis (a coagulase-negative staphylococcus strain) attacks the skin and can cause serious infection. Unclean plastic utensils placed in the body cause bacterial infection. S. epidermidis is resistant to antibiotics; there is no treatment. If infection is suspected, the utensil is removed and replaced.
Staphylococcus epidermidis (staph epidermidis, S.epidermidis / epidermis) is a part of a normal skin flora, and it is often attached to the upper layer of the skin (epidermis) or mucosa, without causing any symptoms (staph epidermidis carrier state). Staph bacteria are noted as coagulase negative, if they do not coagulate during coagulase enzyme test. All staphylococci causing disease in human, (except Staphylococcus aureus), are coagulase negative and include: 1  Staphylococcusepidermidis (by far the most common CNS). 2  S. saprophyticus. 3  S. lungudensis. 4  S. haemolyticus
Save. Coagulase-negative staphylococcus covers a family of staphylococcus bacteria responsible for several types of infections. Most staphylococcus infections are a result of weakened immune system or caught in the hospital; however, staphylococcus is found in various forms. S. epidermidis (a coagulase-negative staphylococcus strain) attacks the skin and can cause serious infection. Unclean plastic utensils placed in the body cause bacterial infection. S. epidermidis is resistant to antibiotics; there is no treatment. If infection is suspected, the utensil is removed and replaced.
Staphylococcal infections are usually caused by Staphylococcus aureus. However, the incidence of infections due to Staphylococcus epidermidis and other coagulase-negative staphylococci has also been steadily rising. The image below depicts embolic lesions in patient with Staphylococcus aureus endocarditis. Background. Staphylococcal infections are usually caused by the organism Staphylococcus aureus. However, the incidence of infections due to Staphylococcus epidermidis and other coagulase-negative staphylococci has been steadily increasing in recent years.
Staphylococci are members of the family Micrococcaceae. They are Gram-positive, catalase-positive and occur singly and in irregular grapelike clusters, a description from which is the origin of their name. Staphylococci are broadly divided into a group that produce coagulase (S. aureus) and those that do not (96).