Confidence votes 18.4K. Limestone is principally CaCO3, which is a compound. Because naturally occurring limestone is usually formed from sea shells and ocean bottom debris mixed together, naturally occurring limestone is usually a mixture. 
All about Limestone Limestone is one of the most common types of rock found on the surface of the Earth. About 10% of the land surface of our planet is made of limestone or similar types of rock; while around 25% of the world’s population either live on or take their water from limestone. It is thought that 50% of all our oil and gas reserves are trapped in limestone buried beneath the surface
Concrete is a hardened material that forms when a mixture of cement, sand, crushed stone and water is poured into moulds or formwork and allowed to cure or harden. Cement is made by strongly heating a mixture of limestone, silica and clay in a kiln until small pea-sized lumps called ‘clinker’ form. This is then ground to a powder, the key ingredients of which are dicalcium silicate, tricalcium silicate, tricalcium aluminate and calcium oxide. Kiln reactions include:
Portland cement is the most common type of cement in general use around the world, used as a basic ingredient of concrete, mortar, stucco, and most non-speciality grout. It was developed from other types of hydraulic lime in England in the mid 19th century and usually originates from limestone. 
Three types of calcium carbonate-containing rock are excavated and used by industry. They are limestone, chalk and dolomite. Limestone and chalk are both forms of calcium carbonate and dolomite is a mixture of calcium and magnesium carbonates. All have impurities such as clay but some rocks are over 97% pure.
Commodity: Limestone, a sedimentary rock that is dominantly composed of the calcium-bearing carbonate minerals calcite and dolomite. Calcite is chemically calcium carbonate (formula CaCO3). Dolomite is chemically calcium-magnesium carbonate (formula CaMg(CO3)2). Also, the calcination (that is, the burning) of this same 100 tons of limestone would produce 45.10 tons of carbon dioxide gas (formula CO2). Limestone, however, is very rarely pure calcite, pure dolomite, or a pure mixture of the two. It typically contains a variety of accessory rock materials of which quartz, chert, clay and pyrite are among the noteworthy
In cement making. Cement is made by heating a mixture of limestone and substances such as clays (which contain silica, alumina and iron(III) oxide) in kilns at high temperatures until it almost fuses. The mixture is then cooled and ground to a fine powder and mixed with calcium sulfate (gypsum). This is cement. They are limestone, chalk and dolomite. Limestone and chalk are both forms of calcium carbonate and dolomite is a mixture of calcium and magnesium carbonates. All have impurities such as clay but some rocks are over 97% pure.
What is Limestone. Limestone is a sedimentary rock, which means it was formed from small particles of rock or stone that have been compacted by pressure. Sedimentary rock is important because it often contains fossils and gives clues about what type of rock was on the Earth long ago. The second way limestone is formed is when water containing particles of calcium carbonate evaporate, leaving behind the sediment deposit. The water pressure compacts the sediment, creating limestone. The area around the Great Lakes, such as Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois, has a large amount of