How long does the whole process last? For first-time mothers, the average is 14 hours, though of course it can be much longer or much shorter. For moms who've given birth before, the average labor and delivery lasts around 8 hours. This first step in the journey toward childbirth lasts an average of 6 to 10 hours for a first-time mother, but can be much shorter (especially if you've given birth before) or much longer.
For first-time mums, the active first stage of labour (where the cervix dilates from 4cm to 10cm), lasts an average of eight hours, and is unlikely to last longer than 18 hours. For women who've had a baby before, the average is five hours, and it's unlikely to last longer than 12 hours (NCCWCH 2014) .
THIRD STAGE: Expulsion of the placenta. An average length of labor for a woman having her first child is 12 to 18 hours. An average length of labor for a woman having her second or more child is considered to be about 7 hours.
How long it lasts: Early labor is unpredictable. For first-time moms, the average length of early labor is six to 12 hours. It's often much shorter for subsequent deliveries. What you can do: Until your contractions increase in frequency and intensity, it's up to you.
Report Abuse. The average length for a first time mother is 12-18 hours. Some mothers are in labor longer, some less. It is not unusual for a mother with back labor to be in labor for up to 48 hours. My mom's labor with me was 36 hours (she had back labor) and my labor with my daughter was only 11 hours.
The average length for a first time mother is 12-18 hours. Some mothers are in labor longer, some less. It is not unusual for a mother with back labor to be in labor for up to 48 hours.
Your midwife will write down the length of your labour in your birth notes. This will probably refer to how long it took for your cervix to open from about 4cm to 10cm (4in). At 10cm, you are fully dilated and are ready to start pushing your baby out.
During a first-time birth, a first labor lasts 16 hours on average, however, this can vary tremendously. Labor can be divided into three stages. Stage one, where the cervix dilates, is subdivided into three phases, early, active and transition. Early labor is the longest part, lasting eight to 10 hours.