In Greek, the name Isidore means-strong gift practical greedy impatient. The name Isidore originated as an Greek name. In Greek, the name Isidore means-strong gift practical greedy impatient. The name Isidore originated as an Greek name. The name Isidore is most often used as a boy name or male name.
Isidore /isi-do-re/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Isidore is gift of Isis. Isis was the principal goddess of ancient Egypt, and Isidore was a popular name among the ancient Greeks. There were several saints named Isidore. Isidore is a rare given name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#42363 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Isidore (/ˈɪzədɔːr/ , sometimes spelled Isidor, Isadore, or Isador) is a male given name of Greek origin, derived from ἰσίδωρος, Isidōros (isídōros a compound OF, Ísis, isis ísis, and : δῶρον dōron [gift of] The ). goddess isis Similar gift names include the Greek  Theodore  (gift of God), the Persian  Mithradates  (gift of Mithras ) and Datis (gift), and the Hebrew Matanya (gift of YHWH ). The Indo-European gift names are ultimately derived from the * PIE root *deh₃- , to give. Isidora is the equivalent female given name.
Meaning of Isidore. Greek name. In Greek, the name Isidore means-strong gift practical greedy impatient.The name Isidore originated as an Greek name. The name Isidore is most often used as a boy name or male
Greek Meaning: The name Isidore is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Isidore is: Strong Gift. Gift of Isis (this name is Greek, even though Isis is an Egyptian deity). St Isidore of Seville tried to convert Spanish Jews to Christianity during the 7th century. American Meaning: The name Isidore is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Isidore is: Strong Gift. Gift of Isis (this name is Greek, even though Isis is an Egyptian deity).
Tweet. [ 3 syll. i-si-do-re, is-id-ore ] The baby boy name Isidore is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is IH Z-ih-DowR in English or iy-Ziy-D OW R in French †. Isidore is largely used in the English and French languages, and its origin is Old Greek. The name is of the meaning gift of Isis. It is from the elements 'doron' meaning gift; 'Isis'
From the Greek name ισιδωρος (Isidoros) which meant gift of Isis, derived from the name of the Egyptian goddess ISIS combined with Greek δωρον (doron) gift. Saint Isidore of Seville was a 6th-century archbishop, historian and theologian. 
Isidore is a rare given name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#42363 out of 150436, Top 28%).(2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Isidore for boys. Isidore reached its peak position of #446 in the U.S. in the 1900s, but is not ranked currently.