Edit 0 14 …. Salmonella was discovered in 1884 by American scientist, Dr. Daniel Salmon. Salmonella enterica are rod shaped (baccillus) bacteria. They are commonly found in raw meat, chicken, contaminated water, and even egg shells. Upon entering the host such as an animal, it stays in its intestinal tract. Three variasions of Salmonella enterica are Typhi, Enteritidis, and Typhimurium
Salmonella a of rod-shaped, Gram-negative bacteria. There are only two species of Salmonella, Salmonella bongori and Salmonella enterica. The genus belongs to the same family as Escherichia, which includes the species E.coli. They cause illnesses such as typhoid fever, paratyphoid fever, and food poisoning. Salmonella is a type of bacteria that can be found in raw meats, poultry, and some other types of produce. This bacteria can cause a lot of different types of illness from an … upset stomach to food poisoning and may be fatal.
Salmonella bongori is a pathogenic bacterium belonging to the genus Salmonella, and was earlier known as Salmonella subspecies V or S. enterica subsp. bongori or S. choleraesuis subsp. bongori. 
Initially, each Salmonella species was named according to clinical considerations, for example Salmonella typhi-murium (mouse typhoid fever), S. cholerae-suis. Most cases of invasive nontyphoidal salmonella infection (iNTS) are caused by S Typhimurium or S Enteritidis. A new form of Salmonella Typhimurium (ST313) emerged in the southeast of the African continent 75 years ago, followed by a second wave which came out of central Africa 18 years later.
Best Answer: Actually, Salmonella is a scientific name for a genus of bacteria. There are many species like Salmonella minnesota, Salmonella enteritidis etc. Salmonella is a genus (that is, a group of very closely-related) of bacteria. So Salmonella is the scientific name for any one of a number of bacteria. There are 3 species within the Salmonella genus: Salmonella bongori Salmonella enterica Salmonella typhi Salmonella enterica is the one that causes food poisoning. Salmonella typhi is the one that causes Typhoid fever. Brian L · 7 years ago
EDIT: Salmonella enterica (formerly Salmonella choleraesuis) is a rod shaped, flagellated, aerobic, Gram-negative bacterium, and a member of the genus Salmonella. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The most common is Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium The more severe relative that causes typhoid fever is Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhi For both enterica is the species name. Source(s): Microbiologist. Weise Ente · 6 years ago
There are two species of Salmonella, Salmonella bongori and Salmonella enterica. Salmonella enterica is further divided into six subspecies and over 2500 serovars. Salmonellae are found worldwide in both cold-blooded and warm-blooded animals, and in the environment. Most cases of invasive nontyphoidal salmonella infection (iNTS) are caused by S Typhimurium or S Enteritidis. A new form of Salmonella Typhimurium (ST313) emerged in the southeast of the African continent 75 years ago, followed by a second wave which came out of central Africa 18 years later.
Salmonella /ˌsaelməˈnɛlə/ ˌsælməˈnɛlə is a genus of-rod (shaped) bacillus bacteria of The enterobacteriaceae. Family there are two species Of, Salmonella salmonella bongori And salmonella. enterica Most cases of invasive nontyphoidal salmonella infection (iNTS) are caused by S Typhimurium or S Enteritidis. A new form of Salmonella Typhimurium (ST313) emerged in the southeast of the African continent 75 years ago, followed by a second wave which came out of central Africa 18 years later.