ethics. rules or principles which govern right conduct. Each practitioner, upon entering a profession, is invested with the responsibility to adhere to the standards of ethical practice and conduct set by the profession. code of ethics. the written rules of ethics. 2. systematic rules or principles governing right conduct. Each practitioner, upon entering a profession, is invested with the responsibility to adhere to the standards of ethical practice and conduct set by the profession. adj., adj eth´ical. applied ethics practical ethics.
a branch of philosophy concerned with the foundations of ethics and especially with the definition of ethical terms and the nature of moral discourse. moralism. the practice of morality, as distinct from religion. — moralist, n. 2. ethics (used with a sing. verb) The study of the general nature of morals and of the specific moral choices to be made by a person; moral philosophy. 3. ethics (used with a sing. or pl. verb) The rules or standards governing the conduct of a person or the members of a profession: medical ethics.
2. 'ethics'. Ethics are moral beliefs and rules about right and wrong. When you use ethics with this meaning, it is a plural noun. You use a plural form of a verb with it. Such action was a violation of medical ethics. Ethics is also the study of questions about what is morally right or wrong. eth·i·cal. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or dealing with ethics: an ethical treatise. 2. Being in accordance with the accepted principles of right and wrong that govern the conduct of a profession: an ethical act. See Synonyms at moral. 3. Relating to or being a drug dispensed solely on the prescription of a physician.
: rules of behavior based on ideas about what is morally good and bad. ethics: an area of study that deals with ideas about what is good and bad behavior: a branch of philosophy dealing with what is morally right or wrong. : a belief that something is very important. Full Definition of ETHIC. 1. plural but sing or plural in constr: the discipline dealing with what is good and bad and with moral duty and obligation. 2. c: a guiding philosophy. 3
Cyberethics is the philosophic study of ethics pertaining to computers, encompassing user behavior and what computers are programmed to do, and how this affects individuals and society. Contents. 
1. The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn from this science; a particular system of principles and rules concerting duty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a single class of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medical ethics.
ethics: an area of study that deals with ideas about what is good and bad behavior: a branch of philosophy dealing with what is morally right or wrong. Full Definition of ETHIC. 1. plural but sing or plural in constr: the discipline dealing with what is good and bad and with moral duty and obligation. 2. c: a guiding philosophy. 3
2. 'ethics'. Ethics are moral beliefs and rules about right and wrong. When you use ethics with this meaning, it is a plural noun. You use a plural form of a verb with it. Such action was a violation of medical ethics. Ethics is also the study of questions about what is morally right or wrong. 2. ethics (used with a sing. verb) The study of the general nature of morals and of the specific moral choices to be made by a person; moral philosophy. 3. ethics (used with a sing. or pl. verb) The rules or standards governing the conduct of a person or the members of a profession: