Powdered or ground mustard tends to have a milder flavor than prepared mustard because the seeds are uncooked and lose some of the freshness during grounding. Prepared mustard can also be spicier due to use of black or brown mustard seeds instead of white to get a hot mustard and longer heating during processing. Another way at looking at it is: Mustard seeds are ground up to make a powder: Dry Mustard. Manufacturers and home cooks, mix this powder with a liquid (Wine: French, Beer: German, Water: English) to make a wet mustard.
I think the answer is in the question. Wet mustard is not the same as dry mustard. Wet and dry are mutually exclusive. Wet mustard is usually found in jars, whereas dry mu … stard is a yellow powder sold in tins. Another way at looking at it is: Mustard seeds are ground up to make a powder: Dry Mustard. Manufacturers and home cooks, mix this powder with a liquid (Wine: French, Beer: German, Water: English) to make a wet mustard.
Mustard is a condiment made from the seeds of a mustard plant (white or yellow mustard, Sinapis alba; brown or Indian mustard, Brassica juncea; or black mustard, B. nigra). The whole, ground, cracked, or bruised mustard seeds are mixed with water, salt, lemon juice, or other liquids, and sometimes other flavorings and spices, to create a paste or sauce ranging in color from bright yellow to dark brown. The tastes range from sweet to spicy.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: any spices such as ground mustard can be ignored if you don't have them. I might use thyme in place of the mustard. or depending on my mood I might just leave it out entirely. I am trying to make the classic meatloaf for the first time and the recipe I found includes ground mustard. Update: The recipe asks for a 1/2 teaspoon of
Ground Mustard contains only ground seeds of the mustard plant. This slightly spicy herb gives mustard it's characteristic flavor. In North America almost all ground mustard i … s make from mild white (yellow) seeds. Prepared mustard contain the seeds, but other ingredients are added to help compliment increase flavor. Acid, water, garlic, onion, salt, turmeric, chili, are common ingredients added to American style mustard.
Ground Mustard. Ground mustard is also called powdered mustard, mustard powder or mustard flour. It is made by grinding mustard seeds and then sifting the seed coat out to leave a fine powder behind. This powder is not as pungent or potent as whole mustard seeds. Cooking with Ground Mustard. The flavor of ground mustard develops when soaked in liquid to bring out the pungent compounds. It is commonly used in spice rubs, salad dressings, soups, and to add an acidic component to cut through rich sauces like for macaroni and cheese.
Ground Mustard contains only ground seeds of the mustard plant. This slightly spicy herb gives mustard it's characteristic flavor. In North America almost all ground mustard i … s make from mild white (yellow) seeds. Prepared mustard contain the seeds, but other ingredients are added to help compliment increase flavor. Another way at looking at it is: Mustard seeds are ground up to make a powder: Dry Mustard. Manufacturers and home cooks, mix this powder with a liquid (Wine: French, Beer: German, Water: English) to make a wet mustard.
At its most basic, mustard is made by mixing the ground seeds of the mustard plant with liquid, but it's the choice of seeds and type of liquid used that creates the varieties of mustard we know today. The magic of mustard's pungency and heat comes from enzymes that convert into mustard oil once the seed is broken. 
Three varieties of mustard plants yield seeds for making ground or dry mustard: the black mustard plant, brown mustard plant and white mustard plant. Vinegar or water must be added to ground mustard seed to create the wet mustard. The granular and powdery consistency of ground mustard exactly parallels the substance which some manufacturers market as dry mustard. Labeling creates the only difference. Grind mustard seeds to make