share podiatric medicine or podiatry is a field of medicine that strives to improve the overall health and well being of patients by focusing on preventing diagnosing and treating conditions associated with the foot and ankle
Podiatric Medicine is the health care specialty that provides comprehensive medical treatment of the foot. What is a Podiatrist? Throughout the United States and Puerto Rico, most people know that a Podiatrist is the term for an individual with a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (D.P.M.) degree.
Podiatric medicine is a branch of the medical sciences devoted to the study of human movement, with the medical care of the foot and ankle as its primary focus. A Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) undergoes lengthy, thorough study to become uniquely well-qualified to treat a specific part of the body.
Podiatric medicine, formerly called podiatry, is a branch of the medical sciences devoted to the study of human movement, with the medical care of the foot and ankle as its primary focus.
Doctors of Podiatric Medicine (DPMs) strive to improve the overall health of their patients by focusing on preventing, diagnosing, and treating conditions associated with the foot and ankle. They treat a variety of conditions and employ innovative treatments to improve the well-being of their patients.
According to the American Association of Colleges of Podiatric Medicine, a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) is a medical specialist who diagnoses and treats conditions affecting the foot, ankle, and structures of the leg.
A doctor of podiatric medicine is to the foot what a dentist is to the mouth or an ophthalmologist to the eye-a specialist who has undergone lengthy, thorough study to become uniquely well-qualified to treat a specific part of the body.
Podiatric medicine is a branch of the medical sciences devoted to the study of human movement, with the medical care of the foot and ankle as its primary focus.
A podiatrist is a doctor of podiatric medicine (DPM), also known as a podiatric physician or surgeon. Podiatrists diagnose and treat conditions of the foot, ankle, and related structures of the leg.