No it didn't. While homo sapiens first occurred in Africa, civilized people first developed their civilizations in the Near East. Points for Africa: the longest continuous civilization was that of ancient Egypt. Voxygen8 · 9 years ago. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Ok, first of all, whether the first civilization was in Africa or not is not relevant to whether people are African nowadays. My direct ancestors a couple of generations back came from Ireland and Finland, but I am not Irish or Finnish, I'm American.
Report Abuse. For one the Nubian sub saharan civilization was more advanced than europe of the middle ages, that means prior to white european contact. It was murderous european and arabs in the slave trade and killing off this and other civilizations in Africa to exploit their resources. A lot of their inventions, knowledge and technology actually came from the Middle East, the Far East and to a less extent Egypt. The only civilizations known to develop independently are Egypt, Mesopotamia, China, Mesoamerica, and the Andes in South America and probably India. None in Europe. As for Africa, civilization developed their too. The reason Europe may have developed before was due to trade with more advanced civilizations from the Middle East and Far East, because Europe for a fact did not develop indigenously
Best Answer: Human life began in Africa, e.g., Olduvai Gorge and Sterkfontaine contain some of the earliest human fossils. There was an initial radiation of the hominids out of Africa into and through the middle east and on to Asia. Report Abuse. Well, the oldest skulls are found in Africa and African people have the largest gene pool of any race. In fact, every race has some 'african' markers in their DNA...So YEAH, life probably did begin somewhere in that part of the world.
Report Abuse. It did start in Mesopotamia based on evidence found in that area. I would not use wikipedia as a source for something like this, as you can go in and alter what it says. As time went on populations spread to the surrounding areas; including Africa, Asia, and Europe. So can't we assume that because it is so old we don't know how old it is that it would be the oldest. I am asking because my college professors says that scholars intentionally obscure the fact that Civilization began in Africa (by Africans of course). I did some research and apparently this is true.
Africa provides a comprehensive and contigious time line of human development going back at least 7 million years. Africa, which developed the world's oldest human civilization, gave humanity the use of fire a million and half to two million years ago. It is the home of the first tools, astronomy, jewelry, fishing, mathematics, crops, art, use of pigments, cutting and other pointed instruments and animal domestication. In short Africa gave the world human civilization. Millions of years ago human life started in Africa, Australopithecus aphaeresis and Australopithecus africanus and Australopithecus robustus were all key rungs in the development of humanity.
as far as the scientists have found today,the oldest skull have found in africa so there is a theory that human life begin in africa ,but if in the future they find another skull in other place that is the same or older than the skull in africa, the theory will change. aloha · 6 years ago. Report Abuse. Well, the oldest skulls are found in Africa and African people have the largest gene pool of any race. In fact, every race has some 'african' markers in their DNA...So YEAH, life probably did begin somewhere in that part of the world.
Second, as some of the prior answers pointed out, there's evidence that the first genetically modern people originated in Africa (they were apparently the southern population of h. sapiens heidelbergensis, whose nothern population eventually died out). But less reason to believe the first civilizations were there. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Ok, first of all, whether the first civilization was in Africa or not is not relevant to whether people are African nowadays. My direct ancestors a couple of generations back came from Ireland and Finland, but I am not Irish or Finnish, I'm American.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Human life began in Africa, e.g., Olduvai Gorge and Sterkfontaine contain some of the earliest human fossils. There was an initial radiation of the hominids out of Africa into and through the middle east and on to Asia. Later waves of migrants moved into Europe. Report Abuse. Well, the oldest skulls are found in Africa and African people have the largest gene pool of any race. In fact, every race has some 'african' markers in their DNA...So YEAH, life probably did begin somewhere in that part of the world.