noun. The battlement atop a castle tower. The battlement atop a castle tower. The definition of a battlement is the design at the top of old castle walls that looks like upside down teeth and is used to allow space for archers or sharpshooters to fire at intruders. An example of a battlement is the stone architecture seen atop a medieval watchtower. A notched parapet built on top of a wall, with alternating merlons and crenels for decoration or defense. Also called embattlement. Middle English batelment, alteration (influenced by batel, battle) of Old French batillement, tower, turret, from bastille; see bastille.
Definition of BATTLEMENT for Kids. : a low wall (as at the top of a castle) with openings to shoot through. Full Definition of BATTLEMENT. : a parapet with open spaces that surmounts a wall and is used for defense or decoration. — bat·tle·ment·ed \-ˌmen-təd\ adjective. See battlement defined for English-language learners
A battlement in defensive architecture, such as that of city walls or castles, comprises a parapet (i.e. a defensive low wall between chest-height and head-height), in which rectangular gaps or indentations occur at intervals to allow for the discharge of arrows or other missiles from within the defences. In medieval England a licence to crenellate granted the holder permission to fortify their property. Such licences were granted by the king, and by the rulers of the counties palatine within their jurisdictions, i.e. by the Bishops of Durham and the Earls of Chester and after 1351 by the Dukes of Lancaster.
Hydrogen Induced Cracks (HIC). Hydrogen embrittlement is the process by which metals such as steel become brittle and fracture due to the introduction and subsequent diffusion of hydrogen into the metal. This is often a result of accidental introduction of hydrogen during forming and finishing operations. This de-embrittlement process, known as baking, is used to overcome the weaknesses of methods such as electroplating which introduce hydrogen to the metal, but is not always entirely effective.
battlement, embattlement. battlement. 1. A fortified parapet with alternate solid parts and openings, termed respectively “merlons” and “embrasures” or “crenels” (hence crenelation). Generally for defense, but employed also as a decorative motif. 2. A roof or platform serving as battle post. 3.
Thus a defensive building might be designed and built with battlements, or a manor house might be fortified by adding battlements, where no parapet previously existed, or cutting crenellations into its existing parapet wall. The solid widths between the crenels are called merlons (also cops or kneelers). A wall with battlements is said to be crenelated or embattled. Battlements on walls have protected walkways (chemin de ronde) behind them. On tower or building tops, the (often flat) roof is used as the protected fighting platform. In medieval England a licence to crenellate granted the holder permission to fortify their property. Such licences were granted by the king, and by the rulers of the counties palatine within their jurisdictions, i.e. by the Bishops of Durham and the Earls of Chester and after 1351 by the Dukes of Lancaster.
battlement. noun rampart, wall, defence, fence, fort, barricade, stronghold, barbican, bastion, embankment, parapet, fortification, bulwark, earthwork, breastwork, bartizan, crenellation Guns could also be seen behind the battlements of the fort itself. 1  Facebook. All day long he was running towers up, taking towers down, adding a wing here, putting on a battlement there, looking to the walls, strengthening the defences, giving ornamental touches to the interior, making in all respects a superb castle of it.