Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names. 
I do love the sound of this name and certainly would recommend it to any expecting parents. It's unique, beautiful, and stunning. And no, it doesn't sound like the tire company Michelin, as others have stated. Michelin is pronounced as Miche-LIN, whereas Micheline is pronounced Miche-LINE. Anyway, you always could think of a nickname for her if you think it's too long.
Please try again later. Audio and video pronunciation of Micheline brought to you by Pronounce Names (http://www.PronounceNames.com), a website dedicated to helping people pronounce names correctly. For more information about this name, such as gender, origin, etc., go to http://www.PronounceNames.com/Micheline. 1  Education. 
The free inogolo app for iphone is available now. 
mic-he-li-ne, mi-chel-ine ] The baby girl name Micheline is pronounced as Miy-SHuw-L IY IY N †. Micheline is of Hebrew origin and it is used largely in the French language. Micheline is a derivative (French) of Michaela. Micheline is also a diminutive form (French) of the English, French, and German Michelle. Micheline is infrequently used as a baby name for girls. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names
This is my name. It was a very popular name in the 1930s in France, but no, I am not French. I was born in the 70s in the US. Yes, about half pronounce it like the tire company and the other half pronounce it with 'T's, 'K's or give it an Italian accent. It's unique, beautiful, and stunning. And no, it doesn't sound like the tire company Michelin, as others have stated. Michelin is pronounced as Miche-LIN, whereas Micheline is pronounced Miche-LINE. Anyway, you always could think of a nickname for her if you think it's too long.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Micheline. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Micheline, spread the love and share this with your friends. The different meanings of the name Micheline are: The meaning of the name “Micheline” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available.
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Micheline and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Micheline and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Micheline is fascinating, learn more about it. The different meanings of the name Micheline are: The meaning of the name “Micheline” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available.
Comments and insights on the name Micheline: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Micheline: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Micheline: | Edit. Micki, Mitchie, Mish, Mich, Misha. 