Designers use a variety of fee structures and, as with other professions, base their fees on variables such as geographic location, years of expertise, professional reputation and client demand. Most designers charge using one of the following fee structures or a combination to suit a client's particular needs: 1 Cost plus -- A designer specifies materials, furnishings and services (e.g., carpentry, drapery workrooms, picture framing, etc.) at wholesale and sells to the client at the designer's cost plus a set percentage increase, or at retail rates or slightly less, to cover the designer's fee and services.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average nationally, hiring an interior decorator or designer costs $7,125, with most homeowners spending between $5,544 and $8,706. If you decide to hire a professional for decorating your house, make sure you know the right kind of one that you need. An interior decorator specializes in finding the right furnishings for your home, while an interior designer focuses more on the planning and functionality of furnishing a room. What also sets them apart is their knowledge. Decorators know about color swatches, furniture resources and creating your ideal room.
The cost of hiring an interior designer varies greatly. Most charge per hour, with the current market rate between $50 and $200 per hour. You would pay this in addition to the cost of furniture, accessories, artwork, etc. Some interior designers charge their clients by marking up the decor they choose. For example, you may agree to pay a 15 percent markup fee to your interior designer on all goods purchased.
What it will cost: Interior designers have various fee structures. They might charge an hourly rate (anywhere from $50 to $500); a flat fee, which could be as low as several thousand dollars and as high as five figures; or a percentage of total project costs. You may also be asked to pay a retainer before work begins. 
1 Hourly rates can be $35-$500, again based on location and reputation. 2  Decorators working on a flat rate or hourly basis may also charge a percentage of any products purchased. 3  It's possible to hire a decorator for just a few hours, to give you guidance and ideas. 1 Use your decorator's talents and experience to decide what painting, sewing or minor construction is needed, then do the work yourself to avoid paying contractors or other labor. 2  Explain this plan before hiring a decorator. 3  Find or take pictures of rooms you adore.
There are a few ways to charge for interior design services. Flat Fee for Interior Design. 1. FLAT RATE. An interior designer quotes a specific fee and includes a detailed list of services and the time frames that these services are covered. When a client has a project that exceeds a $50,000 budget, I prefer to use this fee structure because both sides win. 5. PERCENTAGE. A percentage interior design fee takes into account the total budget that the client will spend, including things like: construction, materials and furnishings. This fee structure is multiplied by a percentage to calculate the interior designer’s fee.
Many interior decorators charge a flat fee or design fee for large projects and set a budget amount to cover all the services. Depending on the project, the budget amount could be as low as $5,000 and as high as $50,000. Interior decorators may approach the costs issues differently. Some designers charge an hourly rate for the duration of the project. Others may set specific prices for different types of projects, and require their clients to pay for the jobs in advance.
1 Hourly fee -- Compensation is based on actual time that the designer consults on a project or specific service. 2  Percentage of project fee -- Compensation is computed as a percentage markup on the total project cost, including furnishings and services purchased or specified on behalf of a client. 1 Cost plus -- A designer specifies materials, furnishings and services (e.g., carpentry, drapery workrooms, picture framing, etc.) at wholesale and sells to the client at the designer's cost plus a set percentage increase, or at retail rates or slightly less, to cover the designer's fee and services.
1 Some decorators work for free; they're earning commissions from merchants and may steer you to the highest priced products. 2  Others charge a fixed fee, of $500-$10,000 or more depending on location and reputation. 3  Hourly rates can be $35-$500, again based on location and reputation. 1 Use your decorator's talents and experience to decide what painting, sewing or minor construction is needed, then do the work yourself to avoid paying contractors or other labor. 2  Explain this plan before hiring a decorator. 3  Find or take pictures of rooms you adore.
The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments. When deciding to work with an interior decorator it is best to have a very clearly-defined project in mind. The ASID warns that how you work with your designer will have tremendous impact on the final cost.