Filament yarns are continuous filaments. They can be monofilament or multifilament. The denier range is also quite wide. We offer products, which essentially cover almost all of the commonly used deniers in everyday life. If one look around, the most common product used are textile based.
In preferred multifilament yarns in accordance with the invention, the configuration of interlacement is fairly uniform along the length of yarn. In other words, at least 50% of compact portions in the yarn have the same or similar interlacement configuration. The interlaced multifilament yarn having the interlacement configuration as mentioned above has been proved to have the following characteristics: an overall good processability in weaving and knitting processes, and; a good bulkiness in the final form of a fabric.
We offer wide range of Multifilament Yarns that is made of polypropylene and are widely used in the manufacturing of fabrics. Our multi filament yarn is available in 400 denier to 3000 denier. Unmatched quality multi filament yarn is supplied to the wide client base at the most competitive price. We offer a wide range of polypropylene multifilament yarns (PPMF yarns) - dope dyed, used in various industries for different purposes. Our range of multifilament yarns are available in 600 denier to 2500 denier and offer in various colors. Features :
PP Multifilament Yarn. We bring forth an exceptional collection of PP Multifilament Yarn, which is widely used in the textile industry for fabricating cloths and fabrics. Our range of PP Multifilament Yarn is made of poly propylene and is available in an array of colors. The latest dope dyed process is applied to attain bright and... more...
Patents. An interlaced multifilament yarn having a balanced compactness and bulkiness, composed of compact and open portions alternately appearing along its length, said compact portions having a fairly uniform configuration of interlacement. The yarn is prepared by bringing a running bundle of filaments in contact... The interlaced multifilament yarn having the interlacement configuration as mentioned above has been proved to have the following characteristics: an overall good processability in weaving and knitting processes, and; a good bulkiness in the final form of a fabric.
We offer a wide range of PP Multifilament Yarn (PPM yarns) used in various industries for different purposes. At normal temperature this yarn gives excellent resistance to alkali's as well as acids. We offer wide range of PP Multifilament Yarn that is made of polypropylene which is widely used in the... We bring forth an exceptional collection of PP Multifilament Yarn, which is widely used in the textile industry for fabricating cloths and fabrics. Our range of PP Multifilament Yarn is made of poly propylene and is available in an array of colors. The latest dope dyed process is applied to attain bright and... more...
J.P. Fibres are the manufacturer of high quality Polypropylene Multifilament Yarn and Narrow Woven Fabric / Webbings in India. We have started our business in 2009. We deals in polypropylene Yarn and Webbing in which accuracy and uniformity of colour is guaranteed the Polypropylene yarn that we manufacture is widely used by many renowned industries in India as well as foreign Countries.
Yarn is a long continuous length of interlocked fibres, suitable for use in the production of textiles, sewing, crocheting, knitting, weaving, embroidery, and ropemaking. Thread is a type of yarn intended for sewing by hand or machine. For hand knitting and hobby knitting, thick, wool and acrylic yarns are frequently used. Other animal fibers used include alpaca, angora, mohair, llama, cashmere, and silk. More rarely, yarn may be spun from camel, yak, possum, qiviut, cat, dog, wolf, rabbit, or buffalo hair, and even turkey or ostrich feathers.
We offer a wide range of polypropylene multifilament yarns (PPMF yarns) - dope dyed, used in various industries for different purposes. Our range of multifilament yarns are available in 400 denier to 3000 denier and offer in various colors. We offer a wide range of polypropylene multifilament yarns (PPMF yarns) - dope dyed, used in various industries for different purposes. Our range of multifilament yarns are available in 600 denier to 2500 denier and offer in various colors. Features :