The best time is when your child shows signs of readiness, and not before. Healthy children aren't physically and emotionally ready to start using a potty until they are between 18 months and three years old. Boys tend to be ready a few months later than girls. However, it's also true that some parents start toilet training when their babies are very small, younger than four months. All of this doesn't happen in most children until the age of about three to four years. This is regardless of when you start potty training, or how you go about it.
If you decide to wait until a later potty training age, you can still put this time to good use. The interval between 12-18 months is the perfect time to start thinking about toilet readiness--a set of skills and interests that will help your child master advanced toilet skills later on (see below). 
True independence is a lot to ask of a baby, as it means that she knows: All of this doesn't happen in most children until the age of about three years or four years. This is regardless of when you start potty training, or how you go about it. 1  how and when to use the toilet. 2  how to hang on until she reaches the toilet.
There is no set age at which potty training or toilet training should begin; the right time depends on your child's development and readiness. But don't worry, there are ways and signs to tell if your child is able and ready to be potty trained. Potty Training Readiness - 4 Signs of Child Readiness: At around the age of 2, children become aware of their body parts and it is your role to teach your child the words for the body parts. Use words that are comfortable to you and your family. This is also your opportunity to teach your child all the other words that will be required in the potty training process.
Your child must be both physically and emotionally ready for toilet training. Most children are ready to start when they are between 22 and 30 months of age, but every child is different. Toilet training usually becomes a long and frustrating process if you try to start it before your child is ready. Before children can use the toilet, they must be able to control their bowel and bladder muscles. Most children are physically ready to toilet train before they are emotionally ready. Your child must want to use the toilet and be willing to cooperate with you. He or she may even talk about being a big boy or big girl and wearing underpants rather than diapers.
Share. The key to potty training success is starting when your son is ready. If you begin before this, the process will take longer to complete (Wu 2010) . He may be ready at the age of 18 months, or it may not be until he is four years old (ERIC 2010b) . 
Healthy children aren't physically and emotionally ready to start using a potty until they are between 18 months and three years old. All of this doesn't happen in most children until the age of about three years or four years. This is regardless of when you start potty training, or how you go about it. 1  how and when to use the toilet. 2  how to hang on until she reaches the toilet
Potty-training success hinges on physical and emotional readiness, not a specific age. Many kids show interest in potty training by age 2, but others might not be ready until age 2 1/2 or even older — and there's no rush. If you start potty training too early, it might take longer to train your child.
Healthy children aren't physically and emotionally ready to start using a potty until they are between 18 months and three years old. Boys tend to be ready a few months later than girls. Most parents start the training when their children are between two years and three years old. But there's no official age, and you needn't potty train your toddler at all if you don't want to. Some parents start potty training when their babies are younger than four months. This is done by watching for signs of an imminent pee or poo and catching it in the potty. This method is called elimination communication.