Bachelor's Degree Programs. An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years. 
A: If you want to become a nurse practitioner you will need a bachelor's of science in nursing degree which has duration of four years. Once you are done with this, you will need to enroll in a master's of science in nursing. A: To be a Nurse Practitioner in California, you will need a high school diploma or an equivalent GED to be eligible to apply for nursing programs. You can take the certificate in nursing education to be a nurse practitioner in California at the quickest.
Best Answer: 1.-You can be an LPN. License Practical Nurse. After your high school, only takes one year and 6 months. 2.- you can go little more than two years to college to have an associate in nursing or RN. (Register Nurse). 3.- Little more than 4 years and you are going to have a baccalaureate in nursing. After any of this you need to have an especial training in the delivery room. Source(s): lupelu · 8 years ago.
If you want to become a nurse, you need to determine which nursing degree is required for the nurse career you want. Learn more about the types of nursing degrees available and where to obtain the degree you need for your future nursing career. Associate's Degree in Nursing (ADN): Doctorate Degrees in Nursing: The highest degree one can earn in nursing is a doctorate level degree. You must first have a bachelor's and then a master's degree before completing the doctorate degree in nursing and becoming what some refer to as Doctor Nurse.
To work in this field, you need a degree from a CNA certificate problem. These programs typically last only 12 weeks, and some are even shorter, depending on the time you put into your classes. In order to keep that license, which you need to work in any of the fifty states, you need to complete at least 48 hours of training every two years. This will allow you to keep your skills sharp, as well as learn new skills to keep up with technology and be qualified for higher-paying jobs.
Sometimes there are programs that allow one to work from an RN, ADN, towards a Masters. It may make sense to get an ADN and then work as an RN while completing one's BSN or RN to Masters. To become a nurse, you have a choice-choose from an AS, BS, or an MS in nursing. Of course, to do an MS, you need to first complete your BS. Other than these, some colleges also offer short courses where one can train to become a Licensed Practical Nurse or a Vocational Practice Nurse. An associate and a master's usually take up to 24 months, whereas a bachelor's can take up to 48 months. usually yes, some departments dont require any eductional degrees other than a HS diploma-if you are outstanding as an officer, you could make it on SWAT or SRT but to … be a negotiator or ranking officer (say lieutenent) - college is usually a requirment.
Strict Prerequisites. In order to become a CRNA, many institutions require that you must first be a registered nurse (RN) with a bachelor’s degree. Students applying for a CRNA program should have a minimum GPA of 3.0 and in their undergraduate study to qualify. 
An associate's degree in nursing is a two-year degree that is obtained from a community college or vocational school. An associate's degree is the minimum requirement to become a Registered Nurse-however, be advised that many employers are requiring a bachelor's degree for many RN nursing roles. Bachelor's Degree in Nursing-Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN): Doctorate Degrees in Nursing: The highest degree one can earn in nursing is a doctorate level degree. You must first have a bachelor's and then a master's degree before completing the doctorate degree in nursing and becoming what some refer to as Doctor Nurse.
To be eligible to sit for the NCLEX you must first earn either an associate degree in nursing (ADN) or a Bachelor of Science in nursing (BSN). The former requires completion of a 21-month program at a career-focused college. 
A: To become a nurse practitioner, you must have a nursing degree or qualification. There are various nursing degrees you can choose from. These include: licensed practical nurse, registered nurse, Bachelor of Science in nursing, Master of Science in nursing, associate degree in nursing, and more. A: To be a Nurse Practitioner in California, you will need a high school diploma or an equivalent GED to be eligible to apply for nursing programs. You can take the certificate in nursing education to be a nurse practitioner in California at the quickest.