Inulin is a starchy substance found in a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, including wheat, onions, bananas, leeks, artichokes, and asparagus. The inulin that is used for medicine is most commonly obtained by soaking chicory roots in hot water.
Organic raw agave inulin powder is a “Super Fiber”, it has a neutral, mildly sweet flavor that not only works as a fiber, but also as a prebiotic to promote complete intestinal health.
Rated 5 out of 5 by M953 *BEST* Inulin powder I have EVER used! No joke... and I have used several brands to know what I'm talking about. First, this product has a nice, very mild, fruity taste. Second, this product dissolves better and faster in warm liquid than any other inulin powder I have purchased.
Inulin is a soluble, dietary fibre extracted exclusively from chicory root. As a soluble powder it can be added to any food or drink with little impact on taste or texture whilst adding a source of fibre to your daily diet. 100% natural, Inulin is a probiotic and bifidogenic and helps boost your fibre intake.
Inulin (Not to be confused with insulin-with an s!) is a slightly sweet carbohydrate that has certain beneficial properties. It is classified as a fiber because it passes through the digestive tract without being metabolized until it reaches the colon. Unlike cellulose fiber (bran etc) it is a soluble fiber.
How to Enjoy Agave Inulin Powder. Organic agave inulin powder is a healthy and natural sweetener that can be substituted for sugar. It's highly soluble in cold water and has a neutral taste, which makes it a great option for sweetening beverages and just about any recipe. Agave inulin powder improves the texture and tenderness of low-fat desserts which are often lacking in these areas due to an absence of ingredients.
Organic agave inulin powder is a nutritious sweetener with a neutral, clean, mildly sweet flavor that makes it a perfect substitute for sugar. Extracted from all natural organic blue agave, this powder is an excellent source of dietary fiber and acts as a prebiotic to support intestinal health.