Definition of ETIOLOGY. 1. : cause, origin; specifically: the cause of a disease or abnormal condition. 2. : a branch of knowledge concerned with causes; specifically: a branch of medical science concerned with the causes and origins of diseases. See etiology defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
etiology, aetiology. 1. the branch of medical science that studies the causes of diseases and the factors underlying their spread. 2. the accumulated knowledge of disease causes. — etiologist, n. — etiologic, etiological, adj. etiology. — aetiological, adj. Noun. 1. aetiology-the cause of a disease. etiology. cause-events that provide the generative force that is the origin of something; they are trying to determine the cause of the crash.
2. inherited. genetic code the arrangement of nucleotides in the polynucleotide chain of a chromosome; it governs the transmission of genetic information to proteins, i.e., determines the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain making up each protein synthesized by the cell. the manner in which the arrangement of nucleotides in the polynucleotide chain of a chromosome governs the transmission of genetic information to proteins, i.e. determines the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain making up each protein synthesized by the cell.
For medicine, see etiology (medicine) . Etiology (/iːtiˈɒlədʒi/ ; alternatively aetiology or aetiology) ætiology is the study of, causation or. Origination the word is derived from The greek, αἰτιολογία, aitiologia giving a reason (for, αἰτία, aitia; cause -and, -λογία). logia Etiology (/iːtiˈɒlədʒi/ ; alternatively aetiology or aetiology) ætiology is the study of, causation or. origination
aetiology. (1) As commonly used in medical practice, cause. (2) A branch of knowledge concerned with the causes of particular phenomena; specifically, a branch of medical science concerned with the causes and origins of diseases. This definition is rarely used in the working parlance. A. The causes of fibromyalgia are not known. But there are many theories such as abnormalities in brain chemicals, infections, trauma, genetics and hormonal changes.
genetic etiology. disease caused by inheritance of specific disease without the intervention of other risk factors; established by strongly positive relationship in terms of genes held in common between the affected patient and other affected individuals. the manner in which the arrangement of nucleotides in the polynucleotide chain of a chromosome governs the transmission of genetic information to proteins, i.e. determines the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain making up each protein synthesized by the cell.
genetic marker a gene having alleles that are all expressed in the phenotype, that is, they are codominant, and which can be used to study inheritance. The various blood group systems and serum or red blood cell proteins easily detected by electrophoresis or immunodiffusion are commonly used markers. the manner in which the arrangement of nucleotides in the polynucleotide chain of a chromosome governs the transmission of genetic information to proteins, i.e. determines the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide chain making up each protein synthesized by the cell.