Here in sweden where I live now, the word used is laesk (läsk 'pronounced'). Lessk my favourite fizzy drinks: Are From: Scotland Irn (Bru'scotland s other national! Drink made In scotland from!). Girders i miss it more now That i live In sweden where it is not readily. available In the west coast of Scotland, people tend to call soft fizzy drinks ginger (irrespective of whether they contain ginger or not). Otherwise, fizzy drinks. Here in sweden where I live now, the word used is laesk (läsk 'pronounced'). lessk
It's not just the Scots, a lot of folk in the North of England call the orange veg a turnip and the small white veg a swede. Coming up to Burns night a dish of Haggis, Neeps and Tatties is very traditional. Report Abuse. It's not just the Scots, a lot of folk in the North of England call the orange veg a turnip and the small white veg a swede. Coming up to Burns night a dish of Haggis, Neeps and Tatties is very traditional. I think a lot of what a turnip/swede is called is down to location/tradition.
I come from Scotland originally. In the west coast of Scotland, people tend to call soft fizzy drinks ginger (irrespective of whether they contain ginger or not). Otherwise, fizzy drinks. Here in sweden where I live now, the word used is laesk (läsk 'pronounced'). lessk
Brassica napus and B. napobrassica are called swedes (a shortening of Swedish turnip) in England, especially in the South, and in most dialects of the Commonwealth. However, in some dialects of British English the two vegetables have overlapping or reversed names. In the north of England and Scotland, the larger, yellow rutabagas are called neeps or turnips from folk etymology, while the smaller white turnips are called swedes.
Money of Scotland. The currency in Scotland is not different from the rest of the United Kingdom in that it is also consists of British Pounds (£), although Scottish banks print their own versions. City finder
The Scots often call swedes, neeps and they may also call turnips, white turnips or simply turnips. That is becuase the swede is indeed a type of turnip (a cross with a cabbage apparently). Report Abuse. It's not just the Scots, a lot of folk in the North of England call the orange veg a turnip and the small white veg a swede. Coming up to Burns night a dish of Haggis, Neeps and Tatties is very traditional. I think a lot of what a turnip/swede is called is down to location/tradition.
In Europe kraut is commonly made from the sliced roots. Rutabaga Also Called Swede Rutabaga (Brassica napobrassica) gets its name from Swedish rotabagge. In England and Canada it is commonly called Swede, or Swede turnip.. The French called it navet de Suede (Swede turnip), chou de Suede (Swede cabbage), and chou navet jaune (yellow cabbage turnip). Report Abuse. It's not just the Scots, a lot of folk in the North of England call the orange veg a turnip and the small white veg a swede. Coming up to Burns night a dish of Haggis, Neeps and Tatties is very traditional. I think a lot of what a turnip/swede is called is down to location/tradition.
The Flag of Scotland, (Scottish Gaelic: Bratach na h-Alba, Scots: Banner o Scotland), also known as St Andrew's Cross or the Saltire, is the national flag of Scotland. As the national flag, the Saltire, rather than the Royal Standard of Scotland, is the correct flag for all individuals and corporate bodies to fly. It is also, where possible, flown from Scottish Government buildings every day from 8am until sunset, with certain exceptions.
), officially the Kingdom of Sweden (Swedish: Konungariket Sverige (help·info)), is a Scandinavian country in Northern Europe. It borders Norway and Finland, and is connected to Denmark by a bridge-tunnel across the Öresund. öresund Sweden (/ˈswiːdən/ SWEE-dən; Swedish: Sverige [ˈsvaerjɛ]. ), ˈsværjɛ officially The kingdom Of (Sweden: Swedish Konungariket (sverige·help)), info is A scandinavian country In Northern. Europe it Borders norway And, finland and is connected To denmark by a-bridge tunnel across Öresund. oeresund öresund