The other sperm enters the central cell and the resulting polyploid tissue is called endosperm. The zygote divides by mitosis to form an embryo sporophyte. The endosperm is a nutrient tissue within the seed (it is most of what you eat in corn). Seeds and Fruits. Individual plants, excepting some algae, do not have the ability to move from place to place as many Protista and animals do. The names refer to the embryonic leaves called cotyledons; monocots have one cotyledon, dicots have a pair. Corn, lilies, and grasses are monocots; peas, beans, peanuts, and maple trees are dicots. Here, on the right, is blooming grass in a lawn in May; it is a close-up such as a mouse would see.
Marchantia, a liverwort. Bryophyte is a traditional name used to refer to all embryophytes (land plants) that do not have true vascular tissue and are therefore called  non-vascular plants . When extinct plants are taken into account, the picture is slightly altered. Some extinct land plants, such as the horneophytes, are not bryophytes, but also are not vascular plants because, like bryophytes, they do not have true vascular tissue. A different distinction is needed.
Diffen › Science › Biology › Botany. Angiosperms, also called flowering plants, have seeds that are enclosed within an ovary (usually a fruit), while gymnosperms have no flowers or fruits, and have unenclosed or “naked” seeds on the surface of scales or leaves. Gymnosperm seeds are often configured as cones. Angiosperms have a triploid vascular tissue, flat leaves in numerous shapes and hardwood stems. Because of the innumerable varieties of the fruit and/or flower-bearing plants, they have variegated colors and shapes of leaves, flowers and fruits. Gymnosperms are haploid, have spiky, needle-like leaves and are softwood
For example, wheat endosperm is ground into flour for bread (the rest of the grain is included as well in whole wheat flour), while barley endosperm is the main source for beer production. Other examples of endosperm that forms the bulk of the edible portion are coconut meat and coconut water, and corn. Some plants, like the orchid, lack endosperm in their seeds. In certain species (e.g. corn, Zea mays); the storage function is distributed between both endosperm and the embryo. Some mature endosperm tissues store fats (e.g. castor bean, Ricinis communis) and others (including grains, such as wheat and corn) store mainly starches. The dust-like seeds of orchids have no endosperm.
Endosperm is a tissue produced inside the seeds of most of the flowering plants around the time of fertilization. It surrounds the embryo and provides nutrition in the form of starch, though it can also contain oils and protein. This can make endosperm a source of nutrition in human diet. In certain species (e.g. corn, Zea mays); the storage function is distributed between both endosperm and the embryo. Some mature endosperm tissues store fats (e.g. castor bean, Ricinis communis) and others (including grains, such as wheat and corn) store mainly starches. The dust-like seeds of orchids have no endosperm.
Lycophytes, also known as the ‘fern allies’, are a clade of vascular plants similar to ferns but have unique leaves called microphylls. They are primitive plants and lack seeds, wood, fruit and flowers. As with the ferns, lycophytes produce spores for reproduction and are both wind-pollinated and dispersed. Growth form. The three classes of lycophytes all have very different growth forms but they do share a number of characteristics. Lycophytes have unique leaves that separate them from all other plant groups. Their leaves, known as microphylls, have only one vein that runs down the length of the leaf