Yes, lions live in the Savannah, tall grass areas which is also in Africa. Lions can live in different tall grass areas too, but they do live in Africa. African Elephants li … ve in Africa, but Asian Elephants live in Asia. Elephants can live in different Savannah areas too, but mainly yes in Africa. mostly in Africa and India Elephants live in parts of the Savanna. The Savanna's main regions are Africa, (Zimbabwe,) North and South America, Mid India and parts of Australia. Savannas cover 20% of the globe (not including oceans). The largest amount of Savannah is in Africa. Africa and Asi
Where Do Elephants Live? Elephants live in just 2 continents in the world-Africa and Asia. African elephants are found in 36 African countries. 2 species of elephants live in Africa-Savanna Elephants (which live in grasslands, marshes and beside lakes) and Forest Elephants (which live in dense rainforests). Asian elephants have smaller ears than African elephants. Indian Elephants live in 11 countries (including India and Indonesia) and go between forests and grassland (depending on where there is more food).
Yes, lions live in the Savannah, tall grass areas which is also in Africa. Lions can live in different tall grass areas too, but they do live in Africa. African Elephants li … ve in Africa, but Asian Elephants live in Asia. mostly in Africa and India Elephants live in parts of the Savanna. The Savanna's main regions are Africa, (Zimbabwe,) North and South America, Mid India and parts of Australia. Savannas cover 20% of the globe (not including oceans). The largest amount of Savannah is in Africa. Africa and
Range. African savannah elephants are found in savannah zones in 37 countries south of the Sahara Desert. African forest elephants inhabit the dense rainforests of west and central Africa. The Asian elephant is found in India, Sri Lanka, China and much of Southeast Asia. 
African elephants live in sub-Saharan Africa, the rain forests of Central and West Africa and the Sahel desert in Mali. Asian elephants live in Nepal, India and Southeast Asia in scrub forests and rain forests. There are two species of elephant. The Asian elephant and the African elephant live on separate continents and have many unique features. There are several subspecies that belong to one or the other of these two main species, though there is disagreement over just how many subspecies there are.
African elephants are the largest land animals on Earth. They are slightly larger than their Asian cousins and can be identified by their larger ears that look somewhat like the continent of Africa. (Asian elephants have smaller, rounded ears.). 
They are found throughout the grassy plains and bushlands of Africa. Savanna elephants live in eastern and southern Africa, where the highest densities are found in Botswana, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Namibia, Mozambique and South Africa. As a result of their visibility within the open areas where they live, Savanna elephants are well studied and populations are easily estimated
Small numbers of forest elephants live in dense equatorial forests of Central Africa from Zaire west to Mauritania, while savanna elephants are far more widespread in drier woodlands and savannas. Savanna elephants are now most common in Kenya, Tanzania, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Namibia, and South Africa. 