ELV1S: 30 # 1 Hits. Elvis Presley. We have 153 versions of the Elvis Presley song (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear. Personnel includes: Elvis Presley (vocals); Gordon Stoker, Ben Speer, Brock Speer, Rad Robinson, Jon Dodson, Charles ... More Elvis Presley lyrics. More popular Elvis Presley songs include: Blue Suede Shoes, That's All Right Lyrics, Love Me Lyrics, Mystery Train Lyrics, Blue Christmas Lyrics, You Don't Have To Say You Love Me Lyrics, LET ME BE YOUR TEDDY BEAR Lyrics. Lyrics Provided by LyricFind Terms
Please try again later. (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear is a popular song recorded by Elvis Presley. It was written by Kal Mann and Bernie Lowe and published in 1957 by Gladys Music. Clear melodic roots of this tune can be heard in the many early recordings of Boll Weevil, a traditional blues song. 
Music video by Elvis Presley performing (Let Me be Your) Teddy Bear (Audio). Originally released 1957. All rights reserved by RCA Records, a division of Sony Music Entertainment. ( 1 Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear by Elvis Presley (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License. 
The song was a US number-one hit for Elvis Presley during the summer of 1957, staying at number-one for seven weeks, and his third of the four that he would have that year. (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear would also hit number one on the R&B Best Sellers List, becoming his fourth number one on that chart.
Elvis Presley This song is performed by Elvis Presley and appears on the album Loving You (1957) . 
Teddy may be a punk kid, but in Paul McCartney's Teddy Boy, he's still looking to comfort his mum like a traditional teddy bear. McCartney wrote the acoustic song during the Beatles' 1969 trip to India, intending it for the forthcoming Let It Be album. The song borrows Elvis' sentiment of (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear, though it's hard to imagine him singing lyrics like 'Cause deep inside I know you're horny.. Like Little Richard's Ready Teddy ramped up to the max, this teddy bear has officially gone from child's toy to sex toy.
+234 other releases. read more. (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear is a popular song first recorded by Elvis Presley in 1957 for the soundtrack of his second motion picture, Loving You, during which Presley performs the song on screen. It was written by Kal Mann and Bernie Lowe and published in 1957 by Gladys Music
For 1976 Red Sovine hit single, see Teddy Bear (Red Sovine song) .  (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear  is a popular song first recorded by Elvis Presley in 1957 for the soundtrack of his second motion picture, Loving You, during which Presley performs the song on screen. It was written by Kal Mann and Bernie Lowe and published in 1957 by Gladys Music. (Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear would also hit number one on the R&B Best Sellers List, becoming his fourth number one on that chart.