* All sulfides are insoluble EXCEPT those of ammonium, Alkali metal (Group I) cations and Alkali earth metal (Group II) cations. * All oxides are insoluble EXCEPT those of calcium, barium and Alkali metal (Group I) cations; these soluble ones actually react with the water to form hydroxides (hydrolyse). Report Abuse. ur Rule no. 3 is wrong..it is: all HALIDES are soluble ecxept those of Ag Pb and Hg (this is the rule taught at o and a levels)..halides include salts of all the halogens including iodine so AgI is insoluble.
The structure adopted by silver iodide is temperature dependent: 1  Below 420 K, the β-phase of AgI, with the wurtzite structure, is most stable. 2  This phase is encountered in nature as the mineral iodargyrite. 3  Above 420 K, the α-phase becomes more stable. The structure adopted by silver iodide is temperature dependent: 1  Below 420 K, the β-phase of AgI, with the wurtzite structure, is most stable. 2  Above 420 K, the α-phase becomes more stable. 3  A metastable γ-phase also exists below 420 K with the zinc blende structure.
Aqueous solubility is the ability of the chemical to dissolve or  mix into water. Lipophilic solubility is the ability of the  chemical to dissolve or mix into a hydrophobic organic solvent such  as ethanol.   Solubility is the ability of a substance to dissolve in a specific  solvent. + 6 others found this useful. Damaris Torres-Ruiz. AGI on jewelry refers to the Accredited Gemological Institute, and when it appears on a piece of jewelry, it means that it is what it claims to be. The AGI has accredited it a … s such. If it is on a piece with a diamond, the diamond is genuine.
Rule 3 should include the other halides as exceptions, along with the chlorides: Hg2Br2, AgBr, PbBr2 Hg2I2, AgI, PbI2 AgF is soluble, unlike the other silver halides. Report Abuse. ur Rule no. 3 is wrong..it is: all HALIDES are soluble ecxept those of Ag Pb and Hg (this is the rule taught at o and a levels)..halides include salts of all the halogens including iodine so AgI is insoluble.
Silver iodide is an inorganic compound with the formula Ag I. The compound is a bright yellow solid, but samples almost always contain impurities of metallic silver that give a gray coloration. The silver contamination arises because AgI is highly photosensitive. This property is exploited in silver-based photography. The structure adopted by silver iodide is temperature dependent: 1  Below 420 K, the β-phase of AgI, with the wurtzite structure, is most stable. 2  Above 420 K, the α-phase becomes more stable. 3  A metastable γ-phase also exists below 420 K with the zinc blende structure.
I'm looking at the solubility rules rule 1: C2H3O2 and NO3 are soluble rule 2: K, Na, and NH4 salts are soluble rule 3: Cl ions and halogens except for Hg2Cl2, AgCl, PbCl2 rule 4: SO4 except for BaSO4, CaSO4, PbSO4 rule 5: insoluble: OH except for NaOH, KOH, and CaOH, rule 6: insoluble: sulfide,... Report Abuse. ur Rule no. 3 is wrong..it is: all HALIDES are soluble ecxept those of Ag Pb and Hg (this is the rule taught at o and a levels)..halides include salts of all the halogens including iodine so AgI is insoluble.
AgI is silver(I) iodide. Silver's atomic mass is 107.87 and iodine's is 126.9. Since those two elements bond in a 1-to-1 ratio, you add the two atomic masses to get 234.77 gra … ms/mole. Most of the time, you can round those atomic masses to the nearest whole number, so 235 grams/mole is probably acceptable. AGI on jewelry refers to the Accredited Gemological Institute, and when it appears on a piece of jewelry, it means that it is what it claims to be. The AGI has accredited it a … s such. If it is on a piece with a diamond, the diamond is genuine.
Report Abuse. Yes, AgI is a ppt. All of the Halides (Cl, Br, I) form solids with silver ion. You might check solubility constants to determine what is a ppt or not. The common ions that won't percipitate are NO3, SO4, Cl (except with silver).
1 Below 420 K, the β-phase of AgI, with the wurtzite structure, is most stable. 2  This phase is encountered in nature as the mineral iodargyrite. 3  Above 420 K, the α-phase becomes more stable. The structure adopted by silver iodide is temperature dependent: 1  Below 420 K, the β-phase of AgI, with the wurtzite structure, is most stable. 2  Above 420 K, the α-phase becomes more stable. 3  A metastable γ-phase also exists below 420 K with the zinc blende structure.