The damaged tissues cause deformity, instability, and scarring within the joints. These diseases are characterized by the presence of white blood cells in the joint fluid. The most common type of inflammatory arthritis is rheumatoid arthritis (also referred to as RA), affecting between 1 and 2 million Americans 5. It occurs most often in the hands, wrists and feet.
Inflammatory arthritis is a group of diseases characterized by inflammation of the joints and often other tissues. Because most inflammatory forms of arthritis are systemic (meaning they affect the entire body), other symptoms related to inflammation may occur in other parts of the body. Depending on the specific form of arthritis, these symptoms could include skin rashes, eye inflammation, hair loss, dry mouth and fever.
Symptoms. Types. Rheumatoid Arthritis: This is an autoimmune disease in which the antibodies developed by the body attack the synovial membrane that encloses each joint. It causes chronic inflammation of the joints, especially the peripheral joints like fingers, wrists, elbows, shoulders, hips, knees, ankles, and feet. The most common and painful form of arthritis is the inflammatory arthritis, which is an autoimmune disorder. This article provides some information about the types, causes, symptoms, and treatment.
Several features of rheumatoid arthritis, the most common of the inflammatory types of arthritis, make it a major problem for individuals and for society. It is fortunate that there have been major improvements in our therapeutic options. The inflammatory process in RA and other types of inflammatory arthritis can be thought of as a tipping of the cytokine balance in favor of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Among the most important pro-inflammatory cytokines in the RA joint appear to be TNF-alpha, IL-1, and IL-6.
Arthritis is a condition in which one or more of your joints are inflamed. This can result in stiffness, soreness, and in many cases, swelling. Inflammatory and non-inflammatory arthritis are the two most common forms of the condition. However, there are dozens of different arthritis types. Inflammatory arthritis is usually referred to as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and non-inflammatory arthritis is best known as osteoarthritis (OA). Click through the slideshow to learn more about both types
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease that causes inflammation of the joints. Because many symptoms of RA are similar to those of a variety of other diseases, diagnosis can be difficult. A correct diagnosis requires clinical evaluation, X-rays, and a series of laboratory tests. 
Advertisement. Arthritis, an inflammation or damage of the joints of the body, can be classified as either inflammatory or non-inflammatory. Inflammatory arthritis is a type of arthritis that involves the immune system and inflammation of the joints. It's an autoimmune disorder in which the body's immune system attacks its own antibodies, i.e. white blood cells in the joint fluid, leading to different types of medical problems. The most common and painful form of arthritis is the inflammatory arthritis, which is an autoimmune disorder. This article provides some information about the types, causes, symptoms, and treatment.
Even though it is called non-inflammatory arthritis, OA still results in inflammation of the joints. The difference is that this inflammation is the result of wear and tear. In particular, OA results from the breakdown of cartilage. Cartilage is the slick tissue that covers and cushions the ends of the bones in a joint. This can result in stiffness, soreness, and in many cases, swelling. Inflammatory and non-inflammatory arthritis are the two most common forms of the condition. However, there are dozens of different arthritis types.