Prices are subject to change without notice. An Herbalife Member Pack (HMP) is a start-up kit that includes a selection of Herbalife products, applications and other materials to help you get started as an Independent Herbalife Member. There are two options for you to choose from:
Herbalife Prices. At Herbalife, we value the relationship our Members build with their customers. That is why we always recommend customers take advantage of the knowledge, support and encouragement of their personal Member. This relationship is the reason we do not publish a price list online
Report Abuse. How much Herbalife products cost per month depends on what it is you're getting. Instead of going through a distributor to buy the products, get them from Amazon instead: http://amzn.to/ZY11gE There are products that sell for around $20 to over $100. I just buy the shake a protein and I spend around 145 a month and that's for one thing of protein and 2 shakes. If you buy the pills and other stuff they offer it will be more. I've lost a total of 40 lbs and only have about 10 more to go.
Herbalife PricesAt Herbalife, we value the relationship our Members build with their customers. That is why we always recommend customers take advantage of the knowledge, support and encouragement of their personal Member. This relationship is the reason we do not publish a price list online. 
Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. 1 2 3 4 5. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Top Rated Plus. Learn More.
FAQ. Founded in Los Angeles in 1980, Herbalife is a global nutrition company with millions of customers and approximately 7,800 employees. We operate our plants and facilities in the United States and China and export our products to 90 countries worldwide. We are a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: HLF), and as of December 31, 2014 we had a market capitalization of $3.5 billion.
We offer a 30-day money-back guarantee as part of Herbalife’s commitment to deliver beneficial, high-quality products. If you’re not fully satisfied with any product for any reason, simply return the unused portion within 30 days and you’ll receive a full refund. 
Tell us what you think. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Top Rated Plus. Learn More.
There are no minimum purchases required and there is a low cost for the Herbalife Member Pack. There is no requirement to purchase any sales and business tools to start up or succeed in your Herbalife Membership. 