The basic volleyball techniques for serving are. 1  Toss the ball in front of your serving shoulder. 2  Keep your elbow high and back. 3  Contact the middle of the ball with the middle of your hand. 4  Follow through on your armswing.
you could try to toss the ball in front of your hitting shoulder or your face. you want a nice high toss, and swing right threw like when you are hitting, and let your hand brush your thigh. and then it should get over, but once again i don't know what is wrong with your serve.
Toss the ball into the air. Lift the ball with your palm about 18-36 inches in the air. Keep the ball in line with your hitting shoulder and about 1 foot in front of you so you can step into the serve. Your right hand should be at a 90 degree angle behind your body. Remember that you want your dominant hand to make contact with the ball just after it changes direction and begins to drop back down.
Cock your serving arm back next to your head and toss the ball up with your palm of your left hand (not fingers) about 2 feet in the air, step forward with your left foot, and hit the bottom of the ball with the palm of your right hand (this will give it spin causing it to go higher and farther).
Volleyball Overhand Serving Drills for Beginners. Consistent overhand serving is a volleyball team's first line of offense. It is no secret that one of the most crucial aspects of your volleyball game is your serve. Beginners often start with an underhand serve but quickly move on to an overhand serve.
Step forward with your dominant foot and keep the toss in line with your hitting shoulder. As you step forward, throw the ball high into the air and slightly forward with your dominant hand. Flick your wrist when tossing the ball to create spin on the ball. 1  A consistent toss results in a consistent serve.
Here are a few fundamentals of learning to overhand serve for right-handed players. How to Serve a Volleyball. 1. Start in an up-and-back stride with most of your weight on your back right foot. 2. The left hand holds the volleyball extended forward and in front of your right side. 3. The shoulder is forward and the right shoulder is back ready to draw back.