Curcuma is a genus of about 100 accepted species in the family Zingiberaceae that contains such species as turmeric and Siam Tulip. They are native to Southeast Asia, southern China, the Indian Subcontinent, New Guinea and northern Australia. The name comes from Arabic kurkum (كركم) meaning  turmeric . Since assembly of the genus Curcuma by Linnaeus in 1753 about 130 species have been described so far.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Curcumin is a component of the Indian spice turmeric (Curcumin longa), a type of ginger. Curcumin is one of three curcuminoids present in turmeric, the other two being desmethoxycurcumin and bis-desmethoxycurcumin. 
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders.
Curcumin, is an anti-inflammatory molecule in the turmeric root, a relative of ginger. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years as a medicinal preparation and a preservative and coloring agent in foods. Curcumin was isolated as the major yellow pigment in turmeric; chemically diferulomethane, and has a polyphenolic molecular structure similar to other plant pigments (eg. Some people attribute the low incidence of Alzheimer's to a high intake of turmeric in Asia. As turmeric contains an average of 5-10% curcumin, the daily intake of curcumin is approximated in India is thought be about 125 mg.
Curcumin (/ˈkərkjuːmən/) is a diarylheptanoid. It is the principal curcuminoid of turmeric, which is a member of the ginger family (Zingiberaceae). It was first discovered about two centuries ago when Vogel and Pelletier reported the isolation of a “yellow coloring-matter” from the rhizomes of Curcuma longa (turmeric) and named it curcumin. The curcuminoids are natural phenols that are responsible for the yellow color of turmeric. Curcumin can exist in several tautomeric forms, including a 1,3-di keto form and two equivalent enol forms. The enol form is more energetically stable in the solid phase and in solution.
Turmeric is the dried rhizome (root) of the Curcuma longa plant and is one of the most widely used spices (curry) in India. Used for its flavor, as a food color and as an medicinal herb. 
The plant turmeric (Curcuma longa) is very well known in India. The root is harvested, cleaned, dried, and powdered to be used as a spice (turmeric gives curry its beautiful golden yellow color) and as a medicine. Traditionally, turmeric was used for nearly every health condition known-from smallpox to a sprained ankle. Additionally, curcumin is poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. While turmeric is excellent when used as a spice, a curcumin extract is a better choice for health benefits. As a separate, identifiable substance, curcumin was first isolated in 1815.