- Arch and Colosseum -. The Flavius amphitheatre is the biggest and most imposing in the Roman world, but is also the most famous monument in Rome and is known as the  Colosseum  or  Coliseum . Started by Emperor Vespasian of the Flavia family, it was opened by his son Titus in 80 A.D. 
It is the biggest amphitheatre built by the Roman Empire. The Colosseum was first called the Flavian Amphitheatre or in Latin, the Amphitheatrum Flavium. This was after Vespasian and Titus who had the family name of Flavius. The Colosseum, originally known as the Flavian Amphitheatre, is a large amphitheatre in the city of Rome. The construction of the Colosseum started around 70—72 AD and was finished in 80 AD. Emperor Vespasian started the works, and Emperor Titus completed them
The Colosseum or Coliseum (/kɒləˈsiːəm/ kol-ə-SEE-əm), also known as the Flavian Amphitheatre (Latin: Amphitheatrum Flavium; Italian: Anfiteatro Flavio [amfiteˈaːtro ˈflaːvjo] or Colosseo [kolosˈsɛːo]), is an oval amphitheatre in the centre of the city of Rome, Italy. The Colosseum is generally regarded by Christians as a site of the martyrdom of large numbers of believers during the persecution of Christians in the Roman Empire, as evidenced by Church history and tradition.
The Roman Coliseum. The building of the Roman Coliseum (Colosseum) was begun in 72 A.D. by Emperor Vespasian. Emperor Titus added a forth tier and dedicated the amphitheater in 80 A.D. The dedication ceremony included the slaughtering of 5,000 animals. That was followed by 100 days of games. 
After the Colosseum was partially destroyed by the earthquake, some of the fallen pieces were used to build St Peter's Basilica. It is one of the most popular Roman tourist attractions today. Ray Charles, Paul McCartney, Billy Joel and Elton John have all performed concerts at the Colloseum. Colosseum Facts. The Colosseum is an amphitheatre in the center of the city Rome, in Italy. It is also known as the Flavian Amphiteatre. It is the largest amphitheatre in the world and considered to be one of the greatest Roman architecture and engineering works.
The Colosseum is damaged because of natural disasters, in particular, earthquakes. There have also been people throughout the ages who have broken away pieces of this great structure to keep as souvenirs. The Colosseum was built between 70 A.D. and 72 A.D. and took about a decade to build. Posted on. (Answer #1). The Colosseum in Rome has been damaged both by natural disaster and simply by the fact that it is so old. The building was started around 70 AD and completely finished by 80 AD, so it is only a few decades less than two thousand years old. This of course explains a lot of why it is damage
The Romans loved gladiatorial  combats. It was the biggest arena in the Roman Empire. Its real  name was Flavian Amphitheatre and it was named after the emperors  of the Flavian dynasty who built it. Colosseum is a nickname. 1 One of the major tourist destinations in Rome is the Colosseum, the ruins of the ancient amphit…. 2  Visiting the Colosseum in Rome, Italy The Colosseum, located in Rome, Italy, is one of the most visited monuments in Europe.
Emperor Titus begun its construction in 70 AD and his son Titus competed it in 80 AD. Titus's younger brother and successor, Domitian, made further modification between 81 and … 86 AD. These emperors belonged to the Flavian dynasty; hence it was called the Flavian amphitheatre. 1 One of the major tourist destinations in Rome is the Colosseum, the ruins of the ancient amphit…. 2  Visiting the Colosseum in Rome, Italy The Colosseum, located in Rome, Italy, is one of the most visited monuments in Europe.