Angle of attack (AOA): The acute angle between the chord line of the airfoil and the direction of the relative wind. Report an issue with this definition. AOA or a: á the angle between the chord line of the wing of an aircraft and the vector representing the relative motion between the aircraft and the. atmosphere Report an issue with this definition. The acute angle formed between the chord line of an airfoil and the direction of the air that strikes the airfoil. Report an issue with this definition. The acute angle between the chord line of a propeller blade and the relative wind.
Report an issue with this definition. AOA or a: á the angle between the chord line of the wing of an aircraft and the vector representing the relative motion between the aircraft and the. Atmosphere information from the angle of attack, sensor or alpha, probe is used to trigger a stall. warning Report an issue with this definition. The acute angle formed between the chord line of an airfoil and the direction of the air that strikes the airfoil. Report an issue with this definition. The acute angle between the chord line of a propeller blade and the relative wind.
Air Operations Area (AOA) means a portion of an airport, specified in the airport security program, in which security measures specified in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations are carried out. 
In addition, this final rule amended a section of an air carrier operation regulation (14 CFR Part 121) so it would conform with changes to airport certification requirements. The revised Federal airport certification requirements went into effect on June 9, 2004. Part 139 Airports. 1  Part 139 Airport Certification Status List (MS Excel). 2  List of certificated airports by state, name, associated city, and identifier. 3  index, inactive status, and large hub airports.
1 Retrieved September 28 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Aircraft-Operations-Area-(FAA)-(AOA).html. 2  APA style: AOA. (n.d.) Acronym Finder. ( 3 2015). 4  Retrieved September 28 2015 from http://www.acronymfinder.com/Aircraft-Operations-Area-(FAA)-(AOA).html. 
AOA or a: á the angle between the chord line of the wing of an aircraft and the vector representing the relative motion between the aircraft and the. Atmosphere information from the angle of attack, sensor or alpha, probe is used to trigger a stall. Warning report an issue with this. definition Report an issue with this definition. The acute angle formed between the chord line of an airfoil and the direction of the air that strikes the airfoil. Report an issue with this definition. The acute angle between the chord line of a propeller blade and the relative wind.
Air Operations Area (AOA). Any area of an airport used or intended to be used for landing, takeoff, or surface maneuvering of aircraft. An air operations area includes such paved areas or unpaved areas that are used or intended to be used for the unobstructed movement of aircraft in addition to its associated runway, taxiways, or apron. Filed Under: Airports Tagged With: Airlines, Airports, ICAO
A final approach (also called final leg and final approach leg) is the last leg in an aircraft's approach to landing, when the aircraft is lined up with the runway and descending for landing. In aviation radio terminology, it is often shortened to final. Standard US airport traffic pattern. Fig. 4-3-2 from FAA AIM. 
This AC is based on research conducted by the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA’s) Airport Technology Research and Development Program and Center of Excellence in Airport Technology (CEAT) to examine the performance of several new FOD detection technologies. 3. This advisory circular (AC) provides information that airports can use to procure foreign object debris (FOD) detection equipment. 2. SCOPE. This AC contains minimum performance specifications for systems and equipment that detect foreign objects on airports.