Cochlea The hearing part of the inner ear is the cochlea. The cochlea is spiral-shaped, similar to the shape of a snail. The cochlea is composed of three fluid-filled chambers that extend the length of the structure. The two outer chambers are filled with a fluid called perilymph. 
1. organ of Corti-the hearing organ of the inner ear; contains receptors that respond to sound waves. hair cell-a sensory epithelial cell present in the organ of Corti. organ of hearing-the part of the ear that is responsible for sensations of sound. A specialized structure located on the inner surface of the basilar membrane of the cochlea containing hair cells that transmit sound vibrations to the nerve fibers.
: a complex epithelial structure in the cochlea that rests on the internal surface of the basilar membrane and in mammals is the chief part of the ear by which sound is directly perceived. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of ORGAN OF CORTI. : a complex epithelial structure in the cochlea that rests on the internal surface of the basilar membrane and in mammals is the chief part of the ear by which sound is directly perceived. ADVERTISEMENT. Alfonso Corti †1876 Italian anatomist.
The organ of Corti is the sensitive element in the inner ear and can be thought of as the body's microphone. It is situated on the basilar membrane in one of the three compartments of the Cochlea. It contains four rows of hair cells which protrude from its surface. 
organ of Corti-the hearing organ of the inner ear; contains receptors that respond to sound waves. hair cell-a sensory epithelial cell present in the organ of Corti. A specialized structure located on the inner surface of the basilar membrane of the cochlea containing hair cells that transmit sound vibrations to the nerve fibers.
(December 2014). The organ of Corti, or spiral organ, is the receptor organ for hearing and is located in the mammalian cochlea. Described as a masterpiece of cellular micro-architecture, this highly varied strip of epithelial cells allows for transduction of auditory signals into nerve impulses' action potential. The function of the organ of Corti is to transduce auditory signals and maximize the hair cells’ extraction of sound energy. It is the auricle and middle ear that act as mechanical transformers and amplifiers so that the sound waves end up with amplitudes 22 times greater than when they entered the ear.
The inner ear contains the sensory organs for hearing and balance. The cochlea is the hearing part of the inner ear. The semicircular canals in the inner ear are part of our balance system. The cochlea is a bony structure shaped like a snail and filled with two fluids (endolymph and perilymph). The Organ of Corti is the sensory receptor inside the cochlea which holds the hair cells, the nerve receptors for hearing. The mechanical energy from movement of the middle ear bones pushes in a membrane (the oval window) in the cochlea. This force moves the cochlea's fluids that, in turn, stimulate tiny hair cells. 
located within the organ of Corti on a thin basilar membrane in the cochlea of the inner ear. They derive their name from the tufts of stereocilia that protrude from the apical surface of the cell, a structure known as the hair bundle, into the scala media, a fluid-filled tube within the cochlea. a nerve in the head that carries signals from the cochlea of the inner ear to the brain. It is part of the vestibulocochlear nerve, the 8th cranial nerve.
The organ of Corti is located in the cochlea of the inner ear between the vestibular duct and the tympanic duct and is composed of mechanosensory cells, known as hair cells. The function of the organ of Corti is to transduce auditory signals and maximize the hair cells’ extraction of sound energy. It is the auricle and middle ear that act as mechanical transformers and amplifiers so that the sound waves end up with amplitudes 22 times greater than when they entered the ear.