To answer the question. So, what I assume the purpose of this plugin is, is that it launches the Pando Media Booster in response to some action from the user, possibly by clicking on some appropriately MIME-typed link. share | improve this answer. answered Jul 4 '12 at 8:13. Martin. 985 1 20 41. Thanks for doing some original research. 
What's New. Pando founder and director Dr. Mark Roseland re-lanches Pando at the ICLEI 2015 World Congress of Local Governments for Sustainability in Seoul, Korea. We re-launched pando.sc at the ICLEI World Congress 2015! 
pan·da. n. 1. A bear (Ailuropoda melanoleuca) of the mountains of central China, having woolly fur with distinctive black and white markings. Also called giant panda, panda bear. panda-large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. Ailuropoda melanoleuca, coon bear, giant panda, panda bear. procyonid-plantigrade carnivorous mammals.
Noun. 1. panda-large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. Ailuropoda melanoleuca, coon bear, giant panda, panda bear. procyonid-plantigrade carnivorous mammals.
panda. n. 1. (Animals) Also called: giant panda a large black-and-white herbivorous bearlike mammal, Ailuropoda melanoleuca, related to the raccoons and inhabiting the high mountain bamboo forests of China: family Procyonidae. panda-large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. Ailuropoda melanoleuca, coon bear, giant panda, panda bear. procyonid-plantigrade carnivorous mammals.
From Pando Networks: Pando is free, secure software that makes sending, receiving, and publishing files up to 1GB in size a breeze. 
1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program Pando, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 
pan•da. 1. Also called giant panda. a white-and-black bearlike mammal, Ailuropoda melanoleuca, now restricted to Central China, where it feeds mainly on bamboo: classified either as a bear or as a raccoon, or more generally the sole member of its own family, the Ailuropodidae. 2. panda-large black-and-white herbivorous mammal of bamboo forests of China and Tibet; in some classifications considered a member of the bear family or of a separate family Ailuropodidae. Ailuropoda melanoleuca, coon bear, giant panda, panda bear. procyonid-plantigrade carnivorous mammals.
PANDO File Opener. Download ». The fastest and easiest way to open your PANDO file is to double-click it. This allows the intelligence of Windows to decide the correct software application to open your PANDO file. 
About Pando. Several months ago I became obsessed with a colony of trees in Utah called Pando Trees. Measuring 43 hectares and weighing 6,000 tons, they’re pretty impressive above ground. 