The geese are a protected species. They are protected by the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981. This Act makes it an offence to kill, injure, damage or remove their nests without a licence. 
Federal law protects Canada geese, and nearly all bird species in the U.S. However, that only means people cannot harm birds without U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) permission. USFWS frequently gives permission to kill Canada geese in urban and suburban areas. 
Canada geese usually nest in March and April. Adult Canada geese have very few predators, though raccoons, skunks, fox and crows sometimes prey on their eggs. In general, geese have benefited from the way humans have altered the landscape. Canada geese are attracted to areas that provide food, water, and protection. Urban areas with lakes and ponds offer all the resources that geese need to survive
They are also protected by the Illinois Wildlife Code. In urban areas, Canada geese may not be removed. For more information about a conflict with Canada geese, contact the Illinois Department of Natural Resources Urban Waterfowl Project Manager, Roy Domazlicky, at (847) 608-3100 x32031. Canada geese are the most widespread goose in North America. While there are several subspecies of Canada geese in North America, only the giant Canada goose (Branta canadensis maxima), the largest subspecies, is known to breed in Illinois.
Canada goose has transferred from Schedule 1 to Schedule 5 of the Wildlife Act. This means the species is “not protected”, allowing anyone to hunt or kill geese at any time of year. The use of poison is not allowed as there is no poison registered for use in goose control. Canada geese now have the same protection status as many other introduced bird species such as rock pigeons, magpies, and wild turkeys. The change in status took effect from 9 June 2011 when the species formally transferred from Schedule 1 to Schedule 5
The Canada goose (Branta canadensis) is a large wild goose species with a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brown body. Native to arctic and temperate regions of North America, its migration occasionally reaches northern Europe. The Canada goose was one of the many species described by Carl Linnaeus in his 18th-century work Systema Naturae. It belongs to the Branta genus of geese, which contains species with largely black plumage, distinguishing them from the grey species of the Anser genus.
Removal. Canada geese, like all waterfowl, are protected by the federal Migratory Bird Treaty Act and Illinois Wildlife Code. It is illegal to kill or remove geese or destroy nests or eggs without a permit from the Illinois Department of Natural Resources. Canada geese are the most widespread goose in North America. While there are several subspecies of Canada geese in North America, only the giant Canada goose (Branta canadensis maxima), the largest subspecies, is known to breed in Illinois.
Introduction. Canada goose has been moved from Schedule 1 to Schedule 5 of the Wildlife Act. This means the species is no longer managed by fish and game councils but is now “not protected” (note this does not mean “pest”). Anyone can hunt or kill geese at any time of year without a need for a game licence. The use of poison is not allowed as there is no poison registered for use in goose control. Canada geese now have the same protection status as many other introduced bird species such as rock pigeons, magpies, and wild turkeys. The change in status took effect from 9 June 2011 when the species formally transferred from Schedule 1 to Schedule 5
Legal Back to Top. In Virginia the Canada goose is a protected game species and therefore all game regulations must be followed. In addition to state game laws Canada geese are also protected federally under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act.