There are a lot of loan companies that will promise you anything to get your business. The best way to speed up the approval process is to complete the application paperwork correctly and supply the right documentation.
A loan approval process should take anywhere from 1 day to 1 month, depending on the size and type of loan applied for, as well as the credit risk and underwriting needed for the borrower.
In small business, time is money, and there’s nothing more frustrating than spending time waiting for money. When you apply for a small business loan, there are a number of factors that help to determine how long it will take for your loan to be approved.
That said, in the banking industry the median small business loan is about $130,000 - $140,000 with highest around $250,000. SBA small business loans range from about $5,000 (microloans) to $5 million (largest guaranteed) with the average loan around $371,000. 5.
The length of time it will take you to get your SBA loan depends on how fast you return your completed application to the SBA. The amount of time it takes you to receive your loan is also dependent on the loan program you choose.
The micro loan, which will grant a small business up to $35,000, is usually the quickest type of SBA loan to get approved, but it might take longer to actually receive the cash. From other sources, a small business loan can approved in as little as 24 hours. A quick internet search will reveal a number of places that advertise approvals in between 24 and 72 hours from the time the correct paperwork is submitted. Of course, as with most dealings on the internet, you need to be wary of scams.
When applying for a business loan, it's essential to prepare a detailed business plan and fully inform the lender about your proposed venture. This information helps the lender to provide you with the right type of finance and advice.
Basic Loan Guaranty is the most popular SBA loan. You may use loan proceeds in any business-building manner. The key to getting your SBA loan approved fast is completing your business plan, and completing the loan application documents in a swift, but thorough manner. Again, there isn't a definitive time frame as to when you actually receive you