Women who do not have a cervix (usually because of a hysterectomy), and who also do not have a history of cervical cancer or abnormal Pap results, do not need Pap tests. Women ages 65 and older who have had three normal Pap tests in a row and no abnormal test results in the last 10 years do not need Pap tests. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period.
Font Size. A. A. A. A Pap test looks for changes in the cells of the cervix that show cervical cancer or conditions that may develop into cancer. Pap screen testing should begin at age 21. Routine screening is recommended every three years for women ages 21 to 65. 
Talk with your doctor about what is best for you. Most women can follow these guidelines: 1  If you are between ages 21 and 29, you should get a Pap test every 3 years. 2  If you are between ages 30 and 64, you should get a Pap test and human papillomavirus (HPV) test together every 5 years or a Pap test alone every 3 years. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period.
From age 30-65 a Pap smear should be done every 3-5 years. If a women previously has multiple normal Pap smears, the Pap can be spaced out to 3 years. If HPV testing is done with their Pap smear (co-testing), both can be repeated in 5 years. From age 65 a Pap smear is not recommended, if she is low risk. From age 21-30 a Pap smear should be done every 3 years. No HPV testing is needed yet. Since young women have such strong immune systems and can fight off HPV so well, HPV testing isn’t recommended yet. Even if they are exposed to HPV, there is an excellent chance they will clear the infection within a few years.
Cervical cancer screening is especially important for women’s health — but how and when it should be done has been the subject of some recent debate. Current guidelines from the American Society of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommend that women should have a Pap smear every two years starting at age 21.
1 If you are between ages 30 and 64, you should get a Pap test and human papillomavirus (HPV) test together every 5 years or a Pap test alone every 3 years. 2  If you are 65 or older, ask your doctor if you can stop having Pap tests. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period.
1 If you are between ages 21 and 29, you should get a Pap test every 3 years. 2  If you are between ages 30 and 64, you should get a Pap test and human papillomavirus (HPV) test together every 5 years or a Pap test alone every 3 years. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period. No. Doctors suggest you schedule a Pap test when you do not have your period. The best time to be tested is 10 to 20 days after the first day of your period.
The exception to this would be for women who have had an abnormal smear in the previous five years in which case smears should be done annually. But once you have had normal smears for five years, then it is normal practice everywhere to revert to the standard recall time of three years. I'm not surprised you are unhappy-I would be too. It is generally accepted that every woman should have a smear test at least once every three years, and that an interval of five years is too long, regardless of whether you are 25 or 45.