Scrum is an agile methodology that can be applied to nearly any project; however, the Scrum methodology is most commonly used in software development. In Scrum project management, on the first day of a sprint and during the planning meeting, team members create the sprint backlog. The sprint backlog can be thought of as the team's to-do list for the sprint, whereas a product backlog is a list of features to be built (written in the form of user stories).
Scrum is part of the Agile movement. Agile is a response to the failure of the dominant software development project management paradigms (including waterfall) and borrows many principles from lean manufacturing. 1 Scrum Master: The Scrum Master acts as a facilitator for the Product Owner and the team. 2  The Scrum Master does not manage the team. 3  The Scrum Master works to remove any impediments that are obstructing the team from achieving its sprint goals.
Scrum is facilitated by a scrum master, who is accountable for removing impediments to the ability of the team to deliver the product goals and deliverables. The scrum master is not a traditional team lead or project manager, but acts as a buffer between the team and any distracting influences. Scrum of scrums [edit]. The scrum of scrums is a technique to scale scrum up for multiple teams working on the same product, allowing teams to discuss progress on their interdependencies, focusing on how to coordinate delivering software, especially on areas of overlap and integration.
1 A product owner creates a prioritized wish list called a product backlog. 2  During sprint planning, the team pulls a small chunk from the top of that wish list, a sprint backlog, and decides how to implement those pieces. Learn About Scrum. Scrum is an Agile framework for completing complex projects. Scrum originally was formalized for software development projects, but it works well for any complex, innovative scope of work. The possibilities are endless.
Scrum methodology is facilitated by a scrum master, a major role in the scrum meth} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGood_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|Parallel processing is a method of simultaneously breaking up and running program tasks on multiple microprocessors, thereby reducing processing time. 
Part of the Software development glossary: A scrum master is the facilitator for a product development team that uses scrum, a rugby analogy for a development methodology that allows a team to self-organize and make changes quickly. The scrum master manages the process for how information is exchanged. That does not mean that the job is easy, however. The scrum master is responsible for: 1. Helping the team to reach consensus for what can be achieved during a specific period of time. (See sprint). 2. Helping the team to reach consensus during the daily scrum.
The ScrumMaster is the one who implements and facilitates the use of scrum by a team during a project. The ScrumMaster ensures that the scrum methodology is properly implemented. Scrum certification involves taking a course that results in the participant taking an exam. 
Overview. The Professional Scrum Master (PSM) course is a 2-day course that covers the principles and (empirical) process theory underpinning the mechanics, rules and roles of the Scrum framework. Advanced tools for servant-leadership are provided to increase a Scrum Master’s effectiveness. Professional Scrum Master is THE cutting-edge course for effective Scrum Masters and anyone supporting a software development team's efficiency and effectiveness. Scrum.org selects only the most qualified instructors to deliver this course