Children should begin to ride in a booster seat when they have outgrown their forward-facing car seat, usually when they are over 40 pounds. (If the upper weight limit of the forward-facing car seat with harness is higher than 40 pounds, then they should move to a booster seat when they reach the upper weight limit.). Unlike car seats, booster seats use the adult lap and shoulder seat belt to buckle children in safely. A child is too big for his booster seat when the adult seat belt fits right. (See below for information on when the seat belt fits correctly.). Children can ride safely in a seat belt when the seat belt fits right, typically when they are at least 4'9 tall, around and 8 years old. The seat belt fits right when:
Children should ride in a forward-facing seat with a harness when they are more than 20 pounds and are over one year of age. A child is too big for the forward-facing car seat when: He reaches the upper weight limit for the car seat. A child is too big for his booster seat when the adult seat belt fits right. (See below for information on when the seat belt fits correctly.). Children can ride safely in a seat belt when the seat belt fits right, typically when they are at least 4'9 tall, around and 8 years old. The seat belt fits right when:
Age 2 up to at least Age 5: Forward-facing car seat. When children outgrow their rear-facing seats they should be buckled in a forward-facing car seat, in the back seat, until at least age 5 or when they reach the upper weight or height limit of their particular seat. Make sure children are properly buckled up in a car seat, booster seat, or seat belt, whichever is appropriate for their age, height and weight. Birth up to Age 2: Rear
Pay close attention to the weight limits of the car seat and be sure you're looking at the forward-facing harness weight limit, not the booster weight limit (if it is a combination car seat). When your child is forward-facing, the harness slots should be at or above the child's shoulders. One of my sons was able to stay in his harnessed car seat until he was 6. My youngest son is almost 3 now, is fairly tall, and still has plenty of room to grow in his rear-facing car seat. For most kids, there shouldn't be a reason to move to a booster at age 3.
When your child does move to a backless booster, be sure that they have a vehicle head restraint behind their head, at least up to the tips of their ears. Generally, kids will need a booster until they are 4’9″ tall, which happens around age 11 for most kids. That means the decision to move from harness to booster is rooted in the child’s maturity. The ability to sit correctly for the entire ride, 100% of the time, happens somewhere past age 5 for most kids, and not until 6 or 7 for a many others. Booster training in the Graco TurboBooster with Safety Surround.
The Bottom Line. Before moving to a booster seat, your child should be: 1  At least 5 years old. 2  Meet the weight and height minimums for the booster seat you’re considering. 3  Responsible enough to sit properly 100% of the time, even while asleep. That means the decision to move from harness to booster is rooted in the child’s maturity. The ability to sit correctly for the entire ride, 100% of the time, happens somewhere past age 5 for most kids, and not until 6 or 7 for a many others. Booster training in the Graco TurboBooster with Safety Surround.
Stephanie Tombrello. child passenger safety specialist. You can safely switch your child to a booster seat if she's at least 4 years old and she weighs 40 pounds or more or has grown too tall for her car seat (when her shoulders are higher than the top set of harness-strap slots in the car seat's back). In a crash, belt-positioning seats are far safer. (If you have only lap belts in the rear of your car, select a booster seat with an extra energy absorber belt.) Backless booster seats tend to provide a better fit than the high-back kind, and are more portable when you're switching them from car to car.
Keep your child in a booster seat until he or she is big enough to fit in a seat belt properly. For a seat belt to fit properly the lap belt must lie snugly across the upper thighs, not the stomach. The shoulder belt should lie snugly across the shoulder and chest and not cross the neck or face. Your child should remain in a rear-facing car seat until he or she reaches the top height or weight limit allowed by your car seat’s manufacturer. Once your child outgrows the rear-facing car seat, your child is ready to travel in a forward-facing car seat with a harness and tether.