For a basic 6 cabinets project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $228.12 - $366.99 per cabinet. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. Kitchen Cabinet Installation-Average Cost Per Cabinet. Expect to pay in the high end of the estimated price range for a licensed, bonded and insured contractor and for complex or rush projects. Hire carefully, only after verifying prior work quality.
The kitchen serves as the heart of the home in many ways, and some of the biggest items visible within the kitchen are the cabinets. The cost of cabinet installation is certainly not set in stone, but this cost guide can better prepare homeowners for some of the most common expenses associated with the project. Having a better understanding of the costs involved with cabinet installation can help homeowners budget for this big project. Prices listed are merely guidelines, but they are an accurate way to know what to expect before hiring professional assistance.
Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average, cabinet installation costs $4,656, with most homeowners spending between $2,068 and $7,255. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Cabinets help define the personality of your kitchen and bathrooms. In fact, they're some of the first parts to look dated
1 Stock cabinets come pre-made in specific styles, shapes and finishes. 2  A lot depends on the size and shape of your kitchen and the total linear feet of cabinets needed. 3  Basic cabinets (top and bottom) for a 10x12-foot kitchen start at $4,000-$5,000 and up, not including installation and countertops. 
Cost to install kitchen cabinets varies from $40 to $110 per cabinet and actual prices will be determined by a number of factors. Kitchen cabinets installation cost comparison chart (prices per cabinet installed). Type of kitchen cabinets. Average cost of installation. Before issuing a final itemized estimate for the scope of work to perform a contractor will inspect the kitchen area and analyze work complexity according to kitchen layout and blueprints. On average total price for stock kitchen cabinets installation in 12’ x 12’ kitchen will vary from $1,300 to $1,700. Expect to spend 80% - 105% more for installation of high end custom cabinets. In the total cost will be included installation of wood fillers, moldings, toe kicks, refrigerator and dishwasher wood panels
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Cabinets! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Cabinet Installation project. For a basic 1 cabinet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Cabinets ranges between $133.60 - $237.55 per cabinet. To estimate costs for your project: 1.
From the original questioner: Thank you for your timely response. For the past two years, we have been figuring installation cost as 25% of the actual cabinet cost. For example, a $50,000 project would cost about $12,000 to install. Typically, these installations are complex and ornate. With smaller projects, 5-8,000.00, I would estimate by the hour. Estimating and Pricing for Cabinet Installation Cabinetmakers and installers discuss the ins and outs of pricing methods and rules of thumb. September 4, 2005 Question I am the owner of a high-end custom kitchen and bath company located in the Northeast.