8 Reviews. Azithromycin is the generic name for a prescription drug available as Zithromax, Zmax, and Z-Pak. The drug is an antibiotic used to treat a variety of bacterial infections, such as cat-scratch disease, ear infections, infections of the skin or surrounding tissue, and throat or tonsil infections. Doctors may also prescribe azithromycin for genital infections and sexually transmitted diseases, such as gonorrhea, infections of the urethra or cervix, genital ulcers, and severe pelvic inflammatory disease. Azithromycin belongs to group of drugs known as macrolide antibiotics.
Azithromycin is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. This includes middle ear infections, strep throat, pneumonia, traveler's diarrhea, and certain other intestinal infections. Azithromycin is an acid-stable antibiotic, so it can be taken orally with no need of protection from gastric acids. It is readily absorbed, but absorption is greater on an empty stomach. Time to peak concentration (T max) in adults is 2.1 to 3.2 hours for oral dosage forms.
Azithromycin fights bacteria in the body. Azithromycin is used to treat many different types of infections caused by bacteria, such as respiratory infections, skin infections, ear infections, and sexually transmitted diseases. Azithromycin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Azithromycin will not treat a viral infection such as the common cold or flu. Avoid taking an antacid within 2 hours before or after you take azithromycin. Some antacids can make it harder for your body to absorb
Azithromycin may also be used to treat a number of other more uncommon bacterial infections. Azithromycin is not effective against any infection caused by a virus, such as the flu, stomach flu, or common cold. Bacterial Infections. Azithromycin is most commonly used to treat the following infections: 1  Respiratory infections, such as bronchitis. 2  Ear infections (otitis media). 3  Sinus infections (sinusitis). 4  Pneumonia. 5  Throat infections (tonsillitis/ pharyngitis). 6  Skin infections, such as cellulitis, folliculitis, or impetigo
Azithromycin is an antibacterial prescription medicine approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat certain infections, such as: 1  Various bacterial respiratory diseases, including pneumonia and acute sinus and ear infections. 2  Pelvic inflammatory disease. 3  Genital ulcer disease. Azithromycin can also be used “off-label” to prevent and treat other opportunistic infections of HIV infection. “Off-label” use refers to use of an FDA-approved medicine in a manner different from that described on the medicine label.
Azithromycin (Zithromax ®) is a prescription antibiotic that is licensed to treat a number of common infections. It is part of a class of antibiotics called macrolides. Other medicines in this class include clarithromycin and erythromycin. 1 Respiratory infections, including bronchitis. 2  Ear infections (otitis media). 3  Sinus infections (sinusitis). 4  Pneumonia. 5  Throat infections (tonsillitis/ pharyngitis). 6  Skin infections (cellulitis, folliculitis, or impetigo). 7  Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID).
Azithromycin is also used to treat lung and other respiratory infections, such as bronchitis, sinusitis, community acquired pneumonia, some cases of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and whooping cough (pertussis). Doctors may also prescribe azithromycin for genital infections and sexually transmitted diseases, such as gonorrhea, infections of the urethra or cervix, genital ulcers, and severe pelvic inflammatory disease. Azithromycin belongs to group of drugs known as macrolide antibiotics.
Azithromycin is an antibiotic that is commonly prescribed for the treatment of common bacterial infections and sexually transmitted diseases such as gonorrhea and chancroid. 1 Respiratory infections, including bronchitis. 2  Ear infections (otitis media). 3  Sinus infections (sinusitis). 4  Pneumonia. 5  Throat infections (tonsillitis/ pharyngitis). 6  Skin infections (cellulitis, folliculitis, or impetigo). 7  Pelvic inflammatory disease (PID).