Slippin' and a Slidin' Transform boundaries neither create nor consume crust. Rather, two plates move against each other, building up tension, then releasing the tension in a sudden and often violent jerk. This sudden jerk creates an earthquake. The San Andreas Fault is undoubtedly the most famous transform boundary in the world.
Transform fault (the red lines). A transform fault or transform boundary, also known as conservative plate boundary since these faults neither create nor destroy lithosphere, is a type of fault whose relative motion is predominantly horizontal in either sinistral or dextral direction. Transform faults are closely related to transcurrent faults. Both types of faults are strike-slip or side-to-side in movement, (see diagrams to the right) however transform faults end at the junction of another plate boundary or fault type, while transcurrent faults die out without a junction.
Since the plates on either side of a transform boundary are merely sliding past each other and not tearing or crunching each other, transform boundaries lack the spectacular features found at convergent and divergent boundaries. 
Transform fault. 508 pages on this wiki. A transform fault or transform boundary, also known as conservative plate boundary since these faults neither create nor destroy lithosphere, is a type of fault whose relative motion is predominantly horizontal in either sinistral or dextral direction.
The most famous example of a transform boundary is the San Andreas Fault in California. The San Andreas Fault is the edges of the Pacific Plate and the North American Plate. The fault line runs through the Gulf of California and through the western part of California before running back under the ocean. Convergent boundaries form strong earthquakes, as well as volcanic mountains or islands, when the sinking oceanic plate melts. The third type is transform boundaries, or a boundary where plates slide past each other, forming strong earthquakes. All of this crashing, banging, and erupting are one reason why the surface of the earth has such a variety of landforms and features. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member
Introduction. A transform boundary is a fault zone where two plates slide past each other horizontally. Most transform faults are found in the ocean where they offset spreading ridges creating a zigzag pattern between the plates. Some transform faults occur on land. San Andreas Fault. The San Andreas Fault is the transform boundary between the North American Plate and the Pacific Plate. During the 1906 San Francisco earthquake the northern section of the San Andreas Fault slipped northward along the fault from San Juan Bautista to Cape Mendocino, a total of 296 miles (477km).
Transform Plate Boundaries are locations where two plates slide past one another. The fracture zone that forms a transform plate boundary is known as a transform fault. Most transform faults are found in the ocean basin and connect offsets in the mid-ocean ridges. A smaller number connect mid-ocean ridges and subduction zones.
Transform Boundaries The final type of boundary is one where the two plates slide against each other in a sideways motion. These boundaries between plates is referred to as transform boundaries. As two plates slide past one another, in a transform boundary, neither plate is added to at the boundary, nor destroyed. The result of two massive plates pushing against one another is that massive amounts of energy build up.