Confidence votes 86. Sensation: something that is felt or sensed. well if you mean what does sensation mean then it is a physical feeling or perception resulting from something that happens to or comes into contact with the body. if that is not what you mean then i apologise but do not know. hope this was helpful :P. Each type of the principal type of sensation that we experience pain, touch, sight ,sound and so forth is called modalities of sensation. We experience these different modali … ties of sensation, while nerve fibers transmit only impulses.
Definition of Sensation. Sensation is the process that allows our brains to take in information via our five senses, which can then be experienced and interpreted by the brain. Sensation occurs thanks to our five sensory systems: vision, hearing, taste, smell and touch. In this lesson, you will learn about the concept of sensation and the five distinct subsystems that comprise sensation. Following the lesson, you will have the opportunity to test you knowledge with a short quiz.
Lesson Summary. Sensation is the process of gathering environmental information and transmitting that information to the brain. Five sensory systems exist which allow us to collect environmental information. In this lesson, you will learn about the concept of sensation and the five distinct subsystems that comprise sensation. Following the lesson, you will have the opportunity to test you knowledge with a short quiz.
Full Definition of SENSATION. 1. a: a mental process (as seeing, hearing, or smelling) resulting from the immediate external stimulation of a sense organ often as distinguished from a conscious awareness of the sensory process — compare perception b: awareness (as of heat or pain) due to stimulation of a sense organ. Medical Definition of SENSATION. 1. a: a mental process (as seeing, hearing, or smelling) due to immediate bodily stimulation often as distinguished from awareness of the process—
Sensation. Sensation is the process by which our senses gather information and send it to the brain. A large amount of information is being sensed at any one time such as room temperature, brightness of the lights, someone talking, a distant train, or the smell of perfume.
In psychology, sensation and perception are stages of processing of the senses in human and animal systems, such as vision, auditory, vestibular, and pain senses. Included in this topic is the study of illusions such as motion aftereffect, color constancy, auditory illusions, and depth perception. 
Perception (from the Latin perceptio, percipio) is the organization, identification, and interpretation of sensory information in order to represent and understand the environment. All perception involves signals in the nervous system, which in turn result from physical or chemical stimulation of the sense organs. 
1) Sensation occurs: a) sensory organs absorb energy from a physical stimulus in the environment. b) sensory receptors convert this energy into neural impulses and send them to the brain. 2) Perception follows: a) the brain organizes the information and translates it into something meaningful. 
Although intimately related, sensation and perception play two complimentary but different roles in how we interpret our world. Sensation refers to the process of sensing our environment through touch, taste, sight, sound, and smell. This information is sent to our brains in raw form where perception comes into play. Perception is the way we interpret these sensations and therefore make sense of everything around us.
The term Sensation has to be understood as the process of using our sensory organs. Vision, hearing, smell, taste and touch are the main sensory organs that we use. In psychology, this is considered as one of the basic processes of human beings to make sense of the world around them. Now let us look at the term sensation in the general usage. It is interesting to note that the word ‘sensation’ has its adjectival form in the word ‘sensational’, whereas the word ‘perception’ has its adjectival form in the word ‘perceptive’. Observe the two sentences: 1.