Motor (efferent) division of PNS carries motor responses from the central nervous system to muscles, glands, and other organs. Response by the nervous system is accomplished by motor control. Neurons send impulses to the spinal chord and dendrites carry the message to the cell body the axons then sends them away. The motor neurons carry impulses from the central nervous system to the muscles. These impulses may be generated autonomically (instinctively) or through voluntary control by … the brain.
Sensory neurons receive impulses and carry them from the sense organs to the spinal cord or brain. Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and interpret the impulse. Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. 1  Draw and label the structure of a typical nerve cell. The Neuron. The neuron, a nerve cell, is the functional unit of the nervous system that carries the impulse (the message) to the appropriate part of the nervous system or interprets the impulse and allows a response. There are three types of neurons and each has different functions.
Neurons receive signals from either the external or internal environment, and transmit them in the form of electrical impulses to other neurons, muscles or glands. There are three types of neurons: sensory neurons, motor neurons, and interneurons. (See figure in text.). 
Types of Neurons. Neurons that receive stimuli from the outside environment and transmit them toward the brain are called afferent or sensory neurons. Those that carry impulses in the opposite direction, away from the brain and other nerve centers to muscles, are called efferent neurons, motor neurons, or motoneurons. Another type, the interneuron, found in the brain and spinal cord, conducts impulses from afferent to efferent neurons. Synapses. Others transmit efferent motor nerve impulses to a muscle (e.g. those carrying information from the Edinger-Westphal nucleus to the sphincter pupillae and ciliary muscles). These are called motor neurons. Other neurons carry nerve impulses from one neuron to another (internuncial neurons). Note: also spelt neurone.
motor neurons Neurons that conveynerve impulses from the central nervoussystem to muscles and glands. glands Body organs or structures thatproduce secretions. hormones Secretions from endocrineglands that help regulate bodilyprocesses. interneurons Nerve cells within thecentral nervous system that process in-formation. 
Somatic efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses from the spinal cord to skeletal muscles. These neurons are multipolar neurons, with cell bodies located in the gray matter of the spinal cord. Somatic efferent neurons leave the spinal cord through the ventral root of spinal nerves. Visceral afferent neurons are unipolar neurons that enter the spinal cord through the dorsal root & their cell bodies are located in the dorsal root ganglia. Visceral efferent neurons are motor neurons that conduct impulses to smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, & glands.
3) motor neurons —carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. The Response Mechanism. When a stimulus is received by a sensory neuron, the impulse (or message) is carried through fibrous extensions called dendrites to the cell body. The Neuron. The neuron, a nerve cell, is the functional unit of the nervous system that carries the impulse (the message) to the appropriate part of the nervous system or interprets the impulse and allows a response. There are three types of neurons and each has different functions.
Those that carry impulses in the opposite direction, away from the brain and other nerve centers to muscles, are called efferent neurons, motor neurons, or motoneurons. Another type, the interneuron, found in the brain and spinal cord, conducts impulses from afferent to efferent neurons. Motor neurons transmit nerve impulses from the brain and the spinal cord to the muscles and the glandular tissue. Multipolar neurons, bipolar neurons, and unipolar neurons are classified according to the number of processes they extend to the different kinds of neurons.
Neurons • Neurons –cells that transmit nerve impulses•3 Types of Neurons –Sensory neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain–Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles and glands–Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and carry impulses between them. 