Statutory Representation. Statutory representation is the legal requirement that a business entity being formed or doing business within a statea€™stateâ s jurisdiction maintains a registered agent to facilitate the delivery of legal. documents
Tweet. A statutory audit is an audit that is required by a government agency and does not pertain to all businesses in the UK. For example, statutory audits are required specifically by institutions, such as banks, brokerage companies and insurance companies in the UK. Statutory audits in particular will look at specific aspects of a company’s financials, to make sure that they meet government guidelines or UK GAAP code or requirements by the specific regulatory authority, such as the UK Financial Services Authority for finance-related companies.
Report Abuse. A statutory corporation is a corporation created by statute. The legislators pass a piece of law to create a corporation. On the other hand, other companies are corporations created under the provisions of Companies Act. Follow the procedures provided by the Companies Act and a corporation is created. A Statutory corporation is not necessary government owned. A statutory corporation is not necessary a state-own-enterprise which will pay dividend, and in most of the time, it is a charity, a church. For example, the Scout Association of Hong Kong is a statutory corporation created under Scout Association of Hong Kong Chapter 1005.
Points: 10. Meaning: Statutory Corporation is an autonomous form of Public sector. It is formed by passing a Special Act either at the Legislature Assembly or at the Parliament. The Statue clearly defines the rules and regulations, plans & policies, rights & powers, limits & scope for working of the corporation. 
Best Answer: (m) A Statutory Corporation is a corporation created by statute. Statutory corporations are often government owned or part owned businesses and may return dividends to Government. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Statutory_C... A statutory corporation is not necessary a state-own-enterprise which will pay dividend, and in most of the time, it is a charity, a church. For example, the Scout Association of Hong Kong is a statutory corporation created under Scout Association of Hong Kong Chapter 1005.
Special note should be made of a particular type of corporation--the statutory close corporation. In a strict sense, this is not a separate business form. It is, instead, a corporation that is regulated by a special state law. A regular corporation also can be converted to a statutory close corporation in states that allow this type of corporation. The close corporations statutes relax many of the formalities normally applicable to a
Making the world better, one answer at a time. statutory co is a company which is passed by a special act by central or state legislature.like-indian railway,icai etc. This co dont required to have its MOA because the rules $ regulation are alredy written in such Act. the audit of such co is conducted by CAG. 
As statutory corporations, their regulatory and business conditions may be significantly different from private-sector companies. An example of this in Australia is the regulatory conditions placed on the national communications company Telstra. Statutory corporation are public enterprises brought into existence by a Special Act of the Parliament. The Act defines its powers and functions, rules and regulations governing its employees and its relationship with government departments.
Every company is required to keep the following statutory registers, and to provide access to them. They must be kept at the company's registered office or (register of members and register of directors' interests only) at some other place notified to Companies House. The statutory registers are important. Not only is it a requirement of the Companies Act that they should be kept, and kept up to date, but the register of members, in particular, is the primary authority as to who are members of the company and how many shares they hold. Register of members (sec113 - sec128).