You just need a good hair conditioner, sink, wide toothed comb and warm water! I like to call this untangle method a “Whole Hair Reboot”. I prefer a hair conditioner that has a pump because I’ll be pumping out massive amounts of hair conditioner onto the hair snarls. 1. Fill your sink with warm water. Not hot, not cold, warm because you’ll need to be comfortable! 2. Dunk your whole scalp into the warm water. Get all your hair into the sink
How To Detangle Dry Matted Hair Without Conditioner. Dry hair detanglers like the Take Down Remover Cream work fast at softening the hair so if your hair is very dry it will be moisturized before you start to untangle the knots. 1 Next, add more of Take Down Remover/Detangler Cream to your hair just as you normally would a conditioner and make sure that your hair is COMPLETELY saturated. 2  Take a (metal tip) rat tail comb and pick apart the knots and simultaneously use your fingers to untangle.
7. Rinse your hair. Rinse out any hair treatments completely once your hair is untangled. If you have afro-textured hair, and the severe mats have separated enough to allow you to part your hair, clip each section of hair to keep them separate, and rinse one at a time. Comb the ends first. Always comb tangled hair starting near the ends. Place the comb a few inches (several centimeters) from the end of the tangled hair, and brush downward. Repeat until that section of hair is free of tangles, then move the comb slightly higher up.
This video is for those trying to remove tough buildup, lint, knots, tangles and separate matted hair during braid removal. This usually occurs around the perimeter of your hair but in my case the dread-locked hair was on every single braid!!!! But with research and patience I saved my hair, with little to no breakage. 
Don't use a brush to detangle your hair-only use it to distribute the oils in your hair and make it shiny. If your hair is curly it doesn't really need brushed at all. Take good care of your hair to prevent split ends, because they create tangles. lickitysplit · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Take a veeeery small section of your hair, don't worry if you can't part it, but take that small section and try to untangle with your fingers first. That's what you should do when you're having trouble with the comb, try with your fingers.
5. Untangle the easiest knots with your fingers. Once the hair treatment has had time to take effect, attempt to gently pull apart the tangled sections of your hair. Small knots or loose mats can sometimes be pulled into smaller, separate tangles from the root side of the knot, nearer to your scalp. Comb the ends first. Always comb tangled hair starting near the ends. Place the comb a few inches (several centimeters) from the end of the tangled hair, and brush downward. Repeat until that section of hair is free of tangles, then move the comb slightly higher up.
1 DO NOT wet the hair, this will only cause MORE tangles and breakage. 2  First, SOAK Take Down Remover/Detangler Cream on the hair and massage deeply. 3  Next, add more of Take Down Remover/Detangler Cream to your hair just as you normally would a conditioner and make sure that your hair is COMPLETELY saturated. 1 Next, add more of Take Down Remover/Detangler Cream to your hair just as you normally would a conditioner and make sure that your hair is COMPLETELY saturated. 2  Take a (metal tip) rat tail comb and pick apart the knots and simultaneously use your fingers to untangle.