The packaged beef take home weight is approximately 40 percent of the animal’s live weight, or 75 percent of the HCW. Table 1 shows the approximate retail yields from carcasses of different yield grades. Table 2 illustrates the. approximate carcass weights and take home package weight by live animal weight. roasts vs. ground beef; use of flank steaks and brisket vs ground beef; etc.) will affect both the amount of. beef product (retail yield) and type of cuts placed into packages. A general rule of thumb for carcass beef is 25% bone and trim loss, 25% steaks, 25% roasts, and 25% ground beef. The type of cattle, as well as cutting and trimming procedures, can have a dramatic affect on retail yield. When fat and bone are removed, the weight of take home product from a carcass decreases
For yields, beef trimmings, bone, and fat trimmings comprise a much higher percentage of the weight of a beef carcass than one may think. For value, after trimmings, the middle meats — tenderloin, strip loin, ribeye, and top sirloin butt — drive a large portion of the value. 
The percentages of closely-trimmed, mostly boneless cuts remaining from dressed weight can be estimated: Beef 50% - 65% Veal 65% - 75% Pork 60% - 75% Lamb 45% - 60% is the cutting of the dressed or carcass meat into ready-to-cook portions. This is 60% - 75% of the dressed weight. Bulk Meat Carcass Percentages and Cuts (Percentages shown are based on dressed (slaughtered) weight.) To estimate how many pounds of each section you'll get, multiply the stated percentage times the total dressed weight. Example: Beef round at 23% x 650 lbs.
An average beef animal weighs about 1200 (± 250) pounds and has a hanging hot carcass weight (HCW) of about 750 (± 200) pounds. In general, freezer beef is sold using HCW as the basis. Hot carcass weight represents about 63 (± 2) percent of live weight (dressing percent) and is affected by the length of time an animal is away from feed and water, amount of muscling, distance transported, and amount of finish. roasts vs. ground beef; use of flank steaks and brisket vs ground beef; etc.) will affect both the amount of. beef product (retail yield) and type of cuts placed into packages. A general rule of thumb for carcass beef is 25% bone and trim loss, 25% steaks, 25% roasts, and 25% ground beef. The type of cattle, as well as cutting and trimming procedures, can have a dramatic affect on retail yield. When fat and bone are removed, the weight of take home product from a carcass decreases
This is the estimation of the final finished weight on our beef. Also called on the hoof. 2. HANGING WEIGHT: 620 pounds (lighter grp) & 750 pounds (heavier grp.). a. hanging weight = live weight X 60%. So 1033.33 lbs. X 60% = 620 lbs. hanging weight and 1250lbs. 
Beef Carcass Breakdown. With an average market (live or on hoof) weight of 1,150 lbs and the average yield of 62.2%, the typical steer will produce a 715 lb. (dressed weight) carcass. The dressed beef (or carcass) will yield approximately 569 lbs. (further details below) of red meat and trim (take home meat-which includes the average weight of 27 lbs of variety meat: liver, heart, tongue, tripe, sweetbreads and brains) and 146 lbs of fat, bone and loss. This is roughly a yield of 80% from the dressed or hanging weight-this is for a VERY LEAN Beef. A High Quality, USDA Choice Beef will yield approximately 70% of the Hanging or Dressed Weight. The yield on the take home meat weight from the live weight of the (VERY LEAN) steer is approximately 50%. Click here to see the complete breakdown on the weight, percentage and types of cuts available on a VERY LEAN Beef
If the animal was fat fromthe start, more fat will need to be trimmed away, thus reducing total pounds of meat returned.For bone-in pork, expect no more than 75-80% of the carcass weight back as meat. For boneless, 65-70%.For bone-in beef, expect no more than 65-70% of the carcass weight back as meat. For boneless, 55-60%.Most lamb cuts are bone-in. Expect no more than 70-75% of carcass weight back as meat. Pork Beef Lamb For more reading, see: D.M. Wulf, (1999).
Hot carcass weight (HCW) is the hot or unchilled weight of a beef carcass after harvest and removal of the hide, head, gastrointestinal tract, and internal organs. It is sometimes reported as carcass weight. Carcass weight is the most important factor in determining carcass value when cattle are sold. The National Beef Quality Audit outlined a range of 650 to 850 pounds as an industry target for carcass weight. Carcass size is genetically influenced and can be changed with an emphasis on frame size and growth rate in breeding decisions.