The Colosseum or Coliseum (/kɒləˈsiːəm/ kol-ə-SEE-əm), also known as the Flavian Amphitheatre (Latin: Amphitheatrum Flavium; Italian: Anfiteatro Flavio [amfiteˈaːtro ˈflaːvjo] or Colosseo [kolosˈsɛːo]), is an oval amphitheatre in the centre of the city of Rome, Italy. Construction of the Colosseum began under the rule of Vespasian in around 70–72 AD (73-75 AD according to some sources) The Colosseum had been completed up to the third story by the time of Vespasian's death in 79. The top level was finished by his son, Titus, in 80, and the inaugural games where held in A.D. 80 or 81.
The Colosseum or Flavian Amphitheatre is a large ellipsoid arena built in the first century CE under the Roman emperors of the Flavian dynasty: Vespasian (69-79 CE), Titus (79-81 CE) and Domitian (81-96 AD). 
The Colosseum, originally known as the Flavian Amphitheatre, is a large amphitheatre in the city of Rome. The construction of the Colosseum started around 70—72 AD and was finished in 80 AD. Emperor Vespasian started the works, and Emperor Titus completed them. It is now a ruin because of earthquakes. The Colosseum is a symbol of the Roman Empire. It is one of Rome's most popular tourist attractions. On Good Fridays, the Pope leads a torch lit Way of the Cross procession around the various levels of the amphitheatre.
To them it was known as the Amphitheatrum Flavium, which is Latin for Flavian Amphitheater. They also gave it the nickname Colosseum because of the colossal statue of th … e emperor Nero which stood in the square before it. The Colosseum was a huge building that held gladiator fights and lots of entertainment for the king and the people of Rome.Now days people say they hold concerts and dif … ferant things for people.I hope this all helped its all true.
The Colosseum was called the Flavian amphitheatre because it was the vision of Emperor Vespasian, first Emperor of the Flavian dynasty. It was the first stadium that was cover … ed. They could pull a huge tent on top with a big hole in the middle for the light. To them it was known as the Amphitheatrum Flavium, which is Latin for Flavian Amphitheater. They also gave it the nickname Colosseum because of the colossal statue of th … e emperor Nero which stood in the square before it. But Flavian Amphitheater is it's proper name. 11 people found this useful.
The Colosseum (or Flavian amphitheatre the Romans called after the Flavian dynasty which Vespasian and Titus belonged to) was completed by Titus in 80 a year after Vespasian's died. Titus brother and successor and Domitian added to the finished structure. To them it was known as the Amphitheatrum Flavium, which is Latin for Flavian Amphitheater. They also gave it the nickname Colosseum because of the colossal statue of th … e emperor Nero which stood in the square before it. But Flavian Amphitheater is it's proper name. 11 people found this useful.
The Colosseum is an iconic symbol of Rome, both past and present, is a UNESCO world heritage site, and one of the New 7 Wonders of the World. Although centuries old and famous world-wide, most people take for granted that it is called the Colosseum, or Colosseo in Italian, but that wasn't always the case. So: the Colosseum is a coliseum. Of course, any other spelling you see-colisseum, colloseum, collosseum, colisium, collesium, colusium, and the list goes on and on-is just plain wrong. But no worries, once you come to Rome and see it in person, you will never mispell it again!
It is the biggest amphitheatre built by the Roman Empire. The Colosseum was first called the Flavian Amphitheatre or in Latin, the Amphitheatrum Flavium. This was after Vespasian and Titus who had the family name of Flavius. It is now a ruin because of earthquakes. The Colosseum is a symbol of the Roman Empire. It is one of Rome's most popular tourist attractions. On Good Fridays, the Pope leads a torch lit Way of the Cross procession around the various levels of the amphitheatre.
Colosseum is a nickname for the Flavian amphitheater. It got that nickname because of a colossal statue of the emperor Nero which stood in the plaza in front of the amphitheater. The Colosseum was a huge building that held gladiator fights and lots of entertainment for the king and the people of Rome.Now days people say they hold concerts and dif … ferant things for people.I hope this all helped its all true.