Definition. Cyanotic heart disease refers to a group of many different heart defects that are present at birth (congenital) that result in a low blood oxygen level. Fainting (syncope) and chest pain may occur. Other symptoms depend on the type of cyanotic heart disease, and may include: 1  Feeding problems or reduced appetite, leading to poor growth. 2  Grayish skin. 3  Puffy eyes or face. 4  Tiredness all the time.
Cyanotic. Marked by bluish discoloration of the skin due to a lack of oxygen in the blood. It is one of the types of congenital heart disease. Mentioned in: Congenital Heart Disease. 
A common symptom is a bluish tint to the skin, called cyanosis. Several defects can cause this type of heart disease, including: 1  issues with the heart valves (the flaps in the heart that make sure the blood flows through in the right direction). 2  an interruption in the aorta (the largest artery in the body). Outlook for Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease. The outlook for cyanotic congenital heart disease is varies based on the severity of the underlying defects present in the child. In mild cases, the child may be able to live a normal lifestyle with minimal medications or other treatments.
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Congenital heart disease (congenital heart defect) is an abnormality in your heart's structure that you're born with. Although congenital heart disease is often considered a childhood condition, advances in surgical treatment mean most babies who once died of congenital heart disease survive well into adulthood. 
The classic symptom of cyanotic congenital heart disease is cyanosis, the blue coloring of the skin, which occurs particularly in the lips, toes, and fingers. Another common symptom is difficulty breathing, especially after physical activity. Outlook for Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease. The outlook for cyanotic congenital heart disease is varies based on the severity of the underlying defects present in the child. In mild cases, the child may be able to live a normal lifestyle with minimal medications or other treatments.
Defects That Cause Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease. There are many physical defects in the heart that can cause cyanotic congenital heart disease. Some infants may be born with several defects. A few of the defects that are common causes of cyanotic congenital heart disease include: Outlook for Cyanotic Congenital Heart Disease. The outlook for cyanotic congenital heart disease is varies based on the severity of the underlying defects present in the child. In mild cases, the child may be able to live a normal lifestyle with minimal medications or other treatments.
Cyanotic heart disease. Cyanotic heart disease refers to a group of many different heart defects that are present at birth (congenital) that result in a low blood oxygen level. Fainting (syncope) and chest pain may occur. Other symptoms depend on the type of cyanotic heart disease, and may include: 1  Feeding problems or reduced appetite, leading to poor growth. 2  Grayish skin. 3  Puffy eyes or face. 4  Tiredness all the time.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cyanotic heart defect is a group-type of congenital heart defect (CHD) that occurs due to deoxygenated blood bypassing the lungs and entering the systemic circulation or a mixture of oxygenated and unoxygenated blood entering the systemic circulation. 
It is the most common type of birth defect. Congenital heart disease causes more deaths in the first year of life than any other birth defects. Congenital heart disease is often divided into two types: cyanotic (blue skin color caused by a lack of oxygen) and non-cyanotic. The following lists cover the most common congenital heart diseases: Cyanotic: 1  Ebstein's anomaly. 2  Hypoplastic left heart.
Congenital heart disease: A malformation of the heart, aorta, or other large blood vessels that is the most frequent form of major birth defect in newborns. Abbreviated CHD. 