CLAY TABLETS Writing was invented about 5500 years ago by Sumerians, a people devoted to agriculture who lived in ancient Mesopotamia. As a medium for their texts, Sumerians used clay tablets. Clay is basically mud and in their alluvial plains they had plenty of it. 
Sumerian was spoken in Sumer in southern Mesopotamia (part of modern Iraq) from perhaps the 4th millennium BC until about 2,000 BC, when it was replaced by Akkadian as a spoken language, though continued to be used in writing for religious, artistic and scholarly purposes until about the 1st century AD. Sumerian cuneiform. Sumerian cuneiform is the earliest known writing system. Its origins can be traced back to about 8,000 BC and it developed from the pictographs and other symbols used to represent trade goods and livestock on clay tablets.
Sargon the Great provided the world with its first example of a military dictatorship. Sumerian civilization was among the oldest urban civilizations on the planet. In Sumer the first attempts at writing emerged to produce ancient cuneiform, a form of administrative language written as wedged strokes on clay tablets. And in ancient Sumer the first detailed records, written or carved in stone, of military battles appeared. 
CUNEIFORM. The ancient Sumerians created the world's first writing system known as cuneiform. The term cuneiform means wedge-shaped.. Sumerian writing is wedge-shaped because of the the type of instrument that was used to create it. STYLUS. The ancient Sumerians used a stylus to write. A stylus is a wedge-shaped instrument made out of reed.
It took the Sumerian scribes many hundreds of years to develop their system of writing. Their initial picture writings were clumsy and confusing. Soon their signs began to stand for words rather than objects. Pictures changed into wedge-shaped marks, which formed sentences when placed in a series, i.e. cuneiform. In addition to the similar biblical accounts of God s creation, the ancient Sumerians detailed writings contain The Paradise Myth, The Gardener s Mortal Sin, and Lord of Eridu s estrangement of one language (Tower of Babel).
Ancient Sumerians A Mythical Civilization. As advanced as the Ancient Sumerians were in the areas of mathematics and communication, they lacked understanding of the forces of nature, causes for diseases, or famine. The Sumerians began to worship many of the forces of nature. In addition to the similar biblical accounts of God s creation, the ancient Sumerians detailed writings contain The Paradise Myth, The Gardener s Mortal Sin, and Lord of Eridu s estrangement of one language (Tower of Babel).
Writing. Sumerian writing is the oldest full-fledged writing that archaeologists have discovered. The Ubaidians may have introduced the Sumerians to the rudiments of writing and numerical calculation, which the Sumerians used for calculating and to keep records of supplies and goods exchanged. The Sumerians wrote poetically, describing events as the work of their gods, and they wrote to please their gods. The Sumerians wrote by pressing picture representations into wet clay with a pen, and they dried the clay to form tablets.
Cuneiform writing spread to a good part of the ancient Middle East and was used by many different peoples such as the Sumerians, Akkadians, Babylonians and Assyrians. Most of these peoples spoke Semitic languages, yet the cuneiform system was used also by people who spoke Indo-European languages, such as the Hittites. 
Cuneiform is a system of writing first developed by the ancient Sumerians of Mesopotamia c. 3500-3000 BCE. It is considered the most significant among the many cultural contributions of the Sumerians and the greatest among those of the Sumerian city of Uruk which advanced the writing of cuneiform c. 3200 BCE. The best example of this is given by the historian Paul Kriwaczek who notes that, in the time of proto-cuneiform: All that had been devised thus far was a technique for noting down things, items and objects, not a writing system.