Minor swelling in the leg or a reddened, tender vein may cause discomfort. This does not mean that it is safe to ignore the condition. If it is not treated, deep vein thrombosis can lead to a pulmonary embolism, meaning you have a blood clot in your lungs. A pulmonary embolism can be fatal.
Although his condition usually occurs in your legs, it is possible to develop thrombophlebitis in other parts of your body. Blood clots can cause swelling in the veins of your neck or arms, but this is rare. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which you develop a blood clot in a vein deep in your body. This is one of the two types of thrombophlebitis.
Typically a blood clot that is formed in the lower extremities (also known as a deep vein thrombosis, or DVT) presents with enlargement/swelling of only one leg. It is much more common to have a DVT affecting one leg rather than both at the same time, though it is not impossible.
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a blood clot (thrombus) in a deep vein, usually in the legs. Clots can form in superficial veins and in deep veins. Blood clots with inflammation in superficial veins (called superficial thrombophlebitis or phlebitis) rarely cause serious problems.
Blood clots may form inside small veins near the surface of your skin (superficial phlebitis), resulting in localized redness, pain and swelling. Superficial phlebitis rarely causes complications and requires minimal treatment.
Don't know what to do about it. Typically a blood clot that is formed in the lower extremities (also known as a deep vein thrombosis, or DVT) presents with enlargement/swelling of only one leg. It is much more common to have a DVT affecting one leg rather than both at the same time, though it is not impossible.
Thrombophlebitis is an inflammation of a vein, usually in your legs, that becomes swollen due to a blood clot. A blood clot is a solid formation of blood cells that stick together. Blood clots can interfere with the normal flow of blood throughout your body.