The term 'robot' was first used to denote fictional automata in a 1921 play R.U.R. by the Czech writer, Karel Čapek. The word 'robot' is of Czech origin. In 1928, one of the first humanoid robots was exhibited at the annual exhibition of the Model Engineers Society in London. McKesson's Robot RX is another healthcare robotics product that helps pharmacies dispense thousands of medications daily with little or no errors. The robot can be ten feet wide and thirty feet long and can hold hundreds of different kinds of medications and thousands of doses.
Plot Edit. In 2035, humanoid robots serve humanity. Humans are protected from the robots by the Three Laws of Robotics. Del Spooner (Smith), a Chicago police detective, distrusts robots after a car crash ended in a robot rescuing him and leaving a preteen girl to die, based on statistical likelihood of survival. 
Robot List Edit. See the category Robot for an alphabetic list of all robots featured on this site. They can also be browsed per Robot type. Note that robots can belong to more than 1 category (except fictional robots, which we keep in their own category).
Exciting time. ”. Mr. Robot is the leader of the hacker group called fsociety, and the first member of the group to meet Elliot. His real name, or even his hacker name is unknown, although he is revealed to be Elliot and Darlene's father; Mr. Robot is the nickname Elliot gives him. He is played by Christian Slater
A robot is a mechanical or virtual artificial agent, usually an electro-mechanical machine that is guided by a computer program or electronic circuitry. McKesson's Robot RX is another healthcare robotics product that helps pharmacies dispense thousands of medications daily with little or no errors. The robot can be ten feet wide and thirty feet long and can hold hundreds of different kinds of medications and thousands of doses.
Sonny is a fictional character in the film I, Robot (2004). He is portrayed by Alan Tudyk. Sonny is a modified NS-5 robot. He was created by Alfred Lanning and becomes an ally of Susan Calvin and Del Spooner after the death of his creator. 
Notes. 1  The Robot's face and helmet are available on the LEGO Universe version of LEGO Digital Designer. 2  His robotic arm is the same design as the Space Villain from Series 3. 3  There are two other robots: one in Series 6, the Clockwork Robot, and the other robot in Series 8, the Evil Robot. 1 His robotic arm is the same design as the Space Villain from Series 3. 2  There are two other robots: one in Series 6, the Clockwork Robot, and the other robot in Series 8, the Evil Robot. 3  An extra robotic arm is included in the set.
The word 'robot' was first used to denote a fictional humanoid in a 1921 play R.U.R. by the Czech writer, Karel Čapek. Electronics evolved into the driving force of development with the advent of the first electronic autonomous robots created by William Grey Walter in Bristol, England in 1948. McKesson's Robot RX is another healthcare robotics product that helps pharmacies dispense thousands of medications daily with little or no errors. The robot can be ten feet wide and thirty feet long and can hold hundreds of different kinds of medications and thousands of doses.
Today, robotics is a rapidly growing field, as technological advances continue; researching, designing, and building new robots serve various practical purposes, whether domestically, commercially, or militarily. Many robots do jobs that are hazardous to people such as defusing bombs, mines and exploring shipwrecks. 