A nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test determines how quickly electrical signals move through a particular peripheral nerve. It is also sometimes known as a nerve conduction study and is used in the diagnosis of nerve damage or nerve dysfunction. 
For unmyelinated nerves there is a relationship between axon diameter and conduction velocity. Larger diameter nerves conduct faster. For myelinated nerves the a larger … diameter nerve will conduct faster between the nodes of ranvier where the action potential is propagated. Conduction is said to be saltatory as it jumps from node to node. Factors that affect terminal velocity · Mass An increased mass will increase the terminal velocity and make the falling object reach the ground quicker. · Surface Area If … the surface area of an object is increased then its terminal velocity will decrease.
A nerve conduction study (NCS), also called a nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test--is a measurement of the speed of conduction of an electrical impulse through a nerve. NCS can determine nerve damage and destruction. During the test, the nerve is stimulated, usually with surface electrode patches attached to the skin. The nerve conduction velocity (speed) is then calculated by measuring the distance between electrodes and the time it takes for electrical impulses to travel between electrodes. A related procedure that may be performed is electromyography (EMG).
Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) test--also called a nerve conduction study (NCS)--is a measurement of the speed of conduction of an electrical impulse through a nerve. NCV can determine nerve damage and destruction. During the test, the nerve is stimulated, usually with surface electrode patches attached to the skin. The nerve conduction velocity (speed) is then calculated by measuring the distance between electrodes and the time it takes for electrical impulses to travel between electrodes. A related procedure that may be performed is electromyography (EMG).
Details. Category: Clinical Engineering. A nerve conduction study (NCS) is a test commonly used to evaluate the function, especially the ability of electrical conduction, of the motor and sensory nerves of the human body. Nerve conduction velocity (NCV) is a common measurement made during this test. The nerve conduction velocity test is used to distinguish between true nerve disorders (such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease-also known as hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN)) and conditions where muscles are affected by nerve injury (such as carpal tunnel syndrome).
Conduction velocity in the ulnar nerve was determined in normal people and in patients with peripheral neuropathy. The nerve was stimulated percutaneously by square pulses at the wrist and recorded by surface electrodes above the elbow. Conduction velocities were consistently reduced in a group of patients with neuropathy. The mean velocity was 63.9 m/sec in normal subjects and 45.9 m/sec in patients with nerve lesions. The difference of these means was highly significant (P t test)
Nerve conduction velocity is an important aspect of nerve conduction studies. It is the speed at which an electrochemical impulse propagates down a neural pathway. Conduction velocities are affected by a wide array of factors, including age, sex, and various medical conditions. In general, the conduction velocities of most motor and sensory nerves are positively and linearly associated with body temperature (low temperatures slow nerve conduction velocity and higher temperatures increase conduction velocity).
This is called saltatory conduction. In a myelinated neuron, the conduction velocity is directly proportional to the fiber diameter (D). (iii) Temperature: A decrease in temperature slows down conduction velocity, (iv) Resting membrane potential. Effect of RMP changes on conduction velocity is quite variable. Usually, any change in the RMP in either direction (hyper polarization or depolarization) slows down the conduction velocity. Factors that affect terminal velocity · Mass An increased mass will increase the terminal velocity and make the falling object reach the ground quicker. · Surface Area If … the surface area of an object is increased then its terminal velocity will decrease.
Nerve Conduction Velocity is just one of many measurements commonly made during a nerve conduction study (NCS) . The purpose of these studies is to determine whether nerve damage is present and how severe that damage may be. Nerve conduction studies are performed as follows: In general, the conduction velocities of most motor and sensory nerves are positively and linearly associated with body temperature (low temperatures slow nerve conduction velocity and higher temperatures increase conduction velocity).