Say if your total build cost is $500,000 what percentage of that was to get to weather tight shell.... and by shell I'm including excavation, septic, foundation, rough framing, roofing, siding, windows and doors. Percentage cost of rough shell vs complete build. kind of an oddball question.... but here goes: I'm trying to figure out what is the percentage of the total cost of getting to a weather tight shell vs the total cost of the completed build.
Cost to build house shell. The only way to get accurate costs is to put it out to bid. There are a lot of variables that go into figuring the cost to construct a structure. I highly recommend you hire a GC or architect to assist you in managing the project. It seemed high, but since I have no experience acting as a GC while I build a house, I figured it might be possible. I also know that with the amount of land and style of house we want, there is no way we could afford 350k-400k that it would cost to have someone else do the work.
How much you save will depend on how much you pay to have the shell built and how well you can shop for labor and materials for the rest of the house. Read my page on BYOH called Shell Builders that will answer most of your questions. There is also a video to watch on shell builders on that page. What you need to do 1st is estimate the total cost using the “cost to build calculator” on my Getting Started page. It’s # 5 on the list and is easy and fun to use. 
Building Your Own Home from a Shell Process. Building Your Own Home from a Shell Process: Costs. Many home kit companies can erect your home in a day or two. Some offer kits for as low as $21.00 per square foot, installed on your foundation. Others may run about $45.00 per square foot
Considering that the finished home will cost between $80 and $130 to build on average we can see that the expense of building a shell is usually only about 25 or 30 percent of the home’s cost. Woodwork and trim also vary in cost depending on the size and degree of detail. Luxury homes can cost over $800 per square foot, depending on the degree of luxury involved. The cost per square foot varies also by the number of bathrooms, and the ratio of bathroom and kitchen space to the rest of the home.
Overall size of the home heavily impacts the cost of the home, and smaller houses also save on utilities. It makes sense to build a smaller home for savings both now and in the future, however be aware that simply building a home with fewer bedrooms, will not save you exactly $80 per square foot you cut out. Woodwork and trim also vary in cost depending on the size and degree of detail. Luxury homes can cost over $800 per square foot, depending on the degree of luxury involved. The cost per square foot varies also by the number of bathrooms, and the ratio of bathroom and kitchen space to the rest of the home.
The difference between insulated concrete panels and stick built construction is about a dollar per square foot, and sometimes less. The entire cost of building a home from foundation to shell is about $25 per square foot, with a range of between $21 and $40 per square foot. Woodwork and trim also vary in cost depending on the size and degree of detail. Luxury homes can cost over $800 per square foot, depending on the degree of luxury involved. The cost per square foot varies also by the number of bathrooms, and the ratio of bathroom and kitchen space to the rest of the home.
I'm trying to determine a rough estimate on what it would cost to build. I would do the majority of the finish work myself, but would want the shell (foundation, walls, sheathing, rough electric and plumbing) done by the pros. It seemed high, but since I have no experience acting as a GC while I build a house, I figured it might be possible. I also know that with the amount of land and style of house we want, there is no way we could afford 350k-400k that it would cost to have someone else do the work.
The fact is that your stick built home shell can cost about $25 per square foot. Remember we aren’t including the foundation, or anything finished inside, not the plumbing and not the electrical either. Typically, when building a 2000 square foot home, the materials for stick building would be about $51,000. The labor would additional. With the cheapest kits you are paying about $30,000 to $40,000 including labor for the shell, and the cheapest kits may not include insulation, while other kits do. Building Your Own Home from a Shell Process: Costs. Many home kit companies can erect your home in a day or two. Some offer kits for as low as $21.00 per square foot, installed on your foundation. Others may run about $45.00 per square foot