Best Answer: 30 days I love pigeons, I have hundreds of them. First egg hatches after 30 days then the second egg follows next day. When both chicks comes out, the first one gets more feed from the parents as he is big and he reaches first. The incubation period for common pigeons is 17 to 19 days. The female sits on the egg from late afternoon through the night until about 10AM. The male then takes over and does the day shift. Once the eggs hatch, both parents feed the young squabs.
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. roughly 21 days to hatch after 14 days hold egg up and if its see throung your egg will not hatch u have a dud if its filled aka a dark no see through color then u might … have a sucsess   good luck !! 3 people found this useful.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It takes normally 18 days from the last egg laid before they hatch,then a further 3-4 weeks before they fly the nest. So they could be getting near their hatch date. We&#39;ve noticed her sitting on those eggs for last 15 days, not sure if she&#39;s been there before that. And once thery&#39;re born, how long do they have to live in the nest before they can... Source(s): long pigeon egg hatch: https://biturl.im/YefsE.
Posts: 4,102. Will hatch in 18 days if fertile. You have 3 more days. It will take another 4 weeks for the babies to grow and get wean. The parent might still feed the babies for another 1-2 weeks. They are barely flying at 4 weeks old (short takeoff). They should be able to fly in 6-8 weeks. Location: SE Coast Central Florida. Posts: 24,121. They take 18 days to hatch usually, but the temperature can be a factor and eggs may hatch a day or two later if it is cold. They will begin to walk around at 3 weeks and start trying their wings between 3 to 4 weeks of age.
How long does it take a pigeon egg to hatch? The normal incubation period is 17 days regardless of outside  temperature. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if  temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then … it will hatch in almost  two weeks otherwise it will take more time. roughly 21 days to hatch after 14 days hold egg up and if its see throung your egg will not hatch u have a dud if its filled aka a dark no see through color then u might … have a sucsess   good luck !! 3 people found this useful.
Report Abuse. Hi, Pigeons lay two white egg in a clutch, each egg takes 18 days to hatch. The parents will start to incubate the first egg for two days, then she'll lay the second egg. This means the first egg will always hatch two days before the other. 
roughly 21 days to hatch after 14 days hold egg up and if its see throung your egg will not hatch u have a dud if its filled aka a dark no see through color then u might … have a sucsess   good luck !! 3 people found this useful. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others
The normal incubation period is 17 days regardless of outside temperature. It takes all-most two weeks or more, it depends.....if temp is adequate means 35-37 degree then it will hatch in almost two weeks otherwise it will take more time. In case of abandon eggs by their parents himself means that egg is dead otherwise u can also help them in hatch by maintaining the humidity and temperature. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.