Full Definition of QUANGO. : a partly autonomous regulatory agency; especially: one in Britain organized outside the civil service but financed and appointed by the government. See quango defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. : an organization that deals with public matters and is supported by the government but that works independently and has its own legal powers.
A body which has a role in the processes of national government, but is not a government department or part of one, and which accordingly operates to a greater or lesser extent at arm's length from Ministers. For other uses of Quango, see Quango (disambiguation) . The Cabinet Office 2009 report on non-departmental public bodies found that there are 766 NDPBs sponsored by the UK government. The number has been falling: there were 790 in 2008 and 827 in 2007. The number of NDPBs has fallen by over 10% since 1997. Staffing and expenditure of NDPBs have increased.
Mr. Robinson's Quango is a song on the Blur album The Great Escape which satirises the life of a chairman. A February 2015 article at the satiric website  Donegal Dollop  claims that the Irish-language preservation agency Údarás údarás Na gaeltachta has changed its name Údarás udaras údarás na quango quangó in recognition. of the trend The Cabinet Office 2009 report on non-departmental public bodies found that there are 766 NDPBs sponsored by the UK government. The number has been falling: there were 790 in 2008 and 827 in 2007. The number of NDPBs has fallen by over 10% since 1997. Staffing and expenditure of NDPBs have increased.
Quango is an acronym used especially in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Quangos are arms-length bodies funded by government departments but not run by them. They are given power and paid for by government departments. They were invented because most government departments do two rather different jobs. 
• QUANGO (noun). The noun QUANGO has 1 sense: 1. a quasi nongovernmental organization; an organization that is financed by the government yet acts independently of the government. Familiarity information: QUANGO used as a noun is very rare. 
No one, in some cases. About 16% of the axed quangos will be absorbed by central government, with their work handed to civil servants in government departments, 17% will be taken over by other committees, 4% by charities, 2% by local government and 2% by the private sector. Labour presided over a big expansion in the public sector. There is nothing controversial about the concept of quangos-they have been around for a long time. Some of Britain's best-known organisations are classified as quangos, including national galleries and museums, bodies such as the Forestry Commission and the British Council and, according to some groups, the BBC.
The term quasi-autonomous non-governmental organisation was created in 1967 by the Carnegie Foundation 's Alan Pifer in an essay on independence and accountability in public-funded bodies incorporated in the private sector. The Cabinet Office 2009 report on non-departmental public bodies found that there are 766 NDPBs sponsored by the UK government. The number has been falling: there were 790 in 2008 and 827 in 2007. The number of NDPBs has fallen by over 10% since 1997. Staffing and expenditure of NDPBs have increased.