In 1877, with the creation of his phonograph complete, Thomas Edison was known to have recorded his rendition of 'Mary Had a Little Lamb'. In March 2008 a recording by Frenchman Edouard-Leon Scott de Martinville of a woman singing 'Au... Clair De La Lune' was discovered in an archive in Paris by a group of American audio historians. The recording dates back to April 9, 1860 making it the world's first known recorded song. This video has the original sample and the one I edited making it less noisy. ~fiazio. Sponsor: http://www.rentacarpune.com | Car Rental Services in Pune, India
Rolling Stone Magazine felt that Presley's song was the first rock and roll recording. At the time Presley recorded the song, Big Joe Turner's  Shake, Rattle & Roll , later covered by Haley, was already at the top of the Billboard R&B charts. Various recordings dating back to the 1940s and 1950s have been cited as the first rock and roll record. A number of sources have considered the first to be  Rocket 88 , which was recorded in 1951 by Ike Turner and his band, but credited to his saxophonist and the song's vocalist Jackie Brenston.
In 1877, with the creation of his phonograph complete, Thomas Edison tested it. The first song ever recorded was his rendition of 'Mary Had a Little Lamb'. 
Confidence votes 24. There have been many opinions of what the first recording is. Some claim it was Thomas Edison's Mary Had a Little Lamb was the first recording ever (which is the most famous rumor). It was the first recording that could be played back after recorded, but it wasn't the FIRST RECORDING EVER. The first ever EVER produced was actually made on a device called a phonautograph. 
This is the first sound ever recorded, by Édouard-édouard Leon léon Scott, de martinville, in 1860'before edison s wax. Cylinder, experiments ironically the phonautograph was designed only to, record sounds not to play. Them back the 10 seconds ghostly voice is a Woman Singing au clair De. la lune This is the first sound ever recorded, by Édouard-édouard Leon léon Scott, de martinville, in 1860'before edison s wax. cylinder
Please try again later. This is the first sound ever recorded, by Édouard-édouard Leon léon Scott, de martinville, in 1860'before edison s wax. Cylinder, experiments ironically the phonautograph was designed only to, record sounds not to play. them back This is the first sound ever recorded, by Édouard-édouard Leon léon Scott, de martinville, in 1860'before edison s wax. cylinder
What was the first song ever recorded? Mary had a little lamb by thomas Edison Correction: In March 2008 a recording by Frenchman Edouard-Leon Scott de Martinville of a woman singing 'Au Clair De La Lune' was disc … overed in an archive in Paris by a group of American audio historians. 
Earliest Recordings ever made. It was once thought that the earliest recording of the human voice was made by Thomas Edison in 1877, when he recorded Mary had a Little Lamb on his new invention – the phonograph. BUT, a new recording has turned up. The oldest sound ever recorded (also on the phonautograph) is here. It’s one of the early “beta tests” of the unit, and yielded a garbled mess. The oldest recognizable sound ever recorded was that of a tuning fork at 435Hz on the phonautograph. Presented here in various stages of restoration
Most every source credits this song to Paul McCartney-George Harrison, which makes it the only McCartney-Harrison song ever recorded. (Although it's credited to Paul and George, Paul later claimed it was his song, written without George's help. Paul does admit that George played lead guitar on this record. 