Elections provide an important opportunity to advance democratization and encourage political liberalization. 1  For an election to be free and fair, certain civil liberties, such as the freedoms of speech, association and assembly, are required. Supporting Free and Fair Elections. A country cannot be truly democratic until its citizens have the opportunity to choose their representatives through elections that are free and fair. An Afghan woman displays her finger marked with ink after casting her vote at a polling station in Kabul.
Psephology is the study of results and other statistics relating to elections (especially with a view to predicting future results). To elect means to choose or make a decision, and so sometimes other forms of ballot such as referendums are referred to as elections, especially in the United States. The modern election, which consists of public elections of government officials, didn't emerge until the beginning of the 17th century when the idea of representative government took hold in North America and Europe.
Article 21, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 1948. If consent of the governed is the most fundamental concept of democracy, its most essential right is that of citizens to choose their leaders in free, fair, and regular elections. Other rights are fundamental to democracy. The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures..
1 For an election to be free and fair, certain civil liberties, such as the freedoms of speech, association and assembly, are required. 2  Elections can be a primary tool to foster political openings and expand political participation. Supporting Free and Fair Elections. A country cannot be truly democratic until its citizens have the opportunity to choose their representatives through elections that are free and fair. An Afghan woman displays her finger marked with ink after casting her vote at a polling station in Kabul.
A ballot box. An election is a formal decision-making process by which a population chooses an individual to hold public office. Elections have been the usual mechanism by which modern representative democracy has operated since the 17th century. Elections may fill offices in the legislature, sometimes in the executive and judiciary, and for regional and local government. The modern election, which consists of public elections of government officials, didn't emerge until the beginning of the 17th century when the idea of representative government took hold in North America and Europe.
3. election-the status or fact of being elected; they celebrated his election. status, position-the relative position or standing of things or especially persons in a society; he had the status of a minor; the novel attained the status of a classic; atheists do not enjoy a favorable position in American life. general election-a national or state election; candidates are chosen in all constituencies. primary, primary election-a preliminary election where delegates or nominees are chosen.
election-a vote to select the winner of a position or political office; the results of the election will be announced tonight. reelection-election again; he did not run for reelection. general election-a national or state election; candidates are chosen in all constituencies. primary, primary election-a preliminary election where delegates or nominees are chosen.
I want to begin with an overview of what democracy is. We can think of democracy as a system of government with four key elements: 1  A political system for choosing and replacing the government through free and fair elections. This is why it takes a lot of time to organize a good, democratic election. Any country can hold an election, but for an election to be free and fair requires a lot of organization, preparation, and training of political parties, electoral officials, and civil society organizations who monitor the process. II.
And provisions are made by law, in several states, to prevent the interference or appearance of the military on the election ground. 4. One of the cardinal principles on the subject of elections is, that the person who receives a majority or plurality of votes is the person elected. Generally a plurality of the votes of the electors present is sufficient; but in some states a majority of all the votes is required. Each elector has one vote.