How to schedule a Genius Bar appointment online from your Mac. While there's no Apple Store app for the Mac, there's still a way to get your Genius Bar appointment booked via Apple.com. 1  Go to the following webpage on your Mac: Apple Genius Bar. 2  Click the link that says Make a Genius Bar reservation. 1 Click the link that says Make a Genius Bar reservation. 2  Select your state in the drop down menu and then choose a store. 3  Make sure Genius Bar is selected and click Next. 4  On the next screen, click the link for Make a Genius bar reservation. 5  Log in with your Apple ID on the next screen to proceed.
What to expect at the Genius Bar. Before you come in for your reservation, be sure to back up the data on the device that needs help. When you get to the Apple Store, ask a team member to check you in to the Genius Bar, or check in using the Apple Store app on your iPhone. During your session, your Genius will gather information about your system and answer your questions.
What to expect at the Genius Bar. Before you come in for your reservation, be sure to back up the data on the device that needs help. When you get to the Apple Store, ask a team member to check you in to the Genius Bar, or check in using the Apple Store app on your iPhone. During your session, your Genius will gather information about your system and answer your questions. Meet a Genius at the Apple Store. Geniuses have extensive knowledge of our products, and they work with you face to face to provide technical support and troubleshoot hardware problems. Some repairs can even be completed right on the spot.
How to schedule a Genius Bar appointment from your iPhone or iPad with the Apple Store app. The easiest way to make a Genius Bar appointment on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch is with the Apple Store app. It's available for free in the App Store and lets you not only make appointments, but shop for Apple gear. If you don't have it already, grab it from the follow link. 1  Apple Store app-Free-Download Now. 1 Click the link that says Make a Genius Bar reservation. 2  Select your state in the drop down menu and then choose a store. 3  Make sure Genius Bar is selected and click Next. 4  On the next screen, click the link for Make a Genius bar reservation. 5  Log in with your Apple ID on the next screen to proceed.
If you have an iOS device (iPhone, iPod touch or iPad), you can make an appointment from the Apple Store app. NOTE: If you are using the Apple Store for iPad app, see here instead: Apple Store App for iPad: Making a Genius Bar Reservation. The below instructions are for the iPhone/iPod touch version. If you have scheduled a Genius Bar appointment at an Apple Store, you may be wondering how to prepare or what you need to bring. Appointments are completely free. The on ly cost would be if a device or part needs to be replaced, in which case they would ask you first.
On the Find a Store screen, you can also tap the Maps icon in the upper right to see all of the nearby stores on a map in the Maps app. After selecting Genius Bar, it will ask you which product you want to make an appointment for: A Mac, iPhone, iPod, or iPad. After you select which product, you will be taken to a screen where you can choose an available time for your appointment (in increments of 15 minutes). 3. 4. If you have scheduled a Genius Bar appointment at an Apple Store, you may be wondering how to prepare or what you need to bring. Appointments are completely free. The on ly cost would be if a device or part needs to be replaced, in which case they would ask you first.
That appears to be the only way now-they seem to be encouraging other types of support first. Level 7 (25,715 points). If you have an IOS device and the Apple Store app (not the App Store app) you can use it to make a Genius Bar appt without any of the new extra steps. Select Stores, find your store, select it and then Genius Bar and you will be shown the appts available. regards. http://www.apple.com/retail/geniusbar/. Then on get help now. This will result in a page listing your products; choose your product and follow the prompts from there. It will wind up with a page offering various choices such as a chat session, calling them, Apple calling you, and/or the Genius Bar.
Description. Appointments allows you to place all of your meetings on top of an efficient calendar. Simply set the appointment and it will automatically appear on your calendar. Choose a date and you will be able to see all of your scheduled appointments for that date. All the appointments will appear on the righthand side of the app. 