I probably keep them too long. After I open them I remove them from the container, put them in an air tight container with a piece of paper towel to absorb the moisure and put them back until they start either turning color or loose their firmness. This can be from a few days to a few weeks. 
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 11 people found this useful. Up to 6 weeks. You can also freeze this product and it will keep for over a year.   Hi-I only accessed this question as I h … ave just tried some butter I had in the fridge. It is now Sunday 14th June 2009. It was Tesco Value unsalted butter which statesDisplay until 12:12:2008 Best Before 19:12:2008
But if you want to keep mushrooms for more than a couple days, wrap them in paper towel, and put them in a perforated plastic bag. If you don’t have any perforated plastic bags, put them in a bowl on paper towel and cover the bowl with plastic wrap that you’ve punctured holes in. There are two ways to buy mushrooms: one is loose, in which case you put them in a paper bag at the store, and the second is in a container, which is usually a Styrofoam style container (sometimes cardboard) with plastic wrap over the top.
Tips. 1  To extend shelf life, refrigerate fresh mushrooms in a paper bag; do not wrap in plastic or store in airtight container, as this will speed spoilage. 
Remove the mushrooms from the plastic-wrap packaging. Check all of the mushrooms to be sure that the top of each mushroom is dry to the touch with no signs of slime or moisture. Throw away any mushrooms that withered due to drying out or are slimy and damp. Dispose of moldy or discolored mushrooms as well. 
The shelf life of mushrooms, like most other fresh vegetables may not have a sell by date, use by date, or best before date so you have to go with purchase date in most cases. Because of their relative variety, flavor, vitamins including Vitamin D, minerals including copper and versatility in cooking mushrooms are a popular vegetable choice which also contain protein. Yet since wild mushrooms can be very dangerous and even deadly, be sure to get them from a store or other reliable source.
How to store Mushrooms to extend their shelf life? To extend their shelf life it is best to store them whole and un-peeled in a sealed plastic bag in the fridge. For a longer term option, mushrooms may be frozen for 6-8 months, but they should be cooked first and placed in freezer safe containers. Because of their relative variety, flavor, vitamins including Vitamin D, minerals including copper and versatility in cooking mushrooms are a popular vegetable choice which also contain protein. Yet since wild mushrooms can be very dangerous and even deadly, be sure to get them from a store or other reliable source.
Nine to 10 Days From Packaging Date. According to Mountain View Mushrooms, fresh mushrooms can be stored at 34 to 40 degrees F for up to 10 days from the date of packaging. If purchasing store-bought mushrooms, the packaging date will be printed on the storage container or plastic wrap. Artem Kononenko/Demand Media
There is no clear consensus. The conservative answer is that mushrooms should be eaten within two days of purchase. However, some experts maintain mushrooms will keep for up to a week after purchase, particularly if stored in cool, dry, and dark places. Pre-slicing mushrooms can shorten their shelf life. Once sliced, mushrooms quickly oxidate. 