You're no good for me. We only bring each other tears and sorrow. But tonight, I'm gonna love you like there's no tomorrow. Tomorrow, I'm gonna leave here. I'm gonna let you go and walk away like every day I said I would. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
lovely day, lovely day, lovely day ... When the day that lies ahead of me. Seems impossible to face. When someone else instead of me. Always seems to know the way. Then I look at you. And the world's alright with me. Just one look at you. And I know it's gonna be. A lovely day.....
Guys,It's a dub/reggae song with a girl that sing murderer of my body,murderer of my body or murder and rob my body,murder and rob my body and that say gotta rich my medidation,gotta rich my meditation.Can someone help me? GKK. Hi guys, there is a song I have been obsessing over and cant place its name. Hi by anychance does anyone know what reggae album has like a gold or a yellow design cd cover..it has the 2 versions of shaggy it wasnt me on the track list....It was a 2 cd album set..It also came out in the 90's....really hard to find...please help......
I love it, I love it. I love the way you make me feel. I love it, the way I love you! Songwriters: STREETER, AMBER / MCCORMICK, MALCOLM / SAMUELS, HARMONY / SPARKS, JORDIN / RUSSELL, BRENDA / LAMBERT, AL. Ariana Grande The Way is a new single by the US singer-songwriter. The Way is a pop/R&B ballad featuring rapper Mac Miller.
Cheap Trick sang the song “I Want You To Want Me”. The song was featured on Cheap Trick’s 2nd album, In Color, which was released in 1977. In 1979, a live version of the song “I Want You To Want Me” hit #7 on the Billboard charts. The song was on the charts for 19 weeks. The name of the song is actually not “One Less Man”. The title is actually “One Less Bell To Answer”, and The Fifth Dimension sang the song. (Marilyn McCoo was the lead singer on the song “One Less Bell To Answer”. The song reached #2 on the Billboard charts, and it was later covered by Dionne Warwick
Lastet opp 24. aug. 2009. This is the original version of Lovely Day which i decided to upload because it was not on youtube already. Please do not complain of there not being a video, as it would probably be taken down by youtube anyway. This is purely audio along with the artwork of the album from which the song came from. When the day that lies ahead of me. Seems impossible to face. When someone else instead of me. Always seems to know the way. Then I look at you. And the world's alright with me. Just one look at you. And I know it's gonna be. A lovely day.....
It then continued into a beautiful reggae song, slightly dub like. There is another bit in the song later when the same robot voice re-appears for about the same amount of time. I'm sure the first couple of lines in the song had the word 'rasta' in them. I think it was: rasta warrior, or rasta soldier. Hi by anychance does anyone know what reggae album has like a gold or a yellow design cd cover..it has the 2 versions of shaggy it wasnt me on the track list....It was a 2 cd album set..It also came out in the 90's....really hard to find...please help......
Everyday  is a song written by Buddy Holly and Norman Petty, recorded by Buddy Holly and the Crickets on May 29, 1957 and released on September 20, 1957 as the B-side to  Peggy Sue . 
Every Night, Every Day is track #7 on the album Far From Home. It was written by Winwood, Steve/capaldi, Jim. Every night, every day, I keep feelin' the same old way. Every night, every day, I keep feelin' the same old way. Now then I've been thinkin' about it. You say that it's okay, it'll be all right, baby, hey, baby.