Turin, located on the Po River, is the capital of Piedmont and it has been the first capitol of Italy in 1861. Main attractions are the San Giovanni Cathedral which serves as home to the Holy Shroud and the Egyptian Museum. Torino, where the HQ of the FIAT is located, is the Italian centre of the automotive industry. This description page of Turin, in the Italian region of Piedmont, will guide you in planning your trip to Italy and help you find useful travel information about this Italian city.
Torino by night. Turin is the capital of the Piedmont region and is located in the northwest area of Italy. Torino, as the Italians call it, is a major industrial city that lies along the Po River. The Po stretches from Mount Monviso in the Alpie Cozie (Southwestern Alps) to the Adriatic Sea near Venice
Why Visit Turin: Turin, or Torino, is an interesting and often overlooked city in the Piedmont (Piemonte) region of Italy. Famous for the Shroud of Turin and Fiat auto plants, the city has a lot more to offer. Turin Location and Transportation: Turin is in the northwest of Italy in the Piemonte region between the Po River and the foothills of the Alps-see Piemonte Map. Turin is served by a small airport, Citta di Torino-Sandro Pertini, with flights to and from Europe
Turin [1] (Italian: Torino), a large city of about one million inhabitants, is set in the Piedmont region of northwestern Italy, a one-hour drive from the French border and slightly more than that from the Mediterranean sea. 
Piedmont. Piedmont (pēdˈmŏnt) [ key ], Ital. Piemonte, region (1991 pop. 4,302,565), 9,807 sq mi (25,400 sq km), NW Italy, bordering on France in the west and on Switzerland in the north. Turin is the capital of the region, which is one of the richest in Italy. Piedmont is divided into the provinces of Alessandria, Asti, Cuneo, Novara, Turin, and Vercelli (named for their capitals). The mostly mountainous and hilly region has the Alps in the north and west and the Apennines in the south.
; Piedmontese: Turin, pronounced [tyˈɾiŋ] ; Lombard: Tueri; Türì: Latin Augusta) taurinorum is a city and an important business and cultural centre in Northern, italy capital of The piedmont, region located mainly on the left bank of The Po, river in front Of Susa valley and surrounded by the Western alpine. arch Turin, like the rest of Piedmont, was annexed by the French Empire in 1802. The city thus became the seat of the prefecture of Po pô department until the fall Of napoleon in, 1814 when The kingdom Of-Piedmont sardinia was restored With turin as its. capital
Turin (Italian Torino, Latin Augusta Taurinorum, Piedmont Tuerin) türin is a city in Northwest, italy capital of the province Of turin and the region Of. Piedmont turin has 907 563 inhabitants in the metropolitan area and about.1 7 million inhabitants in the (agglomeration) 2006 and.2 2 million in the metropolitan. area Turin (Italian Torino, Latin Augusta Taurinorum, Piedmont Tuerin) türin is a city in Northwest, italy capital of the province Of turin and the region Of. piedmont