The City of Washington w … as originally a separate municipality within the federal territory until an act of Congress in 1871 established a single, unified municipal government for the whole District. It is for this reason that the city, while legally named the District of Columbia, is known as Washington, DC. The city has only a non-voting delegate to the US Congress, and its citizens did not have the right to vote in Presidential elections until 1961. It is for this reason that the city, while legally named the District of Columbia, is known as Washington, D.C. (Wikipedia). For the source and more detailed information concerning your request, click on the related links section (Wikipedia) indicated directly below this answer section.
This federal district was first called the City of Washington (in honor of George Washington) and the city around it was called the Territory of Columbia (in honor of Christopher Columbus). An act of Congress in 1871 effectively merged the City and the Territory into a single entity called the District of Columbia. Since that time the nation’s capital has been referred to as Washington, DC, the District of Columbia, Washington, the District, and DC. http://dc.about.com/od/touristattraction...
Columbia (with a u) is a word that historically referred to America. The word comes from Columbus. The District of Columbia is not the only American thing named Columbia. There is Columbia University in New York, the Columbia River, Columbia Records, and a few Columbia Counties scattered throughout the country. The country in South America is named Colombia.' It is named after Christopher Columbus. The District of Columbia is spelled with an u not an o and has nothing at all to do with the country of Colombia. the district of Columbia is also
Washington DC is the capital city of the United States of America (USA). D.C. stands for the District of Columbia which is the federal district containing the city of Washington. The city is named for George Washington, military leader of the American Revolution and the first President of the United States. The District of Columbia and the city of Washington are coextensive and are governed by a single municipal government, so for most practical purposes they are considered to be the same entity. It is known locally as the District or simply D.C. Historically, it was called the Federal City.
Columbia is in honor of Christopher Columbus as is Columbus, Ohio. Washington DC is a city but it is not part of any state. That is why it is called a district. The government specifically did not want to have the capital part of any state. The city and the district are located on the banks of the Potomac River and bordered by the states of Virginia (to the west) and Maryland (to the north, east and south). [... ] The District of Columbia, founded on July 16, 1790, is a federal district as specified by the United States Constitution. [...
The District of Columbia. The District of Columbia is a federal district that takes up exactly same area that the city of Washington is in. Therefore we could refer to either DC or Washington and be referring to the same place. Because the city of Washington is in the federal District of Columbia as opposed to any state, and to differentiate it from Washington state. The city and district are now territorially identical.
The area where D.C. stands was once part of two states, namely Maryland and Virginia. Under the U.S. Constitution, the District of Columbia was created to house the capital district of the U.S. government back in 1790. This particular area is referred to as the District of Columbia because of its former name “Territory of Columbia.” The old term was a reference to “Columbia” which is considered a poetic term or female reference for the U.S. at that particular point in history.
The District of Columbia is the capital of the United States. The area is located between Virginia and Maryland, along the Potomac River, and the District was named afte … r Christopher Columbus. It is identical to the City of Washington, named to honor the first President. In 1790, Congress selected the site for the new capital along the Potomac. It is for this reason that the city, while legally named the District of Columbia, is known as Washington, D.C. (Wikipedia). For the source and more detailed information concerning your request, click on the related links section (Wikipedia) indicated directly below this answer section.
Washington, D.C. , formally the District of Columbia and commonly referred to as  Washington ,  the District , or simply  D.C. , is the capital of the United States. The states of Maryland and Virginia each donated land to form the federal district, which included the pre-existing settlements of Georgetown and Alexandria. Named in honor of George Washington, the City of Washington was founded in 1791 to serve as the new national capital.
The District of Columbia is called so just because it is not a state, and is basically a federal district which takes up equal area as Washington is in. Thus, it can either be referred to as DC or can be called as Washington as per the convenience. 