Acute pharyngitis is a painful inflammation of the throat (pharynx). Most often caused by a viral infection, it can also be caused by bacteria such as streptococci, M. pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhea, chlamydia, and corynebacterium haemolyticus. Viral pharyngitis is often associated with the common cold or influenza. Strep throat is a painful infection of the throat caused by the group A Streptococcus bacteria. Diptheria is a rare, but serious cause of bacterial pharyngitis. Pharyngitis can also be caused by swallowing substances that burn, irritate, or scratch the lining of the throat.
Pharngitis is medical term for a sore throat. Pharyngitis is an inflammation of the pharynx (throat) that results in throat discomfort, pain and/or throat scratchiness; in some individuals it may cause painful swallowing. Sore throat is usually caused by a viral infection and less commonly, a bacterial infection usually by group A streptococci (strep throat). 
For other uses, see Sore throat (disambiguation) . A sore throat (or throat pain) is pain or irritation of the throat. A common physical symptom, it is usually caused by acute pharyngitis (inflammation of the throat), although it can also appear as a result of trauma, diphtheria, or other conditions. 
Not to be confused with laryngitis. Pharyngitis /faerɨnˈdʒaɪtɨs/ færɨnˈdʒaɪtɨs is the inflammation of the, pharynx a region in the back of the. Throat in most cases it is quite, painful and it is the most common cause of a sore. throat Pharyngitis can be accompanied by a cough or fever, especially if caused by a systemic infection. Most acute cases are caused by viral infections (40–80%), with the remainder caused by bacterial infections, fungal infections, or irritants such as pollutants or chemical substances.
Pharyngitis is inflammation of the pharynx—the back of the throat. This can cause a sore throat, as well as scratchiness in the throat and difficulty swallowing. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, pharyngitis is one of the most common reasons for doctor visits (UMM, 2011). More cases of pharyngitis occur during the colder months of the year.
Pharyngitis is a type of inflammation, most commonly caused by an upper respiratory tract infection. It may be classified as acute or chronic. An acute pharyngitis may be catarrhal, purulent or ulcerative, depending on the virulence of the causative agent and the immune capacity of the affected individual. Pharyngitis can be accompanied by a cough or fever, especially if caused by a systemic infection. Most acute cases are caused by viral infections (40–80%), with the remainder caused by bacterial infections, fungal infections, or irritants such as pollutants or chemical substances.
Background. Viral pharyngitis can be caused by numerous viruses. Acute pharyngitis is an inflammatory syndrome of the pharynx and/or tonsils caused by several different groups of microorganisms. Pharyngitis can be part of a generalized upper respiratory tract infection or a specific infection localized in the pharynx
Pharyngitis is an inflammation of the throat (also known as the pharynx) often caused by a bacterial or viral infection. The main symptom is a sore throat; other symptoms may include fever, cough, congestion, body aches, and swollen lymph nodes in the neck. Theses symptoms can range from mild to severe. While many germs can cause pharyngitis, including bacteria (such as group A Streptococcus, which causes strep throat) and many types of viruses, pharyngitis can also result from allergies, voice strain, and gastric reflux, a condition in which stomach acids flow up into the throat.
inflammation or infection of the pharynx, usually causing a sore throat. Some causes of pharyngitis are diphtheria, herpes simplex virus, infectious mononucleosis, and streptococcal infection. Acute pharyngitis is a sudden, severe inflammation of the pharynx. 