F03Y 04 Deliver Reliable Customer Service 5 © SQA 2008 Unit F03Y 04 (279) Deliver Reliable Customer Service You need to know and understand Evidence of knowledge and understanding should be collected during observation of performance in the workplace.
Unit 19 – Organise the delivery of reliable customer service 2 OCR Levels 2 and 3 Business Skills qualifications their customers. 3. Use recording systems to maintain reliable customer service 3.1 Record and store customer service information accurately following organisational guidelines.
Performance Criteria. Plan and organise the delivery of reliable customer service. 1  plan, prepare and organise everything you need to deliver services or products to different types of customers. 2  organise what you do to ensure that you are consistently able to give prompt attention to your
When you organise the delivery of reliable customer service you must consistently: 1. Plan, Prepare and organise everything you need to deliver services or products to different types of customers Organise what you do to ensure you are consistently able to give prompt attention to your customers 2.
Unit F03Y 04 (279) Deliver Reliable Customer Service Unit Summary This Unit is all about how you deliver consistent and reliable service to customers. As well as being good with people, you need to work within your organisation’s service systems to meet and, wherever possible, exceed customer expectations.
F03Y 04 Deliver Reliable Customer Service 2 © SQA 2008 Unit F03Y 04 (279) Deliver Reliable Customer Service You must be able to Prepare to deal with your customers This means you: 1 (a) Keep your knowledge of your organisation’s services or products up-to-date.
4. Know and understand how to organise the delivery of reliable customer service. 4.1 Show that they know and understand the organisational procedures for unexpected situations and their role within them.
UR200B2 Deliver reliable customer service Unit Description UR200B2_v2 This unit is all about how you deliver consistent and reliable service to customers. As well as being good with people, you need to work with your organisation’s service systems to meet or exceed customer expectations.
CFACSB10 Organise the delivery of reliable customer service CFACSB10 Organise the delivery of reliable customer service 1 Overview This unit is part of the Customer Service Theme of Delivery.