A demonstration of the the Chipex car paint stone chip repair system on a BMW 5 series. Get Your Chipex Touch Up Paint Here: http://www.chipex.co.uk. BMW Touch Up Paint: http://www.chipex.co.uk/bmw-touch-up-... 1  Howto & Style. 
E-mail. Once the repair is flush to the rest of the paint, take the rubbing compound and polish the area with a clean, cotton cloth. Wash the area to clean off all the rubbing compound, rinse and dry. I would let the repair continue to cure for about a week before waxing your car. Any slight excess can be wet sanded down and then rubbed out. Most stone chips are probably on your hood leading edge. To prevent runs, you'll find lifting the hood, until the chip is horizontal to the ground, will keep the paint centered while drying.
1 The touch up paint my car dealership sells me is the best way to fix scratches and chips. 2  Not true. 3  The biggest problem is with the applicator: it’s just too large! 4  Most chips and scratches are best touched up with a fine-tipped artist’s brush…the kind used by hobbyists who assemble model cars and airplanes. We repair a lot of scratches and rock chips on our customers cars using factory-paint-matching paint and a variety of brushes, squeegees, scratch fillers, and excess paint removers. Most of the general public isn’t aware that paint chip and scratch repair is a subspecialty of the automotive business.
Instructions. Clean your car well on the outside by washing and drying it before starting the repair. While washing the car, get a good idea where the chips that need to be fixed are. Then dry the car with lint-free towels. Take the matching spray paint and shake the can well. Take your toothpick and dab it into the car paint, which is in the lid. Fill the chip with the matching paint until the chip is covered. Do this as evenly as possible and without overfilling. Fill each chip just like this and allow plenty of time for it to dry before moving your car.
There are three options that you have to choose from. 1  You can just let it be. 2  You can have the auto body shop repaint your car for $500+ a panel. 3  You can have a professional fill in your chips using a rock chip paint touch up system. 1 Some people don’t mind having the rock chips on their hood. 2  Be careful though. 3  If you don’t seal up the chips on your car there is a high risk that rust will start to form and then your paint will start to flake off. 4
Fix small chips. This is a typical rock chip that you can fix with this procedure. In fact, even if the chip is about one-fourth the size of a dime, you can still repair it. 
One of the most annoying things about car ownership has to be getting chips on your cars paint work. We shall look at this problem and see how to perform an invisible repair to restore the paint to its former glory. The more loose stones there are on the road the more likely it is to pick up a stone chip. Fast roads and higher speeds mean deeper and bigger stone chips. Lots of stone chips is also a sign that you drive too close to the car in front! The more miles you clock up the worse it gets. Although cars can have a protective film applied to resist stone chips most people are left with pitted bonnets that look really unsightly and can easily start to rust. 
1 Be careful though. 2  If you don’t seal up the chips on your car there is a high risk that rust will start to form and then your paint will start to flake off. 3  You can have the auto body shop repaint your car for $500+ a panel. 4  If you want it perfect, this may be the way to go. 1 Some people don’t mind having the rock chips on their hood. 2  Be careful though. 3  If you don’t seal up the chips on your car there is a high risk that rust will start to form and then your paint will start to flake off. 4
Effective paint chip repair keeps your car looking like new and protects it from rust and other long-term damage. Easier to use than traditional touch-up paint or paint pens, you'll get professional results and a guaranteed exact OEM match to your car's finish. My car isn't in the search list. Dr. ColorChip's proprietary three-step paint chip repair process is the easiest and most effective way to touch-up minor automotive paint chips and road rash.